OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Statement of the Case.

263 U. S.

BUTTERS ET AL. v. CITY OF OAKLAND ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA IN AND FOR THE FIRST APPELLATE DISTRICT.

No. 16.

Submitted October 3, 1923.-Decided November 12, 1923.

1. Where a state statute authorizes municipal authorities to define
the district to be benefited by a street improvement and to assess

the cost of the improvement upon the property within the district in proportion to benefits, their action in establishing the district and in fixing the assessments on included property, after due
hearing of the owners as required by the statute, when not arbitrary
or fraudulent, cannot be reviewed under the Fourteenth Amendment upon the ground that other property benefited by the improvement was not included and taxed. P. 164.
2. The fact that a city council, in revising public improvement assessments upon appeal, reduced those laid on certain areas and
made up the amount of the reduction by distributing it over and
assessing it upon the entire district, does not in itself establish that
an assessment thus increased was, to the extent of the increase, arbitrary and not according to benefits. P. 165.
3. The California Improvement Act of 1911, as construed by the
state Supreme Court, while authorizing collection of street improvement taxes, does not interfere with the taxpayer's right to
compensation for damages caused to his abutting property by a
change of grade, or his right to enjoin the doing of the work until
such damages have been ascertained and paid. P. 166.
4. The theoretical possibility that improvement taxes laid in proportion to estimated benefits- may be greater than the benefits to be
actually received by land so taxed, is not enough to overturn this
established method of assessment. -P. 166.
53 Cal. App. 294, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the District Court of Appeal of
California, which affirmed a judgment against the present
,plaintiffs in error in their suit to. enjoin the defendants
from making or recording an assessment of street im-.
provement taxes against the plaintiffs' properties.
Mr. C. Irving Wright and-Mr. J. E. Manders for plaintiffs in error. Mr. F. E. Boland was also on the brief.

BUTTERS v. OAKLAND.
162

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. James A. Johnson for defendants in error. Mr.
George M. Shaw and Mr. R. M. F. Soto were also on the
brief.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Plaintiffs in error brought suit to restrain the defendants
from making or recording an assessment of improvement
taxes against plaintiffs' properties, made under the provisions of the Improvement Act of 1911, California
Statutes, 1911, pp. 730-769. The improvement consists
of certain street grading in the City of Oakland, together
with various structures,*such as culverts, etc., in connection therewith.
The authority to order such improvements is vested by
the statute in the City Council, which, before making
an order, must pass a resolution of intention to do so,
setting forth specified details. In a case such as is here
presented, the Council may delimit the district to be benefited and make the expense chargeable upon it. Public
notide of the contemplated improvement is to be given,
and, within stated times thereafter, the owner of any assessable property may protest in writing against either
the proposed work or the extent of the district to be
assessed, or both. Such protest must be heard and passed
upon by the Council and "its decision shall be final'and
conclusive." If the protest be denied, the Council may
order the proposed improvement. Provision is made for
inviting bids and awarding and making contracts therefor and for reviewing the proceedings at the instance of
any interested person. Where the cost of the improvement is to be assessed against a district, diagrams of the
property benefited must be made, showing each separate
lot, piece or parcel of land, its area, relative location, etc.
Thereupon the Superintendent of Streets must estimate
the benefit to be received by each of such parcels of land

164

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

"in proportion to the estimated benefits to be received by
each," and thereafter an assessment to cover the same- is
made. Any person interested may appeal to the City
Council in respect of these and prior proceedings, including the question of the correctness or legality of the assessment. The decision of .the City Council thereon is
made final and conclusive as to all persons entitled .to
appeal.
The trial court found* the issues of fact and of law
against plaintiffs and entered judgment accordingly, which
was affirmed by the Court of Appeal for the First Appellate District, 53 Cal. App. 294. A petition to have the
cause heard in the state Supreme Court was denied, ard
it comes here by writ of error to the District Court of Appeal. The federal question raised in the court below and
presented here is that the state statute and the assessment
against plaintiffs' properties offend against the Federal
Constitution in that the one arbitrarily authorizes and
the other arbitrarily imposes a tax upon plaintiffs' properties for a local improvement in excess of the benefits received and without providing for resulting damages, dnd
thereby they are deprived of their property without due
process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Several grounds are urged in support of this contention.
which we consider'in their order.
1. Plaintiffs in error contend that the assessment was
not in proportion to the benefits because certain property,
also benefited by the improvement, was omitted from the
district. ' Without reviewing the circumstances said to
establish this contention, it is enough to say that the
municipal authorities were empowered to establish the
district benefited and to assess the tax in proportion to the
benefits. Ample provision is made for a hearing and a
hearing was accorded. There is nothing to justify the
conclusion that the authorities acted arbitrarily or

BUTTERS v. OAKLAND.
162

Opinion of the Court.

fraudulently. The assessment was reviewed upon appeal by the City Council, and that body, after a hearing, altered it in some particulars, and caused a new warrant of assessment to be issued. Its action, under the
statute, was final and conclusive and is not open to attack in this proceeding. Fallbrook IrrigationDistrict v.
Bradley, 164 U. S. 112, 167-170, 175; Hibben v. Smith,
191 U. S. 310, 321-323; Jellifi v. Newark, 48 N. J. L. 101,
109; Embree v. Kansas City, &c. Road District, 240 U. S.
242, 247-249.
2. Upon review by the City Council deductions were
made from the amounts assessed upon certain areas included within the district and a sum equal to the aggregate thereof was distributed over and assessed upon the
entire district, resulting in some increase in the assessment
upon plaintiffs' properties. It is urged that this establishes, to the extent of the increase, that the assessment
was arbitrary, and not according to benefits. The Supreme Court of California in another case, involving the
same assessment, has held otherwise. Rockridge Place
Co. v. City Council, 178 Cal. 58, 62-63. The whole
matter seems to have been fully heard and carefully considered by the City Council and its adjustmentfupon the
basis that the assessment upon sbme property within the
district was too high and that upon the remainder too low
cannot be upset merely because the aggregate amount
deducted from the one coincides with that applied upon
the other, since the Council, after a full hearing, expressly
found that the assessment as finally made was in accordance with the benefits. It is impossible for us to say that
the property assessed did not receive an additional benefit
to the extent of the arfaount thus proportionately distributed. The determination of the Council is so largely a
matter of opinion, that, in the absence of convincing
evidence of error it will notbe disturbed. 'See Jelliff v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

Newark, supra; Walker v. City of Aurora, 140 Il1. 402,
411; Sanitary District v. Joliet, 189 Ill. 270,,272; State,
Pudney, pros., v. Village of Passaic,37 N. J. L. 65, 67-68.
3. Plaintiffs insist that the order directing the improvement in question is invalid because no provision is made
for the ascertainment and adjustment of damages occasioned to abutting owners by a change of grade. As construed by the state Supreme Court the statute simply
authorizes the collection of the assessment, but does not
interfere with the right of a taxpayer whose property may
be injured thereby to receive compensation or to enjoin
the doing of the work until it is ascertained and paid. 53
Cal. App. 299; Wilcox v. Engebretsen, 160 Cal. 288, 298299. We must accept this construction. Two of the
plaintiffs, in fact, availed themselves of this remedy and
recovered damages against the City.
4. The statute provides that the expense of the work
may be chargeable upon the district which the City
Council declares to be benefited by the improvement, and
that such cost shall be assessed upon the several lots in
the district "in proportion to the estimated benefits to be
received by each "; and it is urged by plaintiffs that the
cost may exceed the benefits, in which event the proportionate assessment of the estimated benefits may, in fact,
be greater than the actual benefits received. We are not
impressed with this contention. It is not unreasonable
to assume that ordinarily the cost of. street grading and
paving, within municipalities such as this statute deals
with, will not exceed the benefits which the adjoining land
owners will receive, and it is neither alleged nor proven
that it has in fact done so in the present case. The
method of assessment provided for is an old and familiar
one and embodies a principle too well established to be
overturned by the suggestion of. a theoretical possibility
that there may not be an exact and mathematical relation
between cost and benefit in particular instances. See

MUTUAL INS. CO. v. HURNI CO.
62

Argument for Petitioner.

Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Barber, 197 U. S. 430,
433-434; Martin v. District of Columbia, 205 U. S. 135,
138-140.
Affirmed.
LUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF NEW
YORK v. HURNI PACKING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 66.

Argued October 11, 192.-Decided November 12, 1923.

1. In case of ambiguity in a life insurance policy, that construction
is to be adopted which is most favorable to the insured. P. 174.
2. The wora "date," as applied to a written instrument, signifies
primarily the time specified therein. P. 174.
3. Where a life insurance policy declared that it should be incontestable, except for nonpayment of premiums, provided two years
should have elapsed "from its date of issue," held, that the
date intended was the one specified in the policy, although this
(by agreement of the partids) was earlier than the dates of actual
execution and delivery. P. 175.
4. A provision of a life insurance policy that .it shall be incontestable
after a specified period from its date of issue inures to the beneficiary of the policy, and applies where the period elapses after
the death of the insured. P. 176.
280 Fed. 18, affirmed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, which affirmed a judgment of the District Court
for the plaintiff, the present respondent, in an action to
recover the amount of a life insurance jolicy.
Mr. James M. Beck, with whom Mr. Frederick L. Allen,
Mr. Ralph L. Read, and Mr. Guy T. Struble were on
the brief, for petitioner.
I. The policy was void for fraud.
II. The two-year contestable period commenced to run
either on September 7; 1915, when the policy was actually

