DIAZ v. PATTERSON.
Statement of the Case.

394

cases he cites are, therefore, not pertinent and need no
review.'
The motion to affirm must be granted.
So ordered.

DOMINGO DIAZ A., ET AL. v. PATTERSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 113. Argued November 28, 1923.--Decided December 10, 1923.
1. Owners of a registered title to land in the Canal Zone who are
in possession .and have maintained it for the period of extraordinary
prescription (Civ. Code, Art. 2531,) cannot be disseized and deprived of the property by the mere registration of what purports
to be a conveyance by a stranger to the title and subsequent lapse
of the ten year period of ordinary prescription. Civ. Code, Art.

2526. P. 400.
2. Reasons for fpllowing local decisions in Porto Rico, with its own
peculiar system of law, do not apply in the same degree to the
Panama Code in its present applicatioh to the Canal Zone. P: 402.
3. A decisidn of the Circuit Court of Apjeals reversing a decree of
the Court of the Canal Zone, held not res judicata on second
appeal to the former court or oa review of its final decision here.
P. 402.
4. Failure of the court to order notice to unknown claimants in a
suit over title to land will not avail a plaintiff who fails to establish any title or interest in himself. P. 402.
281 Fed. 394, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree recovered by the defendant, here
appellee, in a suit brought by the appellants in the,
United States Court for the Canal Zone to confirm their
title to a tract of land and, later, to the money for which
it was expropriated }Iy the United States.
'Hill v. W'allabe, 259 U. S. 44; Booth v. Illinois, 184 U. S. 425,
428; Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578; New York Life Insurance
Co. v. Dodge, 246 U. S. 357; Adams v. Tanner; 244.U. S. 590. Some
state .cases were cited.

400

4 OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

Mr. William H. Jackson for appellants.
Mr. -Edwin T. Merrick, with whom Mr. Ralph J.
Schwartz was on the briefs, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit by the heirs and representatives of Domingo Diaz against Patterson alleging their possession
of an estite known as Lo de Caceres in the'Canal Zone
and an adverse claim set up by Patterson. It prays that
the petitioners may be confirmed in their title and, by an
amendment, that all parties claiming any interest in the
land maybe summoned to appear in this case and that the
petitioners may be declared entitled to a fund deposited
in the registry 6f the Court, since this suit was begun,
upon'expropriation: of the land by'the United States. At
the first trial the petitioners -obtained a decree, but as
'material questions of fact had not been decided by the
Judgq the decree was reversed by the 'Circuit Court of
Appeals.' 262 Fed. 899. At the second trial there was a
careful- finding of facts and a decree for the defendant,
Patterson, which wars affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals. '281 Fed. 394. The petitioners appealed to
this Court and contend that they have been denied rights
conferred .upon them by the laws of the Canal Zone.
The'trial Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals have
folid hat the defendant has established recorded title
to. the iapd by an unbroken chain from the original grant
from the Spanish Crown in 1695, and also that he and his
predecessors hve held open, uninterrupted, and notorious -pomession of the same since 1790. These findings
we .shall-not disturb. The facts relied upon by the petitioners are that there was a sale in 1832, afterwards set
aside, purporting to convey the land; that the heir.of the
-grantee made a simulated sale to herself, and that this.

DIAZ v. PATTERSON.
399

Opinion of the Court.

fictitious title was recorded in 1895, although none o
the grantees ever was in possession at any time, or
brought any action until 1917, in which year the present
suit was begun. The ground of this extraordinary claim
is found in Art. 2526 of the Civil Code of Panama. "The
acquisitive prescription of real property or of real rights
constituted therein does not obtain against a recorded
title, except by virtue of another recorded title, nor shall
it begin to run but from the date of the record of the
second." The petitioners contend that the effect of this
Article is that themere recording of what purports to be
a conveyance by a stranger to the title who is and remains
out of possession, will give to the grantee a good title by
what is called the ordinary prescription of ten years,
Art. 2529, notwithstanding the requirement of regular
uninterrupted possession for that result in Art. 2528. It
is argued that constructive possession follows the record
and is enough, and it is supposed that this transaction
will defeat the previous registered possession and title by
ordinary prescription although by Art. 789-that possession does not cease until the record is cancelled, by consent, or by a transfer from the registered possessor, or.bya judicial decree.- It is supposed also to destroy a title
complete by' the extraordinary prescription of thirty
years to which "no title whatsoever is necessary " Art.

2531.
The effect attributed to Art. 2526 depends.in part upon
its operation after the Canal Zone was taken over by
the United States as the ten'years had not run when the"
Zone was transferred. It would be extreme to construe
the article as meaning something differen.t now from what
it would have .meant' before the transfer. Taking it
simply as a law of the United States we should see no.
reason for attributing to it the unjust operation contended for. "Itis not necessary- to consider what such a
registration might do in the way of interrupting a pre74308 -2---26

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

scription not yet complete, but we sep no sufficient
grounid for converting it into a disseizin when the. previous owners maintain their possession undisturbed under
a registered title in favor of which prescription already
has run. If we recur to the origin of the law we do not
believe that a different view would be taken in Panama.
But the considerations that have been urged for following
local decisions in places like Porto Rico having their own
peculiar system, do not apply in the same degree to a code
that in its present application governs a predominantly
American population and derives its force from Congress
and the President. PanamaR. R. Co. v. Bosse, 249 U. S.
41. The opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals on the
first appeal was not res judicata or conclusive here, as the
defendant seems to suppose, Remington v. Central Pacific R. R. Co., 198 U. S. 95, 99, 100; Messenger v. Anderson, 225 U. S. 436, 444; but we are of opinion that upon
the question before us it was right.
The 'petitioners attempt" to fortify their case by the
absence of an order calling upon the rest of the world to
come in and assert whatever claim anyone may have to
the fund in the registry of the Court. The purpose of
the suit was to remove Patterson's claim to the land. He
alone was made a party. 'It does not concern the petitioners after their failure to establish either possession or
title, whether some third person has a better title than
Patterson or what precautions the Court shall take before
giving him the fund that has taken the place of the land.
The record is at once defective and unduly prolix, and
this and other considerations perhaps might have war.ranted a dismissal of the appeal. But as both parties
desired a decision upon the merits and as the costs will
fol upoi the appellants we have thought it better to indiea.our opinIion that the reasons for the appeal are untenable and'that the decree should be affirmed.
Decree affirmed.

