UNITED STATES v. ILLINOIS CENT. R. R. 515
Syllabus.

510

We are not here concerned with taxation by a State.
The license tax cannot be said to conflict with § 2, Art. IV,
of the Constitution--" the citizens of each State shall be
entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the
several States." It applies only to nonresident fishermen; citizens of every State are treated alike. Only residents of the Territory are preferred. This is not wholly
arbitrary or unreasonable, and we find nothing in the Constitution which prohibits Congress from favoring those
who have acquired a local residence and upon whose
efforts the future development of the Territory must
largely depend. See Alaska Pacific Fisheries v. United
States, supra, and Alaska Fish Co. v. Smith, 255 U. S.
44,47, 48.

None of the points relied upon by appellant-is well
taken and the decree below must be
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES, INTERSTATE COMMERCE
COMMISSION, AND SWIFT LUMBER COMPANY
v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.

WYOMING RAILWAY COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES AND INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF WYOMING.

Nos. 40 and 38.

Argued November 12, 13, 1923.-Decided January
7, 1924.

1. When a joint through rate, maintained by a trunk line and an independent co-nneftion, though not unreasonable in itself, works

516

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

263 U. S.

undue prejudice to a shipper on the connection, in view of lower.
through rates for the same commodity from competing point& in
the same territory over the trunk line and its branches and' other
independent connections, both the, trunk line and the 'other participant in the high rate participate in the unjust discrimination
and may be required, by an order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission, to remove the discrimination. P. 520.
2. A discrimination in rates is not illegal under § 3 of the Interstate
Commerce Act unless it is unjust. P. 521.
3. The fact that preferential rates on traffic originating from some of
its connections are given by a carrier in order to retain and increase its business, may relieve it from any charge of favoritism
or malice, but-it will not justify a resulting unjust discrimination.
P. 523.
4. A difference in rates is not illegal unless shown not to be justified
by the cost and value of the respective services rendered and by
other transportation conditions. P. 524.
5. The fact that a rate is inherently reasonable and that a lower rate
from competing points is not shown to be unreasonably low, does
not establish that the discrimiiiation is just. Id.
6. A blanket rate from points on a trunk line was made applicable
from points on some only .of its connections through shrinkage or
absorptions allowed the connecting carriers by the trunk line, with
resulting prejudice to a shipper on another connection in the same
territory to which the privilege was not extended. Held, that the
fact that the preferential rate was for the purpose of developing
traffic on the main carrier's lines, or of securing competitive traffic,
did not establish the innocence of the discrimination'as a matter
of law, but was one only of several proven factors to be weighed
by the Interstate Commerce Cpmmission, and that the Commission's finding of unjust discrimination, based on a consideration of
them all, was cor.tlusive. Id.
7. Such a decision of the Commission is not an attempted substitution
of the Commission's policy of rate-making for that of the carrier.
P. 525.
8. An order of the Commission that a trunk line and short line, participating in a' joint rate,* desist from resulting discrimination,
but which may be satisfied by raising other, competing rates of
the trunk line, or by reducing its division of the joint rate complained of, is not subject to the objection that it will have a confiscatory effect upoir the short line. P. 526.

UNITED STATES v. ILLINOIS CENT. R. R.. 517
515

Opinion of the Court.

9. An agreement of a shipper to ship all his products over a railroad
is not a continuing assent to the rates in effect when it was made.
P. 527.
10. The power of the Commission to remove unjust discrimination
applies to a through rate consisting of acombination of locals as well
as to a joint through rate. Id.
No. 40, decree reversed.
No. 38, decree affirmed.

from decrees of the District Court in suits to
enjoin enforcement of orders of the Interstate Commerce
Commission. In the first case, there was aperpetual injunction; in the second, the bill was dismissed.
APPEALs

Mr. Blackburn Esterline,Assistant to the Solicitor General, for the United States.
Mr.. Robert V. Fletcher, with whom Mr. Walter S.
Horton was on the brief, for Illinois Central Railroad.
Company, appellee in No. 40.
Mr. Garner Wynn Green, with whom Mr. Marcellus
Green was on the brief, for Fernwood, Columbia & Gulf
Railroad Company, appellee in No. 40.
Mr. H. C. Lutkin, with whom Mr. W. T. Alden, Mr.
C. R. Latham, Mr. H. P. Young and Mr. Chas. Martin
were on the brief, for appellant in No. 38.
Mr. J. CarterFort,with whom Mr. P. J. Farrellwas on
the brief, for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. George J. Gulotta and Mr. L. Palmer filed a brief
oh behalf of Swift Lumber Company, appellant in No. 40,
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These cases, brought to et aside orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission, were argued together, and
present, in the aain, the same questions of law.

In

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

each, carriers who were found to have unjustly discriminated against shippers of lumber located on an independent short line, were ordered by the Commission to
cease and desist from charging them higher through
rates than were contemporaneously charged 'for like
services from other points within what is called blanket
territory.1 Each case was heard before three judges on
plaintiff's motion for a preliminary injunction, on defendant's motion to dismiss the bill for want of equity,
and on final hearing. In each the whole record before
the Commission was introduced. In No. 40 the federal
court for soithern Mississippi perpetually enjoined the
enforcement of the order issued by the Commission in
Swift Lumber Co. v. Fernwood & Gulf R1. R. Co., 61
I. C. C. 485. In No. 38 the federal court for Wyoming
dismissed the bill; thus sustaining the order issued by
the Commission in Pioneer Lumber Co. v. Director
General, 64 I. C. C. 485. Each case is here on direct
appeal under the Act of October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat.
208, 220.
The facts in No. 40 present most of the questions of
law requiring discussion. The so-called blanket territory,
which extends south from Jackson, Mississippi, to the
Gulf of Mexico (about 200 miles), and from the Mississippi River into Alabama, produces yellow pine lumber
in quantity. Through this territory, the Illinois Central'
Railroad extends from New Orleans to Jackson and
thence to the Ohio River crossings and leading lumber
markets of the North. Partly by its main line, partly,
also, by branches, and partly by connections with independent lines, it serves a large percentage of the lumber
mills in the territory. From all these points on the
'Compare St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. United States, 245
U. S. 136, 138, note 1. The carriers insist that the rates are not
properly called blanket rates, since they do not apply to all points

,ithin the territory; and that they should be termed group rates.

UNITED STATES v. ILLINOIS CENT. R. R. 519
515

Opinion of the Court.

Illinois Central main line, from all on its branches, from
all on three independent short lines which connect indirectly with it, and from all on the Mississippi Central
(a longer independent line which crosses it running
East and West) the carriers have established the same
through lumber rates to the northern markets, regardless
of the varying distances within. the blanket territory.
At Fernwood, Mississippi, a little south of its Monticello
branch, the Illinois Central connects with the Fernwood
& Gulf, an independent short line, on which the Swift
Lumber Company has a mill at Knoxo. The distance
from Knoxo to the junction is 27 miles. The joint
through rate from Knoxo via Fernwood to northern
points, voluntarily established by these carriers, is 2
cents per 100 pounds higher than the rate from Fernwood or any other point within the so-called blanket
territory on the Illinois Central main or branch lines
or on the connections mentioned above. The distance
to the northern markets from many of the points on
these lines is much greater than the distance from Knoxo,
which lies near. the centre of the so-called blanket
territory.
The Swift Lumber Company instituted proceedings
before the Commission against the Illinois Central, the
Fernwood & Gulf, and connecting carriers in which it
attacked the higher rates from Knoxo both as unreasonable, under § 1 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, and
as unjustly discriminatory, under § 3. The Commission
found that the rates from Knoxo were not unreasonable;
but that they subject the Lumber Company to undue
prejudice, in view of the lower rates so given competing
points within the so-called blanket territory. The order
directed the carriers ". according as they participate in
the transportation ... to cease and desist" from the discrimination found. All the carriers except the Illinois
Central and the Fernwood & Gulf acauiesced in the order.

520,

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

These two joined as plaintiffs in this suit, and urge on
several grounds that the order is void.
First. It is contended that the order exceeds the powers
of the Commission. The argument is that a carrier cannot be held to have participated in an unjust discrimination unless it is a party both to the rate by which a preference has been given to others and to the higher rate
which is given to the complainant; that the FArnwood &
Gulf did not participate in the discrimination complained
of, since it did not join" in the lower rates from other
points by which the Swift Lumber Company claims to be
prejudiced; and hence, that it cannot be required to cobperate with the Illinois Central in reducing rates from
Knoxo which have been found to be inherently reasonable.
That, on the other hand, the Illinois Central cannot be
held to have subjected the Swift Lumber Company to undue prejudice, since Knoxo is not on'its own lines and it
is not in a position to remove, by its own act, the discrimination complained of. Neither proposition is sound.
Proceedings, to remove unjust discrimination are aimed
directly only at the relation of rate. By joining with the
Illinois Central in establishing the prejudicial through
rate from Knoxo, the Fernwood & Gulf became as much a
party to the discrimination practiced, as if it had joined
also in-the lower rates to other points which are alleged to
be unduly preferential. Compare St. Louis Southwestern
Ry. Co. v. United States, 245 U. S. 136, 144. If such were
not the law, relief on the ground of discrimination could
never be had against preferential rates given by a great
railway system to, points on its own lines which result in
undue prejudice to shippers on short lines connecting with
it.2 Moreover, it is not true that the Illinois Central can2 The cases'relied upon by the carriers are not, inconsistent with this
conclusion. In Central R. R. Co. of New Jersey v. United States,
257 U. S. 247, the creosoting privilege was not a part of the joint

tariff. It was an item in the local tariff granted without the con-

UNITED STATES v. ILLINOIS CENT. R. R. 521
515

Opinion of the Court.

not remove the discrimination without the cobperation of

the Fernwood & Gulf. The order leaves the carriers free
to remove the discrimination either by making the Knoxo
rate as low as that from Fernwood, or by raising the rate
from Fernwood, or by giving both an intermediate rate.
American Express Co. v. Caldwell, 244 U. S. 617, 624. The
Illinois Central, acting alone, is in a position to raise the
rate from Fernwood. For its main line extends from there
to the Ohio River crossings, the rate-breaking point
Second. It is contended that the order of the Commission is unsustained by proof. That there is discrimination
against Knoxo is not denied. The rates charged from that
station are higher than those charged from competing
points within the so-called blanket territory for transportation of the same commodity, to the same market, for
the same or longer distances, mainly over the same route;
some of these competing points being located on the Illinois Central main line, some on its branch lines, and some
on independent lines. But mere discrimination does not
render a rate illegal under § 3. Only such rates as involve unjust discrimination are obnoxious to that section.
Manufacturers Ry. Co. v. United States, 246 U. S. 457,
481. There is no claim that any one of the evidential
facts found by the Commission and relied upon to show
currence of the carriers before the Commision; and the revenues
derived therefrom were not shared by them. In Philadelphia& Reading Ry. Co. v. United States, 240 U. S. 334, 340, it was pointed out
by the Court that: "Undue discrimination against itself or the
locality of its plant, as alleged by the cement company [the petitioner

before the Commission) was not found; the community declared to
be prejudiced by established conditions [Jersey City] had offered no
complaint and was not party to the proceedings." In Penn Refining
Co. v. Western New York & Pennsylvania R. R. Co, 208 'U. S. 208,
221-222, it was sought to hold one of the connecting carriers liable
for what the Court deemed to be the act of another.
3See St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co.. v. United States, 245 U. S.
136, 139, note 2.

522

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

that the discrimination was unjust, is without adequate
supporting evidence. The argument is that these facts,
even when supplemented by others appearing in the evidence, do not warrant the finding-of the ultimate fact,
that the higher rates from Knoxo are unduly prejudicial
to the Swift Lumber Company to the extent that they
exceed the blanket basis of rates from Fernwood (the
junction with the Illinois Central) and other points.
A carrier is entitled to initiate rates and, in this con-nection, to adopt such policy of rate-making as to it seems
wise. Interstate Comme 'ce Commission v. Chicago Great
Western Ry. Co., 209 U. S. 108, 118-119; Southern Pacific Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 219 U. S.
433; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Louisville &
Nashville R. R. Co., 227 U. S. 88, 92. In the exercise of
this right, the Illinois Central adopted the policy of establishing blanket, or group, rates on its main and branch
lines, by which the remoter lumber producing points were
granted, regardless of distances within the territory, the
same rates to northern markets as points located nearer.
In the exercise of the same right to initiate rates, the
Illinois Central adopted, also, the policy of granting to
connecting independent short lines, and to longer connecting carriers, an allowance (called shrinkage or absorption) by reason of which the Illinois Centrals division of the through rate on traffic originating on connections is reduced, by the amount of the allowance, to less
than its'rate for freight originating on its own line at
the junction point.4 The Illinois Central insists that its
general policy is not to grant to points on connecting
lines the blanket, or junction-point rate; and that it
departs from this policy only when it is compelled by
competition to do so. Where the through rate is the
'See The Tap Line Cases, 234 U. S. 1; Louisiana & Pine Bluff Ry.
Co. v. United States, 257 U. S. 114.

UNITED STATES v. ILLINOIS CENT. R. R. 523
515

Opinion of the-Court.

same from points on the connecting line as it is from the
junction, the share or division of the connecting carrier
consists wholly of this absorption. Where the through
rate from points on the connection is higher than the
junction-point rate, the connecting line receives as its
share an additional amount consisting of the difference
between these rates. This additional amount is called
the arbitrary or differential. Thus, the Fernwood & Gulf
receives a division of 4 cents per 100 pounds, consisting
of a 2-cent absorption and a 2-cent arbitrary.5
The Illinois Central argues that the discrimination in
charging a higher rate from Knoxo cannot be deemed unjust since the preferential rate to other points was
granted solely for the purpose of increasing its own business, and that the lower rate from Knoxo was denied
solely in order to' preserve its own revenues. In other
words, it granted the blanket rate to all points on its own
lines in order to develop business originating thereon. It
declined to grant the blanket rate (and to increase the
absorption) where the connecting line was wholly dependent upon it; and traffic originating thereon could be
secured in spite of the higher rate. It granted the
blanket rate to points on connecting lines (and increased
their absorptions) where this was deemed necessary in
order to secure traffic which might otherwise go to competitors.
The effort of' a carrier to obtain more business, and
to retain that which it had secured, proceeds from the
motive of self-interest which is recognized as legitimate;
and the fact that preferential rates were given only for
this purpose relieves the carrier from any charge of
'As a division of o1y 2 cents is ordinarily deemed inadequate
compensation by a connecting line, and as the trunk line is naturally
indisposed to submit to a larger shrinkage of its own division, the
through rate is commonly increased, by an arbitrary, if the traffic
will bear it.

52-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U.S.

favoritism or malice. But preferences may inflict undue prejudice though the carrier's motives in granting
them are honest. Interstate Commerce Commission v.
Chicago Great Western Ry. Co., 209 U. S. 108, 122.
Self-interest of the carrier may not override the requirement of equality in rates. It is true that the law does
not attempt to equalize opportunities among localities,
Interstate Commerce Commission v. Diffenbaugh, 222
U. S. 42, 46; and that the advantage which: comes to
a shipper merely as a result of the position of his plant
does not constitute an illegal preference. Ellis v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 237 U. S. 434, 445. To
bring a difference in rates within the prohibition of § 3,
it must be shown that the discrimination practiced is
unjust when measured by the translortation standard.
In other words, the difference in rates cannot be held illegal, unless it is shown that it is not justified by the
cost of the respective services, by their values, or by
other transportation conditions. But the mere fact that
the Knoxo rate is inherently reasonable, and that the
rate from competing points is not shown to be unreasonably low, does not establish that the discrimination is
just. Both rates may lie within the zone of reasonableness and yet result in undue prejudice. American
Express Co. v. Caldwell, 244 U. S. 617, 624.
Every factor urged by the carriers as justifying the
higher rate from Knoxo appears to have been considered
by the Commission. How much weight shall be given
to each must necessarily be left to it. The Commission
found, among other things, that the cost of the service
from Knoxo was not greater than the cost of the transportation from many other points which enjoy the lower
ratd; that the value of the service was the same; and
that other traffic conditions incident to shipment from
Kn,xo were so similar to those of shipments from other
poiids enjoying a lower rate that the 'prejudice to which

UNITED STATES v. ILLINOIS CENT. R. R. 525
515

Opinion of the Court.

the Swift Lumber Company had been subjected was
undue and unreasonable. The innocent character of the
discrimination practiced by the Illinois Central was not
established, as a matter of law, by showing that the
preferential rate was given to others for the purpose" of
developing traffic on the carrier's own lines or of securing competitive traffic. These were factors to be considered by the Commission; but they did rot preclude
a finding that the discrimination practiced is unjust.
Such was the law even before Transportation Act 1920.
Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 162 U. S. 197, 218, 220; Interstate Commerce
Commission v. Alabama Midland Ry., 168 U. S.144, 167,
175. In view of the policy and provisions of that statute,
the Commission may properly have concluded that the
carrier's desire to originate traffic on its own lines, or to
take traffic from a competitor, should not be given as
much weight in determining the justness of a discrimination against a locality as theretofore. For now, the interests of the individual carrier must yield in many respects to the public need, Railroad Commission of Wisconsin v. Chic go, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co., 257
U. S. 563; New England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184;
and the newly conferred power to gant relief against
rates unreasonably low may afford protection against
injurious rate-policies of a competitor, which were theretofore uncontrollable. The order of the Commission was
not an attempt to establish its own policy -of ratemaking0 See Southern Pacific Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 219 U. S. 433; Interstate Commerce
Commission v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 222 U. S. 541,
554. It merely expressed. the judgment of the Commission that existing .rates subjected shippers from Knoxo
'Compare Idaho v: DirectorGeneral, 66 I. C. C. 330,. with Idaho v.
Oregon Short Line, 83 I. C. C. 4.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

to undue prejudice. The judgment so exercised, being
supported by ample evidence, is conclusive.7
Third. The Fernwood & Gulf contends that the order
is obnoxious to the due process clause. The argument is
that even its present division of 4 cents per 100 pounds is
unremunerative; and that a smaller return would be confiscatory. To this argument there are several answers.
The order does-not require a reduction of the through rate.
It may be complied with by raising the rate frbm Fernwood and other points now being preferred. Moreover,
a reduction of the through rate would not necessarily result in decreasing the amount of the short line's division.
The Commission may, upon application, accord to the
Fernwood & Gulf the appropriate division.8 New England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184. There is no suggestion that the resulting reduction of the Illinois Central's
division would result in rendering the rate confiscatory
as to it.
'Interstate Commerce Commission v. Illinois Central R. R. Co., 215
U. S. 452, 470; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Delaware,Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co., 220 U.&S. 235, 251; United States v.
Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 235 U: S. 314, 320; Manufacturers
Ry. Co. v. United States, 246 U. S. 457, 481; Seaboard Air Line Ry.
Co. v. United States, 254 U. S. 57, 62.
In East Tennessee, Virginia & GeorgiaRy. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 181 U. S. 1, 11, 12, 23-26, and Interstate Commerce Commission v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 190 U. S.
273, the orders of the Commission were only prima facie evidence of
facts found by them, since they were entered before the Acts of June
29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, 589, 591, and the Act of June 18,
1910, 'c. 309, 36 Stat. 539, 551-554. See Procter & Gamble Co. v.
United States, 225 U. S. 282, 297-8; Kentucky & Indiana Bridge Co.
v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 37 Fed. 567, 613. Moreover,
those cases involved primarily a question arising under the Fourth
Section.
8
This was done, after removing the unjust discrimination, in
McGowan-FosheeLumber Co. v. Florida,Alabama & Gulf R. R. Co.,
43 I. C. C. 581; 51 I. C. C. 317.

UNITED STATES v. ILLINOIS CENT. R. R. 527
515

Opinion of the Court.

Fourth. The Fernwood & Gulf contends also that the
Swift Lumber Company is estopped from questioning the
rates applicable to it. The argument is that when it acquired the mill property from a predecessor of the short
line, an agreement provided that all lumber produced
should be shipped over the line; and that the 2-cent arbitrary was then known to be in effect, and was thereby
assented to for all time. The contract, which is silent
as to rates, is not susceptible of the construction urged.
We have, therefore, no occasion to consider whether such
an agreement would be valid and what its effect would
be. Compare Southern Pacific Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 219 U. S.433; United States v. Union
Stock Yard Co., 226 U. S. 286; O'Keefe v. United States,
240 U. S.294.
In No. 38, where the short line alone seeks to set aside
the Commission's order, this additional fact requires mention. The rate to the short line points is not a joint
rate, but a combination of the trunk line rate to the junction and the short line local rate. The distinction is
without legal significance in this connection. A through
route was established;' and the transportation is performed as the result of this arrangement between the
carriers, expressed or implied. Undue prejudice may be
inflicted as effectively by a through rate which is a combination of locals, as by a joint through rate. The poker
of the Commission to remove the unjust discrimination
exists in both classes of cases.
In'No.40, decree reversed.
In No. 38, decree affirmed.
'See St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. United States, 245 U. S.
136, 139, note 2.

