OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

263 U. S.

cases cited; Hebe Ca. v. Shaw, 248 U. S. 297, 303. It
may forbid indirect as well as direct ownership and control of agricultural land by ineligible aliens. The right
"to carry on trade" given by the treaty does not give
the privilege to acquire the stock above described.' To
read the treaty to permit ineligible aliens'to acquire such
stock would be inconsistent with the intention and purpose of the parties. We hold that the provision of § 3
above referred to does not conflict with the Fourteenth
Amendment or with the treaty.
The order appealed from is affirmed.
MR. JusncE MCREYNOLDS and MR. JusTICE BRANDEIS
think there is no justiciable question involved and that
the case should have been dismissed on that ground.

MIR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

STREET, SUING ON BEHALF OF HIMSELF AND
ALL OTHER SEAMEN ENGAGED IN INTERSTATE AND FOREIGN COMMERCE BY SEA,
ETC. v. SHIPOWNERS' ASSOCIATION OF THE
PACIFIC COAST ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No.- 156.

Argued November 15, 1923.-Decided November 26, 1928.

Plaintiff, alleging that defendants, as organizations of shipowners,
controlled all American vessels in the merchant service operating between the ports of the Pacific Coast- in the United States,
and between such ports and foreign ports, and collectively employel all seamen engaged in that commerce, attacked the regula-

tions adopted by defendants to govern such employments, upon the

STREET v. SHIPOWNERS' ASSN.
334

Argument for Appellant.

grounds that they delt -withmatters covered by the Shipping Commissioners Act and other acts of Congress amendatory and supplemental thereof, trenched-upon the exclusive power of Congress to
regulate interstate and foreign commerce, and violated the rights of
the plaintiff and other seamen by imposing undue restrictions upon
their opportunities to secure engagements, and interfered with
competition between them. Upon a motion to dismiss for failure
to state a cause of action and for lack of jurisdiction, the District
Court, expressing the opinion that the regulations did not violate
the act above mentioned or the Anti-Trust Act, and that the plaintiff had no standing to seek the relief prayed, entered a decree dismissing the bill.
Hdd,that the decree was not appealable directly to this Court under
§ 238, Jud. Code, but should be transferred to the Circuit Court of
Appeals under § 238a. P. 340.
Cause transferred to Circuit Court of Appeals.

APPEAI from a decree of the District Court which, on
motion, dismissed the bill in a suit to restrain the appellees from enforcing rules adopted by them to regulate the
employment of seamen.
Mr. H. W. Hutton for appellant.
I. The question of the jurisdiction of the lower court is
not here involved.
II. The appeal involves the construction and application of the Constitution of the United States.
Appellees own, operate or control all of the vessels engaged in interstate and foreign commerce on the Pacific
Coast; such vessels are one of the instrumentalities of
such commerce, t63 crews are the other, and combined
they are engaged in a public service. The Commerce
Clause gives Congress the exclusive right- to regulate the
method of selection, engagement, discharge and all other
things relating to the employment of seamen on such
vessels, and it has done so. The regulation of such matters
by any other authority is an unconstitutional burden on
the commerce itself. Appellant has been engaged as a seaman"in such commerce for years; appellees, however, have set up a con-

336

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Appellant.

263 U. S.

tMiuing refusal to employ him unless he conforms to the
rules and regulations they have prescribed. Applying for
employment under such circumstances would be an idle
act. ,
Appellees concede the right of an individual to a free
market for his labor, but contend that nothing short of'a
black-list system, maliciously used, or some other malicious combination is a violatipn of that right. The presence or absence of malice is, however, immaterial. - Goimpers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221 U. S. 418. Any interference with the right of a free market for labor or the
carrying on of a business is an invasion of a person's constitutiohal rights. Hilton v. Eckersley, 6 Ellis & Bl.47
CurKan.v. Galen, 152 N. Y. 33; Plant v. Woods, 170 Mass.
492; Mogul S. S. Co. v. McGregor, 23 Q. B. D. 598; Erdman v. Mitchell, 207 Pa. St. 79; Berry v. Donovan, 188
Mass. 353; Jones v. Leslie, 61 Wash., 107; People v. McFarlin,89,N. Y. S. 527; State v. Chapman, 69 N. J. L. 464;
flaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36; Sailor' Union v.
Hammond Lumber Co., 156 Fed. 454; Gleason v. Thaw,
185 Fed. 345; Ritchie v. People, 155 Ill. 98; Gillespie v.
People, 188111. 176.
The rules and regulations commence with
the initial
selection of the man -and continue as long as he is engaged
'in the business, and, in addition, he must take his turn for
employment.- The seaman's right. to engage freely ininterstate and foreign commerce is thus trespassed upon.
Buf the initial supplying of seamen is within the Commerde Clduse." Pattersonv. Bark Eudora, 190 U. S. -169.
Such. matters are within the exclusive domain of Congress,
and, if a State is iipotent to obstruct interstate commerce,
it cannot be'that any mere voluntary associati6n of indi,viduals ha.s a power which the State itself does not possess. Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S.303, 30M.'
III. Seamen are as much an instrument of commerce as
the vessels." 'If they are hindered in their efforts to en-

STREET v. SHIPOWNERS' ASSN.
Opinion of the Court.

334

gage in interstate and foreign commerce, they have a
complaint. United Mine Workers v. Coronado Co., 259
U. S. 344. Congress has legislated concerning the initial
selection of seamen and provided for their discharge and
a certificate thereof, Rev. Stats., §§ 4514, 4515, 4549-4551,
4553. Any other mode of performing the same matters
must be a restraint, burden and obstruction upon the freedom of those engaged in the business.
Mr. Warren Olney, Jr., with.whom Mr. W. F. Sullivan,
Mr. Edward J. McCutchen, Mr. J. M. Mannon, Jr., and
Mr. A. Crawford Greene were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JuSTIcE MOKENA

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The case is displayed by the complaint of appellant (he
was plaintiff in the court below) as follows: Ie is anative
born resident of California, and a seaman, and has been
engaged in interstate and foreign commerce by sea upon
vessels plying between ports on the Pacific coast, and between such ports and foreign ports, and is desirous of
continuing to work on such vessels.
He is associated by and through an unincorporated association of persons called the International Seamen's
Union of America, with over ten thousand other'persons
working as seamen, and he brings this action in his own
behalf and theirs, the acts of which he complains being a
matter of common and general interest to him and them.
The Shipowners' Association of the Pacific Coast -is a
California corporation having its place of business in the
City of San Francisco, it being a membership corporation
under the laws of the State, composed of every person,
firm, corporation or association owning or acting as
managing owner, of every vessel engaged in interstate and
foreign commerce documented in the different offices of
74308'-24-----22

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

the different Collectors of United States Customs on the
Pacific coast.
The Pacific American Steamship Association is a
voluntary unincorporated association of individuals and
corporations owning and operating vessels flying the
American flag and engaged in the merchant service between Pacific coast ports and foreign ports. It has its
place of business in San Francisco.
It and the Shipowners' Association control every yessel
engaged in the merchant service between such ports and
collectively employ all seamen .engaged in that service.
On the 1st day of January, 1922, the defendants combined to restrain the freedom of appellant and all other
seamen on the Pacific coast to engage in such service, and
to compel all seamen who desire to engage in such inter-state and foreign trade and dommerce each to register and
take a number and take his turn for employmefit according to such num-or, which frequently prevents seamen
of good qualifications and well-known from obtaining em*ployment at once, when, owing to their being well-known
among the masters and other officers of vessels and owing
to their good qualifications as seamen, they could and
would obtain work at once; and as a condition of such
employment the Associations also compel all seamen 'to
take and carry a book upon which is printed, among other
things, the followirg:
'"Employment Service Bureau.
Pacific American Steamship Association, Shipowners'
,Assn. of the -Pacific Coast, San Francisco, California.
!"Th s .certificate and discharge is issued under the
authority.6f the Pacific American Steamship Association
and the Shipowners' Association of the Pacific Coast, and
no person'wil be employed by these associations unless he
is registered- at their employment offices and has ml his
possession 'this: Certificate and Discharge.

STREET v. SHIPOWNERS' ASSN.
334

, Opinion of the Court.

"The lawful holder of this certificate will deliver it to
the master of the vessel when he signs articles of Agreement, and the master will retain the same in his possession until the seaman is discharged or has left the employment.
"To Seamen:
"When you receive this book you will be given a registered number which will be placed in the back of this
book. When you leave your ship you must report to
the Employment Service Bureau and get a new registered number. This registration number is given you
when you apply for a job and has nothing to do with the
number printed on the book. A fee will be charged for
this book sufficient to cover the cost of the same."
In addition to the foregoing there is required to be
written therein certain particulars of identification and
the total years of the seaman's experience. His photograph is alsorequired to be attached to the book.
The said matters are regulations of commerce among
the several States and with f6reign nations, in violation of
subdivision 3 of § 8, of Article I, of the Constitution of
the United States, and have been fully provided for
by the Congress of the United States in the Act of June
7, 1872, c. 322, 17 Stat. 262, commonly known as the
Shipping Commissioners Act, and the various acts of
Congress amendatory and. supplemental thereto, in so far
as it is necessary to such commerce that they should
be provided for.
The .regulations are humiliating to all seamen and the
best seamen refuse to abide by them and are leaving the
seafaring calling. Appellant" refuses to engage in such
commerce thereunder and is suffering loss and damage because he cannot obtain employment without obeying
them. The Associations threaten to and will continue to
enforce the regulations unless restrained. The taking of
turns in employment by seamen or being employed ac-

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

cording to number is destructive of competition among
those who wish to engage as seamen, and the regulations
trench upon the exclusive right of the Congress of the
United States to make such regulations.
Neither appellant nor any other seaman has an adequate remedy at law and an injunction is prayed against
the enforcement of the regulations.
The appellee Associations each fied a motion to dis
miss, which expressed in various '.ays the insufficiency of
the complaint to. constitute a cause of action, and also
that the court had no jurisdiction to hear and determine
the suit.
The motions were granted. The court expressed the
opinion that the defeildants' regulations did not violate
the Shipping Commissioners Act (§ 4501, et seq. Rev.
Stats.), nor the Anti-Trust Law, and held besides that
appellant "is not shown to have any standing entitling
him to seek in court the general relief for which he
prays6 " And further said, " He is not in a position to
vindicate general governmental policies, nor is he 'the
agency to establish the public welfare.'"
A decree was entered dismissing the complaint, to review which this appeal was obtained, and is prosecuted.
The assignment of errors attacks the decree with detail
bf particulars, affirming the sufficiency of the complaint
-iAnd the.grounds of relief which it expresses.
This appeal is direct from the District Court
and we
encounter at the outset the question of our jurisdiction
which is presented by a motion to dismiss the appeal. According to § 238 of the Judicial Code, appeal or error may
be prosecuted from the District Court when their jurisdiction is in issue; in prize cases; in any case that involves the construction or application of the. Constitution
of the United States; in any case in which the constitutionality of any law of the United States, or the validity
or construction of -any treaty is drawn in question; in

CLALLAM COUNTY v. UNITED STATES.
334

341

Syllabus.

any case in which the constitution or law of a State is
claimed to be in contravention of the Constitution of the
United States.
It is manifest that the present case falls within none of
the enumerated cases whether the regulations of the
Associations be regarded as an exercise of the power which,
it is contended, Congress alone possesses; or which has
been conferred upon the Shipping Commission, or be regarded as violations of the Anti-Trust Law.
If, however, appellant received a justiciable injury from
the regulations which the judgment of the District Court
did not recognize, review of that action must be through
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit and,
therefore, in compliance with § 238(a) of the Judicial
Code 1 (42 Stat. 837), the case must be transferred to that
court.
So ordered.
CLALLAM COUNTY, WASHINGTON, ET AL. v.
UNITED STATES AND UNITED STATES SPRUCE.
PRODUCTION CORPORATION.
ON CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COTRT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 255.

Argued November 15, 1923.-Decided November 26, 1923.

1. A suit by the United States and its corporate instrumentality
against a county and its taxing officers, to avoid state and county
taxation of property held by the corporation, upon the ground of
"If an appeal or writ of error has been or shall be taken to, or
issued out of, any circuit court of appeals in a case wherein stich
appeal or writ of error should have been taken to or issued out of the
Supreme Court; or if an appeal or writ of error has been or shall
be taken to, or issued out of, the Supreme Court in a case wherein
such appeal or writ of error should have been taken to, or issued out
of, a circuit court of appeals, such appeal or writ of error shall not
for such reason be dismissed, but shall be transferred to the proper
court, . . ."

