234

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

McGREGOR v. HOGAN, SHERIFF OF WARREN
COUNTY, GEORGIA, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.

No. 58. Argued October 9, 1923.-Decided November 12, 1923.
"1.A state taxing statute which, although not providing for notice
and hearing before the assessment of property by a board of
assessors, grants the taxpayer after due notice the right to a hearing before arbitrators, to be selected one by himself, one by the
board, and a third by these two, who shall finally assess and fix the
valuation of his property, affords him. the notice and hearing
required by due process of law; and a taxpayer who, being duly
notified of, the board's assessment, abstains from demanding an
arbitration, so that under the statute the assessment becomes final,
has no ground for attacking the assessment as unconstitutional.
P' 236.
2. This case differs from Turner v. Wade, 254 U. S. 64, involving the
same statute, where the arbitration failed because the arbitrators
could not agree, yet the assessment, made by the board of assessors
without notice or hearing, was nevertheless held conclusive by the
state court under a provision of the statute making the board's
assessment final when the arbitrators do not decide within a speci'fied time. P. 237.
153 Ga. 473, affirmed.

,ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia,
d~nying relief in a suit to enjoin enforcement of an execution for taxes.
Mr. L. D. McGregor, with whomMr. Virgil E. Adams

w4s on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. E. P. Davis, with whom Mr. Geo. M. Napier, Att'orlney General of the State of Georgia, and Mr. J.Cecil
Davis were on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the

opinion of the

Coirt.

McGregor, the plaintiff in error, filed- a petition in a
Superior Court of Georgia to enjoin the enforcement of

McGREGOR v. HOGAN.
234

Opinion of the Court.

an execution for taxes-assessed against his property, alleging that the Tax Equalization Act (Georgia Laws, 1913,
p. 123) under which they had been assessed was in con-

flict with the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. After a hearing on pleadings and proof
judgment was entered denying the injunction. This was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State. 153 Ga. 473.
McGregor's contention here, as it was in the state
courts, is that by ยง 6 of the Tax Equalization Act the
assessment of taxes made by the Board of County Tax
Assessors ex parte "becomes final and conclusive against
the taxpayer without any notice or an opportunity to be
heard thereon," thereby -depriving him of his property
without due process 6f law.
This act was before this Court in Turner v. Wade, 254
U. S. 64. Section 6' requires the Board. of County Tax
Assessors to examine the returns of the taxpayers of the
county; and if, in its opinion, any taxpayer has failed
to return any of his property at a just and fair valuation,
the Board'shall correct such return and assess such valuation. The Board shall immediately give notice to any
taxpayer of any change made -in his return; and if any
taxpayer is dissatisfied with its action he may, within a
specified time, give notice to the Board that he demands
an arbitration; giving the name of his arbitrator. The
Board shall then name its arbitrator and these two shall
select a third, a majority of whom shall fix the assessment on the property; and their decision shall be final.2
The arbitrators shall take an official oath "before entering upon a hearing "; and they shall render their decision
1 The greater part of this section is set forth in the margin of the
opinion in Turner v. Wade, svpra, at p. 66.
2 Except so. far as the same may be affected by the findings and
orders of the'State Tax Commissioner, who is authorized by ยง 13 of
the act to adjust and equalize the tax valuations of various classes
of property as made in the several counties of the State.

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

within ten days from the naming of the arbitrator by the
Board, else the decision of the Board shall stand affirmed
and be binding in the premises.
McGregor returned his property for taxation at the
value of $12,500. The Board, without notice or hearing,
raised this valuation to $23,256. It duly notified McGregor of such increase. He did not, however, demand
an arbitration-being advised by his counsel, it is stated,
that in Turner v. Wade, supra, this Court had held the
arbitration clause of the act to be unconstitutional.
Thereafter, the time allowed by the act in which he might
demand an arbitration having expired, execution was
issued for the taxes at the valuation assessed by the Board.
The act, it is true, as recognized by the Supreme Court
of Georgia in the present case, does not require the Board
of Assessors to give any notice to the taxpayer or grant
him a hearing before assessing the value of the property.
Turner v. Wade, supra, p. 70.' It does not, however,.
make this assessment by the Board final hnd conclusive
against the taxpayer. On the contrary, it requires notice
to him of any change made from the valuation at which
he returned his property, and gives him the right to a
hearing before arbitrators, who, acting under oath, shall
finally determine and fix the valuation at which the property is to be assessed. That the taxpayer's right to an
arbitration includes the right to a hearing before the arbitrators, is not only apparent from the specific reference
to "a hearing," but is the construction given by the
Supreme Court of the State in Ogletree v. Woodward,
150 Ga. 691, 696, and Wade v. Turner, 146 Ga. 600, and
in the present case. This construction of the act by thp
highest court of the State is to be accepted by this Court.
Farncomb v. Denver, 252 U. S, 7, 10. Furthermore, in
Turner v. Wade, supra, p. 70, this Court reached independently the same conclusion and stated that in the
event of dissatisfaction of the taxpayer "the arbitration
was to afford .a hearing to him."

McGREGOR v. HOGAN.
234

237

Opinion of the Court.

It is not essential to due process of law that the taxpayer be given notice and hearing before the value of his
property is originally assessed; it being sufficient if he is
granted the right to be heard on the assessment before
the valuation is finally determined. PittsburghRailway
v. Backus, 154 U. S. 421, 426. And see McMillen v. Anderson, 95 U. S. 37, 42, and Turpin v. Lemon, 187 U. S.
51, 58. The requirement of due process is that after such
notice as may be appropriate the taxpayer have opportunity to be heard as to the amount of the tax by giving him
the right to appear for that purpose at some stage of
the proceedings before the tax becomes irrevocably fixed.
Turner v. Wade, supra, p. 67. And see Londoner v.
Denver, 210 U. S. 373, 385.
And since this act, although not providing for notice
and hearing before the assessment by the Board of Assessors, grants the taxpayer after due notice the right to a
hearing before arbitrators who shall finally assess and fix
the valuation of his property, we find in its provisions no
want of that notice and hearing which is essential to due
process. The decision of this Court in Turner v. Wade,
supra, upon which McGregor relies, is not in conflict with
this conclusion. There was not in that case any holding
that ยง 6 of the act was unconstitutional on its face for
want of necessary provisions for notice and hearing,-the
right to notice of the assessment and hearing before the
arbitrator being specifically recognized-but merely a
holding, (p. 70), that, since the arbitration had failed
because the arbitrators could not agree upon the valuation
and no majority award had been made within the specified
ten-day period, and the act had been construed and applied by the Suprenie Court of the State as making the
original assessment by the Board of Assessors final'in such
situation, the taxpayer had thus become subject to the
assessment made by the Board of Assessors without notice
and hearing, without the revisory action by the arbitrators

238

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

provided by the act, and had, on these facts, and under
such construction and application of the act, been denied
the due process of law.
In short, it was not held that either ยง 6 of the act or
the arbitration provisions thereof were in and of themselves unconstitutional, but merely, in effect, that when
the arbitration demanded by the taxpayer became inoperative through no default on his part, he could not in
consequence be lawfully subjected to the previous assessment made without notice and hearing. Manifestly this
decision has no application to the preseiut case, where the
provisions for arbitration did not thus become inoperative, but McGregor declined to avail himself of the arbitration to which the act entitled him, and the assessment
that had been made by"the Board of Assessors was thus
rendered final and conclusive not by the force of the act
itself but by hi own deliberate default.
Having thus failed to avail himself of the hearing
granted by the act he was properly held by the Supreme
Court of Georgia to have no- just ground, of complaint.
Where a city charter gives property owners an opportunity to be heard before a board of assessors with respect
to the justice and validity of local assessments for proposed public improvements and empowers the board to
determine such complaints before the assessments are
made, parties who do not avail themselves of such opportunity cannot thereafter be heard to complain of such
assessments as unconstitutional. Farncomb v. Denver,
supra,p. 11; cited with approval in Milheim v. Improvement District,262 U. S. 710, 724, in reference to an analogous situation.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia is accordingly
Affirmed.

