WEBB v. O'BRIEN.
Argument for Appellants.

WEBB, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA, ET AL. v. O'BRIEN ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 26.

Argued April 23, 24, 1923-Decided November 19, 1923.

1,A citizen can have no legal right to enter into a contract involving
land with an alien who cannot legall make and carry out the
contract. P. 321.
2. In the absence of a treaty to the contrary, a State has power to
deny aliens the right to own land within its borders. P. 322.
3. A cropping contract between an owner of fand in California and
a Japanese Alien, which, though it may not amount to a lease or
a transfer of an interest in real property, is more than a contract
of employment in that it gives the alien a right, to use, and have
a share in the benefit of, the land for agricultural purposes, exceeds
the privileges granted to such aliens by Art. I of the treaty of
February 21, 1911, 37 Stat. 1504, between the United States and
Japan, and is forbidden by the California Alien Land Law, which
denies to aliens ineligible to citizenship permission to have or enjoy
any privilege, not prescribed in the, treaty,,in respect to the use or
the benefit of land for agricultural purposes. P. 322.
4. In forbidding such contracts, the state law violates no right of
the landowner or the alien under the Federal Constitution. P. 324.
See Terrace v. Thqmpson, ante, 197; Porterfield v. Webb, ante,
225. Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S.33, distinguished.
279 Fed. 117, reversed.
APPEAL

from a decree of the District Court granting

an interlocutory injunction, in a suit to enjoin state offi-

6ials from instituting proceedings to enforce the California Alien Land Law.
Mr. U. S. Webb, Attorney General of the State of California, with whom Mr. Frank English, Deputy Attorney
General,. and Mr. C. C. Coolidge were on the brief, for
appellants.
I. The law of landlord and tenant, and the distinction
drawn by the courts between the title of a lessee and the

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Appellants.

263 U. S.

mere right to compensation ofa cropper, have developed
in consideration of the mutual rights of the parties to
these agreements and the rights of third parties other
than the State.
. II. The State of California is not concerned with the
rights that the law of real property may or may not give
to such a cropper to assign the growing crop. The State
-is interested in preventing such a cropper, if he be an
alien ineligible to citizenship, actually enjoying the possession and dominion of the land.
Here we should have practical dominion of the soil by
this particular ineligible alien. His interests would demand that he cultivate the soil according to his owntheories and impose thereon such living environments as
would be most conducive to his own advantage, just as
he would if he owned the land.
The influence, standard of living, agricultural ideas and
economic theories of this alien would prevail. The knowledge of husbandry gained from this experience would
redound to the benefit of this alien. In the case of regular
"employment," the theories of the owner of the land
would prevail and such an owner would be the gainer by
reason of this experience.
One important reason for the r-de that we find in some
States, that a cropper has no interest in the land, is to
protect the owner of the land from the results that would
follow, as a matter of law, if the arrangement were considered'a lease, and complete title to the crop thus vested
in the cropper as -t lessee up to the time of the division
of the crop. Guest v. Opdyke, 31 N. J. L. 552; Caswell v.
Districh, 15 Wend. 379.
Other cases hold against the theory of a lease, so as to
vest sufficient title to the crop in the owner of the land,
to permit of the owner joining as a plaintiff in actions
brought to protect the crop. None of the results that
should be avoided need happen in California if in this

WEBB v. O'BRIEN.
313

Argument for Appellees.

case it is determined that the cropper has such an interest
in the land as to violate the California Alien Land Act.
See Johnson v. Hoffman, 53 Mo. 504.
III. The rule established by the California Supreme
Court, on cropping contracts, is that the landowner and
the cropper may be tenants in common of the crop and
at the same time the cropper may have an interest in the
land. This is a different rule than that which exists in
some other jurisdictions. Bernal v. Hovious, 1T Cal. 541;
Walls v: Preston, 25 Cal. 60; Knox v. Marshall, 19 Cal.
617; Smith v. Schultz, 89 Cal. 526; and see Moulton v.
Robinson, 27 N. H. 550; Warner v. Abbey, 112 Mass. 355;
Ferrisv. Hoglan, 121 Ala. 240; Dixon v. Niccolls, 39 Ill.
•372; McNeal v. Rider, 79 Minn. 153; Strangeway v.
Eisenman, 68 Minn. 395.
Mr. Louis Marshall for appellees.
I. The cropping contract, the execution of which the
appellants contend would subject the parties to punishment by imprisonment or fine, or both, and -vould immediately result in an escheat of tne land to which it
relates to the State of California, does not come within
the terms of the act, because it does not effect a transfer
of real property or of an interest therein.
This statute does not undertake to prohibit any aliens
from entering into a contract for the performance of
labor upon agricultural lands within the State of California. Had it attempted to do so, the effort would have
been nugatory, because it would clearly offend against
the provision of the Fourteenth Amendment which
guarantees them against deprivation of their liberty and
property without due process of law. Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; Truax y. Raich, 239 U. S. 33; Whitfield v. Hanges, 222 Fed. 745; § 1977, U. S. Rev. Stats.
In order to give the statute of 1920 any constitutional
effect whatever (which we have contended, in the Porter-

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Appellees.

263 U. S.

field Case, [ante, 225,] cannot be done,) it must relate
to the acquisition of the title of real property or of an
interest therein. That is the only reasonable significance
that can attach to the language of § § 1, 2, and 3, and is
emphasized by other parts of the act.
The contract here does not constitute a transfer of real
property. It is in its essence a contract of employment.
It contains not a single word or phrase essential to the
creation of a lease. It does -not convey or transfer any
land to Inouye; it does not provide for the payment by
-him of any. rent. It does not give to him the general
possession of the land, but, on the contrary, the general
possession is reserved to O'Brien, the owner. It does not
confer upon him the .ownership of the crops growing on
the land. It does not even provide that he shall give to
the owner any part of the crops produced. On the contrary, O'Brien, the. owner, is to compensate Inouye for
his labor and services, by giving to him one-half of the
crops grown on the land, and in'order to avoid any possibility of d misinterpretation the instrument merely permits Inouye to work the land and provides that he shall
have no interest or estate whatsoever in it. There is not
a word which would justify an inference that the contract
was anything else than a contract for personal services
rendered by Inouye. Nor does it by its terms inure to or
bind his personal representatives or assigis. From the
beginning to, the end' of the document the relation between the parties as that of employer and employee is
meticulously maintained.
To sustain the appellants' contention would involve the
escheat of O'Brien's property-a forfeiture-and the imprisonment or fine, or both fine and imprisonment, of both
O'Brien and Inouye, under the penal provisions of the
act. The law abhors a forfeiture.
' Statutes in derogation of common-law rights, Meister
v. Moore, 96 U. S. 79; Shaw v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S.

WEBB v. O'BRIEN.
313

Argument for Appellees.

565; Texas & Paeific Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co.,
204 U. S. 426; Thompson v. Thompson, 218 U. S. 618;
and all statutes of a penal nature, whether civil or
criminal, must be construed strictly in favor of those
whom they affect, irrespective of whether the penalty is
forfeiture of property, fine, or imprisonment.
If the acts alleged do not come clearly within the prohibition of the statute, its 'scope will not be extended to
include other offenses than those which are clearly prescribed and provided for; and if there is a fair doubt as
to whether the act charged is embraced in the prohibition,
that doubt is to be resolved in favor of the defendant:
Whatever differences may have existed at an earlier
period as to the effect of cropping contracts, the law is
now well settled, and unless the provisions of the agreement clearly indicate an intent to create a leasehold or
to confer an interest in land on which the work is to be
done, the relation between the owner of the property and
the person cultivating the land is regarded as that of'employer and employee. 1 Washburn, Real Property, 5th
ed.; p. 604; 2 Reeves, Real Property, § 564; Jones, Landlord and Tenant, § 49; Warvelle, Ejectment, § 26; McAdam, Landlord and Tenant, 4th edl, § 45; 17 Corpus
Juris, p. 382; Caswell v. Districh, 15 Wend. 378; Putnah
v. Wise, 1 Hill, 234; Bernal v. Hovious, 17 Cal. 541;
Walls v. Preston,25 Cal. 59; Clarke v. Cobb, 121 Cal. 595;
Taylor v. Bradley, 39 N. Y. 129; Unglish. v. Marvin, 128
N. Y. 380; Reynolds v. Reynolds, 48 Hun, 142; Vaughn
v. DeWandler, 63 How. Pr. 380; Booher v. Stewart, 75
Hun, 214; Estate of Ellis, 78 Misc. 589; Stall v. Wilbur,
77 N. Y. 158; Sexton v. Breese, 135,N. Y. 391 Crosby
v. Woleben, 149 App. Div. 338; Wiggins Ferry Co. v. Ohio
& Mississippi Ry. Co., 142 U. S. 396; Taylor v. Donahoe,
125 Wis. 513; Guest v. Opdyke, 31 N. J. L. 552; State v.
Jewell, 34 N. J. L. 259; State v. Reynolds, 67 N. J. L. 169;
and many other cases. Distinguishing, Smith v. Schultz,

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

89 Cal. 526; Dixon v. Niccolls, 39 Ill. 372; Ferris v.
Hoglan, 121 Ala. 240; Strangeway v. Eisenman, 68 Minn.
395; and McNeal v. Rider, 79 Minn. 153.
It is well settled that a cropper may not maintain trespass or ejectment for a wrongful entry upon the premises
on which he carries on his work. Bradish v. Schenck 8
Johns. 151; Hare v. Celey, Cro. Eliz. 143; Decker v.
Decker, 17 Hun, 14; Taylor v. Bradley, 39 N. Y. 12.
II. There is no merit in the suggestion that the act
under
consideration in any manner effected a
change in
the principles controlling a cropper's contract and its legal
effect, so as to convert it into a lease and a transfer of
an interest in land, and thus make it the basis of a forfeiture and a criminal prosecution.
,If the State of California had regarded such a contract
as an evil, it would have been a very simple matter to
have used appropriate language in the statute to forbid
a landowner or an alien from entering into such a contract.
A. failure to express what it would have been easy to
say is significant and frequently decisive. United States
v. Chase, 135 U. S.259; National Bank v. Matthews, 98
U. S. 627; Tompkins v. Fort Smith Ry., "125 U. S. 127;
Tillson v. United States, 100 U. S. 46; Railroad Co. v.
Grant, 98 U. S. 403; United States v. First Natl. Bank,
.234 U. S. 262.
The fact that the authorities are at one in declaring
-that such an agreement as that in the case at bar is one
of employment; and does not confer an interest in land,
shows beyond a-doubt that there is nothing in this statute
which amounts to an exercise by the State of that dominion which appellants are seeking to ascribe to it.
MA.

JusTIcm BuTLER delivered the opinion of.the Court.

This is. a suit brought by the appellees to enjoin the
Attorney General of. California and the DistrictAttorney

WEBB v. O'BRIEN.
313

Opinion of the Court.

of Santa Clara County from instituting any proceedings
to enforce the California'Alien Land Law" against them.
O'Brien is a citizen and resident of California, and owns
ten acres of agricultural land in the county of Santa Clara.
Initiative Measure adopted November 2, 1920. Statutes 1921,
p. lxiii.
Section 1. All aliens eligible to citizenship under the laws of the
United States may acquire, possess, enjoy, transmit, and inherit real
property, or any interest therein, in this state, in the same manner
and to the same extent as citizens of the United States, except as
otherwise provided by the laws of this state.
Section 2. All aliens other than those mentioned in section one of
this act may acquire, possess, enjoy and tratsfer real property, or
any interest therein, in this state, in the manne and to the extent
and for the purpose prescribed by any treaty now existing between
the government of the United States and the nation or countiy of
which such alien is a citizen or subject, and not otherwise.
Section 3 provides that any company, association or corporation
a majority of whose members are ineligible aliens or in which a
niajority of .the issued capital stock is owned by such aliens is permitted to acquire, possess, enjoy and convey real property or any
interest therein, in the manner and to the extent and for the purposes
prescribed by any treaty, etc. Hereafter, ineligible aliens may become
members of or acquire shares of stock- in any company, association or
corporation that is or may be authorized to acquire, possess, enjoy or
convey agricultural land, in the manner and to the extent and for the
purposes prescribed by any treaty

.

.

.

and not otherwise.

Section 4 provides that no ineligible alien and no company, association or corporation mentioned in § 3 may be appointed 'guardian
of that portion of the estate of a minor which consists of property
which such alien or such company, asscciation or corporation is
inhibited from acquiring, possessing, enjoying or transferring by
reason of the provisions of the act. The superior court may remove
the guardian of such an estate whenever it appears to the satisfaction
of the court that facts exist which would make the guardian ineligible
to appointment in the first instance.
Section 5(a). The term "trustee" as used in this section means
any person, company, association or corporation that as guardian,
trustee, attorney-in-fact or agent, or in any other capacity has the
title, custody or control of property, or some interest therein, belonging to an ineligible alien'or t6 the minor child of such an alien, if the

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

Inouye is a capable farmer, and is a Japanese subject
living in California. O'Brien and Inouye desire to enter
into a cropping contract covering the planting, cultivating
property is of such a character that such alien is inhibited from
acquiring, possessing, enjoying or transferring it.
(b). Annually every such trustee must file a verified written report
showing: . . . (3) An itemized account of all expenditures, in,vestments, rents, issues and profits in respect to the administration
and control of such property with particular reference to -holdings of
corporate stock and leases, cropping contracts and other agreements
in respect to land and the handling or sale of products thereof is
required of such trustee.
Section 6 provides for sale and distribution of proceeds when, by
reason of the provisions of the act, any heir cannot take real property
or membership or shares of stock in a company, association or corporation.
Section 7 provides for the escheat of property acquired in fee by
any ineligible alien and that no alien, company, association or corporation mentioned in § 2 or § 3 hereof shall hold for a longer period
than two years, the possession of any agricultural land acquired in
the enforcement of or in satisfaction of a mortgage or other lien
hereafter made or acquired in good faith to secure a debt.
Section 8. Any leasehold or other interest in real property less than
a fee, hereafter acquired in violation of the provisions of this act
by any ineligible alien or by any company, association or corporation
mentioned in section 3 of this act, shall escheat to the State of California. . . . Any share of stock or interest of any member in a
company, association or corporation hereafter acquired in violation
of the provisions of section 3 of this act shall escheat to the State of
California.
Section 9. Every transfer of real property, or of an interest therein,
though colorable in form, shall be void as to the state and the interest
thereby conveyed or sought to be conveyed shall escheat to the state
if the property interest involved is of such a character that an
ineligible alien is inhibited from acquiring, possessing, enjoying or
transferring it, and if the conveyance is made with intent to prevent,
evade or avoid escheat as provided for herein.
- Section 10. If two or more persons conspire to effect a transfer of
real property, or of an interest therein, in violation of the provisions
hereof, they. are punishable by imprisonment in the county jail or
state penitentiary not exceeding two years, or by a fine not exceeding
/
five thousand dollars, or both.

WEBB v. O'BRIEN.
313

Opinion of the Court.

and harvesting of crops to be grown on the land. They
allege that the execution of such a contract is necessary in
order that the owner may receive the largest return from
the land, and that the alien may receive compensation
therefrom; that the Attorney General and District Attorney have threatened to and will enforce the act against
them if they execute the contract, and will forfeit or attempt to forfeit the land by an escheat proceeding, and
will prosecute them criminally for violating the act.
They aver that the act is so drastic, and the penalties for
its violation are so great, that neither of them may execute
the contract even for the purpose of testing its validity
and its application thereto; and that, unless the court
shall determine the validity of the act and its application,
they will be compelled to submit to it, whether valid or
invalid, and to the appellants' interpretation of it, and so
be deprived of their property without due process of law
and denied the equal protection of the laws in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Appellees applied for an interlocutory injunction. The
matter was heard by three judges, as provided in § 266
of the Judicial Code. The inj.unction was granted, and
the Attorney General and District Attorney appealed.
O'Brien, who is a citizen, has no legal right to enter into
the proposed contract with Inouye, who is an ineligible
Japanese alien, -unless the latter is permitted by law- to
make and carry out such a contract. At common law,
aliens, though not permitted to "take land by operation
of law, may take by the act of the parties; but they have
no capacity to hold against the State, and the land so
taken may be escheated to the State. See Fairfax's
Devisee v. Hunter's Lessee, 7 Cranch, 603, 609, 619; 620;
Governeur's Heirs v. Robertson, 11 Wheat. 332, 355;
Phillips v. Moore, 100 U. S. 208, 212; Atlantic & Pacific
t1. R. Co. v. Mingus, 165 U. S. 413, 431. In the absence of
74S308°-24----&21

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

a treaty to the contrary, the State has power to deny to
aliens the right to own land within its borders. Terrace
v. Thompson, ante, 197; Hauenstein v. Lynham, 100
U. S. 483, 484, 488; Blythe v. Hinckley, 127 Cal. 431,
affirmed 180 U. S. 333, 340; Ex parte Okahara,216 Pac.
614. The provision of the act which limits the privilege
of ineligible aliens to acquire real property or any interest
therein to that prescribed by treaty is not in conflict with
the Fourteenth Amendment. Terrace v. Thompson,
supra; Porterfield v. Webb, ante, 225; Ex parte Okahara,
supra. The treaty between the United States and Japan
(37 Stat. 1504-1509) does not confer upon the citizens or
subjects of either in the territories of the other the right
to acquire, possess or enjoy lands for agricultural purposes.
Terrace v. Thompson, supra; Ex parte Okahara,supra.
By the proposed cropping contract, Inouye is given the
right for a term of four years to plant, cultivate and harvest crops-berries and vegetables-on the land, and to
be free from interference by the owner, who undertakes to
protect him during the term against interference by any
other person. He is entitled to housing for himself, and
is granted the right to employ others to work on the land,
and to give to them free ingress and egress and the right
to live on the land. He is entitled to one-half of all crops
grown on the land during the term, to be divided after
theyare harvested and before removal from the land, and
is given a reasonable time after the expiration of the term
to remove his share of the crops. He is required to accept
his share of the crops as reimbursement for expenditures
made to carry on the farming operations, and as his only
return from the undertaking. Assuming that the proposed
arrangement does not amount to, a leasing or to a transfer
of an interest in real property, and that it includes the
elements of a contract of employment (Ex parte Okahara,
supra), we are of opinion that it is more than a contract
of employment; and that, if executed, it will give to

WEBB v. O'BRIEN.

323

f

313

Opinion of the Court.

Inouye a right to use and to have or share in the benefit
of the land for agricultural purposes. And this is so, notwithstanding other clauses of the contract to the effect
that the general possession of the land is reserved to the
owner, that the cropper shall have no interest or estate
whatever in the land, that he is given one-half of all crops
grown as compensation for his services and labor, and
that division of.the crops is to, be made after they are
harveste and before their removal from the land.
The treaty grants liberty to own or lease and occupy
houses, manufactories, farehouses and shops, and to lease
land for residential and commercial purposes 2 Section 2
of the act extends the privilege to acquire, possess, enjoy
and transfer real property or any interest thercin only in
the manner and to the 'extent and for the purposes prescribed in the treaty. The treaty gives no perrtiission to
enjoy, use or have the benefit of land for agricultural purposes. The privileges granted by the act are carefully
limited to those prescribed in the treaty. The act as a
whole evidences legislative intention that ineligible aliens
shall not be permitted to have or enjoy any privilege in
respect of the use or the benefit of land for agricultural
purposes. And this view is supported by the circumstances and negotiations leading up to the making of the
treaty. See Terrace v. Thompson, supra; Same V. Same,
274 Fed. 841, 844, 845. As applied to this case, the act
may be read thus: "Ineligible aliens may own or lease
houses, manufactories; warehouses and shops, and may
lease land for residential and commercial purposes. These
2

Article I. The citizens or subjects of each of the High Contracting Parties shall have liberty to enter, travel and reside in the territories of the other to carry on trade, wholesale and retail, to own
or lease and occupy houses, manufactories, warehouses and'shops, to
employ agents of their. dhoice, to lease land for residential and commerci purposes, and generally to do anything incident to or necessary 4ok trade upol the same terms as native citizens or subjects,
submitting 'Uaemselves -'i.the laws and -regulations there established.

.324

I

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

things, but no possession or enjoyment of land otherwise,
are permitted."
The term of the proposed contract, the measure of control and dominion over the land which is necessarily involved in the performance of such a contract, the cropper's
right to have housing for himself and to have his employees live on the land, and his obligation to accept onehalf the crops as his only return for tilling the land clearly
distinguish the arrangement from one of mere employment. The case differs from Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S.33.
In that case, a statute of Arizona making it a -criminal
offense for an 6mployer of morethan five workers, regardless of kind or class of work or sex of workers, to employ
less than eighty per 'cent. native born, citizens of the
United States was held to infringe the right, secured by the
-Fourteenth Amendment, of a resident alien to work in a
common occupation-, cooking in a restaurant. The right
-to make and carry out cropper contracts such as that before us is not safeguarded to ineligible aliens by the Constitution. A-denial of it does not deny the ordinary means
of earning a livelihood or the right to work for a living.
The practical result of such contract is that the cropper
has use, control and benefit of land for agricultural purposes substantially similar to that granted to a lessee.
Conceivably, by the use of such contracts, the population
living on and cultivating the farmlands. might come to be
made up lafgely of ineligible aliens. The allegiance of
the farmers to the State directly affects its strength and
safety. Terrace v. Thompson, supra. We think it within
the power of the State to deny to ineligible aliens the
privilege so to use agricultural lands within its borders.
The decision of the Supreme Court of California in
Ex parte Okahara,supra, a habeas corpus case, does not
support the appellees' contention. In that case an ineligible Japanese was held on a warrant charging him with
conspiracy to effect a transfer of real property in violation

WEBB v. O'BRIEN.
313

Opinion of the Court.

of § 10 of the Alien Land Law. The gravamen of the offense charged was that Okahara, in furtherance of the conspiracy, executed a contract with another, whereby the
latter transferred to him for a term of five years an interest in 20 acres of agricultural land. The only question
before the court in that case was whether the contract
amounted to a transfer of real property or of an interest
therein in violation of § 10. The court said:
the instrument before us cannot be characterized as a lease
or transfer of any interest in real property because it lacks
many of the essential elements of a lease, while on the
other hand it bears all the characteristics of an agreement
of hiring. But if 'it cannot be said to be an agreement of
employment pure and simple, it cannbt under any rule
of construction be held to be more than a'crotping contract." After referring to the terms of the contract and
reviewing authorities, it said: "The argument that the law
forbids the making of a contract of employment or agreement to till the soil on shares can only be sustained by
adopting the theory that the particular agreement under
consideration transfers an interest in land," The court
held that the contract did not violate,§ 10 and discharged
Okahara. The contract in that case differs in important
particulars from the one before us; but in the view we
take of this case, we need not determine whether, within
the meaning of the act, the contract between O'Brien and
Inouye, if executed, would effect a transfer of an interest
in real property. The question in this-case is .not whether
the prop6sed contract is prohibited by § 10, but it is
.whether appellees have shown that. they have a right
under the Constitutioh or treaty to make and carry out
the contract, and are entitled to an interlocutory injunction against the officers of the State. A negative answer
must be given.
The privilege to make and carry out the prcposed cropping contract, or to have the right to the possession, en-

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Statement of the Case.

263 U. S.

juy±t,±1t. and

benefit of land for agricultural purposes as
contemplated and provided for therein, is not given to
Japanese subjects by the treaty. The act denies the privilege because not given by the treaty. No constitutional
right of the alien is infringed. It therefore follows that
the injunction should have been denied.
The orderappealedfrom is reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS
think there is no justiciable question involved and that the
case should have been, dismissed on that ground.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND took no part in the con-

sideration or decision of this case.
FRICK ET AL. v. WEBB, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF
TIE STATE OF CALIFORNIA, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 111.

Argued April 23, 24, 1923.-Decided November 19, 1923.

Section 3 of the California Alien Land Law, permitting aliens ineligible to citizenship to "acquire shares of stock in any . . . corporation that is or may be authorized to acquire, possess, enjoy
or convey agricultural land, in the manner and to the extent and
for the purposes prescribed by any treaty . . . and not otherwise," renders illegal a ciontract between a citizen of the 'State and
a Japanese alien for sale by the one to the other of shares in such
a corporation,.and is consistent with the treaty between the United
States and Japan and the due process and equal protection clauses
of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 333. See Porterfield v. Webb,
and Webb v. O'Bfien, ante, pp. 225, 313.
281 Fed. 407, affirmed.
"APPEAL

from an order of the District Court refusing an

interlocutory injunction in a suit to restrain officials of
the State of California from enforcing the California

Alien Land Law.

