ELECTRIC BOAT CO. v. U. S.
611

Syllabus.

no application. We held there that Congress, having
found that the sales of grain for future delivery on the
Board of Trade were susceptible to speculation, maniliulation and control affecting interstate consignments of
grain, in such a way as to cause a direct burden on, and
interference with, interstate commerce therein, had power
to place such markets under federal supervision to prevent
such abuses. But nothing in the case sustains the view
that those promoting and operating such an Exchange are
themselves imposing a burden or restraint upon interstate
commerce for which they may be indicted under the AntiTrust Act, or from continuing which they may be enjoined. The Government in effect asks this Court to enforce rules and regulations for the "conduct.of the Sugar
Exchange which shall prevent the future abuse of its lawful functions. This is legislative and beyond our power.
The decree 6f the DistrictCourt is affirmed.

ELECTRIC BOAT COMPANY v, UNITED STATrES.
APPEAL FROM THE, COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 159.

Argued January 11, 14, 1924.-Decided January 28, 1924.

Where the United States, without disclosure to, it of the scope of an
application for patent, obtained by a contract with the applicant

a license, at certain rates, to manufacture and use the devices
covered by the application, and was later sued by the licensor for
its use. of' a device procured from another, which the licensor
claimed came within his application and subsequent patent, held:
(a) That the Government was not estopped from showing, by attendant facts and circumstances, that the contract was not intended
by the parties to. apply to the device so used, and (b) that a
judgment of the Court of Claims, so limiting the contract, upon
facts found, was not erroneous as a matter of law. P. 627.

7 Ct. Clms. 4ยง7, affirmed.

622

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Appellant.

APPEAL from

263-U. S.

a judgment of the Court of Claims reject-

ing the appellant's claim, upon the facts f6und from the
evidence.
Mr. Dean S. Edmonds and Mr. FrederickP. Fish, with
whom Mr. William H. Davis was on the brief, for appellant.
A single question is presented, namely, whether or not
the torpedoes constructed are within the patent, nd therefore within the license and subject to the royalty payment
provided for therein.
No question arises as to the validity of the Davison patent, because appellee is a licensee under the patent.
Eclipse Bicycle Co. v. Farrow, 199 U. S. 581; Harvey
Steel Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 310.
The patent must be construed, particularly with respect to the claims indicated, to determine whether or not
appellee's torpedo falls'within it. This is a question of
law to be decided by the Court. Singer Mfg. Co. v.
Cramer, 192 U. S. 265.
Appellee's construction in all essential respects is identical with the construction of the Davison patent.
The only difference worthy of comment between appellee's and -the patented constructions relates to the automatic regulator of the Davison patent. The characteristics attained by the use of the regulator were fully realized by Mr. Davison and were pointed out by him in
his patent. But he realized also that these features were
subsidiary to and refinements upon the general principle
of making the feed of the fuel and water dependent upon
the feed of the air so that the flow of all three of these
ingredients would vary together, and that this principle
could be utilized, as appellee has utilized it, by causing the
air to act directly upon the fuel and water, just as well as
by causing the air to act indirectly upon them through the
-intermediacy of a pump and a regulator, as is illustrated

ELECTRIC BOAT CO. v. U. S.
621 '

623

Argument for Appellant.

in the Davison patent: This is made clear by the language of the patent.
This difference between appellee's and the Davison constructions is, therefore, a difference which has no bearing
whatever upon the issues of this suit. It involves nothing
more than the use, in the Davison construction, of an additional piece of mechanism to attain certain definite and
additional advantages which are not attained with appellee's construction and to which the claims of the patent
relied on in this suit are not limited.
A licensee is estopped from denying the validity of the
patent covered by his license, and this is just as true when
the licensee is the United States as when the licensee is an
individual. Harvey Steel Co. v. United States, 196
U. S. 312.
But the principle goes further. The licensee is estopped from reading into a plain and unambiguous claim
some element not actually- present there, and from relying upon the prior art in support of a contention that
such a construction of the claim is necessary. If a claia
could be given some strained meaning, and limited scope,
out of all harmony with the usual and accepted meaning of
the words employed and with the description of the invention contained in the specification, then the whole effect of the rule that the claim must be assumed to be
valid because of the license, would be frustrated. Eclipse
Bicycle Co. v. Farrow, 199 U. S. 581; Siemens-Halske
Elec. Co. v. DuncanElec. Mfg. Co., 142 Fed. 157; Chicago
& A. Ry. Co. v. Pressed Steel'Car Co., 243 Fed. 883; National Recording Safe Co. v. InternationalSafe Co., 158
Fed. 824; United PrintingMachinery Co. v. Cross Paper
Feeder Co., 227 Fed. 600; Leader Plow Co. v. Bridgewater
Plow Co., 237 Fed. 376; U. S. Frumentum Co. v. Lauhoif,
216 Fed. 610.
So admission of the prior art on the ground that its examination is justified in order to fix the scope of the pat-

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Appellant.

263 U. S.

ent in suit (unless the claims of the patent are, on their
face, ambiguous) is, in its practical effect, equivalent to releasing the defendant from the estoppel arising by reason
of being a licensee under the patent or having assigned the
patent to the plaintiff.
-Refusal to examine and consider such extraneous evidence as the prior patents accompanying the findings
would be particularly appropriate in this case in view of
the special fasts incident to the execution of the license.
In view of the simple facts and the plain language of
the license agreement, the meaning of the agreement, what
the -parties intended to cover by it and what they actually
did cover, are clear beyond the possibility of dispute. The
'thing which appellee was licensed to manufacture is explicitly defined, without ambiguity, at three places in the
contract.
-The correspondence leading up to the contract shows
that a contract of just that meaning is just what the parties to the contract intended. Furthermore, that the
parties understood that the Bliss torpedo'was within the
license covered by the contract is plainly indicated, for it
was the only torpedo then in existence which had run
a long range, the contract was solicited by the Department
immediately after it had run the long range, the Department's attention was called to the fact that the Davison
torpedo was "presumably similar to devices made by
other companies,"- and that the Bliss torpedo was a water
injection .orpedo made by "proceeding along the same
lines" as Davison, and, as soon as the license was in a
form approved by both parties, the Department proceeded to order 50 torpedoes like the one which ran 10,000
yards on the test.
A representative of the Navy Department. was informed
of Davison's invention and urged him to develop it.
Later, after much correspondence and negotiation, the
Navy Department contracted with appellant and another

ELECTRIC BOAT CO. v. U. S.
621

625-

Argument for the United States.

company for the manufacture of experimental torpedoes
by them, and, as soon as the first of these experimental
torpedoes was completed and tested, and its success in
.attaining a long range- demonstrated, the license agreement now before the Court was negotiated and executed.
Throughout all of these proceedings, negotiations and'
correspondence, the Davison invention was referred to
as the "Steam Gefnerator for Automobile Torpedoes,"
and that was an entirely sufficient designation for it,
because no such thing had been used before, and that
term served adequately to differentiate from the superheater which had been in common use for-years. The
purpose of the license agreement was to secure to appellee
the right to use the steam generator devised by Davison,
regardless of any question .either as to the validity of
patents he might obtain or as to the scope of their claims.
Appellee was not concerned with any such matters, and
that is why it did not think it necessary to' examine the
Davison applications then pending in the Patent Office
and in fact did not do so.
The invention was not anticipated in the prior art.
Mr. HarryE. Knight, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck, Mr.
Assistant Attorney General Lovett and Mr. L. G. Miller,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the
brief, for the United States.
1. Since the court below, on the basis of all the evidence, has found -as a fact that the defendant has not
used plaintiff's device or invention, its conclusion that
the plaintiff cannot recover presents no question of law
the determination of which can lead to reversal.
2. The contract was for a definite physical thing-the
Davison "Steam Generator for Automobile Torpedoes "-identified by and known to the Government only
'through a drawing or blue print. This device the Govern.,.4308o-24-_.

0

626

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

ment has not used, but instead it has used a device radically different in construction and operation, which device was made by the Bliss Company for the Government before the contract in question was made or was
even suggested. Harvey Steel Co. v.' United States, 196
U. S. 310; 38 Ct. Clms. 662; 39 Ct. Clms. 297.
3. The contract, in referring to a device covered by a
patent application then pending in the Patent Office and
not fixed in the form of a patent, and more especially
since the content and tenor of the application was not
considered by the parties, can be held at the most only
to relate to what the parties could reasonably have expected to be patented; that is, to the actual novelty in
'4he disclosure of that patent application, irrespective of
t1e- form of the claims which the Patent Office subsequently permitted in the patent document. Eclipse
Bicycle Co. v. Farrow, 199 U. S. 581. In the present
instance the Government utilizes devices not novel with
plaintiff's assignor, Davison, but actual embodiments of
inventions of the prior art which existed not only in the
form of printed publications before the date of his invention, but which actually existed in the form of a completed torpedo built by the Bliss Company and successfully tested under Government supervision long before
the contract was signed and even before negotiations
leading to the contract were begun.
4. The patent in suit can not include and cover what
was known to the public through a printed publication
before the data of the patentee's invention and which the
Government uses; and in fact .it does not in its terms
cover this.
MR. JusTIcE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit upon a contract made between the claimant and the United States on April 2, 1912. The contract,

ELECTETC BOAT CO. v. U.' S.
621

Opinion of the Court.

headed "Shop Lielse," recites that the claimant is
"owner of the invention known as Steam Generator for
Automobile Torpedoes covered by applications," of which
it is necessary to meition vbily one, dated March 29, 1909;
licenses the United States to manufacture and use torpedoes equipped with Steam Generators covered by the
application to the end of the term for which patent may
be granted; and binds the United States to pay at certain
rates for such torpedoes. The claimant alleged that the
United States had used the devices covered by claims 1, 5
and 13 of letters patent issued upon the above application
on August 20, 1912. The Court of Claims found that
those devices had not been used by the United States, but
that the mechanism actually used by it was practically
identical with that of a rival, the E. W. Bliss Compary,
that had been successfully tested in the fall of 1911, before the date of the above contract and before the plaintiff
had attempted but failed to satisfy the same tests.
When this contract was made the United States had not
seen the applications, which were the claimant's secret.
Both parties knew that the Government was dealing also
with a rival concern, and the United States, at least, and
probably the claimant, knew that the rival had satisfied
the Government's tests, which the claimant had not then
done. It could not be believed that the contract meant a
blind acceptance of liability for whatever might be in an
undisclosed document. It did nQt; what it aimed at was a
specific device which it was given to understand had been
invented. We do not argue this at length because the
proposition is accepted by the claimant--" the purpose *of
the license agreement was to secure to appellee the right
to use the steam generator devised by-Davison, regardless
of any question as to the validity of patents he might obThe dealings
tain or as to the scope of their claims."
began with proposals for applying a system to existing
torpedoes that would double their range, illustrated by a

628

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

drawing showing the general arrangement of the device,
identifying it but not disclosing it in detail. They ended
in the contract, which went further, but undoubtedly had
reference to a system the general nature of which was
understood.
We must take it on this record that, at the time, certain
elements.in the construction of self-moving torpedoes were
well known. The front end contained the explosive.
Behind that was'a chamber of compressed air that was
transmitted to an engine moving the propeller through a
pipe with a valve that reduced the pressure of the condensed air to the desired point and kept it constant The
moving forne was enhanced by heating. the air after it
left the valve. This was dpne, by passing it through a
combustion chamber into which was forced alcohol or
other fuel. The fuel was in a third chamber and was
carried to the place of combustion by the condensed air
through a second pipe from beyond the reducing valve.
It was ignited when the shell was launched. More was
needed to carry the torpedo the distance required to make
it usable in modem warfare. It was understood that the
result could be accomplished and danger to the contrivance from excessive heat avoided by the introduction of
water into the combustion chamber where it would become steam. The Bliss Company had given this knowledge a practical form, and there is no warrant in the record
as it comes to us for suggesting that the claimant had anything to do with the Bliss Company's success, or that the
Government had any reason for thinking that it had. In
deciding what the Government reasonably supposed that
it was buying, these facts are important, and what may
have been contained in the undisclosed application is of
little or no weight. Whatever may have been the rights
of the claimant as against the Bliss Company, the Government was entitled to assume that they did not extend to
(the above elements, separately or combined.

WASH'N-SOUTHERN CO. v. BALTIMORE CO.
621

629

Syllabus.

Manifestly, on these facts, the Government is not
estopped to show that its contract applied only within
narrow limits. If the facts were as it had a right to suppose them to be, the contract necessarily was so limited.
The Government thought that it might be that the
claimant had found a more perfect way to do what was
wanted and what the Bliss Company already had done,
but, on the record before us, it would be monstrous to suppose that it was undertaking to pay the claimant for the
Bliss Company product. The claimant was thought by the
Government to have failed in its undertaking, and therefore its device was laid aside. That device had certain
peculiarities not repeated by the Bliss Company's, but the
claimant relies and has to"rely here upon the broad contention that the introduction of water to the combustion
chamber in an. effective way belongs to it, which seems
unlikely in view of the previous British patent to Sodeau,
in 1907, and others, and which it seems to us clearly
might have been found, as by implication it was found,
by the Court of Claims, not to have been the assumption
or the meaning of the contract.. So far as appears, the use
of water by the Bliss Company owed nothing to Davison,
the claimant's assignor, but very closely embodied the
suggestions of Sodeau and other predecessors, in the field.
We cannot say as matter of law that the Court of Claims
was wrong.
Decree affirmed.
WASHINGTON-SOUTHERN
PANY v, BALTIMORE
STEAMBOAT COMPANY.

NAVIGATION COM& PHILADELPHIA

ON CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 108. Argued November 27, 28, 1923.-Decided January 28, 1924.
1. The function of rules of court is to regulate the practice of the
court and facilitate the transaction of its business. P. 635.

