ST. JOHNS CORP. v. COMPANHIA GERAL, ETC. 119
103

Statement of the Case.

19, 22; Mercantile National Bank v. New York, 121 U. S.
138, 149, 161. Counsel for the bank regard Van Allen v.
The Assessors, supra,p. 581, as making for the other view.
But that it does not do so is plainly pointed out in Mercantile National Bank v. New York, supra, p. 152. We
perceive no reason for disturbing prior decisions on the
point.
Our conclusion is that none of the objections urged
against.the state statute is well taken.
Judgment affirmed.
ST. JOHNS N. F. SHIPPING CORPORATION,
OWNER, &c. v. S. A. COMPANHIA GERAL COMMERCIAL DO RIO DE JANEIRO. "
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 43.

Argued October 4, 1923.-Decided November 12, 1923.

1. A preliminary freight reservation agreement for carriage of goods
"on or under deck, ship's option," and subject "to terms of bills
of lading in use by steamer's agents," gives the ship an option as
to place of stowage; and, in the absence of a general port custom
to the contrary, the issuance thereafter of a clean bill of lading
amounts to a positive representation by the ship that the option
has been exercised and that the goods will go under deck. P. 123.
2. Where rosin shipped under a'clean bill of lading was stowed on
deck, and was jettisoned during thd'voyage to relieve the ship in
a storm, held, that the ship was liable as for a deviation, could not escape by.reason of relieving clauses in the bill, and must pay
damages measured by the value of the goods at destination. P. 124.
280 Fed. 553, affirmed.
CERTIORARI to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed a decree of t6e'District Court, in admiralty, awarding damages againist a ship for loss of cargo.*

Mr. Clarence Bishop Smith, with whom Mr. Henry M.
Hewitt was on the brief, for petitioner.

120

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Petitioner.

263 U. S.

Silence in a bill of lading may give rise to a promise to
carry cargo under deck, but in every such case this is due
to the fact that the surrounding circumstances are such
as to make a reasonable man presume that the shipowner
will carry the cargo under deck. Silence of itself is not
a promise. It is the surrounding circumstan:ces which
speak. There are three leading classes of cases: (1)
where shipment under deck is customary and there is no
controlling contract; (2) where shipment on or under
deck, at ship's option, is customary and there is no controlling contract; (3) where custom is controlled by contract.
(1) On the first class, where shipment under deck is
customary, and no contract controls, see, The Delaware,
14 Wall. 579; The Sarnia, 278 Fed. 459. These cases
squarely support the three classifications above set forth.
In both,, goods were carried in a trade where it was customaryto carry under deck and nothing was stated in the
bill of lading about the place of shipment. In both, testimony was offered to modify the custom by an oral contract, and the court refused to admit such evidence on the
ground of the parol evidence rule. With such evidence
shut out, both courts construed the bill of lading, which
thus constituted the entire contract between the parties,
to give a promise tW carry under deck. In the absence of
a proved contract modifying the custom, the custom spoke
when the bill of lading was silerit.
(2) Where shipment on or under deck, at ship's option,
is customary, and there is no controlling contract, the
usual bill of lading is issued, making no mention of
stowage on deck, and the consignee cannot complain if
cargo is stowed on deck. If the shipper wishes to find
out if the cargo has been stowed on deck he must inquire.
This type of cases dates from the earliest days and is referred to in the summary of the law given in The Delaware, supra. An example is The Del Norte, 234 Fed. 667;
,Barberv. Brace, 3 Conn. 9.

ST. JOHNS CORP. v. COMPANHIA GERAL, ETC. 121
119

Argument for Petitioner.

(3) Deck shipment controlled by contract. There is
nothing inconsistent between. a bill of lading with no
loading endorsement on it, and a written contract allowing shipment on deck. The two documents should be
construed together. The leading case is Lawrence v.
Minturn, 17 How. 100. See Gould v. Oliver, 4 Bing. 134.
The Delaware and The Sarnia, where relied on by the
opinion of the court below in the present case, deal vith
the parol evidence rule and the construction of the bill of
lading in the absence of a provable written agreement.
In order that there may be no misconception as to the
scope of the decisions, they expressly state that if there
was a clean bill of lading and written consent to stow on
deck, the carrier can stow on deck. In Lcwrence v. Minturn the written consent was expressed exactly as it was
in the instant case in the freight contract.
(4) No duty on carrier to notify shipper as to stowage.
The cargo owner asks this-Court to find that-there was an
implication in the contract that notice of the 'place of
stowage would be stated in the bill of lading. There is
no reason for the implication; notice to the shipper of the
deck stowage was not essential to the carriage of the rosin,
and, if the shipper required notice as to how the option
was to be exercised, it should have so provided in the con-.
tract of affreightmeni. Armour & Co.v. Walford, [1921]
3 K. B. D. 473.
The freight contract as drawn up by the shipper's
broker wa§ the basic agreement. It set forth the terms
of carriage, named the vessel, the freight rate, the nature and the amount of cargo and stipulated that the
shipment might be stowed on deck at ship's option. It
further stated that it was subject to the conditions of the
Act of Congress of February 13, 1893, and to terms of
bills of lading in use by the vessel's agents.
The nature of a bill of lading is such that it operates
both as a receipt and as evidence of the contract of car-

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

riage. Michie, Carriers, p. 331; Van Etten v. Newton,
134 N. Y. 143.
The bill of lading on which libelant relies functioned
primarily as a commercial shipping receipt and secondarily-as a contract of carriage to the extent that its provisions supplemented the original agreement. There is
no sound reason for ignoring the original contract, which
permitted stowage on deck. Herr v. Tweedie Trading
Co., 181 Fed. 483; Ardan S. S. Co. v. Theband, 35 Fed.
620; Northern Pacific R. R. Co. v. American Trading Co.,
195 U. S. 439; Donovan v. Standard Oil Ca., 155 N. Y.

112.

In any event, the liability of the schooner should have
bee i limited to the invoice cost of the cargo as provided
by the bill of lading.
It was error to hold that the bill of lading and all its
terms were wiped out by the absence of a notation on the
bill of lading that the shipment was on deck. The consent to deck stowage was sufficiently evidenced in the
bill of lading as issued when that document is read in
conjunction with the freight contract that preceded it.
Under the circumstances of this case, the deck stowage
is not analogous to a voluntary deviation, and the effect
of such deviation, namely, the wiping out of the conditions of a bill of lading, is not involved. In deviating,
the ship breaches the entire contract and should not
be allowed to revive it for the purpose of cutting down
the damages. The Sarnia, 278 Fed. 459, distinguished.
See The Hadji, 18 Fed. 459; The Oneida., 128 Fed. 687.
Mr. E. Curtis Rouse, with whom Mr. J. Dexter Crowell
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE

McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The General Commercial Company, Ltd., doing busis as commission merchant and exporting concern at

ST. JOHNS CORP. v. COMPANHIA GERAL, ETC. 123
119

Opinion of the Court.

New York, in May, 1918, sold 800 barrels of rosin c. i. f.
to the respondent, a Brazilian corporation, and procured
a written freight reservation or agreement from the
agents of the schooner St. Johns N. F. to carry the goods
to Rio de Janeiro, "on or under deck, ship's option," and
subject "to terms of bills of lading in use by steamer's
agents."
The. rosin was loaded on board June 11th and clean
receipts--without endorsement concerning, stowagewere given therefor. A day or two later, upon prepayment of freight, the ship issued a clean bill of lading in
the usual form. It contained no reference to the prior
freight agreement. The goods were placed on deck, but
neither the shipper nor the consignee knew this until after
the loss occurred. There was no general custom at the
port so to stow goods of this kind for such a voyage.
The vessel was a general ship carrying many kinds of
merchandise and no charter-party question is involved.
She sailed from New York June 19th. Before reaching
Rio de Janeiro she encountered a storm and for sufficient
cause the master jettisoned the rosin in order to relieve
her. The loss resulted directly from the ondeck stowage;
the underdeck cargo was safely delivered.
Respondent libeled the schooner and demanded the.
value of the goods at destination. It claims that by issuing the clean bill of lading the vessel in effect notified the
shipper that she had exercised the option specified by
the freight agreement and would stow under deck. Also,
that the ship broke her contract as by deviation and
thereby lost the benefit of limitation or relieving clauses
in the bill.
The owners maintain that as the freight agreement
gave an option as to place of stowage it was unnecessary
for the bill of lading to specify the action taken in respect thereto, and that silence did not amount to a promise to carry under deck. Moreover, that consent to deck
stowage sufficiently appeared by the bill of lading read

124

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

with the freight agreement and tlerefore there was no
departure and no ground for assessing damages.
The court below sustained the position of the respondent and decreed accordingly. 280 Fed. 553.
We find no conflict between the written original freight
contract and the bill of lading. The former referred to
a bill thereafter to be issued and made the place of stowage optional with the ship. When issued under such
circumstances the bill amounted to a declaration that the
option had been exercised and the goods would go under
deck.
We are not dealing with a case arising under a general
port custom permitting above deck stowage notwithstanding a clean bill, with notice of which all shippers are
charged. When there is no such custom and no express
contract in a form available as evidence, a clean bill of
lading imports under deck stowage. The Delaware, 14
Wall. 579, 602, 604, 605. Upon this implication respondent had the right to rely. To say that the shipper assented to stowage on deck is not correct. It gave the vessel an option, and the clean bill of lading amounted to a
positive representation by her that this had been exercised and that the goods would go under deck.
By stowing the goods on deck the vessel broke her
contract, exposed them to greater risk than had been
agreed and thereby directly caused the loss. She accordingly became liable as for a deviation, cannot escape by
reason of the relieving clauses inserted in the bill of lading for her benefit,' and must- account -for the value at
1

The bill of lading provides-

"The carrier slhall not be liable for loss or damage occasioned by,
due to or arising from causes beyond the carrier's control, by the act
of God, vis major, by collision, stranding, jettison or wreck, perils of
the sea or other waters, by fire from any cause or wheresoever
occurring."
"In computing any liability for negligence or otherwise, by the
shipowner as carrier or otherwise, regarding any property hereby

SUPERIOR WATER CO. v. SUPERIOR.

125

Syllabus.

119

destination. Generally, the measure of damages for loss
of goods by a carrier when liable therefor is their value at
the destination to which it undertook to carry them.
Lawrence v. Minturn, 17 How. 100, 111; Mobile & Montgomery Ry. Co. v. Jurey, 111 U. S. 584, 596; New York,
L. E. & W. R. R. Co. v. Estill, 147 U. S. 591, 616; Chicago,

M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. McCaull-Dinsmore Co., 253 U. S.
97, 100; Royal Exchange Shipping Co. v. Dixon, 12 A. C.
[1887] 11; The Sarnia,278 Fed. 459; Hutchinson on Carriers, vol. 3, § T360; Carver on Carriage of Goods by Sea,

6th ed., § 287.
The decree below is affirmed.
SUPERIOR WATER, LIGHT & POWER COMPANY
v. CITY OF SUPERIOR ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.

No. 57. Argued October 9, 1923.-Decided November 1-2, 1923.
1. Where a mIunicipality, with express power from the legislature,
enters into a, contract whereby in consideration of the construction, maintenance and operation of a water system by a water
company it grants the company the exclusive right to maintain
and operate for a specified period and agrees to extend the term
when it expires or to purchase the entire plant at a price to be
determined by capitalizing the net earnings of the year preceding
the purchase, the rights acquired by the company are rights of
property which are not subject, under the Constitution, to be
impaired by subsequent legislation attempting to substitute for the
company's franchises an "indeterminate permit" to continue in
force until the municipality shall elect to purchase upon terms to
be fixed by a state commission. P. 135.
receipted for no value shall be placed on the said property higher
than the invoice cost not exceeding $100 per package (or such other
value as may be expressly stated herein), nor shall the shipowner be
held liable for any profits or consequential or special damages, and
the shipowner shall have the option of replacing any lost or damaged

goods."

