OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Counsel for Parties.

263 U. S.

State the natural flow could not be appropriated, because
the conditions did not admit of its beneficial use, and that
the artificial flow was not available, because the plaintiff
was entitled and intending to use it. The asserted appropriations therefore derive no support from the permits.
Decree affirmed.
SOUTHERN POWER COMPANY v. NORTH CAROLINA "PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 110. Argued November 28, 1923.-Decided January 7, 1924.
A writ of certiorari, granted under the impression, induced by the
petition, that a question of public importance is involved, will be
dismissed when the argument reveals that the impression was erroneous.

Writ of certiorari to review 282 Fed. 837, dismissed.
CERTIORARI to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which re-versed in part a decree of the District Court, in a
case iemoved from a court of North Carolina. The proceeding was-brought by the Public SeriVice Company and
two cities, under North Carolina statutes, to compel the
present petitioner to continue furnishing electric power.
to the Public Service Company for use in operating street
cars in the cities, and for the use of the cities and their
citizens for light and power. The decree of the District
Court, 'as modified by the court bel6w, granted this relief.

Mr. R. V. Lindabury and Mr. William P. Bynum, with
whom Mr. W. S. O'B. Robinson, Jr., Mr. E. T. Causlerand
Mr. R. C. Strudwick were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. John W. Davis and Mr. Aubrey, L. Brooks, with
whom Mr. C. A. Hines and Mr. Dred Peacock were on the
brief, fdr respondents.

SOUTHERN POWER CO. v. PUB. SERV. CO. 509
508

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTIcE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This writ must be dismissed. The petition therefor
stated that the cause involved a grave question of vital
importance to the public, and alleged as special reason for
its reexamination that the decree would deprive petitioner
of property without due process of law and of freedom to
contract, contrary to the Federal Constitution. The
opinion below is reported in 282 Fed. 837.
The argument developed that the controverted question. was whether the evidence sufficed to establish actual
dedication of petitioner's property to public use-primarily a question of fact. That is not the ground upon
which we granted the petition and if sufficiently developed
would not have moved us thereto.
Heretofore we have pointed out the necessity for clear,
definite and complete disclosures concerning the controversy when applying for certiorari. Furness, Withy
& Co. v. Yang-Tsze Insurance Association, 242 U. S. 430;
Layne & Bowler Corporation v. Western Well Works,
261 U. S. 387. The opinion first cited states that during
the 1915 term one hundred fifty-four petitions were presented and suggests the probability of a largely increased
number. During the last term (1922) petitions were filed
in four hundred and twenty causes.
Obviously it is impossible for us critically to examine so
many records before ruling upon applications and we
must rely very largely upon preliminary papers. Unless
the requirements specified in Furness, Withy & Co. v.
Yang-Tsze Insurance Association are observed we cannot
hope properly to dispose of an increasing docket.
Dismissed.

