OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Statement of the Case.

263 U. S.

juy±t,±1t. and

benefit of land for agricultural purposes as
contemplated and provided for therein, is not given to
Japanese subjects by the treaty. The act denies the privilege because not given by the treaty. No constitutional
right of the alien is infringed. It therefore follows that
the injunction should have been denied.
The orderappealedfrom is reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS
think there is no justiciable question involved and that the
case should have been, dismissed on that ground.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND took no part in the con-

sideration or decision of this case.
FRICK ET AL. v. WEBB, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF
TIE STATE OF CALIFORNIA, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 111.

Argued April 23, 24, 1923.-Decided November 19, 1923.

Section 3 of the California Alien Land Law, permitting aliens ineligible to citizenship to "acquire shares of stock in any . . . corporation that is or may be authorized to acquire, possess, enjoy
or convey agricultural land, in the manner and to the extent and
for the purposes prescribed by any treaty . . . and not otherwise," renders illegal a ciontract between a citizen of the 'State and
a Japanese alien for sale by the one to the other of shares in such
a corporation,.and is consistent with the treaty between the United
States and Japan and the due process and equal protection clauses
of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 333. See Porterfield v. Webb,
and Webb v. O'Bfien, ante, pp. 225, 313.
281 Fed. 407, affirmed.
"APPEAL

from an order of the District Court refusing an

interlocutory injunction in a suit to restrain officials of
the State of California from enforcing the California

Alien Land Law.

FRICK v. WEBB.
326

.327

Argument for Appellants.

Mr. Louis Marshallfor appellants.
I. Assuming that the ownership of shares of stock in a
California corporation having the title to agricultural land
constitutes an interest in such land, the California Alien
Land Law, which forbids aliens ineligible to citizenship
under the laws of the United States to acquire such shares,
although the right to do so has been conferred on all other
aliens, 'denies to the former the equal protection of the
laws within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment.
II. The prohibition of the acquisition by an ineligible
alien of shares of stock in a California corporation owning
agricultural land, such shares being personal property,
while all other aliens are expressly permitted to acquire
such shares, denies to the former the equal protection of
the laws.
The disability of aliens at common law in respect to
ownership of real estate does not extend to personal
property. Aliens are capable of acquiring, holding and
transmitting it in the like manner as citizens. This includes the right to take and hold personal property by
bequest, and the right of an alien testator to pass his
personalty by will. Calvin's Case, 7 Coke, 17a; Fourdrin
v. Gowdey, 3 Mylne & Keen, 397; 1 Black. Com. 372; 2
Kent Com. 62; McLearn v. Wallace, 10 Pet. 625; Beck
v. McGillis, 9 Barb. 35; Meakings v. Cromwell, 5 N. Y.
136; Cosgrove v. Cosgrove, 69 Conn. 416; Detwiler v.
Commonwealth, 131 Pa. St. 614; Clc-neland, etc. Ry. Co.
v. Osgood, 36 Ind. App. 34; 'Marx v. McGlynn, 88 N. Y.
357.
It has long been well settled that shares of stock in a
corporation are personal property, whether they be declared such by statute, as is sometimes.the cake, or not,
and whether the property of the corporation itself consists
of realty, as in the, case of mining, land, realty and canal
companies, and the like, or of personal property -only.
Cal. Civ. Code, § 324.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Appelants.

263 U. S.

The California courts have held shares of -stock to be
personalty.
That a sale of shares of stock comes within the terms
of the statute of frauds, whether the act refers to "goods,
wares and merchandise," or to "personal property," or
to "goods or choses in action," is recognized, with practical unanimity, by the American courts.
This case presents an entirely different aspect from the
one where the State is seeking to debar aliens from the
ownership of real property in accordance with a policy
that quite generally prevails and which, if applied equally
to all aliens, would not militate against any constitutionalprohibition. Even had the California act undertaken to
declare a share of stock real estate, that would not have
made it so, or have brought it within the reason of the
rule which permits a State to inhibit ownership by aliens
of real property within its territory.
Such legislation, even if made applicable to all aliens
regardless of race, color or nationality, would come within
the rule laid down in Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33; Ex
parte Kotta, 62 Cal. Dec. 315; Fraserv. McConway &
Torley Co., 82 Fed. 257; State v. Montgomery, 94 Me.
192; and Truax v. Corrigan, 257 U. S. 312; and would
sin.againSt the fundamental principle laid down in Yick
Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; Gulf, Colo. & Santa Fe Ry.
Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150, and the other leading cases in
which the equality clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
has been interpreted and applied.
The nature of a share of stock as property must be determined by its inherent characteristics and physical
qualities, and not by a legislative fiat. In this act we
have not, however, a prohibition of all aliens against the
acquisition, of the ownership of shares of stock in a corporation owning agricultural lands, but such right of
ownership is sought to be withheld from aliens ineligible
to citizenship solely because of their race, color and
nationality.

FRICK v. WEBB.
326

Argument for Appellants.

By the same token, the legislature might make like
restrictions with regard to the acquisition of shares of
stock in a company authorized to possess lands for other
than agricultural, residential and commercial purposes.
That would include corporations operating mines, railways, oil properties, quarries and water works, all of
which are basically founded on the ownership of land. .
III. Under a fair interpretation of that portion of § 3
of the Alien Land Law on which the appellees rely, the
proposed sale to and purchase by Satow of shares of
stock of the Merced Farm Company is not prohibited.
IV. The act, as applied, is unconstitutional because it
deprives the citizen appellant of the right to enter into a
contract for the sale of his shares of stock ind because it
deprives the alien appellant' of his liberty by debarring
him from entering into a contract for the purchase of corporate shares, - Yick Wo v. Hopkins; Truax v. Raich;
Butchers' Union Co. v. Crescent City Co., 111 U. S. 746;
Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578; Smith v. Texas,'
233 U. S. 630; and Coppagev. Kansas, 236 U. S. 1.
V. Section 3 of the acit, as interpreted by the State,.
offends against the treaty between the United States and
Japan, which permits the citizens or subjects of the respective partis to have liberty "to carry on trade, wholesale and retail," in the Tespective territories of the contracting nations, "and generally to do anything incident
to or necessary for trade upon the same term, as native
citizens or subjects."
To "carry on trade" is to engage in commerce in any
or all of its various phases. It is the business of exchanging commodities by buying and selling them f(_
money. Those commodities need not necessarily be merchandisebut, in the colloquial sense of the word, they
may be-sucli'securities as are "traded in" on the exchanges or in transactions between man and man. United
States v. American Tobacco Co., 164 Fed. 700; United

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Appellees.

263 U. S.

States v. Douglas, 190 Fed. 482; Finneganv. Noerenberg,
52 Minn. 239; People v. Blake, 19 -Cal. 579; State v.
Hunt, 129 N. C. 686; May v. Sloan, 101 U. S. 231; Bank
of United States v. Norton, 10 Ky. 422; Fl~ckner v.
United States Bank, 8 Wheat. 338; Champion v. Ames,
188 U. S. 321.
Mr. U. S. Webb, Attorney General of the State of California, with whom Mr. Frank English, Deputy Attorney
General, and Mr. Matthew Brady were on the brief, for
appellees.
I. The ownership of a share of stock in a California
agricultural corporation constitutes an interest in agricultural lanids, prohibited to ineligible aliens by the Alien
Land Act. It was the purpose of those who understood.
the situation to prohibit the enjoyment or possession of,
or dominion over, the agricultural lands of the State
by aliens ineligible to citizenship,-in a practical way to
prevent ruinous competition by the Oriential farmer
against the American farmer. Those' who drafted this
legislation fully realized that such competition, working
through -the means of corporate entities, would have the
exact practical effect as in the case- of the identical individuals competing without having been organized in
such'corporate entities.
Shares in corporations in California are, of course, personal property, as that expression is commofily used with
reference to the usual ownership of such shares. But they
represent an interest in the corporation itself; and, if
it owns real property, an interest in that to the extent
of the shares of stock. The'legal title is in the corporation, but as an agency for the real owners,-the stockholders. As such owners these ineligible aliens are subject to the control by the State of their interest in the
agricultural lands.
The Japan Treaty might possibly be held to guarantee
the right of this ineligible alien to own or inherit shares

FRICK v. WEBB.
326

Opinion of the Court.

in an ordinary commercial corporation engaged in trade or
commerce, where no interest in the agricultural lands
of California- was involved. The courts have held that
there is inherent in the States the power so to control
their lands. Of what value would this be if 1he prohibited
purpose might be accomplished through the mechanical
device. of a corporation? See the definitions of "land"
in the Washhigton law involved in Terrace v. Thompson [ante, 197]. If this California corporation were dissolved, under § 400 of the Civil Code, the directors would
become trustees, with 'full powers to sell all the assets.
If the best interests of the stockholders required it, the
agricultural land could be divided among them. The
statute considers the stock as much an interest in land as
is a leasehold interest.
Appellants urged before.the District Court that § 3 of
the act practically denies to ieligible aliens the right to
hold any stock in any California corporation, because
almost all of such corporations are "authorized to acquire,
possess, enjoy or convey agricultural land." We are concerned, however, only with the facts as here presented.
This particular corporation owns agricultural lands and
no other properties of said corporation are described in
the bill of complaint.
II. The treaty does not protect the ineligible alien
appellant in acquiring the shares of stock because of
their having certain attributes of personal property.
IAl. The Fourteenth Amendment does not protect
either the ineligible alien appellant or the citizen appellant in their' dealing with the shares of stock in this
case on account of said shares having certain attributes
of personal property.
MR. JusTicE BuTLR delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a suit brought by the appellants to enjoin'the
above,-named Attorney General and District Attorney

332

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

from enforcing the California Alien Land Law,1 submitted by the initiative and approved by the electors,
November 2, 1920, on the grounds ,that it is in conflict
with the due process and equal protection clauses of
the Fourteenth Amendment, and with the treaty between the United States and Japan.
Appellants are residents of California. Frick is a citizen of the United States and of California. Satow was
born in Japan of Japanese parents and is a subject of
the Emperor of Japan. Frick is the owner of 28 shares
of the capital stock of the Merced Farm Company, a
corporation organized under the laws of California, that
owns 2,200 acres of farm land in that State. Frick desires to sell the shares to Satow and Satow desires to buy
them. By the complaint, it is alleged in substance that
the appellees have threatened to and will enforce the act
against appellants if Frick sells such stock to Satow, and
will institute proceedings to escheat such shares to the
State as.provided in the act; that, but for the provisions
of the act and such threats, Frick would sell and Satow
would buy the stock. And it is averred that the act is
so drastic and the penalties attached to its violation are
so great that appellees are deterred from carrying out
the sale, and that unless the court shall determine its
validity in this suit, appellants will be compelled to submit to it whether valid or invalid.
Appellants applied for an interlocutory injunction to
restrain appellees during the pendency of the suit from
instituting any proceeding to enforce the act against appellants. The application was heard by three judges as
provided in § 266 of the Judicial Code. The motion was
denied, and the case is here on appeal from that order.
'The substance of the portions of the act which are material in
this case is prirted in the margin of Webb v. O'Briea, decided this
day, ante, 319.

FRICK v. WEBB.
326

333

Opinion of the Court.

In Porterfieldv. Webb, ante, 225, and Webb v. O'Brien,
decided this day, ante, 313, we held that the act does
*not conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment or with the
treaty between the United States and Japan. In the case
first mentioned, we held that the act prohibits the leasing
of agricultural land by citizens of the United States to
a Japanese alien, and in the latter that it prohibits the
making of a cropping contract between a citizen and a
Japanese alien.
The treaty does not grant permission to the citizens
or subjects of either of the parties in the territories of
the other to own, lease, use or have the benefit of lands
for agricultural purposes, and, when read in the light of
the circumstances and negotiations leading up to its. consummation, the language shows that the parties respectively intended to withhold. a treaiy grant of that privilege. Terrace v. Thompson, ante, 197; Same v. Same,
274 Fed. 841, 844, 845. The applicable provision of § 3
of the act. is: Hereafter all ineligible aliens "may
acquire shares of stock in any

.

.

.

corporation that

is or may be authorized to acquire, possess, enjoy or
convey agricultural land, in the manner and to the extent
and for the purposes prescribed by any treaty
. .
and not otherwise." The provisions of the act were
framed and intended for general application and to limit
the privileges of all ineligible aliens in respect of agricultural lands to those prescribed by treaty between the
United States and the nation or country of which such
alien is a citizen or subject. The State has power, and
the act evidences its purpose to deny to ineligible aliens
permission to own, lease, use or have the benefit of lands
within its borders for agricultural purposes. Webb v.
O'Brien, supra. "As the State has the power
to prohibit, it may adopt such measures as are reasonably
appropriate or needful to render exercise of that power
effective." Crane v. Campbell, 245 U. S. 304, 307, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

263 U. S.

cases cited; Hebe Ca. v. Shaw, 248 U. S. 297, 303. It
may forbid indirect as well as direct ownership and control of agricultural land by ineligible aliens. The right
"to carry on trade" given by the treaty does not give
the privilege to acquire the stock above described.' To
read the treaty to permit ineligible aliens'to acquire such
stock would be inconsistent with the intention and purpose of the parties. We hold that the provision of § 3
above referred to does not conflict with the Fourteenth
Amendment or with the treaty.
The order appealed from is affirmed.
MR. JusncE MCREYNOLDS and MR. JusTICE BRANDEIS
think there is no justiciable question involved and that
the case should have been dismissed on that ground.

MIR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

STREET, SUING ON BEHALF OF HIMSELF AND
ALL OTHER SEAMEN ENGAGED IN INTERSTATE AND FOREIGN COMMERCE BY SEA,
ETC. v. SHIPOWNERS' ASSOCIATION OF THE
PACIFIC COAST ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No.- 156.

Argued November 15, 1923.-Decided November 26, 1928.

Plaintiff, alleging that defendants, as organizations of shipowners,
controlled all American vessels in the merchant service operating between the ports of the Pacific Coast- in the United States,
and between such ports and foreign ports, and collectively employel all seamen engaged in that commerce, attacked the regula-

tions adopted by defendants to govern such employments, upon the

