TERRACE v. THOMPSON.
193

197

Syllabus.

the legal custody and under the control of the ward[en of
the Leavenworth penitentiary, as required by § 3 of 'the
act and the terms of the parole authorized thereby. His
claim that his term expired in 1917 before he was retaken
and while he was serving sentence at Joliet cannot be
sustained, and we hold that it had not expired in January,
1920, at the time of the action of the board. Under § 6,
the board was authorized at any time during his term of
sentence in its discretion to revoke the order and terminate the parole, and to require him to serve theremainder
of the sentence originally imposed without any allowance
for the time he was out on parole.
The judgment of the Circuit Court 'of Appeals is
reversed, and the case is remanded to the District Court
with directions that the respondent, Arthur Corall, be
restored to the custody of the warden of the Tnited
States penitentiaryat Leavenworth, Kansas.

TERRACE ET AL. v. THOMPSON, ATTORNEY
GENERAL OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

No.' 29.

Argued April 23, 24, .19I.--Dccided November 12, 1923.

1. A Washington statute (c. 50, Laws 1921,) disqualifies aliens who
have not in good faith declared intention to become citizens of'
the United States from taking or holding interests in land -in
the State for farming or other purposes not excepted, and provides that upon the making of such prohibited conveyance the
land shall be forfeited to the State and the grantors be subject to
criminal punislment, and the alien also, if he fail to disclose the
nature and extent of his interest. Citizens owning land in Washington and an alien Japanese, desirous of' consummating a lease
to the alien for farming, sued to.enjoin the state'attorney general
from taking criminal and forfeiture proceedings, as he threatened

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Appellants.

263 U. S.

if the lease were made, alleging that the restriction violated
the federal and state constitutions and conflicted with a treaty
with Japan. Held, that the suit was within the equity jurisdiction
of the District Court. P. 214.
2. State legislation withholding the right to own land in the State
from aliens who have not in good faith declared their intention to become citizens of the United States, does not transgress
the due process or equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment as applied to those aliens who, under the naturalization laws of Congress, are ineligible to citizenship, or as applied to
citizens who desire to lease their land to such aliens. P. 216.
Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S.33, distinguished.
3. The treaty between the United States and Japan of February
21, 1911, 37 Stat. 1504, in granting liberty to the citizens and
subjects of each party "to enter, travel and reside in the territories
of the other, to carry on trade, . . . to own or lease and
occupy houses, manufactories, warchouses and 'shops, . . . to
lease land for residential and commercial purposes, and generally
to do anything incident to or necessary for trade upon the same
terms as native citizens or subjects," does not include the right
to own, lease, or have any title to or interest in land for agricultural purposes, and the Washington statute above cited is not
in conflict with it. P. 222.
4.1
As determined by the Supreme Court of the State, the Washington statute above cited is not -inconflict with § 33, Art. II, of the
state constitution. P. 224.
274 Fed. 841, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing
a bill brought by the appellants to enjoin the attorney
general of Washington from enforcing the state Alien
Land Law.
Mr. James B. Howe, with whom Mr. E. H. Guie and
Mr. Dallas V. Halverstadt were on the briefs, for appellants.
I. The case is within the equity jurisdiction. Ex'parte
Young, 209 U. S. 123; Raich v. Truax, 219 Fed. 273;
Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33; Buchanan v. Warley, 245

U. S. 60.

TERRACE v. THOMPSON.
197

Argument for Appellants.

II. The state constitutional provision defines all disabilities of aliens respecting lands, and the legislature had
no power to add thereto.
III. The act takes the property of the parties without
due process of law, in that it prohibits the alien from
following a common occupation of the community, and
makes it a criminal offense for the landowners to avail
themselves of his services in any capacity other than of a
mere wage earner, and prohibits them from making a lawful use of their property. Butchers' Union Co.v. rescent
City Co., 111 U. S. 746; Barbierv. Connolly 113 U. S. 27;
Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S.678; Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356;
Coppage v. Kansas, 236 U. 8. 1; Truad/v. Raich, 239
U. S. 33; Adams v. Tanner, 244 U. S. 590.
If a citizen desires to employ an alien as superintendent
of his agricultural operations, and the alien is willing to
perform these duties, such a ontraet cannot be prohibited by the legislature. The compensation to'be paid
for such services is a matter of contract between the
parties; it might be fixed at a percentage of the receipts
resulting from such operation. It is equally clear that a
citizen landowner, absenting himself from the scene of his
agricultural operations, may lawfully contract with an
alien to carry on the operations in the name of the landowiner and for his use, and to account for the money received; and that the compensation of the alien may be a
stipulated sum or a percentage of the receipts, as the
parties agree. Now, suppose the landowner to enter into
a contract by which the alien agrees to farm the land and
pay .the landowner a stipulated sum as his share of the
profits. Can it 'besaid that the alien is any the less engaged in working as a farm hand than he would be in any
of the preceding'illustrations? If it be suggested that hi
the last case an .estate in land is created, the -obvious
answer is that the Supreme Court of-the State, in TibbaliV.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Appellants.

263 U.S.

Iffland, 10 Wash. 451, has held that a lease does not
create an estate in land. The further obvious answer is
that to create a legal distinction between the two acts is to
relegate substance to form, contrary to all of the decisions
of this Court on constitutional questions. See Tieton
Hotel Co. v. Manheim, 75 Wash. 641; O'Brien v. Webb,
279 Fed. 117..
The,-,prohibition of the act is contrary to the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, because it
is, is effect, a prohibition of the right of an alien to engage in one of the common occupations of life. The applicability of the due process clause to' the right of the
citizen landowner is no less clear. The Terraces acquired this property prior to the passage of the act, at a
time when it might lawfully be leased to a Japanese, but
the act now prohibits this by severe penalties. Their
right to use their property in a lawful way, and enjoy
its fruits, has been proscribed.
Each of the parties may urge the invalidity of the act
from the viewpoint of the other. New York CentralR. R.
Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188; Mountain Timber Co. v.
Washington, 243 U. S. 219; Truax v. Raich, 239 U.'S.
33; Buchana" v. Warley, 245 U. S. 60.
IV. The a: violates the equal protection clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment, in that it makes a classification
which bears no reasonable relation to a legitimate legislative end. Buchanan v. Warley, 245 U. S. 60.
TLe act divides aliens into two classes, namely, those
who may, And those who may not, become citizens of the
United States, extending to the former all rights of citizens
with respect to real estate, upon the filing of a declaration
of intention, while barring the latter class absolutely, because none of them can at any time in good faith file a
declaration of intention. Excepting rights of the State (1)
to prohibit the ownership of lands within its border, there
being no treaty to the contrary, Chiracv. Chirac,2 Wheat.

TERRACE v. THOMPSON.*
197

Argument for Appellants.

259; Hauenstein v. Lynham, 100 U. S. 483; DeVaughn
v. Hutchinson, 165 U. S. 565; Clarke v. Clarke, 178 U. S.
186; Blythe v. Hinckley, 180 U. S. 333; (2) to limit the
right to take the common property of the State, such as
game and fish, to citizens of the State, McCready v. Virginia, 94 U. S. 391; Patsone v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S.
138; (3) to employ none but citizens on public work,
Atkin v. Kansas, 191 U. S. 207; Heim v. McCall, 239
U. S. 175; and (4) to limit the right of the franchise to
citizens of the State, Yick Wa v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356;
aliens are within the equal protection clause as fully as
citizens. Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339; Yick Wo v.
Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; Fong Yue Ting v. United States,
149 U. S. 698; Wong Wing v. United States, 163 U. S.
228; United States v. Wong Kim Ark, 169 U. S. 649;
American Sugar Refg. Co. v. Louisiana, 179 U. S. 89;
Truax v. Raich, 239 U. $.33; Buchanai v. Warley, 245
U. S. 60; R& Tiburcio Parrott, 1 Fed. 481; Ho Ah Kow
v. Nunan, 5 Sawy. 552; Re Ah Fong, 3 Sawy. 144; State
v. Montgomery, 94 Me. 192; Templar v. Board, 131 Mich.
254; Opinion of Justices, 207 Mass. 601; Commonwealth
". Titcomb, 229 Mass. 14.
The legislature being powerless to discriminate against
aliens in favor of citizens and to classify upon the ground
of alienage, how can it in reason be said that it may
nevertheless discriminate against some aliens in favor of
others, or classify aliens among themselves?
It is, of course, true that Congress may permit all aliens,
or any class of aliens, less than all, to be naturalized, 'for
whatever reason may seem to it sufficient or wise, being
bound by no constitutional limitation o4 the subject.
United States v. Wong Kim Ark, 169 U. S. 649. But it
must be remembered that, in the matter of admittiAg
aliens to naturalization, Congress was dealing with a
political subject, and not a property right. The act in'
question deals not with political rights, but with property

202

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Arguinent for, Appellants.

263 U. S.

rights, because, at common law, and in the State of Washington, prior to the enactment in question, aliens had the
absolute right to lease real estate for a reasonable term,
that is, a term sufficiently short to have no incident whatever of ownership, direct or indirect. 1 R. C. L. p. 823, §
33; Winston v. Morrison, 18 Wash. 664. In view of this,
it is apparent that the act of Congress cannot be used as
the basis of the classification attempted in the act of the
State.
Game and fish are the property of the State, within the
plenary power of the legislature,, and their taking may be
prohibited to all persons who are not citizens of the State,
yet, in Re Ah Chong, 6 Sawy. 45, a statute of California
prohibiting all aliens incapable of becoming electors of
the State from fishing in the waters of the State, was held
violatiye of the equal protection clause and the treaty
with China. This case was cited with approval in San
.Mateo v. Southern Pacific Ry. Co., 15 Fed. 722; United
States v. Balsara,180 Fed. 694; Re TakaiMaru, 190 Fed.
45; Raich v. Truax, 219 Fed. 273; Tragesser v. Gray, 73
Md. 251; Commonwealth v. Cosick,.36 Pa. Co. C-t. Rep.
637; Harperv. Galloway, 58 Fla. 255. Contra: Commonwealth v. Hanna, 195 Mass. 262. See also State v. Savage,
96 Ore. 53; Poon v. Miller, 234 S.W. 573; Estate of Yano,
188 Cal. 645.
If every. foot of land within the State of Wasnington
should pass into the ownership or posse sion of aliens, "as
imagined by the court below, then little could be said in
defense of the act as an expression of representative government. But the assumptions which are permissible to
the legislature, when enacting a rule of conduct, do not.,
include such a theoretical possibility. Again, the act of
government forcing on a resident within its jurisdiction
-_a condition which cauges'him to lack an interest in and
,power effectually to work for the welfare of the State,
and then classifying him on the ground of the nece'ssary

TERRACE v. THOMPSON.
197

Argument for Appellants.

result of that condition, does not square with the doctrine of American fair play. The statement of the lower
court that a difference, however arbitrary, might be availed
of as a ground of classification by a State, bound by the
equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, is
directly contrary to the decisions of this Court.
The only legitimate end to be accomplished by the act
in question is insuring that the rights in or to real estate,
mentioned in the act, shall be exercised only by those persons who* adhere and are attached to, and respect, our
government and its institutions. Aliens of the proscribed
class, resident in the State, may fulfill this requirement as
completely as the most patriotic citizen in the State, but
they are nevertheless proscribed by the act. No means
are afforded by which the ultimate fact, which is the legitimate end of such legislation, can be determined, and the
question is forever foreclosed by thestatute, irrespective
of the fact. See Smith v. Texas, 233 U. S.630.
It cannot be said that the subjects of Russia and Turkey
are attached to or respect the American Government or
its institutions; or that the admission to citizenship of the
Zulu, the Kaffir, the cannibals of the Congo and the tribes
of Ashantee and Dahomey, contribute to the success and
preservation of our government and civilization. China
has been a republic for some years and has been recognized
as such by our government, but the Chinese cannot be.
admitted to citizenship, and hence are denied the right.
of other aliens to lands in the State of Washington.
Japan stands among thleforemost nations today, not only
in civilization, Accomplishment, civic pride, but in all those
iiational atti'ibutes which make her one of the great
recogiiized powers. Her natonals, resident in America,
are notably-law-abiding and industrious, and actuated by
civic pride ivhich well might be emulated by American
citizens. Many of them have been residents of the State
for years, have made it their permanent homes. -

2O4

OCTOBER TERM, 192.
Argument for Appellants.

263 U. S.

When an act, which concededly must have a substantial
relation to the determination of the existence or absence
of adherence and attachment to and respect for American institutions and the American Government, so utterly
fails to accomplish that purpose, how can it be said that
it is other than an arbitrary fiat formulated in utter disregard of the facts?
The vice of this act is that it makes a class within a
class. State v. Julow, 129 Mo. 103; Connolly v. Union
Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540; Gulf, Colorado & S. F.
By. Co. v. Ellis; 165 U. S. 150; Cotting v. Kansas City
Stock Yards Co., 183 U. S. 79; McFarlandv. American
Sugar Refg. Co., 241 U. S.79. A valid classification must
have a reasonable relation to a legitimate end of government, and a classification which has no tendency to the accomplishment of that purpose is void.
White men, black men, red men, and brown men are
very different, and there is a vast difference between a
man of wealth and a poverty-stricken man, but a rule of
conduct based upon ,such differences would be clearly
invalid. Gulf, Colorado & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S.
150; Tanner v. Little, 240 T3. S. 369; Constantini v.
Darwin, 102 Wash. 402.
V. The impossibility of compliance with the act by a
Japanese frees him from the obligation to comply. Endlich, Interpretation of Statutes, § 441; Bishop, Non-contract Law, § 156; Bishop, Contracts, § 595.
VI. The act is contrary to Art. I of the existing treaty
between th6 United States and Japan, in that it prohibits
Japanese subjects, resident in the State, from carrying
on therein trade, from leasing land for commercial purposes and from doing the things necessary or incident to
trade upon the same terms, as native citizers or subjects.
The treaty should be interpreted frankly and liberally to
avoid invidious' distinctions.
This alien being engaged in wholesale and retail trade
in farm products, producing the farm products is a com-

TERRACE v. THOMPSON.
197

205

Argument for Appellee.

mercial purpose and is incident to or necessary for trade
therein. As to the meaning of"the term "trade ", see
Schooner Nymph, 1 Sumn. 517; May v. Sloan, 101 U. S.
231; Colby v. Dean, 70 N. H. 591; Jackson v. Town of
Union, 82 Conn. 266; State v. North, 160 N. C. 1010;
Smith v. Cooley, 65 Cal. 46; Finnegan v. Knights of
Labor Bldg. Assn., 52 Minn. 239. These authorities show
that the term "trade" is not always given a narrow
meaning, but that its meaning is determined according to
the apparent intention of the parties to the instrument
in which it is used.
Mr. L. L. Thompson, Attorney General of the State of
Washington, with whom Mr. E. W. Anderson was on the
brief, for appellee.
I. It is submitted that there is no jurisdiction in equity;under Boise Water Co. v. Boise City, 213 U. S. 276; Singer
Sewing Machine Co. v. Benedict, 229 U. S. 481; Dalton
Adding Machine Co. v. Virginia, 236 U. S. 699; Cavanaugh v. Looney, 248 U. S. 453. Neither can the jurisdiction be sustained on account of the severity of the penalty, under Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123. See Tanner
v. Little, 240 U. S. 369.
II. Power to prohibit leases of this character was not
denied by the state constitution. This Court is bound to
accept the construction of that constitution adopted by
the.highest court of that State.
III. The argument that the transaction in question
cannot be prohibited, under the Fourteenth Amendment
assumes that the case is to be determined entirely by the
general rules which obtain in ordinary police power cases.
Even though that assumption be accepted the legislative
action under consideration is sustainable.
The argument fails to distinguish between the particular thing here involved and the average occupation
in which an alien might desire to engage; and is based

206

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Appellee.

263 U. S.

upon too broad a conception of the scope of the due process clause with reference to aliens, as applied in Truax
v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33.
The validity of the particular restriction now before
the Court if the act be considered as an ordinary police
measure, depends upon its relation to the public welfare,
and is not determined by any announced conclusions -of
this Court with respect to the rights of aliens to follow
other and different occupations. Concretely, ,the question is whether the Court can say that the public welfare
could not be injuriously affected by the leasing of real
property to persons who owe to the State and Nation no
obligations of allegiance.
While the common law cannot justify the denial of a
constitutional right, the fact that both the common law
and the statute are in accord affords a cognate reason
why the statute should be sustained. The public policy
of prohibiting the alien ownership of real property, except in very limited cases, has been an outstanding principle of the common law almost since its inception. Coke
Upon Littleton, Bk. 1-2b; 1 Black. Com. 372; 2 Kent.
Com., 14th ed., 53-64; Kerr, Real Property, 215 et seq.;*
Tiffany, Real Property, 2350; 1 Stimson's Am. St. Law,
6013; 1 Stephens, Com. on Law of England, 330-376;
Sedgewick, Trial of Title, 226; 1 Washburn, Real Property, 131; Halter v. Nebraska, 205 U. S.34; Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch, 226-U..S. 192; German Alliance Ins.
Co. v. Lewis, 233 U. S.389; Central Lumber Co. v. South
Dakota, 226 U. S.157; Noble State Baik v. Haskell, 219
U. S. 104; dacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S.11. The
application of this rule to the question of the desirability
of allowing aliens to possess dominion over the soil, will
show that thepreponderant public opinion of the country
has always been opposed to this, and that this opinion
has been particularly intensified in recent years. [Citing
Wheaton, Int. Law, 5th ed., "1: 138, note, and numerous

TERRACE v. THOMPSON.
197

Argument for Appellee.

state statutes.] Congress has always limited the right
to appropriate the unoccupied public domain to citizens
or to persons who have filed declarations of intention to
become such. Rev. Stats., § 2289. See, also the acts
respecting ownership of land in the Territories, and
especially in Hawaii. 29 Stat. 618; 31 Stat. 154. *It
appears that aliens are not permitted to own real property,
in Japan. DeBecker's Annotated Civil Code of Japan,
vol. 1, pp. 7, 238, 242.
This course of legislation indicates a uniform popular
view that the public welfare is directly affected bythe
alien ownership of realty. It is particularly noteworthy
that the most drastic action in this regard has been taken
by those States in which there are found large bodies of
aliens who are not permitted by Congress to become
naturalized. Presumably, .this legislation is the result of
experience and of a more intimate knowledge of local
conditions than the Court can obtain by the exercise of
its judicial knowledge. Fallbrook¢ Irrigation District v.
Bradley, 164 U. S. 112, 160.
This Court has consistently recognized the power of the
States with respect to the ownership of land by aliens.
Fairfax'sDevisee v. Hunter'- Lessee, 7 Cr. -603; Chirac v.
Chirac, 2 Wheat. 259; Orr v. Hodgson, 4 Wheat. 453;
Hauenstein.v. Lynhan, 100 U. S. 483; Atlantic & Pacific
R. R. Co. v. Mingus, 165 U. S. 413; Taylor v. Benham., 5
Row. 233; United States v. Repentigny, 5 Wall. 211;
Blythe v. Hinckley, 180 U. S. 333; Truax v. Raich, 239
U. S. 33; Geofroy v. Riggs, 133 13. S. 258; Donaldson v.
State, 182 Ind. 615; 22 R. C. L. 83; 2 C. J. 1048; Jones
v. Jones, 234 U. S. 615. The commofi law rule was in
accord with the law of nations as recognized by all civi"lized countries. Wheaton, Int. Law, bth ed., 132; Foelix,
Droit International Priv, § 9; Vattel, Law of Nations
(Chitty's ed.) p. 177; Coke Upon Littleton, Bk. 1-2b;
1 Black. Com. (Cooley's ed.) p. 669. If the power to pro-

-

208

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Appellee.

263 U. S.

hibit the holding of the fee simple title by an alien rests
in the police power, then the same rule would, of course,
apply to l1ases. The prosperity of the State must rest
in large measure upon obligations incident to citizenship
and national allegiance. The possession of the soil by
persons who recognize no such obligations but who are
*bound only by specific statutory mandates thus has a
direct relation to the public welfare. The importance
of this is more marked in a nation whose governmental
power is restricted by constitutional limitations than in an
autocratic community. The fact that there is no relation
between-the employment of aliens in ordinary transitory
occupations and the public welfare by-no means compels
the same conclusion where there is involved sovereignty
over the soil, a thing upon whi ch our political existence
may well depend. The contention that because the situations have a surface similarity and that therefore the
Fourteenth Amendment operates in the same degree in
both instances, is simply another one of the oft-repeated
'attempts to define and limit the police power by specific
definition and limitation. This. Court has always consistently refused to do this. Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S.
113. The -police power is not restricted to emergency
-regulations, such as health measures, but extends to meas"ures designed to subserve the public welfare and prosperity. Barbierv. Connolly, 113 U, S. 27; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co. v. Illinois, 200 U. S. 561; Central Lumber Co. v. South Dakota, 226 U. S. 157. The
owhership of large parcels of realty by aliens may be dangerous to the public welfare of a State for many possible
reasons. Unless the Court can see that the reasons for
the law are illusory, the legislative action must be sustained.
It will probably be said in response to this that some of
these reasons, such as the economic competition of foreign labor, might have been urged in support of the act

TERRACE v. THOMPSON.
197

Argument for Appellee.

declared invalid in Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33. We
think that possibility would not dispose of the question.
Once within our borders, an alien cannot be deprived of
the right to live, hnd to live must labor or be supported
by the charity of others. An interference with that right
under the police power is, therefore, subject to certain
limitations, the exact nature of which need not be specifically. designated. The Arizona statute applied to all
occupations, irrespective of their nature. The practicaleffect, as pointed out in the opinion, was to exclude aliens
from the State,-a subject entrusted to Congress,
In the field of agriculture the American and Oriental
cannot compete, The possible result of such a condition
would be that in the course of time, in certain sections of
the country, at least, all lands might pass to these classes
of aliens. The people of the State would thenibeentirely
dependent for their very existence upon alien races who
recognize to the State or Nation no 'ther obligations tkan
those forcibly imposed.
Whether, under the laws of Washington, a lease creates
an interest in real estate, is not material. It can make no
differen e whether a lease be viewed' as an interest in
realty or as personal property. But leases have always
been regarded in Washington as conveying an interest in
land.
This, however, is not an ordinary -police power case.
The power exercised is broader than exists over the right
of a citizen to follow the ordinary pursuits of life; it
need not be justified by concrete instances of apprehended
dangers, but should simply be recognized, as one of the
necessary incidents of governmental existence., Every
writer on the law of nations and all civilized countries
have recognized its existence since the beginning of history. It is a part of the sovereignty of i State, and of a
kind, we submit, never intended to be taken away by
the Fourteenth Amendment.
74,08°-24-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Appellee.

263 U.S.

IV. Equal protection of the laws. The mere statement
of the cause for the exercise of the power in this instance
- would seem to prevent any question of classification from
arising, because the statute includes the entire field which
occasioned the exercise of the power. The justification
for the act under the police power does not rest upon the
racial characteristics, or upon the idea that the excluded
classes may not be law abiding and industrious. The regulation is occasioned by the legislative view that persons
who are not at least morally bound by obligations of citizenship should not be permitted to obtain control of a
thing so vital to the political existence of a State as is the
land. The question of whether certain persons should be
permitted to assume those obligations is entirely legislative, and consequently immaterial here. It is sufficient
that Congress has refused to extend those privileges to
certain races. It can make no difference whether their
refusal to recognize those obligations is occasioned by deficiencies in their character or by an act of Congress.
The result is the same in either case in so far as the public
welfare of the State is concerned; that is to say, a thing
upon which the State depends for its existence passes into
the hands of persons who recognize no voluntary obligations to it.
The police power of the State extends to all subjects
which affect the public welfare and the alleged fact that,
if the- National Government had acted differently, the
occasion for the exercise of the power would not have
arisen, is of no relevancy. This factor marks the distinction between the case of Truax v. Raich, supra; Yick Wo
v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, and various decisions of state
and lower federal courts holding invalid, attempts to deprive aliens of the right to engage in various occupations
and the case at bar.
Declarants in good faith are included in the same class
as citizens, because they' have taken the-preliminary steps

TERRACE v. THOMPSON.
197

211

Opinion of the Court.

looking to citizenship and presumably will, in due course,
attain that citizenship. The fact that, to a greater or
less extent, the same danger may be common to two
classes of persons would not for that reason render a regulation direpted at one class only, void. Patsone v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 138; Central Lumber Co. v. South
Dakota., 226 U. S. 157; Miller v. Wilson, 236 U. S. 373;
Keokee C6ke Co. v. Taylor, 234 U. S. 224; International
Harvester Co. v. Missouri, 234 U. S. 199. There is an
obvious difference between the service to the State to be
expected from a person who has been permitted in a
formal way to declare his intention to abandon his allegiance to anoth.:" nation, and one who has not taken that
step.
V. The act is not in conflict with the treaty.
MR. JUSTIce BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
Appellantsi brought this suit to enjoin the Attorney
General of Washington from enforcing the Anti-Alien
Land Law of that State, c. 50, Laws, 1921, on the grounds
that it is in conflict with the due process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment; with the
treaty between the United States and Japan, and with
certain provisions of the constitution of the State.
The appellants are residents of Washington. The Terraces are citizens of the United States and of Washington.
Nakatsuka was born in Japan of Japanese parents and is a
subject of the Emperor of Japan. The Terraces are the
owners of a tract of land in King County which is particularly adapted to raising vegetables, and which for a
number of years had been devoted to that and other
agricultural purposes. The complaint alleges that
Nakatsuka" is -a capable farmer and will be a desirable
tenant of the land; that the Terraces desire to lease their
land to him for the period of five years; that he desires to
accept such lease, and that the lease would be made but

212 ,

2OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

for the act complained of. And it is alleged that the
defendant, as Attorney 'General, has threatened to and
will take steps to enforce the act against the appellants
if they enter into such lease, and will treat the leasehold
interest as forfeited to the State, and will prosecute the
appellants criminally for violation of the act; that the act
is so drastic and the penalties attached to its violation are
so great that neither of the appellants may make the lease
even to test the constitutionality of the act, and that,
unless the court shall determine its validity in this suit,
the appellants will be compelled to submit to it,' whether
valid or invalid, and thereby will be deprived of their
-property without due process of law and denied the equal
protection of the laws.
The Attorney General made a motion to dismiss the
amended complaint upon the ground that it did not state
any matters of equity or facts sufficient to entitle the
appellants to relief. The District Court granted the
motion and entered a decree of dismissal on the merits.
The case is here on appeal from that decree.
Section 33 ' of Article II of the Constitution of Washington prohibits the ownership of land by aliens other
than those who in good faith have declared intention to
became citizens of the United States, except in certain
Section 33. The ownership of lands by aliens, other than those
who in good faith have declared their intention to beconfe citizens
of the United States, is Itrohibited in this State, except where
acquired by inheriance, under mortgage or in good faith in the
ordinary course of justice in the collection of debts; and all coniveyances of land hereafter made to any alien directly or in trust for
such alien shall be void: Provided, That the provisions of this
section'shall not apply to lands containing valuable deposits of minerals, metals, iron, coal, or fire-clay,'and the necessary land for mills
and juanhinery.to' be used in the development thereof and the manufacture of the prQducts therefrom. Every corporation, the majority
of the capital stock of, which is owned by aliens, shall be considered
an alien for the purposes of this prohibition.

TERRACE v. THOMPSON.
Opinion of the Court.

197

instances not here involved. The act - provides in substance that any such alien shall not own, take, have or
hold the legal or equitable title, or right to any benefit of
any land as defined in the act, and that land conveyed
to or for the use of aliens in violation of the state constitution or of the act shall thereby be forfeited to the State.
And it is made a gross misdemeanor, punishable by fine
or imprisonment or both, knowingly to transfer land or
the right to the control, possession or use of land to such
an alien. It is also made a gross misdemeanor for any
such alien having title to such land or the control,.possession or use thereof, to refuse to disclose to the Attorney
General or the prosecuting attorney the nature and extent
of his interest in the land. The Attorney General and the
prosecuting attorneys of the several counties are charged
with the enforcement of the act.
-"
Section

1. In'this act, unless the context otherwise requires,

(a) "Alien"

does not include an alien who has in good faith

declared his intention to become a citizen of the United States, but
does include all other aliens and all corporations and other organized
groups of persons a majority of whose capital stock is owned or
controlled by aliens or a majority of whose members are aliens;
(b) "Land" does ,not include lands containing valuable deposits
of minerals, metals, iron, .coal or fire-clay or the necessiry land for..
mills and machinery to be used in the development thereof and the
manufacture of the products therefrom, but does include every other
kind of land and every interest there.n and right to the control,
possession, use, enjoyment, rents, issues or profits thereof.
(d) To "own" means to have the legal or equitable title to or the
righk to any benefit of;
(e) "Title" includes every kind of legal or equitable title;
Section 2. An alien shall not own land or take or hold title thereto.
No person shall take or hold land or title to land for an alien. Land
now held by or for aliens in violation of the constitution of the state
is forfeited to and declared to be the property of the state. Land
hereafter convej'ed to or for the use of aliens in violation of the
constitution or of this act shall thereby be forfeited to and become
the property of the state.

214

OCTOBER TERM, .1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

1. The Attorney General questions the jurisdiction of
the court to grant equitable relief even if the statute be
unconstitutional. He cbntends that the appellants have
a plain, adequate and speedy remedy at law; that the
case involves but a single transaction, and that, if the
proposed lease is made, the only remedy which the State
has, so far as civil proceedings are concerned, is an escheat
proceeding in which the validity of the law complained of
may be finally determined; that an acquittal of the
Terraces of the criminal offense created by the statute
would protect them from further prosecution, and that
Nakatsuka is liable criminally only upon his failure to
disclose the fact that he holds an interest in the land.
The unconstitutionality" of a state law is not of itself
.ground for equitable relief in the courts of the United
States. That a suit -in equity does not lie where there
is a plain, adequate and complete remedy at law is so well.
understood as not to require the citation of authorities.
. But the legal remedy must be as complete, practical and
efficient as that which equity could afford. Boise Artesian
Water Co. v. Boise City, 213 U. S. 276, 281; Walla Walla
City V. Walla Walla Water Co., 172 U. S. 1, 11, 12.
Eqiity jurisdiction will be exercised to enjoin the
threatened enforcement of a state law which contravenes
the rederal Constitution wherever it is essential in order
effectually to protect property rights and the rights of,
persons against injuries otherwise irremediable; and in
such a case a person, who as an officer of the State is
clothed. with the duty of enforcing its laws and who
* threatens and .is about to commence proceedings, either
civil or criminal,'to enforce such a law against parties
affected, may be enjoined from such action by a federal
couit of equity. Cavanaugh v. Looney, 248, U. S. 453,
456; Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33, 37, 38. See also Ex
parte Young, 209 U. S. 123., 155, 162; Adams v. Tanner,
244.JJR-S:--Q, 592; qGeene.xr Louisville & Interurban

TERRACE v. THOMPSON.
197

Opinion of the Court.

R. R. Co., id. 499, 506; Home Telephone & Telegraph Co.
v., Los Angeles, 227 U. S. 278, 293; Philadelphia Co. v.
Stimson, 223 U. S. 605, 621; Western Union Telegraph
Co. v. Andrews, 216 U. S. 165; Dobbins v. Los Angeles,
195 U. S. 223, 241; Davis & Farnum Manufacturing Co.
v. Los Angeles, 189 U. S. 207, 217.
The Terraces' property rights in the land include the
right to use, lease and dispose of it for lawful purposes
(Buchanan v. Warley, 245 U. S. 60, 74), and the Con.stitution protects these essential attributes of property
(Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 391), and also protects
Nakatsuka in his right to earn a livelihood by following
the ordinary occupations of life. Truax v. Raich, supra;
Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U. S. 390. If, as claimed, the
state act is repugnant to the due process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment, then its
enforcement will deprive the owners of their right to
lease their land to Nakatsuka, and deprive him of his
right to pursue the occupation of farmer, and the threat
to enforce it constitutes a continuing unlawful restriction
upon and infringement of the rights of appellants, as to
which they have no remedy at law which is as practical,
efficient or adequate as the remedy in equity. And assuming, as suggested by the Attorney General, that after
the making of the lease the validity of the law might be
determined in proceedings to declare a forfeiture of the
property to the State or in criminal proceedings to punish
the owners, it does not follow that they may not appeal
to equity for r*ief. No action at law can be initiated
against them until after the consummation of the proposed lease. The threatened enforcement of the law
deters them. In order to -obtain a remedy at law, the
owners, even if they would take the risk of fine, imprisonment and'loss of property, must continue to suffer deprivatidn of their right to dispose of or lease their hind
to any such alien until one is found who will join them

216

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

in violating the terms of the enactment and take the risk
of forfeiture. Similarly Nakatsuka must continue to be
deprived of his right to follow his occupation as farmer
until a land owner is found who is willing to make a. forbidden transfer of land and take the risk of punishment.
The owners have an interest in the freedom of the alien,
ai.d he has an interest in their freedom, to make the lease.
The 8tate act purports to operate directly upon the consuinmtion of the proposed transaction between them,
and the threat and purpose of the Attorney General to
enforce the punishments and forfeiture prescribed prevent
each from dealing with the other. Truax v. Raich, supra.
They are not obliged to take the risk of prosecution, fines
and imprisonment and loss of property in order to secure
an adjudication of their rights. The complaint, presents
a case in which equitable relief may be had, if the law
complained of is shown to be in contravention of the
Federal Cohstitution.
2. Is the act repugnant to the due process clause or the
equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment?
Appellants contend ihat the act contravenes the due
process clause in that it prohibits the owners from making
lawful disposition or use of their land, and makes it a
criminal offense for them to lease it to the alien, and prohibits him from following the occupation of farmer; and
they contend that it is repugnant to the equal protection
clause in that aliens are divided into two classes,-those
who may and those who may not become citizens, one
class being permitted, while the other is forbidden, to
own land as defined.
Alien inhabitants of a State, as well as all other persons
within its jurisdiction, may invoke the protection of these
clauses. Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, 369; Truax'
v. Raich, supra, 39. The Fourteenth Amnendment, as
against the arbitrary and capricious or unjustly discriminatory action of the State, protects the owners in their

TERRACE v. THOMPSON.
197

217

Opinion of the Court.

right to lease and dispose of their land for lawful purposes
and the alien resident in his right to earn a living by following ordinary occupations of the communitk, but it
does not take away from the State those powers of police
that were reserved at the time of the adoption of. the Constitution. Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S.27, 31; Mugler
v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 663; Powell v. Pennsylvania,
127 U. S. 678, 683; In re KemmIer, 136 V. S. 436, 449;
Lawton v. Steel, 152 U. S. 133, 136; Phillips v. Mobile,
208 U. S.472, 479; Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U. S.610,
622, 623. And in the exercise of such powers the State
has wide discretion in determining its own public policy
and what measures are necessary for its own protection
and properly to promote the safety, peace and good order
of its people.
And, while Congress has exclusive jurisdiction over immigration, naturalization and the disposal of the public
domain, each State, in the absence of any treaty.provision
to the contrary, has power to deny to aliens the right to
own land within its borders. Hauenstein v. Lynham,
100 U. S. 483, 484, 488; Blythe v. Hinckley, 180 U. S.
,333, 340. Mr. Justice Field, speaking for this Court
(Phillipsv. Moore, 100 U. S. 208) said (p. 212):
"By the common law, an alien cannot acquire real
property by operation of law, but may tak6 it by act of
the grantor, and hold it until office found; that is, until.
the fact of alienage is authoritatively established by a
public officer, upon an inquest held at the instance of the
government,"
In F'irfax's Devisee v. Hunter's Lessee, 7 Cranch, 603, 609, 619,
620, it was said, per Story, J.:- "It is clear by the common law,
that an alien can take lands by purchase, though not by descent; or,
in other words, he cannot take by the act of law, but he may by the
act of the party.

.

.

. In the language of the ancient law, the

alien has the capacity to take, but not to hold. lands, and they may
be seized into the hands of the sovereign." See also 1 Cooley's
Blackstone (4th ed.) 315, *372; 2 Kent's Comnmentaries (14th ed.)
80. *54.

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

State legislation applying alike and equally to , 1.
aliens, withholding from them the right to own land, cannot be said to be capricious or to amount to an arbitrary
deprivation of liberty or property, or to transgress the
due process clause.
This brings us to a consideration of appellants' contention that the act contravenes the equal protection clause.
That clause secures equal protection to all in the enjoyment of their rights under like circumstances. In re
Kemmler, supra; Giozza v. Tiernan, 148 U. S. 657, 662.
But this does not forbid every distinction in the law of a
State between citizens and aliens resident therein. In
Truax v. Corrigan,257 U. S. 312, this Court said (p. 337):
"In adjusting legislation to the need of the people of
a State, the legislature has a wide discretion and it may
be fully conceded that perfect uniformity of treatment of
all persons is neither practical nor desirable, that classification of persons is constantly necessary.
Classification is the most inveterate of our reasoning processes. We can scarcely think or speak without consciously or unconsciously exercising it. It must therefore
obtain in and determine legislation; but it must regard
real resemblances and real differences between things, and
persons, and class them in accordance with their pertinence to the purpose in hand."
The rights, privileges and duties of aliens differ widely
from those of citizens; and those of alien declarants differ substantially from those of nondeclarants. Formerly
in many of the States the right to vote and hold office
was extended to declarants, and many important offices
have been held by them. But these rights have not been
granted to nondeclarants. By various acts of Congress,'
'Act of Mhrch 3, 1863, c. 75, 12 Stat. 731; Act of April 22, 1898,
c. 187, 30 Stat. 361; Act of January21, 1903, c. 196, 32 Stat. 775;
Act of June 3, 1916, c. 131, §§ 57, 111, 39 Stat. 197; Act of Mak 18,
1917, c. 15, § 2; Act of July 9; 1918, c. 143; Act of August 31, 1918,
c. 166, 40 Stat. 76, 884, 955.

TERRACE v. THOMPSON.
197

219

Opinion of the Court.

declarants have been made liable to military duty, but
no act has imposed that duty on nondeclarants.

The

fourth paragraph of Article I of the treaty invoked by
the appellants, provides that the citizens or subjects of

each shall be exempt in the territories of the other from
compulsory military service either on land or sea, ,i

the

regular forces, or in the _national guard, or in the militia;
also from all contributions imposed in lieu of personal
service, and from all forced loans or military exactions or,
contributions. The alien's formally declared bona fide

intention to renounce forever all allegiance and fidelity
to the sovereignty to which he lately has been a subject,
and to become a citizen of the United States and perma-

nently to reside therein' markedly distinguishes him from
an ineligible alien or an eligible alien who has not so
declared.
By the statute in question all aliens who have not in
good faith declared intention to become citizepas of the
United States, as specified in § 1 (a), are called "aliens,"
and it is provided that they shall not "own" "land," as
defined in plauses (d) and (b) of § 1 respectively. The
class so created includes all, but is not limited to, aliens
not eligible to become citizens. Eligible aliens who have
not declared their intention to become citizens are included, and the act provides that unless declarants be adnmitted to citizenship within seVen years after the declaration is made, bad faith will ,be presumed. This leaves
the class permitted so to own land made up of citizens
and aliens who may, and who intend to, become citizens,
and who in good faith have made the declaration required by the naturalization laws. The inclusion of good
faith declarants in the same class with citizens does not
unjustly discriminate against aliens who are ineligible or
'Act of June 29, 1906, c. 3592, 34 Stat. 596, as amended, Act of June
25, 1910, c. 401, 36 Stat. 829.

220

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

against eligible aliens who have failed to Aeclare their
intention. The classification is based on eligibility and
purpose to naturalize. Eligible aliens are free white persons and persons of African nativity or descent.' Congress is not trammeled, and it may grant or withhold the
privilege of naturalization upon any grounds or without
any reason, as it sees fit. But it is not to be supposed
that its acts defining eligibility are arbitrary or unsupported by reasonable considerations of public policy.
The State properly may assume that the considerations
upon which Congress made such classification are substaritial and reasonable. -Generally speaking, the natives
of .European countries are eligible. Japanese, Chinese
and Malays are not. Appellants' contention that the
state act discriminates arbitrarily against Nakatsuka and
other -ineligible aliens because of their race and color is
without foundation. All persons of whatever color or
race who have not declared their intention in good faith
to become citizens are prohibited from so owning agricultural lAnds. Two classes of aliens inevitably result
from the naturalization laws,-those who may and those
who may not become citizens. The rule established by
Congress on this subject, in and of itself, furnishes a
reasonable- basis for classification in a state law withholding from aliens the privilege of land ownership as
defined in the act. We agree with the court below (274
Fed. 841, 849) that:
.."It is obvious that one who is not a citizen and cannot
become one lacks an interest in, and the power to effectually work for the welfare of, the state, and, so lacking,
the state may rightfully deny him the right to own and
lease real estate within its boundaries. If one incapable
of citizenship may lease or own real estate, it is within the
'Act of July 14, 1870, c. 254, § 7, 16 Stat. 256, as amended, Act of
February 18, 1875, c. 80, 18 Stat. 318; Ozawa v. United States, 260
U. S.178; United States v. Thind, 261 U. S.204.

TERRACE v. THOMPSON.
197

221

Opinion of the Court.

realm of possibility that every foot of land within the
state might pass to the ownership or possession of noncitizens."
And we think it is clearly within the power of the State
to include nondeclarant eligible aliens and ineligible aliens
in the same prohibited class. Reasons supporting discrimination against aliens who may but who will not
naturaliz'e are obvious.
Truax v. Raich, supra, does not support the appellants'
contention. In that case, the Court held to be repugnant
to the Fourteenth Amendment an act of the legislature of
Arizona making it a criminal offense for an employer of
more than five workers at any one time, regardless of
kind or class of work, or sex of workers, to employ less
than eighty per cent. qualified, electors or native born
citizens of the United States. In the opinion it was
pointed out that the legislation there in question did not
relate to the devolution of real property, but that the
discrimination Was imposed upon the conduct of ordinary
private enterprise covering the entire field of industry
with the exception of enterprises that were relatively
very small. It was said that the right to work for a living
in the common occupations of the community is a.part of
the freedom which it was the purpose of the Fourteenth
Amendment to secure.
In the case before us, the thing forbidden is very different. It is not an opportunity to earn a living in common
occupations of the community, but it is the privilege of
owning or controlling agricultural land within the State.
The quality and allegiance of those who own, occupy and
use the farm lands within its borders are matters of highest importance and affect the safety and power of the
State itself.
.The Terraces, who are citizens, have no right safeguarded by the Fourteenth Amendment to lease their land
to aliens lawfully forbidden to take or have such lease.

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

The state act is not repugnant to the equal protection
clause and does not contravene the Fourteenth Amen,ment.
3. The state act, in our opinion, is not in conflict with
the treaty 7 between the United States and Japan. The
preamble declares it to be "a treaty of commerce and
navigation ", and indicates that it was entered into for
the purpose of establishing the rules to govern commercial
intercourse between the countries.
The only provision that relates to owning or leasing
land, is in the first paragraph of Article I, which is as
follows:
"The citizens or subjects of each of the High Contracting Parties shall have liberty to enter, travel and reside in'
the territories of the other to carry on trade, wholesale
and retail, -to, own or lease and occupy houses, manufactories, warehouses and shops, to employ agents of their
choice, to lease land for residential and commercial purposes, and generally to do anything incident to or necessary for trade upon the same terms as native citizens or
subjects, submitting themselves to the laws and regulations'there established."
For the purpose of bringing Nakatsuka within the protection of the treaty, the amended complaint alleges that,
in addition to being a capable farmer, he is engaged in the
business of trading, wholesale and retail, in farm products
and shipping the same in intrastate, interstate and foreign commerce; and, instead of purchasing such farm.
products, he has produced, and desires to continue to produce, his own farm products for the purpose of selling
them in such wholesale and retail trade, and if he is prevented from leasing land for the purpose of producing
farm products for such trade he will be prevented from
engaging in-;trade and the incidents to trade, as he is
authorized to do under the treaty.
'37 Stat. 1504-1509.

TERRACE v. THOMPSON.
97

Opinion of the Court.

To prevail on this point, appellants must show conflict
between the state act and the treaty. Each State, in the
absence of any treaty provision conferring the right, may
enact laws prohibiting aliens from owning land within its
borders. Unless the right to own or lease land is given
by the treaty, no question of conflict can arise, We think
that the treaty not only contains no provision giving Japanese the right to own or lease land for agricultural purposes, but, when viewed in the light of the negotiations
leading up to its consummation, the language shows that
the high contracting parties respectively intended to withhold a treaty grant of that right to the citizens or subjects
of either in the territories of the other.. The right .to
"carry on trade" or "to own or lease and occupy houses,
manufactories, warehouses and shops ", or "to lease land
for residential and commercial purposes ", or "to do anything incident to or necessary for trade" cannot be said
to include the right to own or lease or to have any title to
or interest in land for agricultural purposes. The enumeration of rights to own or lease for other specified
purposes impliedly negatives the right to own or lease
land for these purposes. A careful reading of the treaty
suffices in our opinion to negative the claim asserted by
appellants that it conflicts with the state act.
But if the language left the meaning of its provisions
doubtful or obscure, the circumstances of the making of
the treaty, as set forth in the opinion of the District
Court (supra, 844, .845), would resolve all doubts against
the appellants' contention. The letter of Secretary of
State Bryan to Viscount Chinda, July 16, 1913, shows.
that, in accordance with the desire of Japan, the right to
own land was not conferred. And it appears that the
right to lease land for other than residential and com--mercial purposes was deliberately withheld by substituting
the words of the treaty, "to lease land for residential and
commercial purpqses" for a more comprehensive clause

OCTOBER TERM,. 1923.
Dissent.

263 U. S.

contained in an earlier draft of the instrument, namely,
"to lease land for residential, commercial, industrial,
manufacturing and other lawful purposes."
4. The act complained of is not repugnant to § 33 of
Article II of the state constitution.
That section provides that "the ownership of lands by
aliens . . . is prohibited in .this State . .
Appellants assert that the proposed lease of farm land for
five years is not " ownership ", and is not prohibited by
that clause of the state constitution and cannot be forbidden by the state legislature. That position is untenable. In State v. O'Connell, 121 Wash. 542, a suit for
the purpose of escheating to the State an undivided onehalf interest in land, or the proceeds thereof, held in trust
for the benefit of an alien, a subject of the British Empire,
decided since this appeal was taken, the Supreme Court
of Washington held that the statute in question did not
contravene this provision of the constitution of that
State. The question whether or not a state statute conflicts with the constitution of the State is settled by the
decision of its highest court. Carstairs v. Cochran, 193
U. S. 10, 16. This Court "is without authority to riview
and revise the construction affixed to a! state statu'te as to
a state matter by the court of last resort of the State ".
Quong Ham Wah Co. v. Industrial Commission, 255 U. S.
445, 448, and cases cited.
The decree of the DistrictCourt
is affirmed.
McR YNLDS and MR. JusTicE BRANDEIS
think there is no justiciable question involved and that
the case should have been dismissed on that ground.
MR. JUsTIc,

MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND took no part in the cQ' sidera-

tion or decision of this case.

