BANCO MEXICANO v. DEUTSCHE BANK.

591

Statement of the Case.

BANCO MEXICANO DE COMMERCIO E INDUSTRIA ET AL. v. DEUTSCHE BANK; MILLER,
ALIEN PROPERTY CUSTODIAN; ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.

No. 361. Argued January 9, 1924.-Decided January 21, 1924.
1. A suit in equity brought under § 9 of the Trading with the Enemy
Act, against the Alien Property Custodian, the Treasurer of the
United States and a foreign corporation, to establish a debt of the
corporation to the plaintiff, as a claim against its property'seized
under the act and held by the Custodian and the Treasurer, is in
effect a suit against the United States, and can therefore be maintained only under the conditions laid down in the act. P. 603:
2. Where money was lent by liquidators of a Mexican bank, at New
York, to a German bank, and 'deposited by the borrower to its
general credit with a trust company in that city, and, after the
outbreak of the late war, before the loan fell due, the deposit with
other assets of the borrower was taken over by the Alien Property

Custodian, held, that suit to collect the loan could not be maintained by the Mexican bank under the above statute, since the debt
was not one that "arose with reference to the money or other
property held." P. 599.
3. The fact that, under the law of New York, the debt, when due,
might have been collected by attachment of the property, had
this not been seized under the statute, did not alter the case.
P. 602.
4. Legislative history of this statute, including remarks of a congressman explaining the bill, held not to determine its construction.
P. 601.
289 Fed. 924, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the Court of Appeals of, the
District of Columbia affirming a decree of the Supreme
Court of the District, which, on motion, dismissed the
bill in a suit to enforce a claim under the Trading with
the Enemy Act.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Appellants.

263 U. S.

Mr. Henry W. Taft for appellants.
In no sense, either etymologically or grammatically,
does the description that ' debt "arose with reference
to the money or other property," convey the idea of
a definite legal relatioh, recognized in our system of law,
of the debt to the " money or other property." The
words are merely those of general description. If it had
been intended to connote accepted legal concepts, appropriafe language could easily have been selected. In a
colloquial, businuss, etymological and grammatical sense,
there are many cases where it may with accuracy be said
that a debt has been incurred with reference to certain
money or property, as, for instance, where by the ordinary
processes of the courts the indebtedness could be collected out of such money or property belonging to the
debtor. With equal accuracy' the same language might
be applied to a case where the creditor expected that
a debt would, in the ordinary and current course of business, be paid out of money or property which was being
employed in the busihess in connection with which the
debt was incurred, and where the creditor relied on the
continuing availability of such money or property as the
-basis of the credit. In other words, it is reasonable to
look upon ".with reference to" as equivalent to "with
an eye toward."
The existing if incohoate right of the Banco Mexicano
to sue upon the debt of the Deutsche Bank in the courts
of the State of New York, where the loan was made
and was payable, was a p6tential or executory remedy
which needed only the presence in that jurisdiction of
property belonging to the Deutsche Bank, to convert it
into an effective legal security; 'and such security was
actually available. It is not a violent assumption that it
was the very existence of the money and property in this
country, and, therefore, the likelihood of the payment of
the 'debt, that 'Were the inducements for the loan and

BANCO MEXICANO v. DEUTSCHE BANK.
591"

593

Argument for Appellants.

created the credit of the Deutsche Bank on which the
Banco Mexicano relied. In a very practical sense, under
the foregoing circumstances, therefore, the debt was incurred with reference to the money -or property of the
Deutsche Bank 'which came into the hands of the
Custodian.
The Government is-practically forced into the position
of claiming that debts do not arise "with reference to
the money or other property" except (i) where proceeds
of a sale can be .traced into the property, or (ii) where
a contract for the purchase or sale of specific property
has been made and there can be some remedy for compellhig its delivery, as in a suit for specific performance,
or (iii) where there is some kind of specific lien, legal or
equitable, upon the property, or (iv) where title is based
on physical identity and there may be recovery of possession as, for instance, by writ of replevin. But it is obvious that if the debt referred to in sub-section (e) of § 9
is confined to such cases, an intention must be attributed
to Congress to destroy existing remedies under laws of
the several States, where the property could, before the
act, have been reached in their courts in satisfaction of
the debt upon judgment and execution. Such a purpose
would be inconsistent with the liberal policy inaugurated
by the general provisions of the original act as amended
in 1919. 41 Stat. 35.
In the absence of some purpose clearly appearing from
the language of the act itself or from its legislative history,
there is a strong presumption that Congress did not intend
by using such ambiguous language, not only completely to
reverse the liberal policy of the earlier act, but also to
deprive creditors of the remedies which they would otherwise have had for the collection of their debts in both the
state and the federal courts. See Kohn v. Kohn, Inc.,
264 Fed. 253, 255; Fischer v. Palmer, 259 Fed. 355. . By
sub-section (f) of § 9 of, the act, property in the hands of
74308°*-24---38

594

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Appellants.

263 U. S.

the Custodian was to continue to be free from "lien, attachment, garnishment, trustee process, or execution,"
and was not to be subject to "any order or decree of any
court." 41 Stat. 980. Unless sub-section (e) is interpreted
in accordance with our contention, the prohibition of subsection (f) results in what is in the nature of confiscation,
and that is to be avoided. If, however, the elastic language of sub-section (e) is interpreted so as to extend to
the allowance of claims which could, except for the passage of the act, have been prosecuted to judgment in the
courts of one of the States and have been satisfied out of
the property found in such State, "we avoid a violent disturbance of property rights and existing remedies, and
there would be excluded from the benefit of the act only
those persons having no business or residence connectlon
with this country and possessing no specific claim to or
lien upon the- money or property in the hands of the
Custodian.
The intention of*Congress was to embrace by the provisions of subsection (e) cases other than those where
there was a definite legal "interest, right, or title" in the

seized property. Both the counsel for the Government
and the Court of Appeals have felt the pressure of this

canon of interpretation, but in attempting to meet its
requirements they find themselves logically forced to
maintain that a debt which "arose with reference to the
money or other property" mist have been a debt which
was related to such money or property in such a way that
it could be satisfied by pursuing a right in the nature of a
right in rem to, or a lien upon, the seized property.
In any conceivable case where a remedy exists either
in law or in equity, to proceed against and secure pos-

session of the money or property itself, it has been provided for in the first part of sub-section (a), which permits
a person "claiming any interest, right, or title in " the

seized property to maintain a suit in equity for its re-

BANCO MEXICANO v. DEUTSCHE BANK. 595
59i

Opinion of the Court.

covery. How can it be reasonably said that by sub-section
(e) Congress intended to limit cases where debts could be
collected out of the seized property to those where under
sub-section (a) such property could have been resorted to?
Sub-section (e) vested in a court of equity the power
to determine in each case whether a debt "arose with reference to the money or other property held by the Alien
Property Custodian."
The statute should be interpreted so as to avoid the destruction of neutral rights and remedies, and a contravention of international law.
Our view of the proper interpretation of sub-section (e)
is confirmed by the legislative history of the bill which
became the amending Act of June 5, 1920. This history
is a proper subject for the consideration of this Court.
The rule requiring the strict construction of statutes
authorizing suits against the United States ought not to
have been applied by the court below. The real party
defendant is the Deutsche Bank. United States v. Beebe,
127 U. S.338, 347.
Mr. Assistant to the Attorney General Seymour, with
whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on the brief, for
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Appeal from the decree of the Court of Appeals affirming the decree of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia which dismissed the suit of appellants, brought
in the latter court by them under the Act of Congress
of October 6, 191-7, entitled, "An Act To define, regulate,
and punish trading with the enemy, and for other purposes," as amended June 5, 1920. 40 Stat. 411; 41 Stat.
977.
The Deutsche Bank of Berlin was duly appointed
liquidator of the Banico Mexicano, a banking corp6ration

596

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U.S.

organized under the laws of Mexico, and authorized to
act in the process of liquidation through Elias S. A. De
Lima and Carlos Schulze as the representatives of the
Banco Mexicano. Upon their appointment they proceeded with the liquidation of the affairs of the bank.
By virtue of their appointment and during the period
they were acting as such liquidators, they were authorized to make loans of the assets of the bapk for its account and to collect and, if necessary, to sue for and collect
upon the claim which is the subject of this action.
They as liquidators for and on behalf of the Banco
Mexicano made a loan of 500,000 gold dollars in New
York City on December 15, 1916, to the Deutsche Bank
of Berlin, a banking corporation existing under the laws
of the German Empire, for six months with. interest at
the rite of 5% per annum.
The amount was paid to Hugo Schmidt, the agent of
the latter bank at its place of business in the United States,
and the bank agreed to repay the same in that city on
June 15,-1917, with interest at the rate above mentioned.
Upon receiving that amount, represented by check, the
bank forthwith deposited the same with the Guaranty
Trust Company of New York to the credit of its general
bank account which it then had with that institution.
On April 6, 1917, war was declared between the United
States and Germany. Thereafter, as the appellants are
informed and believe, under the provisions of the Trading"with the Enemy Act and other statutes in such case
made and provided, all moneys, securities and property
owned by the Deutsche Bank in the United States or
held for. it by others were turned over to or seized by the
Alien Property Custodian of the United' States and have
ever since been held by him.
It is averred, on information and belief, that the money
so loaned was never transfeured from the United States
physically or otherwise, but constituted a part of the bal-

BANCO MEXICANO v. DEUTSCHE BANK. 597
591

Opinion of the Court.

ance of the general deposits and securities and other
property in the United States of the bank which were
taken over and seized by the Alien Property Custodian.
The total ai'nount of such balance and the total value of
the securities and. property, are unknown to appellants
but are sufficient, as they are infbrmed and believe, after
the payment and satisfaction of all other claims and demands, fully to pay, satisfy and discharge th e claim and
demand of the appellants arising upon the loan. *
After the loan was made and until its balance, securities and other property were turned over to the-Alien
Property Custodian, the Deutsche Bank continuously
kept in the United States sufficient funds and property
over and above what was necessary to pay and discharge.
all other claims and demands of every kind, to repay the
loan with interest, and *thefunds and securities were kept
in the United States for the express purpose and with the
intention by the use thereof of repaying the loan when
it fell due. And the bank would have, in the ordinary
and usual course of business, repaid the same when the
debt fell due, if war had not intervened between the
United States and Germany.
On June 15, 1917, there became due to appellants from
the Deutsche Bank, the amouit of the loan; and it is still
due, although they have made demands for the payment
thereof upon the bank and the Alien Property Custodian.
In pursuance of § 9 of the Trading with the Enemy Act,
the appellants as liquidators and in behalf of the Banco
Mexicano, on or about May 27, 1920, filed with the Alien
Property Custodian a notice of claim, under oath, and in
such form and containing such particulars as was required
by that section and as the Custodian had prescribed, demanding payment of the debt above described, with interest thereon then accrued, by the Custodian, from the
money or other property belonging to the bank, or held
by him or by the Treasurer of the United States.

598

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

On or about the same day a similar application was filed
with the President of the United States. Neither the
President nor the Alien Property Custodian has paid the
debt or the interest thereon.
Appellants aver that since - December 15, 1916, the
Deutsche Bank kept in the United States sufficient cash
and marketable securities over and above its obligations to
enable it to pay the loan and interest, and that the Alien
Property Custodian and Treasurer of the United States
now hold sufficient cash and securities formerly owned
by the bank and s6ized by the Custodian over and
above all claims against the same to pay the debt with
interest.
. Appellants are advised and believe that under the law
of New York State, and in the event of default by the
Deutsche Bank in the payment of the loan, they would
have had,.on June 15, 1917, and ever since, and now have,
a cause of action. against the bank upon which they could
have sued and can now sue, and could have procured, and
can now procure, the issue of a writ of attachment under
which the funds and securities of the bank in New York
City could have been, and now can be, levied upon and
seized and applied in satisfaction of a judgment obtained.
It is averred that by reason of the foregoing facts the
debt of the appellants arose with reference to the money
and other property within the meaning and intention of
subdivision (e) of § 9 of the "Trading with the Enemy
Act ".
A motion to dismiss the bill of appellants was made, the
grounds thereof being: (1) appellants are claimants other
than citizens of the United States, and that the debt which
they are seeking to recover did not arise with reference to
money or any other property held by the Alien Property
Custodian or the Treasurer of the United States under and
pursuant to the terms and provisions of the Trading with
the Enemy Act, as amended.

BANCO MEXICANO v. DEUTSCHE BANK.
591

599

Opinion of the Court.

(2) The appellants have not set forth facts sufficient to
entitle them to equitable relief under § 9 of the Trading
with the Enemy Act, as amended.
The motion was granted and a decree made and entered
dismissing the bill.
Upon the appeal of appellants the decree was affirmed
by the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia., to
review which action this appeal is prosecuted.
The case is in narrow compass. The facts are set forth
in the bill; the law adduced, that is, § 9 as amended, it is
contended, constitutes them grounds of recovery prayed
for and demonstrates the error in the decree appealed
from. We quote it although its pertinent and determining words are few. As passed October 6, 1917, it is as
follows:
"That any person, not an enemy, or ally of enemy,
claiming any interest, right, or title in any money or other
property which may have been conveyed, transferred, assigned, delivered, or paid to the alien property custodian
hereunder, and held by him or by the Treasurer of the
United States, or to whom any debt may be owing from an
enemy, or ally of enemy, whose property or any part thereof
shall have been conveyed, transferred, assigned, delivered,
or paid to the alien property custodian hereunder, and
held by him or by the Treasurer of the United States, may
file with the 'said custodian a notice of his claim under
oath and in such form arld containing such particulars as
the said custodian shall require; and the President, if application is made therefor by the claimant, may, with the
assent of the owner of said property and of all persons
claiming 'any right, title, or interest therein, order the
payment, conveyance, transfer, assignment or delivery to
said claimant of the. money or other property so held by
the alien property custodian or by the Treasurer of the
United States or of the interest therein to which the President shall determine said claimant i. entitled: Provided.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

That no such order by the President shall bar any person
from the prosecution of any suit at law or in equity against
the claimant to establish any right, title or interest which he
may have in such money or other property. If the Presi-,
dent shall not so order within sixty days after the filing of
such application, or if the claimant shall have filed the
notice as above required and shall have made no application to the President, said claimant may, at any time before the expiration of six months after the end of the war,
institute a suit in equity in the district court of the United
States for the district in which such claimant resides,
. . .to establish the interest, right, title, or debt so
claimed."
The amendment of June 5,1920, is as follows: "No
money or other property shall be returned nor any debt
allowed under this section to any person who is a citizen
or subject of any nation which was associated with the
United States in the prosecution of the war, unless such
hation in like case extends reciprocal rights to citizens of
tbe-'nited States; nor in any event shall a debt be allowed
under this section unless it was owing to and owned by
the claimant prior to October 6, 1917, and as to claimants
other than citizens of the United States unless it arose
with reference to the money or other property held by the
Alien Property Custodian or Treasurer of the United
States hereunder." [§ 9(e)].
The amendment provides that: "Nor in any event
shall a debt be allowed under this section unless it was
owing to and owned by the claimant prior to October 6,
1917, and as to claimants other than citizens of the United
States unless it arose with reference to the money or other
property held by the Alien Property Custodian or Treasurer of the United States hereunder."
The italics are ours and mark the words which make the
contioversy. The Court of Appeals regarded them a limitation upon the generality of the section as originally en-

BANCO MEXICANO v. DEUTSCHE BANK. 601
591

Opinion of the Court.

acted-an exception from its indulgence of claimants other
than citizens of the United States unless the debt arose
with reference to the money or other property held by the
Alien Property Custodian or Treasurer of the United
States under the act.
We concur. The condition did not exist in the claimant. The debt did not arise with reference to the money
or property held.. The transaction was an ordinary business one-money borrowed to be repaid at a specified distant date, a deposit of it in the ordinary way and with the
legal result and relation-the creation of debtor and creditor-not a word or act else-not a word or act else giving
the transaction other character or quality. No distinction, indeed, from any other transaction, nothing to give
specification to it or particular remedyr.
But particularity is not necessary, is the contention.
Mere trace of a relation seems, in counsel's view, to satisfy
the requirement of § 9. The definition of the Standard
dictionary is adduced, and from it, it is said, it is reasonable to look upon "with reference to" 'as equivalent to
"with an eye toward." To give this pertinence, necessarily, the eye must see what the statute requires to
be seen-a debt that had fixed some right or title or
equity to the money or other property held by the Alien
Property Custodian or by the Treasurer of the United
States.
In support of counsel's view, the explanation of the
amendment by the congressman in charge of it is quoted
as giving a remedy to a just "debt owed to a citizen of a
friendly nation, that originated with reference to the property which is over here." And further " there would seem
to be no reason in justice or good morals why that property
here should not pay it subject to the limitation that it
must have been a debt that accrued prior to the enactment
of the Trading with the Enemy Act." This is given emphasis of meaning by the contrast of claims of "enemy

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263U3. S.

creditors'; which it was declared "should be collected by
other means than out of this"property here." The views
of the Attorney General were also referred to and the
absence of any recommendation by the Committee on
interstate and Foreign Commerce of an intention "to
make radical changes in the rights and remedies of friendly
aliens as they had been created by the act previously .in
force."
It may be conceded that there is some suggestive
strength in this history, but it is to be remembered that an
act of legislation is not the act of one legislator, and its
meaning and purpose must be expressed in words. If
there be ambiguity in them it is the office of construction
to resolve it. This we think the Court of Appeals exer'ised, and to a right conclusion.
A contention, or rather the support of the main contention, is made by appellants by reference to the New
York statutory law which authorized, it is said, an action
against a foreign corporation-in this case by the Banco
Mexicano against the Deutsche Bank-for the collection
of its note, a writ of attachment and a judgment that could
be satisfied out of the property attashed. And the further
contention is that by § 9, as amended, "non-resident
alien individuals and corporations were accorded broader
rights even than they then enjoyed under the laws of New
York, in that they could collect their indebtedness out of
the property of non-resident alien enemies in the hands
of the Custodian, wherever and however it arose, and
whatever its nature," But this is a conclusion deduced
from the construction put upon § 9 which we think is
untenable.
We repeat, we do not think that the debt arose with reference to the money or other property held by the Alien
Property Custodian.
Therefore, the prayer of the bill of complaint should be
denied. We are constrained to this because we agree with

U. S. v. N. Y. CENTRAL R. R.
591

Argument for the United States.

the Court of Appeals that this suit is in effect a suit
against the United States and all of its conditions must
obtain.
Decree affirmed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration or
decision of the case.
UNITED STATES, INTERSTATE COMMERCE
COMMISSION, NATIONAL COUNCIL OF TRAVELING SALESMEN'S ASSOCIATIONS, ET AL. v.
NEW YORK CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 469. Argued January 9, 10, 1024.--Decided January 21, 1924.
1.. Under the Act of August 18, 1922, amending § 22 of the Interstate
Commerce Act, the rates for interchangeable mileage coupon tickets
must be just and reasonable. P. 609.
2. Where the Commission's conclusion that a reduced rate fixed by it
for such tickets was just and reasonable was contradicted by its
findings of fact and was obviously based ,on a misconception of the
amendment as requiring a reduction, held, that the conclusion was
one of lakv and not binding on the court. Id.
288 Fed. 951, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court which enjoined enforcement of an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission requiring the appellee raihrads to issue
scrip coupon tickets at reduced rates.
Mr. Blackburn Esterlinc, Assistant-to the Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Attorney General Daugherty was
on the brief, for the United States.
Laying hold of the following language of the Commission, "The spirit and the apparent theory of the law is

