OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

263 U1. S.

wholesale dealers that none would trade with any manufacturer who sold to other wholesale dealers competing
with themselves, or to retail dealers competing with their
customers. An act lawful when done by one may become
wrongful when done by many acting in concert, taking on
the form of a conspiracy which may be prohibited if the
result be hurtful to the public or to the individual against
whom the concerted action is directed. Grenada Lumber Co. v. Mississippi,supra,p. 440; EasternStates Lumber Assn. v. United States, supra, p. 614. See also Binderup v. Pathe Exchange, ante, 291.
We conclude that the Raymond Company in threatening to withdraw its trade from the Snider Company exercised its lawful right, and that its conduct did not constitute an unfair method of competition within the meaning of the act. The decree of the Circuit Court of ApAffirmed.
peals is accordingly
WILSON, COUNTY COLLECTOR OF TAXES FOR
THE COUNTY OF MARION, ET AL. v. ILLINOIS
SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 131.

Argued January 3, 1924.-Decided January 14, 1924.

1. When the jurisdiction of the District Court rests solely upon a
claim under the Constitution, the merits are open upon a direct
appeal to this Court. P. 576.
2. A railroad company, alleging that its property had been overvalued by a state board, erroneously and fraudulently, and out
of all proportion to other property, sued the collectors of five
counties, among which the assessment had been apportioned, to restrain them from proceeding in their respective county courts to
collect the taxes. Held, that in view of the many suits involved
and the insuperable difficulty of determining through them the
proper amount and apportionment of the assessment, the plain-

WILSON v. ILL. SO. RY.
574

Opinion of the Court.

tiff's remedy by defense of those proceedings was not an adequate
remedy at law. P. 576.
3. In a suit in the federal court to restrain collection of taxes upon the
ground of fraudulent overassessment, a state statute authorizing
review of assessments by appeal to a state court, but not clearly ap-plicable where fraud is the ground, cannot be accepted as an adequate remedy ousting the equity jurisdiction. P. 577.
Affirmed.

Appeal from a decree of the District Court enjoining
collection of taxes.
Mr. June C. Smith, with whom Mr. FrankF. Noleman,
Mr. Andrew J. Dallstream, Mr. Charles F. Dew, Mr.
Hugh V. Murray,Mr. H. H. House, Mr. Judson E. Harriss
and Mr. Logan F. Hachman were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. George B. Gillespie for appellees.
Mr. Justice IoImrES delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a bill in equity to restrain the collection of taxes
for the years 1917, 1918, 1919 and 1920, upon the track and
rolling stock then belonging to the Illinois Southern Railway Company. It alleges that the property was erroneously and fraudulently overvalued, out of all proportion
to the other taxable property in the State, and invokes the
jurisdiction of the District Court on the ground that the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution is infringed.
It alleges further that the sums that properly could have
been charged, have been paid, that if the additional
amounts demanded could be recovered at all after payment it would be only by a multiplicity of suits against
the taxing bodies of the several counties where the collections are made. It is argued that, in any proceeding at
law in these counties, it would be impossible to secure a
uniform or any adequate readjustment of the total valu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

ation, which is made by a state board, and so that equity
only can afford adequate relief. The bill prays that the
defendants, who are the collectors for five counties, may
be restrained from applying to their respective county
courts for judgments under the summary proceedings provided by statute for the collection of taxes on real estate
(Cahill, Ill. Stat. 1923, c. 120, ยง 191), and that the Court
will determine the aniounts, if any, remaining equitably
due and unpaid. The defendants ultimately relied upon
a motion to dismiss for want of equity. The' District
Court granted an injunction as prayed, and the case is
here on the single question whether the plaintiffs had an
adequate remedy at law. When the jurisdiction of the
District Court rests solely upon a claim under the Constitution, the merits are open on a direct appeal to this
Court. Holder v. Aultman, 169 U. S. 81, 88. Northwestern Laundry v. Des Moines, 239 U.S. 486, 491. McMillan Contracting Co. v. Abernathy, ante, 438.
The appellants rely mainly upon Keokuk & Hamilton
Bridge Co. v. Salm, 258 U. S..122. In that case a bill
charging fraudulent overvaluation was dismissed and the
dismissal was affirmed by this Court on two grounds, that
there was an adequate remedy at law and that the plaintiff had not tendered or offered to pay the amount confessedly due. The latter ground is absent here. As to the
former it seems to us that the present case is to be distinguished. Keokuk & Hamilton Bridge Co. v. Salm
arose upon an assessment of real estate by county assessors
in a single county, as to which the remedies available were
pointed out. Here the assessment was of property in
five counties, by the State Board of Equalization for 1917
and .1918, and by its successor the State Tax Commission
for the two later years. Assuming that in each of the
counties before the tax could be collected a judgment
must be obtained in the county court in a civil suit and
that in such suits the defendants, the present plaintiffs,

WILSON v. ILL. SO. RY.
574

577

Opinion of the Court.

could set up the facts here relied upon, as in the Keokulk
Co.'s Case, not only would those suits be many, but there
would be insuperable difficulty in determining what the
proper assessment against the whole road should be and
in apportioning the due share to the county concerned.
This difficulty would recur in each of the five counties
with not improbably different results in each. It seems to
us that the right of full defence in those suits, if it exists,
is not an adequate remedy at law. Raymond v. Chicago
Union Traction Co., 207 U. S. 20, 38-40.. Kirby-v. Lake
Shore & Michigan Southern R. R., 120 U. S. 130, 134.
We have stated what the appellants relied upon. Perhaps howe-rer it should be added that after the substitution of the State Tax Commission for the Board of Equalization, a provision was made for an appeal from the
Commission to the Circuit Court of the County " for the
purpose of having the lawfulness of such assessment inquired into and determined" upon a record of the evidence and proceedings before it prepared by the Commission, with a further appeal to the Supreme Court.
The statute provides that the remedy by appeal shall not
be construed to be exclusive. Cahill, Ill. Stat. 1923, c.
120, ยง 10, p. 2853. How far such an appeal would be
adequate upon a charge of fraud against the Commission
may be doubted, and the adequacy of a remedy at law
must be clear. Union Pacific R. R. Co. v. Weld County,
247 U. 5. 282, 285, 286.
Decree affirmed.
7-308*-24.----37

