100

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Counsel for Parties.

263 U. S.

warrant a writ of error under the amendment of ยง 237 of
the Judicial Code by the Act of September 6, 1916, c. 448,

just cited. The Supreme Court of the State may have
unduly limited the Act of Congress of March 2, 1805, but
did not dispute its binding effect.
Writs of eftor dismissed.

HEYER, DOING BUSINESS AS T. A. HEYER
DUPLICATOR
COMPANY, v. DUPLICATOR
MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 75. Argued October 15, 16, 1923.-Decided November 12, 1923.
The sale, by the patentee, of a costly and durable copying machine
dependent for its operation on bands of gelatine, which are attached to spools and which cost little and are quickly used up,
implies a right in the purchaser to replace such bands as they wear
out, without further consent of the seller; and their manufacture
and sale for that purpose by another is therefore not an infringement, though the band when used in the combination is covered
by the patent. Wilson v. Simpson, 9 How. 109. P. 101.
284 Fed. 242, reversed.
CERTIORARI

to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals

which reversed a decree of the District Court and directed
one for the plaintiff, the present respondent, in a suit. for
infringement of -a patent.
M!r. Samuel Walker Banning, with whom Mr. Thomas
A. Banning was on the brief, for petitioner.

Mr. George L. Wilkinson, with whom Mr. Henry M.
Huxley was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.

HEYER v. DUPLICATOR MFG. CO.
100

Opinion of the Court.

This is a bill in equity brought by the respondent
against the petitioner alleging the infringement of a patent. The District Court dismissed the bill, but the Circuit Court of Appeals gave the respondent a decree, one
Judge dissenting upon the main point. 284 Fed. 242.
The respondent owns a patent for improvements in multiple copying machines, one element of which is a band of
gelatine to which is transferred the print to be multiplied
and which yields copies up to about a hundred. This
band is attached to a spool or spindle which fits into the
machine.1 Anyone may make and sell the gelatine composition but the ground of recovery was that the defendant made and sold bands of sizes fitted for use in
the plaintiff's machine and attached them to spindles,
with intent that they should be so used. The main question is whether purchasers of these machines have a right
to replace the gelatine bands from any source that they
choose. If they have that right the defendant in selling
to them does no wrong. It is assumed for the purposwi
of argument that the claim is valid and qovers the baod
when used in this combination, since otherwise there
would be nothing to discuss.
Since Wilson v. Simpson, 9 How. 109, 123, it has been
the established law that a patentee has not " a more equitable right to force the disuse of the machine entirely,
on accouht of the inoper.-,iveness of a part of it, than
the purchaser has to 'repair, who has, in the whole of it,
a right of use." The owner when he bought one of these
machines had a right to suppose that he was free to main"The claim relied upon is "42. In a multiple copying machine,
the combination with a machine frame having on one side thereof a
journal bearing and on the opposite side a chuck, of a duplicating
band, and a spool on which said duplicating band is wound, said
spool having at each end a squared chuck-engaging member and a
cylindrical bearing member, whereby said spool is interchangeable
end for end between said- chuck and journal bearing, substantially as
described."

102

OCTOBER TERM,' 1923
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

tain it in use, without the further consent of the seller,
for more than the sixty days in which the present gelatine might be used up. The machine lasts indefinitely,
the bands are exhausted after a limited use and manifestly must be replaced. 9 How. 126. The machine is
costly, the bands are a cheap and common article of commerce. In Wilson v. Simpson, the purchaser was held
free to replace the cutter knives that were the ultimate
tool of the inven'tion. The present case seems to us
stronger in favor of the defendant. The gelatine probably has to be replaced at least as frequently as the cutter
knives and would seem to be less distinctively appropriated to the machine. In Leeds & Catlin Co. v. Victor
Talking Machine Co., (No. 2), 213 U. S. 325, the question
was not of a right to substitute worn out parts but of a
right to use new discs in a talking machine. The authority of Wilson v. Simpson and the cases that have
followed it.was fully recognized and must be recognized
here. We have only to establish the construction of a
bargain on principles of common sense applied to the
specific facts. We cannot doubt what the fair interipretation is and it would not be'affected even if every purchaser knew that the vendor was prepared to furnish new
bands.
Inasmuch as after the present bill had been dismissed
it was reinstated on condition that the plaintiff be lim; ited for recovery of profits or damages t6 the period after
the reinstatement and as the evidence is that the only
spools used since that date came from the plaintiff we
think it unnecessary to make any order touching the
spools.
Decree reversed.

