BINDERUP v. PATHE EXCHANGE.
Syllabus.

BINDERUP v. PATHE EXCHANGE, INCORPORATED, ET AL.
RROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 77. Argued October 16, 1923.-Decided November 1.), 1923.
1. Where jurisdiction of the District Court depends o, the action
arising under a law of the United States, and the court sustains a
motion by the defense for a directed verdict based on the ground
that the plaintiff's petition and opening statement fail to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action within the federal statute
which the plaintiff relies on, the case is not re~iewable directly by
this Court under Jud. Code, § 238, as one in which the jurisdiction
of the District Court was in issue. P. 304.
2. So held, where the trial judge, in a memorandum accompanying
the ruling, indicated his opinion that the motion went to the jurisdiction, erroneously assuming that failure to allege facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action under a federal statute is a jurisdictional defect. P. 305.
3. A complaint setting forth a substantial, as distinguished from a
frivolous, claim under a federal statute presents a case within the
jurisdiction of the District Court as a federal court; and this jurisdiction cannot be made to stand or fall upon the way ohe court
may chance to decide an issue as to the legal sufficiency of the facts
alleged any more than upon the -way it may decide as to the legal
sufficiency of the fr cts proven. P. 305.
4. New Yor= manufacturers and distributors of motion-picture films,
in the regular course of their business, shipped films from that State
to Nebraska and delivered them there to a Nebraska resident, as
lessee under agreements, which by their terms were to be deemed
and construed as New York contracts, and which licensed and
obliged the lessee to exhibit the pictures, for specified periods, in
moving-pictute theatres, reserved rentals to he lessors and provided
for ultimate reshipment by the lessee on advices to he given by
then Held, that the business of the lessors, and their transactions
with thelessee, were interstate commerce, notwithstanding that,, in
accordance with the contracts, the films were delivered to him
through agencies of the lessors in Nebraska to which they were
first consigned and transporled." P. 309.

OCTOBER TERM, 193.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

263 U. S.

5. It does not follow that because a thing is subject to state taxation
it is also immune to federal regulation under the commerce clause.
P. 311.
6. A combination and conspiracy of concerns controlling the distribution of motiom-picture films, to put out of business an exhibitor
of motion picturs who has been procuring his films through agreements made in interstate commerce with members of the combination and can procu1re them in no other way, and to accomplish
this end by illegally -anceling his existing contracts and by refusing
to deal with him in the future, is a restraint on interstate commerce in violation-of the Anti-Trust Act. P. 311.
280 Fed. 301, reversed.

. ERROR to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming, for want of jurisdiction in the District Court, a,
judgment of the latter which,-,dismissed, upon a directed
verdict, an action-for damages under § 7 of the Sherman
Act.
Mr. Dana B. Van Dusen, with whom Mr. C. P. Anderberry, Mr. Nbrris Brown and Mr. Irving F. Baxter were
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
The court below overlooked the following allegations of
the complaint: That the usual course of business was for
the contracts to be made in New York prior to the time
the films left the New York factories; that after the films
reached the Omaha agents, they continued to move from
exhibitor to exhibitor throughout a zone of four States,
and that, since plaintiff was only one of a number of exhibitors in that zone using the same film, it was constantly
crossing state lines and might eqully as well come to him
from another State as from within the State of Nebraska;
that the refusal of defendants to supply plaintiff with
films applied to all films to be manufactured and shipped
in the future from New York to the Omaha agents; and
that the rule which prevented plaintiff frbm leasing films
direct from New York or from any other zone oAce of the
defendants, combined with the concerted refusal of all
business dealings at Omaha, deprived plaintiff of opportunity to purchase films anywhere in the United States.

BINDERUP v. PATHE EXCHANGE.
291

293

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Wagner v. Covington, 251 U. S. 95; American Steel &
Wire Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S. 500; General Oil Co. v.
Crain, 209 U. S. 211; and Bacon v. Illinois, 227 U. S. 505,
relied upon by the court below, involved the constitutionality of state taxation, and are based, upon facts dissimilar to the facts in the cas at bar. In those bases,
the articles of trade were always already inside the State
of the purchaser when the contract of sale was made.
The dissenting opinion below recognizes the similarity
between this case and Swift & Co. v. United States, 196
U. S. 375.
Decisions with regard to state taxation are inapplicable
to the determination of questions arising under the Sherman Act. Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495; Addyston
Pipe Co. v. United States, 175 U. S. 211; Butler Bros. v,
U. S. Rubber Co., 156 Fed. 1; Lemke v. Farmers Grain
Co., 258 U. S. 50; Hump Hairpin Co. v. Emmerson, 258
U. S. 290.
Films moving from New York to plaintiff through the
hands of Omaha agents pursuant to contracts previously
entered into, move in interstate commerce. Caldwell v.
North Carolina, 187 U. S. 622.
Films moving to plaintiff from points in other States
within the Omaha zone, whether moving directly to plaintiff or through the hands of the Omaha agents, move in
interstate commerce.
Even that part of the films which were already in the
State prior to the jexecution of the contracts betiveen
plaintiff ahd the defendants still remained in interstate
commerce. Films are sent to Omaha for purposes of
sale or lease. The local exchange is merely the solicitor
of orders upon behalf of its New York principal. It does
not have the power to enter into contract. Solicitation
and delivery alone take place within the State. The
subsequent movements from hand to hand throughout

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

263 U. S.

the zone are controlled by the nonreside-i't principal, who
at no time surrenders ownership or control over.the film.
The films are nlot "at rest" upon .arrival at Omaha.
See Western Union Tel. Co. v:..Foster, 247 U. S. 105;
Western Oil Co. v. Lipscomb, 244 U. S. 346; Champlain
Co. v. Brattleboro, 260 U. S. 366.
To separate the shipment from New York to Omaha
from the movement from Omaha t .the Nebraska exhibitor, is to look solely to the matter of transportation.
Mere transportation, however, does not constitute trade
and therefore does not constitute commerce, as it must be
understood in a discussion of the Sherman Act. Sales by
branch agencies of packers to purchasers within the same
State constitute interstate commerce under that act.
Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375. See also, s. c.
122 Fed. 529; and Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495.
This case is stronger than the Swift Case, because here the
contracts were with the New York principals rather than
the local agents. The importance of the approval of these
contracts in another State was emphasized in H7,mp Hair-"
pin Co. v. Emnierson, 258 U. S. 290.
If the industry be nation-wide in scope and the principals to the contract reside in different States, the application of the Sherman Act cannot be destroyed by the
forms or technicalities of the original package dbctrine.
Even apart from prior contract, a distributing age: cy
is not a hinal destination but a mere facility. Each picture i- an unique article and may itself be considered the
original pacl-age.'
The dealings between the Omaha agencies and plaintiff
in the same State are ncot purely local matters. Ramsay
Co. v. Associated Bill Posters, 260 U. S. 501; Butler Bros.
v. U. S. Rubber Co., 156 Fed. 1; United States v. Jellicoe
Coal Co., 46 Fed. 432; Gibbs v. McNeely, 119 Fed. 120.
It is unfiecessary to establish that the films at Omaha

BINDERUP v. PATHE EXCHANGE.
29.1

Argument for Defendants in Error.

remained in interstate commerce, since the conspiracy
complained of had a direct effect upon the interstate commerce of bringing films from New York to Omaha, by
rendering it impossible in the future to bring films from
New York for use by plaintiff in Nebraska, thus narrowing the market for the sale of films by foreign manufacturers within Nebraska. Montague & Co. v. Lowry, 193
U. S. 38; and other cases.
It is immaterial whether the interstate commerce
which is affected takes place prior or subsequent to the
intrastate sale. Montague & Co. v. Lowry, supra; United
States v. Reading Co., 226 U. S. 324; United Mine Workers v. Coronado Coal Co., 259 U. S. 344, 410; Knauer v.
United States, 237 Fed. 8; Council of Defense v. International Magazine Co., 267 Fed. 390.
Mr. William Marston Seabury and Mr. Arthur F. Mullen, with whom Mr. Charles B. Samuels, Mr. Elek John
Ludvigh, Mr. S. F. Jacobs, Mr. Saul E. Rogers, Mr. Karl
W. Kirchwey, Mr. Gabriel Hess, Mr. Siegfried F- Hartman, Mr. Oscar M. Bate, Mr. J. Robert Rubin, Mr. John
J. Sullivan and Mr. Eugene N. Blazer were on the brief,
for defendants in error.
I. The judgment of the District Court was reviewable
only under Jud. Code, § 238. United States v. Jahn, 155
U. S. 109; Boston & Maine R. R. v. Gokey, 210 U. S. 155;
Wilson v. Republic Iron Co., 257 U. S. 92.
In the case at bar, where the decision of the District
Court denied its own jurisdiction, it is clear that even if
the -District Court, after deciding that it was without
power to proceed, had assumed to determine other questions incidental to the merits of the controversy described
in the complaint, this Court alone would have had jurisdiction to review the case, because when a court -holds
that it is without power to proceed it is unable thereafter
to determine any other issue involved in the controversy.

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

263 U. S.

True, the judgment of the District Court does not
specify the grounds of dismissal, but its opinion, to which
reference may be made for the purpose of ascertaining
the grounds of the decision (Loeb v. Columbia Township
Trustees, 179 U. S. 472), clearly states them.
Where, as here, the cause is cognizable exclusively by a
federal court, in which federal jurisdiction is invoked
solely upon the ground that the cause is one arising under
a federal statute, .and dismissal results from the failure of
the petition in a fundamental respect to state facts sufficien't to constitute such a cause of action, that judgment
of dismissal deniep the existence of jurisdiction in the
District Court as a federal tribunal and presents a strictly
jurisdictional issue which is reviewable exclusively in this
Court under Jud. Code, § 238. Blumenstock Bros. v. Curtis Pub. Co., 252 U. S. 436; The Steamship Jefferson, 215
U. S. .130; The Ira M. Hedges, 218 U. S. 264; Mitchell
Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania1. R. Co., 230 U. S. 247; Weber
v. Freed, 239 U. S. 325; The Pesaro,255 U. S. 216; The
Carlo Poma, 255 U. S.219. Hart v. Keith Exchange. 262
U. S. 271, distinguished.
II.This Court has no jurisdiction to review the judgment of the District Court except as prescribed in Jud.
Code, § 238. Senej v. Swift & Co., 260 U. S. 146; Union
& PlantersBank v. Memphis, 189 U. S. 71; Newburyport
Water Co. v. Newburyport,'193 U. S.561; Four Hundred
and Forty-three Cans of Egg Product v. United States,
226 U. S. 172; Carolina Glass Co. -. South Carolina,
240 I. S. 305; City of New York v. ConsolidatedGas Co.,
2b3 U. S.219; The Carlo Poma, 255 U. S.219.
The Act of September 14, 1922, amending Jud. Code,
§ 238, known as § 238a, has no application to the case at;
bar. It was passed too late to be of service to the plaintiff
in error, and it clearly does not mean that, after the wrong
court. has gone to judgment on a case, it may then be
shunted into another court for further consideration and
review.

BINDERUP v. PATHE EXCHANGE.,
291

297

Argiment for Defendants in Error.

III. The facts stated in the complaint describe transactions which as a matter of law were l6cal and not interstate and hence the allegations were insufficient in a
jurisdictional respect .to constitute a cause of action.
The individual branch managers of the several corporate defendants were citizens of Nebraska, and they
were not alleged to be enigaged in interstate commerce.
The corporate defendants are in most instances foreign
corporations which are engaged generally in interstate
commerce. But the transactions described in the petition
did not relate to interstate commerce. They concerned
local persons and local things only.
It appears that, pursuant to the established custom of
the trade, the. defendants send a specified quantity of
films to their several exchanges at Omaha, and after the
films reach the exchanges they are. unpacked and stored
at the local offices of the defendants until they begin to
rotate among the exhibitors of Nebraska, incidentally
going into Iowa and South Dakota, but having their situs
at the Omaha exchange, where they become and remain
a part of the general property in Nebraska during their
entire commercial life. When a Nebraska exhibitor wishes
to rent a film from any 6f the defendants, he rents it
from the Omaha exchange, and no interstate transdction
or movement- of the film is involved.
The plaintiff asserted that the defendants controlled
the distribution- of the entire production of films in the
United States, and that no films could be procured from
any. other source that could be used in plaintiff's theatres,
and that no films had ever been produced in the State of.
Nebraska. Notwithstanding this. sweeping assertion, if
the films of the defendants were at rest in their local exchanges when the plaintiff endeavored to rent them, interstate commerce would not be affected by a refusal of
the defendants' agents in Omaha to deliver to the plaintiff in Nebraska.

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

263 U. S.

The plaintiff does not allege that films were sent to
him directly from beyond the State by the defendants.
On the contrary, he says that they were procured by t1.e
defendants from beyond the State and were forwarded to
him by express and parcels post. This means that the
defendants' agents forwarded the films from the Omaha
exchanges to the plaintiff in Nebraska by express and
parcels post.
It is alleged that in leasing films from .their New York
offices defendants "through their branch offices in
Omaha" entered into written and oral contracts with the
plaintiff on the terms described in the written contracts
attached to the petition, and that thereunder the title,
control and right to recall the films was at all times retained by the home offices at New York.
The essential thing which appears from these exhibits
is that deliveries of the films were made by the defendants
to the plaintiff and redeliveries from plaintiff to the defendants entirely at the Omaha branch offices, again conclusively indicating the local character of the transactions.
Even the conspiracy charged was to ruin the plaintiff's
busine's, and, as we have said, the plaintiff's business was
purely local.
When the films reached the exchanges in Omaha they
were at rest and ceased to be in interstate commerce, and
any agreem6nt,.combination or conspiracy by which their
subsequent movements in Nebraska were restricted would
not constitute interstate trade or commerce. Mutual
Film Corporationv. Ohio Industrial Comm., 236 U. S.
230. United States v. United Shoe Machinery Co., 264
Fed. 138, distinguished.
This is not a case "where orders are taken in oie State
for goods to be supplied from another State, which orders
are transmitted to the latter State for acceptance or rejection and filled from stock in that State." which would

BINDERUP v. PATHE EXCHANGE.
291

*Argument for Defendants in Error

constitute interstate commerce. Singer Sewing Machine
Co. v. Brickell, 233 U. S. 304; Crenshaw v. Arkansas, 227

U. S. 389; Brennanv. Titusville, 153 U. S. 289; Caldwell
v. North Carolina,187 U. S. 622; Rearick v. Pennsylvania,
203 U. S. 507; Dozier v. Alabama, 218 U. S. 124; Western
Oil Co. v. Lipscomb, 244 U. S. 346.
We are within the principle of the cases which hold-that property brought from another State and withdrawn from
the carrier and held by the owner with full disposition
becomes subject to the local taxing power notwithstanding
the owner may intend actually to forward it to a destination beyond the State. Bacon v. Illinois, 227 U. S. 504;
American Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S. 500;
Kelley v. Rhoads, 188 U. S. 1; Diamond Match Co. v.
Ontonagon, 188 U. S. 82; Woodruff v. Parham, 8 Wall.
123; Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622; Coe v. Errol, 116
U. S. 517; Pittsburgh& Southern Coal Co. v, Bates, .156
U. S. 577; General Oil Co. v.. Crain,.209 U. S. 211; Browning v. Waycross, 233 U. S. 16; Southern Pacific Co. v.
Arizona, 249 U. S. 472.
. Nor are the films plunged again into interstate commerce by the fact that the ultimate approval of the local
contracts may in most instances rest with the home office
of the defendant companies situated beyond the State, or
by the fact that when the films reach the Omaha exchanges the defendants intend that they may be sent into
Iowa or South Dakota, as the authorities cited show.
The point is that, even though the Nebraska films
might be subject to control by the home offices of the'
defendants, nevertheless that control, even when exerted,
did not result in movements or shipments of the fiNim
resting in Omaha, in interstate commerce.
There is a complete absence of allegation to indite'.that there was 'or could have been any combination or
conspiracy to restrain interstate commerce.
There is nothing but the reiteration of the baseless contention that the defendants combined, and conspired to

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

263 U. S.

put the plaintiff out of business. Ramsay 'Co. v. Associated Bill Posters, 260 U. S. 501, distinguished.
IV. The complaint failed in other r~spects to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action under the
Sherman Act or any other of the anti-trust statutes.
In a case such as this. every essential element of the
court's jurisdiction must not only' affirmatively appear,
but it must appear with substantial certainty and without
--doubt or ambiguity. Blumenstock Bros. v, Curtis Pub.
Co., 252 U. S. 436.
Here, the statements of plaintiff's counsel affimatively
disclosed a case which did not affect or relate to a restraint
of trade or a monopoly of any part of interstate commerce,
* and hence there was and is no cause of action. Oscanyan
v. Arms Co., 103 U. S. 261.
The statement of plaintiff's counsel was in substantial
accord with the allegations of the petition, which were
deficient.
Many authorities sustain the legality of trade association activities involving conduct much more serious than
anything,alleged against the defendants.
The plaintiff has endeavored to allege a conspiracy
among the defendants to restrain interstate trade and
commerce in motion picture films as a result of which
plaintiff was injured. But an entirely different state of
facts is actually set forth. " The only purpose and object
of the conspiracy which may be, said to be well pleaded
is the charge that defendants conspired to-ruin the plaintiff's business and not to restrain interstate trade or commerce.
True, the expression, "In'restraint of trade and commerce among the several States" is used, but these expressions are mere conclusions of law. Witherill.& Dobbins Co. v. United Shoe Mfg. Co., 267 Fed. 950.
Although by itself the charge that the defendants cdnspired to ruin th4 iplaiidtis business might constitute an

BINDERUP v. PATHE EXCHANGE.
291

301

Opinion of the Court.

illegal purpose, -yet, -when stated in conjunction with
facts which show that this was not the purpose of the
alleged concerted action of -the defendants, it becomes
clear that, even if ruination of the plaintiff's business resulted from the acts of the defendants in the protection
of their own business, if these acts were lawful, that result
was a mere incidejit of a lawful purpose, executed by
lawful means and gave rise to no cause of action against
the defendants. American Steel Co. v. American Steel &
Wire Co., 244 Fed. 300.
Moreover, since it appears that; even if everything alleged in the petition were true, no purpose or object unreasonably and directly to restrain interstate commerce
has been shown, the means by which the supposed conspiracy is alleged to have been attained must not onJy
be illegal, but they must directly and unreasonably restrain interstate trade and commerce, otherwise there is
no cause of action.
The means used to effect what in reality was the lawful
object of the defendants, namely, the -protection and
preservation, of their own business, which plaintiff prefers to describe as a conspiracy to ruin his business, are
each and all of them lawful.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This action was brought under the provisions of § 7
of the Act of Congress- of July 2,- 1890, commonly called
the Anti-Trust Act, c, 647, 26 Stat. 210. The complaint
is long, but the allegations necessary to be considered here
may be summarized as follows:Plaintiff in error, a resident of the State of Nebraska.,
hereafter called' the "exhibitor," , owned a moving picture theater at Minden, in that State, and operated as
lessee theaters in other plades, to all of which, including
his own, he supplied moving picture films and advertis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

ing matter connected therewith. In addition; he was in
the business of selecting and distributing to a circuit of
moving picture theaters, films and advertising matter
accompanying them, under agreerients with the various
operators, some twenty or more in number, in variqus
parts of the State.
The corp6rations named as defendants in error, hereafter called the "distributors," were located in the State
of New York, and were there engaged in manufacturing
motion picture films and distributing them throughout the
United States. The method of distribution was to make
public announcement from time to time that films, which
had been mhanufactured and approved, would be released,
and thereupon send them from New York, by express or
parcel post, to agencies in numerous cities for delivery to
exhibitors who hired and paid for their use.
Some of these distributors entered into contracts with
the exhibitor, by the terms of which they leased motion
pictures to him with the right and license to display them
publicly at the theater or theaters named.. The individual
defendants named were managers of branch offices or
agencies for the various distributors at Omaha, Nebraska,
-through which films were distributed to exhibitors in the
States of Iowa, Nebraska, South Dakota and Minnesota.
These contracts by their terms were deemed made in New
York, Were to be construed according to the laws of thaX
State, and provided that deliveries should be made to the
exhibitor through the Omaha branch offices. The exhibitor, upon his part, agreed to accept and publicly exhibit the motion pictures for the periods of time fixed,
for which right he was to pay specified sums. When, the
use' of the pictures was completed according to the contract, they were to be re-shipped on advices given by
the distributors.
The complaint further' alleges that these distributors
control the distribution of all films in the United States

BINDERUP v. PATHE EXCHANGE.
291

Opinion of the Court.

and that the films cannot be procured from others. The
Omaha Film Board of Trade is a Nebraska corporation,
organized for the purpose of promoting good will among
those engaged in the motion picture business and for
other purposes, its membership being limited to one representative from each company or person engaged in the
film business. It is alleged that the exhibitor's business
was successful and profitable and that, the cupidity of
the distributors being thereby aroused, some of them requested a share of his patronage, and, upon his refusal,
made threats to put him out of business by underbidding
and supplying the various theaters constituting his circuit; that the Omaha Film Board of Trade was organized
for the purpose of enabling these distributors to control
prices and dictate terms to their patrons in Nebraska and
other States. It is further alleged that the business of the
exhibitor had grown to large -proportions; that he was
procuring filins from some of the members of the Omaha
Film Board of Trade, but had refused to buy from others,
and that thereby a spirit of hostility was aroused against
him on the part of the latter who thereupon brought
great pressure to induce those with whom he was dealing
to cease doing business with him; that all the defendants
in error thereupon unlawfully combined and conspired in
iestraint of trade and commerce among the several States,
with the purpose and intent of preventing him from
carrying on his. said business and with the intent to ruin
him; that they caused false charges to be made against
him before the Film Board of Trade, and, without his
knowledge or an oplortunity to be heard, placed him.'
upon its .blacklist, of which notice was given to distributors who thereupon refused to transact further business
with him; that those istributors who were not members
of the Film Board of Trade co~perated with and approxed
the action of the. Board and conspired with the others to
ruin the business, -credit and reputation of the exhibitor;

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.'

that, in furtherance of the combination and conspiracy,
the distributors have ever since refused to deal With him
or furnish him with film service and have caused the
unexpired contracts which he held with some of the distributors to be illegally and unlawfully cancelled and that
he has ever since- been and still is deprived of such service. As a result of the foregoing, the exhibitor asked
judgment for three times the amount of damages which.
he had suffered as alleged.
Upon this complaint and an answer the case went to

trial before a jury. After counsel for the exhibitor had
made his opening statement to the jury the defendants in
error moved the coftft for a directed verdict in their favor,
upon the ground "that the petition and opening fail to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action arising
under the Sherman Act, or any act amendatory -thereof."
The court sustained the motion and instructed the jury
to return a verdict for the defendants, which was done.
Thereupon judgment was entered upon the verdict dismissing the cause. In a memorandum opinion the trial
judge states that he had reached the conclusion that the
motion should be sustained upon the grounds: (1) That.
the petition does not show with sufficient clearness that
the complaint is one over which the court has jurisdiction;
.(2) That it fails to show with sufficient clearness any combination or conspiracy sufficient to justify the court in
proceeding further with the trial.
The case was taken by writ of error to the Circuit Court
'f Appeals where the judgment was affirmed for want of
jurisdiction in the District Court. 280 Fed. 301.
First. Defendants in error have submitted a motion to
dismiss. the writ of error here. The statement of the
ground is' somewhat ambiguous, but it is, in substance,.
-that the motion in the trial court attacked the complaint
-for a failure to state a cause of action under the Sherman
"Act; that this donstituted a challenge to the jurisdiction

BINDERUP v. PATHE EXCHANGE.
291

305

Opinion of the Court.

and, consequently, the writ of error should have been
taken directly to this Court. But the motion below in
terms was put upon the ground that the complaint and
the opening statement failed to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action,-not that the court was without jurisdiction,-and it is this motion.that was sustained.
The memorandum, it is true, indicates that the trial judge
was of opinion that the motion for a directed verdict went
to the jurisdiction; but it is apparent that, as to this, he
assumed that an unsuccessful attempt to allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause-of action under a. federal.statute constitutes a jurisdictional defect.
Section 238 of the Judicial Code provides that appeals
and writs of error may be taken from the district courts
direct to this Court "in any case in which the jurisdiction
of the [district] court is in issue." As it has been many
times decided, the jurisdiction neant by the statute is
that of the court as a federal court only, and not its
jurisdiction upon general grounds of law or procedure.
See; for example, Louisville Trust Co. v. Knott, 191
U. S. 225. The contention here seems to be broadly,
that where the cause of action is based upon an act of
Congress, unless the complaint states a case within the
terms of the act the federal court is without jurisdiction.
Jurisdictidn is the power to decide a justiciable controversy, and includes questions of law as well as of fact. A
complaint setting forth a substantial claim under a federal
statute presents a. case within the jurisdiction of the
court as a federal court; and this jurisdiction cannot be
made to stand or fall upon the way the court may chance
to decide an issue as to the legal sufficiency of the facts
alleged any more than upon the way it may decide as to
the legal sufficiency of the facts proven. Its decision either
way upon either question is predicated upon the existence
of jurisdiction, not upon the absence of it. Jurisdiction,
74308-24-20

306

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

as distinguished from merits, is wanting only where the
claieset forth in the complaint is so unsubstantial as to
be frivolous or, in other words, is plainly without color of
merit.. Weiland v. Pioneer IrrigationCo., 259 U. S. 498,
501; Newburyport Water Co. v. Newburyport, 193 U. S.
561, 576; Matters v. Ryan, 249 U. S. 375, 377; Flanders
v. Coleman, 250 U. S. 223, 227; Louisville & Nashville
R. R. Co. v. Rice, 24-7 U. S. 201, 203; Lovell v. Newman
& Son, 227 U. S 412, 421; Denver FirstNational Bank v.
Klug, 186 U. S. 202, 204; Louie v. United States, 254 U. S.
548; Hart v. Keith Exchange, 262 U. S. 271, 273; The
'Fairv. Kohler Die Co., 228 U. S. 22, 25. In that event the
claim of federal right under the statute, is a mere pretence
and, in -effect, is no claim at all. Plainly there is no such
want of substance asserted here. In the case last cited
.this Court said (p. 25):
"We are speaking of a case where jurisdiction is incident to a Federal statutory cause of action. Jurisdiction is authority to decide the case either way. Un-successful as well as successful suits may be brought upon
the act, and a decision that a patent is bad, whether on
the facts or the law, is as binding as one that it is good.
See Fauntleroy v.. Lum, 210 U; S. 230,- 235. No doubt
if it should appear that the plaintiff was not really relying
upon the patent law for his alleged rights, or if the claim
of right were frivolous, the case might be dismissed. In
the former instance the suit would not really and substantially involve a controversy within the jurisdiction of
the court, Excelsior Wooden Pipe Co. v. Pacific Bridge
Co., 185 U S. 282, 287, 288, and in the latter the jurisdiction would not be denied; except possibly in form. Deming v. Carlisle Packing Co., 226 U. S. 102, 109. But if
the plaintiff really makes a substantial claim under an
act of Congress there is jurisdiction whether the claim
ultimately be held good or bad."
In Lamar v. United States, 240 U. S. 60, this Court
dealt with the question whether the failure of an indict-

BINDERUP v. PATHE EXCHANGE.
291

307

Opinion of the Court.

ment to charge a crime against the United States presented a question of jurisdiction within the meaning of
§ 238 of the Judicial Code. The Court held in the
negative, saying (p 64):
"Jurisdiction is a matter of power and covers wrong
as well as right decisions. Fauntleroyv. Lum, 210 U. S.
230, 234, 235. Burnet v. Desmornes, 226 U. S. 145, 147-.
There may be instances in which it is hard to say whether
a law goes to the power or only to the duty of the court;
but the argument is pressed too far. A decision that a
patent is bad, either on the facts or on the law, is as binding as one that it is good. The Fair v. Kohler Die Co.,
228 U. S. 22, 25. And nothing can be clearer than that
the District Court, which has jurisdiction of all crimes
cognizable under the authority of the United States
(Judicial Code of March 3, 1911, c. 231, § 24, second), acts
equally within its jurisdiction whether it decides a man to
-be guilty or innocent under the criminal law, and whether
its decision is right or wrong. The objection that the
indictment does not charge a crime against the United
States goes only to the merits of the case."
Our attention is directed to certain decisions of this
Court which are said to suport the contention of defendants in error. We think their effect is misapprehended. In The Steamship Jefferson, 215 U. S. 130, the
case had been dismissed below expressly for want of
jurisdiction. It was asserted in support of a motion to
dismiss the appeal that while in form of expression the
suit was so dismissed, the action of the lower court was,
"in substance, alone based upon the conclusion that the
facts alleged were insufficient to authorize recovery, even
although the cause was within the jurisdiction of the
court." It was held, however, that the conclusion of the
District Court was one which went to the jurisdiction,
not to the sufficiency of the allegations of the bill; and
there is no suggestion in the opinion that the two prop-

308

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U.S.

ositions are equivalent. In The Ira. M. Hedges, 218
-. ,8. 264, where the same condition Was presented, this
Court, after pointing out the difficulty of sometimes distinguishing between matters going to the jurisdiction and
those determining the merits and suggesting that it might
be said that there the two considerations coalesced, fested
its decision upon the form of the decree; saying (p. 270):
"At all events, the form of the decree must be taken
to express the meaning ,of the judge. If the decree was
founded, as it purnorts to be, on a denial of jurisdiction in
the court, this court has jurisdiction of the appeal. For
all admiralty jurisdiction belongs to courts of the United
States as such, and therefore the denial of jurisdictioii
brings the appeal within the established rule. See The
Steamship Jefferson, 215 U. S. 130, 138."
In.Blumenstock Brothers v: Curtis Publishing Co., 252
U. S.436' 441, it is said:
"In any case alleged to come within the federal jurisdiction it is not enough to allege that questions of a federal character- arise in the case, it must plainly appear
that the averments attempting to bfing the case within
federal jurisdiction are real and substantial."
The only authority cited in support of this statement is
Newburyport Water Co. v. Newburyport, supra,-where,
at p. 576, the rule is stated thus:
it -issettled that jurisdiction does not arise simply
because an averment is made as, to the existenhe of a
constitutional question, if it plainly appears that such
averment is ndt real and substantial, but is without color
of merit."
While the Blumenstock Case seems to put the emphasis
of the test in the'opposite way, it cannot be supposed that
It was meant to mnbdify the doctrine of the Newburypprt
Case, since its citation as authority is made without
4uahfic,tion.
It, follows that the motion to dismiss the writ of error
must be denied.

BINDERUP v. PATHE EXCHANGE.3
291

309

Opinion of the Court.

Second. We come then to consider whether the averments of the complaint-are sufficient to constitute a cause
of action under the Anti-Trust Act; and this inquiry involves two questions: (1) Are the alleged transactions in
which the exhibitor was engaged matters of interstate
commerce, and (2) Do the alleged acts of the defendants
in error constitute a combination or conspiracy in restraint thereof?
1. The film contracts were between residents of different States and contemplated the leasing by one to the
other of a commodity manufactured in one State and
transported and to be transported to and used in another.
The business of the distributors of which the arrangement
with the exhibitor here was an instance, was clearly interstate. It consisted of manufacturing the commodity in
one State, finding customers for it in other States, making contracts, of lease with them, and transporting the
commodity leased from the State of manufacture into the
States of the lessees. If the commodity were consigned
directly to the lessees, the interstate character of the comi-merce throughout would not be disputed. Does the circumstance that in the course of the process the commodity
is consigned to a local agency of the distributors, to be by
that agency held until delivery to the lessee in the same
State, put an end to the interstite character of the trans-'
action and transform it into one purely intrastate? We
think not. The intermediate delivery to the agency did
not end and was not intended'to end the movement of the
commodity. It was merely halted as a convenient step in
the process of getting it to its final destination. The general rule is that where transportation-has acquired an interstate character "it continues at least until the load
reaches the point where the parties originally intended
that the movement should finally end." Illinois.Central
R. R. Co. v. Louisiana R. R. Comm., 236 U. S.157, 1637'
Axnd see, Western Union Tel. Co. v. Foster,247 U. S.105,

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

113; Western Oil Refining Co. v. Lipscomb, 244 U. S. 346,
349.
Il Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375, 398, it
was held that where cattle were sent for sale from a place
in one State, with the expectation that the transit would
end after purchase in another State, the only interruption
being that necessary to find a purchaser at the stockyards, and this was a typical, constantly recurring course,
the whole transaction was one in interstate commerce
and the purchase a part and incident of it. It further
appeared in that case that Swift & Company were also
engaged in shipping fresh meats to their respective agents
at the principal markets in other cities for sale by such
agents in those markets to dealers and consumers; and
these sales were held to be part of the interstate transaction upon the ground " that the same things~which are
sent to agents are sold by them, and . . . some at least
of the sales are of the original packages. Moreover, the
sales are by persons in one State to persons in another."
In the same case in the court below, 122 Fed. 529, 533,
upon this branch of the case, it is said :
"I think the same is true of meat sent to agents, and
sold from their stores. The transaction in such case, in
reality, is between the purchaser and the agents' principal. The agents represent the principal at the place where
the
exchange takes place; but the transaction, as- a commercIal
entity, includes the principal, and includes
him as
dealing from his place of business!'
The most recent expression of this Court is in Stafford v.
Wallace, 258 U. S- 495, 516, where, after describing the
process by which livestock- are transported to the stockyards and thence to the purchasers, it is said: .
" Such transactions can not be separated from the movement to which they contribute and necessarily take on its
character. The commission men are essential in making
the sales without which the flow of the current would be

BINDERUP v. PATHE EXCHANGE.
291

Opinion of. the Court.

obstructed, and this, whether they are made to packers or
dealers. The dealers are essential to the sales to the stock
farmers and feeders. The sales are not in this aspect
merely local transactions. They create a local change of
title, it is true, but they do not stop the flow; they merely
change the private interests in the subject of the current,
not interfering with, but, on the contrary, being,indispensable to its continuity."
The transactions here are essentially the same as those
involved in the foregoing cases, substituting the word
"film" for the word "livestock," or "cattle," or "meat."
Whatever difference exists is of degree and not in character.
The cases cited by defendants in error, upholding state
taxation as not constituting an interference with interstate commerce, are of little value to the inquiry here. It
does not follow that because a thing is subject to state
taxation it is also immune from federal regulation under
the Commerce Clause. Stafford v. Wallace, "supra, pp.
525-527; Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v. United Stateg, 175
U. S. 211, 245.
2. The distributors, according to the allegations of the
complaint, controlled the distribution of all films in the
United States and the exhibitor could not procure them
from others. The direct result of the alleged conspiracy
and combination -not to sell to the exhibitor, therefore,
was to put an end to his participation in that business.
-Interstate commerce includes the interstate purchase, sale,
lease, and ex-change of commodities, and any combination
or conspiracy which unreasonably restrains such purchase,
sale, lease or exchange is within the terms of the AntiTrust Act, denouncing as illegal every contract, combination or conspiracy "in restraint. of trade or commerce
among the several States." The allegation of the complaint is that the exhibitor had been procuring films from
some of the distributors but had refused to buy from

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

others, who thereupon induced the former to cease dealing
with him, and that all then, combined ahd conspired, in
restraint of intetstate trade and commerce, to prevent him
from carrying on his said business; that they have ever
since refused to furnish him with film service and have
caused unexpired contracts which he held with some of
them to be illegally cancelled. It is difficult to imagine
how interstate trade could be more effectively restrained
than by suppressing it and that, in effect, so far as the
exhibitor is concerned, is what the distributors in combination are charged with doing and intending to do. It
is duubtless true that each of the distributors, acting separately, could have refused to furnish films to the exhibitor
with ut becoming .amenable to the provisions of the act,
but here it is alleged that they combined and conspired
together to prevent him from leasing from any of them.
The illegality consists, not in the separate action of each,
but in the conspiracy and combination of all to prevent
any of them from dealing with the exhibitor. See United.
States v. Schrader's Son, Inc., 252 U. S. 85, 99; Bobbs-.
Merrill Co. v. Straus, 139 Fed. 155, 191. The contracts
with these distributors contemplated and provided for
transactions in interstate commerce. The business which
was done under them-leasing, transportation and delivery
of films-was interstate commerce. The alleged purpose
and direct effect of the combination and conspiracy was
to put an end to these contracts and future business of
the same character and. " restrict, in that regard, the liberty of a trader to engage in business," Loewe v. Lawlor,
208 U. S. 274, 293, and, as a necessary corollary, to restrain
interstate trade and commerce' in, violation of the AntiTrust Act.
The judgments of the courts below are reversed aid -the
case remanded to the District Court for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

