OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U: S.

on the issue whether the testator at the time of executing
the will was of sound and disposing mind and capable of
executing .a valid deed or contract, is upon the caveator.
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA v. STATE
OF WEST VIRGINIA.
STATE OF OHIO v. STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA.
ON REHEARING.

Nos. 15 and 16,*Orig., October Term, 1922. Reargued November 20,
1923.-Decided December 3, 1923.
Decree heretofore made in these cases, reaffirmed, after rehearing.

Mr. John W. Davis and Mr. George E. Alter, Attorney
General of the Commonwealth of Peniisylvania, for
plaintiffs.
Mr. Philip P. Steptoe and Mr. Cqeorge M. Hoffheimer
for defendant.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

announced the ruling of

the Court.
An opinion expressing the views of the Court in these
cases was announced at the -last term and a decree was
entered then. 262 U. S. 553, 623.. By the Cour's leave,
given at that term, a petition 'for rehearing was fied.
The cases had been presented in oral argument three
times, but three members of the Court had heard only
the last presentation. This, with the importance of the
questions involved and the public character of the litgants, led the Court to grant the rehearing. It was had
two weeks ago.. The cases have beer considered again in
the light of that presentation, and after this further reflection the Court perceives no ground for disturbing the

HIGHTOWER v. AMER. NATL. BANK.
350

351

Syllabu.

opinion heretofore announced or the decree entered
thereon.
Decree reaffirmed.
The CHIEF Justice did not participate in the consideration of the cases on the rehearing.
MRR. JUSTICE HOLMES, MR. JuSTIcE MCREYwOLIis and
MR.'JUSTICE BRANDEIS dissent, for the reasons given in
their dissenting opinions at the last term.
HIGHTOWER ET AL. v. AMERICAN NATIONAL
BANK, OF MACON, GEORGIA.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF- APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 25.

Argued January 25, 1923.-Decided December 3, 1923.

1. A contract between two national banks under which the assets
of the one were transferred to the other and the latter assumed
the liabilities of the former and advanced money, in excess of the
assets, to pay the liabilities and expenses, construed as intending,
not a sale, but a pledge of the assets, as security for repayment of
the money advanced. Pp. 353, 358.
2. Where a national bank, in financial difficulty, but still in active
operation and not thought to be insolvent, to protect the interests
of its creditors and shareholders inde.a contract by authority of.
its directors with another nationil bank, whereby the second bank
assumed the liabilities of the first, toQk over its assets as security,
and paid the debts by means of the assets and its own funds, acting
finally as liquidating agent after the shareholders of the first bank
had ratified the contract and ordered liquidation under Rev. Stats.,
ยง 5220,--held, that the contract was valid; and that the claim of
the second bank for money advanced in excess of the assets "was
not created during the liquidation but was .a debt arising under
the contract for which the shareholders of "the liquidated bank
were liable under Rev. Stats., ยง 5151, as amended. P. 360.
276 Fed. 371, affirmed.

APPEAL from a.decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which afrmed a decree of the District 'Court awarding

