BILOKUMSKY v. TOD.
143

149

Syllabus.

do not show any interest which entitles them to sue, we
have no occasion to consider either the power of carriers
to impose the penalty charge or the power of the Commission to order its cancellation.
Affirmed.
"UNITED STATES EX REL: BILOKUMSKY v. TOD,
COMMISSIONER OF IMMIGRATION AT THE
PORT OF NEW YORK, FT AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 92. Argued October 19, 1923.-Decided November 12, 1923.
1. In proceedings by the immigration authorities to deport a. person
charged with being an alien within the United States in violation
of law, alienage is a jurisdictional fact, which must be found, to
sustain an order of deportation. P. 153.
2. The burden of proving alienage in such proceedings (with a.
statutory exception in Chinese cases), is on the Government. Id.
3. When an essential finding of fact in such- proceedings is unsupported by evidence, the courts may intervene by habeas corpus.

Id.
4. Where a person, arrested for deportation as an alien within the
United States in violation of law in that he had in his possession.
for distribution printed matter advocating overthrow of the Government by force or violence, upon being called and sworn as a
witness, by the Government, to prove his alienage, stood mute,-held, that admission of alienage, which is not an element of the
crime of sedition, would not have tended to incriminate him, and
that the immigration officers might properly have inferred, the
fact of alienage from his silence. P. 154.
5. Deportation proceedings are civil in character and the person
arrested may be compelled by legal process to testify whether he
is an alien. P. 155.
6. Mere interrogation under oath by a government official of one
lawfully in confinement is not a search and seizure. P. 155.
7. The rules of'the Secretary of Labor concerning depbrtation cases
do not require that a person under investigation prior to application for warrant of arrest, shall be advised of his right to have

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

counsel and to decline to answer questions, before being interrogated as to his alienage. P. 155.
8. The use in evidence in a deportation proceeding of an admission
of his alienage made previously by the person held for deportation,
while he was in custody of state authorities,--held,not to render
the hearing unfair, in view .of corroborative evidence and his failure
to deny alienage at the hearing. P. 156.
9. A person held for deportation by immigration officials will not be
discharged on habeas corpus.merely because the warrant of arrest
was issued without probable cause, if the later proceedings were
regular and afford sufficient ground for his detention. P. 158.
Affirmed.
APPEAL from an order of the District Court discharging
a writ of habeas corpus and remanding the relator and
appellant to the custody of the Commissioner of Immigration.

Mr. Walter Nelles, with whom Mr. IsaacSh6rr was on
the briefs, for appellant.
Mr. George Ross Hull, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on

the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUsTIcE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Bilokumsky is said to have entered the United States in
1912. In May, 1921, he was arrested in deportation proceedings upon a warrant of the Secretary of Labor as
being an alien within the United States in violation of
law. The specific ground was having in his possession
for the purpose of distribution printed matter which advocated the overthrow of the Government of the United
States by force or violence. Act of October 16, 1918,
c. 186, §§ 1 and 2, 40 Stat. 1012, as amended June 5, 1920,
c. 251, 41 Stat. 1008. After a hearing, granted to enable
him to show cause why he should not be deported, a warrant of deportation issued. While in the custody of the

BILOKUMSKY v. TOD.
149

Opinion of the Court.

Commissioner of Immigration at the Port of New York,
he filed in the federal court this-petition for a writ of
habeas corpus. That court heard the case upon the return and a traverse thereto; dismissed the writ; remanded
the relator to the custody of the Commissioner; allowed
an appeal; and stayed deportation until further order.
The case is here under § 238 of the Judicial Code, the
claim being that the relator was denied rights guaranteed
by the Fourth and Fifth Amendments to the Federal
Constitution.
Prior to the application for the warrant of arrest in the
deportation proceedings, Bilokumsky -was confined to
Moyamensing Prison, Philadelphia, on charges made by
city. authorities that he had violated the state sedition
law. While there he was sworn and interrogated by an
immigration inspector who took a stenographic report of
the examination. In answer to questions so put he admitted, that he was an alien, but denied that he had done
anything which rendered him liable to .deportation.
There is nothing in the examination which suggests that
Bilokumsky made his statement because of threats or
promises of favor; and there was no evidence that the
statement was an involuntary one, unless compulsion is
to be inferred from the fact that he was at the time in
custody; that city and federal authorities were then cooperating "with a view to ridding this country of undesirables "; that the prosecution under the state law was
dropped soon after the institution of the deportation proceedings; that he was not then represented by counsel;
and that he was not apprised by the inspector, either that
he was entitled to be so represented or that he was not
obliged to answer.
At the hearing under the warrant of the Secretary of
Labor all facts necessary to establish that Bilokumsky
had in his possession for purpose of distribution printed
matter which advocated the overthrow of the Govern-

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

ment were proved by evidence to which there was no
objection. To prove alienage the inspector called Bilokumsky as a witness. He was sworn; but when questioned by the immigration inspector, under advice of
counsel, stood mute, refusing even to state his nameAfter his refusal to answer, the report of his examination
in Moyamensing Prison was introduced, although duly
objected to by counsel. He did not testify on his own
behalf; nor did he, or his counsel, make the claim, at the
hearing, that he is a citizen of the United States. The
rules then in force dealing with the conduct of such hearings are copidd in the margin.' So far as appears these
were fully complied with. It is conceded that, if the fact
of alienage was legally established, there was both probable cause for issuing the original warrant of arrest and
ample evidence at the hearing to justify a finding that
relator was within the United States in violation of law.
The contention is that there was no legal evidence of
alienage.
If, in the deportation proceedings, Bilokumsky had
claimed that he was a citizen and had supported the claim
by substantial evidence, he would have been entitled to
have his status finally determined by a judicial, as distinguished from an executive, tribunal. Ng Fung Ho v.
'"Rule 22, Subd. 5(a). Upon receipt of a telegraphic or written
warrant of arrest the alien shall be taken before the person or persons
therein named or described and granted a hearing to enable him to
show cause, if any there be, why he should not be deported. If the
alien is unable to speak or understand English, an interpreter should
be employed where practicable."
"Rule 22, Subd. 5(b). At the beginning of the hearing under the
warrant of arrest the alien shall be allowed to inspect the warrant of
arrest and all the evidence on which it was issued, and shall be
apprised that he may be represented by counsel. The alien shall be
required then and there to state whether he desires coumdel or waives
the sane, and his reply shall be entered on the record. If counsel' be
selected, he shall be permitted to be present during the conduct of the
hearing." Compare Colyer v. Skeffington, 265 Fed. 17, 46.

BILOKUMSKY v. TOD.
149

153

Opinion of the Court.

White, 259 U. S. 276, 281. But he made no such claim
at that time; nor does he now contend, by allegation
in his petition for habeas corpus, or otherwise, that he is
a citizen of the United States. He rests his claim to relief on an entirely different ground. He asserts that,
because of the manner in which the evidence of alienage
was procured, the warrant of deportation is a nullity.
He argues that alienage is essential to jurisdiction; that
the Government has the burden of establishing the fact;
that it can be established only by legal evidence; that his
examination while in prison is the only evidence introduced for that purpose; that its Procurement involved
both an unlawful search and seizure and a violation of
the rules of the Department; that since it was illegally
procured it was not legal evidence; and, hence, that the'
order is void. Its nullity is urged on three grounds.
Because the order is unsupported by legal evidence.; because the hearing was unfair; and because the original
warrant issued without probable cause.
It is true that alienage is a jurisdictional fact; and that
an order of deportation must be predicated upon a finding
of that fact. United States v. Sing Tuck, 194 U. S. 161,
167. It is true that the burden of proving alienage rests
upon the Government. For the statutory provision
which puts ulJon the person arrested in deportation proceedings the burden of establishing his right to remain
in this country applies only to persons of the Chinese
race. See Ng Fung Ho v. White, supra, p. 283. (Compare Immigration Rules of May 1, 1917, Rule 8.) It is
also true that if the Department makes a finding of an
essential fact which is unsupported by evidence, the court
may intervene by the writ of habeas corpus. Zakonaite
v. Wolf, 226 U. S.272, 274-5. But it is not true that, if
the report of Bilokumsky's examination be eliminated,
there was no evidence of alienage at the hearing: Con-.
duct which forms a basis for inference is evidence.. Silence

154

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

is often evidence of the most persuasive 'character.
Runkle v. Burnham, 153 U. S. 216, 225; Kirby v. Talmadge, 160 U. S. 379, 383. Compare Quock Ting v.
United States, 140 U. S. 417, 420. Bilokumsky was present at the hearing, personally and by counsel. The
ground for deportation involved a charge of acts which
might have been made the basis of a serious criminal
prosecution. Criminal Code, § 6. If Bilokumsky was a
citizen, inquiry into the facts was immaterial; and the
whole proceeding must have fallen. He, presumably,
knew whether or not he was a citizen. Since alienage is
not an element of the crime of-sedition, testifying concerning his status could not have had a tendency to incriminate him. There was strong reason why he should
have asserted citizenship, if there was any basis in fact
for such a contention. Under these circumstances his
failure to claim that he was a citizen and his refusal to
testify on this subject had a tendency to prove that he
was an alien.
Conduct is often capable of several interpretations; and
caution should be exercised in'drawing inferences from it.
But there is no rule of law which prohibits officers charged
with the administration of the immigration law from
drawing an inference from the silence of one who is called
upon to speak. Deportation proceedings are civil in their
nature. Fong Yue Ting v. United States, 149 U. S. 698,
730; Bugajewitz v. Adams, 228 U. S. 585, 591.: Neither
statute nor rule requires that matter alleged in the warrant of arrest shall, in the absence of an express admission, be taken to be denied. A person arrested on the
preliminary warrant is not protected by a presumption of
citizenship comparable to the presumption of innocence
in a criminal case. There is no provision which forbids
drawing an adverse inference from the fact of standing
mute. It is not unreasonable to assuirf- that one who
may wish to challenge the executive's jurisdiction in the

BILOKUMSKY v. TOD.
149

Opinion of the Court.

courts will not refrain from asserting in the proceedings
before the executive the facts on which he relies. To
defeat deportation it is not always enough for. the person
arrested to stand mute at the hearing and put the Government upon its proof. Compare United States v. Sing
Tuck, 194 U. S. 161, 169. Since the proceeding was not
a criminal one, Bilokumsky might have been compelled
by legal process to testify whether or not he was an alien.The Government was not obliged to adopt that course.
The introduction of Bilokumsky's examinationas evidence did not render the hearing unfair. The specific
grounds urged for holding it so are that the evidence was
obtained by an illegal search and seizure and in violation
of the rules of the Department. Both contentions are
unfounded. It may be assumed that evidence obtained
by the Department through an illegal search and seizure
cannot be made the basis of a finding in deportation proceedings. Compare Silverthorne Lumber Co. v. United
States, 251 U. S. 385; Gouled v. United States, 255 U. S.
298. But mere interrogation under oath by a Government official of one lawfujly in confinement is not a search
and seizure. It may be assumed that one under investigation with a view to deportation is legally entitled to
insist upon -the observance of rules promulgated by the
Secretary pursuant to law.3 But no rule is shown which
prohibits interrogation without apprising the person
under investigation that he is entitled to refuse to answer
. 'See United States v. Hung Chang, 134 Fed. 19; Low Foon YIm

v.
United States, 145 Fed. 791; Law Chin Woon v. United States, 147
Fed. 227;" Tom Wah v. United States, 163 Fed. 1008; In re Chan Foo
Lin, 243 Fed. 137, 140; United States v. Brooks, 284 Fed. 908, 910.
Act of Feb. 5, 1917, c. 29, § 16, 39 Stat. 874.
Compare Whitfield v. Hanges, 222 Fed. 745, 749; Jouras v. Allen,
222 Fed. 756, 758; Mah Shee v. White, 242 Fed. 868, 871; Lum Hoy
Kee v. Johnson, 281 Fed. 872; Sibray v. United States, 282 Fed. 795,
797; Ex parte Low Joe, 287 Fed. 545; United States v. Dunton, 288
Fed. 959.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S

and to have counsel. The examination here complained
of was conducted before there was an application for the
warrant of arrest. There is neither in Rule 22, subdivision 3, which relates to the application for a warrant,'
nor elsewhere in the rules, any provision which deals with
interrogation prior to the hearing. Rule 22, subdivision
5(a) and (b), apply only to the proceedings after an
arrest has been made. The careful provision which the
rules make to ensure to the person arrested the benefit of
coimsel and access to the Government's evidence at the
hearing leads to the conclusion that the omission of any
similar provision governing earlier stages in the proceeding was intentional. In the absence of a rule forbidding
interrogation, or requiring the presence of counsel, mere
examination in his absence does not render the hearing
unfair. Low Wah Suey v. Backus, 225 U. S. 460, 470.
It is urged that the admission of Bilokumsky's examination renders the hearing unfair because it is inconsistent with fundamental principles of justice embraced
within the conception of due process of law. The argument is that if a judgment of deportation is to rest upon
admissions attributable to the person to be deported, the
admissions must have been made by him as a free agent
and under circumstances which raise no doubt whether
they were in fact made. Deportation is a process of such
serious m6ment that on all controvelted matters the executive. officers should consider the evidence with close
scrutiny. But -here there was no denial of alienage; and
a landing certificate was introduced by the Government
which, when connected with the statement in BilokumRule 22, Subd. 3. Application for warrant of arrest.-The application must state facts showing prima facie that the alien comes
within one or more of the classes subject to deportation after entry,
and, except in cases in which the burden of proof is upon the alien
(Chinese) involved, should be accompanied by some substantial supporting evidence."

BILOKUMSKY v. TOD.
149

Opinion of the Court.

sky's examination, tended in some respects to corroborate
it. Moreover, the statement that one is an alien is not
the confession of a crime. Except in case of Chinese, or
other Asiatics, alienage is a condition, not a cause, of deportation. So far as appears, there was nothing in the
circumstances under which Bilokumsky was examined
which would have rendered his answer inadmissible even
in a criminal case. The mere fact that it was given while
he was in confinement would not make it so.' And since
deportation proceedings are in their nature civil, the rule
excluding involuntary confessions could have no application. Newhall v. Jenkins, 2 Gray, 562, 563. .Moreover, a hearing granted does not cease to be fair, merely
because rules of evidence and of procedure applicable in
judicial proceedings have not been 5trictly followed by
the executive; or because some evidence has been improperly rejected or received.' Tang Tun v. Edsell, 223
U. S. 673, 681. To render a hearing unfair the defect; or
the practice complained of, must have been such s might
have led to a denial of justice, or there must have been
absent one of the elements deemed essential to due process.
Chin Yow v. United States, 208 U. S. 8; Kwock Jan Fat
v. White, 253 U. S. 454, 459. Compare Interstate Commerce Commission v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co.,.
227 U. S. 88, 91.
'Hopt v. Utah, 110 U. S. 574, 585; Sparf and Hansen v. United
States, 156 U. S. 51, 55; Pierce v. United States, 160 U. S. 355,
357; Wilson v. United States, 162 U. S. 613, 623; Hardy v. United
States, 186 U. S.-224, 228-230. Compare Powers v. United States,
223 U. S. 303.
6Compare United States V. Uhl, 215 Fed. 573, 574, 576; Choy
Gum v. Backus, 223 Fed. 487, 492-3; Sibfay v. United States, 227
Fed. 1, 7; United States v. Uhl, 266 Fed. 34, 39; United States
v. Uhl, 266 Fed. 646; Morrell v. Baker, 270 Fed. 577; United
States v. Uhl, 271 Fed. 676, 677; Chin Shee v. White, 273 Fed. 801,
805; United States v. Wallis, 279 Fed. 401, 403; Mdy Yoke Shue
v. Johnson, 290 Fed. 621..

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

263 U. S.

What has been said disposes also of the broader contention that the whole deportation proceeding was void
.ab initio, because without the report of Bilokumsky's examination there was lacking probable cause for issuance
of the warrant of arrest. Irregularities on the part of
the Government official prior to, or in connection with,
the arrest would not necessarily invalidate later proceedings in all respects conformable to law. "A writ of
habeas corpus is not like an action to recover damages for
an unlawful arrest or commitment, but its object is to
ascertain whether the prisoner can lawfully be detained in custody; and if sufficient ground for his detention by
the government is shown, he is not to be discharged for
defects in the original arrest or commitment." Nishimura
Ekiu v. 'United States, 142 U. S. 651, 662; lasigi V. Van
de Carr, 166 U. S. 391; Stallings v. Splain, 253 U. S.
339, 343.
Affirmed.
DAVIS, AS AGENT OF THE PRESIDENT, ETC. v.
SLOCOMB, ADMINISTRATRIX OF SLOCOMB.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT. -

No. 530. Motion to dismiss submitted October 1, 1923.-Decided
November 12, 1923.
1. An action for death by negligence, though based on a state
statute, is an action arising under the laws of the United States
when brought .against the Director General of Railroads under
§ 10 of the Federal Control Act or against the Agent designated
as his substitute under the Transportation Act, 1920. P. 160.
2. But, because of the provision of the Federal Control Act forbidding transfer to a federal court of any action not so transferable
prior to the federal control, an action against the Director General
was not removable to the District Court upon the ground that it
arose under that act. P. 160.

