ROOKER v. FIDELITY TRUST CO.
403

413

Syllabus.

there is any, that is the fact with which the defendants
had to deal. There were not men enough to enable the
factories to run continuously during the working season,
leaving out the two or three summer months in which the.
heat makes it impossible to go on. To work undermanned costs the same in fuel and overhead expenses as.
to work fully manned, and therefore means a serious loss.
On the other hand the men are less well off with the uncertainties that such a situation brings. The purpose of
the arrangement is to secure employment for all the men
during the whole of the two seasons, thus to give all the
labor available to the factories, and to divide it equally
among them. From'the view that we take we think it
unnecessary to explain how the present system sprang
from experience during the war when the Government
restricted production to one-half of what it had been and
an accident was found to work well, or to do more than
advert to the defendants' contention that with the means
available the production is increased. It is enough that
we see no combination in unreasonable restraint of trade
in the arrangements made to meet the short supply of

men.
Decree reversed.
Petition.dismissed.

ROOKER ET AL. -v. FIDELITY TRUST COMPANYET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

No. 295. Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted November 26, 1923.Decided December 10, 1923.
1. Where a judgment has been rendered, after due hearing, by a
state trial court, with jurisdiction of the subject matter and parties,
and affirmed by the state Supreme Court, the only resort under the

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

legislation of Congress, for correction of errors in deciding questions
involving the Constitution, is to the appellate jurisdiction of this
Court. P. 415.
2.. The District Court has no jurisdiction of a suit brought there
by the party who was defeated in the state courts, against his
successful opponents, all citizens of the same State, to set aside
the -judgment as void because of errors alleged to have been
committed by the state courts in deciding constitutional questions.

P. 416.
3. A judge is not disqualified to sit in a case involving the duties of
a corporation under a conventional trust merely because of being
one of the executors and trustees to whom shares of stock in
corporations holding property under like trusts have passed for
administration and disposal under a will. P. 417.

Affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court which dismissed a bill for want of jurisdiction.
Mr. Charles E. Cox, for appellees, in support of the
motion. Mr. Henry Seyfried was also on the brief.,
Mr. William Velpeau Rooker, for appellants, in opposition to the motion.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTBR delivered the opinion of
the Court,
This is a bill in equity to have a judgment of a circuit
court in Indiana, which was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the State, declared null and void, and to obtain
other relief dependent on that outcome. An effort to
have the judgment reviewed by this Court on writ of
error had failed because the record did not disclose the
presence of any question constituting a basis for such.
a review. Rooker v. Fidelity Trust Co., 261 U. S. 114..
The parties to the bill are the same as in the litigation
in the state court, but with an addition of two defendants
whose presence does not need special notice. All are
citizens of the same State. The grounds advanced for
resorting to the District Court are that the judgment

ROOKER v. FIDELITY TRUST CO.
413

415

Opinion of the Court.

was rendered and affirmed in contravention of the contract clause of the Constitution of the United States -and
the due process of law and equal protection clauses of
the Fourteenth Amendment, in that it gave effect to a
state statute alleged to be in conflict with those clauses
and did not give effect to a prior decision in the same
cause by the Supreme Court of the State which is alleged
to have become the "law Of the case." The District
Court was of opinion that the suit was not within its
jurisdiction as defined by Congress, and on that ground
dismissed the bill. The plaintiffs have appealed directly
to this court under § 238 of the Judicial Code.
The appellees move that the appeal be dismissed, or in
the alternative that the decree be affirmed.
The appeal is within the first clause of § 238; so, the
motion to dismiss must be overruled. But the suit is so
plainly not within the District Court's jurisdiction as
defined by Congress that the motion to affirm must be
sustained.
It affirmatively appears from the bill that the judgment was rendered in a cause wherein the circuit court
had jurisdiction of both -the subject matter and the
parties; that a full hearing was had therein; that the
judgment was responsive to the issues, and that it was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State on an appeal
by the plaintiffs. 191 hid. 14i. If the constitutional
questions stated in the bill actually arose in the cause,
it was the province and duty .of. the state courts to decide them; and their decision, whether right or wrong,
vas an exercise of jurisdiction. If the decision was
wrong, that did not make the judgment void, but merely
left itopen to reversal or modification in an appropriate
and timely appellate proceeding. Unless and until so
reversed or modified, it would be an effective and conclusive adjudication. Elliott v. Peirsol, 1 Pet. 328,-340;
Thompson v. Tolmie, 2 Pet. 157, 169; Voorhees v. Bank

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

of United States, 10 Pet. 449, 474; Cornett v. Williams,
20 Wall. 226, 249; Ex parte Harding, 120 U. S. 782.
Under the legislation of Congress, no court of the United
States other than this Court could entertain a proceeding to reverse or modify the judgment for errors of that
character. Judicial Code, §237, as amended' September
6, 1916, c. 448, § 2, 39 Stat. 726. To do so would be an
exercise of appellate jurisdiction.
The jurisdiction
possessed by the District Courts is strictly original. Judicial Code, § 24. Besides, the period within which a
proceeding might be begun .for the correction of errors
such as are charged in the bill had expired before it was
filed, Act September 6, 1916, c. 448, § 6, 39 Stat. 726, and,
as is pointed out in Voorhees v, Bank of United States,
supra, after that period elapses an aggrieved litigant
cannot be permitted to do indirectly what he no longer
can do directly.
Some parts of the bill speak of the judgment as given
without jurisdiction and absolutely void; but this is
merely mistaken characterization. A reading of the entire bill shows indubitably that there was full jurisdiction
in the state courts and that the bill at best is merely an
attempt to get rid of the judgment for alleged errors of
law committed in the exercise of that jurisdiction.
In what has been said we have proceeded on the assumption that the constitutional questions alleged to have
arisen in the state courts respecting the validity of a state
statute, Acts 1915, c. 62, and the effect to be given to a "
prior decision in the' am. cause by the Supreme Court of
the State, 185 Ind. 172, were questions of substance, but
we do not hold that they were such,-the assumption
being -indulged merely for the purpose of testing the
nature of the bill and the power of the District Court to
entertain it.
A further matter calls for brief notice. The bill charges
that the judgment of affirmance by the Supreme Court

ROOKER v. FIDELITY TRUST CO.
413

417

Opinion of the Court.

of the State is void because one of the judges participating
therein had an interest in the case which worked his-disqualification. The case related to the duties and obligations of a corporation holding property under'a conventional trust. The facts set forth to show the disqualification are as follows: Three of four years theretofore a
citizen of the State had executed a will wherein he designated the judge as one of the executors and trustees under
the will. The testator died about the tinme the case was
submitted to the court, and the will was admitted to
probate a day or two before or after the judgment of
affirmance. The judge became an, executor and trustee
under the designation in the will. When the will was
executed, and up to the, time of his death, the testator
owned many shares of stock in corporations holding property under trusts like that in question. The stock was
to pass, and did pass, to the executors and trustees for
administration and disposal under the will. The judge's
relation or prospective relation to that estate and to the
stocks belonging to it is the sole basis of the charge that
he had a disqualifying interest in the case. We think the
facts set forth and relied upon neithersupport nor tend to
support the charge; and we experience difficulty in reconciling its presence in the bill with the care and good
faith which should attend the preparation of such a pleading. Certainly the charge does not change the nature- of
thp bill or "require *that it be given any effect which it
otherwise would not have.
Decree affirmed.
74308o-24-----27

