188

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

263 U. S.

important, for such statutes are not to be extended by implication beyond the clear import of the language used.
If the words are doubtful, the doubt must be resolved
against the Government and in favor of the taxpayer.
Gould v. Gould, 245 U. S. 151, 153. The rule is stated
by Lord Cairns in Partingtonv. Attorney-General, L. R.
4 H. L. 100, 122:
"I am not at all sure that, in a case of this kind-a
fiscal case-form is not amply sufficient; because, as I
understand the principle of all fiscal legislation, it is this:
If the person sought to be taxed comes within the letter
of the law he must be taxed, however great the hardship
may appear to the judicial mind to be. On the other hand,
if the Crown, seeking to recover the tax, cannot bring the
subject within the letter of the law, the subject is free,
however apparently within the spirit of the law the case
might otherwise appear to be. In other words, if there
be admissible in any statute, what is called an equitable
construction, certainly such a construction is not admissible in a taxing statute, where you can simply adhere to
the words of the statute." And see Eidman v. Martinez,
184 U. S. 578, 583.
We are of opinion that these bequests are not taxable
as income under the statute, and the judgment below is
Affirmed.
KLEBE ET AL., COPARTNERS, TRADING AS L.
K1LEBE & COMPANY, v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 78.

Argued October 16, 17, 1923.-D)ecided November 12, 123.

1. A contract implied in fact is one inferred from circumstances or
acts of the parties; an express contract speaks for itself and excludes implications. P. 191.
2. Where the Government, relying on a purchase-privilege clause of
a construction contract, appropriated a steam shovel, used in the

KLEBE v. UNITED STATES.
188

Opinion of the Court.

work, which the contractor had leased from another, held, that the
shovel-owner's cause of action against the United States was either
in tort, which could not be maintained under the Tucker Act, or
upon the express contract, for -payment as therein provided; but
that a contract to pay the value of the shovel could not be implied.
Id.
57 Ct. Cns. 160, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims,
awarding the appellants damages under an express contract but refusing to recognize their larger claim of implied contract.
Mr. Daniel C. Donoghue for appellants.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Ottinger, with whom
Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. Charles H. Weston,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the
brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Appellants, plaintiffs below, were the owners of a traction steam shovel, which they leased to the Bates &
Rogers Construction Company for $25 per day. At the
time of the lease and prior thereto the Construction Company was engaged, under contract, in certain work for the
United States for which the shovel was procured and used.
Article II, paragraph (c) of the contract under which the
work was done provided that the Construction Company
should be reimbursed for rentals actually paid for steam
shovels, at rates which were nai.ed, the company being
required to file with the contracting officer of the Government a schedule setting forth the fair valuation of
each part of the construction plant at the time of its
arrival at the site of the work. This valuation was made
final except upon a contingency which is not material here.
The paragraph further provided that when the total

1190

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

rental paid by the Government for' any such part should
equal its valuation, no further rental should be paid and
title thereto should vest in the United States. At the
completion of the work the contracting officer was by the
contract given the option to purchase for the United States
any part of the plant then owned by the Construction
Company by paying the difference between the valuation
thereof and the total amount of rehtals theretofore paid.
A written instrument leasing the steam shovel to the
Construction Company was executed by the plaintiffs and
the Construction Company, which, among other things,
recited that plaintiffs had made themselves acquainted
with the provisions of Article II of the contract between
the Construction Company and the United States, which
plaintiffs agreed should "apply to and be enforceable
agaihst the said equipment furnished, and leased hereunder, to the end that the United States Government may
have and exercise as to and against the said equipment
all rights provided for in said paragraph (c), with respect
to plant or parts thereof owned and furnished by the
party of the second part" (the Construction Company);
the plaintiffs "to be entitled, as owner, to xeceive any
purchase price payments which upon any appropriation
of said equipment by the United States Government,
under said Article II, may be coming from said Government." The valuation of the shovel stated in the lease
was 85,000. Basing his action expressly upon the provisions of the lease incorporating paragraph (c), and after
84,225 in rentals had been paid upon the shovel, the contracting officer, properly authorized to do so, exercised
the option of the Government and took over the steam
shovel as its property. This was done a short time before
the completion of the work. The plaintiffs were notified
Qat insisted that the lease did not authorize this action.
The record shows that the Government has been ready
and willing at all times to pay the difference ($775)

KLEBE v. UNITED STATES.
188

Opinion of the Court.

between the valuation of the shovel and the amount of
rentals paid.
Plaintiffs insisted that the United States was not privy
to the leasing contract and brought suit to recover the
value of the shovel, viz., $5,000, upon the theory that it
had been taken by the Government for public use and
that thereby an implied obligation arose on the part of
the Government to pay just compensation therefor. The•
court below, one judge dissenting, found that the property
was taken under the express contract, creating a liability
for $775 only, and, therefore, no implication of a promise
could be indulged. Judgment for plaintiffs for this
amount was rendered.
In United States v. North American Co., 253 U. S. 330,
this Court said (p. 335): "The right to bring this suit
against the United States in the Court of Claims is not
founded upon the Fifth Amendment, Schillinger v. United
States, 155 U. S. 163, 168; Basso v. United States, 239
U. S. 602, but upon the existence of an implied contract
entered into by the United States. Langford v. United
States, 101 U. S. 341; Bigby v. 'United States, 188 U. S.
400; Tempel v. United States, 248 U. S. 121, 129; United
States v. Great Falls Manufacturing Co., [112 U. S. 645,]
supra; United States v. Lynah, [188 U. S. 445, 462, 465,]
supra." But the circumstances may be such as to clearly
rebut the existence of an implied contract, Ball Engineering Co. v. White & Co., 250 U. S. 46, 57; Horstmann Co. v.
United States, 257 U. S. 138, 146, as here, where possession
of the property was taken under an asserted claim -of
right to do so by virtue of an express contract, It is said
that the claim is not well-founded, but that is not material.
In Tempel v. United States, 248 U. S. 121, 130, this Court
said: "It is unnecessary to determine whether this claim
of the Government -is well-founded. The mere fact that
the Government then. claimed and now -claims title in
it elf and that it denies title in the plaintiff, prevents the

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

court from assuming jurisdiction of the controversy. - The
law cannot imply a promise by the Government to pay
for a right over, or interest in, land, which right or interest
the Government claimed and claims it possessed before it
utilized the same. If the Government's claim is unfounded, a property right of plaintiff was violated; but
the cause of action therefor, if any, is one sounding in tort;
and for such, the 'Tucker Act affords no remedy." The
parties here stipulated and the Court of Claims found that
the property "was appropriated by the Government as
its property under the purchase privilege clause of the
contract bbtween the plaintiffs and the Bates & Rogers
Construction Company." A contract implied in fact is
one inferred from the circumstances or acts of the parties;
but an express contract speaks for itself aild leaves no
place for implications. See King v. Kilbride, 58 Conn.
109, 117; Brown v. Fales, 139 Mass. 21, 28. To sustain
the contention that the express contract is not binding or
enforceable in favor of the Government and consequently
that its claim here is not well founded would not help the
plaintiffs, since then the resulting cause of action would
be one sounding in tort and not within the purview of
the Tucker Act. Tempel v. United States, supra. In
this view of the matter it becomes unnecessary to consider
whether the privilege of purchase was prematurely exercised.
Thd Court of Claims did not dismiss the petition but
rendered judgment in accordance with 'the terms of the
express contract. Whether this action was proper under
the pleadings we do not stop to inquire since the Government has' not appealed therefrom and its liability under
the express contract is admitted. The judgment is
I
Affirmed.

