ARNOLD v. GUIMARIN & CO.
Opinion of the Court.

ARNOLD, DOING BUSINESS AS R. H. ARNOLD
COMPANY, ET AL. v. UNITED STATES FOR THE
USE OF W. B. GUIMARIN & COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 31. Argued February 27, 1923.-Decided December 10, 1923.
A judgment of the Circuit Courf of Appeals, in an action on a contractor's bond brought by -a creditor under the Federal Materialmen's Act, which affirms the District Court in holding the action
not premature and in adjudicating the amount due the plaintiff,
but remands the case for jury trial of the claims of intervening
creditors, and settles neither the amount of the claims to be allowed
against the bond nor the proportionate share of each creditor if
the bond prove inadequate to pay all, does not finally and completely dispose of the subject matter of the litigation, either as to
the parties or the causes of action involved, and cannot be brought
here by writ of error. P. 432.
Writ of-error to review 280 Fed. 338, dismissed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which modified a judgment of the District Court in an action under the Materialmen's Act, and remanded the
cause for further proceedings.

Mr. William Henry White, for plaintiffs m error, submitted. Mr. Ellwood P. Morey and Mr. John I. Cosgrove
were also on the briefs.
Mr. Frank G. Tompkins, with whom Mr. M. G. McDonald was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This action was brought by a subcontractor, in 'the
name of the United States, in a Federal District Coilrt
in South Carolina, under the Materialmen's Act of
August 13, 1894, c. 280, 28 Stat. 278, as amended by the

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S

Act of February 24, 1905, c. 778, 33 Stat. 811, to recover
on a contractor's bond for the construction of a naval
storehouse. Judgment was had against the contractor
and his surety for the full penalty of the bond. The
Circuit Court of Appeals modified this judgment and
romanded -the cause to the District Court for further
proceedings. 280 Fed. 338.
The case has been brought here by writ of error, and
many errors have been assigned going to the merits of
the controvergy. The record, however, presents the preliminary question whether the judgment of the Circuit
'Court of Appeals has such finality and completeness that
it may be reviewed by this Court under the writ.
The Materialmen's Act, as amended, provides:' that
the usual penal bond executed by anyone entering into
a contract with the United States for. the construction'
of any public work shall contain an additional obligation
for ,the payment by the contractor of all persons sup.plying labor and materials in the prosecution, of the
work. Any such person not thus paid may intervene in
any action instituted by the United States on the bond
and obtain judgment pro rata with other intervenors,
subject to the priority of the claim of the United States.
And if no suit is brought by the United States within six
months from the completion and final settlement of. the
contract, any such person shall have a right of action
upon the bond; and may, within a specified time, bring
suit against the contractor and his surety, in the name
of the United States, for his use and benefit, in the
federal court of the district in which the contract was
performed and prosecute the same to final judgment and
execution. Where suit is so instituted by a creditor, only
one action shall be brought, and any creditor may" file
his claim therein' and be made a party thereto within
-

'The amended act is set forth in full in the margin of the opinion.'
in Texas Cement Co. v. McCord, 233 U. S. 157, 161, n. 1.

ARNOLD v. GUIMARIN & CO.
427

429

Opinion of the Court.

a specified time. And if the recovery on the bond is
inadequate to pay the amount due to all of said creditors,
judgment shall be given to each creditor 'pro rata of the
amount of the recovery.
The independent right of action given a materialman
or laborer by the amended act, is to be enforced in a
proceeding at law, and not in equity. Illinois Surety
Co. v. Peeler, 240 U. S. 214, 224. All 'claims under the
bond are to be presented in a single action, in which
every claimant may intervene and be heard as a party;
and this action is to proceed as a single case, in which
the several claimants are not entitled to separate trials
as of right, although in exceptional instances, for special
and persuasive reasons, the distinct causes of action asserted by them may be -made the subject of separate
trials. Miller v. American Bonding Co.,, 257 U. S. 304,
307, 308.
The situation presented in the present case is this:
Arnold, one of the plaintiffs in error, in October, 1917, entered into a contract with the United States to construct a
storehouse in the Navy Yard at Charleston, South
Carolina. He executed a bond for $65,190 in conformity
to the act with the Globe Indemnity 'Co.,' the other
plaintiff in error, as surety.
In November, 1920, the firm of Guimarin & Co., as
use plaintiff, brought this action on the bond -in the
Federal District Court at Charleston, against Arnold and
the Indemnity Company, to recover a balance $7,725.52,
with interest, alleged to be due it 'from Arnold under a
subcontract for supplying the plumbing and other material in the storehouse. The complaint alleged that
Arnold's contract with the United States had been completely performed and finally settled on April 17, 1920,
and that the United States had not entered suit on the
bond. The defendants answered, denying liability on

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.,
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

various grounds, specifically denying*that Arnold's contract, had been*finally' settled on April 17, or that more
than six months hadelapse 8ince its completion 'or final
settlement, and averringthat the court was without juris-2
diction because no such final settlement had been made.
Various' other creditors filed intervening petitions in
the case, setting up their claims; but neither the number nor the amount of these claims appears in the record.
At- the hearing, in June 1921, the court held, over thedefendant's objection, that 'the principal cause should b6
tried first, and that "if a 'breach of the bond was established ' judgment could'then be rendered and other
claimants permited to assert their several claims "to
share in- the fund thus created." . The case was then
tried 'upon the issues relating to the claim of Guimarin
& Co., and a verdict rendered by direction, finding that
Arnold's contract had -been completely- performed and
finally settled on April 16, 1920, and that Guimarin & Co.
was entitled to recove" under its subcontract $7,693.31,
-with interest. The court thereupon, without entering
any separat6 judgment upon this verdict in favor of
Guimarin & Co., ordered that the cause be referred to
a special master to take proof and report as to the.
Claims of intervening creditors, and entered a judgm ent
that the United States recover of the defendants $65,190,
the penalty of the bond, with: costs.
Under the provisions' of the amended act an action brought by'
V
a creditor before six nionths have expired from the time of the
comlletion and final settlement of the principal contracts, is prematre and cannot be sustained. Texas Cement Co. v. McCord, 233
U. S.'157, 1'63; Illinois Surety Co. v. Peeler, supra, p. 217.
"Thi.was several months before the decision in Miller v. Americ'an
Bonding Co.,. supra. The defendants stated, at the time, that if
the claims of all'intervenors were not tried in the main case before
the 'same jury, they would oppose aliy subsequent trial of claims
not then presented on the ground that such claims would be

foreclosed."

.ARNOLD v. GUIMARIN & CO.
427

431

Opinion of the Court.

Arnold and the Indemnity Company, before execution
of the order of reference, sted out a writ of error for the
review of this judgment by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
There appears to have been no citation under this writ
to the ihtervening creditors and no appearance by ihem
in the Circuit Court of Appeals.4
The Circuit Court of Appeals, after disposing; adversely to Arnold and the Ifidemnity Company, of vari.ous assignments of, error relating to the alleged prematurity of the suit and the claim of Guimarin & Co.,
said:
"Considering the action to be taken upon the judgment in this case, it 'seems to us, the same having been
fully tried so far as the plaintiffs are concerned,.., that
the action of the lower court should not be disturbed in
its ascertaininent of the- amount due plaintiffs. The
court instructed the jury to find for the plaintiffs, and
properly so, . . and the judgment should be treated as
that of a judgment on the bond, along with other petitioners, when -judgments are rendered in their favor'
The judgment ...

directing the reference to a master to

pass upon the claims of the several petitiohers, should
be modified, and a jury trial awarded, to determine in
a single trial the amounts due. the several petitioners.
...The court's idea, manifestly, in entering this judgment for the full penalty, was that, under South Carolina
practice, such a~tion constituted a forfeiture of thebond,
and enabled persons in the position of the plaintiffs and.
the petitioners to come in and assert 'their claims, the
aggregate not to exceed the amount of the bond, so far
as the surety w/as concerned ....
It is evident . that
The record does not- contain either the writ of error or the
citation, but -shows the entry of appearance -or "the defendant in
error." The Circuit Court of. Appeals :,1 its opinion refers to
Guinarin & Co. as "the defendant in error"; and the citation under
the present writ of error is directed only to the United States for

the use of Guimarin & Co.

432

3 OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

26a U. s.

the court held, and meant to hold, that the contract between R. H. Arnold & Co. and the United States . . .
had been fully performed, and final settlement made on
"th'th
1
day ef April, 1920, and that there was due to
the plaintiffs from the general contractor the sum of
$7,693.31, with interest..., and that, suit having been
instituted upon the bond in, the name of the United
States, suing for the use of W. B. Guimarin & Co., judgment should be entered in favor of the United States
for the sum of-$65,190, the penal-sum of the bond...,
uo be discharged by the payment to the said Guimarin
& Co. of $7,693.31, with interest.., until paid, together
with" costs, . . ; it appearing 5 that the plaintiffs' and
pptitioners' claims combined do not exceed the penal
sum of said bond. We think the judgment as thus understood .is correct and should be so modified, and that
the several petitioners, upon ascertainment of the
amounts respectively due them, should be entitled to
like judgments; the total judgmnents, including that of
the plaintiffs herein, not to exceed.the penalty of the
bo!d. The decision -of the lower court, as herein modified, will be approved and affirmed."
Judgment was thereupon entered modifying the judgment of the District Court "as set forth in the bpinion,"
affirming it as modified, and remanding the cause for further proceedings in accordance with the opinion.
It is evident that this judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals does not finally and completely dispose of the
sub'ect matter of the litigation, either as to the parties or
the causes of action involved. Looking to its substance,
it adjudges, at the most, that the action -vas iiot prematurely brought aLd is t6 be sustained for the benefit of
Guimarin & Co. and of the intervening creditors; and that
,

-

The woids ." it appearing" are manifestly used, a.5 the context
ihows, in the sense of "if it appears "; the amount of the petitioners' claims as already. stated, not appearing in the record.

ARNOLD v. GUIMARIN & CO.
427

433

Opinion of the Court.

the defendants are liable on the bond' for the amount
found by the verdict to be due Guimarin & Co. and for
such additional amounts as may hereafter be found, on the
jury trial awarded, to be due the intervening creditors,
the aggregaie amount of such recoveries, however, not to
exceed the penalty of the bond. It does not adjudge the
amounts which either Guimarin & Co. or the intervening
creditors will ultimately be entitled to recover on the
bond; but for these purposes remands the cause to the
District Court for further proceedings. If, upon the ascertainment of the .amounts due the intervening creditors,
the aggregate amount of the claims of Guimarin & Co.
and of the intervening creditors are less than the penalty
of the bond, it is adjudged that they will be entitled to
recoveries for the full amount of their claims; but if the
aggregate amount exceeds the penalty of the bond they
can only recover, under the express provision of the
statute, pro rataof the amount of such penalty. In short,
this judgment does not determine the ultimale amount
which Guimarin & Co. may recover on the bond, the
amounts which the intervening creditors may recover, or
the amount of the ultimate liability of the defendants on
the bond; it adjudicates neither the amount of the claims
which ar- to be finally allowed against the fund created
by the bond, nor the proportionate share of each creditor
in such fundif inadequate to pay the amounts due all the
creditors.
In La B ourgogne, 210 U. S. 95, 112, a proceeding in admiralty by the owner of a vessel for limitation of liability
arising from a collision, it was held that a decree adjudging
that the owner was entitled to the limitation sought, declaring that one class of claims could not be proved against
the fund and remitting all questions concerning other
claims for proof prior to final decree, was not a decree from
which an appeal lay to this Court, since the case not only
involved primarily the owner's right to limitation of lia74308-24----28

434

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

bility, but "further involved the nature and amount of
claims which were to be allowed against the fund," which
had not been finally disposed of by the decree. So here,
the action brought by Guimarin & Co. involves not
merely the liability of the defendants on the bond, but
also the amount of the claims which inay be allowed
against the fund created by the bond, which cannot be determined until after further proceedings are had in the
District Court on the remanding of the cause pursuant to
the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
It is well settled that a case may not be brought here by
writ of error or appeal in fragments; that to be reviewable a judgment or decree must be not only nal, but complete, that is, final not only as to all the parties, but as to
the whole subject matter and as to all the causes of action
involved; and that if the judgment or decree be. not thus
final and complete, the writ of error or appeal must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction. Hohorst v. Packet Co.,
148 U. S. 262, 264; Collins v. Miller, 252 U. S. 364, 370;
OneidaNavigation Corporationv. Job, 252 U. S. 52i, 522;
and cases therein cited.
And it is clear that the present case does not come within the seeming exception to this rule that an adjudication
final in its nature as to a matter distinct from the general
subject of the litigation and affecting only the parties to
the particular controversy, may be .reviewed without
awaiting the determination of the general litigation. See
Williams v.- Morgan, 111 U. S. 684, 699, and Collins v.
Miller, supra, p. 371. There has been no final adjudication of the amount which Guimarin & Co. is entitled to
recover on the bond; and, furthermore, its right to a recovery is not distinct from the general subject of the litigation, but involves the determination of questions affecting the intervening creditors, who are likewise parties to
the suit, as well 4s itself, and which, under the statute, are
to be determined in a single action.

BRADY v. WORK.
427

Statement of the Case.

For these reasons-although, as in Oneida Navigation
Corporationv. Job, suprd, the objection was not raised
by the defendant in error -- the writ of error to the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
BRADY, WIDOW, ETC. v. WORK, SECRETARY OF
THE INTERIOR, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 121. Argued December 5, 6, 1923.-Decided January 7, 1924.
1. A person to whom the Land Department has adjudged the right
to a tract of land is an indispensable party to a suit brought in
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia by a defeated
claimant to enjoin the Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner of the General Land Office from issuing the patent, for want
of authority. P. 437.
2. The absence of such a party from the suit is not excused by inability to obtain service, owing to his residence in a State, beyond
the jurisdiction. Id.
3. A decree of the Court of Appeals of the District- of Columbia
affirming a decree of the Supreme Court of the District dismissing
upon a motion a bill disclosing a case in which the'construction and
application of an act of Congress relied on by the plaintiff were
drawn in question by the defendant, is appealable to this Court
under Jud. Code; ยง 250, par 6. Id.
280 Fed. 1017, affirmed.

from a decree of the Court of Appeals of the.
District of Columbia affirming a decree of the' Supreme
Court of the District which dismissed the bill in a sult to
enjoin the appellees from issuing a land patent.
APPEAL

Mr. S. M. Stockslager, with whom Mr. Arthur Mandl
was on the brief, for appellant.
'A motion to dismiss the writ of error, the consideration of which
was passed to the hearing, was based on other grounds.

