OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Counsel for Parties.

263 U. S.

TRINIDAD, INSULAR COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS, v.
SAGRADA ORDEN DE PREDICADORES DE LA
PROVINCIA DEL SANTISIMO ROSARIO DE
FILIPINAS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.

No. 53.

Submitted October 5, 1923.-Decided January 14, 1924.

The Income Tax Act of October 3, 1913, excepted any corporation
"organized and operated exclusively for religious, charitable,
or educational purposes, no part of the net income of
which inures to the benefit of any private stockholder or individual."
Held, that a corporation sole, organized, in the Philippines, for those
purposes, and holding all its property therefor, was not taxable on
income, used exclusively for those purposes, and derived mainly
from 'rents from its lands, interest from its money lent, and
dividends on stocks of private corporations in which its funds were
invested, and in small part from occasional sales of such stocks and
from sales of wine and other articles, piurchased and supplied for use
in its churches, schools and other agencies as an incident to its
work. P. 581.
42 Phil.-Rep. 397. affirmed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Supreme Court of the
Philippines affirming a judgment for the respondent in its
action to recover money paid under protest as a tax on
Income.

Mr. Grant T. Trent, Mr. Logan N. Rock and Mr. F.
Granville Munson for petitioner. Mr. Nelson T. Hartson
was also on the brief. "
Mr. GabrielLa 0 for respondent. Mr. Alfredo Chicote
and Mr. Jos6 Arnaiz were also on the brief.

TRINIDAD v. SAGRADA ORDEN.
578

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE VAN DL-ANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This was an action to recover money paid under protest
as a tax on income. The plaintiff prevailed in the Philippine courts,'both trial and appellate, 42 Phil. 397, and the
case is here on certiorari, 260 U. S. 711.
The tax was levied under paragraphs.G (a) and M of
ยง II of the Act of October 3, 1913, c. 16, 38 Stat. 172, 180,
requiring every corporation, not within defined exceptions,
to pay an annual tax, computed at a specified rate, on its
entire net income from all sources. The exceptions covered, among others, any corporation "organized and operated exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, or
educational purposes, no part of the net income of which
inures to the benefit of any private stockholder or individual." The plaintiff insisted it was within this exception, and the Philippine courts so ruled.
The case was heard on a stipulation stating:
"That the plaintiff is a corporation sole constituted
under sections 154 to 164 of Act No. 1459 of the Philippine
Commission, and is -organized and operated for religious,
benevolent, scientific and educational purposes in these
Islands and in its Missions in China, Cochinchina and
Japan, and that neither its net income nor part of its rents
from w] tever source it may come is applied to the benefit
of any particular stockholder or individual, or of any of
its members, and that nD part of the whole dr 'of some of
its temporal properties *~elong to any of its members, who
have no rights to the same, even in case of dissolution of
the corporation.
"That the dividends and interests or profits and expenses which appear in Exhibit 1 of the defendant as the income of the plaintiff, constitute the income derived from
the investments of the capital of the plaintiff corporation,
which was invested, in the year 1913, nearly in the man-

580

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of th7 Court.

263 U. S.

ner and form specified in Exhibit 2 of the defendant, and
that the rents appearing in Exhibit 1 werelderived from
the properties which together with Ilieir valuations appear
in Exhibit 3 of the defendant"
The second paragraph of-'the stipulation is rather obscure and the exhibits are in a very condensed form, but
all are elucidated by the opinions below and the briefs
here. They mean, when read with these aids, that the
plaintiff has.large properties in the Philippines, consisting
of *real estate, stocks in private corporations and money
loaned at interest, all of which are held and used as sources
from which to obtain funds or revenue for carrying on
its religious, charitable and educational work; that the
bulk of its income consists of rents, dividends and interest
derived from these properties; that the rest of its income
is relatively small and comes from alms for mass, profits
from- occasional. sales of some of its stocks, and sums received, in excess of cost, for wine, chocolate and other articles purchased and supplied for use in its churches, missions, parsonages, schools, and other subordinate agencies.
The proportions in which these several items contributed
to its income for the year covered by the tax in question
are shown in the margin.'
The defendant concedes that the plaintiff is organized
and operated for religious, charitable and ediucational purposes and that no part of its net income inures to the benefit of any stockholder or individual, but contends that
'Rents ...................... (pesos) 90, 092.70
Dividends .........................
Interest ...........................

96,465.54
54,239.19

Sale of stocks ......................
Sale of wine .......................

250.80
2,711.15

Sale of chocolate ................
Sale of other articles ...............

3,219.21
1, 249.10

Alms for mass ....................

6,475.00

(pesos) 254,702. 69

TRINIDAD v. SAGRADA ORDEN.
578

Opinion of the Court.

it is not "operated exclusively" for those purposes, and
therefore is not within the exception in the taxing act.
Stated in another way, the contention is that the plaintiff is operated also for business and commercial'purposes
in that it uses its properties to produce income, and trades
in wine, chocolate and other articles. In effect, the contention puts aside as immaterial the fact that the income from
the properties is devoted exclusively to religious, charitable and educational purposes, and also the fact that the
limited trading, if it can be called such, is purely incidental
to the pursuit of those purposes, and is in no sense a distinct or external venture.
Whether the contention is well taken turns primarily
on the meaning of the excepting clause, before quoted
from the taxing act. Two matters apparent on the face
of the clause go far towards settling its meaning. First,
it recognizes that a corporation may be organized and
operated exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific or
educational purposes, and yet have a net income. Next,
it says nothing about the source of the income, but makes
the destination the ultimate test of exemption.
Evidently the exemption is made in recognition of the
benefit -which the public derives from corporate activities
of the class named, and is intended, to aid them when
not conducted for private gain. Such activities cannot
be carried on without money; and it is common knowledge that they are largely carried on with income received
from properties dedicated to their pursuit. This is particularly true of many charitable, scientific and educational corporations and is measurably true of some religious corporations. Making such properties productive
to the end that the income may be thus used does not
alter or enlarge the purposes for which the corporation
is created and conducted. This is recognized in University v. People, 99 U. S. 309, 324, where this court
said: "The purpose of a college or university is to give

582

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S

youth an education. The money which comes from the
sale or rent of land dedicated to that object aids this
purpose. Land so held and leased is held for school purposes, in the fullest and clearest sense." To the same
effect is Methodist Episcopal Church, South, v. Hinton,
92 Tenn. 188, 200. And in our opinion the excepting
clause, taken according to its letter and spirit, proceeds on
this view of the subject.
The plaintiff, being a corporation sole, has no stockholders. It is the legal representative of an ancient
religious order the members of which have, among other
vows, that of poverty. According to the Philippine law
under which it is created, all of its properties are held for
religious, charitable and educational purposes; and according to the facts stipulated it devotes and applies to
those purposes all of the income-rents, dividends and
interest-from such properties. In using the properties
to produce the income, it therefore is adhering to and
advancing those purposes, and not stepping aside from
them or engaging in a business pursuit.
As respects the transactions in wine, chocolate and
other articles, we think they do not amount to engaging
in trade in any proper sense of the term. It is not claimed
that there is any selling to the public or in competition
with others. The articles are merely bought and supplied for use within the plaintiff's own organization and
agencies,-some of them for strictly religious use and the
others for uses which are purely incidental to the work
which the plaintiff is carrying on. That the transactions
yield some profit is in the circumstances a negligible
factor. Financial gain is not the end to which they are
directed.
Our conclusion is that the plaintiff is organized and
operated exclusively for religious, charitable and educational purposes within the meaning of the excepting
clause.
Judgment affirmed.

