U. S. v. N. Y. CENTRAL R. R.
591

Argument for the United States.

the Court of Appeals that this suit is in effect a suit
against the United States and all of its conditions must
obtain.
Decree affirmed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration or
decision of the case.
UNITED STATES, INTERSTATE COMMERCE
COMMISSION, NATIONAL COUNCIL OF TRAVELING SALESMEN'S ASSOCIATIONS, ET AL. v.
NEW YORK CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 469. Argued January 9, 10, 1024.--Decided January 21, 1924.
1.. Under the Act of August 18, 1922, amending § 22 of the Interstate
Commerce Act, the rates for interchangeable mileage coupon tickets
must be just and reasonable. P. 609.
2. Where the Commission's conclusion that a reduced rate fixed by it
for such tickets was just and reasonable was contradicted by its
findings of fact and was obviously based ,on a misconception of the
amendment as requiring a reduction, held, that the conclusion was
one of lakv and not binding on the court. Id.
288 Fed. 951, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court which enjoined enforcement of an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission requiring the appellee raihrads to issue
scrip coupon tickets at reduced rates.
Mr. Blackburn Esterlinc, Assistant-to the Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Attorney General Daugherty was
on the brief, for the United States.
Laying hold of the following language of the Commission, "The spirit and the apparent theory of the law is

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for the United States.

263 U. S.

that carriers shall be required 'to sell such a ticket at
something less than the standard fare, which would be
just and reasonable' because it would be sold in such
quantities as to stimulate trivel and thereby increase net
revenue

.

.

.

,"

the District Court held " it is clear"

the Commission proeeded on the assumption "that the
spirit and theory of the congressional amefidment required them to order the scrip coupons to be issued at
reduced rates' . . . ." Apparently because of those
words in the report, and that only, the order was annulled.
For a case of such great public importance, this would
seem a narrow and technical -iew on which to overthrow
the order. The District Court assumed that the Commission ignored its own order of August 23, 1922, fixing
a hearing on the question, inter alia, "What rate or rates
shall be established as just and reasonable for each or
either form of ticket? "; that the Commission shut its eyes
to the voluminous testimony and exhibits before it; that
the language of the Commission, "In addition to the obvious spirit of the.law, the record warrants the view that
a coupon ticket at a reasonably reduced fare should be established at least for an experimental period," and "we
further find that the-rates resulting from the reduction will
be just and reasonable for this class of travel," does not
mean what it says.
There is no charge in the petition that the order is
without substantial evidence to support it. The adequacy
of the hearing before the Commission is not questioned.
The history of the times under which Congress acted
must be considered. Reference to committee reports and
debates of senators and representatives is permissible.
Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495; United tates v. TransMissouri FreightAssn., 166 U. S. 290; Standard Oil Co. v.
United States, 221 U. S. 1. See also Holy Trinity Church v.
United States, 143 U. S. 457; Chicago Board of Trade v.
United States, 246 U. S. 231. [Counsel then referred at

U. S. v. N. Y. CENTRAL R. R.
603

605

Argument for the United States.

length to proceedings in the House and Senate; also to
the report of the Commission in this case, and to its
earlier reports on mileage and commutation tickets.]
Charges similar to those here made have already been
exploded in the New England Divisions Case, 261 U. S.
184.
The arguments that the reduced rate is unreasonable
appear to rest on the insecure foundation that, because the
Commission grhnted increased rates in former years, which
it found just and reasonable, any reduced rates, in whatever form, must necessarily be unreasonable, confiscatory,
and void.
It is a new theory that the power of Congress and the
Commission is limited to rate regulation in the sense that
the rate must be made-final in the outset. From the beginning a rate fixed by the Commission or otherwise has
been expressly made subject to recovery after payment
by the shipper when shown to be excessive. Reparation
in large sums has frequently been awarded by the Commission and recovered through the courts.
The amendment should be construed in the light of
Title IV of the Transportation Act.
The reasonableness of a rate when based on substantial
evidence is a question of fact. Nor will the Court consider the weight of the evidence or the wisdom of the
order.
The Commission had the right to look to "the spirit
and apparent theory of the law," and the District Court
erred in holding that it rested its order on that alone.
Atlantic Coast Line R. R. v. Burnette, 239 U. S. 199;
Williams v. United States Fidelity Co., 236 U. S. 549;
United States v. Farenholt,206 U. S. 226; McDougal v.
McKay, 237 U. S. 372; Porto Rico Ry. Co. v. Mor, 253
U. S. 345; Eastern Extension Tel. Co. v. United States,
231 U. S. 326; Interstate Drainage v. Board Commissioners, 158 Fed. 270.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Int. Com. Comm.

263 U. S.

The act of Congress and the order of the Commission
create no new principle unfamiliar to either carriers
passengers in transportation. Commutation Rate Case,
27 I. C. C. 549; Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Baltimore
& Ohio R. R. Co., 145 U. S. 263; Lake Shore ,& Michigan
Southern Ry. Co. v. Smith, '173 U. S. 684; Pennsylvania
R. R. Co. v. Towers, 245 U. S. 6; Intermountain Rate
Cases, 234 U. S. 476, 485, 494.'
The temporary nature of the order, in that it may
undergo a revision after a one-year test, is in favor of
the carriers rather than against them. New England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184, 201.
The order should be made effective, that the companies
may try out the rates ai.d report results to the Commission, thus to establish the facts upon which the rights
of the parties shall ultimately depend. Knoxville v.
Knoxville Water Co., 212 U. S. 1; Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v.
North Dakota, 216 U. S. 579; Missouri Rate Cases, 230
U. S. 474; In re Louisville, 231 U. S. 639; Minnesota Rate
Cases, 230 U. S. 352; Des Moines Gas Co. v. Des Moines,
238 U. S. 153; Stanislaus County v. San Joaquin Co., 192
U. S. 201.
The exemption of certain carriers is not arbitrary.
Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332; Stafford v. Wallace, 258
U. S. 495.
The order does not apply to and include 'transportation of passengers wholly within one State.
Mr. P. J. Farrell for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
The Commission is not, as a matter of law, required to
report the minor facts upon which its conclusions of fact
are based. ManufacturersRy. Co. v. United States, 246
U. S. 457, 489..
The order does not require appellees to perform services for a noncompensatory rate, or to establish and main-

U. S. v. N. Y. CENTRAL R. R.
603

Argument fox Int. Com. Comm.

tain a rate which will be unreasonable, unjustly discriminatory, or unduly preferential and prejudicial.
The order is not in conflict with the duty imposed upon
the Commission by § 15a of the Interstatd Commerce
Act.
The Commission, clearly, would not have made the
order if it had not been convinced that compliance with
its terms- would increase the passenger business of the
appellees and other carriers to an extent sufficient to
more than offset any loss in revenue which would otherwise result from a reduction in the rate of fare.
Where the evidence is such as to justify differences in
opinion, the Court will not sibstitute its judgment for the
judgment of the Commission as to an administrative mat"ter within the Commission's jurisdiction. It will refrain
from interfering until after opportunity has been afforded
for a proper test. Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212
U. S. 19.
The order is not invalid because it requires carriers to
establish between themselves, without their consent, the
relation of principal and agent and creditor and debtor.
Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Riverside Mills, 219
U. S. 186.
The order is not rendered invalid because the interchangeable scrip coupon ticket provided for applies to
transportation regardless of the extent to which the ticket
may be used on a particular line.
The fact that certain carriers are exempted from the operation of the order does not render the order invalid. Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Chicago, Rock Island &
Pacific Ry. Co., 218 U. S. 88.
The order does not apply to the transportation of passengers wholly within one State. The Court will not presume that the Commission "intended to make the order
apply to matters not within its jurisdiction. Texas v.
Eastern.Texas R, R. Co., 258 U. S. 204.

609

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

Mr. Chas. F. Choate, Jr., with whom Mr. Francis 1.
Gowen, Mr. Clyde Brown, Mr. Edward G. Buckland, Mr.
H. A. Taylor,-Mr.Henry Wolf Biklg, Mr. ParkerMcCollester, Mr. Frederick H. Nash and Mr. James Garfield
were on the brief, for appellees.
Mr. Hoke Smith, with whom Mr. Samuel Blumberg,
Mr. Arthur M. Loeb, Mr. Jerome Wilzin and Mr. Charles
Fischerwere on the brief, for National Council of Traveling Salesmen's Associations, 'appellant.
Mr. Leon B. Lamfrom, by leave of Court, filed a brief
as amicus curiae.
Mr. Clifford Thorne and Mr. James W. Good, by leave
of Court, filed a brief as amici curiae.
MR. JusTIcE HOLMEs delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a bill in equity brought by railroad companies
to prevent the enforcement of in order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission dated March 6, 1923, following
reports of January 26 and March 6, 1923. 77 I. C. C. 200.
Ibid. 647. The order purports to be made in pursfiance
of the Act of August 18, 1922, c. 280; 42 Stat. 827. This
act amended § 22 of the Interstate Commerce Act by
adding to what became (1), two paragraphs, viz.: (2),
directing the Commission to require the railroads subject
to the act, with such exemptions as the Cbmmission
holds justified, to issue interchangeable mi]eage or scrip
coupon tickets at just and reasonable rates, in such denominations as the Commission may prescribe, with regulations as to use and prescribing whether the tickets are
transferable or not transferable,' and, if the latter, what
identification- may be required, hnd what baggage privileges go with such tickets; (3) making it a misdemeanor
for any carrier to refuse to issue or accept such tickets

U. S. v. N. Y. CENTRAL R. R.
603

Opinion of the Court.

as required, Dr to conform to the Commission's rules, or
for any person wilfully to offer for sale or carriage any
such tickets contrary to such rules. After a hearing, the
Commission ordered the railroads specified, being all the
railroads having annual operating revenues in excess of
$1,000,000 and known as Class 1, to issue, at designated
offices, a non-transferable, interchangeable, scrip coupon
ticket in the denomination of $90, which shall be sold at
a reduction of 20 per cent. from the face value of the
ticket.
The bill alleges that the amendment of 1922, as construed by the Commission, is contrary to the Fifth
Amendment and to the commerce clause, Art. I, § 8, of
the Constitution, but that, properly construed, it does not
authorize the order made. The order is alleged to apply
to intrastate carriage, and also to be inconsistent with § 2
of the Interstate Commerce Act, which requires like
charges for like service in similar circumstances; with § 3,
forbidding unreasonable preferences; with § 15a., providing for the establishing of rates for rate groups that will
earn a fair return upon the aggregate value of the property used in transportation; (see Increased Rates, 1920,
cited as Ex parte 74, 58 I. C. C..220; Reduced Rates,
1922, 68 I. C. C.,676;) and with §§ 1 and 22, .requiring
the Commission to establish just and reasonable fares.
These averments are developed in detail, but we do not
dwell upon them, because the decision below, and our
own, turn upon a different point. It is further allegee
in the bill that the conclusion stated by the Commission,
that the reduced rates established by it for scrip coupon
tickets will be just and reasonable for that class of travel,
is contrary to the specific facts found by the Commission,
and is not to be taken as an independent finding of fact,
*but only as a conclusion or ruling reached by it upon a
misinterpretation of the law. This was the view taken
by the. ihree judges who sat in the District Court. They
74308'-24--39

610

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

held that the Commission considered that the amendment of 1922 either required it to make a reduction, or
at least showed a spirit and purpose that should be de.ferred to, and on that ground came to a result that otherwise would not have been reached. They held that, therefore, the order could not stand, considering that the
amendment of 1922 like the rest of the Interstate Commerce Act called for an unbiassed opinion upon the merits
of the case. They issued a perpetual injunction, and the
defendants appealed. 288 Fed. 951.
We are of opinion that the interpretation of the statute
in the Court below was right. There is no doubt that
the bill owed its origin to a movement on the part of
travelling salesmen and others to obtain interchangeable
mileage or scrip coupon books at reduced rates. The bill
that was passed originally fixed reduced rates, lut it was
amended to its present form undoubtedly because the
prevailing opinion was that the rates should be determined in the usual way by the usual body. The object
of the travelling salesmen was defeated in so far as
Congress declined to take any step beyond authorizing
the issue of scrip tickets. Coming as it did from the
agitation for this form of reduced fares, the statute naturally enough carried with it more or less mirage of fulfilling the hope that gave it rise, but in fact it required
a determination of what was just and reasonable exactly
as in any otfier case arising under the Interstate Commerce Act. The original purpose of the amendment as
introduced retained headway enough to 'equire the issue
of- scrip, but there the purpose was stopped, and, as not
infrequently happens in legislation, the matter was left
otherwise where it was before. Apart from constitutionial
difficulties,, Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Ry. Co. v.
Smith, 173 U. S. 684, the whole tendency of the law has
been adverse to the enactment as proposed, at least unless
a clear case should be made out.

U. S. v. COFFEE EXCHANGE.
603

Syllabus.

The Commission in its report pointed out that the net
railway operating income for the seven months ending
July 31, 1922, was below the return fixed as reasonable, discarded the supposed analogy between the carload
rate and the interchangeable scrip or mileage ticket, intimated that the supposed benefit that the carrier might
get from the advance use of the money would be more
than offset by the increased expenses, and sa'd that the
question whether the scrip ticket would stimulate travel
sufficiently to meet any loss that might result must remain
a matter of speculation until an experiment was made.
After thus excluding the grounds upon which the order
could be justified the Commission held that the obvious
spirit and apparent purpose of the law required that the
experiment should be tried, and on these premises declared
that the rates resulting from the reduction of 20 per cent.
would be-" just and reasonable for this class of travel."
It seems to us plain that the Commission was not prepared
to make its order on independent grounds apart from the
deference naturally paid to the supposed wishes of Congress. But we think that it erred in reading the wishes
that originated the statute as an effective terni of the
statute that was passed, and therefore that the present
order cannot stand.
Decree affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. NEW YORK COFFEE AND
SUGAR EXCHANGE, INC., ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 331. Argued November 16, 1923.-Decided January 28, 1924.
1. Sales of a commodity, upon an exchange, under contracts calling
for actual delivery in the future- but which in practice are -cleared
by the processes called " matbhing" and "ringing," serve useful

