BRADY v. WORK.
427

Statement of the Case.

For these reasons-although, as in Oneida Navigation
Corporationv. Job, suprd, the objection was not raised
by the defendant in error -- the writ of error to the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
BRADY, WIDOW, ETC. v. WORK, SECRETARY OF
THE INTERIOR, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 121. Argued December 5, 6, 1923.-Decided January 7, 1924.
1. A person to whom the Land Department has adjudged the right
to a tract of land is an indispensable party to a suit brought in
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia by a defeated
claimant to enjoin the Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner of the General Land Office from issuing the patent, for want
of authority. P. 437.
2. The absence of such a party from the suit is not excused by inability to obtain service, owing to his residence in a State, beyond
the jurisdiction. Id.
3. A decree of the Court of Appeals of the District- of Columbia
affirming a decree of the Supreme Court of the District dismissing
upon a motion a bill disclosing a case in which the'construction and
application of an act of Congress relied on by the plaintiff were
drawn in question by the defendant, is appealable to this Court
under Jud. Code; ยง 250, par 6. Id.
280 Fed. 1017, affirmed.

from a decree of the Court of Appeals of the.
District of Columbia affirming a decree of the' Supreme
Court of the District which dismissed the bill in a sult to
enjoin the appellees from issuing a land patent.
APPEAL

Mr. S. M. Stockslager, with whom Mr. Arthur Mandl
was on the brief, for appellant.
'A motion to dismiss the writ of error, the consideration of which
was passed to the hearing, was based on other grounds.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. H. L. Underwood,
Special Assistant to the Attorney. General, appeared for
appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TArr delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This was a bill in equity in the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia brought by Thomas N. Brady
against the Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner of the Land Office, seeking to enjoin them from
issuing a patent to one Lillie S. Harner for a homestead.
The bill avers that William Rattkamner in 1913 made
a homestead entry of certain public land in Arizona, that
in October, 1915, Harry S. Harner filed a contest against'
the entry, tbht Rattkamner made no answer, that'the register and receiver of the local land office cancelled the entry
and awarded a preference right to Harner, December 27,
1918, that on January 1 the plaintiff herein, Brady, made
a homestead entry of.the land, and moved on to the land,
that Harner made no entry under his preference right,
that in February, 1919, one Rudolph Larson illegally made
a homestead entry of the land, that Brady, the plaintiff,
filed a contest, that Lillie S. Harner, deserted wife of
Harry S. Harner, intervened in the same proceeding, that
on the hearing the register and receiver recommended that'
Larson's entry be cancelled and that Lillie S. Harner be
allowed to enter, that.this was appealed from to the Commissioner' of the Land Office, who affirmed the action of
the registe and receiver, and that thereafter Brady filed
a petition for a rehearing before the Secretary of the Interior, which was denied.
* The bill avers that the register and receiver, as well as
the Commissioner of theLand Office and the Secretary of
the Interior, violated the provisions of the Act of May 14,
1880, entitled "An*act for the relief of settlers on public
lands" (21 -Stat. 140, c. 89), and were without authority in
decidingin favor of Lillie S. Harner and propesing to issue
a;-patent to her.

BRADY v. WORK.
435

Opinion of the Court.

The prayer is for an injunction against the issuing of
the proposed patent by the defendants.
The defendants moved to dismiss the bill on the ground
that it asked the court to control the defendants in matters involving exercise of the judgment and discretion
vested in them by law, and also on the ground that Lillie
S. Harner was an indispensable party to this suit. This
motion was granted by the Supreme Court of the District
on both grounds, and that action was affirmed by the.
Court of Appeals.
We think the motion was properly sustained on the
second ground, and do not find it necessary to discuss the
first. Lillie S. Harner is the person whom the administrative officers of the Government have held to be entitled
to a patent for this land. Clearly the controversy between the plaintiff and those officers involving the granting of a patent to her can not be settled without her
presence in court. New Mexico v. Lane, 243 U. S. 52, 58;
Litchfield v. Register and Receiver, 9 Wall. 575, 578. She
is entitled to be heard. Inability to secure service on her
because she lives in Arizona can not -dispense with the
necessity of making her a party.
Dismissal was asked also on the ground that no appehl
lies in a case like this from the District Court of Appeals
to this Court and that we thus have no jurisdiction. We
think, however, that the bill disclosed a case in which the
construction and application of the Act of May 14, 1880,
were drawn in question by the defendant. By the sixth
paragraph of ยง 250 of the Judicial Code we are required
to hear an appeal in such a case.
We, therefore, can not dismiss the appeal for want of
jurisdiction, but can and do affirm the action of the District Court of Appeals in affirming the decree of the Supreme Court of the District in dismissing the bill for lack
of an indispensable party.
Decree affirmed.

