OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

263 U. S.

later date, any more than he can for exciting public feeling
against a judge for what he already has done.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS concurs in this opinion.

SECURITY SAVINGS BANK v. STATE ,OF CALIFORNIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 21.

Submitted October 3, 1923.-Decided November 19, 1923.

1. S:,vings deposits, in a state banking corporation having its place
of business within the State of its creation, are intangible property
subject, like tangible property, to the dominion of the State. P.
285.
2. A state law requiring a bank, through appropriate procedure,
to pay over such deposits, when long unclaimed, to the State as
depositary or by way of escheat, violates no right of the bank
under the contract clause of the Constitution or the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, since the bank's contracts
with the depositors merely give it the use of the money until
called for by proper authority, and payment to the State in obedience to a valid law discharges its obligation to them. Id.
3. The two essentials of jurisdiction in a proceeding by the State to
effect an escheat of such unclaimed deposits, in order that the
depositors may be bound and the bank protected, are seizure of
the res at the beginning pf the suit and reasonable notice and
opportunity to be heard accorded the depositors. P. 287.
4. Under the California statutes here involved, seizure of the res
is accomplished by personal service on the bank, in a suit brought
by the Attorney General in Sacramento County, and due notice is
given the depositors by publication in that county of a summons,
with a notice, also, to all other persons to appear and show cause
why. the money should not be deposited with the State Treasurer.
Id.
5. Prooi by affidavit that personal service on depositors is impossible or impracticable is not a constitutional prerequisite to service
by publication in such an escheat proceeding, where the depositors
impleaded are only those who are not known t- Ole bank officials
to be alive, whose accounts have not been added to or drawn

SECURITY BANK v. CALIFORNIA.
282

Opinion of the Court.

upon for twenty years, and who have not filed with the bank,
within that time, any notice or claim giving their then residences.
P. 288.
6. In view of other statutes requiring savings banks in California to
publish at their several locations annual notices'of deposits not
added to or drawn upon during the preceding ten years, with the
name, last known residence and other particulars concerning the
depositor, this Court cannot say that the escheat statute, in providing for publication of summons in escheat proceedings at
Sacramento County only, was unreasonable. P. 289.
186 Cal. 419, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of California affirming a judgment of escheat of bank deposits
in suit of the State agaipst the Savings Bank and the
depositors.
Mr. Edwvard J. McCutchen, Mr. Warren Olney, Jr., and
Mr. A. Crawford Greene for plaintiff in error.
Mr. U. S. Webb, Attorney General of the State of California, for defendant in error. Mr. Frank L. Guerena,
Deputy Attorney General, was also on the brief.
MR. JUsTIcE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.

This suit was brought by the State of California to have
transferred to it certain deposits in the Security Savings
Bank which had been unclaimed for more than twenty
years; and to have these declared escheat. The bank and
the depositors were -named as defendants. The bank
was served personally and defended. The depositors were
served by publication; but none of them appeared.' The
'As to two depositors originally named as defendants a dismissal
was entered by stipulation. As to one, because it appeared that the
deposit had not been unclaimed for the twenty years; as to the other,
beca'rise a claim had been made by the administrator, since th3 expiration of the twenty years.

284

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

bank is a California corporation and has its only place of
business there. The last known residences of the depositors are not stated. All the proceedings were in conformity with § 1273 of the California Code of Civil Procedure
and § 15 of its Bank Act,.Stat. 1915, c. 608, p. 1106. A
judgment for the plaintiff was affirmed by the highest
court of the State. State v. Security Savings Bank, 186
Cal. 419. The case is here on writ of error under § 237
of the Judicial Code as amended. The question for decision is whether the statutes violate rights guaranteed a
state bank by the Federal Constitution.2 It is claimed
that they are obnoxious to both the contract clause and
the due process clause.
The substantive provision of the legislation is this: If
a bank account has not been added to or drawn upon by
the depositot. for more than twenty years and no one
claiming the money has, within that period, filed with the
bank any notice showing his present residence; and the
president or managing officer of the bank does not know
that the depositor is alive; then the bank shall, upon entry
of a judgment establishing these facts, deposit with the
state treasurer the amount of the deposit and accumulations. The suit cannot be begun until after the expiration of the twenty years. The statute does not effect an
immediate escheat upon the lapse of the twenty years.
It provides for taking over the deposit when so adjudged
in the action. A valid claim to a deposit duly made at
any time prior to entry of the judgment prevents its transfer to the State. Mathewsy. Savings Union Bank & Trust
Co., 43 Cal. App. 45, 48. State v. Savings Union Bank &
Trust Co., 186 Cal. 294, 298.
The procedural provision is this: The suit is brought by
the attorney general in Sacramento County. Upon the
bank, personal service'must be made. Upon the depos2That the statutes are invalid as applied to national banks was

settled in First National Bank v. California,262 U. S. 366.

SECURITY BANK v. CALIFORNIA.
282

Opinion of the Court.

itors, service is to be made by publication of the summons
for four weeks in a newspaper of general circulation published in that county. With the summons a notice must
also be published requiring all persons other than the
named defendants, to appear and show cause why the
moneys involved in the suit shall not be deposited with
the state treasurer. Any person interested may become
a party to the suit. The judgment to be entered requires
the "banks to forthwith deposit all such moneys with the
state treasurer, to be received, invested,. accounted for and
paid out in the same manner and by the same officers as
is provided in the case of other escheated property." -For
a period of five years after entry of the judgment any
person not a "party or privy" to it may sue the State to
recover the money so received. In the case of infants and
persons of unsound mind, the period is-extended for one
year after removal of the disability. Code of Civil Procedure, § 1272.
The unclaimed deposits are debts due by a California
corporation with its place of business there. State v.
Anglo & London ParisNational Bank, 186 Cal. 746, 753;
State v. Security Savings Bank, 186 Cal. 419, 423. The
debts arose out of contracts made and to be performed
there. Farmers & Merchants Bank v. Federal Reserve.
Bank, 262 U. S. 649, 660. Thus the deposits are clearly
intangible property within the State
Over this intangible property -the State has the same dominion that it
has over tangible property. Pennington v. Fourth National Bank, 243 U. S. 269; Bank of Jasper v. First National Bank, 258 U. S. 112, 119. It was settled in Provident Institutionfor Savings v. Malone, 221 U. S. 660, -that,
where the procedure is appropriate, neither the due process clause, nor any right of the bank under the contract'
clause, is violated by a law requiring it to pay over to the
'See Charles E. Carpenter, "Jurisdiction over Debts, etc.," 31
Harv. Law Rev. 905.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

State as depositary savings deposits which have long re-.
mained'unclaimed. Compare Cunnius v. Reading Schonl
District, 198 U. S. 458; Blinn v. Nelson, 222 U. S. 1. The
contract of deposit does not give the banks a tontine right
to retain the moiey in the event that it is not called for by
the depositor. It gives the bank merely the right to use
the depositor's money until called for by him or some other
person duly authorized. If the deposit is turned over to
the State in obedience to a valid law, the obligation of the
bank to the depositor is discharged. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Deer, 200 U. S. 176. It is no concern of
the bank's whether the State receives the money merely
as depositary Qr takes it as an escheat.
The bank's main contention is that it is denied due
process because, owing to defects in the prescribed procedure, depositors will not be bound by the judgment;
and, hence, that payment to the State will not discharge
the bank from its liability to them. The argument that
there is no proper provision for service upon depositors or
other claimants is this: If the proceeding is in personam,
the law is invalid as to*non-residents of the State, since
they are served only by publication; and it is invalid as
to residents, because they are served by publication without a prior showing of the necessity for such service. If
the proceeding is quasi in rem, the law is invalid as to all depositors and clainants, because there is no seizure of
the res, or its equivalent; because the notice provided for
is inadequate and unreasonable; and because it is binding
only on parties to the action. If the proceeding is strictly
in rem the law is invalid, because it does not provide for
such seizure of the res, nor give reasonable notice to
depositors and claimants.
The proceeding is not one in personam-at least, not
so far as concerns the depositor. The State does not seek
to enforce any claim against him. It seeks to have the
deposit transferred. The suit determines the custody

SECURITY BANK v. CALIFORNIA.
282

Opinion of the Court.

(and perhaps the ownership) of the deposit. The state
court likened the proceeding to garnishment, arid thought
that it should be described as quasi in rem. In form it
resembles garnishment. In substance it is like proceedings in escheat, Hamiltonv. Brown, 161 U. S. 256, 263;
Christianso- v. King County, 239 U. S. 356, 373; for
confiscation, The Confiscation Cases, 20 Wall. 92, 104;
for forfiture, Friedensteinv. United States, 125 U. S. 224,
230, 231; for condemnation, Huling v. Kaw Valley. Ry.,
etc., Co.; 130 U. S. 559; for registry of titles, American
Land Co. v. Zeiss, 219 U. S. 47; and libels for possession
brought by the Alien Property Custodian, Central Union
Trust Co. v. Garvan, 254 U. S. 554. These are generally
considered proceedings strictly in rem. But whether the
proceeding should be described as being in rem or as being
qvasi in rem is not of legal significance in this connection.
In either case the essentials of jurisdiction over the de-posits are that there be seizure of the res at the coinmencement of the suit; and reasonable notice and opportunity to be heard. Compare Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S
714, 724; Freemanv. Alderson, 119 U. S. 185, 187; Arndt
v. Griggs, 134 U. S. 316; Overby. v. Gordon, 177 U. S.
,214, 231. These requirements are satisfied by the procedure prescribed in the statutes of California. There is
a seizure or its equivalent. And the published summons
to*the depositors named as parties defendant is supplemented by the notice directed to all claimants whomsoever.
Moreover, there is no constitutional objection to considering the proceeding as in personam, so far as concerns the
bank; as quasi in rem, so far as concerns the depositors;
and as strictly in rem, so far as concerns other claimants.4
Seizure of the deposit is effected by the personal Ljrvice
made.upon the bank. Provident InstitutionjorSavings
v. Malone, 221 U. S. 660. Thereby the res is subjected
'Compare Newell v. Norton, 3 Wall. 257; The Sabine, 1Q1 U. S.
384; Waples, Proceedings in Rem (1882), Pr 75S-76S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S:

to the jurisdiction of the court. Compare Miller v.
United States, 11 Wall. 268, 297, 298; Alexandria v. Fairfax, 95 U. S. 774, 779. The service upon the bank has the
same effect as had servi~e of the injunction in Pennington
v. Fourth National Bank, 243 U. S. 269; or the service
upon the garnishee in Harris v. Balk, 198 U. S. 215, 223;
or the application for administration of the debt due an
absentee in Cunnius v. Reading School District, 198 U. S.
458; or the levy of the writ and return of the fact to the
court on attachment of the real estate in Cooper v.
Reynolds, 10 Wall. 308. The fact that the claim of the
State to the deposit may be defeated by the appearance
of the debtor or other claimant does not, as argued, prove
that he deposit was not seized. An attachment of real
estate is a seizure, although it may be dissolved by bankruptcy or otherwise.
The statutory service is reasonable; and the court is
required to hear any one who may appear in the suit.
The objections urged to the notice are not that insufficient
time is allowed for entering an appearance, as in Roller v.
Holly, 176 U. S. 398, and Goodrich v. Ferris, 214 U. S.
71, or that the contents of the notice fail to convey the
required information, as in Grannis v. Ordean, 234 U. S.
385. The objections taken are to the order and the place
of publication. It is urged that the notice is insufficient,
because service may not be made by publication until it
has been shown by affidayit that personal service is iq;.
possibk, or impractical. Such an affidavit is a 'common
requirement in statutes providing for service 'by publication ori absent defendants. Compare Romig v. Gillett,
187 U. S. 111; Jacob v. Roberts, 22 3 U. S. 261. But it
is not constitutionally indispensable. The reason for
requiring the affidavit is that ordinarily, personal service would be more likely to acquaint a defendant with the
pendency of the suit. But here the general facts which
underlie the legislation establish the futility of such a re-

SECURITY BANK v. CALIFORNIA
282-

Opinion of the Court.

quirement. 'It may be that in California banks usually
endeavor to ascertain the whereabouts. of depositors whose
accounts have remained dormant for many years. The
statute applies only to deposits in the name of a person
who is not known to the president or managing officer
of the bank to be alive, whose account has not been added,
to or drawn upon for twenty years, and who has not filed
within that time -any notice or claim giving his then residence. The legislature evidently assumed that it would
be impossible to serve such depositors personally. The
Supreme, Court of the State held that the legislature was
warranted in this assumption. The.owners of the deposits
were, therefore, tifeated like persons unknown. Compare
Leigh v. Green, 193 U. S. 79. We cannot say that the
view entertained by the legislature and the state courts
was so unreasonable as to constitute a denial of due
process.
It is further argued that the publication prescribed is
not reasonable notice, because it is made in Sacramento
County, instead of in the county in which the bank is
located. The legislature apparently assumed that publication in Sacramento County would be more likely to
attract the attention of the depositor, or of those claiming under him, than publication in the city in which the
bank was located. Support for that opinion may be
found in the statutes which have required savings banks
(and later all banks) to publish annually in a newspaper
of the city in which it is located a statement showing
the amount of each deposit therein, the name and last
known residence of each depositor, and the fact of his
death, if known, in all cases where the depositor has not
made a deposit or withdrawal for ten years next preceding, unless the depositor is known to be living or the
deposit is less than fifty dollars. Stats. 1893, p. 183; Stats.
1897, p. 27. Civil Code, § 583b. Such annual publica74308o_24 1_19'

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

tions, if seen, would be apt to remind a depositor of his
account, even if he were not named therein. And if he
had died, it might serve as a reminder, or as a suggestion,
to his next of kin. The fact that, after nine, or more,
such publications in the local newspaper, a deposit remains unclaimed, affords the legislature some basis for
thinking that the further publication provided for" in
these proceedings would be more apt to accomplish the
purpose of actual service, if made in the county in which
the state capital is located. The highest court of the
State deemed the prescribed publication in Sacramento
County reasonable notice. We have no ground for saying that it was not. Obviously the question "is one of
local experience on which this court ought to be very slow
to declare that the state legislature was wrong in its facts"
or abised its discretion. Patsone v. Pennsylvania, 232
U. S. 138, 144; Adams v. Milwaukee, 228 U. S.572, 583.
In the opinion below it was suggested that the statute
may be construed as permitting a depositor, although
named as defendant in the attorney general's suit, to make
claim as against the State, under § 1272, at any time
within the five years (or the extended period) after final
judgment, if he did not appear in the suit. As no depositor had appeared, the point was not passed upon; and
the state court expressly left open the rights of depositors and their privies in respect to escheat. State v.
Security Savings Bank, 186 Cal. 419, 431. We have no
occasion to consider them.
'Affirmed.

