McCONAUGHEY v. MORROW.
29

39

Syllabus.

For these reasons, we think that the demurrer to the
answer should have been overruled.
Judgment reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings.
McCONAUGHEY, FOR HIMSELF AND OTHERS,
EMPLOYEES OF THE PANAMA CANAL AND OF
THE PANAMA RAILROAD COMPANY,. v. MORhROW, GOVERNOR OF THE PANAMA CANAL,
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 48.

Submitted October 4, 1923.-Decided November 12, 1923.

1. In a suit in the United States District Court for the Canal Zone
to restrain the Governor and other officials of the Panama Canal
from carrying out an order of the President, upon the ground that
plaintiffs will thereby be deprived of personal or property rights
contrary to the federal laws and Constitution, an objection that the
suit is in effect against the United States does not raise a question
of the jurisdiction of the trial court as a federal court reviewable
directly by this Court under Jud. Code, § 238, as amended January 28, 1915. P. 41.
2. The Act of September 21, 1922, providing that review by the Circdit Court of Appeals,-Fifth Circuit, of judgments of the District
Court for the Cagal Zone shall include all questions of jurisdiction,
was expressly inapplicable to cases then pending in the former
court, and, by implidration, does not affect a case which had passed
through that court and was pending here on appeal from its judgment at the date of the act. P. 42.
3. The Panama Canal Act of August 24, 1912, in declaring "That
all laws, orders, regulations, and ordinances adopted and promulgated in the Canal Zone by order of the President for the government and sanitation of the Canal Zone and the construction of the
Panama Canal are hereby ratified and confirmed as valid and
binding until Congress shall otherwise provide," refers to regulations, etc., rising to the dignity of laws, for the purposes named,
and didnot divest the Prcsident of power to revoke previous ad-

40

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

ministrative orders and regulations, such as those allowing free
quarters, fuel, electric current, water, etc., to government employees.- P. 43.
4. Under the Act of March 4, 1907, debts owing the Government of
Panama by government employees were deductible from their
pay. P. 49.
279 Fed. 617, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree of the United States District Court for
the Canal Zone, which dismissed the bill in a suit of a
government employee in the Zone to restrain the Governor and other officials of the Canal from effectuating an
order of the President making them chargeable with rent,
fuel, etc.
Mr. Harry A. Hegarty and Mr. John N. Breen for
appellant.
Mr. G. H. Martin for appellees.
MR. C2HIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the ppinion of the
Court.
This was a complaint iIlect m the United States District Court for the Canal Zone by Harvey McConaughey
in behalf of himself and of all other Government employees occupying Government quarters in the Zone,
against the Governor, Auditor and Paymaster of the.
Panama Canal, charging that the defendants were about
to make a charge against complainants for rent, fuel,'
electric current, water and services in connection with
their quarters on and after January 1, 1922, and in case
of non-payment to deduct the-same.,-from their lawful
pay or to oust them from their'quarters, allin pursuance
of and' compliance with an brder of the Presi-ent of
December 3, 1921, issued without legal authority andinvalid because in conflict with the Constitution an& laws
of the United States.

McCONAUGHEY v. MORROW.
39

Opinion of the Court.

The defendants made a motion to quash the order to
show cause which had been issued against them and to
dismiss the bill, because the case was one in effect against
the United States, and because it sought to control the
executive discretion vested by law and the Constitution
in the President and his subordinates. The court sustained the motion, finding that the order of December 3,
1921, was within the legal authority of the President
and under that order the defendants had the discretion
to adopt the regulations, enforcement of which it was
sought in the bill to enjoin.
An appeal was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Fifth Circuit under § 9 of the Act of Congress of
August 24, 1912, c. 390, 37 Stat. 560, 566. A motion to
dismiss the appeal was made in the Circuit Court of Appeals, on the ground that it was based solely on a question of jurisdiction and therefore should have come directly to this Court on a certificate of jurisdiction under
§ 238 of the Judicial Code, as amended January 28, 1915,
c. 22, 38 Stat. 804. The Circuit Court of Appeals held
that the case did not present a question of jurisdiction
of the District Court within § 238, that that section applied only to a question of the court's jurisdiction of the
parties or subject matter as a federal court, and that no
such issue had been raised here.
We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals in this
view. There is no doubt of the general jurisdiction of
the District Court of the Canal Zone as a court of general
jurisdiction to hear a suit brought by one resident of the
Zone against another upon whom personal service can be
had, in respect of any property or personal right of the
plaintiff. The question here was whether the court could
grant an equitable remedy against an officer of the Canal
when, as asserted, it would in effect be an injunction
against the United States. This was not a question of
jurisdiction appealable direct to this Court. As was said

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

in Fore River Shipbuilding Company v. Hagg, 219 U. S.
175, 178:
"This court has had frequent occasion to determine
what is meant in the statute providing for review of cases
'in which the jurisdiction of the court is in issue, and it
has been held that the statute means to give a review, not
of the jurisdiction of the court upon general grounds of
law or procedure, but of the jurisdiction of the court as
a Federal court." See also Louisville Trust Company
v. Knott, 191 U. S. 225; Bache v. Hunt, 193 U. S. 523.
By -the Act of September 21, 1922, c. 370, § 3, 42 Stat.
1004, 1006, amending § 9, it is provided that review by
the Circuit Court of Appeals of the judgments and decrees of the District Court of the Canal Zone shall include
all questions of jurisdiction, thus making § 238 of the
Judicial Code thereafter inapplicable to cases coming up
from that couft. The amendment, however, by its terms
did not affect cases then pending in the Court of Appeals
and provided that they were to be disposed of as if it had
not been enacted. The present case was pending in this
Court at the time, and we can not suppose, in view of the
saving clause as to cases which had reached the Circuit
Court of Appeals, that the act was intended to have any
effect upon cases which had passed through the Circuit
Court of Appeals and had been lodged here. We must
deal with this case, therefore, as if the amendment of
September 21, 1922, had not been passed. Under either
statute, however, the whole case is before us on the sufficiency of the complaint presented below by the motion
of the defendants to dismiss it.
The claim of the appellant is that he and those for
whom he sues were employees of the Government engaged
in and about its work in respect to the construction and.
operation of the Canal, that while the Isthmian Canal
Commission was carrying on this task under the President,
it had been its policy to furnish Government employees

McCONAUGHEY v. MORROW.
39

Opinion of the Court.

quarters free of rent, that this policy was finally embodied in a regulation of the Commission effective April
1, 1907, as follows:
"Whenever practicable and in the best interest of the
service, an employee will be provided with such quarters
on the Isthmus as may be available from time to time ",
and that thereafter, by proper orders, free fuel electric
current and other service were allowed to employees in
Government quarters.
These orders and regulations were in force when the
Panama Canal Act was passed August 24, 1912; c. 390,
37 Stat. 560, containing as its second section the following:
"That all laws, orders, regulations, and ordinances
adopted and promulgated in the Canal Zone by order of
the President for the government and sanitation of the
Canal Zone and the construction of the Panama Canal are
hereby ratified and confirmed as valid and binding until
Congress shall otherwise provide."
Appellant contends that as all the regulations of the
Commission were authorized by the President and unless
revoked were to be taken as confirmed by him, they were
by the § 2 just quoted made into an act of Congress
and thereafter could not be revoked or amended save by
another act of Congress otherwise providing. Hence, it is
claimed that the Commission's regulation of April 1, 1907,
with its succeeding orders on the same subject, has all the
force of an act of Congress not to be amended by the President, and that by its terms all employees are entitled to
free quarters and to the other privileges.
The force to be given to this claim depends primarily
on the proper construction of § 2 of the Panama Canal
Act of 1912, and that needs for its reasonable interpretation a short consideration of its legislative history.
On June 28, 1902, c. 1302, 32 Stat. 481, Congress
passed a law entitled "An Act To provide for the, con-"..
struction of a canal connecting the waters of the Atlantic.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

and Pacific oceans", and known as the Spooner Act. It
authorized the purchase of the rights of the New Panama
Canal Company of France in the uncompleted canal and
its holdings of the stock of the Panama Railroad Company
and of the right of way from the government of Colombia,
and enabled and directed the President to build and complete the canal, and for this purpose gave him authority
to employ such persons as he might deem necessary and to
fix their compensation. The act created a Commission
through. whom the President was to do the work, and provided for the issue of bonds to pay for the purchase and
construction prqvided in the act. Thereafter Panama revolted from Colombia and was recognized by the United
States, and on November 18, 1903, made a treaty with the
United States (33 Stat. 2234) granting a right of way and
transferring perpetual control of the Canal Zone to the
United States for the construction of the Canal, which the
United States undertook to build and operate. By Act of
April 28, 1904, c. 1758, 33 Stat. 429, Congress provided
for the payments to be made under the Treaty and the
contract with the French Panama Canal Co., authorized
the President, after such payments, to take possession of
•the territory conveyed by the tfeaty for canal purposes,
and established the Zone conveyed as "The Canal Zone."
Section 2 provided as follows:
"That until the expiration of the Fifty-eighth Congress,
unless provision for the temporary government of the
Canal Zone be sooner made by Congress, all the military,
civil, and judicial powers as well as the power to make
all rules and regulations necessary for the government of
the Canal Zone and all the rights, powers, and- authority
granted by the terms of said treaty to the United States
shall be vested in such person or persons and shall be
exercised ini such manner as the President shall direct for
the government of said Zone and maintaining and protecting the inhabitants thereof in the free enjoyment of
their liberty, property, and religion."

McCONAUGHEY v. MORROW.
39

Opinion of the Court.

Under this act, the President took possession of the
Zone and directed that the Canal should be constructed
and the Zone governed by him through the Panama Canal
Commission under the supervision of the Secretary of
War. Letter of President to Secretary of War, May 9,
1904. Executive Orders relating to Panama Canal, page
20. Executive Order dated November 17, 1906. Idem,
page 55. A government was organized, a modus vivendi
was agreed to with the government of Panama, and the
construction of the Canal was carried on. A Governor of
the Canal was appointed, courts were established and complete rules and regulations having the force of law were
duly adopted and enforced. Law and order were thus
maintained, persons violating these regulations Were
prosecuted and convicted, and the construction of the
Canal was much aided by the governmental control exercised by the same body that carried on the great work.
A volume of Canal laws thus enacted and a volume of
Executive Orders relating to the Canal were published by
the Canal authorities.
It will be noted that the second section of the Act of
April 28, 1904, by which the President was authorized to
establish a government in the Canal Zone and was given
legislative power therein, was expressly limited in its
duration to the expiration of the Fifty-eighth Congress,
which occurred on the 4th of March, 1905. On March
6, 1905, the Secretary of War telegraphed the Governor
of the Canal Zone, "Government of the Canal Zone will
be continued to be administered in obedience to the laws
of the United States in force in that territory, the Executive Orders heretofore issued, and the laws of the Canal
Zone enacted by the Isthmian Canal Commission during
the period the Commission was authorized under Act of
Congress approved April 28, 1904, to exercise the power
of legislation." (Treaties and Acts of Congress Relating
to PanamaXtanal, Annotated, page 35, note). Between

46

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

1905 and 1912, when the Canal Act already cited was
passed, there was no express legislation looking to the
continuance of the powers of the -President under the Act
of April 28, 1904. The existence of the Government of
the Canal Zone after March 4, 1905, was, however, recognized in appropriations for the payment of its employees
and other of its expenses for 1906 (34 St. 762), for 1907
(34 St. 1370), for 1908 (35 St. 386), for 1909 (35 St. 1026),
for 1910 (36 St. 772) and for 1911 (36 St. 1450). On
January 21, 1907, the Secretary of War asked the Attorney General whether the power of the President to make
laws in the Zone, conferred in the Act of April 28, 1904,
had ceased. at the close of the Fifty-eighth Congress, so
that no further legiglation could be adopted or existing
legislation modified. The answer was that the provision
in the law of 1904 was merely declaratory of what would
have been the authority and duty of the President growing out of the Treaty and the Spooner Act, even if the
Act of 1904 had not been enacted, that new legislation
might be adopted by the President, and that Congress'
acquiescence in, and approval of, the Government as carried on could be inferred from its appropriations to pay
the Canal Government's expenses. Opinions of Attorneys
General, vol. 26, p. 113. So the government of the Zone
went on. Nevertheless, its legality was from time to time
questioned, and on March 19, 1908, the House of Representatives passed a resolution asking the President that
it be informed by what authority of law he exercised the
functions of government in the Panama Canal Zone since
the expiration of the Fifty-eighth Congress. 42 Congressional Record 3592. This was answered by the President
in a message of April 4, 1908 (42 Congressional Record
4387), by stating the same grounds as those contained in
the opinion of the Attorney General, already referred to.
In his annual message of December 21, 1911 (Messages
and Papers of the Presidents, Vol. XVII, pp. 7681, 7687).

McCONAUGHEY v. MORROW.
39

Opinion of the Court.

the President, in announcing the probable completion of
the Canal in 1913, said:
"The fact is that today there is no statutory law by
authority of which the President is maintaining the government of the Zone. Such authority was given in an
amendnrent to the Spooner Act, which expired by the
terms of its own limitation some years ago. Since that
time the government has continued, under the advice of
the Attorney General that, in the absence of action by
Congress, there is necessarily an implied authority on
the part of the Executive to maintain a government in
a territory in which he has to see that the laws are executed. The fact that we have been able thus to get
along during the important days of construction with-'
out legislation expressly formulating the government of
the Zone, or delegating the creation of it to the President,
is not a reason for supposing that we may continue the
same kind of government after the construction is
finished. The implied authority of the President to
maintain a civil government in the Zone may be derived
from the mandatory direction given him in the original
Spooner Act, by which he was commanded to build the
Canal; but certainly, now that the Canal is about to be
completed and to be put under a permanent management,
there ought to be specific statutory authority for its
regulation and control and for the government of the
Zone, which we hold for the chief and main purpose of
operating the Canal."
From this review of the history of the Canal Zone government, the purpose .of Congress in enacting the second
section of the Canal Act of 1912 must be apparent.
There had been no lack of authority in the President after
the Spooner Act to build the Canal and employ those who
were to do the work. The defect was, in the lack of -definite authority to create a government, make laws and
enforce them, and this had to .be spelled out.' Congfess.

-.48

OCTOBER TERM, 192a.
Opinion of tle Court. .

263 U. S.

deemed it wise, therefore, as it certainly was, to ratify
and confirm everything two Presidents had done in carrying on government and making and enforcing law in the
Zone. It is in the light of this that the second section
must be interpreted. The section confirms "all laws,
orders, regulations, and ordinances adopted and promulgated in the Canal Zone by order of the President for the
Government and sanitation of the Canal Zone and the
construction of the Panama Canal." This means laws
needed and enacted to constitute the government, promote sanitation and generally aid the construction of the
Canal. It was intended to ratify that as to the validity
of which' doubt had been expressed. It was only those
regulations which rose to the dignity of laws which required ratification. To give the construction to § 2 contended for by appellant would lead to a most absurd
result in view of its closing words which ratified and confirmed such laws, rules, regulations and ordinances "as
valid and binding until Congress shall otherwise provide."
This would be to put innumerable administrative orders
and rules adopted in the work, which were necessarily
subject to change from time to time as conditions changed
and the work progressed, into a strait-jacket, entirely
inconsistent with .the broad authority of the President
granted in the Spooner Act and renewed in § 4 of the
same Canal Act of 1912, as follows:
"That when in the judgment of the President the construction of the Panama Canal shall be sufficiently advanced' toward completion to render further services of
the -Isthmian Canal Commission unnecessary the President is authorized by Executive order to discontinue the
Isthmian Canal Commission, which, together with the
present organization, shall then cease to exist; and the
President is authorized thereafter to complete, govern,
and operate the Panama Canal and govern the Canal
Zone, or cause them to be completed, governed :a
oper-

McCONAUGHEY v. MORROW.
39

Opinion of the Court.

ated, through a governor of the Panama Canal and such
other persons as he may deem competent to discharge the
various duties connected with the completion, care, maintenance, sanitation, operation, government, and protection of the canal and Canal Zone."
In 1914 the President discontinued the Commnission,
and appointed a Governor. On January 15, 1915, he
issued an executive order announcing that the policy of
furnishing quarters, fuel and electric current free to all
employees was revocable, conferred no vested right upon
employees and its future revocation would not be made
the basis for increasing compensation. Ex. Order No.
2118-Executive Orders Relating to Panama Canal, Annotated, page 207. Certainly, after this, the*appellant
can not claim that he and those on whose behalf he sues
were misled into accepting employment on the faith of.
the maintenance of these privileges. Six years thereafter
the President made the order here complained of-, directing that the charges imposed therein upon employees
should be deducted from their pay. The right to deduct
from their pay debts owing to the Government by Panama employees was expressly conferred by the eighth
section of the Act of March 4, 1907, c. 2918, 34 Stat. 1371.
The President's order was therefore valid in all respects.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the so-called
regulation of 1907 in its form and language was only a
declaration of revoca.ble policy and on its face was not a
rule capable of being stiffened into binding legislation
under § 2 of the Canal Act. We have, however, preferred to put our conclusion o'n the broader ground that
the subject matter of the regulation was not covered by
the section.
The motion -to dismiss was properly granted by the
District Court and its decree was properly affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals.
Affirmed.
74308°-24-4

