DIRECTOR GENERAL v. KASTENBAUM.
22

25

Statement of the Case.

Pythias, 225 U. S. 246. This is familiar as to the substantive law and for the same reasons it is necessary to
see that local practice shall not be allowed to put unreasonable obstacles in the way. See American Ry. Express Co. v. Levee, decided this day, ante, 19.
The Transportation Act, 1920, February 28, 1920, c.
91, § 206, (a) and (d); 41 Stat. 456, 461, 462, in no way
invalidates a defence good when it was passed.
Judgment reversed.

DIRECTOR GENERAL OF RAILROADS v. KASTENBAUM.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
NEW YORK.

No. 39. Argued October 3, 4, 1923.-Decided November 12, 1923.
Under § 10 of the Federal Control Act, an action for false imprisonment may be maintained against the Director General of Railroads
by a person, who, at the instigation of railroad det ?ctives, (agents

of the Director General,) acting without probable cause, was
arrested without warrant for a theft of freight from the railroad
while under federal control. P. 27.
198 App. Div. 966; 199 id. 957, affirmed.
CERTIORARI to the Supreme Court of New York to review a judgment for damages recovered by the respondent
from the petitioner in an action for false imprisonment.
The judgment was affirmed by the Appellate Division and
leave to appeal to the Court of Appeals was denied.

Mr. Thomas R. Wheeler, with whom Mr. Lyman M.
Bass was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Israel G. Holender for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUsTICE TAFT

Court.

delivered the opinion of the

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1923
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

-Respondent brought an action in the Supreme Court
of Erie County, New York, against the Director General
of Railroads, seeking damages for false imprisonment and
malicious prosecution. The trial court, at the close of the
plaintiff's case, dismissed the~cause of action for malicious
prosecution, but allowed the trial to proceed to verdict
and judgment for $500- for false imprisonment. The
judgment was affirmed by the Appellate Division of the
Supreme Court and a motion for leave to appeal was
denied by the Court of Appeals of the State.
The brief for petitioner on the merits states the single
question to be:
Does an action for. false arrest lie against the petitioner,
an officer of the United States Government, under the
provisions of § 10 of the Act of Congress of March 21,
1918, c. 25, 40 Stat. 451, providing for federal.control of
carriers?
Twenty-one tubs of butter were taken from a freight
car of the Lehigh Valley Railroad in Buffalo. A trolley
car of that. city, late at night, collided with a horse and
wagon and, in the wreck which followed, the stolen tubs
of butter were discovered. Two'men who had been driving the wagon escaped. The detective force of the railway company sought to discover the owner of the horse
and thought they had traced the ownership to Kastenbaum, who was a huckster. The railroad detective notified the police authorities of the city, who detailed two
policemen to accompany him to Kastenbaum's house,
where they arrested him without warrant. They took
him to a police station and kept him there over night and
until he was released the next day on bail. He was
brought to a hearing before an examining magistrate on
a charge of grand lardeny and burglary. After four or
five adjournments, at the instance of the prosecution, the
inagistrate discharged Kastenbaum. His horse proved to
be one of another color. -Under the charge of the court

DIRECTOR GENERAL v. KASTENBAUM.
25

27

Opinion of the Court.

the jury were permitted to return only compensatory
damages.
Section 10 of the Federal Control Act provides:
"That carriers while under Federal control shall be
subject to all laws and liabilities as common carriers,
whether arising under State or Federal laws or at common
law, except in so far as may be inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any other act applicable to such
Federal control or with any order of the President.
Actions at law or suits in equity may be brought by and
against such carriers and judgments rendered as now provided by law; and in any action at law or suit in equity
against the carrier, no defense shall be made thereto upon
the ground that the carrier is an instrumentality or agency
of the Federal Government."
By General Order No. 50, the Executive so, limited suits
to be brought against carriers for injuries to person or
property under the section as to exclude those for recovery of fines, penalties and forfeitures.
As we said in Missouri Pacific R. R. Co. v. Ault, 256
U. S. 554, 563:
"The Government undertook as carrier to observe all
existing laws; it undertook to compensate any person injured through a departure by its agents or servants from
their duty under such law; but it did not undertake to
punish itself for any departure by the imposition upon
itself of fines and penalties or to permit any other sovereignty to punish it."
The action for false imprisonment is in the nature of a
trespass for a wrong or illegal act in which the defendant
must have personally participated directly or by indirect
procurement. The gist of it is an unlawful detention,
and that being shown the burden is on the defendant to
establish probable cause for the arrest. The want of
probable cause, certainly in the absence of proof of guilt
or conviction of the plaintiff, is measured by the state of

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

the defendant's knowledge, not by his intent. It means
the absence of probable cause known to the defendant
when he instituted the suit. But the standard appl'.ed
to defendant's consciousness is external to it. The question is not whether he thought the facts to constitute
probable cause, but whether the court thinks they did.
Holmes -on the Common Law, 140. Probable cause is
a mixed qiestion of law and fact. The court submits
the evidence of it to the jury, with instructions as to what
facts will amount to probable cause if proved. Stewart
v. Sonnebom, 98 U. S. 187, 194; Pollock on Torts, 8th ed.,
p. 225; Cooley on Torts, 3d ed., Vol. 1, p. 321. Counsel
for petitioner contends that, in an action against the
sovereign government, it must be conclusively presumed
that good faith existed upon its part so far as it is responsible for the arrest, and therefore that a complete
defense of probable cause on its part is always made out.
But, as we have seen, good faith is not enough to constitute probable cause. That faith must be grounded on
facts within knowledge of the Director General's agent,
which in the judgment of the court would make his faith
reasonable.
The Government under § 10, in a case of false imprisonment, stands. exactly as if it were a railway corporation
operating as a common carrier. Such a corporation would
clearly be responsible for an arrest of the kind here shown,
if without probable cause and made by one of its detec-.
tives employed *to protect the property entrusted to its
care as a common carrier. It is within the scope of the
agency of such an employee to discover the perpetrators
of crime against the property in order to recover it and
to procure the arrest of supposed offenders and their
prosecution and conviction in order to deter others from
further depredations. JIf, in the field of such employment, the agent acts without probable cause and an illegal
arrest without judicial warrant is made, the corporation

DENBY v. BERRY.
25

29

Syllabus.

is liable as for any other act of its agents ithin the scope
of their employment in carrying on the business of a common carrier. Philadelphia,Wilmington & Baltimore R.
R. Co. v. Quigley, 21 How. 202, 210; Genga v. Director
General of Railroads, 243 Mass. 101.
We have not before us the question whether the Director General might be held for exemplary damages in a
case like this, under the restrictions of Order No. 50, as
construed in the Ault Case, because, as already said, the
court limited the recovery to compensatory damages.
Affirmed.
DENBY, SECRETARY OF THE NAVY OF THE
UNITED STATES, v. BERRY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 47.

Argued October 5, 1923.-Decided November 12, 1923.

1. The act establishing the Naval Reserve Force, (August 29, 1916,)
impliedly empowered the President, at his discretion, or the Secretary of the Navy acting for him, to change the status of an officer
of that force from active service in the Navy to the status of
inactive duty. P. 32.
2. A mere change of status from active service, to inactive duty in
the Naval Reserve Force, is not a retirement within the meaning
of Rev. Stats., § 1455, which refers to officers in the Regular Navy;
nor under the Acts of July 1, 1918, and June 4, 1920, which made7
that section applicable to officers on active service in the Reserve
Force when disabled in the line of duty. P. 34.
3. An order of the Secretary of the Navy retiring an officer to inactive duty in the Naval Reserve Force being discretionary, the
Secretary cannot be required by mandamus to revoke it, even
though based on his erroneous belief that such officer was not
entitled under the Acts of July 1, 1918, and June 4, 1920, to be
retired on pay when disabled in line of duty. P. -36.
4. A naval regulation providing that when -any officer on the active
list becomes physically incapacitated to perform his duties, he will

