MUTUAL INS. CO. v. HURNI CO.
62

Argument for Petitioner.

Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Barber, 197 U. S. 430,
433-434; Martin v. District of Columbia, 205 U. S. 135,
138-140.
Affirmed.
LUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF NEW
YORK v. HURNI PACKING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 66.

Argued October 11, 192.-Decided November 12, 1923.

1. In case of ambiguity in a life insurance policy, that construction
is to be adopted which is most favorable to the insured. P. 174.
2. The wora "date," as applied to a written instrument, signifies
primarily the time specified therein. P. 174.
3. Where a life insurance policy declared that it should be incontestable, except for nonpayment of premiums, provided two years
should have elapsed "from its date of issue," held, that the
date intended was the one specified in the policy, although this
(by agreement of the partids) was earlier than the dates of actual
execution and delivery. P. 175.
4. A provision of a life insurance policy that .it shall be incontestable
after a specified period from its date of issue inures to the beneficiary of the policy, and applies where the period elapses after
the death of the insured. P. 176.
280 Fed. 18, affirmed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, which affirmed a judgment of the District Court
for the plaintiff, the present respondent, in an action to
recover the amount of a life insurance jolicy.
Mr. James M. Beck, with whom Mr. Frederick L. Allen,
Mr. Ralph L. Read, and Mr. Guy T. Struble were on
the brief, for petitioner.
I. The policy was void for fraud.
II. The two-year contestable period commenced to run
either on September 7; 1915, when the policy was actually

.OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Petitioner.

263 U. S.

executed, or on September 13, 1915, when it was delivered
and took effect.
The application provides: "The proposed policy shall
not take effect unless and until the first premium shall
have been paid during my continuance in good health,
and unless also the policy shall have been delivered to
and received by me during my continuance in good
health." The commencement of the running of the twoyear contestability period is expressly stated as the date
of issue of the policy. Thus the date of issue is specifically
differentiated in the policy itself from the date of the
policy.
For the general meaning of the word "issue," see dissenting opinion of Sanborn, J., in this case. Also Homestead Ins. Co. v. Ison, 110 Va. 18; Maggett v. Roberts,
112 N. C. 71; Coleman v. New England Life Ins. Co.,
236 Mass. 552; McMaster v. New York Life Ins. Co.,
183 U. S. 25.
When the parties to this contract were negotiating,
they knew that the date which was to be recited in the
policy was to be a fictitious date and not the real date
of execution. They also knew that the policy could not
be "issued" on that fictitious date because it already
had passed. The application was not made until September 2, 1915. The policy had to be executed at the home
office of the Company in New York, and was so executed
there on September 7, 1915. It then had to be forwarded
to Sioux City, Iowa, for delivery, and it was forwarded.
and was delivered September 13, 1915. Then and only
then it became a binding contract. Both parties had
agreed that the policy should not be in force and its obligations and limitations would not begin until it was delivered and the first premium paid. It therefore was
agreed that the nominal date of the policy should be
anterior to the "date of issue." It never was agreed
that such date of issue should be the same as a fictitious

MUTUAL INS. CO. v. HURNI CO.
167 .

Argument for Petitioner.

date of th6 policy. Such an agreement would have been
impossible of fulfillment because obviously the policy
could not be issued on August 23, 1915, that date being
more than one week prior to the date it was applied for.
The incontestability clause, limiting as it does the right
of the Company to contest its liability under the policy
on the ground of fraud, is a self-imposed limitation of
right, for the benefit of the insurer. It should not, therefore, be so construed as to inflict a greater limitation on
the rights of the Company to defend itself against a
fraud than clearly arises from the plain wording and
meaning of the clause itself.
Where a contract is valid, there is reason for holding
that, as the insurer dictates tht terms of the contract, any
fair doubt should be resolved in favor of the insured. But
does this rule apply with equal force, where the entire
contract, including the incontestability provision, is void
by reason of the fraud of the insured in procuring the
contract? Does public policy require that, where the defense to the policy is that it is void on the ground of fraud,
a clause of the void contract, which limits the power to
prove the fraud, should be construed against the insurer
and in favor of the insured?
Conceding arguendo that the incontestability provision
must be construed as favorably to the insured as any other
executory clause, this rule does not require an unreasonable construction, which would facilitate a fraud.
The fair and unmistakable intention of the parties Was
that, when the Company assumed responsibility, it should
have two full years theregafter to determine whether the
insured had practiced any fraud upon the insurer. To reduce this limitation by dating it from an anterior and fictitious date not only reduces the two years which the parties manifestly had in mind, but it might altogether destroy such right of rescission, as it would if the limitation
had been only six months from the date of issue, an -the

170

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Petitioner.

263 U. S.

policy had been dated back six months from the time of its
actual execution.
By construing the "date of issue" to mean either the
dkte of actual execution, or the date of delivery, when the
policy by its terms took effect, and not the fictitious date
of execution, each expression is given its rational meaning and the provisions are accordant and harmonious.
III. The death of the insured matured the policy; the
rights of the parties became fixed then; and the incontestability clause could not become operative.
There are state authorities holding that such a clause is
applicable notwithsta'nding the policyholder may die before the expiration of the contestability period. We contend that the ihsuied must have lived until the expiration of the period in order to make the policy incontestable. Jefferson Standard Life Ins. Co. v. Smith, 157
Ark. 499; Jefferson Stanidard Life Ins. Co. v. McIntyre,
285 Fed. 570.
The rule--that death of th&insured stops the runningof the contestability period is a necessary iffpcation of
the decisions of t l-s-Court in Cablev. United States Life
Ins. Co., 191 U. S. 288, and Phoenix Ins. Co. v. Bailey,
13 Wall. 616, holding that after death the insurance company cannot bring a suit -in equity to rescind for fraud,
for the reason that it has la plain, adequate and complete
remedy at law by setting up'the fraud as a defense in the
law action. This rule has been followed in Griesa v. Mutual Life Ins. Co., .169 Fed. 509; and Riggs v. Union Life
Ins. Co., 129 Fed. 207. See also Jud. Code, §§ 267 and
274b. If the insurance company must wait until the action at law is commenced, and assert its defense of fraud
in that actioI, alid such remedy is plain, adequate and
complete, the rule must rest upon the fact that the rights
of both insurance company and beneficiary are fixed: by
the maturing of the policy through the death of the insured.

MUTUAL INS. CO. v. IURNI CO.
167

Argument for Petitioner.

There is no doubt* that in numerous cases, in both
federal and state courts, the question was involved but
passed over sub silentio. See Aetna Life Ins. Co. v.
Moore, 231 U. S. 543; Prudential Ins. Co. v. Moore, 231
U. S. 560. An examination of the records in these cases
discloses no evidence of any extra-judicial "contest"
before the one-year contestability period expired.
The incontestability clause cannot always be given a
strictly literal construction in order to fix the date when
the contestability period expires. Otherwise, it would
often operate to terminate a litigation in the very midst
of a trial. Such construction ignores the fundamental
fact that, in case of a life insurance policy, the death of
the insured is the crucial and decisive fact determining
the rights and duties of the contracting parties.
There are many cogent. reasons why it may be said
that it is the intention of the parties to the contract of
insurance that the insured must live tWo years in order
to make the incontestability clause applicable. Against
these there can be advanced no reason except that, generally speaking, a policy will be construed, in case of an
ambiguity, against the insurance company and in faver
of the claimant.
The main error in the decisions of some state courts,
which hold the incontestability clause applicable notwithstanding the death of the insured.during the contestability
period, is in failing to differentiate between the policy of
insurance, as such, and the obligation arising therefrom
between the claimant and the insurance company after
the death of the insured. A contract of insurance necessarily imports, among other things, a so-called "risk."
After the insured is dead the contract is no longer one of
insurance, but of payment, if the policy is valid. See
Mellen v. Hamilton Fire Ins. Co., 17 N. Y. 609.
By the incontestability- clause the insurance company
undertakes that, provided it continues to insure against

172

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
,Argument for Petitioner.

263 U. S.

the risk for a period of two years after the policy is issued,
thereafter it will make no defense against a claim under
the policy. It is therefore obvious that the risk must
continue for the period of two years.
To state the proposition- another way: The insurance
company limits its right to cancel or rescind the policy
for any reason whatsoever, except for the nonpayment of
premiums, to a period of two years, provided the policy
exists as a policy of insurance for that time. After. two
years have elapsed from the date of issue, the policy
cannot be rescinded except for the nonpayment of premiums; and in the event of the death of the insured after
two years, the obligation to pay becomes absolute. It is
obvious that the insurance company intended to reserve
to itself the privilege of investigation to determine
whether or not it desired to continue the risk. The
period of time during which it might investigate is limited
to two years. If. the insured dies before the two-year
period of contestability (and incidentally the period
wherein investigation could be made), the insurance company would not be able to make as full and complete aii
investigation as if the insured were alive and able perhaps
to answer questions or be under observation. Moreover
the company can neither begin suit nor give notice of
rescission until legal representatives are appointed for
the deceased insured.
There never was a contract with the beneficiary that
the policy should ever be incontestable. There was a
contract with the insured that the policy should be incontestable provided the contract relationship between the
insured and the insurance company -continued during the
lifetime of the insured for the period of two years. This
construction of the contract is much the more reasonable
and just.
IV. Notice by the insurance company denying liability
on the policy was a "contest" and prevents the assertion
of an estoppel under the incontestability clause.

MUTUAL INS. CO. v. HURNI CO.
167

Opinion of th6 Court.

Mr. Charles M, Stilwill and Mr. Edwin J. Stason, for
respondent, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an action to recover the amount of a life insurance policy issued by the petitioner to Rudolph Hurni.
At the conclusion of the evidence the jury found for the
plaintiff, respondent here, under the peremptory instruction of the court, and judgment was rendered accordingly.
Upon appeal this judgment was affirmed by the Court of
Appeals. 280 Fed. 18.
There were two trials below. Upon appeal following
the first, the Court of Appeals reversed a judgment in
favor of plaintiff on the ground of material misrepresentation by the insured. 260 Fed. 641. Pending the second
trial plaintiff amended its reply to the answer and alleged
for the first time that this defense was barred, under the
.terms of the policy, by defendant's failure to contest
within two years.
The policy was applied for on September 2, 1915. It
was in fact executed on September 7-th but antedated as
of August 23, 1915, and was delivered to insured about
Sqpiember 13th. The insured died on July 4, 1917.
The application provides that "the applicant upon request may have the policy antedated for a period not to
exceed six months." Underneath- the heading of the application there was written the direction: "Date policy
August 23, 1915; age 47." The testimonium clause, followed by the signatures of the officials, reads: "In Witness Whereof, the company has caused this policy to be
executed this 23rd day of August, 1915." The policy acknowledges the receipt of the first premium and provides
that a like amount shall be paid "upon -each 23rd day of
August hereafter until the death of the insured."

174

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

'The determination of the case depends upon the meaning of a clause in the policy as follows: "Incontestability.
This policy shall be incontestable, except for non-payment of premiums, provided two years shall have elapsed
from its date of issue." The trial court held that the
words "its date of issue" were to be construed as referring to the date upon the face of the policy, viz: August
23, 1915; and this was also the view of the Court of Appeals. The first action taken by the Insurance Company
to avail itself of the misrepresentation of the insured was
on the 24th day of August, 1917, one day beyond the
period of two years after the conventional date of the
policy. It is contended on behalf of the Insurance Company: (1)'That the period of incontestability did not begin to run until the delivery of the policy, or, in any
event, until its actual execution on September 7th; and
(2) That the policy was matured by the death of the insured, and the rights of the parties thereby became fixed
so that the incontestability clause never became operative, even .within the conventional limitation.
First. .The rule is settled that in case of ambiguity that
construction of the policy will be adopted which is most
favorable to the insured. The language employed is that
of the company and it is consistent with both reason and
justice that any fair doubt as to the meaning of its own
words should be resolved against it. First National Bank
v. Hartford Fire Insurance Co., 95 U. S., 673, 678-679;
Thompson v. Phenix Insurance Co., 136 U. S. 287, 297;
Imperial Fire Insurance Co. v. Coos County, 151 U. S.
452, 462.
- The word "date" is used frequently to designate the
actual time when an event takes place, but, as applied
to written instruments, its primary signification is the
time specified therein. Indeed this is the meaning which
its derivation (datus=given)most naturally suggests. In
Bement & Dougherty v. Trenton Locomotive, &c., Co.,

MUTUAL INS. CO. v. HURNI CO.
167

Opinion of the Court.

32 N. J. L. 513, 515-516, it is said: "The primary signification of the word date, is not time in the'abstract, nor
time taken absolutely, but, as its derivation plainly indicates, time given or specified, time in some way ascertained and fixed; this is the sense in which the word is
commonly used. When we speak of the date of a deed,
we do not mean the time when it was actually executed,
but the time of its execution, as given or stated -in the
deed itself. The date of an item, or of a charge in a book
account, is not necessarily the time when the article
charged was, in fact, furnished, but simply the time given
or set down in the account, in connection with such
charge." This language was used in construing a provision of the New Jersey lien law to the effect that no lien
should be enforced unless summons be issued "within one
year from the date of the last work done, or materials furnished, in such claim"; and, specifically applying it to
that provision, the court concluded: "And so 'the date of
the last work done, or materials furnished, in such claim,'
in the absence of anything in the act indicating a different
intention, must be taken to mean the time when such
"work was done or materials furnished, as specified in
plaintiffs' written claim."
Here the words, referring to the written policy, are
"from its date of issue." While the question, it must
be conceded, is not certainly free from reasonable doubt,
yet, having in mind the rule first above stated, that in
such case the doubt must be resolved in the way most
favorable to the insured, we conclude .that the words refer
not to the time of actual execution of the policy or the
time of its delivery but to the date of issue as specified in
the policy itself. Wood v. American Yeoman, 148 Iowa,
400, 403-404; Anderson v. Mutual Life Insurance Co.,
164 Cal. 712; Harrington.v. Mutual Life Insurance Co.,

21 N. D. 447; Yesler v. Seattle, 1 Wash. 308, 322-323.
It was competent for the parties to agree that the effebtive

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

date of the policy should be one prior to its actual execution or issue; and this, in our opinion, is what they did.
Plainly their agreement was effective to govern the
amount of the premiums and the time of their future payment, reducing the former and shortening the latter, and,
in the absence of words evincing a contrary intent, we are
unable to avoid the conclusion that it was likewise effective
in respect of other provisions of the policy, including the
one here in question. This conclusion is fortified by a
consideration of the precise words employed, which are
"from .its [that is, the policy's] date of issue;" or, in
other words, from the date of issue as specified in the
policy. It was within the power of the Insurance Company if it meant otherwise, to say so in plain terms. Not
having done so, it must accept the consequences resulting
from the rule that the doubt for which its own lack of
clearness was responsible must be resolved against it.
Second. The argument advanced in support of the
second ground relied upon for reversal, in substance, is
that a policy of insurance necessarily imports a risk and
where there is no risk there can be no insurance; that
when the insured dies what had beeii a hazard has become a certainty and that the obligation then is no longer
of insurance but of payment; that by the incontestability
clause the underaking is 'that after two years, provided
the risk continues to be insured against for the period, the
insurer will make no defense against a claim under the
policy; but that .if the risk does not continue for two
years (thaf is, if the insured dies in the meantime) the
incontestability clause is not applicable. Only in the
event of the death of 'the insured after two years, it is
said, will the obligation to pay become absolute. The
argument is ingenious but fallacious, since it ignores the
fundamental purpose of all simple life insurance, which
is not to enrich the insured but to secure the beneficiary,
who has, therefore, a real, albeit sometimes only a contingent, .interest in the policy.

MUTUAL INS. CO. v. HURNI CO.
167

Opinion of the Court.

It is true, as counsel for petitioner contends, that the
contract iswith the insured and not with the beneficiary
but, nevertheless, it is for the use of the beneficiary and
there is no reason to say that the incontestability clause
is not meant for his benefit as well as for the benefit of
the insured. It is for the benefit of the insured during
his lifetime and upon his death immediately inures to the
benefit of the beneficiary. As said by the Supreme Court
of Illinois in Monahan v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co.,
283 Ill. 136; 141: "Some of the rights and obligations
of the parties to a contract of insurance necessarily become fixed upon the death of the insured. The beneficiary
has an interest in the contract, and as betwee. the insurer
and the beneficiary all the rights, and obligations of the
parties are not determined as of the date of the death of
the insured. The incontestable clause in .a policy of insurance inures to the benefit of the beneficiary after the
death of the isured as much as it inures to the benefit of
the insured himself during his lifetime. The rights of the
parties under such an incontestable clause as the one contained in this contract do not become fixed at the date of
the death'of the insured."
In order to give the clause, the meaning which the
petitioner ascribes to it, .it would be necessary to supply
words which it does not at present contain. The provision
plainly is that the policy shall be incontestable upon the
simple condition that two years shall have elapsed from its
date of issue;-not that it shall be incontestable after
two years if the insured shall live, but incontestable- without qualification and in any. event. See Monahan v.
Metropolitan Life Ins. Co., supra;Ramsey v. Old Colony
Life Ins. Co,, 297 Ill. 592, 601; Ebner v. Ohio State Life
Ins. Co., 69 Ind. App., 32, 42-48; Hardy v. Phoenix
Mutual Life Ins. Co., 180 N. Car. 180, 184-186.
Counsel for petitioner cites two cases which, it is said,
sustain his view of the question: Jefferson Standard Life
74308°-24---12

V78.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

Ins. Co. v. McIntyre, 285 Fed. 570, and Jefferson Standard
Life Ins. Co. v. Smith, 157 Ark. 499. But the incontestability clause under review in those cases was unlike the
one here. There the clause was: "After this policy shall
have been in force for one full year from the date hereof
it shall be incontestable," etc. The decisions seem to have
turned upon the use of the words "in force," the District
Judge in the first case saying: "Are the policies 'in force,'
as contemplated in the cause, after the death of the assured
occurring prior to one year from the date of the policy?
It seems to me that the proper construction of this clause
is that it contemplates the continuance in life of the assured during that year; else why except the nonpayment
of premiums?" This amounts to little more than a
quaere, since the question was then dismissed and the
case decided upon another ground. We express neither
agreement nor disagreement with the construction put
by these, decisions upon the provision therein considered;
but dealing alone with the provision here under review,
we are constrained to hold that it admits of no other interpretation than that the policy became incontestable
upon the sole condition that two years had elapsed. .
Certain difficulties, both legal and practical, said to
arise from this interpretation, in respect of the enforcement of the rights of the insurer, are suggested by way
of illustration. But these we deem it unnecessary to
review. It is enough to say that they do not, in fact,
arise in the instant case and they could not arise except
as a result of the contract, whose words the Insurance
Company itself selected and by which it is bound.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

