KREIGER v. KREIGER.
Opinion of the Court.

KREIGER v. KREIGER.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF NEW YORK.

No. 371.

Argued February 2-3, 1948.-Decided June 7, 1948.

While both spouses were domiciled in New York, a wife obtained a
decree of separation and alimony there. Later the husband obtained a Nevada divorce in a proceeding in which the wife was
notified constructively and entered no appearance. He stopped
paying alimony and the wife sued in New York for the amount
in arrears. The husband appeared and defended on the ground
of the Nevada divorce. The New York court granted the wife
judgment for the arrears of alimony. The highest court of New
York affirmed. Held: The New York judgment did not deny full
faith and credit to the Nevada decree, since Nevada had no power
to adjudicate the wife's rights in the New York decree of alimony.
See Estin v. Estin, ante, p. 541. Pp. 556-557.
297 N. Y. 530, 74 N. E. 2d 468, affirmed.

Notwithstanding a divorce obtained by a husband in
Nevada, a New York court gave the wife a judgment for
arrears of alimony awarded under an earlier decree
granted while both spouses were domiciled in New York.
The Appellate Division affirmed. 271 N. Y. App. Div.
872, 66 N. Y. S. 2d 798. The Court of Appeals affirmed.
297 N. Y. 530, 74 N. E. 2d 468. This Court granted
certiorari. 332 U. S. 829. Affirmed, p. 557.
James G. Purdy argued the cause for petitioner.
him on the brief was Abraham J. Nydick.

With

Charles Rothenberg argued the cause and filed a brief
for respondent.

Opinion of the Court by MR.
nounced by MR. JUSTICE REED.

JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

an-

This is a companion case to Estin v. Estin, ante, p. 541,
also here on certiorari to the Court of Appeals of New
York.

OCTOBER TERM,, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

The parties were married in New York in 1933 and
lived there together until their separation in 1935. In
1940 respondent obtained a decree of separation in New
York on grounds of abandonment. Petitioner appeared
in the action; and respondent was awarded $60 a week
alimony for the support of herself and their only child,
whose custody she was given.
Petitioner thereafter went to Nevada where he continues to reside. He instituted divorce proceedings in
that state in the fall of 1944. Constructive service was
made on respondent who made no appearance in the
Nevada proceedings. While they were pending, respondent obtained an order in New York purporting to enjoin
petitioner from seeking a divorce and from remarrying.
Petitioner was neither served with process in New York
nor entered an appearance in the latter proceeding. The
Nevada court, with knowledge of the injunction and the
New York judgment for alimony, awarded petitioner an
absolute divorce on grounds of three consecutive years of
separation without cohabitation. The judgment made
no provision for alimony. It did provide that petitioner
was to suplhort, maintain and educate the child, whose
custody it purported togrant him, and as to which jurisdiction was reserved. Petitioner thereafter tendered $50
a month for the support of the child but ceased making
payments under the New York decree.
Respondent thereupon brought suit on the New York
judgment in a federal district court in Nevada. Without
waiting the outcome of that litigation she obtained a
judgment in New York for the amount of the arrears,
petitioner appearing and unsuccessfully pleading his
Nevada divorce as a defense. The judgment was affirmed
by the Appellate Division, two judges dissenting. 271
N. Y. App. Div. 872, 66 N. Y. S. 2d 798. The Court of
Appeals affirmed without opinion, 297 N. Y. 530, 74 N. E.
2d 468, but stated in its remittitur that its action was

KREIGER v. KREIGER.
555

557

Opinion of the Court.

based upon Estin v. Estin, 296 N. Y. 308, 73 N. E. 2d
113. Respondent does not attack the bona fides of petitioner's Nevada domicile.
For the reasons stated in Estin v. Estin, ante, p. 541, we
hold that Nevada had no power to adjudicate respondent's
rights in the New York judgment and thus New York
was not required to bow to that provision of the Nevada
decree. It is therefore unnecessary to pass upon New
York's attempt to enjoin petitioner from securing a divorce or to reach the question whether the New York
judgment was entitled to full faith and credit in the Nevada proceedings. No issue as to the custody of the child
was raised either in the court below or in this Court.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

dissents for the reasons

stated in his dissenting opinion in Estin v. Estin, ante,
p. 549.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON dissents for the reasons set forth
in his opinion in Estin v. Estin, ante, p. 553.

