OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

334 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. GRIFFITH ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 64.

Argued December 15, 1947.-Decided May 3, 1948.

1. Even in the absence of a specific intent to restrain or monopolize
trade, it is violative of §§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act for four
affiliated corporations operating motion picture theatres in numerous towns in three states and having no competitors in some of
these towns to use the buying power of the entire circuit to obtain
exclusive privileges from film distributors which prevent competitors from obtaining enough first- or second-run films to operate
successfully. Pp. 101-110.
(a) It is not always necessary to find a specific intent to restrain
trade or to build a monopoly in order to find that §§ 1 and 2 of
the Sherman Act have been violated. It is sufficient that. a restraint of trade or monopoly results as the consequence of the
defendants' conduct or business arrangements. P. 105.
(b) Specific intent in the sense in which the common law used
the term is necessary only where the acts fall short of the results
prohibited by the Sherman Act. P. 105.
(c) The use of monopoly power, however lawfully acquired, to
foreclose competition, to gain a competitive advantage, or to destroy
a competitor, is unlawful. Pp. 106-107.
(d) It is unlawful for the operator of a circuit of motion picture
theatres to use his monopoly in towns in which he has no competitors to obtain exclusive rights to films for towns in which he has
competitors. Pp. 107-109.
(e) The exhibitors in this case having combined with each other
and with the distributors to obtain monopoly rights, had formed
a conspiracy in violation of §§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act. P. 109.
2. The District Court having erroneously dismissed the complaint
in this case without making adequate findings as to the effect of
the practices found by this Court to be unlawful, the case is
remanded to the District Court for further findings and the
fashioning of a decree which will undo as near as may be the wrongs
that were done and prevent their recurrence in the future. Pp.
109-110.
68 F. Supp. 180, reversed..

UNITED STATES v. GRIFFITH.
100

Opinion of the Court.

In a suit by the United States to restrain violations of

§§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act, the District Court found
that there was no violation of the Act and dismissed the
complaint on the merits. 68 F. Supp. 180. On appeal to
this Court, reversed and remanded, p. 110.
Robert L. Wright argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
Perlman, Assistant Attorney General Sonnett, Milton A.
Kallis and Robert W. Ginnane.
Charles B. Cochran argued the cause for appellees.
With him on the brief was John B. Dudley.
MR.

JUSTICE DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit brought by the United States in the District Court to prevent and restrain appellees from violating §§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act. 26 Stat. 209, as
amended, 50 Stat. 693, 15 U, S. C. §§ 1, 2. The District
Court, finding there was no violation of the Act in any of
the respects charged in the complaint, dismissed the complaint on the merits. 68 F. Supp. 180. The case is here
by appeal under § 2 of the Expediting Act of February 11,
1903, 32 Stat. 823, as amended, 15 U. S. C. § 29, and § 238
of the Judicial Code, as amended by the Act of February
13, 1925, 43 Stat. 936, 938, 28 U. S. C. § 345.
The appellees are four affiliated corporations and two
individuals who are associated with them as stockholders
and officers.1 The corporations operate (or own stock in
1 Griffith

Amusement Co., Consolidated Theatres, Inc., R. E. Griffith Theatres, Inc., Westex Theatres, Inc., H. J. Griffith, and L. C.
Griffith. R. E. Griffith, a brother of H. J. and L. C. Griffith, was

a defendant, but died while the suit was pending in the District Court
and the action was not revived against his estate or personal
representative.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

corporations which operate) moving picture theatres in
Oklahoma, Texas, and New Mexico. With minor exceptions, the theatres which each corporation owns do not
compete with those of its affiliates but are in separate
towns. In April, 1939, when the complaint was filed,
the corporate appellees had interests in theatres in 85
towns. In 32 of those towns there were competing theatres. Fifty-three of the towns (62 per cent) were closed
towns, i. e. towns in which there were no competing theatres. Five years earlier the corporate appellees had
theatres in approximately 37 towns, 18 of which were
competitive and 19 of which (51 per cent) were closed.
It was during that five-year period that the acts and practices occurred which, according to the allegations of the
complaint, constitute violations of §§ 1 and 2 of the
Sherman Act.
Prior to the 1938-1939 season these exhibitors used
a common agent to negotiate with the distributors for
films for the entire circuit.2 Beginning with the 19381939 season one agent negotiated for the circuit represented by two of the corporate appellees, and another
agent negotiated for the circuit represented by the other
two corporate appellees. A master agreement was usually executed with each distributor covering films to
be released by the distributor during an entire season.3
There were variations among the master agreements.
But in the main they provided as follows: (a) They
lumped. together towns in which the appellees had no
competition and towns in which there were competing
2

The circuit includes the four corporate appellees and their affiliated

exhibitors. When less than the full ownership of a theatre was acquired, the contract would provide that the buying and booking of
films was exclusively in the hands of the Griffith interests.
3 The agreement negotiated by the common agent would be executed between a distributor and each of the corporate appellees or
between a distributor and an individual exhibitor.

UNITED STATES v. GRIFFITH.
100

Opinion of the Court.

theatres. (b) They generally licensed the first-run exhibition in practically all of the theatres in which appellees had a substantial interest of substantially all of the
films to be released by the distributor during the period of
a year.' (c) They specified the towns for which second
runs were licensed for exhibition by appellees, the secondrun rental sometimes being included in the first-run rental.
(d) The rental specified often was the totAl minimum
required to be paid (in equal weekly or quarterly installments) by the circuit as a whole for use of the films
throughout the circuit, the appellees subsequently allocating the rental among the theatres where the films were
exhibited. (e) Films could be played out of the order of
their release, so that a specified film need not be played
in a particular theatre at any specified time.'
The complaint charged that certain exclusive privileges
which these agreements granted the appellee exhibitors over their competitors unreasonably restrained competition by preventing their competitors from obtaining
enough first- or second-run films from the distributors 6 to
operate successfully. The exclusive privileges charged as
violations were preemption in the selection of films and
the receipt of clearances over competing theatres. It
4 There were a few franchise agreements covering films to be
released by a distributor during a term 'of years, usually for three
years and in one instance for five years.
The theatres of appellees in Oklahoma City were second, not first,
run theatres.
5 The privilege was frequently conditioned on the playing of, or
paying for, a designated quantity of the film obligation during stated
portions of the season.
8 Those are the eight major film distributors who originally were
defendants. The charge that these distributors conspired with each
other was eliminated from the complaint and they were dismissed as
defendants by stipulation or on motion of appellant. But the charge
that each of the distributors had conspired with the appellee exhibitors
was retained.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

also charged that the use of the buying power of the entire
circuit in acquiring those exclusive privileges violated the
Act.
The District Court found no conspiracy between the
appellee exhibitors or between them and the distributors,
which violated the Act. It found that the agreements
under which films were distributed were not in restraint
of trade; that the appellees did not monopolize or attempt
to monopolize the licensing or supply of film for first run
or for any subsequent run; that the appellees did not conspire to compel the distributors to grant them the exclusive privilege of selecting films before the films were made
available to any competing exhibitor; that there was no
agreement between defendants and distributors granting
defendants unreasonable clearances; that the appellees
did not compel or attempt to compel distributors to grant
them privileges not granted their competitors or which
gave them any substantial advantage over their competitors; and that appellees did not condition the licensing of
films in any competitive situation on the licensing of such
films in a non-competitive situation, or vice versa.
The appellant introduced evidence designed to show
the effect of the master agreements in some twenty-odd
competitive situations. The District Court made detailed findings on this phase of the case to the effect that
difficulties which competitors had in getting desirable
films after appellee exhibitors entered their towns, the
inroads appellees made on the business of competitors,
and the purchases by appellees of their competitors were
not the result of threats or coercion nor the result of an
unlawful conspiracy, but solely the consequence of lawful
competitive practices.
In United States v. Crescent Amusement Co., 323 U. S.
173, a group of affiliated exhibitors, such as we have in
the present case, were found to have violated §§ 1 and 2
of the Sherman Act by the pooling of. their buying power

UNITED STATES v. GRIFFITH.
100

Opinion of the Court.

and the negotiation of master agreements similar to those
we have here. A difference between that case and the
present one, which the District Court deemed to be vital,
was that in the former the buying power was used for the
avowed purpose of eliminating competition and of acquiring a monopoly of theatres in the several towns,
while no such purpose was found to exist here. To be
more specific, the defendants in the former case through
the pooling of their buying power increased their leverage
over their competitive situations by insisting that they be
given monopoly rights in towns where they had competition, else they would give a distributor no business in
their closed towns.
It is, however, not always necessary to find a specific
intent to restrain trade or to build a monopoly in order to
find that the anti-trust laws have been violated. It is
sufficient that a restraint of trade or monopoly results
as the consequence of a defendant's conduct or business
arrangements. United States v. Patten, 226 U. S. 525,
543; United States v. Masonite Corp., 316 U. S. 265,
275. To require a greater showing would cripple the
Act. As stated in United States v. Aluminum Co. of
America, 148 F. 2d 416, 432, "no monopolist monopolizes unconscious of what he is doing." Specific intent
in the sense in which the common law used the term is
necessary only where the acts fall short of the results
condemned by the Act. The classical statement is that
of Mr. Justice Holmes speaking for the Court in Swift &
Co. v. United States, 196 U. S.375, 396:
"Where acts are not sufficient in themselves to produce a result which the law seeks to prevent-for
instance, the monopoly-but require further acts in
addition to the mere forces of nature to bring that
result to pass, an intent to bring it to pass is necessary
in order to produce a dangerous probability that it
will happen. Commonwealth v. Peaslee, 177 Mas79M25 O--49---12

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

sachusetts, 267, 272. But when that intent and the
consequent dangerous probability exist, this statute,
like many others and like the common law in some
cases, directs itself against that dangerous probability
as well as against the completed result."
And see United States v. Aluminum Co. of America,
supra, pp. 431-432. And so, even if we accept the District
Court's findings that appellees had no intent or purpose
unreasonably to restrain trade or to monopolize, we are
left with the question whether a necessary and direct
result of the master agreements was the restraining or
monopolizing of trade within the meaning of the Sherman
Act.
Anyone who owns and operates the single theatre in
a town, or who acquires the exclusive right to exhibit a
film, has a monopoly in the popular sense. But he usually does not violate § 2 of the Sherman Act unless he has
acquired or maintained his strategic position, or sought to
expand his monopoly, or expanded it by means of those
restraints of trade which are cognizable under § 1. For
those things which are condemned by § 2 are in large
measure merely the end products of conduct which violates § 1. Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S.1,
61. But that is not always true. Section 1 covers contracts, combinations, or conspiracies in restraint of trade."
Section 2 is not restricted to conspiracies or combinations
to monopolize' but also makes it a crime for any person
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize any part of
7 Section 1 provides: "Every contract, combination in the form of
trust or otherwise, or conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce
among the several States, or with foreign nations, is hereby declared
to be illegal ..
8 Section 2 provides: "Every person who shall'monopolize, or attempt to monopolize, or combine or conspire with any other pLrson

or persons, to monopolize any part of the trade or commerce among
the several States, or with foreign nations, shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor .

..."

UNITED STATES v. GRIFFITH.
100

Opinion of the Court

interstate or foreign trade or commerce. So it is that
monopoly power, whether lawfully or unlawfully acquired, may itself constitute an evil and stand condemned
under § 2 even though it remains unexercised' For § 2 of
the Act is aimed, inter alia, at the acquisition or retention
of effective market control. See United States v. Aluminum Co. of America, 148 F. 2d 416, 428, 429. Hence the
existence of power "to exclude competition when it is desired to do so" is itself a violation of § 2, provided it is
coupled with the purpose or intent to exercise that power.
American Tobacco Co. v. United States, 328 U. S. 781,
809, 811, 814. It is indeed "unreasonable, per se, to foreclose competitors from any substantial market." International Salt Co. v. United States, 332 U. S. 392, 396.
The anti-trust laws are as much violated by the prevention of competition as by its destruction. United States
v. Aluminum Co. of America, supra. It follows a fortiori
that the use of monopoly power, however lawfully acquired, to foreclose competition, to gain a competitive
advantage, or to destroy a competitor, is unlawful.
A man with a monopoly of theatres in any one town
commands the entrance for all films into that area.
If he uses that strategic position to acquire exclusive
privileges in a city where he has competitors, he is
employing his monopoly power as a trade . weapon
against his competitors.. It may be a feeble, ineffective
weapon where he has only one closed or monopoly town.
But as those towns increase in number throughout a
region, his monopoly power in them may be used with
crushing effect on competitors in other places." He need
"So also a conspiracy to monopolize violates § 2 even though
monopoly power was never acquired. American Tobacco Co. v.
United States, 328 U. S. 781,789.
10 It was said in United States v. United States Steel Corp., 251
U. S. 417, 451, that mere size is not outlawed by § 2. But size is of
course an earmark of monopoly power. Moreover, as stated by

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

'334 U. S.

not be as crass as the exhibitors in United States v.
Crescent Amusement Co., supra, in order to make his
monopoly power effective in his competitive situations.
Though he makes no threat to withhold the business
of his closed or monopoly towns unless the distributors
give him the exclusive film rights in the towns where
he has competitors, the effect is likely to be the same
where the two are ejoined. When the buying power of
the entire circuit is used to negotiate films for his competitive as well as his closed towns, he is using monopoly
power to expand his empire. And even if we assume that
a specific intent to accomplish that result is absent, he
is chargeable in legal contemplation with that purpose
since the end result is the necessary and direct consequence
of what he did. United States v. Patten,supra, p. 543.
The consequence of such a use of monopoly power is
that films are licensed on a non-competitive basis in what
would otherwise be competitive situations. That is the
effect whether one exhibitor makes the bargain with the
distributor or whether two or more exhibitors lump together their buying power, as appellees did here. It is in
either case a misuse of monopoly power under the Sherman Act. If monopoly power can be used to beget
monopoly, the Act becomes a feeble instrument indeed.
Large-scale buying is not, of course, unlawful per se. It
may yield price or other lawful advantages to the buyer.
It may not, however, be used to monopolize or to attempt
to monopolize interstate trade or commerce. Nor, as we
hold in United States v. Paramount Pictures,Inc., post,
p. 131, may it be used to stifle competition by denying competitors less favorably situated access to the
market.
Justice Cardozo, speaking for the Court in United States v. Swift &
Co., 286 U. S. 106, 116, "size carries with it an opportunity for abuse
that is not to be ignored when the opportunity is proved to have been
utilized in the past."

UNITED STATES v. GRIFFITH.
100

109.

Opinion of the Court.

. Appellees were concededly using their circuit buying
power to obtain films. Their closed towns were linked
with their competitive towns. No effort of concealment
was made as evidenced by the fact that the rental specified
was at times the total minimum amount required to be
paid by the circuit as a whole. Monopoly rights in the
form of certain exclusive privileges were bargained for
and obtained. These exclusive privileges, being acquired
by the use of monopoly power, were unlawfully acquired.
The appellees, having combined with each other and with
the distributors to obtain those monopoly rights, formed
a conspiracy in violation of §§ 1 and 2 of the Act. It is
plain from the course of business that the commerce
affected was interstate. United States v. Crescent
Amusement Co., supra, pp. 180, 183-184.
What effect these practices actually had on the competitors of appellee exhibitors or on the growth of the
Griffith circuit we do not know. The District Court, having started with the assumption that the use of circuit
buying power was wholly lawful, naturally attributed no
evil to it and thus treated the master agreements as legitimate weapons of competition. Since it found that no
competitors were driven out of business, or acquired by
appellees, or impeded in their business by threats or coercion, it concluded that appellees had not violated the
Sherman Act in any of the ways charged in the complaint.
These findings are plainly inadequate if we start, as we
must, from the premise that the circuit buying power was
unlawfully employed. On the record as we read it, it
cannot be doubted that the monopoly power of appellees
had some effect on their competitors and on the growth of
the Griffith circuit. Its extent must be determined on a
remand of the cause. We remit to the District Court not
only that problem but also the fashioning of a decree which
will undo as near as may be the wrongs that were done
and prevent their recurrence in the future. See United

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

334 V. S.

States v. Crescent Amusement Co., supra, pp. 189-190;
Schine Chain Theatres v. United States, post, p. 110;
United States v. ParamountPictures,Inc., post, p. 131.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER dissents, substantially for
the reasons set forth in the opinion of the District Court,
68 F. Supp. 180.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took
no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

SCHINE CHAIN THEATRES, INC.
UNITED STATES.

ET AL. V.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 10.

Argued December 15, 1947.-Decided May 3,1948.

The United States sued to restrain violations of §§ 1 and 2 of the
Sherman Act by a parent corporation, three of its officers and
directors and five of its subsidiaries, which owned or had a financial
interest in a large chain of motion picture theatres located in six
states. The District Court found that they had used the combined
buying power of the entire circuit to negotiate master agreements
with the major film distributors, which had the effect of depriving
competitors of first- and second-run films; obtained from the
distributors unreasonable "clearances," long-term agreements for
rentals of films and other concessions which gave them unreasonable
advantages over competitors; threatened to build theatres or to
open closed theatres in order to stop or prevent competition; cut
admission prices; obtained from competitors whom they bought
out agreements not to compete for long terms of years, which
sometimes extended to towns other than those in which the purchased theatres operated; and thus conspired with each other and
with the eight major film distributors to violate §§ 1 and 2 of
the Sherman Act. The District Court enjoined these practices
and ordered defendants to divest themselves of certain theatres.
Defendants appealed. Held:

