KENNEDY v. SILAS MASON CO.
219

Syllabus.

stated. The appeal was taken and the Circuit Court of
Appeals affirmed.
This Court, however, decides the case as though the
original complaint as it related to sugar had not only
remained unchanged but had been proved by evidence.
Despite the deletion from the complaint of the allegation
concerning the price of sugar, the Court assumes, without
allegation or evidence, that the price of sugar is affected
and on that basis builds its thesis that the Sherman Act
has been violated. I think in fairness to the litigants and
the District Court, the petitioner's case should be disposed
of here on the same basis on which it was pleaded to the
courts below.
On the proceedings in the courts below, I would affirm
the judgment of the District Court.

KENNEDY

ET AL.

v. SILAS MASON CO.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT. .

No. 590. Argued April 20, 1948.-Decided May 17, 1948.
Petitioners, who worked in a Government-owned plant in which respondent produced munitions under a cost-plus-fixed-fee contract
with the War Department, sued respondent for overtime compensation under the Fair Labor Standards Act. The District Court's
summary judgment for respondent was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. Among other issues involved were whether
petitioners were employees of the Government or of the private
contractor and whether munitions produced for shipment across
state lines are produced for "commerce" and are "goods" within
the meaning of the Act. Substantial claims of the petitioners would
be denied or large sums added to the cost of the war by the answers
to the questions raised, and many other cases would be governed by
the decision. Also, certain contentions were made in this Court
79258 0--48----21

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Counsel for Parties.

334 U. S.

which were not made in the courts below; and an adequate consideration of the problem would require consideration of three different acts of Congress, two of which were not properly before this
Court on the record in this case. Held: Without intimating any
conclusion on the merits, the judgments are vacated and the cause
is remanded to the District Court for reconsideration and amplification of the record in the light of this Court's opinion and of present
contentions. Pp. 251-257.
.(a) The hearing of contentions as to disputed facts, the sorting
of documents to select relevant provisions, ascertain their ultimate
'form and meaning, the practical construction put on them by the
parties, and reduction of a mass of conflicting contentions as to
fact and inference from facts, is a task primarily for a trial court
instead of this Court. P. 256.
(b) Summary procedures under Rule 56 of the Federal Rules
of Civil Procedure, however salutary where issues are clear-cut
and simple, present a treacherous record for deciding issues of farflung import, on which this Court should draw inferences with
caution from complicated courses of legislation, contracting and
practice. Pp. 256-257.
(c) As a matter of good judicial administration, this Court will
not attempt to decide these far-reaching issues on such a record
presenting an indefinite factual foundation and involving such a
welter of new contentions and statutory provisions, but will await
the presentation of these issues on a record containing a more solid
basis of findings based on litigation or on a comprehensive statement of agreed facts. P. 257.
164 F. 2d 1016, judgments vacated and cause remanded.
In an action by petitioners to recover overtime com-

pensation claimed under the Fair Labor Standards Act,
the District Court first denied, 68 F. Supp. 576, but later

granted, 70 F. Supp. 929, summary judgment for respondent.

The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed.

164 F. 2d

1016. This Court granted certiorari. 333 U. S. 841.
Judgments vacated and cause remanded,,p 257.
Leonard Lloyd Lockard argued the cause and filed a

brief for petitioners.

KENNEDY v. SILAS MASON CO.
249

Opinion of the Court.

William L. Marbury arid Charles D. Egan argued the
cause and filed a brief for respondent.
Briefs of amici curiae in support of petitioners were filed
by Solicitor General Perlman and Robert L. Stern for the
United States; and June P. Wooten.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed by
J. R. L. Johnson, Jr. and Robert A. Fulwiler, Jr. for the
Hercules Powder Co.; Ernest S. Ballard, Frank F. Fowle,
Jr. and CharlesR. Kaufman for E. I. du Pont de Nemours
& Co.; and Grover T. Owens and E. L. McHaney, Jr.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case involves questions as to the application of
the overtime provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act 1
to certain persons who worked in a government-owned
plant in which respondent produced munitions under a
cost-plus-fixed-fee contract with the War Department.
It involves such subsidiary issues as whether the plaintiffs
were employees of the Government or of the private contractor, whether munitions produced for shipment across
state lines in war use are produced for "commerce" 2 and
whether they are "goods" ' within the meaning of the Act.
Substantial claims of petitioners may be denied or large
1 Act of June 25, 1938, c. 676, 52 Stat. 1060, 29 U. S. C. ยง 201.
2 The Act defines commerce as follows: "'Commerce' means trade,
commerce, transportation, transmission, or communication among
the-several States or from any State to any place outside thereof."
3 The Act defines goods as follows: "'Goods' means goods (including ships and marine equipment), wares, products, commodities, merchandise, or articles or subjects of commerce of any character, or any
part or ingredient thereof, but does not include goods after their
delivery into the actual physical possession of the ultimate consumer
thereof other than a producer, manufacturer, or processor thereof."

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

sums added to the cost of the war by the answers to these
questions, and many cases other than this will be controlled by its decision.
The manner in which the case has thus far developed
raises the question whether as a matter of good judicial
administration this Court should attempt to decide these
far-reaching issues on this record.
No one questions that, taking its allegations at their
face value, the complaint in this case states a cause of
action under the Fair Labor Standards Act. Summary
judgment has gone against the plaintiffs because, by affidavit and exhibits, the allegations have been found unsustainable. The defendant filed a motion for summary
judgment, under Rule 56 of the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure "on the ground that defendant is entitled
to a judgment as a matter of law." The motion, so far
as the Fair Labor Standards Act was concerned, was
based on an affidavit "which states facts showing that
as a matter of law neither complainants nor defendant
were covered" by the Act in that neither "were engaged
in commerce, or in the production of goods for commerce."
Made part of the affidavit by reference were defendant's
construction and operation contract with the Government
and some 22 supplements or change orders covering nearly
200 pages of the record. The complainants then filed
a supplemental complaint which added by reference all
regulations and interpretative bulletins of the Department of Labor and Administrator of the Fair Labor
Standards Act clarifying and explaining it. And, as
against defendant's affidavit and exhibits, the plaintiffs,
4 Rule 56 provides that the trial court may award summary judgment after motion, notice and hearing, provided the pleadings, depositions, admissions and affidavits on file show that there is no genuine'
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled
to judgment as a matter of law.

KENNEDY v. SILAS MASON CO.
249

Opinion of the Court.

as recited in the District Court's opinion, offered by reference affidavits of three former employees of the contractor showing the customs of payment and operation
as bearing on the issue of whether they were government
employees or those of the private contractor. The affidavits do not appear in the record, but parts deemed
relevant are set out in the court's opinion.
On this basis the District Court first denied summary
judgment. 68 F. Supp. 576. It was of the view that the
plaintiffs, whatever the forms of the transaction, were in
reality employed by the Government and, hence, the Fair
Labor Standards Act by its own terms did not cover them.
But it held that they were covered by ยง 4 (b) of the Act
of July 2, 1940,' and were entitled to recover overtime
under it.
On rehearing, the court concluded, however, that no
remedy under this latter Act was available to them in
this action as it was not pleaded. Accordingly, it granted
summary judgment against them. 70 F. Supp. 929.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, Fifth Circuit, sitting en
banc affirmed. 164 F. 2d 1016. It held that the plaintiffs were in substance employees of the United States,
that munitions were not a part of commerce within the
meaning of the Act, and that in any event munitions were
not "goods" within the meaning of the Act. One judge,
concurring, did not pass on the question whether petitioners were employees of the Government but held only that
munitions were produced for war, not for commerce. One
judge dissented on the ground that the whole system "was
designed and operated so that the United States should
not be the employer" and considered that munitions produced for transportation to a place outside of the State
were produced for commerce and those engaged therein
5 Act of July 2, 1940, c. 508, 54 Stat. 712.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

were subject to the Act. The case is here on certiorari,
333 U. S. 841.
The Silas Mason Company, in a sense, is no more than
a nominal defendant, for it is entitled to reimbursement
from the Government. The Government, the ultimate
party in interest, appears through the Department of
Justice in support of the statutory basis for the claims
against itself. But it advises us that "The Department
of the Army is of the view that respondent's position
has merit for the reasons set forth in the brief filed by
respondent. The Army is concerned with the great cost
to which the Government will be subjected if the numerous suits akin to this are lost, or even if it must
bear the cost of defending them. Furthermore, the Army
believes that the classes of employees involved in these
cases were well paid, that they accepted their compensation without complaint or expectation of receiving
more until this litigation was commenced sometime after
the termination of their employment, and that accordingly there is little equity in the employees' present
losition."
Three Arts of Congress require consideration. The
plaintiffs and the Government say the Fair Labor Standards Act is controlling. The defendant, the Department
of the Army, which handled the transaction, and the
District Court consider that the Act of July 2, 1940,
controls the liability. But the trial court held it cannot
be the basis of adjudication of plaintiffs' claims because
no such issue was pleaded and that holding has become
the law of the case since there has been no appeal. The
plaintiffs pleaded their cause of action also under the
Walsh-Healey Public Contracts Act,6 but it was held
unavailable to them below and their petition for certiorari
I Act of June 30, 1936, c. 881, 49 Stat. 2036, 41 U. S. C. ยง 35.

KENNEDY v. SILAS MASON CO.
249

Opinion of the Court.

to this Court raises no question as to that Act and acouiesces in dropping it from our consideration.
On the question as to who was the employer, on which
this case was decided below, the complaint makes a clear,
factual and simple allegation. It says that these plaintiffs were employed by the corporate defendant itself.
This allegation has been overborne by interpreting the
terms of the contracts between that alleged employer
and a third party, that is, the Government, which terms
may or may not have been known to the employees.
There is substantial controversy as to the way those two
parties, the Government and defendant in actual practice,
construed their contracts, both sides of the controversy
being based on events of which we are asked to take
judicial notice or to spell out from contracts without
the tests which trial affords. The plaintiffs in turn seek
to counteract whatever ,inferences may be drawn from
the defendant's version of dealings between defendant
and the Government by contrary inferences from dealings
between employees and the defendant. But they do not
prove plaintiffs' own dealings, which are not in the record,
but offer affidavits which relate slecifically to "laborers
and mechanics" while plaintiffs were inspectors and foremen, a difference that may be material. Insofar as the
allegations of the complaint are impeached by the course
of dealing between defendant and the Government, they
are not supported by any course of dealing to which
these plaintiffs were parties. What they were paid and
on what basis, whether they have already been paid for
overtime on the theory that one of the other Acts applies,
we do not know.
Defendant's present position, which, for all we know,
may or may not be shared by the Department of the
Army, is that we do not 'need to settle the question as
to whether defendant or the Government was the actual

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

employer, that the effect of the war-time legislation was
to set up a wholly new system of war production, which
was neither private enterprise nor government operation,
but an amalgamation of the two, which also prescribed
a complete system of labor relation by statute which
supersedes And precludes operation of the Fair Labor
Standards Act. But this broad contention seems not to
have been submitted to either court below, is not consistent with the theoretical basis of their decisions and
appears fully presented for the first time in the reply
brief in this Court.
The short of the matter is that we have an extremely
important question, probably affecting all cost-plus-fixedfee war contractors and many of their employees immediately, and ultimately affecting by a vast sum the cost
of fighting the war. No conclusion in such a case should
prudently be rested on an indefinite factual foundation.
The case, which counsel have described as a constantly
expanding one, comes to us almost in the status in which
it should come to a trial court. In addition to the welter
of new contentions and statutory provisions we must-pick
our way among over a score of technical contracts, each
amending some earlier one, without full background
knowledge of the dealings of the parties. The hearing
of contentions as to disputed facts, the sorting of documents to select relevant provisions, ascertain their ultimate form and meaning in the case, the practical construction put on them by the parties and reduction of the
mass of conflicting contentions as to fact and inference
from facts, is a task primarily for a court of one judge,
not for a court of nine.
We do not hold that in the form the controversy took
in the District Court that tribunal lacked power or justification for applying the summary judgment procedure.
But summary procedures, however salutary where issues

KENNEDY v. SILAS MASON CO.
249

Opinion of the Court.

are clear-cut and simple, present a treacherous record for
deciding issues of far-flung import, on which this Court
should draw inferences with caution from complicated
courses of legislation, contracting and practice.
We consider it the part of good judicial administration
to withhold decision of the ultimate questions involved in
this case until this or another record shall present a more
solid basis of findings based on litigation or on a comprehensive statement of agreed facts. While we might be
able, on the present record, to reach a conclusion that
would decide the case, it might well be found later to be
lacking in the thoroughness that should precede judgment
of this importance and which it is the purpose of the
judicial process to provide.
Without intimating any conclusion on the merits, we
vacate the judgments below and remand the case to the
District Court for reconsideration and amplification of
the record in the light of this opinion and of present
contentions.
Judgments vacated.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

thinks the judgment should be

reversed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS concurs in the result.

]Rule 56 requires that summary judgment shall be rendered
if "there is no genuine issue as to any material fact ....
".See
note 4.

