OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

334 U. S.

see that the sentence was not predicated on misconception or misreading of the controlling statute, a requirement of fair play which absence of counsel withheld from
this prisoner."
I find it difficult to comprehend that the court's misreading or misinformation concerning the facts of record
vital to the proper exercise of the sentencing function is
prejudicial and deprives the defendant of due process of
law, but its misreading or misconception of the controlling
statute, in a matter "so vital as imposing mandatory sentence or exercising discretion concerning it, has no such
effect. Perhaps the difference serves only to illustrate
how capricious are the results when the right to counsel
is made to depend not upon the mandate of the Constitution, but upon the vagaries of* whether judges, the same
or different, will regard this incident or that in the course
of particular criminal proceedings as prejudicial.

TOWNSEND v. BURKE, WARDEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME

No. 542.

COURT

OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Argued April 27, 1948.-Decided June 14, 1948.

1. That a defendant convicted in a state court of a non-capital
offense on a plea of guilty had been held incommunicado for a
period of 40 hours between his arrest and his plea of guilty, has
no bearing on the validity of his conviction-particularly when
he makes no allegation that the circumstances of his detention
induced his plea of guilty. Pp. 737-738.
2. Where a defendant so convicted was not represented by counsel
and it appears from the record that, while the court was considering the sentence to be imposed, the defendant actually was
prejudiced either by the prosecution's submission of misinformation
regarding his prior criminal record or by the court's careless
misreading of that record, he was denied due process of law and
the conviction cannot be sustained. Pp. 738-741,
Reversed.

TOWNSEND v. BURKE.
736

Opinion of the Court.

Certiorari, 332 U. S. 854, to review denial of writ of
habeas corpus by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania.
Reversed, p. 741.
Archibald Cox argued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioner.
Franklin E. Barr argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief was John H. Maurer.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania holds petitioner
prisoner under two indeterminate sentences, not exceeding
10 to 20 years, upon a plea of guilty to burglary and
robbery. On review here of the State Supreme Court's
denial of habeas corpus,' the prisoner demands a discharge
by this Court on federal constitutional grounds.
Petitioner. while a -fugitive, was indicted on June 1,
1945, for burglary and armed robbery. Four of his alleged accomplices had been arrested on May 18, 1945,
and signed a joint confession, while a fifth had been
arrested on May 21, 1945, and had also confessed. Petitioner was arrested pn June 3, 1945, and confessed on June
4. On June 5, after pleading guilty to two charges of
robbery and two charges of burglary and not guilty to
other charges, he was sentenced.
Petitioner now alleges violation of his constitutional
rights in that, except for a ten-minute conversation with
his wife, he was held incommunicado for a period of 40
Respondent raised no procedural or jurisdictional issues in this
Court or in the State Supreme Court. Since petitioner has throughout based his claim for relief solely on alleged deprivation of federal
-constitutional rights, we assume that those questions were considered
by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania and are therefore open here.
Herndon v. Lowry, 301 U. S.242, 247.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

hours between his arrest and his plea of guilty. He does
not allege that he was beaten, misused, threatened or
intimidated, but only that he was held for that period
and was several times interrogated. He does not allege
that the questioning was continuous or that it had any
coercive effect.
The plea for relief because he was detained, as he claims,
unlawfully is based on McNabb v. United States, 318
U. S. 332. But the rule there applied was one against
use of confessions obtained during illegal detention and
it was limited to federal courts, to which it was .applied
by virtue of our supervisory power. In this present case
no confession was used because the plea of guilty in open
court dispensed with proof of the crime. Hence, lawfulness of the detention is not a factor in determining
admissibility of any confession and if he were temporarily
detained illegally, it would have no bearing on the validity
of his present confinement based on his plea of guilty,
particularly since he makes no allegation that it induced
the plea.
Petitioner also relies on Haley v. Ohio, 332 U. S. 596, in
which this Court reversed a state court murder conviction
because it was believed to have been based on a confession wrung from an uncounseled 15-year-old boy held
incommnunicado during questioning by relays of police
for several hours late at night. Even aside from the
differing facts, that case provides no precedent for relief
to this prisoner since, as has been said, no confession
was used against him, and he does not allege-that his pleas
of guilty resulted from his allegedly illegal detention.
Petitioner also says that when he was brought into
court to plead, he was not represented by counsel, offered
assignment of counsel, advised of his right to counsel
,or instructed with Rarticularity as to the nature.of the
crimes with which he was charged. This, he says, under
the circumstances deprived his conviction and sentence

TOWNSEND v. BURKE.
736

739'

Opinion of the Court.

of constitutional validity by reason of the due process
2
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Only recently a majority of this Court reaffirmed that
the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment does
not prohibit a State from accepting a plea of guilty in a
non-capital case from an uncounseled defendant.. Bute
v. Illinois, 333 U. S. 640. In that, and in earlier uases,
we have indicated, however, that the disadvantage from
absence of counsel, when aggravated by circumstances
showing that it resulted in the prisoner actually being
taken advantage of, or prejudiced, does make out a case
of violation of due process.
The proceedings as to this petitioner, following his plea
of guilty, consisted of a recital by an officer of details of
the crimes to which petitioner and others had pleaded
guilty and of the following action by the court (italics
supplied):
"By the Court (addressing Townsend):
"Q. Townsend, how old are you?
"A. 29.
"Q. You have been here before, haven't you?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. 1933, larceny of automobile. 1934, larceny of
produce.. 1930, larceny of bicycle. 1931, entering
to steal and larceny. 1988, entering to steal and larceny in Doylestown. Were you tried up there? No,
no. Arrested in Doylestown. That was up on GerThe Supreme Court of Pennsylvania has frequently held that the
state constitutional provision according defendants the right to be
heard by counsel does not require appointment of counsel in noncapital cases. See, for example, Commonwealth ex rel. McGlinn v.
Smith, 344 Pa. 41, 24 A. 2d 1; Commonwealth ex rel. Withers v. Ashe,
350 Pa. 493, 39 A. 2d 610. See also Betts v. Brady, 316 U. S. 455, 465.
The Pennsylvania statutes require only that destitute defendants
accused of murder shall be assigned counseL Act of March 22, 1907,
19 Pa. Stat. Ann. ยง 784.
2

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

mantown Avenue, wasn't it? You robbed a paint
store.
"A. No. That was my brother.
"Q. You were tried for it, weren't you?
"A. Yes, but I was not guilty.
"Q. And 1945, this. 1936, entering to steal and
larceny, 1350 Ridge Avenue. Is that your brother
too?
"A. No.
"Q. 1937, receiving stolen goods, a saxophone.
What did you want with a saxophone? Didn't hope
to play in the prison band then, did you?
"The Court: Ten to twenty in the Penitentiary."
The trial court's facetiousness casts a somewhat somber
reflection on the fairness of the proceeding when we learn
from the record that actually the charge of receiving the
stolen saxophone had been dismissed and the prisoner
discharged by the magistrate. But it savors of foul play
or of carelessness when we find from the record that, on
two others of the charges which the court recited against
the defendant, he had also been found not guilty. Both
the 1933 charge of larceny of an automobile, and the 1938
charge of entry to steal and larceny, resulted in his discharge after he was adjudged not guilty. We are not at
liberty to assume that items given such emphasis by the
sentencing court did not influence the sentence which the
prisoner is now serving.
We believe that on the record before us, it is evident
that this uncounseled defendant was either overreached
by the prosecution's submission of misinformation to the
court or was prejudiced by the court's own misreading of
the record. Counsel, had any been present, would have
been under a duty to prevent the court from proceeding
on such false assumptions and perhaps under a duty to
seek remedy elsewhere if they persisted. Consequently,
in this record we conclude that, while disadvantaged by

TOWNSEND v. BI4RKE.
736

Opinion of the Court.

lack of counsel, this prisoner was sentenced on the basis
of assumptions concerning his criminal record which were
materially untrue. Such a result, whether caused by
carelessness or design, is inconsistent with dite process of
law, and such a conviction cannot stand.
We would make clear that we are not reaching this
result because of petitioner's allegation that his sentence
was unduly severe. The sentence being within the limits
set by the statute, its severity would not be grounds for
relief here even on direct review of the conviction, much
less on review of the state court's denial of habeas corpus.
It is not the duration or severity of this sentence that
renders it constitutionally invalid; it is the careless or
designed pronouncement of sentence on a foundation so
extensively and materially false, which the prisoner had
no opportunity to correct by the services which counsel
would provide, that renders the proceedings lacking in due
process.
Nor do we mean that mere error in resolving a question
of fact on a plea of guilty by an uncounseled defendant
in a non-capital case would necessarily indicate a want of
due process of law. Fair prosecutors and conscientious
judges sometimes are misinformed or draw inferences from
conflicting evidence with which we would not agree. But
even an erroneous judgment, based on a scrupulous and
diligent search for truth, may be due process of law.
In this case, counsel might not have changed the sentence, but he could have taken steps to see that the conviction and sentence were not predicated on misinformation or misreading of court records, a requirement of fair
play which absence of counsel withheld from this
prisoner.
Reversed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE REED,
TICE BURTON dissent.

and MR. JUS-

