OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

LICHTER

ET AL.,

DOING

BUSINESS

334 U. S.

AS

SOUTHERN

FIREPROOFING CO., v. UNITED STATES
NO. 105.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.*
Argued November 20-21, 1947.-Decided June 14, 1948.
1. The Renegotiation Act is constitutional on its face as authority
for the recovery by the United States of "excessive profits" (less
tax credits) realized by private parties in the circumstances of
these cases on subcontracts for war goods in time of war with
contractors who were also private parties--even in the absence
of contractual provisions for the renegotiation of such profits
and even as applied to contracts entered into prior to the enactment
of the Act, provided final payments had not been made pursuant
to such contracts prior to the date of enactment of the original
Act. Pp. 746, 753-793.
2. The power of Congress to authorize the recovery of such excessive
profits is included in the broad scope of the war powers expressly
granted to Congress by the Constitution. Pp. 753-772.
(a) In time of war, Congress unquestionably has the fundamental power to conscript men and to requisition properties
necessary and proper to enable it to raise and support armies.
Pp. 756,765.
(b) The Renegotiation Act was a law "necessary and proper"
for carrying into execution the war powers of Congress and especially its power to raise and support armies. Pp. 757-765.
(c) Not only was it,
"necessary and proper" for Congress to
provide for the produ:tion of war supplies in the successful
conduct of the war, but it was well within the outer limits of
the constitutional discretion of Congress and the President to
do so under the terms of the Renegotiation Act in a manner
designed to eliminate excessive private profits. See United States
v. Bethlehem Steel Corp., 315 U. S.289, 305. Pp. 763-765, 769.
(d) The plan for renegotiation of profits realized by private
parties on contracts for production of war goods-chosen by
*Together with No. 74, Pownall et al. v. United States, on certiorari
to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit; and No. 95,
Alexander Wool Combing Co. v. United States, on certiorari to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the First Circuit, argued November
21, 1947.

LICHTER v. UNITED STATES.
742

743

Syllabus.

Congress as an alternative to mobilization of the productive capacity of the nation into a governmental unit on the totalitarian
model-symbolized a free people united in reaching unequalled
productive capacity and yet retaining the maximum of individual
freedom consistent with a general mobilization of effort. Pp.
765-772.
3. The authority granted for administrative determination of the
amount of "excessive profits," if any, realized on war subcontracts
was a constitutional definition of administrative authority and not
an unconstitutional delegation of legislative power. Pp. 774-787.
(a) A constitutional power implies a power of delegation of
authority under it sufficient to effect its purposes. Pp. 778-783.
(b) The administrative practices developed under the Act demonstrated the definitive adequacy of the term "excessive profits"
as used in the Act. P. 783.
(c) In the light of the purpose of the Act and its factual background, the statutory term "excessive profits" was a sufficient
expression of legislative policy and standards to render it constitutional. Pp. 783-786.
(d) The methods prescribed and the limitations imposed by
Congress on the contemplated administrative action help to sustain its constitutionality. Pp. 786-787.
4. The war powers of Congress and the President are only thoc
which are to be derived from the Constitution, but the primary
implication of a war power is that it shall be an effective power
to wage war successfully. P. 782.
5. While the constitutional structure and controls of our Government
are our guides equally in war and in peace, they must be read
with the realistic purposes of the entire instrument fully in mind.
P. 782.
6. It is not necessary that Congress supply administrative officials
with a specific formula for their guidance in a field where flexibility and the adaptation of the congressional policy to infinitely
variable conditions constitute the essente of the program. P. 785.
7. The collection of renegotiated excessive profits on a war subcontract is not in the nature of a penalty and is not a deprivation
of a subcontractor of his property without due process of law
in violation of the Fifth Amendment. Pp. 787-788.
8. The Government was entitled to recover excessive profits (less
tax credits) from each of the subcontractors in these cases, whether
they arose from contracts made before or after the passage of
the Act, provided final payments had not been made pursuant
to such contracts prior to the date of the original Act-even though

744

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
*Counsel for Parties.

334 U. S.

they arose out of contracts between private parties and not out
of contracts made directly with the Government itself. Pp. 747753,788-789.
9. In a suit by the Government under the Act to recover excessive
profits administratively determined to have been realized, by subcontractors under war contracts in the circumstances of these
cases, subcontractors who failed to make timely application to
the Tax Court for redetermination of the amount of such excessive
profits do not have the right to raise questions as to the coverage
of the Act, as to the amount of excessive profits adjudged to be
due from them, or as to other comparable issues which might
have been presented by them to the Tax Court upon a timely
petition for a redetermination. Pp. 753-754, 789-793.
(a) The statute and the course of action taken afforded procedural due process to the subcontractors in these cases. P. 791.
(b) The statutory provision for a petition to the Tax Court
was not, in any of these cases, an optional or alternative procedure;
it provided the only procedure to secure a redetermination of the
excessive profits which had been administratively determined to
exist. P. 792.
(c) Failure of the subcontractors in these cases to exhaust that
procedure has left them no right to present such issues in this
Court. P. 792.
160 F. 2d 329; 159 F. 2d 73; 160 F. 2d 103, affirmed.

The cases are stated concisely in the opinion with citations to the decisions below, pp. 746-753. Affirmed, p.
793.
Paul W. Steer argued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioners in No. 105.
Leo R. Friedman argued the cause for petitioners in
No. 74. With him on the brief was Jos. I. McMullen.
Edward C. Park argued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioner in No. 95.
Solicitor General Perlman argued the cause for the
United States. With him on the brief were Herbert A.
Bergson, Newell A. Clapp, Paul A. Sweeney, Oscar H.
Davis and Ellis Lyons.

LICHTER v. UNITED STATES.
742

745.

Opinion of the Court.

0. R. McGuire and Julius C. Smith filed a brief for
the Spindale Mills, Inc.. as amicus curiae, in Nos. 74 and
95, urging reversal.
MR. JUSTICE BURTON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Renegotiation Act,' in time of crisis, presented to
this nation a new legislative solution of a major phase
' The Renegotiation Act, including its amendments, is here treated
as consisting of:
I. Section 403, Sixth Supplemental National Defense Appropriation Act, 1942, approved April 28, 1942, c. 247, 56 Stat.226, 245-246.
Sometimes this is called the Original or First Renegotiation Act. For
relevant excerpts from its text see Appendix I, infra, 1v. 793.
II. Title VIII, Renegotiation of War Contracts, Revenue Act of
1942, approved October 21, 1942, c. 619, 56 Stat. 798, 982-985, 26
U. S. C. A. Internal Revenue Acts Beginning 1940, Revenue Act of
1942, § 801, p. 376. For relevant excerpts from its text see Appendix II, infra, p. 795.
III. Section 1, Military Appropriation Act, 1944, approved July
1, 1943, c. 185, 57 Stat. 347-348.
IV. An Act to prevent the payment of excessive fees or compensation in connection with the negotiation of war contracts, approved
July 14, 1943, c. 239, 57 Stat. 564-565.
V. Title VII, Renegotiation of War Contracts, and Title VIII,
Repricing of War Contracts, Revenue Act of 1943, passed notwithstanding the objections of the President, February 25, 1944, c. 63, 58
Stat. 21, 78-93, 50 U. S. C. (Supp. V, 1946) §§ 1191, 1192; also 26
U. S. C. A. Internal Revenue Acts Beginning 1940, Revenue Act of
1943, §§ 701 and 801, pp. 491 and 508. For relevant excerpts from
its text see Appendix III, infra, p. 798. Sometimes this is called the
Second Renegotiation Act. Section 701 (b), of the foregoing Chapter
63, added to § 403 of the Sixth Supplemental National Defense Appropriation Act, 1942, a final subsection as follows: "(1) This section
may be cited as the 'Renegotiation Act'." 58 Stat. 90. Section

701 (d) also provided that this subsection (1) of .§ 403, and certain
others, "shall be effective as if such amendments and subsections had
been a part of section 403 of such Act on the date of its enactment."
58 Stat. 92.
VI. An Act to extend through December 31, 1945, the termination
date under the Renegotiation Act, approved June 30, 1945, e. 210, 59
Stat. 294-295, 50 U. S. C. (Supp. V, 1946) § 1191.
792588 0-48-52

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

of the problem of national defense against world-wide
aggression. Through its contribution to our production
program it sought to enable us to take the leading part
in winning World War 1I on an unprecedented scale of
total global warfare without abandoning our traditional
faith in and reliance upon private enterprise and individual initiative devoted to the public welfare.
In each of the three cases before us the principal issue
is the constitutionality, on its face, of the Renegotiation
Act insofar as it is authority for the recovery of the excessive profits sought to be recovered by the United States
from the respective petitioners. In each case the secondary issue is whether the failure of the respective petitioners to petition, the Tax Court for a redetermination of
the amount, if any, of their excessive profits excludes from
consideration here the coverage of the Act, the amount
of the profits and other comparable issues which could
have been presented to the Tax Court. In each of these
cases the District Court.has held that the Act was constitutional and that, by failure to petition the Tax Court for
their redetermination, the existing orders have become
final as claimed by the Government. Each Circuit Court
of Appeals has affirmed, unanimously, the judgment appealed to it. We agree with the courts below.
In each of these cases the United States obtained a
judgment for a sum alleged to be owed to it pursuant to
a determination of excessive profits under the Renegotiation Act. The determinations of excessive profits in the
respective cases were made by the Under Secretary of
War or by the War Contracts Price Adjustment Board
after the Revenue Act of 1943 had been approved, February 25, 1944. That Act contained, in its Title VII,
the so-called Second Renegotiation Act which included
provisions for the filing with the Tax Court of petitions
for the redeterminations of excess profits. None of these
petitioners, however, filed such a petition with the Tax

LICHTER v. UNITED STATES.
742

Opinion of the Court.

Court. On the other hand, the respective petitioners have
relied upon their claims that, as a matter of law, the Renegotiation Act is unconstitutional on its face insofar as
it purports to authorize the judgments which have been
taken against the respective petitioners. The petitioners
contend also that their failures to file petitions with the
Tax Court have not foreclosed their respective rights to
contest here the coverage of the Act, the amount of the
excess profits found against them and other comparable
issues which they might have presented to the Tax
Court.
NO.

105

(THE LICHTER CASE).

In May, 1945, the United States filed its complaint in
the District Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Ohio' against the petitioners, Jacob Lichter
and Jennie L. Lichter, engaged in the construction business in Cincinnati, Ohio, under the name of the Southern
Fireproofing Company, a copartnership. The complaint
was founded upon the determination by the Under Secretary of War, dated October 20, 1944, that $70,000 of
the profits realized by petitioners during the calendar year
1942 from nine subcontracts, executed in 1942 for a total
price of $710,224.16, were, under the Renegotiation Act,
excessive profits. The complaint showed that the petitioners were entitled to a tax credit of $42,980.61 against
such excessive profits. It alleged, moreover, that the
petitioners had not, within the required period, petitioned
the Tax Court for a redetermination of the order in question and had not paid or otherwise eliminated the amount
of $27,019.39 thus due to the United States.
The petitioners admitted that the Under Secretary had
made the determination as alleged; that if his order were
valid the petitioners were entitled to the tax credit specified; and that they had not paid the sum demanded nor
had they filed a petition with the Tax Court for a rede-

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

termination of the excessive profits, if any. They put in
issue; on specifically stated grounds, the constitutionality
of the Renegotiation Act insofar as it might be authority
for the recovery of the profits sought to be recovered, and
they put in issue the applicability to them of any requirement that they seek in the Tax Court a redetermination of
the profits which they had been ordered to repay to the
United States. They alleged also that: of the nine subcontracts which were made the basis of renegotiation, all
were executed during the calendar year 1942; four were
executed before April 28, 1942, the date of the original
Ronegotiation Act; none contained clauses permitting or
requiring their renegotiation; only two of them were for
amounts in excess of $100,000 each; these two were among
those which had been executed before April 28, 1942; and
no excessive profits had been in fact earned by the petitioners during 1942. Finally they alleged that the several
contracts referred to were subcontracts entered into under
prime contracts which had been awarded by a department of the Government as the result of competitive bidding for the construction of buildings and facilities and
the subcontracts themselves had been obtained by petitioners after further competitive bidding. For these and
other reasons stated in the answer the cofitracts were
claimed to be exempt from renegotiation.
The United States moved for judgment on the pleadings and, in the alternative, for summary judgment.
Affidavits were filed in support of those motions. These
included particularly the comprehensive affidavits of
Robert P. Patterson, then Under Secretary of War, and of
H. Struve Hensel, then Assistant Secretary of the Navy.
These affidavits set forth the general background of the
Renegotiation Act and the basis for claiming that the
renegotiation of war contracts was necessary in order
to sustain this nation's share of the burden of winning
World War II. Counterparts of these two affidavits were

LICHTER v. UNITED STATES.
742

Opinion of the Court.

filed in each of the other cases before us. The petitioners,
on the other hand, moved to dismiss the complaint on the
grounds that it failed to state a claim upon which relief
could be granted and that the profits in question were
exempt from the Act.
The District Court made findings of fact substantially
as stated in the complaint and admitted in the answer.
It concluded that there was no genuine issue as to any
material fact and that the United States was entitled
to judgment as a matter of law for $27,019.39, with
interest at six percent per annum from November 6, 1944.
68 F. Supp. 19. The Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Sixth Circuit affirmed the judgment. It held expressly
that the Renegotiation Act was valid on its face and that
the petitioners, by reason of their failure to petition the
Tax Court for a redetermination of the amount of the
excessive profits, if any, were barred from making their
other attacks on the Secretary's determination of such
excessive profits. 160 F. 2d 329. Because of the basic
significance of the constitutional questions involved we
granted certiorari. 331 U. S. 802.
NO. 74

(THE POWNALL CASE).

In September, 1945, the United States filed its complaint in the District Court of the United States for the
Southern District of California against the petitioners,
A. V. Pownall, Grace M. Pownall, and Henes-Morgan
Machinery Company, Limited, a California corporation,
all three doing business in Los Angeles, California, as copartners under the name of General Products Company.
The record indicates that they were there engaged in the
production of precision parts, machinery and tools for
use by war contractors. The complaint was founded upon
a determination made by the Under Secretary of War, on
behalf of the War Contracts Price Adjustment Board,
dated December 27, 1944, to the effect that $628,373.14 of

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

the profits realized by petitioners during the calendar
year 1943 on their contracts and subcontracts, subject to
renegotiation pursuant to the Renegotiation Act, were
excessive profits. The complaint showed that the petitioners were entitled to a tax credit of $514,663.95 against
such profits. It alleged, moreover, that the petitioners
had not, within the required period, petitioned the Tax
Court for a redetermination of the order in question and
had not paid the sum of $113,709.19 thus claimed by the
United States. The petitioners admitted that the Under
Secretary had made the determination as alleged; that
the Board had adopted his order; that the appropriate tax
credit was as alleged; that no petition for redetermination
had been filed with the Tax Court; that the time for
filing had expired; and that no payment of the amount
claimed had been made. The petitioners alleged, however, that the Renegotiation Act was invalid on its face
on numerous specifically stated constitutional grounds;
that the Under Secretary's order was invalid in that it was
based on undisclosed data and contained no findings; and
that no single contract under consideration exceeded in
amount the sum of $99,000.
The United States moved for judgment on the pleadings and, in the alternative, for summary judgment. The
petitioners did the same. Under the stipulations of the
parties there were no disputed issues of fact and the only
questions left for decision were those as to the constitutional validity of the Act and as to its interpretation
if found to be valid.
The District Court denied the motions of both parties,
However, ruling on the merits of the cause thus before
it, it found the facts to be substantially as alleged in
the complaint and as stipulated. It held the Act to be
valid on its face and held the unappealed determination
of excessive profits to be final. It rendered judgment
for the United States for $121,043.39, evidently repre-

LICHTER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

742

senting $113,709.19, with interest at six percent per
annum from March 13, 1945. 65 F. Supp. 147, and see
findings of fact, conclusions of law and judgment of the
court. The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed the judgment. It followed its earlier decision in Spaulding v. Douglas Aircraft Co., 154 F. 2d 419,
in upholding the constitutionality of the Act and expressly
holding that the petitioners, by not having petitioned the
Tax Court for relief, had failed to exhaust their administrative remedies. Accordingly, it held that the District
Court was without jurisdiction to consider the petitioners'
contentions as to the coverage of the Act. 159 F. 2d 73.
We granted certiorari. 331 U. S. 802.
NO.

95

(THE

ALEXANDER CASE).

In August, 1945, the United States filed its complaint
in the District Court of the United States for the District
of Massachusetts against the petitioner, Alexander Wool
Combing Company, a Massachusetts corporation doing
business at Lowell, Massachusetts, and there engaged in
the business of scouring wool and combing it into tops
and noils for commissions paid to it by the owners of
the wool. The complaint was founded upon two determinations by the Under Secretary of War, both dated
September 6, 1944. One determined that $22,500 of the
profits realized by the petitioner during its fiscal year
ended June 30, 1942, and the other that $45,000 of the
profits realized by the petitioner during its fiscal year
ended June 30, 1943, under its contracts and subcontracts
which were alleged to be subject to the provisions of the
Renegotiation Act, were excessive. The complaint
showed that the petitioner was entitled to a tax credit of
$15,020.80 against such excessive profits for the fiscal year
ended June 30, 1942, and of $36,596.42 against those for
the fiscal year ended June 30, 1943. The complaint alleged, moreover, that the petitioner had not, within the

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

required periods, petitioned the Tax Court for a redetermination of either of the orders in question; that the respective periods for filing such petitions had expired; and
that the petitioner had not paid, or otherwise eliminated,
the amount of $15,882.78 thus due to the United States.
The petitioner admitted the factual allegations of the
complaint but denied that any amount was owing to
the United States. It claimed that the determinations
made by the Under Secretary were void because made
without due process of law and were unenforcible as to
the petitioner because, as applied to it, they were unconstitutional for several specifically stated reasons.
The United States moved for judgment on the pleadings or, in the alternative, for summary judgment. In
support of these motions the above-mentioned affidavits
of Robert P. Patterson, Under Secretary of'War, and of
H. Struve Hensel,-Assistant Secretary of the Navy, and
several others were filed. Evidence both oral and in affidavit form was submitted in opposition. The District
Court stated in its opinion, 66 F. Supp. 389, 391, that
the petitioner "had no direct contracts with any department or agency of the United States. It combed wool
for different private companies. It knew- that some of
the wool it combed for the companies was destined for
use in government contracts, but it was and is ignorant
as to the destination of other wool." That court, nevertheless, rendered judgment in favor of the United States,
for $15,882.78, with interest at six percent per annum
from September 6, 1944. It held that the war powers
of Congress were sufficient to enable it to authorize the
recapture of excessive profits such as these; that the
standard of "excessive profits" was sufficient to satisfy
the constitutional limitations on the power of Congress
to delegate authority; that any defects in the- departmental proceedings were immaterial in view of the opportunity afforded the petitioner for a trial de novo and

LICHTER v. UNITED STATES.
742

Opinion of the Court.

for a redetermination of excessive profits, if any, in the
Tax Court; and that petitioner's defenses on the ground
of lack of coverage or of retroactivity of the application
of the Renegotiation Act to the petitioner were lost to
it by its failure to seek relief from the Tax Court. The
Circuit Court of Appeals for the First Circuit said, per
curiam: "We think the court below adequately covered
all the issues in this case and we affirm its judgment
upon the grounds and for the reasons set forth in its
opinion . . . ." 160 F. 2d 103.2 We granted certiorari.
331 U. S. 802.
THE BACKGROUND.

We have two main issues before us: (1) the constitutionality of the Renegotiation Act on its face and
(2) the finality of the determination of the excessive
profits made under it in the absence of a petition filed
with the Tax Court within the required time, seeking a
redetermination of those profits. In the Lichter case we
have issues as to profits made in the calendar year 1942,
in the Pownall case as to profits made in the calendar
year 1943, and in the Alexander case as to certain profits
made in the fiscal year ended June 30, 1942, and as to
other profits made in the fiscal year ended June 30, 1943.
In each case we uphold the constitutionality of the Act
as providing the necessary authorization for the judgments rendered. We also accept the finality given by
the courts below to the administrative determinations
made of the excessive profits, although the statutory situ2 In addition to the opinions of the Circuit Courts of Appeals and
District Courts cited in the text, see Ring Construction Corp. v. Secretary of War, 8 T. C. 1070; Cohen v. Secretary of War, 7 T. C. 1002;
Stein Bros. Mfg. Co. v. Secretary of War, 7 T. C. 863. For dis-

cussions of the Renegotiation Act by this Court, stopping short
of passing upon its constitutionality, see Aircraft & Diesel Corp. v.
Hirsch, 331 U. S. 752; and Macauley v. Waterman S. S. Corp., 327

U. S.540.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

ation as a basis for the finality of such determinations
is not precisely the same in each case. By reason of
the finality thus attached to the determinations made
as to excessive profits in these cases, we do not pass upon
the issues attempted to be raised here as to the coverage
of the Act, the amount of the profits, or other matters
which the petitioners might have presented to the Tax
Court but did not.
In procedure which affects property rights as directly
and substantially as that authorized by the Renegotiation
Act, the governmental action authorized, although resting
on valid constitutional grounds, is capable of gross abuse.
The very finality of the administrative determinations
here upheld emphasizes the seriousness of the injustices
which can result from the abuse of the large powers vested
ii the administrative officials. We do not minimize the
seriousness of complaints which thus may be cut off
without relief in the name of the necessities of war and
for the sake of the defense of the nation when its survival
is at stake. We re-emphasize that, under these conditions, there is great need both for adequate channels
of procedural due process and for careful conformity to
those channels. In total war it is necessary that a civilian
make sacrifices of his property and profits with at least
the same fortitude as that with which a drafted soldier
makes his traditional sacrifices of comfort, security and
life itself. Within procedure thus authorized by the Constitution, the Congress and the Administration, and here
affirmed, resulting injustices can and should be carefully
examined and as far as possible relieved. In war both
the raising and the support of the armed forces are essential. Both require mobilization and control under the
authority of Congress. Both are entitled also to such
postwar relief as may be authorized by Congress.
The Renegotiation Act was developed as a major wartime policy of Congress comparable to that of the Selective Service Act. The authority of Congress to authorize

LICHTER v. UNITED STATES.
742

Opinion of the Court.

each of themsprang from its war powers. Each was
a part of a national policy adopted in time of crisis in
the conduct of total global warfare by a nation dedicated
to the preservation, practice and development of the
maximum measure of individual freedom consistent with
the unity of effort essential to success.
With the advent of such warfare, mobilized property in
the form of equipment and supplies became as essential
as mobilized manpower. Mobilization of effort extended
not only to the uniformed armed services but to the entire
population. Both Acts were a form of mobilization.
The language of the Constitution authorizing such measures is broad rather than restrictive. It says "The Congress shall have Power . . .To raise and support Armies,
but no appropriation of Money to that Use shall be for a
longer Term than two Years; . . . ." Art. I, § 8, Cl.
12.' "This places emphasis upon the supporting as well
3

Among the many other provisions implementing the Congress and
the President with powers to meet the varied demands of war, the fol-

lowing obviously command attention: "We the People of the United
States, in Order to form a more perfect Union .... provide for the
common defence .... and secure the Blessings of Liberty to our-

selves and our Posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution
for the United States of America." U. S. Const. Preamble.
"The Congress shall have Power To lay and collect Taxes, Duties,
Imposts and Excises, to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United States;...
"To declare War, .

..

"To provide and maintain a Navy;
"To make all Laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying
into Execution the foregoing Powers .
" Id. Art. I, § 8.
"The. President shall be Commander in Chief of the Army and
Navy of the United States .... " Id. Art. II, § 2, Cl. 1.
Madison said in The Federalist, Number XLI,-General View of

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

as upon the raising of armies. The power of Congress
as to both is inescapably express, not merely implied.
The conscription of manpower is a more vital interference
with the life, liberty and property of the individual than
is the conscription of his property or his profits or any
substitute for such conscription of them. For his hazardous, full-time service in the armed forces a soldier is
paid whatever the Government deems to be a fair but
modest compensation. Comparatively speaking, the
manufacturer of war goods undergoes no such hazard to
his personal safety as does a front-line soldier and yet
the Renegotiation Act gives him far better assurance of a
reasonable return for his wartime services than the Selective Service Act and all its related legislation give to the
men in the armed forces. The constitutionality of the
conscription of manpower for military service is beyond
question. The constitutional power of Congress to support the armed forces with equipment and supplies is no
less clear and sweeping.4 It is valid, a fortiori.
the Powers Conferred by the Constitution: "Security against foreign
danker is one of the primitive objects of civil society. It is an avowed
and essential object of the American Union. The'powers requisite
for attaining it must be effectually confided to the federal councils."
Hamilton said in The Federalist, Number.XXIII,--The Necessity
of a Government as Energetic as the One Proposed to the Preservation of the Union:
"The circumstances that endanger the safety of nations are infinite,
and for this reason no constitutional shackles can wisely be imposed
on the power to which the care of it is committed. This power ought
to be co-extensive with all the possible combinations of such circumstances; and ought to be under the direction of the same councils
which are appointed to preside over the common defence."
4
"The Constitution grants to Congress power 'to raise and support
Armies,'.'to provide and maintain a Navy,' and to.make all laws necessary and proper to carry these powers into execution. Under this
authority Congress can draft men for battle service. Selective Draft
Law Cases, 245 U. S.366. Its power to draft business organizations

LICHTER v. UNITED STATES.
742

Opinion of the Court.

In view of this power "To raise and support
Armies,

. . ."

and the power granted in the same Arti-

cle of the Constitution "To make all Laws which shall
to support the fighting men who risk their lives can be no less."
United States v. Bethlehem Steel Corp., 315 U. S. 289, 305.
In writing of the power of Congress to pass a Conscription Act,
President Lincoln said, with characteristic clearness:
"Whether a power can be implied when it is not expressed has often
been the subject of controversy; but this is the first case in which
the degree of effrontery has been ventured upon of denying a power
which is plainly and distinctly written down in the Constitution.
The Constitution declares that 'The Congress shall have power .. .
to raise and support armies; but no appropriation of money to that
use shall be for a longer term than two years.' The whole scope of
the conscription act is 'to raise and support armies.' There is nothing
else in it . ..
"... Do you admit that the power is given to raise and support
armies, and yet insist that by this act Congress has not exercised
the power in a constitutional mode?-has not done the thing in the
right way? Who is to judge of this? The Constitution gives Congress the power, but it does not prescribe the mode, or expressly
declare who shall prescribe it. In such case Congress must prescribe
the mode, or relinquish the power. There is no alternative ...
The power is given fully, completely, unconditionally. It is not a
power to raise armies if State authorities consent; nor if the men
to compose the armiea are entirely willing; but it is a power to raise
and support armies given to Congress by the Constitution, -without
an 'if.'" 9 Nicolay and Hay, Works of Abraham Lincoln 75-77
(1894).
The foregoing quotation is from an opinion by President Lincoln,
which was not actually issued or published by him but which was
quoted to the above extent by Honorable Charles Evans Hughes,
of New York, in his address on "War Powers Under the Constitution"
before the American Bar Association, September 5, 1917, 42 A. B. A.
Rep. 232, 234-235.
The draft was put in force both by the Union and by the Confederacy during the Civil War and its validity was sustained by the
courts in both North and South. "The power of coercing the citizen
to rei.der military service, is indeed a transcendent power, in the
hands f any government; but so far from being inconsistent with
liberty, iLis essential to its preservation." Burroughs v. Peyton, 16

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

be necessary and proper for carrying into Execution the
foregoing Powers, . . ." the only question remaining is
whether the Renegotiation Act was a law "necessary and
proper for carrying into Execution" the war powers of
Congress and especially its power to support armies.
It is impossible here to picture adequately all that
might have been "necessary and proper" in 1942-1944 to
meet the unprecedented responsibility facing Congress in
this field. We do, however, catch a glimpse of it in authoritative, contemporaneous descriptions of the situation. Accordingly, we have set forth in the margin excerpts from the message of the President to the Congress
upon the State of the Union, January 6, 1942,1 from a
Gratt. 470, 473.. See cases cited in 42 A. B. A. Rep. 234 n. 1, and see
Selective Draft Law Cases, 245 U. S. 366; Jacobson v. Massachusetts,
197 U. S. 11, 29; In re Grimley, 137 U. S. 147, 153.
5"Our own objectives are clear: The objective of smashing the
militarism imposed by war lords upon their enslaved peoples; the
objective of liberating the subjugated nations; the objective of establishing and securing freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom
from want, and freedom from fear everywhere in the world.
"We shall not stop short of these objectives; nor shall we be
satisfied merely to gain them and call it a day. I know that I speak
for the American people-and I have good reason to believe I speak
also for all the other peoples who fight with us-when I say that
this time we are determined not only to win the war, but also to
maintain the security of the peace which will follow.
"But modern methods of warfare make it a task, not only of
shooting and fighting, but an even more urgent one of working and
producing.
"Victory requires the actual weapons of war and the means of
transporting them to a dozen points of combat.
"It will not be sufficient for us and the other united nations to
produce a slightly superior supply of munitions to that of Germany,
Japan, Italy, and the stolen industries in the countries which they
have overrun.
"The superiority of the united nations in munitions and ships must
be overwhelming-so overwhelming that the Axis nations can never
hope to catch up with it. In order to attain this overwhelming

LICHTER v. UNITED STATES.
742

759

Opinion of the Court.

report of the Special Committee of the Senate Investigating the National Defense Program under the chairmansuperiority the United States must build planes and tanks and guns
and ships to the utmost limit of our national capacity. We have the
ability and capacity to produce arms not only for our own forces but
also for the armies, navies, and air forces fighting on our side.
"And our overwhelming superiority of armament must be adequate to put weapons of war at the proper time into the hands of
those men in the conquered nations, who stand ready to seize the
first opportunity to revolt against their German and Japanese oppressors, and against the traitors in their own ranks, known by the
already infamous name of 'Quislings.' As we get guns to the patriots in those lands, they too will fire shots heard 'round the world.
"This produc.tion of ours in the United States must be raised *far
above its present levels, even though it will mean the dislocation of
the lives and occupations of millions of our own people. We must
raise our sights all along the production line. Let no man say it
cannot be done. It must be done--and we have undertaken to
do it.
"I have just sent a letter of directive to the appropriate departments and agencies of our Government, ordering that immediate
steps be taken:
"1. To increase our production rate of airplanes so rapidly that
in this year, 1942, we shall produce 60,000 planes, 10,000 more than
the goal set a year and a half ago. This includes 45,000 combat
planes-bombers, dive-bombers, pursuit planes. The rate of increase
will be continued, so that next year, 1943, we shall produce 125,000
airplanes, including 100,000 combat planes.
"2. To increase our production rate of tanks so rapidly that in
this year, 1942, we shall produce 45,000 tanks; and to continue that
increase so that next year, 1943, we shall produce 75,000 tanks.
"3. To increase our production rate of antiaircraft guns so rapidly
that in this year, 1942, we shall produce 20,000 of them; and to
continue that increase so that next year, 1943, we shall produce
35,000 antiaircraft guns.
"4. To increase our production rate of merchant ships so rapidly
that in this year, 1942, we shall build 8,000,000 deadweight tons as
compared with a 1941 production of 1,100,000. We shall continue
that increase so that next year, 1943, we shall build 10,000,000
tons.
"These figures and similar figures for a multitude of other imple-

760

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

ship of Senator Harry S. Truman, of Missouri, March 30,
1943,' and from the affidavit of Robert P. Patterson, Unments of war will give the Japanese and Nazis a little idea of just
what they accomplished in the attack on Pearl Harbor.
"Our task is hard--our task is unprecedented-and the time is
short. We must strain every existing armament-producing facility
to the utmost. We must convert every available plant and tool to
war production. That goes all the way from the greatest plants to
the smallest-from the huge automobile industry to the village
machine shop.
"Production for war is based on men and women-the human
hands and brains which collectively we call labor. Our workers
stand ready to work long hours; to turn out more in a day's work;
to keep the wheels turning and the fires burning 24 hours a day,
and 7 days a week. They realize well that on the speed and efficiency
of their work depend the lives of their sons and their brothers on the
fighting fronts.
"Production for war is based on metals and raw materials--steel,
copper, rubber, aluminum, zinc, tin. Greater and greater quantities
of them will have to be diverted to war purposes. Civilian use of
them will have to be cut further and still further-and, in many cases,
completely eliminated.
"War costs money. So far, we have hardly even begun to pay
for it. We have devoted only 15 percent of our national income to
national defense. As will appear in my Budget Message tomorrow,
our war program for the coming fiscal year will cost $56,000,000,000
or, in other words, more than one-half of the estimated annual
national income. This means taxes and bonds and bonds and taxes.
It means cutting luxuries and other nonessentials. In a word, it
means an all-out war by individual effort and family effort in a
united country.
"Only this all-out scale of production will hasten the ultimate allout victory. Speed will count. Lost ground can always be regained-lost time never. Speed will save lives; speed will save this
Nation which is in peril; speed will save our freedom and civilization-and slowness has never been an American characteristic." 88
Cong. Rec. 32,33-34 (1942).
6 "Ever since the beginning of the last war there has been a constant effort to find an effective method of controlling war profits
without impeding war production. The renegotiation law is the latest
product of such efforts. To obtain speed we have had to use contracting methods that would never have been tolerated in peacetime.

LICHTER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

742

Footnote 6.-Continued.
We granted cost-plus-fixed-fee contracts where the specifications were
not known or had to be subject to numerous changes or where there
was no time to prepare detailed specifications. We also granted
lump-sum contracts for many items which had never before been
made in quantity and for which estimates of cost were mere guesses.
This was particularly true of the billions of dollars of war contracts
which were hastily 'shoveled' out early in January 1942.
"Is the renegotiation law a necessary and desirable method of
counteracting the wasteful effects of such necessary practices in early
wartime procurement? Is it being administered in such a way as
to give effect to 'the statutory intent? What changes, if any, are
needed?
"As to the necessity and desirability of the renegotiation law:
"(1) Because of the wartime need for rapid procurement of materials of war, new materials with which there has been no previous
manufacturing experience and other articles previously manufactured
only in relatively small quantities, some procedure for subsequent
price adjustment is necessary and desirable if excessive war profits
and costs are to be avoided.
"(2) Taxes alone will not do the job because (a) higher corporate
tax rates are likely to encourage higher costs and discourage economical production; (b) no scheme of taxation has been devised
which is sufficiently flexible to provide an incentive for efficient
low-cost prolluption; (c) a profit percentage which would fairly
reward one war contractor with one type of financial structure would
bankrupt a second contractor with a different financial set-up, and
would provide inordinately excessive profits for a third contractor
with a still different financial problem.
"(3) War contractors in most cases can protect themselves against
loss by escalator clauses and other contract provisions for contingencies. The people can obtain protection'in many cases only through
some procedure such as renegotiation.
"44) Experience has shown 'cost-plus' contracts to be worse than
worthless in the effort to prevent excessive costs. They strongly tend
to increase costs instead of the reverse.
"The administration of the renegotiation law during the first 10
months (ifits existence has been characterized by two significant
accomplishments:
"(1) The assembly in Government of an unusual group of able,
conscientious, and patriotic lawyers, accountants, and businessmen
as administrators of renegotiation;
792588 0-48-----53

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S,

der Secretary of War, dated August 3, 1945,' in the form
filed in each of the three cases before us.
"(2) The gradual education of war contractors as to the reasons
for and importance of their adopting a policy of tailoring their own
profits to levels which, in their own special situations, are fair both
to them and to the Government.
"On the other hand, the administration of the renegotiation law
and the law itself are properly subject to certain constructive criticisms:
"(1) Substantial variations in administrative policy and attitude
still exist among the four departments charged with responsibility
for renegotiation, although this condition has been noticeably improved in recent weeks. The existence of such a condition has
created wholly unnecessary confusion, uncertainty, and misunderstanding among contractors.
. "(2) Results of Navy renegotiations to date justify an inference
that in its early proceedings the Navy Price Adjustment Board may
have been too strongly influenced by a desire to achieve the same
kind of mathematical exactness which results from a cost-plus-apercentage-of-cost contract, a result which is inconsistent .with the
flexibility which was the basic purpose of the renegotiation law.
"(3) Army administration has been rendered unnecessarily cumbersome by use of military channels in the handling of an essentially
business and financial enterprise.
"(4) The principles and results of renegotiation have been shrouded
with entirely too much secrecy not only as to the public but as to
the renegotiators themselves, causing many war contractors to be
distracted by wholly unwarranted but nevertheless natural fears of
the unknown.
"(5) In some cases the cost audits incident to renegotiation and
taxation have been unnecessarily duplicatory.
"(6) It is impossible to recover every last dollar of excessive war
profits without unnecessarily interfering with war production, and
overzealous administration of the vast powers delegated by this law
could be seriously detrimental to war procurement." S. Rep. No.
10, Part 5,78th Cong., 1st Sess. 1-3 (1943).
"5. The necessary result of this combination of circumstances
is that the war procuring agencies cannot use normal methods of
procurement. The pressing need for speed requires the abandonment
of drawn-out negotiation and the careful surveys of all relevant
factors which sound purchasing would otherwise require. Competition necessarily wanes and no longer offers an adequate guide to

LICHTER v. UNITED STATES.
742

Opinion of the Court.

The above-mentioned excerpts describe a demand for
production of war supplies in proportions previously unthe prices which should be paid. Above all, the forecasting of costs
of production becomes, in large measure, a matter of informed guessing rather than of real cost analysis. This is true in the case of
new products, new plants, and new producers; it is likewise true,
though perhaps in lesser degree, wherever the quantities to be manufactured are sharply increased over pre-war amounts. Accordingly,
advance prices quoted in good faith by manufacturers in a large
number of cases have little relation to costs actually experienced in
the course of production. Furthermore, many manufacturers feel
unable to quote firm prices without including reserves to cover many
contingencies the occurrence of which might skyrocket their costs,
and so overturn all their estimates.
"6. These were the. conditions of wartime procurement, after December 7, 1941, and the War Department had to force its procurement activities into their mold. Efforts were made, of course, to
develop contractual devices which would minimize the paramount
difficulty in estimating production costs. The cost-plus-fixed-fee contract was used where unavoidable, but this form has the disadvantage
of removing financial incentives to efficiency and of imposing a heavy
burden of auditing upon the Government and the contractor. Escalator clauses, permitting prices to be adjusted according to fluctuations in indices of labor and material costs, were also used but proved
unworkable. Letters of intent, under which manufacture was commenced prior to the negotiation of a formal contract, helped to speed
production, but could not, of course, solve the ultimate problem
of decreasing costs and preventing excessive profits.
"7. Shortly after the declarations of war, both the legislative and
the executive branches of the Government realized that excessive
wartime profits were certain to accrue. unless counter measures were
taken. The evil effect of such wartime excessive profit on the morale
of the fighting forces and the 'civilian population, as well as the
unnecessary financial burden upon the Government, could not be
ignored. The example of the last war was still fresh. Many war
contractors realized the dangers and inequities resulting from such
excessive profit, and some of them made refunds of excessive profits
or voluntarily reduced their prices. In the spring of 1942, the War
Department developed cost analysis units to check, so far as practicable, on production costs, and set up a price adjustment board
to negotiate with contractors for voluntary price reductions and
refunds of past payments. Tentative polities as to what profits were

OCTOBER TERM4 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

imagined. They call for production in a volume never
before approximated and at an undreamed of speed.
excessive were established and meetings with contractors had. At
the same time, there came into use contract clauses providing for
the renegotiation or redetermination of contract prices after an initial
period of production had laid a basis for the proper estimation of
costs. We hoped that these means would keep incentives to efficiency alive and at the same time would tend to eliminate undue
profits such as were then coming to light.
"8. The Congress apparehtly felt, however, that these contractual
measures, resting as they did upon the voluntary cooperation of a
relatively small number of war contractors, did not provide enough
certainty that excessive profits would be eliminated. The VinsonTrammel Act, limiting profits on aircraft and ship construction, had
been repealed in 1940, but an effort was made to revive it. In March,
1942, the War Department and the War Production Board opposed
such legislation on the ground that a flat percentage profit limitation
would impede production and would be unfair to many contractors
and too generous to others. After the Case amendment imposing
such a flat percentage limitation on profits from war contracts had
been adopted by the House of Representatives late in March, 1942,
the armed services and the War Production Board offered a substitute
proposal giving statutory authority to the process of voluntary
renegotiation which had been developing. Congress adopted the principle of renegotiation with which the armed services were in accord
(rather than the principle of a flat percentage limitation of profits),
and it also endowed the procuring agencies with power to determine
excessive profits when no bilateral agreement could be reached with
the contractor. I believe that this addition by the Congress of the
power of unilateral action was a wise and a necessary one, and that
without it renegotiation would not have accomplished anything like
the results that have been achieved.
"12. . . . Some conception of the vast scope of the procurement
activity of the armed services after the attack on Pearl Harbor can
be gained from the fact that the total expenditures of the War and
Navy Departments for the one fiscal year ending June 30, 1942
($22,905,000,000) considerably exceeded the total military and naval
expenditures of the Government from 1789 through the end of
World War I." Affidavit of Robert P. Patterson, Under Secretary
of War, sworn to August 3, 1945.

LICHTER v. UNITED STATES.
742

Opinion of the Court.

The results amply demonstrated the infinite value of that
production in winning the war. It proved to be a sine
qua non condition of the survival of the nation. Not
only was it "necessary and proper" for Congress to provide for such production in the successful conduct of the
war, but it was well within the outer limits of the constitutional discretion of Congress and the President to do
so under the terms of the Renegotiation Act. Accordingly, the question before us as to the constitutionality of
the Renegotiation Act is not that of the power of the government to renegotiate and recapture war profits. The
only questions are whether the particular method of renegotiation and the administrative procedure prescribed
conformed to the constitutional limitations under which
Congress was permitted to exercise its basic powers.
Our first question relates to the method of adjusting
net compensation for war services through the compulsory
"renegotiation" of profits under existing contracts between private parties, including recourse to unilateral orders for payments into the Treasury of the United States
of such portions of those profits as were determined by the
administrative officials of that Government to be "excessive profits." There were added the limitations that the
contracts were for war goods in time of war, the ultimate
payment for which was, in any event, to come from the
Government and that, at the time of this impingement
of the Renegotiation Act upon them, the contracts must
not have been completed to the extent that final payments
had been made on them.
One approach to the question of the constitutioral
power of Congress over the profits on these contractg is
to recognize that Congress, in time of war, unquestionably has the fundamental power, previously discussed, to
conscript men and to requisition the properties necessary
and proper to enable it to raise and support its Armies.
Congress furthermore has a primary obligation to bring

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

about whatever production of war equipment and supplies shall be necessary to win a war. Given this mission,
Congress then had to choose between possible alternatives
for its performance. In the light of the compelling necessity for the immediate production of vast quantities of war
goods, the first alternative, all too clearly evident to the
world, was that which Congress did not choose, namely,
that of mobilizing the productive capacity of the nation
into a governmental unit on the totalitarian model. This
would have meant the conscription of property and of
workmen. It would have meant the raising of supplies
for the Armies in much the same manner as that in which
Congress raised the manpower for such Armies. Already
the nation had some units of production of military supplies in the form of arsenals, navy yards, and in the increasing number of governmentally owned, if not operated, war material plants. The production of the atomic
bombs was one example of a war industry owned and
operated exclusively by the Government. Faced with
this ironical alternative of converting the nation in effect
into a totalitarian state in order to preserve itself from
totalitarian domination, that alternative was steadfastly
rejected. The plan for Renegotiation of Profits which
was chosen in its place by Congress appears in its true
light as the very symbol of a free people united in reaching
unequalled productive capacity and yet retaining the
maximum of individual freedom consistent with a general
mobilizati6n of effort.
Somewhat crude in its initial statutory simplicity, the
Renegotiation Act developed rapidly as the demand for
war production increased beyond precedent. First approved April 28, 1942, less than five months after our
declaration of war, the Act was adjusted and strengthened
in its effectiveness and fairness by the numerous amendments made to it.8 The nation previously had expe8

See note 1, supra.

LICHTER v. UNITED STATES.
742

Opinion of the Court.

rienced different, but fundamentally comparable, federal
regulation of civilian liberty and property in proportion to
the increasing demands of modern warfare.'
The demands for war equipment and supplies were so
great in volume, were for such new types of products,
were subject to so many changes in specifications and were
subject to such pressing demands for delivery that accurate advance estimates of cost were out of the question.
Laying aside as undesirable the complete governmental
ownership and operation of the production of war goods
of all kinds, many alternative solutions were attempted.
Often these called for capital expenditures by the Gov9 McKinley v. United States 249 U. S. 397 (regulations of local
activities near federal military stations); Northern Pacific R. Co. v.
North Dakota, 250 U. S. 135 (seizure and operation of railroads);
Hamilton v. Kentucky Distilleries and W. Co., 251 U. S. 146 (local
liquor traffic); Central Union Trust Co. v. Garvan, 254 U. S. 554
(seizure of enemy property); Hirabayashiv. United States, 320 U. S.
81 (curfew regulations); Yakus v. United States, 321 U. S. 414
(Emergency Price Control Act); Bowles v. Willingham, 321 U. S.
503 (rent control); and Korematsu v. United States, 323 U. S. 214
(exclusion of civilians from west coast military area).
In Hirabayashiv. United States, supra, this Court said (p. 93):
"The war power of the national government is 'the power to wage
war successfully.' See Charles Evans Hughes, War Powers Under
the Constitution, 42 A. B. A. Rep. 232, 238. It extends to every
matter and activity so related to war as substantially to affect its
conduct and progress. The power is not restricted to the winning
of victories in the field and the repulse of enemy forces.
•...
Since the Constitution commits to the Executive and to Congress the exercise of the war power in all the vicissitudes and conditions of warfare, it has necessarily given them wide scope for the
exercise of judgment and discretion in determining the nature and
extent of the threatened injury or danger and in the selection of
the means for resisting it. . . . Where, as they did here, the conditions call for the exercise of judgment and discretion and for the
choice of means by those branches of the Government on which the
Constitution has placed the responsibility of war-making, it is not
for any court to sit in review of the wisdom of their action or substitute its judgment for theirs."

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

ernment in building new plant facilities. Adhering,
however, to the. policy of private operation of these
facilities, Congress and the Administration sought to pro'
mote a policy' of wide distribution of prime contracts and
subcontracts, even to comparatively high cost marginal
producers of unfamiliar products. Congress sought to do
everything possible to retain and encourage individual
initiative in the world-wide race for the largest and quickest production of the best equipment and supplies. It
clung to its faith in private enterprise. The problem was
to find a fair means of compensation for the services rendered and the goods purchased. Contracts were awarded
by negotiation wherever competitive bidding no longer
was practicable. Contracts were let at cost-plus-a-fixedfee. Escalator clauses were inserted. Price ceilings were
established. A flat percentage limit on the profits in certain lines of production was tried. Excess profits taxes'
were imposed. Appeals were made for voluntary refunds
of excessive profits. However, experience with these alternatives convinced the Government that contracts at
fixed initial prices still provided the best incentive to
production.1o
10"20. At the beginning of the limited emergency in 1939, the
only applicable'statutory limits on profits from the sale of military
or naval supplies were contained in thi Vinson-Trammel Act of
March 27, 1934, as amended (relating to naval vessels) and the
Merchant Marine Act of 1936, as amended (relating to construction
of merchant ships). The Act of April 3, 1939, extended percentage
profit limitation to cover Army aircraft contracts. • The percentage of
profit allowed to contractors was lowered to approximately 8% by
the Act of June 28, 1940, but the Second Supplemental National Defense Appropriation Act, 1941, enacted September 9, 1940, provided
that as to aircraft the old limitation of 12% was to prevail.
"21 ....
Accordingly, 'the Second Revenue Act of 1940, containing the excess profits tax, suspended the profit limitation statutes ap*plicable to Army and Navy contracts entered into after December
31, 1939, or uncompleted on that date by contractors and subcontractors subject to the new excess profits tax. Thereafter, until the

LICHTER v. UNITED STATES.
742

Opinion of the Court.

On February 16, 1942, this Court in United States v.
Bethlehem Steel Corp., 315 U. S. 289,.pointed to the
possibility of legislative relief. It said (p. 309):
"The problem of war profits is not
new. In this
country, every war we have engaged in has provided
opportunities for profiteering and they have been
too often scandalously seized. See Hearings before
the House Committee on Military Affairs on H. R. 3
and H. R. 5293, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., 590-598. To
meet this recurrent evil, Congress has at times taken
various measures. It has authorized price fixing.
It has placed a fixed, limit on profits, or has recaptured high profits through taxation. It has expressly reserved for the Government the right to
cancel contracts after they have been made. Pursuant to Congressional authority, the Government has
requisitioned existing production facilities or itself
built and operated new ones to provide needed war
materials. It may be that one or some or all of
these measures should be utilized more comprehensively, or that still other measures must be devised.
But if the Executive is in need of additional laws
by which to protect the nation against war profiteering, the Constitution has given to Congress, not to
this Court, the power to make them."
Finally the compulsory renegotiation of contracts was
authorized.. The procedure outlined in the Original Renegotiation Act, April 28, 1942, was rapidly perfected.
As it developed it required advance consents to such
renegotiation to be written into the respective contracts
passage of the Sixth Supplemental National Defense Appropriation
Act of 1942, the only statutory provisions concerning war or defense
contracts were those of the excess profits tax." Affidavit of Robert
P. Patterson, Under Secretary of War, sworn to August 3, 1945.
And see Hensel and McClung, Profit Limitation Controls Prior to
the Present War, 10 Law & Contemp. Prob. 187 (1943-1944).

770

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

and subcontracts for war goods prior to their award and
finally it made express provision for a redetermination
of the excessive profits, in a proceeding de novo before
the Tax Court, wherever a war goods contractor or subcontractor was aggrieved by the administrative order.
Throughout these developments extended congressional
and public consideration was given to the issues presented.11
The plan proved itself readily adaptable to the needs
of the time. It called for initial contract estimates based
upon the best available information at the time of enter"' The following significant congressional hearings were publicly
held:
Hearings before the Senate Committee on Finance on § 403 of
Pub. L. No. 528, 77th Cong., 2d Sess. (September 22 and 23, 1942) ;
Hearings before a Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on
Finance on § 403 of Pub. L. No. 528, 77th Cong., 2d Sess. (September
29 and 30, 1942) ;
Hearings before the Subcommittee of the House Committee on
Appropriations on Mil. Est. App. Bill for 1944, 78th Cong., 1st Sess.
483-518, 571-580 (June 10, 1943);
Hearings before the Subcoir'nittee of the Senate Committee on
Appropriations on H. R. 2996 (Mil. Est. App. Bill for 1944), 78th
Cong., 1st Sess. 22, 30-33, 125-138, 150-151 (1943) ;
Hearings before the House Committee on Naval Affairs, pursuant
to H. R. Res. 30, Vol. 2, 78th Cong., 1st Sess. (June 10-30, 1943) ;
Hearings before the House Committee on Ways and Means on H. R.
2324, 2698 and 3015 (Renegotiation of War Contracts), 78th Cong.,
1st Sess. (September 9-23, 1943);
Hearings before the Senate Committee on Finance on H. R. 3687
(Revenue Act of 1943), 78th Cong., 1st Sess. 49, 388-392, 402-424,
443-452, 465, 469, 598-601, 620-629, 669-684, 690-696, 925-926,
987-1111, 1121-1132 (November 29-December 15, 1943);
Hearings before the House Committee on Ways and Means on
H. R. .2628 (extension of termination date of Renegotiation Act),
79th Cong., 1st Sess. (April 12-16, 1945).
In addition, pri-ate hearings and interviews appear to have been
had by Congressional Committees.
The following major reports on the operation of the Renegotiation
Act were issued by Congressional Committees:

LICHTER v. UNITED STATES.
742

771

Opinion of the Court.

ing into the contracts. Production proceeded at once
on the basis of those estimates. Many factors were incapable of exact advance Jetermination. The final net
compensation, however, resulted from a renegotiation
made after both parties had had the benefit of actual
experience under the contract. This determination of the
allowable profit was guided by many relevant factors. A
list of commonly relevant factors was presented in an
early administrative directive. Later such a list was enacted into the statute. Each administrative determination was made subject to a redetermination in a proceeding de novo in the Tax Court provided a timely petition
for it was filed by the aggrieved contractor or subcontractor. The Act always has been limited in duration to
a period during and shortly following the war. In most
instances the Act has resulted in a disposition of cases
H. R. Rep. No. 733, 78th Cong., 1st Sess. (October 7, 1943).
Report of the Committee on Naval Affairs, pursuant to H. R. Res. 30
(Renegotiation of War Contracts);
Sen. Rep. No. 10, Part 5, 78th Cong., 1st Sess. (March 30, 1943).
Additional Report of the Special Senate Committee Investigating the
National Defense Program (Renegotiation of'War Contracts);
Sen. Rep. No. 10, Part 16, 78th Cong., 2d Sees. 40-64, 192-199
(March 4, 1944). Additional Report of the Special Senate Conwiittee Investigating the National Defense Program (Third Annual
Report) ;
H. R. Rep. No. 871, 78th Cong., 1st Sess. 75-90 (November 18,
1943), on H. R. 3687 (Revenue Bill of 1943);
Sen. Rep. No. 627, 78th Cong., 1st Sess. 98-119 (December 22,
1943), on H. R. 3687 (Revenue Bill of 1943) ;
H. R. Rep. No. 1079, 78th Cong., 2d Sess. 34-39, 76-88 (February
4, 1944), on H. R. 3687 (Conference Report on Revenue Act of

1943).
See also:
Renegotiation of War Contracts-Law, Debates and Other Legislative Materials-Compiled for the use of the House Committee on
Ways and Means, 78th Cong., 1st Sess. (1943);
Data on Renegotiation of Contracts, Senate Committee on Finance
(December 9, 1943).

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

by agreements reached between the parties."2 The controversies which have survived to this day are, in large
measure, not those dealing with the constitutionality of
the general effect of the plan or even with the finality of
redetermination under the prescribed administrative
procedure, but are those arising out of an alleged abuse
of discretion in its administration.
THE RENEGOTIATION ACT.

While there have been six legislative steps1 3 in the
development of the Renegotiation Act, the portions of
it that are especially material here consist of certain
12

In its brief filed jointly in the present cases the Government

has submitted the following statement as to the results of renegotiation:
"11. The results of renegotiation: We are advised by the War
Contracts Price Adjustment Board that as of June 30, 1947, 118,101
contractors had been assigned for renegotiation with respect to 1942
through 1946 fiscal years, and contracts aggregating over $190,000,000,000 (excluding contractors eliminated because of exemptions or
non-coverage) were subjected to renegotiation. Of the total assignments, 115,535 (or 97.8%) were completed as of June 30, 1947. Out
of the 115,535 completed assignments, 85,037 (or 73.6%) resulted in
cancellations or clearances indicating that no excessive profits had
been made or that the contractor was found to be exempt from
renegotiation; 28,889 (or 25%) resulted in bilateral
refund agreements between the Government and the contractor; 1,609 (or 1.4%)
resulted in unilateral determinations by the Departments or the
War Contracts Price Adjustment Board. Of the 30,498 assignments
involving determinations of excessive profits, 1,609 (or 5.28%) were
unilateral determinations and 28,889 (or 94.72%) were bilateral.
"Also as of June 30, 1947, the gross recoveries through renegotiation
amounted to some $10,434,637,000, and the estimated net recovery
(after deduction of the federal tax credit allowed contractors on
renegotiation refunds) amounted to $3,130,391,000. Of the total
gross recoveries of $10,434,637,000, some $895,493,000 (or 8.58%)
were involved in unilateral determinations and the rest were recovered
by voluntary agreement."
Is See note 1, supra.

LICHTER v. UNITED STATES.
742

Opinion of the Court.

language in the so-called Original Renegotiation Act contained in § 403 of the Sixth Supplemental Defense Appropriations Act, approved April 28, 1942; 1, in the
amendments made by the Revenue Act of 1942, October
21, 1942; " and its further amendment and substantial
expansion by § 701 (b) of the Revenue Act of 1943,
February 25, 1944.1' In that form it is sometimes called
the Second Renegotiation Act, but the entire § 403, both
in its original and amended forms may be properly cited
as the "Renegotiation Act.""
In the proceedings leading
up to the enactment of the Original Renegotiation Act,
an alternative in the form of a rigid limitation of profits
was rejected in favor of the more flexible definition
embodied in the term "excessive profits." 18 The War
Department Directive of August 10, 1942, entitled "Principles, Policy and Procedure to be Followed in Renegotiation" promptly stated the factors to be stressed in determining excessive profits. This directive was introduced
in the hearings held by the Finance Committee of the
Senate in September 1 and thus was before the Senate
at the time of the passage of the above-mentioned ReveFor relevant excerpts from its text, see Appendix I, infra, p. 793.
15 For relevant excerpts from its text, see Appendix II, infra, p. 795.
16 For relevant excerpts from its text, see Appendix III, inIra,
p. 798.
17 See § 403 (1) in note 1, supra.
I In the House of Representatives, the Case Amendment, providing
in effect a limitation of 6% on war profits was adopted without debate.
88 Cong. Rec. 3139-3140 (1942). Before the Senate Subcommittee
on Appropriations strong objection was made to this provision by the
representatives of the Government and its omission was iecommended
by the Senate Committee on Appropriations. After ample consideration it was omitted in the Act as passed. 88 Cong. Rec. 3378-3405;
3582-3599; 3647-3662; 3666 (1942), and see H. R. Rep. No. 2030,.
77th Cong., 2d Sess. 8-10 (1942).
19 Hearings before the Subcowmittee of the Senate Committee on
Finance on Pub. L. No. 528, 77th Cong., 2d Sess. 16-28 (September
29, 1942).
14

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.

-

Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

nue Act of 1942, October 21, 1942, which made important
amendments in the Renegotiation Act.
The "Joint Statement by the War, Navy, and Treasury
Departments and the Maritime Commission-Purposes,
Principles, Policies, and Interpretations" dealing with the
Renegotiation Act was issued March 31, 1943. This was
considered at the Hearings before the House Committee
on Naval Affairs, 78th Cong., 1st Sess., Vol. 2, pp. 469,
et seq., 1025-1039, especially 1028-1029 (1943). Finally
the above-mentioned Revenue Act of 1943, 58 Stat. 21, on
February 25, 1944, largely incorporated these views in
§ 403 (a) (4) (A),2 thus indicating congressional approval of this administrative practice and further assuring
continuity of it during the balance of the life of the Act.
DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY UNDER THE
RENEGOTIATION ACT.

The petitioners contend that the Renegotiation Act unconstitutionally attempted to delegate legislative power
to administrative officials. The United States does not
contest the right of the courts to decide the issues as to
the validity of the Act on its face in the present cases,
each of which was instituted after the petitioners' respective rights to a Tax Court redetermination had been
forfeited. We find no reason for not reaching here the
constitutionality of the Act. Cf. Aircraft & Diesel
Corp. v. Hirsch, 331 U. S. 752; Wade v. Stimsoh, 331 U. S.
793; Macauley v. Waterman S. S. Corp., 327 U. S. 540;
Yakus v. United States, 321 U. S. 414.
The constitutional argument is based upon the claim
that the delegation of authority contained in the Act
carried with it too slight a definition of legislative policy
and standards. Accordingly, it is contended that the
resulting determination of excessive profits which were
20

See Appendix III, infra, p. 798.

LICHTER v. UNITED STATES.
742

Opinion of the Court.

claimed by the United States amounted to an unconstitutional exercise of legislative power by an administrative official instead of a mere exercise of administrative
discretion under valid legislative authority. We hold
that the authorization was constitutional. Certainly as
spelled out in § 403 (a) (4) (A) 2 1 of the Second Renegotiation Act with respect to fiscal years ending after June
30, 1943, there can be no objection on this ground. This
question, therefore, relates to the delegation of authority
as made by the Act before the effective date of the Second
Renegotiation Act. The argument on this question is
limited to the Lichter and Alexander cases, inasmuch as
the excessive profits determined to exist in the Pownall
case were so found by the War Contracts Price Adjustment Board under the Second Renegotiation Act.
1. The Statutory Language.
The Original Renegotiation Act,22 approved April 28,
1942, provided in § 403 (b), (c), (d) and (e) for the renegotiation of all contracts and subcontracts thereafter made.
and alsp of all contracts and subcontracts theretofore
made by the War Department, the Navy Department or
the Maritime Commission, whether or not such contracts
or subcontracts contained a renegotiation or recapture
clause, provided the final payment pursuant thereto had
not been made prior to April 28, 1942. The renegotiation
was to be done by the Secretary of the Department concerned. For this purpose the Chairman of the Maritime
Commission was included in the term "Secretary." The
services of the Bureau of Internal Revenue were made
available upon the request of each Secretary, subject to
the consent of the Secretary of the Treasury, for the purposes of making examinations and determinations with
21
22

See Appendix III, infra, p. 798.
See Appendix I, infra, p. 793.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

respect to profits under the Section. The Secretary of
each Department was authorized and directed, whenever
in his opinion excessive profits had been realized or were
likely to be realized from any contract with such Department or- from any subcontract thereunder, to require the
contractor or subcontractor to renegotiate the contract
price. In case any amount of the contract price was
found as a result of such renegotiation to represent "excessive profits" which had been paid to the contractor or
subcontractor, the Secretary was authorized to recover
them.
There was no ejpress definition of the term "excessive
profits" in the Original Renegotiation Act. However, in
its § 403 (b) ," there was a relevant statement in connection with the renegotiation clauses required to be inserted
in future contracts and subcontracts for an amount in
excess of $100,000 each. The Secretary was required to
insert in such contracts, thereafter made by his Department, "a provision for the renegotiation of the contract
price at a period or periods when, in the judgment of the
Secretary, the profits can be determined with reasonable
certainty; . . . ." Contractors were also to be required
to insert a like provision in their subcontracts. This
statement indicated a relationship between current "excessive profits" and those which later might be determined with "reasonable certainty."
Also, in § 403 (d) 24 it was provided that, in 'renegotiating a contract price or determining excessive profits, the
Secretaries of the respective Departments should not
make allowances "for any salaries, bonuses, or other compensation paid by a contractor to its officers or employees
in excess of a reasonable amount, . . ." nor "for any
excessive reserves set up by the contractor or for any costs
23See

Appendix I, infra, p. 793.
See Appendix I, infra, p. 794.

214

LICHTER v. UNITED STATES.
742

Opinion of the Court.

incurred by the contractor which are excessive and unreasonable."
The amendments made to this Section by the Revenue
Act of 19425 approved October 21, 1942, were made effective as of April 28, 1942. At the tine they were
approved, Congress had knowledge of the War Departinent Directive of August 10, 1942, " which had been put
into effect stressing certain factors which the Secretary
emphasized in determining excessive profits. While Congress then. made several amendments to § 403, those
amendments did not alter the effect of such directive in
this particular. Among the amendments that were then
added there was the following purported definition of
''excessive profits": "The term 'excessive profits' means
any amount of a contract or subcontract price which is
found as a result of renegotiation to represent excessive
profits." In the light of the existing administrative practices this at least expressed a congressional satisfaction
with the existing specificity of the Act. The amendment
made to § 403 (c) (3)7 required the recognition of exclusions and deductions of the character afforded by certain
provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. The amendment to § 403 (c) (5)8 provided also that the Secretaries,
by joint regulation, might prescribe the form and detail in
which certain data might be filed by contractors and subcontractors bearing upon their profits under their contracts. This material concerned "statements of actual
costs of production" and "other financial statements for
2 See Appendix II, infra, p. 795.
21 Published as part of the material submitted by Under Secretary
of War Robert P. Patterson at the Hearings on the Renegotiation
of Contracts before a Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on
Finance on § 403 of Pub. L. No. 528, 77th Cong., 2d Sess. 28, 34-43
(September 29, 1942).
27 See Appendix II, infra, p. 796.
21See Appendix II, inf ra, p. 797.
792588 0-48-54

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

any prior fiscal year or years." Under some circumstances, in the absence of a notice from the Secretary and
in the absence of the commencement of renegotiations, it
was provided that "the contractor or subcontractor shall
not thereafter be required to renegotiate to eliminate
excessive profits realized from any such contract or subcontract during such fiscal year or years and any liabilities
of the contractor or subcontractor for excessive profits
realized during such period shall be thereby discharged."
A new subsection (i)" was added containing new exceptions and exemptions from the Act. The "Joint Statement by the War, Navy, and Treasury Department and
the Maritime Commission-Purposes, Principles, Policies, and Interpretations" issued March 31, 1943, 3 similarly contributed definiteness to the current administrative practice.
2. The Validity of the Delegation of Authority.
It is in the light of these statutory provisions and administrative practices that we must determine whether
the Renegotiation Act made an unconstitutional delegation of legislative power. On the basis of (a) the nature
of the particular constitutional powers being employed,
(b) the current administrative practices later incorporated into the Act and (c) the adequacy of the statutory
term "excessive profits" as used in this context, we hold
that the authority granted was a lawful delegation of
administrative authority and not an unconstitutional delegation of legislative power.
(a) A constitutionalpower implies a power of delegation of authority under it sufficient to effect its purposes.-This power is especially significant in connection
29See Appendix II, infra, p. 798.
30 See Hearings before the House Committee on Naval Affairs,
78th Cong., 1st Sess., Vol. 2, pp. 469, et seq., 1025-1039, especially
1028-1029 (1943).

LICHTER v. UNITED STATES.
742

779

Opinion of the Court.

with constitutional war powers under which the exercise
of broad discretion as to methods to be employed may be
essential to an effective use of its war powers by Congress.
The degree to which Congress must specify its policies and
standards in order that the administrative authority
granted may not be an unconstitutional delegation of its
own legislative power is not capable of precise definition.
In peace or in war it is essential that the Constitution be
scrupulously obeyed, 3 and particularly that the respective branches of the Government keep within the powers
assigned to each by the Constitution. On the other
hand, it is of the highest importance that the fundamental
purposes of the Constitution be kept in mind and given
effect in order that, through the Constitution, the people
of the United States may in time of war as in peace bring
to the support of those purposes the full force of their
3, "The 'question remains: What may be deemed to be the force
and effect in time of war of the restrictive provisions contained in
the constitution with respect to the exercise of federal authority?
It is manifest, at once, that the great organs of the National Government retain and perform their functions as the constitution prescribes. Senators and Representatives are qualified and chosen as
provided in the constitution and the legislative power vested in
the Congress must be exercised in the required manner. The President is still the constitutional Executive, elected in the manner provided and subject to the rest'aints imposed upon his office. The
judicial power of the United States continues to be vested in one
Supreme Court and such inferior courts as Congress has ordained.
Again, apart from the provisions fixing the framework of the Government, there are limitations which by reason of their express terms
or by necessary implication must be regarded as applicable as well
in war as in peace. Thus one of the expressed objects of the power
granted to Congress 'to lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts, and
Excises' is to 'provide for the common defence,' and it cannot be
doubted that taxes laid for this purpose, that is, to support the army
and navy and to provide the means for military operations, must
be laid subject to the constitutional restrictions." Address by Honorable Charles E. Hughes, of New York, on "War Powers Under the
Constitution," September 5, 1917, 42 A. B. A. Rep. 232, 241-242.

OCTOBER TERM,, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

united action. In time of crisis nothing could be more
tragic and less expressive of the intent of the people than
so to construe their Constitution that by its own terms it
would substantially hinder rather than help them in defending their national safety.
In an address by Honorable Charles E. Hughes, of
New York, on "War Powers Under The Constitution,"
September 5, 1917, 42 A. B. A. Rep. 232, 238-239, 247248, he said:
"The power to wage war is the power to wage war
successfully. The framers of the constitution were
under no illusions as to war. They had emerged from
a long struggle which had taught them the weakness
of a mere confederation, and they had no hope that
they could hold what they had won save as they
established a Union which could fight with the
strength of one people under one government entrusted with the common defence. In equipping the
National Government with the needed authority in
war, they tolerated no limitations inconsistent with
that object, as they realized that the very existence
of the Nation might be at stake and that every
resource of the people must be at command. ...
"The extraordinary circumstances of war may bring
particular business[es] and enterprises clearly into
the category of those which are affected with a public
interest and which demand immediate and thoroughgoing public regulation. The production and distribution of foodstuffs, articles of prime necessity,
those which have direct relation to military efficiency,
those which are absolutely required for the support
of the people during the stress of conflict, are plainly
of this sort. Reasonable regulations to safeguard the
resources upon which we depend for military success
must be regarded as being within the powers con-

LICHTER v. UNITED STATES.
742

Opinion of the Court.

fided to Congress to enable it to prosecute a successful
war.
"In the words of the Supreme Court: 'It is also
settled beyond dispute that the Constitution is not
self-destructive. In other words, that the power
which it confers on the one hand it does not immediately take away on the other .
," This was said
in relation to the taxing power. Having been granted
in express terms, the Court held it had not been taken
away by the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment. As the Supreme Court put it in another case:
'the Constitution does not conflict with itself by conferring upon the one hand a taxing power and taking
the same power away on the other by the limitations
of the due process clause.'
"Similarly, it may be said that the power has been
expressly given to Congress to prosecute war, and
to pass all laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying that power into execution. That power
explicitly conferred and absolutely essential to the
safety of the Nation is not destroyed or impaired by
any later provision of the constitution or by any one
of the amendments. These may all be construed so
as to avoid making the constitution self-destructive,
so as to preserve the rights of the citizen from unwarrantable attack, while assuring beyond all hazard
the common defence and the perpetuity of our liberties. These rest upon the preservation of the
nation.
"It has been said that the constitution marches.
That is, there are constantly new applications of
unchanged powers, and it is ascertained that in novel
and complex situations, the old grants contain, in
32Billings v.

United States, 232 U. S. 261, 282.
3 Brushaberv. Union Pacific R. Co., 240 U. S. 1, 24.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

their general words and true significance, needed and
adequate authority. So, also, we have a fighting
constitution. We cannot at this time fail to appreciate the wisdom of the fathers, as under this charter,
one hundred and thirty years old-the constitution of
Washington-the people of the United States fight
with the power of unity,-as we fight for the freedom
of our children and that hereafter the sword of autocrats may never threaten the world."
The war powers of Congress and the President are only
those which are to be derived from the Constitution but,
in the light of the language just quoted, the priinary implication of a war power is that it shall be an effective
power to wage the war successfully. Thus, while the
constitutional structure and controls of our Government
are our guides equally in war and in peace, they must be
read with the realistic purposes of the entire instrument
fully in mind.34
In 1942., in the early stages of total global warfare, the
exercise of a war power such as the power "To raise and
support Armies, . . " and "To provide and maintain a
Navy; . . . ," called for the production by us of war
goodE, in unprecedented volume with the utmost speed,
combined with flexibility of control over the product and
with a high degree of initiative on the part of the producers. Faced with the need to exercise that power, the
question was whether it was beyond the constitutional
power of Congress to delegate to the high officials named
therein the discretion contained in the Original Renegotiation Act of April 28, 1942, and the amendments of October
34, We the People of the United States, in Order to form a more
perfect Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide
for the common defence, promote the general Welfare, and secure
the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain
and establish this Constitution for the United States of America."
(Italics supplied.) U. S. Corst Preamble.

LICHTER v. UNITED STATES.
742

Opinion of the Court.

21, 1942. We believe that the administrative authority
there granted was well within the constitutional war
powers then being put to their predestined uses.
(b) The administrative practices developed under the
Renegotiation Act demonstrated the definitive adequacy
of the term "excessive profits" as used in the Act.-The
administrative practices currently developed under the
Act in interpreting the term "excessive profits" appear
to have come well within the scope of the congressional
policy. We have referred above to the War Department
Directive of August 10, 1942, ' 1 and to the Joint Departmental Statement 6f March 31, 1943,:"6 both of which were
placed before appropriate Congressional Committees.
These clearly stated practices are evidence of a current
correct understanding of the congressional intent. This
appears from the fact that the congressional action of
October 21, 1942, made effective as of April 28, 1942, was
taken in the light of the above-mentioned directive and
without restricting its effect. Furthermore, the congressional action taken February 25, 1944, and made effective
for the fiscal years ending after June 30, 1943, substantially incorporated into the statute the administrative
practice shown in the Joint Departmental Statement of
March 31, 1943. It thus became an express congressional definition of the factors appropriate for consideration in determining excessive profits, whereas before it
was an administrative interpretation of "excessive profits"
to the same effect.
(c) The statutory term "excessive profits," in its context, was a sufficient expression of legislative policy and
standards to render it constitutional.-The fact that this
term later was further defined both by administrative
action and by statutory amendment indicates the prob3 See notes 19 and 26, supra.
36 See note 30, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

able desirability of such added definition, but it does not
demonstrate that such further definition was a constitutional necessity essential to the validity of the original
exercise by Congress of its war powers in initiating a new
solution of an unprecedented problem. The fact'that
the congressional definition confirmed the administrative
practice which already was in effect under the original
statutory language tends to show that a statutory definition was not necessary in order to give effect to the
congressional intent.
In 1942 the imposition of excess profits taxes was a procedure already familiar to Congress, both'as an emergency
procedure to raise funds for extraordinary wartime expenditures, and as one to meet the needs of peace. The
recapture of excess income as applied by Congress to the
railroads had been upheld by this Court in 1924. Dayton-Goose Creek R. Co. v. United States, 263 U. S. 456.
The opinions of this Court in Yakus v. United States,
321 U. S. 414; Schechter Poultry Corp. v. United States,
295 U. S. 495, 529-542; and Panama Refining Co. v..
Ryan, 293 U. S. 388, 413-433, are not in conflict with
our present position.
The policy and purpose of Congress in choosing the
renegotiation of profits as an alternative to cost-plus contracts, to flat percentage limitations of profits, and to
100% excess profits taxes was an attempt to determine
a fair return on war contracts, under conditions where
actual experience alone could disclose what was fair and
when the primary national need was for the immediate
production of unprecedented quantities of new products.
The action of Congress was an expression of its wellconsidered judgment as to the degree of administrative
authority which it was necessary to grant in order to
effectuate its policy. This action of Congress came within
the scope of its discretion' as described by Chief Justice
Hughes in Panama Refining Co. v. Ryan, supra, at p.
421:

LICHTER v. UNITED STATES.
742

Opinion of the Court.

"Undoubtedly legislation must often be adapted to
complex conditions involving a host of details with
which the national legislature cannot deal directly.
The Constitution has never been regarded as denying
to the Congress the necessary resources of flexibility
and practicality, which will enable it to perform its
function in laying down policies and establishing
standards, while leaving to selected instrumentalities
the making of subordinate rules within prescribed
limits and the determination of facts to which the
policy as declared by the legislature is to apply.
Without capacity to give authorizations of that sort
we should have the anomaly of a legislative power
which in many circumstances calling for its exertion
would be but a futility."
It is not necessary that Congress supply administrative
officials with a specific formula for their guidance in a
field where flexibility and the adaptation of the congressional policy to infinitely variable conditions constitute
the essence of the program. "If Congress shall lay down
by legislative act al intelligible principle . . . such legislative action is not a forbidden delegation of legislative
power." Hampton Co. v. United States, 276 U. S. 394,
409. Standards prescribed by Congress are to be read in
the light of the conditions to which they are to be applied.
"They derive much meaningful content from the purpose
of the Act, its factual background and the statutory contextiin which they appear." American Power & Light Co.
v. S. E. C., 329 U. S. 90,104. The purpose of the Renegotiation Act and its factual background establish a sufficient
meaning for "excessive profits" as those words are used in.
practice." 'The, word "excessive": appears twice in the
" Excessive means: "Characterized by, or exhibiting, excess; as:
a Exceeding what is usual or proper; overmuch. b Greater than

the usual amount or degree; exceptional; very great."
New Inteinational Dictionaryj.2d ed. (1938).

Webster's

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

Eighth Amendment to the Constitution: "Excessive bail
shall not be required, nor excessive fines imposed.....
In the Original Renegotiation Act, § 403 (d),' there were
expressly disallowed to the contractor in determining his
profits "compensation paid by a contractor to its officers
or employees in excess of a reasonable amount, . . ."
and "any costs incurred by the contractor which are
excessive and unreasonable." "Excessive profits are those
in excess of reasonable profits." Spaulding v. Douglas
Aircraft Co., 154 F. 2d 419, 423.
The following, somewhat comparable, legislative specifications are among those which have been held to state a
sufficiently definite standard for administrative action:
"Just and reasonable" rates for sales of natural gas,
Federal Power Comm'n v. Hope Gas Co., 320 U. S. 591,
600-601; "public interest, convenience, or necessity" in
establishing rules and regulations under the Federal Communications Act, National Broadcasting Co. v. United
States, 319 U. S. 190, 225-226; prices yielding a "fair
return" or the "fair value" of property, Sunshine Coal Co.
v. Adkins, 310 U. S. 381, 397-398; "unfair methods of
competition" distinct from offenses defined under the
common law, Federal Trade Comm'n v. Keppel & Bro.,
291 U. S. 304, 311-312, 314; "just and reasonable" rates
for the services of commission men, Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United States, 280 U. S. 420, 431; and "fair and
reasonable" rent for premises, with final determination in
the courts, Levy Leasing Co. v. Siegel, 258 U. S. 242, 243,
248-250.
8. Methods Prescribed and Limitations Imposed on the
Administration.
The methods prescribed and the limitations imposed
by Congress upon the contemplated administrative action
38See Appendix I, infra, p. 794.

LICHTER v. UNITED STATES.
742

Opinion of the Court.

are helpful. The Act is confined to the duration of the
war or to a short time thereafter. Renegotiation, from
the beginning, has been confined to the elimination of
excessive profits from contracts and subcontracts with
certain governmental departments directly related to. the
conduct of the war. By subsequent amendments the
scope of the Act was limited by further express exceptions
and exemptions. The administrative officials to whom
authority was granted were clearly specified and were
all officials of high governmental responsibility. Each
was required to act whenever he found excessive profits
existed under the conditions defined. The provisions for
a redetermination of excess profits by the Tax Court de
novo are discussed later. They likewise imposed important limitations on the allowable recoveries.
Accordingly, we hold that the delegation of authority
here in issue, under the Renegotiation Act in its several
forms, was a constitutional definition of administrative
authority and not an unconstitutional delegation of legislative power.
THE RENEGOTIATION OF WAR CONTRACTS WAS NOT A TAKING
OF PRIVATE PROPERTY FOR PUBLIC USE.

The recovery by the Government of excessive profits
received or receivable upon war contracts is in the nature
of the regulation of maximum prices under war contracts
or the collection of excess profits taxes, rather than the
requisitioning or condemnation of private property for
public use. One of the primary purposes of the renegotiation plan for redetermining the allowable profit on
contracts for the production of war goods by private
persons was the avoidance of requisitioning or condemnation proceedings leading to governmental ownership and
operation of the plants producing war materials. A refund to the Government of excessive earnings of railroad
carriers under the recapture provisions of § 15a of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

Transportation Act of 1920, 41 Stat. 488, has been sustained by this Court. Dayton-Goose Creek R. Co. v.
United States, 263 U. S. 456. The collection of renegotiated excessive profits on a war subcontract also is not
in the nature of a penalty and is not a deprivation of
a subcontractor of his property without due process of
law in violation of the Fifth Amendment.
THE RENEGOTIATION ACT, INCLUDING ITS AMENDMENTS,
HAS BEEN PROPERLY APPLIED TO CONTRACTS ENTERED
INTO BEFORE ITS AND THEIR RESPECTIVE
ENACTMENTS.

The excessive profits claimed by the Government in
these cases arose out of contracts between the respective
petitioners and other private parties. None arose out
of contracts made directly with the Government itself.
All the contracts, however, related to subject matter
within the meaning of the Renegotiation Act in its respective stages. The contracts all were of the type which
came to be known, under the Act, as subcontracts. All,
except four in the Lichter case, were entered into after the
enactment of the Original Renegotiation Act, April 28,
1942, and on those four, the final payment had not been
made by that date. We therefore do not have before us an
issue as to the recovery of excessive profits on any contract
made directly with the Government nor on any subcontract upon which final payment had been made before
April 28, 1942, although relating to war goods made or
services performed after the declaration of war, December
8, 1941. Congress limited the Renegotiation Act to future contracts and to contracts already existing but pursuant to which final payments had not been made prior to
the date of enactment of the original Act. These included contracts made directly with the Government and
also subcontracts such as those here involved.

LICHTER v. UNITED STATES.
742

Opinion of the Court.

We uphold the right of the Government to recover
excessive profits on each of the contracts before us. This
right exists as to such 'excessive profits whether they
arose from contracts made before or after the passage of
the Act. A contract is equally a war contract in either
event and, if uncompleted to the extent that the final
payment has not yet been made, the recovery of excessive profits derived from it may be authorized as has
been done here.
While the Original Renegotiation Act may not have
expressly defined some of the contracts before us as subcontracts, the Act of October 21, 1942, in its amendments
effective as of April 28, 1942, did so. Accordingly, the
contracts entered into between private parties in the Alexander case between April 28, 1942, and October 21, 1942,
come within the scope of the Renegotiation Act.
THE TAX COURT REMEDY.

Before the amendments incorporated in it on February
25, 1944, by the Revenue Act of 1943 (the so-called Second
Renegotiation Act) the Original Renegotiation Act, as
theretofore amended, did not provide expressly for a review or redetermination of the initial determination of the
excess profits authorized to be made by the respective
Secretaries. The 1944 amendments added not merely an
express statement of factors to be taken into consideration
in determining excessive profits (§ 403 (a) (4) (A)),' but
also created a War Contracts Price Adjustment Board
(§ 403 (d) (1))"0 to make such determinations in the

future. Also, it provided expressly for petitions to be
filed with the Tax Court to secure redeterminations of
the orders of such Board. (§ 403 (e) (1).)41 It expressly
See Appendix III, inIra, p. 799.
10 See Appendix III, infra, p. 801.
41 See Appendix III, infra,p.801.
31

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

stated that "A proceeding before the Tax Court to finally
determine the amount, if any, of excessive profits shall
not be treated as a proceeding to review the determination
of the Board, but shall be treated as a proceeding de novo."
(§ 403 (e) (1).) It provided also that "In the absence
of the filing of a petition with The Tax Court of the
United States under the provisions of and within the time
limit prescribed in subsection (e) (1), such order [of the
Board] shall be final and conclusive and shall not be subject to review or redetermination by any court or other
agency." (§ 403 (c) (1).)"2 All of the determinations in
the cases before us were made after February 25, 1944,
and those in the Pownall case were made on behalf of the
Board. The above procedure under § 403 (e) (1) accordingly was open to the petitioners in the Pownall case but
they did not file a petition with the Tax Court.
In addition to the above procedures affecting future
determinations of excessive profits to be made by the
Board, the Second Renegotiation Act also made express
provisions, in § 403 (e) (2), ' for a redetermination by the
Tax Court of excessive profits determined to exist by the
respective Secretaries. These provisions applied first to
any determinations made by a Secretary prior to February
25, 1944, with respect to a fiscal year ending before July 1,
1943. In those instances a petition for redetermination
by the Tax Court was permitted to be filed within 90 days
after February 25, 1944. We have no such case before us.
These provisions applied also to any determination made
by a Secretary after February 25, 1944, with respect to a
fiscal year ending before July 1, 1943. In that event, a
petition for redetermination by the Tax Court was permitted to be filed within 90 days after the date of the
42
43

See Appendix III, infra, p. 800.
See Appendix III, infra, p. 801.

LICHTER v. UNITED STATES.
742

Opinion of the Court.

redetermination. We have such situations in the Lichter
and Alexander cases.
No petitions were filed with the Tax Court in any of
the cases before us, and the time for doing so has expired.
Accordingly, here, as in Aircraft & Diesel Corp. v. Hirsch,
331 U. S. 752, 771, we do not have before us, and we do
not express an opinion upon, the finality which would
have attached to a redetermination by the Tax Court
if such a redetermination had been sought and made.
We have only the situations presented by the respective
.failures of the petitioners to resort to the Tax Court
in the face of the express statutory provisions made for
such administrative relief.
As to the effect of the statute and of the course of
action taken, we hold that the statute did afford procedural due process to the respective petitioners but that ,
none of them made use of the procedure so provided for
them. Consistent with the primary need for speed and
definiteness in these matters, the original administrative
determinations by the respective Secretaries or by the
Board were intended primarily as renegotiations in the
course of which the interested parties were to have an
opportunity to reach an agreement with the Government
or in connection with which the Government, in the absbnce of such an agreement, might announce its unilateral
determination of the amount of excessive profit claimed
by the United States. This initial proceeding was not
required to be a formal proceeding producing a record for
review by some other authority. In lieu of such a procedure for review, the Second Renegotiation Act provided
an adequate opportunity for a redetermination of the
excessive profits, if any, de novo by the Tax Court. "The
demands of due process do not require a hearing, at the
initial stage or at any particular point or at more than one
point in an administrative proceeding so long as the requi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

site hearing is held before the final order becomes effective." Opp Cotton Mills v. Administrator,312 U. S. 126,
152-153.
We uphold the decisions below and the contentions of
the Government to the effect that the statutory provision
thus made for a petition to the Tax Court was not, in
any case before us, an optional or alternative procedure.
It provided the one and only procedure to secure a redetermination of the excessive profits which had been determined to exist by the orders of the respective Secretaries
or of the Board in the cases before us. Failure of the
respective petitioners to exhaust that procedure has left
them with no right to present here issues such as those
as to coverage and the amount of profits which might
have been presented there. Accordingly, there is excluded from our consideration in this proceeding the contention in the Lichter case that the petitioners' subcontracts were exempt from renegotiation on the ground that
they were subcontracts under prime contracts with a
Department of the Government and had been awarded
to them as the result of competitive bidding for the
construction of buildings and facilities. There is excluded
also, for example, the contention in the Pownall case that
petitioners' contracts which were for amounts under
$100,000 each were not subject to renegotiation. Likewise, in the Alexander case, there is excluded the petitioner's contention that it had not made excessive profits
within the meaning of the statute and that its contracts
for processing wool were not "subcontracts" within the
meaning of the Original Renegotiation Act.
For these reasons, we. uphold the constitutionality of
the Renegotiation Act on its face as authority for the
recovery of excessive profits as ordered in the three respective cases before us, and we hold that- the respective
petitioners do not have the right to present questions

LICHTER v. UNITED STATES.
742

Opinion of the Court-Appendix I.

as to the coverage of that Act, as to the amount of excessive profits adjudged to be due from them or as to
other comparable issues which might have been presented
by them to the Tax Court upon a timely petition to that
court for a redetermination of excessive profits, if any.
Accordingly, in each of the cases before us, the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY concurs in the' result in these
cases.

MR. JUSTI(E JACKSON concurs in the result in the Pownall case, but dissents in the Lichter and Alexander
cases.

[For opinion of MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, dissenting in
part, see post, p. 802.]
APPENDIX.
I.
Excerpts from the so-called Original or First Renegotiation Adt,
§ 403, Sixth Supplemental National Defense Appropriation Act, 1942,
approved April 28, 1942, c. 247, 56 Stat. 226,245-246.
"(a) . . . For the purposes of subsections (d) and (e) of this

section, the term 'contract' includes a subcontract and the term
'contractor' includes a subcontractor.
"(b) The Secretary of each Department is authorized and directed
to insert in any contract for an amount in excess of $100,000 hereafter
made by such Department (1) a provision for the renegotiation of
the contract price at a period or periods when, in the judgment of
the Secretary, the profits can be determined with reasonable certainty; (2) a provision for the retention by the United States or
the repayment to the United States of (A) any amount of the contract
price which is found as a result of such renegotiation to represent
excessive profits and (B) an amount of the contract price equal to
the amount of the reduction in the contract price of any subcontract
792588 0-48-5.5

794

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court-Appendix I.

334 U. S.

under such contract pursuant to the renegotiation of such subcontract
as provided in clause (3) of this subsection; and (3) a provision
requiring the contractor to insert in each subcontract for an amount
in excess of $100,000 made by him under such contract (A) a provision for the renegotiation by such Secretary and the subcontractor
of the contract price of the subcontract at a period or periods when,
in the judgment of the Secretary, the profits can be determined with
reasonable certainty, (B) a provision for the retention by the United
States or the repayment to the United States of any amount of the
contract price of the' subcontract which is found as a result of such
renegotiation, to represent excessive profits, and (C) a provision for
relieving the contractor from any liability to the subcontractor on
account of any amount so retained by or repaid to the United
States.
"(c) The Secretary of each Department is authorized and directed,
whenever in his opinion excessive profits have been realized, or are
likely to be realized, from any contract with such Department or
from any subcontract thereunder, (1) to require the contractor or
subcontractor to renegotiate the contract price, (2))to withhold from
the contractor or subcontractor any amount of the contract price
which is found as a result of such renegotiation to represent excessive
profits, and (3) in case any amount of the contract price found as a
result of such renegotiation to represent excessive profits shall have
been paid to the contractor or subcontractor, to recover such amount
from such contractor or subcontractor. Such contractor or subcontractor shall be deemed to be indebted to the United States for any
amount which such Secretary is authorized to recover from such contractor or subcontractor under this subsection, and such Secretary
may bring actions in the appropriate courts of the United States
to recover such amount on behalf of the United States. -All amounts
recovered under this subsection shall be covered into the Treasury as
miscellaneous, receipts. This subsection shall be applicable to all
contracts and subcontracts hereafter made and to all contracts and
subcontracts heretofore made, whether or not such contracts or
subcontracts contain a renegotiation or recapture clause, -provided
that final payment pursuant to such contract or subcontract has not
beej made prior to the date of enactment of this Act.
"(d) In renegotiating a contract price or determining excessive
profits for the purposes of this section, the Secretaries of the respective Departments shall not make any allowance kor any salaries,
bonuses, or other compensation paid by a contractor 'to its officers or
employees in excess of a reasonable amount, nor shall they make

LICHTER v. UNITED STATES.
742.

Opinion of the Court-Appendix I1.

allowance for any excessive reserves set up by the contractor or for
any costs incurred by the contractor which are excessive and unreasonable. For the purpose of ascertaining whether such unreasonable
compensation has been or is being paid, or whether such excessive
reserves have been or are being set up, or whether any excessive and
unreasonable costs have been or are being incurred, each such Secretary shall have the same powers with respect to any such contractor
that an agency designated by the President to exercise the powers
conferred by title XIII of the Second War Powers Act, 1942, has
with respect to any contractor to whom such title is applicable ...
"(e) In addition to the powers conferred by existing law, the
Secretary of each Department shall have the right to demand of
any contractor who holds contracts with respect to which the provisions of this section are applicable in an aggregate amount in excess
of $100,000, statements of actual costs of production and such other
financial statements, at such times and in such form and detail, as
such Secretary may require ....
56 Stat. 245.

II.

Excerpts from Title VIII, Renegotiation of War Contracts, Revenue Act of 1942, approved October 21, 1942, c. 619, 56 Stat. 798,
982-985, 26 U. S. C. A. Internal Revenue Acts Beginning 1940, Revenue Act of 1942, § 801, p. 376.
Section 801 of the Revenue Act of 1942 amended the Section in
several particulars, all effective as of April 28, 1942.' Among the
amendments were certain additions or changes contained in § 403 (a),
§ 403 (c) and § 403 (i) and reading as follows:
"SEC. 801. RENEGOTIATION OF WAR CONTRACTS.
"(a) Subsections (a), (b), and (c) of section 403 of the Sixth
Supplemental National Defense Appropriation Act (Public 528, 77th
Cong., 2d Sess.), are amended to read as follows:
"SE.c. 403. (a) For the purposes of this section"(4) The term 'excessive profits' means any amount of a
contract or subcontract price which is found as a result of renegotiation to represent excessive profits.
"(5) The term 'subcontract' means any purchase order or
agreement to perform all or any part of the work, or to make
or furnish any article, required for the performance of another
contract or subcontract. The term 'article' includes any mate-

796

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court-Appendix II.

334 U. S.

rial, part, assembly, machinery, equipment, or other personal
property.
"For the purposes of subsections (d) and (e) of this section,
the term 'contract' includes a subcontract and the term 'contractor' includes a subcontractor.
"(c) (1) Whenever, in the opinion of the Secretary of a Department, the profits realized or likely to be realized from any contract
with such Department, or from any subcontract thereunder whether
or not made by the contractor, may be excessive, the Secretary is
authorized and directed to require the contractor or subcontractor
to renegotiate the contract price. When the contractor or subcontractor holds two or more contracts or subcontracts the Secretary
in his discretion, may renegotiate to eliminate excessive profits on
some or all of such contracts and subcontracts as a group without
separately renegotiating the contract price of each contract or subcontract.
"(2) Upon renegotiation, the Secretary is authorized and directed to eliminate any excessive profits under such contract or
subcontract (i) by reductions in the contract price of the contract
or subcontract, or by other revision in its terms; or (ii) by
withholding, fromn amounts otherwise due to the contractor or
subcontractor, any amount of such excessive profits; or (iii) by
directing a contractor to withhold for the account of the United
States, from amounts otherwise due to the subcontractor, any
amount of such excessive profits under the subcontract; or (iv)
by recovery from the contractor or subcontractor, through repayment, credit or suit, of any amount of such excessive profits
actually paid to him; or (v) by any combination of these methods, as the Secretary deems desirable. The Secretary may bring
actions on behalf of the United States in the appropriate courts
of the United States to recover from such contractor or subcontractor, any amount of such excessive profits actually paid
.to him and not withheld or eliminated by some other method
under this subsection. The surety under a contract or subcontract shall not be liable for the repayment of any excessive
profits thereon. All money recovered by way of repayment
or suit under this subsection shall be covered into the Treasury
as miscellaneous receipts.
"(3) In determining the excessiveness of profits realized or
likely to be realized from any contract or subcontract, the See-

LICHTER v. UNITED STATES.
742

Opinion of the Court-Appendix II.
retary shall recognize the properly applicable exclusions and
deductions of the character which the contractor or subcontractor
is allowed under Chapter 1 and Chapter 2E of the Internal
Revenue Code. In determining the amount of any excessive
profits to be eliminated hereunder the Secretary shall allow the
contractor or subcontractor credit for Federal income and excess
profits taxes as provided in section 3806 of the Internal Revenue
Code.
"(4) Upon renegotiation pursuant to this section, the Secretary may make such final or other agreements with a contractor
or subcontractor for the elimination of excessive profits and
for the discharge of any liability for excessive profits under this
section, as the Secretary deems desirable. Such agreements may
cover such 'past and future period or periods, may apply to
such contract or contracts of the contractor or subcontractor,
and may contain such terms and conditions, as the Secretary
deems advisable ...
"(5) Any contractor or subcontractor who holds contracts or
subcontracts, to which the provisions of this section are applicable, may file with the Secretaries of all the Departments concerned statements of actual costs of production and such other
financial statements for any prior fiscal year or years of such
contractor or subcontractor, in such form and detail, as the
Secretaries shall prescribe by joint regulation. Within one year
after the filing of such statements, or within such shorter period
as may be prescribed by such joint regulation, the Secretary of
a Department may give the contractor or subcontractor written
notice, in form and manner to be prescribed in' such joint regulation, that the Secretary is of the opinion that the profits realized
from some or all of such contracts or subcontracts may be excessive, and fixing a date and place for an initial conference to be
held within sixty days thereafter. If such notice is not given
and renegotiation commenced by the Secretary within such sixty
days the contractor or subcontractor shall not thereafter be
required to renegotiate to eliminate excessive profits realized
from any such contract or subcontract during such fiscal year
or years and any liabilities of the contractor or subcontractor for
excessive profits realized during such period shall be thereby
discharged.
"(6) This subsection (c) shall be applicable to all contracts
and subcontracts hereafter made and to all contracts and sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court-Appendix III.

334 U. S.

contracts heretofore made, whether or not such contracts or
subcontracts contain a renegotiation or recapture clause, unless
(i) final payment pursuant to such contract or subcontract was
made prior to April 28, 1942,.
"(c) [SEC. 801.] Section 403 of the Sixth Supplemental National
Defense Appropriation Act (Public 52, 77th Cong., 2d Ses.), is
amended by adding at the end thereof the following subsections:

"(2) The Secretary of a Department is authorized,
in his dis).
cretion, to exempt from some or all of the provisions of this
section"(i) any contract or subcontract to be performed outside
of the territorial limits of the continental United States or
in Alaska;
"(ii) any contracts or subcontracts under which, in the
opinion of the Secretary, the profits can be determiined with
reasonable certainty when the contract price is established,
such as certain classes of agreements for personal services,
for the purchase of real property, 'perishable goods, or
commodities the minimum price for the sale of- which has
been fixed by a public regulatory body, of leases and license
agreements, and of agreements where the period of performance under such contract or subcontract will not be in
excess of thirty days; and
"(iii) a portion of any contract or subcontract or performance thereunder during a specified period or periods,
if in the opinion of the Secretary, the provisions of the
contract are otherwise adequate to'- prevent excessive
profits.
"The Secretary may so exempt contracts and subcontracts both individually and by general classes or types."
56 Stat. 982.

III.

Excerpts from the so-called Second Renegotiation Act, Title VII,
Renegotiation of War Contracts, passed notwithstanding the objec-

LICHTER v. UNITED STATES.
742

799

Opinion of the Court-Appendix III.

tions of the President, February 25, 1944, c. 63, 58 Stat. 21, 78-92,
50 U. S. C. (Supp. V, 1946) § 1191; also 26 U. S. C. A. Internal
Revenue Acts Beginning 1940, Revenue Act of 1943, § 701, p. 491.
While § 403 of the Sixth Supplemental National Defense Appropriation Act, 1942, as expanded by § 701 (b) of the Revenue Act, 1943,
is too long for reproduction here, the following excerpts from it are
especially relevant: §403 (a) (4) (A); §403 (c) (1); §403 (d) (1);
§403(d) (4); §403(e) (1); §403(e) (2); §403(1); see also,
§ 701 (d) of the Revenue Act of 1943:
"SEC. 701. RENEGOTIATION OF WAR CONTRACTS.

"(b) RENEGOTIATION OF' WAR CoNTRACTS.-Section 403, as
amended, of the Sixth Supplemental National Defense Appropriation
Act, 1942, is amehded to read as follows:
"SEc. 403. (a) For the purposes of this section"(4) (A) The term 'excessive profits' means the portion of the
profits derived from contracts with the Departments and subcontracts which is determined in accordance with this section to be
excessive. In determining excessive profits there shall be taken into
consideretion the following factors:
*"(i) efficiency of contractor, with particular regard to attainment of quantity and quality production, reduction of costs
and economy in the use of materials, facilities, and manpower;
"(ii) reasonableness of costs and profits, with particular regard
to volume of production, normal pre-war earnings, and comparison of war and :peacetime products;
"(iii) amount and source of public and private capital employed
and net worth;
"(iv) extent of risk assumed, including the risk incident to
reasonable pricing policies;
"(v) nature and extent of contribution to the war effort,
including inventive and developmental contribution and cooperation with the Government and other contractors in supplying
technical assistance;
"(vi) character of business, including complexity of manufacturing technique, character and extent of subcontracting, and
rate of turn-over;
."(vii) such other factors the consideration of which the public
interest and fair and equitable dealing may require, which factors

800

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court-Appendix III.

334 U. S.

shall be published in the regulations of the Board from time
to time as adopted.
"(c) (1) Whenever, in the opinion of the Board, the amounts
received or accrued under contracts with the Departments and subcontracts may reflect excessive profits, the Board shall give to the
contractor or Subcontractor, as the case may be, reasonable notice
of the time and place of a conference to be held with respect thereto.
The mailing of such notice by registered mail to the contractor or
subcontractor shall constitute the commencement of the renegotiation
proceeding. At the conference, which may be adjourned from time
to time, the Board shall endeavor to make a final or other agreement
with the contractor or subcontractor with respect to the elimination
of excessive profits received or accrued, and with respect to such other
matters relating thereto as the Board deems advisable. Any such
agreement, if made, may, with the consent of the contractor or subcontractor, also include provisions with respect to the elimination of
excessive profits likely to be received or accrued. If the Board does
not make an agreement with respect to the elimination of excessive
profits received or accrued, it shall issue and enter an order determining the amount, if any, of such excessive profits, and forthwith give
notice thereof by registered mail to the contractor or subcontractor.
In the absence of the filing of a petition with The Tax Court of the
United States under the provisions of and within the time limit
prescribed in subsection (e) (1), such order shall be final and conclusive and shall not be subject to review or redetermination by any
court or other agency. The Board shall exercise its powers with
respect to the aggregate of the amounts received or accrued during
the fiscal year (or such other period as may be fixed by mutual agreement) by a contractor or subcontractor under contracts with the
Departments and subcontracts, and riot separately with respect to
amounts received or accrued under separate contracts with the Departments or subconfracts, except that the Board may exercise such
powers separately with respect to amounts received or accrued by
the contractor or subcontractor under any one or more separate
contracts with the Departments or subcontracts at the request of the
-contractor or subcontractor. Whenever the Board makes a determination with respect to the amount of excessive profits, whether such
determination is made by order or is embodied in an agreement with
the contractor or subcontractor, it shall, at the request of the contractor or subcontractor, as the case may be, prepare and furnish
such contractor or. subcontractor with a statement of such deter-

LICHTER v. UNITED STATES.
742

801

Opinion of the Court-Appendix III.

mination, of the facts used as a basis therefor, and of its reasons for
such determination. Such statement shall not be used in The Tax
Court of the United States as proof of the facts or conclusions stated
therein.
"(d) (1) There is hereby created a War Contracts Price Adjustment Board (in this section called the 'Board'), which shall consist
of six members ...
"(4) The Board may delegate in whole or in part any power,
function, or duty to the Secretary of a Department, and any power,
function, or duty so delegated may be delegated in whole or in part
by the Secretary to such officers or agencies of the United States as
he may designate, and he may authorize successive redelegations of
such powers, functions, and duties.
'(e) (1) Any contractor or subcontractor aggrieved by an order
of the Board determining the amount of excessive profits received
or accrued by such contractor or subcontractor may, within ninety
days (not counting Sunday or a legal holiday in the District of
Columbia as the last day) after the mailing of the notice of such
order under subsection (c) (1), file a petition with The Tax Court
of the United States for a redetermination thereof. Upon such filing
such court shall have exclusive jurisdiction, by order, to finally determine the amount, if any, of such excessive profits received or accrued
by the contractor or subcontractor, and such determination shall not
be reviewed or redetermined by any court or agency. The court may
determine as the amount of excessive profits an amount either less
than, equal to, or greater than that determined by the Board. A
proceeding before the Tax Court to finally determine the amount,
if any, of excessive profits shall not be treated as a proceeding to
review the determination of the Board, but shall be treated as a
proceeding de novo. ...
"(2) Any contractor or subcontractor . . . aggrieved by a determination of the Secretary made prior to the date of the enactment
of the Revenue Act of 1943, with respect to a fiscal year ending
before July 1, 1943, as to the existence of excessive profits, which
is not embodied in an agreement with the contractor or subcontractor,
may, within ninety days (not counting Sunday or a legal holiday in
the District of Columbia as the last day) after the date of the enactment of the Revenue Act of 1943, file a petition with The Tax Court

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.

802

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting in part.

334 U. S.

of the United States for a redetermination thereof, and any such
contractor or subcontractor aggrieved by a determination of the Secretary made on or after the date of the enactment of the Revenue
Act of 1943, with respect to any such fiscal year, as to the existence
of excessive profits, which is not embodied in an agreement with the
contractor or subcontractor, may, within ninety days (not counting
Sunday or a legal holiday in the District of Columbia as the last
day) after the date of such determination, file a petition with The
Tax Court of the United States for a redetermination thereof. Upon
such filing such court shall have the same jurisdiction, powers, and
duties, and the proceeding shall be subject to the same provisions,.
as in the case of a petition filed with the court under paragraph (1),
except that the amendments made to this section by the Revenue
Act of 1943 which are not made applicable as of April 28, 1942, or
to fiscal years ending before July 1, 1943, shall not apply.
"(1)

This section may be cited as the 'Renegotiation Act'."

"(d) [SEC. 701.] EFFECTIVE DATE.-The amendments made by
subsection (b) shall be effective only with respect to the fiscal years
ending after June 30, 1943, except that (1) the amendments inserting
subsections (a) (4) (C), (a) (4) (D), (i) (1) (C), (i) (1) (D), (i)
(1) (F), (i) (3), and (1) in section 403 of the Sixth Supplemental
National Defense Appropriation Act, 1942, shall be effective as if
such amendments and subsections had been a part of section 403
of such Act on the date of its enactment, and (2) the amendments
adding subsection (d) and (e) (2) to section 403 of such Act shall
be effective from the date of the enactment of this Act." 58 Stat. 78.
MR.

JUSTICE DOUGLAS

dissenting in part.

The business involved in the Lichter case relates to
profits realized during the fiscal year ending December 31,
1942. As to the amounts owed under these contracts,
petitioners are entitled to a hearing in the District Court.
For Congress did not require that class of contracts to be
taken to the Tax Court. I think a close reading of the
*statutes, contained in Appendix III to the Court's opinion,
will bear me out.

LICHTER v. UNITED STATES.
742

DouLAS, J., dissenting in part.

Section 403 (e) (1) relates to orders of the Board and
provides that they may be reviewed by the Tax Court.
And § 403 (c) (1) provides that in the absence of the
filing of such a petition with the Tax Court, the orders
of the Board "shall be final and conclusive."
But we are concerned here not with orders of the Board.
but with an order of the Secretary. Section 403 (e) (2)
provides that those orders, too, may be taken to the Tax
Court. But § 403 (e) (2) by its terms makes inapplicable
those provisions of the 1943 amendment which are not
made applicable as of April 28, 1942, or to the fiscal years
ending before July 1, 1943. Thus, § 403 (c) (6) limits
subsection (c) "to all contracts and subcontracts, to the
extent of amounts received or accrued thereunder in any
fiscal year ending after June 30, 1943, whether such contracts or subcontracts were made on, prior to, or after the
date of the enactment of the Revenue Act of 1943."
Hence it is clear that the provision of § 403 (c) (1) which
makes the orders of the Board final and conclusive in
absence of the filing of a petition with the Tax Court is not
applicable here. Orders of the Secretary, at least as respects 1942 business, are therefore treated differently than
orders of the Board. I conclude that the purpose was to
leave contracts and contractors who fell in that category
with the right of access to the courts which they had enjoyed prior to the Revenue Act of 1943. In those cases
jurisdiction of the Tax Court may be invoked at the option
of the petitioners.
_
Macauley v. Waterman S. S. Corp., 327 U. S.540, is not
opposed to-this conclusion' . For that case involved an
order of the board. Wade v. Stimson, 331 U. S. 793,
involved an order of the Secretary and related to 1942
business. But the question in issue here was not raised
there, as it is not in Alexander Wool Combing Co. v.
UnitedStates, decided this day.

