OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

REPUBLIC NATURAL GAS CO. v.
OKLAHOMA ET .AL.
APPEAL FROM THE StJPREME COURT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 134.

Argued January 6, 1948.-Decided May 3, 1948.

One of two producers of natural gas in the same Oklahoma field was

ordered by the State Commission to take gas "ratably" from, and
to connect its pipeline with the well of, the other, on terms and
conditions to be agreed upon by the parties or to be fixed by the
Commission if the parties were unable to agree. The validity under
the Federal Constitution of the order and of the state law which
authorized it were sustained by the State Supreme Court, which
interpreted the-order as giving the respondent the choice of taking
and paying for the gas, marketing the gas and accounting therefor,
or shutting down its own wells. Held: The judgment of the
State Supreme Court was not 'final" within the meaning of § 237
of'the Judicial Code, and this Court is therefore without jurisdiction of an appeal therefrom. Pp. 62-72.
198 Okla. 350,.180 P. 2d 1009, appeal dismissed.

An order of the State Corporation Commission of
Oklahoma, directing the appellant to take gas ratably
from another producer in the same field, was sustained
by the State Supreme Court. 198 Okla. 350, 180 P. 2d
1009. An appeal to this Court is here dismissed for the
want of a "final" judgment, p. 72.
Robert M. Rainey and John F. Eberhardt argued the
cause and filed a brief for appellant. Robert C. Foulston
was also of counsel.
Earl Pruet argued the'cause for appellees. With him
on the brief were Mac Q. Williamson, Attorney General'
of Oklahoma, and Floyd Green.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the

*Cou,rt.'
This is an appeal from a decision of the Supreme
Court of Oklahoma, arising from an order of the State

REPUBLIC GAS CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
62

. Opinion of the Court.

Corporation Commission which concerned the correlative rights of owners of natural gas drawn from
common source.
Since 1913, Oklahoma has regulated the extraction of
natural gas, partly to prevent waste and partly to avoid
excessive drainage as between producers sharing the same
pool. The legislation provided that owners might take
from a common source amounts of gas proportionate to
the natural flow of their respective wells, but riot more
than 25% of that natural flow without the consent of
the Corporation Commission; that any person.taking gas
away from a. gas field, except for certain specified purposes, "shall take ratably from each owner of the gas
in proportion to his interest in said gas"; and that such
ratable taking was to be upon terms agreed upon by the
various well owners, or, in the event. of failure to agree,
upon terms fixed by the Corporation Commission.'
The Hugoton Gas Field is one of the largest in the
United States, covering a vast area in several States,
including Oklahoma. It was discovered in 1924 or 1925,
1L. 1913, c. 198, §§ 1-3 (Okla. Stat. (1941) tit. 52, §§ 231-33):
"Section 1. All natural gas under the surface of any land in this
state is hereby declared to be and is the property of the owners, or
gas lessees, of the surface under which gas is located in its original
state.
"Section 2. Any owner, or oil and gas lessee, of the surface, having
the right to drill for gas shall have the right to sink a well to the
natural gas underneath the same and to take gas therefrom until the
gas under such surface is exhausted. In case other parties, having
the right to drill into the common reservoir of gas, drill a well or wells
into the same, then the amount of gas each owner may take therefrom

shall be proportionate to the natural flow of his well or wells to the
natural flow of the well or wells of such other owners of the same

common source of supply of gas, such natural flow to be determined
by any standard measurement at the beginning of each calendar
nmonth; provided, that not more than twenty-five per cent of the

natural flow of any well shall be taken, unless for good cause shown,
and upon notice and hearing the Corporation Commission may, by

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

but the Oklahoma portion was not developed until 1937.
Republic, a Delaware corporation, obtained permission
to do business in Oklahoma in 1938, purchased gas leases
in this field and drilled wells, removing the gas in its
own pipelines. In 1944, the Peerless Oil and Gas Company completed a well in a portion of the gas field otherwise tapped only by Republic. It, had no market for
the gas obtained from this well, nor means of transporting
such gas to any market. It offered to sell the gas to
Republic, which refused it. Peerless then applied to the
proper order, permit the taking of a greater amount. The drilling
of a gas well or wells by an), owner or lessee of the surface shall be
regarded as reducing to possession his share of such gas as is shown
by his well.
"Section 3. Any person, firm or corporation, taking gas from a
gas field, except for purposes of developing a gas or oil field, and
operating oil wells, and for the purpose of his own domestic use, shall
take ratably from each owner of the gas in proportion to his interest
in said gas, upon such terms as may be agreed upon between said
owners and the party taking such, or in case they cannot agree at
such a price and upon such terms as may be fixed by the Corporation
Commission after notice and hearing; provided, that each owner
shall be required to deliver his gas to a common point of delivery on
or adjacent to the surface overlying such gas."
See also L. 1915, c. 197, §§4, 5 (Okla. Stat. (1941) tit. 52, §§ 239,
240):
"Section 4. That whenever the full production from any common
source of supply of natural gas in this state is in excess of the market
demands, then any person, firm or corporation, having the right to
drill into and produce gas from any such common source of supply,
may take therefrom only such proportion of the natural gas that
may be marketed without waste, as the natural flow of the well or
wells owned or controlled by any such person, firm or corporation
bears to the total natural flow of such common source of supply
having due regard to the acreage drained by each well, so as to prevent any such person, firm or corporation securing any unfair proportion of the gas therefrom; provided, that the Corporation Commission may by proper order, permit the taking of a greater amount
whenever it shall deem such taking reasonable or equitable. The
said commission is authorized and directed to prescribe rules and

REPUBLIC GAS CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
62

Opinion of the Court.

Corporation Commission for an order requiring Republic
tq take such gas from it "ratably"-that is, to take the
same proportion of the natural flow of Peerless' well as
Republic took of the natural flow of its own wells. After
a hearing, the Commission found that the production of
natural gas in the Hugoton field was in excess of the
market demand; that Republic had qualified to do business in Oklahoma with full knowledge of the existing
legislation requiring the ratable taking of natural gas;
and that Republic was taking more than its ratable share
regulations for the determination of the natural flow of any such well
or wells, and to regulate the taking of natural gas from any or all
such common sources of supply within the state, so as to prevent
waste, protect the interests of the public, and of all those having a
right to produce therefrom, and to prevent unreasonable discrimination in favor of any one such common source of supply as against
another.
"Section 5. That every person, firm or corporation, now or hereafter engaged in the business of purchasing and selling natural gas
in this state, shall be a common purchaser thereof, and shall purchase
all of the natural gas which may be offered for sale, and which may
reasonably be reached by its trunk lines, or gathering lines without
-discrimination in favor of one producer as against another, or in favor
of any one source of supply as against another save as authorized by
the Corporation Commission after due notice and hearing; but if any
such person, firm-or corporation, shall be unable to purchase all the
gas so offered, then it shall purchase natural gas from each producer
ratably. It shall be unlawful for any such common purchaser to
discriminate between like grades and pressures of natural gas, or in
favor of its own production, or of production in which it may be
directly or indirectly interested, either in whole or in part, but for the
purpose of prorating the natural gas to be marketed, such production
shall be treated in like manner as that of any other producer or
person, and shall be taken only in the ratable proportion that such
production bears to the total production available for marketing.
The Corporation Commission shall have authority to make regulations for the delivery, metering and equitable purchasing and taking
of all such gas and shall have authority to relieve any such common
purchaser, after due notice and hearing, from the duty of purchasing
gas of an inferior quality or grade."

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

of gas from that portion of the field tapped both by its
wells and that belonging to Peerless, thereby draining
gas away from Peerless' tract and, in effect, taking property belonging to Peerless. The Commission ordered
Republic:

"1. . . .to take gas ratably from applicant's
[Peerless'] well . . ., and to make necessary connection as soon as applicant lays a line connecting said
well with respondent's [Republic's] line, and to continue to do so until the further order of this Commission; provided that, applicant shall lay its line from
its well to the lines of respondent at some point
designated by the respondent, but in said Section 14
in which said well of Peerless Oil and Gas Company
has been drilled; and said respondent is required to
make said designation immediately and without unreasonable delay, and in event of failure of respondent so to do, respondent shall no longer be permitted
to produce any of its wells located in the Hugoton
Oklahoma Gas Field.
"2. The terms and conditions of such taking of
natural gas by Republic Natural Gas Company from
said Peerless Oil and Gas Company's well shall be
determined and agreed upon by and between applicant and respondent; and in the event said parties
are unable to agree, applicant and respondent are
hereby granted the right to make further application
to the Commission for an order fixing such terms and
conditions; and the Commission retains jurisdiction
hereof for said purpose."
On appeal, the Oklahoma Supreme Court affirmed,
holding that Republic, having been given leave to enter
the State on the basis of the legislation governing natural
gas production, might not challenge its validity, and that
neither the order nor the legislation on which it is based

REPUBLIC GAS CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
62

Opinion of the Court.

runs counter to asserted constitutional rights. 198 Okla.
350. The court interpreted the Commission's order as
giving Republic "a choice between taking the gas from
Peerless and paying therefor direct, or marketing the gas
and accounting to Peerless therefor, or to shut in its own
production from .the same common source of supply."
198 Okla. at 356. Invoking both the Due Process and
the Equal Protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment, Republic appealed to this Court.
This case raises thorny questions concerning the regulation of fugacious minerals, of moment both to States
whose economy is especially involved and to the private
enterprises which develop these natural resources. Cf.
Thompson v. Consolidated Gas Utilities Corp., 300 U. S.
55; Railroad Commission v. Rowan & Nichols Oil Co.,
310 U. S. 573, 311 U. S. 570. Before reaching these
constitutional issues, we must determine whether or not

we have jurisdiction to do so.
Ever since 1789, Congress has granted this Court the
power of review in State litigation only after "the highest
court of a State in which a decision in a suit could be had"
has rendered a "final judgment or decree." § 237 of the
Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 344, rephrasing § 25 of the

Act of September 24, 1789, 1 Stat. 73, 85. Designed to
avoid the evils of piecemeal review, this reflects a marked
characteristic of the federal judicial system, unlike that
of some of the States. This prerequisite for the exercise
of the appellate powers of this Court is especially pertinent when a constitutional barrier is asserted against
a State court's decision on matters peculiarly of local
concern.

Close observance of this limitation upon the

Court is not regard for a strangling technicality. History
bears ample testimony that it is an important factor in
securing harmonious State-federal relations.
No self-enforcing formula defining when a judgment
is "final" can be devised. Tests have been indicated

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

which are helpful in giving direction and emphasis to
decisiofi from case to case. Thus, the requirement of
finality has not been met merely because the major issues
in a case have been decided and only a few loose ends
remain to be tied up-for example, where liability has
been determined and all that needs to be adjudicated
is the amount of damages. Bruce v. Tobin, 245 U. S.
18; Martinez v. International Banking Corp., 220 U. S.
214, 223; Mississippi Central R. Co. v. Smith, 295 U. S.
718. On the other hand, if nothing more than a ministerial act remains to be done, such as the entry of a
judgment upon a mandate, the decree is regarded as
concluding the case and is immediately reviewable.
Board of Commissioners v. Lucas, 93 U. S. 108; Mower v.
Fletcher, 114 U. S. 127.
There have been instances where the Court has entertained an appeal of an order that otherwise might be
deemed interlocutory, because the controversy had proceeded to a point where a losing party would be irreparably injured if review were unavailing. Cf. Clark v. Williard,294 U. S. 211; Gumbel v. Pitkin, 113 U. S. 545; and
compare Forgay v. Conrad,6 How. 201, 204, with Barnard
v. Gibson, 7 How. 650, 657. For related reasons, an order
decreeing immediate transfer of possession of physical
property is final for purposes of review even though an
accounting for profits is to follow. In such cases the accounting is deemed a severed controversy and not part
of the main case. Forgay v. Conrad, supra; Carondelet
Canal Co. v. Louisiana, 233 U. S. 362; Radio Station
WOW v. Johnson, 326 U. S. 120. But a decision that a
taking by eminent domain is for a public use, where the
amount of compensation has not been determined, is not
deeme final, certainly where the property will not change
hancts until after the award of compensation. Grays
Harbor Logaing Co. v. Coats-FordneyCo., 243 U. S. 251;

REPUBLIC GAS CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
62

Opinion of the Court.

cf. Luxton -v. North River Bridge Co., 147 U. S. 337; Catlin v. United States, 324 U. S. 229.2 One thing is clear.
The considerations that determine finality are not abstractions but have reference to very real interests-not
merely those of the immediate parties but, more particularly, those that pertain to the smooth functioning of our
judicial system.
On which side of the line, however faint and faltering
at times, dividing judgments that were deemed "final"
from those found not to be so, does the judgment before
us fall? The order of the Oklahoma Corporation Commission, as affirmed below, terminates some but not all
issues in this proceeding. Republic is required to take
ratably from Peerless, but it may do so in any one of three
ways. If, as is most probable, Republic would choose not
to close down its own wells, under the Commission's order
it must allow Peerless to connect its well to Republic's
pipeline. But there has been left open for later determination, in event of failure to reach agreement, the terms
upon which Republic must take the gas, the rates which
it must pay on purchase, or may charge if it sells as agent
of Peerless. Does-either its alternative character, or the
fact thatit leaves matters still open for determination, so
qualify the order as to make it short of "final" for present
review?
We turn first to the latter point. Certainly what
remains to be done cannot be characterized as merely
"ministerial." Whether or not the amount of gas to be
taken by Republic from Peerless can be ascertained
through application of a formula, the determination of the
2

In the Catlin case our decision was lased on the general rule

that condemnation orders prior to determination of just compensation are not al)l)ealable. The wartime statutes there involved were
urged by the clainmants as a reason for not applying the general
rule. We rejected this contention.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

price to be paid for the gas if purchased, or the fees to
be paid to Republic for maiketing it if sold on behalf
of Peerless, clearly requires the exercise of judgment2
Nor is there any immediate threat of irreparable damage
to Republic, rendering postponed review so illusory as
to make the decree "final" now or never. The Commission's order requires Republic to designate a point ou its
pipeline at which Peerless might attach a line, and after
Peerless had done so to connect it immediately. But it
does not appear that the order requires Republic to cdmmence taking Peerless' gas before the terms of taking have
either been agreed upon or ordered by the Commission.
Nor does it appear that Republic would have to bear the
expense of connecting the pipeline, nor that such expense
would be substantial. Indeed, the incurring of some loss,
before a process preliminary to review here is exhausted, is
not in itself sufficient to authorize our intervention. Cf.
Myers v. Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corp., 303 U. S. 41, 5052. But even if the Commission's order were construed
to require Republic to take and dispose of Peerless'
gas immediately-and we are not so advised by the
State court-there is no ground for assuming that any loss
that Republic might incur could not be recovered should
the completed direction of the Oklahoma Commission, on
affirmance by that State's Supreme Court, ultimately be
found to be unconstitutional. Merely because a party to
a litigation may be temporarily out of pocket, is not sufficient to warrant immediate review of an incomplete
State judgment. Appellant, of course, has the burden of
3This case is unlike those in which a rate had been fixed, subject
to a continuing jurisdiction to modify it later. Cf. Market Street R.
Co. v. Railroad Commission, 324 U. S. 548; St. Louis, Iron Mountain
& Southern R. Co. v. Southern Express Co., 108 U. S. 24. Here,

no rates have been set, and their future establishment has been left
open.

REPUBLIC GAS CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
62

Opinion of the Court.

affirmatively establishing this Court's jurisdiction
Memphis Natural Gas Co. v. Beeler, 315 U. S. 649, 651.
The policy against premature constitutional adjudications
demands that any doubts in maintaining this burden be
resolved against jurisdiction. See citation of cases in the
concurring opinion of Mr. Justice Brandeis in Ashwander
v. Tennessee Valley Authority, 297 U. S. 288, 341, 345,
348.
The condemnation precedents attract this case more
persuasively than do the accounting cases. Where it is
claimed that a decree transferring property overrides an
asserted federal right, as in Forgay v. Conrad,supra, and
Radio Station WOW v. Johnson, supra, no disposition
of the subsequent accounting proceeding can possibly
make up for the defeated party's loss, since the party
who has lost the property must also pay to his opponent
what the accounting decrees. Hence his desire to appeal
the issue of the right to the property will almost certainly
persist. On the other hand, in an eminent domain case,
as in a case like this, the fate of the whole litigation may
well be affected by the fate of the unresolved contifigencies
of the litigation. An adequate award in an eminent domain case or a profitable rate in the case before us might
well satisfy the losing party to acquiesce in the disposition of the earlier issue. It is of course not our province
to discourage appeals. But for the soundest of reasons
we ought not to pass on constitutional issues before they
have reached a definitive stop. Another similarity between this case and the condemnation cases calls for
abstention until what is organically one litigation has
been concluded in the State. It is that the matters left
open may generate additional federal questions. This
brings into vivid relevance the policy against fragmentary
review. In accounting cases, that which still remains to
be litigated can scarcely give rise to new federal questions.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
DOUGLAS,

J., concurring.

334 U. S.

The policy against fragmentary review has therefore little
bearing. But contests over valuation in eminent domain
cases, as price-fixing in this type of case, are inherently
provocative of constitutional claims. This potentiality
of additional federal questions arising out of the same
controversy has led this Court to find want of the necessary finality of adjudicated constitutional issues in condemnation decrees before valuation has been made. Like
considerations are relevant here.
In short, the guiding considerations for determining
whether the decree of the court below possesses requisite
finality lead to the conclusion that this case must await
its culmination in the judicial process of the State before
we can assume jurisdiction. "Only one branch of the
case has been finally disposed of below, therefore none of
it is ripe for review by this court." Collins v. Miller,
252 U. S. 364, 371. This makes it unnecessary to consider whether the mere fact that the decree gave alternative commands precluded it from being final. Cf. Paducah v. East Tennessee Tel. Co., 229 U. S. 476; Jones's
Adm'r v. Craig, 127 U. S. 213; Note, 48 Harv. L. Rev.
302, 305-306. Since the judgment now appealed from
lacks the necessary finality, we cannot consider the merits.
All of Republic's constitutional objections are of course
saved.
Appeal dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

concurring.

The judgment of the Oklahoma court is not "final"
merely because it establishes that Republic has no right
to drain away the Peerless gas without paying for it. I
think it would be conceded that, even so, the judgment
would not be "final" if it offered appellant three alternative ways to comply and there were doubts as to the constitutionality of any one of them. Then we would wait.

REPUBLIC GAS CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
62

DOU(;LAS,

J.,

concurring.

to see which of the alternatives was ultimately selected
or imposed before reviewing the constitutionality of any
of them. But there would be no more reason to defer
decision on the merits in that case than in this. For
the constitutional questions would be isolated in each
and we would be as uncertain in one as in the other which
of the alternatives would actually apply to appellant.
And the principle seems to me to be the same even when
a majority of us would sustain the order whatever alternative was chosen as its sanction.
There is, of course, in the one case the chance of saving
the order only if one remedy rather than another is
chosen, while in the other the order would survive whichever was chosen. But in each we would be giving needless constitutional dissertations on some points. That is
nonetheless true in a case where the constitutional questions seem to a majority of us simple, uncomplicated and
of no great dignity. For the single constitutional question necessary for decision will not be isolated until the
precise pinch of the order on the appellant is known. It
will not be known in the present case at least until appellant elects or is required (1) to shut down, (2) to become
a carrier of the Peerless gas, or (3) to purchase it.
The legal, as well as the economic, relationship which
Republic will bear to Peerless will vary as one or another
choice is made. To make Republic a "carrier" is to submit it to different business risks than to make it a "purchaser." The fact that each would raise only questions
of "due process" under the Fourteenth Amendment does.
not mean that the questions are identical. Even when
reasonableness is the test, judges have developed great
contrariety of opinions. The point is that today the
variables are presented only in the abstract. Tomorrow
the facts will be known, when the precise impact of the
order on appellant will be determined. Thus to me the.
7928 0.-4---10

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

334 U. S.

policy against premature constitutional adjudication precludes us from saying the judgment in the present case
is "final."
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE, with whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK,
MR. JUSTICE' MURPHY, and MR. JUSTICE BURTON join,
dissenting.

I think the Oklahoma Supreme Court's judgment is
final for the purposes of § 237 of the Judicial Code, 28
U. S. C. § 344, that the state commission's order is valid,
and that deferring decision on the merits to some indefinite future time will only prolong an already lengthy
litigation unnecessarily and with possible irreparable
harm to one party or the other.
Appellant, Republic Natural Gas Company, has operated gas wells in the Hugoton Gas Field for many years.
It was the first major producer to exploit the Oklahoma
portion of the field,' having constructed its own gathering
system and pipe lines extending from Oklahoma into
Kansas. With only minor exceptions Republic has never
carried any but its own gas in its pipe lines.2 198 Okla.
at 352.
In 1944 appellee, Peerless Company, completed its
only well in Oklahoma, in the Hugoton field. This well
is not connected to any pipe line. It therefore presently
lies dormant. Surrounding Republic wells drilled into
the same reservoir concededly are draining gas constantly
from under the Peerless land.3 Except for the part of
I Republic has 92 wells in Kansas and 38 in Oklahoma.
2 The Oklahoma Supreme Court found it unnecessary to consider
whether Republic was either a common carrier or a common purchaser
of gas. 198 Okla. at 353. The term "common purchaser" is explained in Okla. Stat., tit. 52, § 240.
Appellant concedes that the "operation of the Republic wells is
draining gas from under the dormant Peerless well." The findings
of the commission state:

"(d)

Republic ...

is taking and will

continue to take more than its proportionate part of the natural

REPUBLIC GAS CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
62

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

Republic's gathering system which runs acros the Peerless land, no market outlet that would take sufficient gas
to justify production of the Peerless well is close enough
to make it financially practical for Peerless to construct
its own pipe line. It is undisputed that the only feasible
method of producing the well is to require Republic to
take Peerless gas into its gathering system.'
For this reason Peerless applied to the Oklahoma Corporate Commission for an order compelling Republic to
connect its pipe line to the Peerless well and to purchase
gas from Peerless at a price to be fixed by the commission.
After hearing, the commission concluded that the applicable Oklahoma statutes I required it to enforce ratable
taking and ratable production of gas as between Republic
and Peerless.
The commission recognized alternative methods of protecting Peerless from loss due to drainage, first by ordering
gas in said field unless required to take ratably from said well of

Peerless ...
"(e) Republic

. . .

is draining gas from underneath said Section

14 into which said Peerless Oil and Gas Company's well has been
drilled, and will continue to drain gas from underneath said Section
14 until all the gas thereunder has been drained and Peerless ...
will be prevented from taking its proportionate share of the natural
gas in the field unless Republic . . .is required to take gas ratably
from (Peerless]."

'The Report of the commission states: "It is evident from all the
facts and circumstances in this case that if the Peerless Company is
to be allowed to produce gas from its well, this gas must be by it
transported fifteen to thirty miles, unless said gas is transported or
disposed of by the Republic Natural Gas Company.
"It would be'impractical from a financial standpoint to construct
a pipeline to any city or other market outlet that would take sufficient
gas to justify the production of this well; and it would be impossible
to economically operate the well under present conditions existing
in that field unless the gas is taken into the pipeline of the Republic
Natural Gas Company."
5Okla. Stat., tit. 52, §§ 232, 233, 239,240, 243.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

334 U. S.

all wells in the area to shut down completely, and second
by ordering Republic to purchase from Peerless. Since
the first method was considered harsh, the second was
preferred. Accordingly the commission issued an order
requiring Republic to take gas ratably from the Peerless
well as soon as the necessary connection could be made,
allowing it, however, the alternative of closing down all
of its wells in the Oklahoma portion of the field if it
preferred this to taking the Peerless gas. The terms
and conditions of the taking were to be determined by
the parties; but, in the event of failure to agree, they
were "granted the right to make further application to
the Commission for an order fixing such terms and
conditions ....
6 The taking, however, was not to
await this agreement or further order; it was to begin
at once.'
"The order required Republic " ....
to take gas ratably from
[Peerless] and to make necessary connection as soon as applicant
lays a line connecting said well with respondent's line, and to continue
to do so until the further order of this Commission; provided that,
applicant shall lay its line from its well to the lines of respondent
at some point designated by the respondent, but in said Section 14
in which said well of Peerless . . . has been drilled; and said respondent is required to make said designation immediately and without
unreasonable delay, and in event of failure of respondent so to do,
respondent shall no longer be permitted to produce any of its wells
located in the Ilugoton Oklahoma Gas Field. [Emphasis added.]
"2. The terms and conditions of such taking of natural gas by
[Republic] from [Peerless] shall be determined and agreed upon
by and between applicant and respondent; and in the event said
parties are unable to agree, applicant and respondent are hereby
granted the right to make further application to the Commission
for an order fixing such terms and conditions; and the Commission
retains jurisdiction hereof for said purpose."
See note 6. The order's language leaves no room for the inference, which appears to be injected here, that the taking was not
required to begin until the terms had been agreed upon or determined
Loy further order.

REPUBLIC GAS CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
62

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

Affirming the order, the Supreme Court of Oklahoma
construed the state statutes to authorize the administrative action. 198 Okla. 350. The case thus presents on
the merits the question whether a state, as a means of
adjusting private correlative rights in a common reservoir,
has the power in such circumstances as these to compel
one private producer to share his market with another,
when otherwise his production would drain off that other's
ratable share of the gas in place and thus appropriate it
to himself.
I.
The majority consider that the proceedings in the state
tribunals have not terminated in a final judgment from
which appeal to this Court lies, and therefore refuse to
adjudicate this question.
In the strictest sense the state proceedings will not be
completed until the parties have agreed upon the terms
and conditions of Republic's taking of gas from Peerless or, if they do not agree, until the commission
has issued an additional order fixing those terms. Since
it is not certain that the parties will agree, the possibility
remains that a further order may be required before all
phases of the controversy are disposed of. It is this
possibility, as I think a remote one, which furnishes one
of the grounds for concluding that the Oklahoma court's
judgment is not final within the meaning and policy of
§ 237.
The fact that all phases of the litigation are not concluded does not necessarily defeat our jurisdiction. This
is true, although as recently as Gospel Army v. Los Angeles, 331 U. S. 543, we reiterated that, for a judgment to
be final and reviewable under § 237, "it must end the litigation by fully determining the rights of the parties, so
that nothing remains t,be done by the trial court 'except
the ministerial act of entering the judgment which the

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

334 U. S.

appellate court . .. directed.'" 331 U. S. at 546. This
is the general rule, grounded in a variety of considerations
reflected in the statutory command I and coming down
to the sum that, in exercising the jurisdiction conferred
by § 237, this Court is not to be concerned with reviewing
inconclusive, piecemeal, or repetitious determinations.
The Gospel Army case represents a typical instance for
applying the terms and the policy of § 237.' But not
every decision by a state court of last resort leaving the
controversy open to further proceedings and orders is
either inconclusive of the issues or premature for purposes
of review under § 237. This appears most recently from
the decision in Radio Station WOW v. Johnson, 3 6
U. S. 120, which applied a settled line of authorities
to that effect. Cf. Richfield Oil Corp. v. State Board, 329
U. S. 69.
In such cases the formulation of the test of finality
made in the Gospel Army and like decisions has not been
followed. Instead that question, in the special circumstances, has been treated as posing essentially a practical
problem, not one to be determined either by the label
attached to the state court judgment by local law, Richfield Oil Corp. v. State Board, supra, or by the merely
mechanical inquiry whether some further order or proceeding beyond "the ministerial act of entering the judgment" may be had or necessary after our decision is rendered. Radio Station WOW v. Johnson, supra at 125.
The WOW opinion noted that the typical case for
applying the broader, less mechanical approach to the
"Some of the considerations are enumerated in Radio Station
WOW v. Johnson, 326 U. S.120, 123-124.
"Under California procedure the state supreme court's unqualified
order for reversal was "effective to remand the case 'for a new trial
and [place] the parties in the same position as if the case had never
been tried.'" 331 U. S. at 546 and authorities cited. The effect
was thus to leave all issues inconclusively determined pending further
proceedings in the trial court.

REPUBLIC GAS CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
62

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

question of finality had involved judgments directing the
immediate delivery of property, to be followed by an
accounting decreed in the same order. It stated, with
reference to these and like situations: "In effect, such a
controversy is a multiple litigation allowing review of
the adjudication which is concluded because it is independent of, and unaffected by, another litigation with
which it happens to be entangled." 326 U. S. at 126.
Accordingly, since the two phases of the controversy were
separate and distinct, we exercised our jurisdiction to
determine the federal questions involved in the phase'
concluded by the state court's decision. This was done,
although the judgment required further and possibly extensive judicial proceedings before the other and separable
phase of the accounting could reach a final determination."0 Those further proceedings involved very much
more than "ministerial acts"; indeed the determination
of a complicated accounting requires the highest order of
judicial discretion.
Notwithstanding this and despite the want of strict
finality, jurisdiction was sustained because a number of
factors were felt to require that action in order to give
effect to the policy of § 237 providing for review, rather
than to a merely mechanical application of its terms for
denying review.
There was nothing tentative or inconclusive about the
Nebraska court's judgment for immediate delivery of the
property. Nor was it necessary to execution of that
phase of the judgment to have contemporaneous conclu1o The two prior decisions deemed decisive against mechanical determination of finality in such situations were Forgay v. Conrad, 6
How. 201, and Carondelet Canal Co. v. Louisiana, 233 U. S. 362,

the former of which we noted had "stood on our books for nearly
a hundred years in an opinion carrying the authority, especially

weighty in such matters, of Chief Justice Taney."
125.

326 U. S. 120,

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

334 U. S.

sion of the accounting phase. Except for the latter, the
judgment was ripe for review. Indeed immediate execution without review of the federal questions affecting
the delivery phase until after the accounting had been
completed, offered the possibility of irreparable harm to
one or possibly both of the parties. This factor obviously
tended to make later full review partly or wholly futile.
Moreover, until the delivery phase had been settled, it
could not be known whether the accounting would be
necessary, for that need was consequentially incident to
and dependent upon determination of the core of the litigation, which was the right to delivery.
In these circumstances it was rightly considered more
consistent with the intent and purpose of § 237 to allow
immediate review, notwithstanding the possibility of a
later further review in the accounting phase, than to
deny review with the chance that a later one might
not fully save the parties' rights. The section's policy
to furnish full, adequate and prompt review outweighed
any design to secure absolute and literal "finality."
In all these respects this case presents a parallel to the
WOW case too close, in my opinion, for distinguishing between them. Republic is not directed to negotiate terms
and on completing the negotiation to make its facilities
available to Peerless. It is ordered to make a connection
with Peerless and to begin carrying gas at once. That
phase of the order, like the delivery phase in the accounting cases, does not await the fixing of the terms whether
by agreement or by further order." It is a present obligation, effective immediately and without qualification."
See Knox Loan Assn. v. Phillips,300 U. S. 194, 198.
"See notes 6, 7 supra and'text.
12 In the remote event that Republic should elect to shut down production, there would be no need for a further order or agreement of
the parties, and the presently erected obstacle to finality would be
completely removed.

REPUBLIC GAS CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
62

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

Moreover there is nothing tentative or inconclusive
about this phase of the order or the state judgment sustaining it. That phase not only is separable from the
matter of fixing the terms; like the order for delivery in
the WOW case, it is the main core of the controversy
to which the aspect of fixing terms is both consequential
and incidental. The WOW order required immediate
delivery of property, with consequent possibility of irreparable harm. Here the order required immediate
acceptance of delivery, with similar possibility of injury
for one party or the other."
Neither is there greater likelihood of piecemeal consideration of constitutional and other questions than in the
WOW case. Cf. 326 U. S. at 127. The matter of fixing
terms here hardly can be more difficult practically or more
complex legally than making the accounting in the WOW
case." It is hard also to see how one would be either more
or less likely to throw up new constitutional issues than
13

To permit Republic to continue drainage from beneath Peerless'
land for the indefinite period required for sending the case back

to the Oklahoma tribunals and then bringing it back here a second
time will be to deprive Peerless of that 'gas unless the state law
allows compensation for such continued taking from the date of
the present order. It is at least highly doubtful that the state law
allows such a remedy, even if the order is eventually held valid.
On the other hand, if the order should be invalidated.on the
deferred review, Republic will have been put to further and unnecessary delay, uncertainty and expense in ascertaining its rights, merely
to secure a determination which cannot possibly affect them. If this
may not be irreparable injury, it certainly is not the policy of § 237.
14 In view of marketing conditions in this industry, no such problem
of valuation or of reaching agreement upon it would be presented
as, for instance, in the case of seeking to place a value upon real
estate taken by condemnation for public use or valuation of property
for rate-making purposes. The idea that determining the value of
the gas taken here would present all the difficulties of valuing a
railroad for rate-making purposes blows the matter up beyond all
the practicalities of the situation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE, J., dissenting.

334 U. S.

the other. Nor can the WOW case. be taken to rule that
this Court could not or would not consider constitutional
issues arising on the accounting phase, unlikely though
the necessity for its doing so may have been. There is
thus a substantially complete parallel between the situation now presented and that in the WOW line of cases.
In one respect this case is stronger for finding appealable finality. For here no further order may be necessary
or made, since present resolution of the basic constitutional problem in all probability will end the entire controversy. That certainly would be the result if the decision should go against Peerless or if Republic should elect
,to shut down production. And if the decision should be
in Peerless' favor, it is hardly likely that the parties will
be unable to agree upon terms since, in case of failure
to agree, the commission will prescribe them. 5 The-case
indeed is not basically a controversy over terms at all.
They present only a contingent, collateral matter. What
is fundamentally at stake is the right of Republic to take
the gas from beneath Peerless' land and market it without
paying Peerless for it. Once that question is finally
determined, as it can be only by this Court's decision of
the constitutional question, the need for a further order
will become highly improbable.
This case therefore is one in which the need for further
proceedings may never arise and almost certainly would
not do so if the constitutional question were now determined. Indeed, in a closer factual application than the
WOW case, it presents in the jurisdictional aspect an
almost exact parallel to the order reviewed in Pierce Oil
Corp. v. Phoenix Refining Co.; 259 U. S. 125, where the
Oklahoma commission required the appellant to carry oil
for the appellee at unspecified rates. Cf., Gulf Refining
, See note 14.

REPUBLIC GAS CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
62

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

Co. v. United States, 269 U. S. 125; Clark v. Williard,
292 U. S. 112.
The parallel to the WOW line of decisions, however,
is put aside and this case is decided by analogy to condemnation cases, particularly Grays Harbor Logging Co.

v. Coats-Fordney Co., 243 U. S. 251. The analogy is
inapposite. It is true that in such cases this Court
generally, though not uniformly,"6 has held that the trial
court judgment is not final until after the award of
compensation is made. The decisions were properly
rendered, but for reasons not applicable here. In the
Grays Harbor case the state constitution and controlling
legislation prohibited the transfer of the condemned property until after the compensation had been determined and
paid. Thus the issue of the right to take was necess rily
dependent for final resolution on the determination of the
amount of compensation." The controversy- was not
.separable into distinct phases as in the WOW che and
here. 243 U. S. at 256.' Igor had the state judgment
already affected the appellant's property rights, as was
true in the WOW case and is true here.,
In Catlin v. United States, 324 11. S. 229, the question
of the right to take was settled conclusively below before
the award of damages was fixed. :But there to have permitted an appeal from the order transferring possession
would have produced delays inconsistefit with the over16Wheeling

U. S. 287.

& Belmont Bridge Co. v. Wheeling Bridge Co., 138

2iThe
same was said to be true of Luxton v. North River Bridge.
Co., 147 U. S. 337. See id. 341.
18
Moreover, under state practice review of the condemnation brder
by the state supreme court was by certiorari, not by appeal which
lay only from the order fixing damages. As a matter of state law,
therefore, the judgment on the condemnation order was interlocutory. See, however, as to this Catlin v. United States, 324 U. S.'229,
234; Luxton. v. North River Bridge Co., 147 U. S. 337.'

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

334 U. S.

riding purpose and policy of the War Purposes and Declaration of Taking Acts. 26 Stat. 316, as amended by
40 Stat. 241, 518; 46 Stat. 1421. 324 U. S. at 235, 238,
240. Here the converse is true, for to refuse to pass on
the merits can serve only to prolong the litigation without
compensating advantage for the policy of § 237 or other
enactment. There is no overriding policy of independent
legislation, comparable to that of the War Purposes and
Declaration of Taking Acts, dictating .denial or deferring
of review.
The asserted analogy to the Grays Harbor, Catlin and
Luxton (see note 17) cases therefore does not hold for the
entirely different situations now presented. In them
either there was no separable phase of the litigation; or
statutory policy independent of § 237 or other like requirement of finality forbade review before ultimate disposition
of every phase of the litigation in the state or inferior federal courts. The condemnation cases therefore, though
generally uniform in denying review of orders for condemnation prior to award of damages, are not uniform
in resting this result wholly on the requirement of "finality" made by § 237 and like provisions for review, but
frequently rest on other and independent grounds pertinent to the application of those provisions.
The "penumbral area" of appealable finality, see 326
U. S. at 124, may not be sweeping in its scope. It is nevertheless one essential to prevent the letter of the section
from overriding its reason. For this purpose it would
seem to comprehend any situation presenting separable
phases of litigation, one involving the core or crux of
the controversy between the parties, the other collateral
matters dependent for the necessity of their consideration
and decision upon final and unqualified disposition of
the hub of the dispute. If a merely mechanical application of § 237 is to be avoided, it cannot be taken that the
practical approach of the WOW line of decisions must

REPUBLIC GAS CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
62

I UTLED;E,

.J., dissenting.

be limited exclusively to cases where an accounting is
ordered to follow delivery of property decreed at the
same time. The reason of the exception, indeed of § 237
itself, is not so limited. Because the delivery and accounting cases are not the only ones presenting such
problems, judgment must be given some play in other
situations as well to decide whether the vices excluded by
the policies underlying § 237 are present, as they may be
or not according to the character and effects of the particular determination sought to be reviewed.
Finally, it hardly can be that merely the alternative
character of the order per se deprives it of finality, regardless of whether any of the alternatives presents a substantial federal question. Because Republic is allowed
to choose between shutting down its wells and carrying
or purchasing the Peerless gas, it seems to be thought
that the order lacks finality until that choice is made,
even though when made either course would be clearly
within the state's power to require.
The argument would have more force if the difference
between the alternatives were great enough to make it
likely that contrary results might be reached on the different alternatives. But where as here the difference
emphasized, e. g., is merely between the passage of title
before and after the carriage, it is hard to see how there
could be more difficulty with one alternative than with
the other. See Part II; also Part IV. So minor a distinction hardly furnishes a substantial basis for contrariety of judicial opinion on due process questions. Nor
is it suggested that allowing the choice between either
of those two courses and shutting down presents greater
difficulty. Given constitutionality of all alternatives, it
no more transcends state power to permit the party
affected to select the course least onerous than to require
him to follow the one most burdensome. It is equally
hard to see how giving the choice destroys the order's

OCTOBER TERM, 1947
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

-334U. S.

finality, unless again a wholly mechanical conception of
that term as used in § 237 is to control.
The section's policy is against hypothetical, premature
and piecemeal constitutional decision, not against a choice
of alternatives presenting no such problem. Here the
question is whether Oklahoma can offer Republic the
choice of shutting down production or taking and paying
for the Peerless gas. Either course will protect the latter's rights against drainage by Republic. Either standing alone in the order's terms would not affect finality.
Neither, merely upon the premise that alternative character per se destroys finality, presents a doubtful question of
constitutionality. And finally the alternative of shutting
down, realistically considered, is more nearly sanction
than alternative mode of compliance.'
In such' circumstances to say that coupling the two
courses alternatively deprives the order of finality seems
to me to be giving to the terms of § 237 a mechanical
application out of harmony with the section's policy, just
as does refusing to decide the case before it is known
whether a further order may be necessary for fixing the
price of the Peerless gas. Such a view can only handicap administrative actiQn either by forcing orders to specify a single course of compliance when alternatives may
be much more desirable, or by delaying review and thus
19 Cf. Wabash,and Erie Canal v. Beers, 1 Black 54; Milwaukee and
Minnesota R. Co. v. Soutter, 2 Wall. 440.
Control of production, of course, is the core of state conservation
programs. In Champlin Rig. Co. v. Comm'n, 286 U. S. 210, proration orders limiting production of oil wells to as little as six per cent
of capacity were sustained. See p. 229. Cf. Walls v. Midland Carbon Co., 254 U. S. 300; Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220
U. S. 61. The power of a state to protect correlative rights hardly
can be,:regarded as furnishing a less solid basis for control of production than the power to prevent waste. See note 29 and text
inf ra.

REPUBLIC GAS CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
62

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

effective administrative action until one or perhaps all
of the alternatives in turn are tried out first in election
and then in review. A decision now would settle every
substantial pending phase of the controversy. At the
most but a minor consequential and separable aspect
would remain for remotely possible further action in the
state tribunals. It is to the interest of both parties, and
the state authorities as well, that their rights be determined and the controversy be ended. And on the facts
the question of jurisdiction is closely related to the
merits.
In view of all these considerations, to deny the parties
our judgment now is to make a fetish of technical finality
without securing any of the substantial advantages for
constitutional adjudication which § 237, in the light of
its underlying policies, was designed to attain. Instead
that section becomes an instrument of sheer delay for the
performance of our function, for executing those of state
agencies, and for settling parties' rights. The section has
no such office. By declaring now that the state may follow either of two clearly permissible courses and allow
those with whom it deals to choose between them, we
would not speak hypothetically or prematurely or violate
any other policy underlying § 237.
II.
Beyond the matter of jurisdiction, there is in this case
no such question concerning its exercise as arose in Rescue Army v. Municipal Court, 331 U. S. 549: The constitutional issues are not speculative, premature or presented abstractly en masse. The "alternative character"
of the state judgment does not prevent the federal questions from being sufficiently precise and concrete for'
purposes of decision here, although various ambiguities
have been suggested.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

334 U. S.

Thus it is said that we cannot tell whether the order
compels Republic to share its market or merely requires
it to carry gas to a market which Peerless must obtain for
itself. Cf. Thompson v. Consolidated Gas Co., 300 U. S.
55. The order here is not subject to such an ambiguity.
It in terms commands Republic to take Peerless gas and
to pay for it.'
It is also suggested that we cannot tell whether Republic will have to purchase gas from Peerless or just
transport the gas to market and account for the profits.
But whether legal title passes at one end of the Republic
line or at the other is, as we have noted, wholly immaterial
as a matter of constitutional law. Cf. The Pipe Line
Cases, 234 U. S. 548. In either event under the order and
judgment Republic must take Peerless gas into its system, must pay for it and, unless its market should expand
suddenly far beyond present expectations, must therefore share its market with Peerless.
It is said further that we cannot be sure whether the
commission intends to make Republic act as a common
carrier. The only basis for this doubt is the fact that
the commission's findings state that Republic is a common carrier and common purchaser. But the state supreme court upheld the order on the assumption that
those findings were incorrect. The justification for re20

In its report the commission concluded that Republic should

be required to ". .

allow the Peerless gas to enter the Republic

pipeline, and pay the Peerless Company for the gas." The order
itself in unqualified terms directs Republic "to take gas ratably from
[Peerless] ... as soon as applicant lays a line connecting said well
with respondent's line . . . ." See notes 6, 7.

Since neither the commission's report nor the state supreme
court's opinion suggests that the command was qualified by the
condition that Peerless obtain its own market, -we need not read
such a condition into the order. The commission report states that
"Republic offers to transport the Peerless gas if market can be obtained by [Peerless] ..

.

REPUBLIC GAS CO. y. OKLAHOMA.
62

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

quiring Republic to carry Peerless gas is based primarily
on the fact of drainage caused by Republic's production.
III.
It has been noted previously that the question on the
merits is not unrelated to the issue of finality. To it,
accordingly, attention is now directed. The real fight,
as has been stated, is over the right of Republic to drain
away the Peerless gas without paying for it. The question as cast in legal terms is whether the due process and
equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment
deny Oklahoina the power to give one private producer
from a common pool the option to shut down production
altogether or to purchase gas from another for the purpose
of adjusting their correlative rights, in the pool, when
that is the only practical or feasible alternative consistent
with production by both to protect the latter from drainage by the former.
Republic denies the state's power to do this. Its basic
position is that it has a federal constitutional right to
drain off all the gas in the field, unless other owners of
producing rights can supply their own facilities for marketing their production, regardless of varying conditions
in different competitive situations and regardless of all
consequent practical considerations affecting feasibility
of furnishing such facilities.
Republic has no such right. The Constitution did not
impress upon the states in a rigid mold either the commonlaw feudal system of land tenures or any of the modified
and variant forms of tenure prevailing in the states in
1789. Rather it left them free to devise and establish
their own systems of property law adapted to their varying local conditions and to the peculiar needs and desires
of their inhabitants. The original constitution placed
no explicit limitation upon the powers of the states in
79288 0--4---11

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

334 U. S.

this respect.' Not until the Fourteenth Amendment was
ratified, nearly eight decades later, was one introduced.
The Fourteenth Amendment was not designed to nullify
state power to create institutions of property in accord
with local needs and policies. Whether or not it was
intended to secure substantive individual rights as well
as procedural ones," it was not a strait jacket immobilizing state power to change or alter institutions of property
in the public interest." Almost innumerable decisions
have demonstrated this, even though the Amendment has
been effective to create substantial limitations upon the
methods by which the changes deemed necessary may
be made.
The-basic question here is really one of substantive due
process. It relates primarily to whether Oklahoma can
curtail the unqualified right of capture which appellant
conceives it acquired by virtue of and as an unalterable
incident to its acquisition of surface rights including
the right to drill for gas. For, in denying that the state
The nearest approximations perhaps were in the prohibitions
against state legislation impairing the obligation of contracts and
against ex post facto legislation before the latter was limited to criminal and penal consequences. Calder v. Bull, 3 Dall. 386. See Hale,
The Supreme Court and the Contract Clause, 57 Harv. L. Rev. 512,
621,852.
22See MR. JUSTICE. BLACK dissenting in McCart v. Indianapolis
Water Co., 302 U. S. 419, 423; Boudin, Truth and Fiction about the
Fourteenth Amendment, 16 N. Y. U. L. Q. Rev. 19.
It is precisely in cases where the Amendment has been made thus
effective, often by giving expansive scope to the idea of "property,"
that its interpretations *have failed to withstand the test of time.
Compare Ribnik v. McBride, 277 U. S. 350, with Olsen v. Nebraska,
313 U. S. 236; Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 161, and Coppage v.
Kansas, 236 U. S. 1, with Phelps Dodge Corp. v. Labor Board, 313
U. 8. 177, 187; Lochner v. New York, 1q8 U. S. 45, and Adkins v.
Children's Hospital, 261 U. S. 525, with West Coast Hotel Co. v.
Parrish,300 U. S. 379.
21

REPUBLIC GAS CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
62

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

can enforce the only feasible method of limitation consistent with production by Peerless, Republic in effect is saying that the state cannot restrict its right to take all gas
in the common reservoir, including all that can be drained
from beneath Peerless' lease and the lands of other owners
similarly situated. This is, for the particular circumstances, a denial of the state's power to protect correlative
rights in the field or to regulate appellant's taking in the
interest of others having equal rights proportionate to
their surface holdings. For, though Republic concedes it
is bound by Oklahoma's statutory requirement of pro rata
production, that requirement becomes merely a time factor affecting the rate and length of the period of Republic's
drainage, not the total quantity eventually to be taken,
if Republic can defy the commission's order and thus
leave Peerless in its present helpless condition.
The contention is bold and far reaching, more especially
when account is taken of the nature of the industry.
Natural gas in place is volatile and fugitive, once a single
outlet is. opened. When extracted it cannot be stored in
quantity, but must be marketed ultimately at burner tips
in the time necessary for conveyance to them from the well
mouth. The competitive struggle for the ihdustry's rewards is particularly intense in the initial stage of developing a field. By the industry's very nature large outlays
of capital, are required for successful continuing production and marketing. All those factors however tend
toward monopoly once success has been achieved in a
particular field.
These peculiar qualities, moreover, have been reflected
in the legal rights relating to the ownership of gas in
place, as well as its extraction. They have been adapted
to its nature and to that of the competitive struggle regarding it. Only a specialist in this branch of the law,
which varies from state to state, can undertake to say

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE, J.,

dissenting.

334U. S.

with any reliable degree of precision what rights may be
in particular situations. These difficulties, intensified by
the competitive struggle for the product and the inadequacy of common-law ideas to control it, have forced both
the states and the federal government to adopt extensive
regulatory measures in recent years. This has been necessary both to conserve the public interest in this rapidly.
depleting natural resource 24 and to secure fair adjustment
of private rights in the industry. Rather than being a
sacred, untouchable enclave of the common law, the field
by its very nature lends itself especially to governmental
intervention for such purposes. In this respect it is
hardly comparable to situations comprehending only conventional manufacturers and merchants of consumable
goods.
In accordance with Oklahoma's law, appellant does not
assert title to the gas in place. It asserts only the right
to capture what it can produce. But that right, unqualified, would include the right to take gas from beneath
others' lands. So taken, it defies their rights to a proportionate share and the state's power to secure them,
if for reasons rendering marketing through their own
facilities unfeasible they cannot join in the unrestrained
competitive draining.
So far as the federal Constitution is concerned, there
is no such unrestricted fee simple in the right to drain
gas from beneath an adjacent owner's land. It is far too
late, if it ever was otherwise, to urge that the states are
impotent to restrict this unfettered race or to put it upon
terms of proportionate- equality by whatever measures
may be reasonably necessary to that end. Indeed our
constitutional history is replete with instances where the
states have altered and restricted schemes of property
2 Cf..Power Comm'n v. Hope Gas Co., 320 U. S. 591, dissenting

opinion of MR.

JUSTICE JACKSON

at 628.

REPUBLIC GAS CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
62

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

rights in response to the public interest and the states'
local needs. In some cases this has gone to the extent
of abolishing basic common-law conceptions entirely and
substituting new ones indigenous to their areas and the
problems they present. Perhaps the most extensive and
obvious illustrations are to be found in the systems developed in our arid and mountainous western states for
governing rights in the waters of flowing streams and
mining rights in respect to precious metals.'
Others are
not lacking."6
It hardly can be maintained that the creation and control of rights respecting the ownership, extraction and
marketing of natural gas are less broadly subject to state
control than those relating to waters for irrigation and
other uses or to the extraction of precious metals in the
regions where those matters have called into play the
states' authority to act in the manner best suited to local
conditions and the needs of their inhabitants. The similarities of the situations and the problems, for purposes
of constitutionality in the exercise of those powers, are so
obvious they do not need to be specified.
Historically, the states' freedom to exercise broad powers in defining and regulating rights of ownership and
production of natural gas has been recognized almost as
long and quite as completely as their similar freedoms
to act in relation to water rights and mining rights. In
See Clark v. Nash, 198 U. S. 361; Fallbrook IrrigationDistrict v.
Bradley, 164 U. S. 112; Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46, 93-94;
United States v. Rio Grande Dam & Irrigation Co., 174 U. S. 690,
702-703; Strickley v. Highland Boy Gold Mining Co., 200 U. S. 527;
Parley's Park Silver Mining Co. v. Kerr, 130 U. S. 256; Butte City
Water Co. v. Baker, 196 U. S. 119; Kendall v. San Juan Silver Mining
Co., 144 U. S. 658; Clason v. Matko, 223 U. S. 646.
26 Head v. Amoskeag Mfg. Co., 113 U. S. 6; Wurts v. Hoagland,
114 U. S. 606; Bacon v. Walker, 204 U. S. 311; cf. Ferry v. Spokane,
P. & S. R. Co., 258 U. S. 314; Campbell v. California,200 U. S. 87.
25

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

334 U. S.

a line of cases beginning a half century ago with Ohio
Oil Co. v. Indiana, 177 U. S. 190, this Court has upheld
various types of state regulatory schemes designed to prevent waste and to protect the "coequal rights" of the
several owners of a common source of supply27

These

cases clearly recognize that the state regulation may be
justified on alternative grounds, either to prevent waste
or to adjust private correlative rights.'
It is true, as appellant points out, that none of those
cases presented the specific issue of whether the state
may adjust correlative rights independently of a conservation program. But it is not true that this power is

merely incidental to the fundamental right of the state
to preserve its natural resources. In fact, if one power
were incidental to the other, the Ohio Oil case would
support the view that waste prevention is justifiable because it serves "the purpose of protecting all the collective
owners . . . ." 177 U. S. at 210.21 Moreover, it is significant that the opinion in Bandini Petroleum Co. v.

Superior Court specifically states that the California regOhio Oil Co. v. Indiana, 177 U. S. 190; Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61; Walls v. Midland Carbon Co., 254 U. S.
300; Bandini Petroleum Co. v. Superior Court, 284 U. S. 8; Chainplin Refining Co. v. Corporation Commission, 286 U. S. 210; Hunter
Co. v. McHugh, 320 U. S. 222.
2
See Hardwicke, The Rule of.Capture, 13 Tex. L. Rev. 391, 414422; Marshall and Meyers, Legat Planning of Petroleum Production,
41 Yale L. J. 33, 48-52; Ely, The'Aonservation of Oil; 51 Harv. L.
Rev. 1209, 1222-1225; Ford, Controlling the Production of Oil, 30
Mich. L. Rev. 1170, 1181,1192.
29Independently of any statute, several states have grantedequitable'relief against waste in order to protect the correlative rights of
common owners of a reservoir of gas or oil. - Louisville Gas Co. v.
Kentucky Heating Co., 117 Ky. 71; Manufacturers Gas and Oil Co.
\v. Indiana Natural Gas aad Oil Co., 155 Ind. 461, 474-475; Ross v.
Damm, 278 Mich. 388; Higgins Oil & Fuel Co. v. Guaranty Oil Co.,
145 La. 233; Atkinson v. Virginia Oil & Gas Co., 72 W. Va. 707.
27

REPUBLIC GAS CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
62

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

ulation is valid on its face, even if viewed as a measure
designed purely for the protection of correlative rights.
284 U. S. 8, 22.Oklahoma's power to regulate correlative rights in the
Hugoton field therefore does not stem from her interest
merely in the preservation of natural resources. It stems
rather from the basic aim and authority of any government which seeks to protect the rights of its citizens and
to secure a just accommodation of them when they clash."
That authority is constantly exercised in our system in
relation to other types of property.32 In view of this
30 The Supreme Court of Texas has recently upheld administrative
action designed solely to protect correlative rights. Corzelius v.
Harrell, 143 Tex. 509. Note, 24 Tex. L. Rev. 97.
81Oklahoma can prevent agents of Republic from going on Peerless' land by force of arms and there drilling a well and stealing gas.
The state's power to prevent larceny and trespass and to enjoin
any use of property that creates a nuisance for a neighboring property
owner also justifies the regulation of common property for the mutual
advantage of its several owners. Head v. Amoskeag Mfg. Co., 113
U. S.9; Bacon v. Walker, 204 U. S. 311.
Under certain circumstances a state may compel one individual
to surrender private property solely to enable another to exploit
the potential resources of his private property. Thus in Clark v.
Nash, 198 U. S. 361, the plaintiff's land could be made productive
only by enlarging an irrigation ditch across defendant's land, and in
Strickley v. Highland Boy Gold Mining Company, 200 U. S. 527,
the mining company could deliver its ore to market only by constructing an aerial bucket line across defendant's land. Here Peerless can
exploit its property only if Republic is compelled to take its gas to
market. Moreover, until Peerless is able to produce the gas under
its land, this gas will continue to be withdrawn by Republic. In
effect Republic is now exploiting Peerless' property.
32

E. g., Head v. Amoskeag Mfg. Co., 113 U. S. 9; Wurts v. Hoag-

land, 114 U. S. 606; Fallbrook Irrigation District v. Bradley, 164
U. S. 112; Bacon v. 'Walker, 204 U. S. 311; Plymouth Coal Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 531; Jackman v. Rosenbaum Co., 260 U. S.
22.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

334 U. S.

fact and of what has been said concerning conditions
in this industry, it would be incongruous for us to hold
that oil and gas law is the one phase of property law
that cannot be modified except for conservation purposes.
Especially in the light of its origin and development
in a laissez faire atmosphere appropriate for fostering intense competitive .expansions, see Merrill, The Evolution
of Oil and Gas Law, 13 Miss. L. J. 281, the states should be
allowed certainly not less freedom to evolve new property
rules to keep pace with changing industrial conditions
than they possess in nearly every other branch of the law.'
Here as elsewhere, in considering the proper scope for
state experimentation, it is important that we indulge
every reasonable presumption in favor of the states' action. They should be free to improve their regulatory
techniques as scientific knowledge advances, for here too
experimentation is the lifeblood of progress. See Mr.
Justice Brandeisfdissenting in New State Ice Co. v. Liebmann, 285 U.S. 262, 280.
IV.
The remaining narrow issue is whether the most practical method of achieving a fair accommodation of the
3 "It is submitted that through the judicial and legislative processes
correlative. right-duty relations against injury and non-compensated
and preventable drainage do exist, but the difficulty of finding and
proving the facts in a particular situation is such that the usual remedies of damages and injunction might not be practicable. It seems
more advisable that legislatures enact statutes expressly declaring the
existence of these correlative- right-duty relations in landoWners,
apart from public rights against waste, and authorize an administrative agency, after a finding of facts, to promulgate rules and. regulations for their protection and authorize the Commission or private
owners to enforce such rules and regulations through actions in the
courts." Summers, Legal Rights against Drainage of Oil and Gas,
18 Tex. L. Rev. 27, 47.

REPUBLIC GAS CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
62

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting;

correlative rights of the parties is invalid because Republic is required to take and to pay for gas that it does not
want-at least does not want if it must pay for it.
Appellant relies heavily on Thompson v. Consolidated
Gas Co., 300 U. S. 55, where this Court invalidated an
order limiting respondent's production so severely that it
would have had to purchase gas from unconnected wells
in its vicinity in order to satisfy its commitments. Thus
the necessary effect of that order was comparable to the
effect of the order under review here.
But there is a crucial difference between the cases. In
deciding the Thompson case the Court explicitly assumed
that the order could be upheld if reasonably designed
either to prevent waste or "to prevent undue drainage
of gas from the reserves of well owners lacking pipe line
connections." , Because of a geological anomaly there
was a general drainage in the gas field away from the
connected wells toward the unconnected wells, 300 U. S.
at 71-73., so that the producing wells, rather than draining
gas away from the dormant wells, would only reduce
their own loss by producing as much as possible. Therefore the limitation on their production could not be
justified, since it was neither for the purpose of preventing
waste nor a reasonable regulation of correlative rights.
Instead of protecting one party from loss, it operated
to aggravate the effect of the drainage away from the
owners of connected wells. They suffered, not only by an
increased drainage loss, but also by the consequence that
they were forced to share their facilities and market with
the very parties who profited by their loss. The Court
held that such an order requiring one company to share
its market with another was unconstitutional inasmuch
34 300 U. S. at 76-77. This assumption is repeated several times
in the opinion. See 300 U. S. at 58, 67, 69 and 72-73.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting

334 U. S.

as it was not justified either as a conservation measure
or as a reasonable adjustment of correlative rights. The
latter justification is present in this case.
The fact that Republic is compelled either to purchase
Peerless' gas or to carry it to market and account for
the profits does not make the regulation unreasonable.
If that were the sole cause for complaint, the state could
take the more drastic step of requiring all the well owners
to shut down completely until all were able to produce
on a ratable basis or came to some agreement effective
to make this possible. It is clearly within the state's
power to require Republic to compensate Peerless for the
gas drained from under the Peerless land. Pattersonv.
Stanolind Co., 305 U. S. 376. Here, instead of requiring
Republic to make a cash payment based on the estimated
amount of drainage, the commission has selected what is
unquestionably a more accurate method of adjusting the
correlative rights. Even if it could be assumed that this
method imposed a somewhat heavier burden on Republic
than possible alternatives, it does not follow that the
method selected by the commission is unconstitutional.
For we have constantly recognized the propriety of allowing wide discretion to the administrative agencies who
are best qualified to select the most reasonable solutions
to the thorny problems that accompany regulation in this
highly technical field. Railroad Commission v. Rowan &
Nichols Oil Co., 310 U. S. 573. Keeping in mind the fact
that property law is peculiarly a matter of local concern,
the special difficulty of defining and regulating property
rights in natural gas, the respect due to experts in this
field, and the rather unusual facts this record presents,
I cannot say that the state is without power to enter this
order.
It is suggested that the order, since it includes the requirement of purchase and not merely of transportation

REPUBLIC GAS CO. v. OKLAHOMA.,
62

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

and accounting for profits, becomes invalid because it
shifts from Peerless to Republic the business risk incident
to ownership and sale of the gas. Possibly this might
furnish a more serious basis for objection in materially
different circumstances. But, apart from what has already been said, in those now presented I conceive no
substantially greater harm to be possible, from the order's
operation, than depriving Republic of the right to drain
gas from beneath Peerless' lease without liability to pay
for the gas so drained.
This assumes that if the parties should be unable to
agree upon terms the commission will fix them in a manner
taking due account of prevailing market conditions relevant to the price to be paid, as well as reasonable compensation for the use of Republic's facilities. With those
limitations properly applied, it is hard to see what great
business- risk will be shifted to Republic. For, as we
have already noted, the commodity is one not subject
to storage, must be sold as soon as it is transported to
the point of consumption, and therefore cannot be subject
to possible wide fluctuation in selling price between the
times of purchase and sale by Republic.
The facts here, it seems to me, justify the commission's
action. Whether others materially different may do so
should be left to be considered when they arise.
I would affirm the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Oklahoma.

