CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
SHELLEY
NO. 72.

ET UX.

v.

KRAEMER

ET UX.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.*

Argued January 15-16, 1948.-Decided May 3, 1948.
Private agreements to exclude persons of designated race or color

from the use or occupancy of real estate for residential purposes
do not violate the Fourteenth Amendment; but it is violative of
the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment for
state courts to enforce them. Corrigan v. Buckley, 271 U. S. 323,
distinguished. Pp. 8-23.
(a) Such private agreements standing alone do not violate any
rights guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 12-13.
(b) The actions of state courts and judicial officers in their
official capacities are actions of the states within the meaning of
the Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 14-18.
(c) In granting judicial enforcement of such private agreements
in these cases, the states acted to deny petitioners the equal protection of the laws, contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment. Pp.
18-23.
(d) The fact that state courts stand ready to enforce restrictive covenants excluding white persons from the ownership or
occupancy of property covered by them does not prevent the
enforcement of covenants excluding colored persons from constituting a denial of equal protection of the laws, since the rights
created by § 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment are guaranteed to the
individual. Pp. 21-22.
*Together with No. 87, McGhee et ux. v. Sipes et al., on certiorari
to the Supreme Court of Michigan.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Counsel for Parties.

334 U. S.

(e) Denial of access to the courts to enforce such restrictive
covenants does not deny equal protection of the laws to the parties
to such agreements. P. 22.
355 Mo. 814, 198 S. W. 2d 679, and 316 Mich. 614, 25 N. W. 2d 638,
reversed.

No. 72. The Supreme Court of Missouri reversed a
judgment of a state trial court denying enforcement of
a private agreement restricting the use or occupancy of
certain real estate to persons of the Caucasian race. 355
Mo. 814,198 S. W. 2d 679. This Court granted certiorari.
331 U. S. 803. Reversed, p. 23.
No. 87. The Supreme Court of Michigan affirmed a
judgment of a state trial court enjoining violation of a
private agreement restricting the use or occupancy of
certain real estate to persons of the Caucasian race. 316
Mich. 614, 25 N. W. 2d 638. This Court granted certiorari. 331 U. S. 804. Reversed, p. 23.
George L. Vaughn and Herman Willer argued the cause
and filed a brief for petitioners in No. 72. Earl Susman
was also of counsel.
Thurgood Marshall and Loren Miller argued the cause
for petitioners in No. 87. With them on the brief were
Willis M. Graves, Francis Dent, William H. Hastie,
Charles H. Houston, George M. Johnson, William R.
Ming, Jr., James Nabrit, Jr., Marian Wynn Perry,Spottswood W. Robinson, III, Andrew Weinberger and Ruth
Weyand.
By special leave of Court, Solicitor General Perlman
argued the cause for the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting petitioners. With him on the brief was Attorney General Clark.

SHELLEY v. KRAEMER.
1

Counsel for Parties.

Gerald L. Seegers argued the cause for respondents in
No. 72. With him on the brief was Walter H. Pollmann.
Benjamin F. York was also of counsel.
Henry Gilligan and James A. Crooks argued the cause
and filed a brief for respondents in No. 87. Lloyd T.
Chockley was'also of counsel.
Briefs of amici curiae supporting petitioners were filed
by Perry W. Howard for the Civil Liberties Department,
Grand Lodge of Elks, I. B. P. 0. E. W.; Isaac Pacht,
Irving Hill and Clore Warne; Robert McC. Marsh and
Eugene Blanc, Jr. for the Protestant Council of New York
City; Herbert S. Thatcher and Robert A. Wilson for the
American Federation of Labor; Julius L. Goldstein for
the Non-Sectarian Anti-Nazi League to Champion Human
Rights, Inc.; Melville J. France for the General Council
of Congregational Christian Churches et al.; Robert W.
Kenny, 0. John Rogge and Mozart G. Ratner for the National Lawyers Guild; Lee Pressman, Eugene Cotton,
Frank Donner, John J. Abt, Leon M. Despres, M. H.
Goldstein, Isadore Katz, David Rein, Samuel L. Rothbard, Harry Sacher, William Standard and Lindsay P.
Walden for the Congress of Industrial Organizations et
al.; Phineas Indritz, Irving R. M. Panzer and Richard A.
Solomon for the American Veterans Committee; William
Maslow, Shad Polier, Joseph B. Robison, Byron S.
Miller and William Strong for the American Jewish Congress; Joseph M. Proskauer and Jacob Grumet for the
American Jewish Committee et al.; William Strong for
the American Indian Citizens League of California, Inc.;
Francis M. Dent, Walter M. Nelson) Eugene H. Buder,
Victor B. Harris,Luther Ely Smith and Harold I. Kahen
for the American'Civil Liberties Union; Earl B. Dickerson, Richard E. Westbrooks and Loring B. Moore for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

National Bar Association; Alger Hiss, Joseph M. Proskauer and Victor Elting for the American Association for
the United Nations; and Edward C. Park and Frank B.
Frederick for the American Unitarian Association.
Briefs of amici curiae supporting respondents were filed
by Roger J. Whiteford and John J. Wilson for the National
Association of Real Estate Boards; Ray C. Eberhardand
Elisabeth Eberhard Zeigler for the Arlington Heights
Property Owners Association 'et al.; and Thomas F. Cadwalader and Carlyle Barton for the Mount Royal Protective Association, Inc.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE VINSON

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
These cases present for our ronsideration questions relating to the validity of court enforcement of private
agreements, generally described as restrictive covenants,
which have as their purpose the exclusion of persons of
designated race or color from the owncrship or occupancy
of real property. Basic constitutional issues of obvious
importance have been raised.
The first of these cases comes to this Court on certiorari
to the Supreme Court of Missouri. On February 16,
1911, thirty out of a total of thirty-nine owners of property fronting both sides of Labadie Avenue between
Taylor Avenue and Cora Avenue in the city of St. Louis,
signed an agreement, which was subsequently recorded,
providing in part:
"... theL said property is hereby restricted to the
use and occupancy for the term of Fifty (50) years
from this date, so that it shall be a condition all the
time and whether recited and referred to as [sic]
not in subsequent conveyances and shall attach to
the land as a condition precedent to the sale of the
same, that hereafter no part of said property or any

SHELLEY v. KRAEMER.
Opinion of the Court.

portion thereof shall be, for said term of Fifty-years,
occupied by any person not of the Caucasian race,
it being intended hereby to restrict the use of said
property for said period of time against the occupancy as owners or tenants of any portion of said
property for resident or other purpose by people of
the Negro or Mongolian Race."
The entire district described in the agreement included
fifty-seven parcels of land. The thirty owners who signed
the agreement held title to forty-seven parcels, including
the particular parcel involved in this case. At the time
the agreement was signed, five of the parcels in the district were owned by Negroes. One of those had been
occupied by Negro families since 1882, nearly thirty years
before the restrictive agreement was executed. The trial
court found that owners of seven out of nine homes on
the south side of Labadie Avenue, within the restricted
district and "in the immediate vicinity" of the premises
in question, had failed to sign the restrictive agreemetit
in 1911. At the time this action was brought, four of
.the premises were occupied by Negroes, and had been so
occupied for periods ranging from twenty-three to sixtythree years. A fifth parcel had been occupied by Negroes
until a year before this suit was instituted.
On August 11, 1945, pursuant to a contract of sale,
petitioners Shelley, who are Negroes, for valuable consideration received from one Fitzgerald a warranty deed
to the parcel in question.' The trial court found that
petitioners had no actual knowledge of the restrictive
agreement at the time of the purchase.
The trial court found that title to the property which petitioners
Shelley sought to purchase was held by one Bishop, a real estate
dealor, who placed the property in the name of Josephine Fitzgerald.
Bishop, who acted as agent for petitioners in the purchase, concealed
the fact of his ownership.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

On October 9, 1945, respondents, as owners of other
property subject to the terms of the restrictive covenant,
brought suit in the Circuit Court of the city of St. Louis
praying that petitioners Shelley be restrained from taking possession of the property and that judgment be entered divesting title out of petitioners Shelley and revesting title in the immediate grantor or in such other person
as the court should direct. The trial court denied the
requested relief on the ground that the restrictive agreement, upon which respondents based their action, had
never become final and complete because it was the intention of the parties to that agreement that it was not to
become effective until signed by all property owners in
the district, and signatures of all the owners had never
been obtained.
The Supreme Court of Missouri sitting en banc reversed
and directed the trial court to grant the relief for which
respondents had prayed. That court held the agreement
effective and concluded that enforcement of its provisions
violated no rights guaranteed to petitioners by the Federal Constitution.' At the time the court rendered its
decision, petitioners were occupying the property in
question.
The second of the cases under consideration comes to
this Court from the Supreme Court of Michigan. The
circu*mstances presented do not differ materially from the
Missouri case. In June, 1934, one Ferguson and his wife,
who then owned the property located in the city of Detroit which is involved in this case, executed a contract
providing in part:
"This property shall not bo used or occupied by
any person or persons except those of the Caucasian
race.
2

Kraemer v. Shelley, 355 Mo. 814, 198 S. W. 2d 679 (1946).

SHELLEY v. KRAEMER.

7

Opinion of the Court.

"It is further agreed that this restriction shall not
be effective unless at least eighty percent of the property fronting on both sides of the street in the block
where our land is located is subjected tc this or a
similar restriction."
The agreement provided that the restrictions were to
remain in effect until January 1, 1960. The contract was
subsequently recorded; and similar agreements were executed with respect to eighty percent of the lots in the
block in which the property in question is situated.
By deed dated November 30, 1944, petitioners, who
were found by the trial court to be Negroes, acquired title
to the property and thereupon entered into its occupancy.
On January 30, 1945, respondents, as owners of property
subject to the terms of the restrictive agreement, brought
suit against petitioners in the Circuit Court of Wayne
County. After a hearing, the court entered a decree
directing petitioners to move from the property within
ninety days. Petitioners were further enjoined and restrained from using or occupying the premises in the
future. On appeal, the Supreme Court of Michigan affirmed, deciding adversely to petitioners' contentions that
they had been denied rights protected by the Fourteenth
Amendment.'
Petitioners have placed primary reliance on their contentions, first raised in the state courts, that judicial enforcement of the restrictive agreements in these cases has
violated rights guaranteed to petitioners by the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution and Acts
of Congress passed pursuant to that Amendment.4 Spe3

Sipes v. McGhee, 316 Mich. 614, 25 N. W. 2d 638 (1947).
4The first section of the Fourteenth Amendment provides: "All
persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the
jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

cifically, petitioners urge that they have been denied the
equal protection of the laws, deprived of property without
due process of law, and have been denied privileges and
immunities of citizens of the United States. We pass to
a consideration of those issues.
I.
Whether the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment inhibits judicial enforcement by state courts
of restrictive covenants based on race or color is a question
which this Court has not heretofore been called upon to
consider. Only two cases have been decided by this
Court which in any way have involved the enforcement of
such agreements. The first of these was the case of
Corriganv. Buckley, 271 U. S. 323 (1926). There, suit
was brought in the courts of the District of Columbia to
enjoin a threatened violation of certain restrictive covenants relating to lands situated in the city of Washington. Relief was granted, and the case was brought here
on appeal. It is apparent that that case, which had
originated in the federal courts and involved the enforcement of covenants on land located in the District of
Columbia, could present no issues under the Fourteenth
Amendment; for that Amendment by its terms applies
only to the States. Nor was the question of the validity
of court enforcement of the restrictive covenants under
the Fifth Amendment properly before the Court, as the
opinion of this Court specifically recognizes.' The only
constitutional issue which the appellants had raised in
the lower courts, and hence the only constitutional issue
State wherein they reside. No State shall make or enforce any law
which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the
United States; nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty,
or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person

within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws."
5Corrigan v. Buckley, 271 U. S.323, 330-331 (1926).

SHELLEY v. KRAEMER.
I

Opinion of the Court.

before this Court on appeal, was the validity of the covenant agreements as such. This Court concluded that
since the inhibitions of the constitutional provisions invoked apply only to governmental action, as contrasted
to action of private individuals, there was no showing that
the covenants, which were simply agreements between
private property owners, were invalid. Accordingly, the
appeal was dismissed for want of a substantial question.
Nothing in the opinion of this Court, therefore, may properly be regarded as an adjudication on the merits of the
constitutional issues presented by these cases, which raise
the question of the validity, not of the private agreements as such, but of the judicial enforcement of those
agreements.
The second of the cases involving racial restrictive
covenants was Hansberry v. Lee, 311 U. S. 32 (1940).
In that case,' petitioners, white property owners, were
enjoined by the state courts from violating the terms
of a restrictive agreement. The state Supreme Court had
held petitioners bound by an earlier judicial determination, in litigation in which petitioners were not parties,
upholding the validity of the restrictive agreement, although, in fact, the agreement had not been signed by
the number of owners necessary to make it effective under
state law. This Court reversed the judgment of the state
Supreme Court upon the ground that petitioners had
been denied due process of law in being held estopped
to challenge the validity of the agreement on the theory,
accepted by the state court, that the earlier litigation,
in which petitioners did not participate, was in the nature
of a class suit. In arriving at its result, this Court did
not reach the issues presented by the cases now under
consideration.
It is well, at the outset, to scrutinize the terms of the
restrictive agreements involved in these cases. In the
Missouri case, the covenant declares that no part of the
79258

0-48-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

affected property shall be "occupied by any person not
of the Caucasian race, it being intended hereby to restrict
the use of said property . . . against the occupancy as
owners or tenants of any portion of said property for
resident or other purpose by people of the Negro or Mongolian Race." Not only does the restriction seek to proscribe use and occupancy of the affected properties by
members of the excluded class, but as construed by the
Missouri courts, the agreement requires that title of any
person who uses his property in violation of the restriction
shall be divested. The restriction of the covenant in the
Michigan case seeks to bar occupancy by persons of the
excluded class. It provides that "This property shall not
be used or occupied by any person or persons except those
of the Caucasian race."
It should be observed that these covenants do not
seek to proscribe any particular use of the affected properties. Use of the properties for residential occupancy,
as such, is not forbidden. -The restrictions of these agreements, rather, are directed toward a designated class of
persons and seek to determine who may and who may
not own or make use of the properties for residential
purposes. The excluded class is defined wholly in terms
of race or color; "simply that and nothing more." 6
It cannot be doubted that among the civil rights intended to be protected from discriminatory: state action
by the Fourteenth Amendment are the rights to acquire,
enjoy, own and dispose of property. Equality in the
enjoyment of property rights was regarded by the framers
of that Amendment as an essential pre-condition to
the realization of other basic civil rights and liberties
which the Amendment was intended to guarantee.' Thus,
8

Buchanan v. Warley, 245 U. S. 60,73 (1917).

7Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 70, 81 (1873).
The Adoption of the Fourteenth Amendnent.

See Flack,

SHELLEY v. KRAEMER.
1

Opinion of the Court.

§ 1978 of the Revised Statutes, derived from § 1 of the
Civil Rights Act of 1866 which was enacted by Congress
while the Fourteenth Amendment was also under consideration,8 provides:
"All citizens of the United States shall have the
same right, in every State and Territory, as is enjoyed by white citizens thereof to inherit, purchase,
lease, sell, hold, and convey real and personal property." I
This Court has given specific recognition to the same
principle. Buchanan v. Warley, 245 U. S.60 (1917).
It is likewise clear that restrictions on the right of
occupancy of the sort sought to lie created by the private
agreements in these cases could not be squared with the
requirements of the Fourteenth Amendment if imposed
by state statute or local ordinance. We do not understand respondents to urge the contrary. In the case of
Buchanan v. Warley, supra, a unanimous Court declared
unconstitutional the provisions of a city ordinance which
denied to colored persons the right to occupy houses in
blocks in which the greater number of houses were occupied by white persons, and imposed similar restrictions
on white persons with respect to blocks in which the
greater number of houses were occupied by colored persons. During the course of the opinion in that case,
this Court stated: "The Fourteenth Amendment and
these statutes enacted in furtherance of its purpose operate to qualify and entitle a colored man to acquire
8In Oyama v. California, 332 U. S. 633, 640 (1948) the section
of the Civil Rights Act herein considered is described as the federal
statute, "enacted before the Fourteenth Amendment but vindicated
by it." The Civil Rights Act of 1866 was reenacted in § 18 of the
Act of May 31, 1870, subsequent to the adoption of the Fourteenth
Amendment. 16 Stat. 144.
9 14 Stat. 27, 8 U. S. C. § 42.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

property without state legislation discriminating against
him solely because of color." 10
In Harmon v. Tyler, 273 U. S. 668 (1927), a unanimous
court, on the authority of Buchanan v. Warley, supra,
declared invalid an ordinance which forbade any Negro
to establish a home on any property in a white community
or any white person to establish a home in a Negro community, "except on the written consent of a majority of
the persons of the opposite race inhabiting such community or portion of'the City to be affected."
The precise question before this Court in both the
Buchanan and Harmon cases involved the rights of white
sellers to dispose of their properties free from restrictions
as to potential purchasers based on considerations of race
or color. But that such legislation is also offensive to
the rights of those desiring to acquire and occupy property
and barred on grounds of race or color is clear, not only
from the language of the opinion in Buchanan v. Warley,
supra, but from this Court's disposition of the case of
Richmond v. Deans, 281 U. S. 704 (1930). There, a
Negro, barred from the occupancy of certain property
by the terms of an ordinance similar to that in the
Buchanan case, sought injunctive relief in the federal
courts to enjoin the enforcement of the ordinance on
the grounds that its provisions violated the terms. of
the Fourteenth Amendment. Such relief was granted,
and this Court affirmed, finding the citation of Buchanan
v. Warley, supra, and Harmon v. Tyler, supra, sufficient
to support its judgment.'1
But the present cases, unlike those just discussed, do
not involve action by state legislatures or city councils.
10 Buchananv. Warley, 245 U. S. 60, 79 (1917).
" Courts of Georgia, Maryland, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Texas,
and Virginia have also declared similar statutes invalid as being
in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment. Glover v. Atlanta,

SHELLEY v. KRAEMER.
1

Opinion of the Court.

Here the particular patterns of discrimination and the
areal in which the restrictions are to operate, are determined, in the first instance, by the terms of agreements
among private individuals. Participation of the State
consists in the enforcement of the restrictions so defined.
The crucial issue with which we are here confronted is
whether this distinction removes these cases from the
operation of the prohibitory provisions of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
Since the decision of this Court in the Civil Rights
Cases, 109 U. S.3 (1883), the principle has become firmly
embedded in our constitutional law that the action inhibited by the first section of the Fourteenth Amendment
is only such action as may fairly be said to be that of the
States. That Amendment erects no shield against merely
private conduct, however discriminatory or wrongful.12
We conclude, therefore, that the restrictive agreements
standing alone cannot be regarded as violative of any
rights guaranteed to petitioners by the Fourteenth
Amendment. So long as the purposes of those agreements are effectuated by voluntary adherence to their
terms, it would appear clear that there has been no action
by the State and the provisions of the Amendment have
not been violated. Cf. Corriganv. Buckley, supra.
But here there was more. These are cases in which
the purposes of the agreements were secured only by
judicial enforcement by state courts of the restrictive
148 Ga. 285, 96 S. E. 562 (1918); Jackson v. State, 132 Md. 311,
103 A. 910 (1918); Clinard v. Winston-Salem, 217 N. C. 119, 6 S. E.
2d 867 (1940); Allen v. Oklahoma City, 175 Okla. 421, 52 P. 2d
1054 (1936); Liberty Annex Corp. v. Dallas, 289 S. W. 1067 (Tex.
Civ. App. 1927); Irvine v. Clifton Forge, 124 Va. 781, 97 S.E. 310
(1918).
12And see United States v. Ilarris, 106 U. S. 629 (1883);
United

States v. Cruikshank,92 U. S. 542 (1876).

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

terms of the agreements. The respondents urge that
judicial enforcement of private agreements does not
amount to state action; or, in any event, the participation
of the State is so attenuated in character as not to amount
to state action within the meaning of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Finally, it is suggested, even if the States
in these cases may be deemed to have acted in the constitutional sense, their action did not deprive petitioners
of rights guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment. We
move to a consideration of these matters.
II.
That the action of state courts and judicial officers
in their official capacities is to be regarded as action of
the State within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment, is a proposition which has long been established
by decisions of this Court. That principle was given expression in the earliest cases involving the construction
of the terms of the Fourteenth Amendment. Thus, in
Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. S. 313, 318 (1880), this Court
stated: "It is doubtless tr, - that a State may act through
different agencies,-either by its legislative, its executive,
or its judicial authorities; and the prohibitions of the
amendment extend to all action of the State denying
equal protection of the laws, whether it be action by one
of these agencies or by another." In Ex parte Virginia,
100 U. S. 339, 347 (1880), the Court observed: "A
State acts by its legislative, its executive, or its judicial
authorities. It can act in no other way." In the Civil
Rights Cases, 109 U. S. 3, 11, 17 (1883), this Court pointed
out that the Amendment makes void "State action of
every kind" which is inconsistent with the guaranties
therein contained, and extends to manifestations of "State
authority in the shape of laws, customs, or judicial or
executive proceedings." Language to like effect is em-

SHELLEY v. KRAEMER.
Opinion of the Court.

ployed no less than eighteen times during the course of
that opinion."3
Similar expressions, giving specific recognition to the
fact that judicial action is to be regarded as action of the
State for the purposes of theFourteenth Amendment, are
to be found in numerous cases which have been more
recently decided. In Twining v. Nyew Jersey, 211 U. S.
78, 90-91 (1908), the Court said: "The judicial act of the
highest court of the State, in authoritatively construing
and enforcing its laws, is the act of the State." In Brinkerhofi-Faris Trust & Savings Co. v. Hill, 281 U. S. 673,
680 .(1930), the Court, through Mr. Justice Brandeis,
stated: "The federal guaranty of due process extends to
state action through its judicial as well as through its
legislative, executive or administrative branch of government." Further examples of such declarations in the
opinions of this Court are not lacking.14
One of the earliest applications of the prohibitions contained in the Fourteenth Amendment to action of state
13 Among the phrases appearing in the opinion are the following:
"the operation of State laws, and the action of State officers executive
.or judicial"; "State laws and State proceedings"; "State law ...
or some State action through its officers or agents"; "State laws and
acts done under State authority"; "State laws, or State action of
some kind"; "such laws as the States may adopt or enforce"; "such
acts and proceedings as the States may commit or take"; "State
legislation or action"; "State law or State authority."
14
Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S.370, 397 (1881); Scott v. McNeal,
154 U. S. 34, 45 (1894); Chicago, Burlington and Quincy R. Co.
v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, 233-235 (1897); hovey v. Elliott, 167
U. S. 409, 417-418 (1897) ; Carterv. Texas, 177 U. S. 442, 447 (1900) ;
Martin v. Texas, 200 U. S. 316, 319 (1906); Raymond v. Chicago
Union Traction Co., 207 U. S.20, 35-36 (1907); Home Telephone
and Telegraph Co. v. Los Angeles, 227 U. S.278, 286-287 (1913);
PrudentialInsurance Co. v. Cheek, 259 U. S. 530, 548 (1922) ; American Railway Express Co. v. Kentucky, 273 U. S.269, 274 (1927);
Mooney v. Holohan, 294 U. S. 103, 112-113 (1935); Hansberry v.
Lee, 311 U. S.32, 41 (1940).

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

judicial officials occurred in cases in which Negroes had
been excluded from jury service in criminal prosecutions
by reason of their race or color. These cases demonstrate,
also, the early recognition by this Court that state action
in violation of the Amendment's provisions is equally
repugnant to the constitutional commands -whether directed by state statute or taken by a judicial official in the
absence of statute. Thus, in Strauder v. West Virginia,
100 U. S. 303 (1880), this Court declared invalid a state
statute restricting jury service to white persons ag
amounting to a denial of the equal protection of the
laws to the colored defendant in that case. In the same
volume of the reports, the Court in Ex parte Virginia,
supra, held that a similar discrimination imposed by the
action of a state judge denied rights protected by the
Amendment, despite the fact that the language of the
state statute relating to jury service contained no such
restrictions.
. The action of state courts in imposing penalties or depriving parties of other substantive rights without providing adequate notice and opportunity to defend, has,
of course, long been regarded as a denial of the due process
of law guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.
Brinkerhoff-FarisTrust & Savings Co. v. Hill, supra. Cf.
Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714 (1878).11

In numerous cases, this Court has reversed criminal
convictions in state courts for failure of those courts to
provide the essential ingredients of a fair hearing. Thus
it has been held that convictions obtained in state courts
under the domination of a mob are void. Moore v.
Dempsey, 261 U. S. 86 (1923). And see Frank v. Man;
gum., 237 U. S. 309 (1915). Convictions obtained by
15And see Standard Oil Co. v. Missouri, 224 U. S. 270, 281-282
(1912); Hansberry v. Lee, 311 U. S.32 (1940).

SHELLEY v. KRAEMER.
I

Opinion of the Court.

coerced confessions," by the use of perjured testimony
known by the prosecution to be such,17 or without the
effective assistance of counsel, 8 have also been held to be
exertions of state authority in conflict with the fundamental rights protected by the Fourteenth Amendment.
But the examples of state judicial action which have
been held by this Court to violate the Amendment's commands are not restricted to situations in which the judicial proceedings were found in some manner to be procedurally unfair. It has been recognized that the action
of state courts in enforcing a substantive common-law
rule formulated by those courts, may result in the denial
of rights guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment, even
though the judicial proceedings in such cases may have
been in complete accord with the most rigorous conceptions of procedural due process." Thus, ip American
Federation of Labor v. Swing, 312 U. S. 321 (1941), enforcement by state courts of the common-law policy of
the State, which resulted in the restraining of peaceful
picketing, was held to be state action of the sort prohibited by the Amendment's guaranties of freedom of
discussion.' In Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296
16 Brown v. Mississippi, 297 U. S. 278 (1936); Chambers v. Florida,
309 U. S. 227 (1940); Ashcraft v. Tennessee, 322 U. S. 143 (1944);
Lee v. MissisSippi, 332 U. S. 742 (1948).
IT See Mooney v. Holohan, 294 U. S. 103 (1935); Pyle v. Kansas,
317 U. S. 213 (1942).
18 Powell v. Alabama, 287 U. S. 45 (1932) ; Williams v. Kaiser, 323
U. S. 471 (1945); Tomkins v. Missouri, 323 U. S. 485 (1945);
De Meerleer v. Michigan, 329 U. S. 663 (1947).
19 In applying the rule of Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64
(1938), it is clear that the common-law rules enunciated by state
courts in judicial opinions are to be regarded as a part of the law
of the State.
20And see Bakery Drivers Local v. Wohl, 315 U. S. 769 (1942);
Cafeteria Employees Union v. Angelos, 320 U. S. 293 (1943).

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

(1940), a conviction in a state court of the common-law
crime of breach of the peace was, under the circumstances
of the case, found to be a violation of the Amendment's
commands relating to freedom of religion. In Bridges v.
California, 314 U. S. 252 (1941), enforcement of the
state's common-law rule relating to contempts by publication was held to be state action inconsistent with the
prohibitions of the Fourteenth Amendment.2 And cf.
Chicago, Burlington and Quincy R. Co. v. Chicago, 166
U. S.226 (1897).
The short of the matter is that from the time of the
adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment until the present,
it has been the consistent ruling of this Court that the action of the States to which the Amendment has reference
includes action of state courts and state judicial officials.
Although, in construing the terms of the Fourteenth
Amendment, differences have from time to time been expressed as to Whether particular types of state action may
be said to offend the Amendment's prohibitory provisions,
it has never been suggested that state court action is immunized from the operation of those provisions simply
because the act is that of the judicial branch of the state
government.
III:
Against this background of judicial construction, extending over a period of some three-quarters of a century,
we are called upon to consider whether enforcement bystate courts of the restrictive agreements in these cases
may be deemed to be the acts of those States; and, if
so, whether that action has denied these petitioners the
equal protection of the laws which the Amendment was
intended to insure.
21 And

see Pennekamp v. Flornda, 328 U. S. 331 (1946); Craig v.

Harney, 331 U. S. 367 (1947).

SHELLEY v. KRAEMER.
Opinion of the Court.

We have no doubt that there has been state action
in these cases in the full and complete sense of the phrase.
The undisputed facts disclose that petitioners were willing
purchasers of properties upon which they desired to establish homes. The owners of the properties were willing
sellers; and contracts of sale were accordingly consummated. It is clear that but for the active intervention
of the state courts, supported by the full panoply of state
pcwer, petitioners would have been free to occupy the
properties in question without restraint.
These are not cases, as has been suggested, in which
the States have merely abstained from action, leaving
private individuals free to impose such discriminations
as they see fit. Rather, these are cases in which the States
have made available to such individuals the full coercive
power of government to deny to petitioners, on the
grounds of race or color, the enjoyment of property rights
in premises which petitioners are willing and financially
able to acquire and which the grantors are willing to sell.
The difference between judicial enforcement and nonenforcement of the restrictive covenants is the difference
to petitioners between being denied rights of property
available to other members of the community and being
accorded full enjoyment of those rights on an equal
footing.
The enforcement of the restrictive agreements by the
state courts in these cases was directed pursuant to the
common-'law policy of the States as formulated by those
courts in earlier decisions.22 In the Missouri case, enforcement of the covenant was directed in the first instance by the highest court of the State after the trial
court had determined the agreement to be invalid for
22 See Swain v. Maxwell, 355 Mo. 448, 196 S. W. 2d 780 (1946);
Koehler v. Rowland, 275 Mo. 573, 205 S. W. 217 (1918). See also
Parmalee v. Morris, 218 Mich. 625, 188 N. W. 330 (1922). Cf.
Porterv. Barrett, 233 Mich. 373, 206 N. W. 532 (1925).

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

want of the requisite number of signatures. In the Michigan case, the order of enforcement by the trial court was
affirmed by the highest state court." The judicial action
in each case -bears the clear and unmistakable imprimatur
of the State. We have noted that previous decisions of
this Court have established the proposition that judicial
action is not immunized from the operation of the Fourteenth Amendment simply because it is taken pursuant
to the state's common-law policy. ' Nor is the Amendment ineffective simply because the particular pattern
of discrimination, which the State has enforced, was defined initially by the terms of a private agreement. State
action, as that phrase is understood for the purposes of
the Fourteenth Amendment, refers to exertions of state
power in all forms. And when the effect of that action
is to deny rights subject to the protection of the Fourteenth Amendment, it is the obligation of this Court to
enforce the constitutional commands.
We hold that in granting judicial enforcement of the
restrictive agreements in these cases, the States have
denied petitioners the equal protection of the laws and
that, therefore, the action of the state courts cannot stand.
We have noted that freedom from discrimination by the
States in the enjoyment of property rights was among
the basic objectives sought to be effectuated by the
framers of the Fourteenth Amendment. That such discrimination has occurred in these cases is clear. Because
of the race or color of these petitioners they have been
denied rights of ownership or occupancy enjoyed as a
matter of course by other citizens of different race or
2. Cf. Home Telephone and Telegraph Co. v. Los Angeles, 227
U. S. 278 (1913); Raymond v. Chicago Union Traction Co., 207
U. S.20 (1907).
24 Bridges v. California, 314 U. S. 252 (1941); American Federation
of Laborv. Swing, 312 U. S. 321 (1941).

SHELLEY v. KRAEMER.
Opinion of the Court.

color. 25 The Fourteenth Amendment declares "that all
persons, whether colored or white, shall stand equal before
the laws of the States, and, in regard to the colored race,
for whose protection the amendment was primarily designed, that no discrimination shall be made against them
by law because of their color." 26 Strauder v. West Virginia, supra at 307. Only recently this Court had occasion to declare that a state law which denied equal
enjoyment of property rights to a designated class of
citizens of specified race and ancestry, was not a legitimate
exercise of the state's police power but violated the guaranty of the equal protection of the laws. Oyama v. California, 332 U. S. 633 (1948). Nor may the discriminations imposed by the state courts in these cases be justified
as proper exertions of state police power." Cf. Buchanan
v. Warley, supra.
Respondents urge, however, that since the state courts
stand ready to enforce restrictive covenants excluding
white persons from the ownership or occupancy of property covered by such agreements, enforcement of covenants excluding colored persons may not be deemed a
denial of equal protection of the laws to the colored persons who are thereby affected. 8 This contention does
2 See Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356 (1886); Strauder v. West
Virginia, 100 U. S. 303 (1880); Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33,(1915).
26 Restrictive agreements of the sort involved in these cases have

been used to exclude other than Negroes from the ownership or
occupancy of real property. We are informed that such agreements
have been directed -against Indians, Jews, Chinese, Japanese, Mexicans, Hawaiians, Puerto Ricans, and Filipinos, among others.
27 See Bridges v. California, 314 U. S. 252, 261 (1941); Cantwell v.
Connecticut,310 U. S. 296, 307-308 (1940).
28 It should be observed that the restrictions relating to residential
occupancy contained in ordinances involved in the Buchanan,Harmon
and Deans cases, cited supra, and declared by this Court to be inconsistent with the requirements of the Fourteenth Amendment, applied
equally to white persons and Negroes.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinioi of the Court.

334 U. S.

not bear scrutiny. The parties have directed our attention to no case in which a court, state or federal, has been
called upon to enforce a covenant excluding members of
the white majority from ownership or occupancy of real
property on grounds of race or color. But there are more
fundamental considerations. The rights created by the
first section of the Fourteenth Amendment are, by its
terms, guaranteed to the individual. The rights established are personal rights. 9 It is, therefore, no answer to
these petitioners to say that the courts may also be induced to deny white persons rights of ownership and
occupancy on grounds of race or color. Equal protection
of the laws is not achieved through indiscriminate imposition of inequalities.
Nor do we find merit in the suggestion that property
owners who are parties to these agreements are denied
equal protection of the laws if denied access to the courts
to enforce the terms of restrictive covenants and to assert
property rights w!ich the state courts have held to be
created by such agreements. The Constitution confers
upon no individual the right to demand action by the
State which results in the denial of equal protection of
the laws to other individuals. And it would appear beyond question that the power of the State to create and
enforce property interests must be exercised within the
boundaries defined by the Fourteenth Amendment. Cf.
Marsh v. Alabama, 326 U S. 501 (1946).
The problem of defining the scope of the restrictions
which the Federal Constitution imposes upon exertions of
power by the States has given rise to many of the most
persistent and fundamental issues which this Court has
been called upon to consider. That problem was foremost in the minds of the framers of the Constitution,
29 McCabe v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe R. Co., 235 U. S. 151,
161-162 (1914); Missouri ex rel. Gaines v. Canada, 305 U. S. 337
(1938); Oyama v. California,332 U. S. 633 (1948).

SHELLEY v. KRAEMER.
Opinion of the Court.

and, since that early day, has arisen in a multitude of
forms. The task of determining whether the action of
a State offends constitutional provisions is one which may
not be undertaken lightly. Where, however, it is clear
that the action of the State violates the terms of the
fundamental charter, it is the obligation of this Court so
to declare.
The historical context in which the Fourteenth Amendment became a part of the Constitution should not be
forgotten. Whatever else the framers sought to achieve,
it is clear that the matter of primary concern was the
establishment of equality in the enjoyment of basic civil
and political rights and the preservation of those rights
from discriminatory action on the part of the States based
on considerations of race or color. Seventy-five years ago
this Court announced that the provisions of the Amendment are to be construed with this fundamental purpose
in mind.' "Upon full consideration, we have concluded
that in these cases the States have acted to deny petitioners the equal protection of the laws guaranteed by
the Fourteenth Amendment. Having so decided, we find
it unnecessary to consider whether .petitioners have also
been deprived of property without due process of law
or denied privileges and immunities of citizens of the
United States.
For the reasons stated, the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Missouri and the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Michigan must be reversed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE REED, MR. JUSTICE JACKSON, and MR. JusTICE RUTLEDGE took no part in the consideration or

decision of these cases.
30

Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 81

West Virginia, 100 U. S. 303 (1880).
Fourteenth Amendment.

(1873);

Strauder v.

See Flack, The Adoption of the

