OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

334 U. S.

be included in the estate for inheritance tax purposes.
No such properties are here involved, however.
We have considered the other points raised by the appellant but deem them to be without merit. The judgment
below is therefore
Affirmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS dissent.

and

GRYGER v. BURKE, WARDEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 541.

Argued April 26-27, 1948.-Decided June 14, 1948.

Petitioner was charged and convicted in a state court of Pennsylvania of being a fourth offender and sentenced to life imprisonment. In the proceeding on the fourth-offender charge, the only
question of fact before the court was whether he was the same
person who was convicted in four previous cases, and this he
admitted and does not now deny. Held:
1. It is for the Pennsylvania courts to say whether the sentencing judge made an error in construing the Pennsylvania
Habitual Criminal Act as making a life sentence mandatory and
not discretionary; and an error by a state court in construing
state law is not a denial of due process under the Federal
Constitution. P. 731.
2. In the circumstances disclosed by the record in this case,
the State's failure to provide counsel for petitioner on his plea
to the fourth-offender charge was not a denial of due process.
Bute v. Illinois, 333 U. S. 640. P. 731.
3. The fact that one of the convictions that entered into the
calculations by which petitioner became a fourth offender occurred
before the Pennsylvania Habitual Criminal Act was passed does
not make the Act invalidly retroactive or subject the petitioner
to double jeopardy. P. 732.
Affirmed.

Certiorari, 332 U. S. 854, to review denial of writ of
habeas corpus. Affirmed, p. 732.

GRYGER v. BURKE.
728

Opinion of the Court.

Archibald Cox argued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioner.
Franklin E. Barr argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief was John H. Maurer.
MR.

JUSTICE JACKSON

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania holds the petitioner prisoner under a life sentence as an habitual criminal. His claim here, protesting denial by the State Supreme Court of his petition for a writ of habeas corpus, is
that the Federal Constitution requires Pennsylvania to
release him on due process of law grounds because (1) he
was sentenced as a fourth offender without counsel or offer
of counsel; (2) one of the convictions on which the sentence is based occurred before the enactment of the Pennsylvania Habitual Criminal Act' and the statute is therefore unconstitutionally retroactive and ex post facto; and
(3) sentencing under this Act unconstitutionally subjects
him to double jeopardy.
At the outset, we face the suggestion that the case
cannot properly be decided on the merits by this Court
because, as a matter of state law, the attack on the life
sentence may be premature since petitioner would be
validly restrained on prior sentences not expiring until
at least February 1949, even if the life sentence were
to be invalidated. Some members of the Court prefer
to affirm the judgment on that ground. However, since
the state law question is not free from difficulty, the
issue was not fully litigated in this Court, and since, on
the merits,' the same conclusion is reached, we dispose of
the case in that manner.
I § 1108 of the Penal Code of 1939, 18 Pa. Stat. Ann. § 5108.
2 Respondent contested the case below and in this Court on the
merits. We assume that the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania passed
792%8 0-48-----51

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

Beginning in 1927, at the age of seventeen, this petitioner has been arrested eight times for crimes of violence,
followed in each instance by plea of guilty or by conviction. Respondent states, and petitioner does not deny,
that of the last 20 years of his life, over 13 years have
been spent in jail. A schedule of his pleas or convictions
and pertinent data is appended, post, p. 732, those in italics being the four on the basis of which an information was
filed charging him to be a fourth offender. Brought into
court on that limited charge, he acknowledged his identity
as the convict in each of the previous cases and he was
given a life sentence pursuant to the Act. He was without counsel and it is said that he was neither advised of his
right to obtain counsel nor was counsel offered to him.3
It rather overstrains our credulity to believe that one
who had been a defendant eight times and for whom counsel had twice waged defenses, albeit unsuccessful ones,,
did not know of his right to engage counsel. No request
to do so appears. The only question of fact before the
court on the fourth offender charge was whether he was
the same person who was convicted in the four cases.
This he then admitted and does not now deny. The
only other question was sentence, and it does not appear
that any information helpful to petitioner was unknown
*to the court.
on petitioner's allegations of deprivation of federal constitutional
rights and that those issues are therefore open here. Herndon v.
Lowry, 301 t. S.242,247.
The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania has frequently held that the
state constitutional provision according defendants the right to be
heard by counsel does not require appointment of counsel in noncapital cases. See, for example, Commonwealth ex rel. McGlinn v.
Smith, 344 Pa. 41, 24 A. 2d 1; Commonwealth ex rel. Withers v.
Ashe, 350 Pa. 493, 39 A. 2d 610. See also Betts v. Brady, 316 U. S.
455, 465. The Pennsylvania statutes require only that destitute
defendants accused of murder shall be assigned counsel. Act of
March 22, 1907, 19 Pa: Stat. Ann. § 784..

732

OCTOBER TERM.. 1947.
RUTLEDGE,

334 U,:S.

J., dissenting.

Nor do we think the fact that one of the convictions
that entered into the calculations by which petitioner
became a fourth offender occurred before the Act was
passed, makes the Act invalidly retroactive or subjects
the petitioner to double jeopardy. The sentence as a
fourth offender or habitual criminal. is not to be viewed
as either a new jeopardy or additional penalty for the
earlier crimes. It is a stiffened penalty for the latest
crime, which is considered to be an aggravated offense
because a repetitive one. Cf. Moore v. Missouri, 159
U. S. 673; McDonald v. Massachusetts, 180 U. S. 311;
Graham v. West Virginia, 224 U. S. 616; Carlesi v. New
York, 233 U. S. 51; Pennsylvaniaex rel. Sullivan v. Ashe,
302 U. S.51.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
Table of Pleasand Convictions.
Date

Charge

Plea

1917 ---- Burglary ......................
Guilty -------------1928 - --- Assault and battery; carrying Guilty -------------

concealed deadly weapon.
199 ......Burglary:breakingandentering
with intent to commit aftiony.
190 ----- Armed robbery, armed assault,
.entering with intent
to rob.
1937 ------Burglary, carrying concealed
deadly weapon;

Not guilty----------Guilty--------------

Sentence
I year.

1 year.
Committed to Reforma.
tory indefinitely.
65 to 10 years.

1943 ------Burglary, receiving stolen
goods-12 offenses each.

Guilty of receiving
stolen goods, and
carrying concealed
deadly weapon.
Guilty of receiving
stolen goods.

194 ---

Not guilty .............
5 to 10 years.

Burglary -------------------

1944 ------Aggravated assault and battery.

MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

Not guilty ----------

1,5 to 3 years.

5 to 10 years.

Suspended.

with whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

and MR.

JUSTICE MURPHY

join,

dissenting.
Even upon the narrow view to which a majority of this
Court adhere concerning the scope of the right to counsel

GRYGER v. BURKE.
728

Opinion of the Court.

It is said that the sentencing judge prejudiced the defendant by a mistake in construing the Pennsylvania
Habitual Criminal Act in that he regarded as mandatory
a sentence which is discretionary. It is neither clear that
the sentencing court so construed the statute, nor if he did
that we are empowered to pronounce it an error of Pennsylvania law. It is clear that the trial court, in view of
defendant's long criminal record, considered he had a duty
to impose the life sentence andreferred to it as one "required by the Act." But there is nothing to indicate that
he felt constrained to impose the penalty except as the
facts before him warranted it. And it in any event is for
the Pennsylvania courts to say under its law what duty
or discretion the court may have had. Nothing in the
record impeaches the fairness and temperateness with
which the trial judge approached his task. His action
has been affirmed by the highest court of the Commonwealth. We are not at liberty to conjecture that the trial
court acted under an interpretation of the state law different from that which we might adopt and then set up
our own interpretation as a basis for declaring that due
process has been denied. We cannot treat a mere error
of state law, if one occurred, as a denial of due process;
otherwise, every erroneous decision by a state court on
state law would come here as a federal constitutional
question.
We have just considered at length the obligation of the
States to provide counsel to defendants who plead guilty
to non-capital offenses. Bute v. Illinois, 333 U. S. 640.
Notwithstanding the resourceful argument of assigned
counsel in this Court, we think that precedent settles the
issue here, that no exceptional circumstances are present
and that, under the circumstances disclosed by the record
before us, the State's failure to provide counsel for this
petitioner on his plea to the fourth offender charge did not
render his conviction and sentence invalid.

GRYGER v. BURKE.
728

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

in criminal cases, as guaranteed by the Fourteenth
Amendment's requirement of due process of law, I cannot
square the decision in this case with that made in Townsend v. Burke, post, p. 736, decided today.
The opinion in that case declares that "the disadvantage
from absence of counsel, when aggravated by circumstances showing that it resulted in the prisoner actually
being taken advantage of, or prejudiced, does make out
a case of violation of due process." In this view the Court
finds that Townsend was prejudiced by the trial court's
action in sentencing him on the basis either of misinformation submitted to it concerning his prior criminal record or
by its misreading of the record and carelessness in that
respect. On the same basis Gryger's sentence was invalid,
although the Court finds no such exceptional circumstances here inducing prejudice as it finds in Townsend's
case.
The record, in my judgment, does reveal such a circumstance, one working to induce prejudice at exactly
the same point as with Townsend, namely, upon the critical question of sentence. So far as the record reveals,
Gryger was sentenced to life imprisonment by a court
working under the misconception tha;, a life term was
mandatory, not discretionary, under thc Pennsylvania
Habitual Criminal Act.'
Exactly the opposite is true. In explicit terms the
statute puts imposition of life imprisonment upon fourth
offenders "in the discretion of the judge." ' Moreover,
1 Pa. Stat.

Ann. tit. 18, § 5108.
Section 5108 (b) provides that when the prior convictions are
shown at the trial for the fourth offense, the defendant "shall, upon
2

conviction . . . be sentenced, in the discretion of the judge trying

'the case, to imprisonment in a state penitentiary for the term of
his natural life."
Section 5108 (d), which authorizes the procedure followed in the
instant case, viz, a separate proceeding on an information within

.734

-OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

334 U. S.

appeal of the sentence is authorized "not only as to alleged
legal errors but also as to the justice thereof," with the
costs of appeal and reasonable counsel fee to be paid by
the Commonwealth.
.In spite of his discretion and duty to exercise it, the
sentencing judge, remarking that the only question was
whether petitioner was the same person who had suffered
the prior convictions, repeatedly spoke as if the life sentence were mandatory. The statements quoted in the
margin are typical.'
Tt is immaterial that the same sentence might or probably would have been imposed in an exercise of the court's
discretion. Petitioner was entitled to have sentence pronounced in that manner, not as an automatic mandate of
statute. The denial of the very essence of the judicial
process; which is the exercise of discretion where discretion
is required, is in itself a. denial of due process, not merely
an error of state law of no concern to this Court. And we
cannot speculate whether the same sentence would have
been pronounced if the. court's discretion had been
exercised.
Moreover, the court's misconception, together with the
absence of counsel, deprived the petitioner of any chance
two years of the fourth conviction, provides that "the court may

sentence him to imprisonment for life as prescribed in clause (b)
of this section ......
That the statute vests discretion in the sentencing judge has been
*clearly recognized by the Commonwealth's highest court. Commonwealth ex rel. Foster v. Ashe, 336 Pa. 238, 240.
-3§ 5108 (d).

it becomes my duty, under the Act of Assembly, to treat
such a case, that is to say, where a person has been found guilty
-the fourth lime of a felony within a prescribed period, to impose
the sentence required by the Act."
41"...

"In other words, the law has come to this viewpoint: ...

[a

fourth offender] must be removed from the possibility of ever committing the offense again."

GRYGER v. BURKE.
728

RUTLEDGE,

735

J., dissenting.

to be heard on the crucial question of sentence, the only
matter left for hearing and the vital one after his plea
of guilty was received. Even if it could be assumed, as
the Court says, that he knew of his right to counsel from
his frequent prior appearances in court,' still it cannot be
assumed, indeed the record substantially disproves, that
he knew the exact terms of the Habitual Criminal Act.'
He therefore, misled it would seem by the court's language
giving no hint of its discretionary power, made no plea in
mitigation and had no representative to correct the court's
misconception or to present considerations which might
have induced a sentence less severe than the one pronounced. To paraphrase the concluding sentence of the
opinion in the Townsend case, "Counsel might not have
changed the sentence, but he could have taken steps to
5A

dubious assumption, it would seem, in view of the fact that
Pennsylvania generally confines the right to have counsel in criminal
trials to capital cases. See, e. g., Commonwealth ex rel. McGlinn v.
Smith, 344 Pa. 41; Commonwealth ex rel. Withers v. Ashe, 350 Pa.
493. Pa. Stat. Ann. tit. 19, § 784. But cf. note 3 and text.
6 Petitioner, when served with the information charging him as
a fourth offender, was confined in the penitentiary without financial
means of preparing a defense. He alleged, without contradiction,
that the prison authorities refused his request for a copy of the
Habitual Criminal Act. It is no answer, of course, to say that
petitioner had no need of the statute or other assistance because of
his previous trips through the courts. Whatever knowledge of court
procedures he may have acquired, he was unfamiliar with the fourth
offender act.
Even if petitioner had secured access prior to the hearing to
materials needed to prepare a defense, or had been adequately informed by the court as to the statute's terms and his rights thereunder, it is highly unrealistic to assume that petitioner was capable
of adequatcly presenting his own case at the hearing. The pleadings which he filed are telling witness of his limited intelligence and
education. And at the hearing it was so obvious that petitioner was
unable to comprehend the issues involved that the assistant district
attorney representing the Commonwealth remarked, "He doesn't
understand."

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

334 U. S.

see that the sentence was not predicated on misconception or misreading of the controlling statute, a requirement of fair play which absence of counsel withheld from
this prisoner."
I find it difficult to comprehend that the court's misreading or misinformation concerning the facts of record
vital to the proper exercise of the sentencing function is
prejudicial and deprives the defendant of due process of
law, but its misreading or misconception of the controlling
statute, in a matter "so vital as imposing mandatory sentence or exercising discretion concerning it, has no such
effect. Perhaps the difference serves only to illustrate
how capricious are the results when the right to counsel
is made to depend not upon the mandate of the Constitution, but upon the vagaries of* whether judges, the same
or different, will regard this incident or that in the course
of particular criminal proceedings as prejudicial.

TOWNSEND v. BURKE, WARDEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME

No. 542.

COURT

OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Argued April 27, 1948.-Decided June 14, 1948.

1. That a defendant convicted in a state court of a non-capital
offense on a plea of guilty had been held incommunicado for a
period of 40 hours between his arrest and his plea of guilty, has
no bearing on the validity of his conviction-particularly when
he makes no allegation that the circumstances of his detention
induced his plea of guilty. Pp. 737-738.
2. Where a defendant so convicted was not represented by counsel
and it appears from the record that, while the court was considering the sentence to be imposed, the defendant actually was
prejudiced either by the prosecution's submission of misinformation
regarding his prior criminal record or by the court's careless
misreading of that record, he was denied due process of law and
the conviction cannot be sustained. Pp. 738-741,
Reversed.

