TRADE dOMM'N v. MORTON SALT CO.

37

Syllabus.

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. MORTON
SALT CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 464.

Argued March 10, 1948.-Decided May 3,1948.

Respondent sells table salt in interstate commerce to wholesalers
and retailers on a quantity discount basis. The Federal Trade
Commission, after a hearing, found that respondent had discriminated in price between different purchasers of like grades and
qualities, in violation of § 2 of the Clayton Act as amended by
the Robinson-Patman Act, and issued a cease-and-desist order.
Held:
1. Respondent's quantity discounts discriminate in price within
the meaning of the Act, and are prohibited where they have the
proscribed effect on competition. Pp. 42-44.
2. The legislative history of the Robinson-Patman Act shows
that Congress considered it to be an evil that a large buyer could
secure a competitive advantage over a small'buyer solely because
of the former's quantity purchasing power; and the Act was passed
to deprive a large buyer of such advantages except to the extent
that a lower price could be justified by reason of a seller's diminished costs due to quantity production, delivery or sale, or by
reason of the seller's good faith effort to meet the equally low price
of a competitor. Pp. 43-44.
3. Under the Act the burden is upon the seller to prove that
its quantity discount differentials were justified by cost savings;
to establish the existence of a "discrimination in price" in a case
involving competitive injury between a seller's customers, the Commission need only prove that the seller has charged one purchaser
a higher price for like goods than he has charged one or more
of the purchaser's competitors. Pp. 44-45.
4. The Act does not require that the discriminations must in
fact have harmed competition, but only that there is a reasonable
possibility they may have that effect. P. 46.
5. The Commission's finding that the competitive opportunities
of certain merchants were injured when they had to pay respondent substantially more for their goods than their competitors had
to pay constitutes a sufficient showing of injury to competition.
Pp. 46-47,

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

334 U. S.

6. The Commission's findings of injury to competition were
adequately supported by the evidence. Pp. 47-oi.
(a) The evidence that respondent's quantity discounts resulted in price differentials between competing purchasers sufficient
in amount to influence their resale price was in itself adequate
to support the findings that the effect of such- price discriminations
"may be substantially to lessen competition . . . and to injure,
destroy, and prevent competition." P. 47.
(b) The evidence was adequate to support the Commission's
findings of reasonably possible injury to competition from respondent's price differentials between competing carload and less-thancarload purchasers. Such discounts, like all others, can be justified
by a seller who proves that the full amount of the discount is
based on his actual savings in cost; but here the respondent failed
to make such proof. Pp. 47-48.
(c) The fact that respondent's less-than-carload sales are very
small in comparison with the total volume of its business, and the
fact that salt is a small item in most wholesale and retail businesses
and in consumers' budgets, do not require rejection of the Commission's finding that the effect of the carload discrimination may
substantially lessen competition and may injure competition between purchasers who are granted and those who are denied this
discriminatory discount. Pp. 48-50.
(d) The possibility that enforcement of the Commission's
order might lead respondent to increase prices to its carload purchasers cannot -justify refusal of the reviewing court to decree
enforcement. P. 50.
(e) It is self-evident that there is a "reasonable possibilitythat competition may be adversely affected by a practice whereby
manufacturers and producers sell their goods to some customers
substantially cheaper than they sell like goods to competitors of
such customers. P. 50.
7. With the exception of certain provisos which this Court
rejects, the cease-and-desist'order of the Commission is sustained.
Pp. 51-55.
(a) The Commission's order, so far as here approved, is specifically aimed at the pricing practices found unlawful, and is
neither too broad nor contrary to the principle of Labor Board v.
Express Publishing Co., 312 U. S. 426. Pp. 51-52.
(b) Provisions of the order which forbid respondent from
selling its product, regardless of quantities, to some wholesalers
and retailers at a price different from that which it charged com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

of § 2 of the Clayton Act, 38 Stat. 730, as amended by
the Robinson-Patman Act, 49 Stat. 1526, 15 U. S. C. § 13.1
It accordingly issued a cease and desist order. 39 F. T. C.
35.2 Upon petition of the respondent the Circuit Court of
Appeals, with one judge dissenting, set aside the Commission's findings and order, directed the Commission to dismiss its complaint against respondent, and denied a cross
petition of the Commission for enforcement of its order.
162 F. 2d 949. The Court's judgment rested on its construction of the Act, its holding that crucial findings of the
Commission were either not supported by evidence or
were contrary to the evidence, and its conclusion that
the Commission's order was too broad. Since questions
of importance in the construction and administration of
the Act were presented, we granted certiorari. 332 U. S.
850. Disposition of these questions requires only a brief
narration of the facts.
Respondent manufactures several different brands of
table salt' and sells them directly to (1) wholesalers or
I Section 2 (a) provides in part" "It shall be unlawful for any person
engaged in commerce, in the course of such commerce, either directly or indirectly, to discriminate in price between different purchasers of commodities of like grade and quality, where either or
any of the purchases involved in such discrimination are in commerce, where such commodities are sold for use, consumption, or
resale within the United States or any Territory thereof or the District of Columbia or any insular possession or other place under the
jurisdiction of the United States, and where the effect of such discrimination may be substantially to lessen competition or tend to
create a monopoly. in any line of commerce, or to injure, destroy, or
prevent competition with any person who either grants or knowingly
receives the benefit of such discrimination, or with customers of either
of them . .. ."
2 The original findings and order were modified by the Commission
on its own motion. The controversy here deals only with the findings
and order as modified.
3 Respondent also produces and sells other kinds of salt, but the
trade practices here involved only relate to table salt.

TRADE COMM'N v. MORTON SALT CO.
37

39

Opinion of the Court.

peting wholesalers and retailers for the same grade, are here
approved. Pp. 52-53.
(c) Provisos permitting 5-cents-per-case differentials if they
do not "tend to lessen, injure, or destroy competition" are here
rejected because the qualifying clause tends to shift to the courts
a responsibility in enforcement proceedings which Congress has
primarily entrusted to the Commission. Pp. 53-55.
(d) Section 2 (a) of the Act authorizes a provision of the
order forbidding sales by respondent to any retailer at prices
lower than those charged wholesalers whose customers compete
with such retailer. P. 55.
8. On remand of the cause, the Commission should have an
opportunity to reconsider the provisos in its order which permit
5-cents-per-case differentials in the light of this Court's rejection
of the qualifying clauses, and to refashion these provisos as may
be deemed necessary. P. 55.
162 F. 2d 949, reversed.

A cease-and-desist order issued by the Federal Trade
Commission in a proceeding against respondent under the
amended Clayton Act, to terminate alleged unlawful
price discriminations, 39 F. T. C. 35, was set aside by
the Circuit Court of Appeals. 162 F. 2d 949. This
Court granted certiorari. 332 U. S. 850. Reversed and
remanded, p. 55.
Robert L. Stern argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief were Solicitor GeneralPerlman,Assistant
Attorney GeneralSonnett and W. T. Kelley.
Lloyd M. McBride argued the cause and filed a brief

for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.

The Federal Trade Commission, after a hearing, found
that the respondent, which manufactures and sells table
salt in interstate commerce, had discriminated in price

between different purchasers of like grades and qualities,
and concluded that such discriminations were in violation

TRADE COMM'N v. MORTON SALT CO.

41

Opinion of the Court.

37

jobbers, who in turn resell to the retail trade, and (2)
large retailers, including chain store retailers. Respondent sells its finest brand of table salt, known as Blue Label,
on what it terms a standard quantity discount system
available to all customers. Under this system the purchasers pay a delivered price and the cost to both wholesale and retail purchasers of this brand differs according
to the quantities bought. These prices are as follows,
after making allowance for rebates and discounts:
Per case
$1.60
Less-than-carload purchases .......................
Carload purchases............................... 1.50
5,000-case purchases in any consecutive 12 months... 1.40
1.35
50,000-case purchases in any consecutive 12 months..

Only five companies have ever bought sufficient quantities of respondent's salt to obtain the $1.35 per case price.
These companies could buy in such quantities because
they operate large chains of retail stores in various parts
of the country. As a result of this low price these five
companies have been able to sell Blue Label salt at retail
cheaper than wholesale purchasers from respondent could
reasonably sell the same brand of salt to independently
operated retail stores, many of whom competed with the
local outlets of the five chain stores.
Respondent's table salts, other than Blue Label, are
also sold under a quantity discount system differing
slightly from that used in selling Blue Label. Sales of
these other brands in less-than-carload lots are made at
list price plus freight from plant to destination. Carload purchasers are granted approximately a 5 per cent
discount; approximately a 10 per cent discount is granted
to purchasers who buy as much as $50,000 worth of all
brands of salt in any consecutive twelve-month period.
4 These

chain stores are American Stores Company, National Tea
Company, Kroger Grocery Co., Safeway Stores, Inc., and Great
Atlantic & Pacific Tea Company.
792588 0-48--8

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

Respondent's quantity discounts on Blue Label and on
other table salts were enjoyed by certain wholesalers and
retailers who competed with other wholesalers and retailers to whom these disgounts were refused.
In addition to these standard quantity discounts, special allowances were granted certain favored customers
who competed with other customers to whom they were
denied."
First. Respondent's basic contention, which it argues
this case hinges upon, is that its "standard quantity discounts, available to all on equal terms, as contrasted, for
example, to hidden or special rebates, allowances, prices
or discounts, are not discriminatory within the meaning
of the Robinson-Patman Act." Theoretically, these discounts are equally available to all, but functionally they
are not. For as the record indicates (if reference to it on
this point were necessary) no single independent retail
grocery store, and probably no single wholesaler, bought
as many as 50,000 cases or as much as $50,000 worth of
table salt in one year. Furthermore, the record shows
that, while certain purchasers were enjoying one or more
of respondent's standard quantity discounts, some of
5

One such customer, a wholesaler, received a special discount of 71/2
cents per case on purchases of carload lots of Blue Label Salt. Respondent sold to this wholesaler at $1.421/2 per case, although competing wholesalers were required to pay $1.50 per case 'on carload lots.
The Circuit Court of Appeals.held that findings of the*Commission on
these special allowances were supported by substantial evidence, that
they were not maintained to meet lower prices of respondent's competitors, and that the allowances were discriminatory. It nevertheless set the findings aside on the ground that the Commission's finding of injury to competition from the discriminations engaged in by
respondent was too general and had little evidence to support it. We
think the finding and supporting evidence of injury to competition
on acount of these special allowances are similar to the finding and
evidence with reference to the quantity discount system and need
not be separately treated.

TRADE COMM'N v. MORTON SALT CO.
37

Opinion of the Court.

their competitors made purchases in such small quantities that they could not qualify for any of respondent's
discounts, even those based on carload shipments. The
legislative history of the Robinson-Patman Act makes
it abundantly clear that Congress considered it to be an
evil that a large buyer could secure a competitive advantage over a small buyer solely because of the large buyer's
quantity purchasing ability. The Robinson-Patman Act
wis passed to deprive a large buyer of such advantages
except to tfie extent that a lower price could be justified
by reason of a seller's diminished costs due to quantity
manufacture, delivery or sale, or by reason of the seller's
good faith effort to meet a competitor's equally low
price.
Section 2 of the original Clayton Act had included a
proviso that nothing contained in it should prevent "discrimination in price . . . on account of differences in the
grade, quality, or quantity of the commodity sold, or that
makes only due allowance for difference in the cost of
selling or transportation . . . ." That section has been
construed as permitting quantity discounts, such as those
here, without regard to the amount of the seller's actual
savings in cost attributable to quantity sales or quantity
deliveries. Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. v. Federal Trade
Comn'n, 101 F. 2d 620. The House Committee Report
on the Robinson-Patman Act considered that the Clayton
Act's proviso allowing quantity discounts so weakened § 2
"as to render it inadequate, if not almost a nullity." 6
The Committee considered the present Robinson-Patman
amendment to § 2 "of great importance." Its purpose
was to limit- "the use of quantity price differentials to
the sphere of actual cost differences. Otherwise," the
report continued, "such differentials would become instruments of favor and privilege and weapons of com8

H. R. Rep. No. 2287, 74th Cong., 2d Sess. 7.

44

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

,petitive oppression."'
The Senate Committee reporting
the bill emphasized the same purpose,8 as did the Congressman in charge of the Conference Report when explaining it to the House just-before final passage.' And
it was in furtherance of this avowed purpose-to protect
competition from all price differentials except those based
in full on cost savings-that § 2 (a) of the amendment
provided "That nothing herein contained shall prevent
differentials which make only due allowance for differences in the cost of manufacture, sale, or delivery
resulting from the differing methods or quantities in
which such commodities are to such purchasers sold or
delivered."
The foregoing references, without regard to others
which could be mentioned, establish that respondent's
standard quantity discounts are discriminatory within,
the meaning of the Act, and are prohibited by it whenever
ihey have the defined effect on competition. See Federal
Trade Comm'n v. Staley Co., 324 U. S. 746, 751.
Second. The Government interprets the opinion of the
Circuit Court of Appeals as having held that in order to
establish "discrimination in price" under the Act the burden rested on the Commission to prove that respondent's
quantity discount dlifferentials were not justified by its
cost savings."° Respondent does not so understand the
Court of Appeals decision, and furthermore admits that
no such burden rests on the Commission. We agree that
it does not. First, the general rule of statutory construction that the burden of proving justification or exemption
under a special exception to the prohibitions of a statute
7

1d. at 9.

Sen. Rep. No. 1502, 74th C'ong., 2d Sess. 4-6.
0 80 Cong. Rec. 9417.
10 See 42 Ill.
L. Rev. 556-561; 15 U. of Chi. L. Rev. 384-391; 60
Harv. L. Rev. 1167-1169.
8

TRADE COMM'N v. MORTON SALT CO.
37

45

Opinion of the Court.

generally rests on one who claims its benefits," requires
that respondent undertake this proof under the proviso of
§ 2 (a). Secondly, § 2 (b) of the Act specifically imposes
the burden of showing justification upon one who is shown
to have discriminated in prices. And the Senate committee report on the bill explained that the provisos of § 2 (a)
throw "upon any who claim the benefit of those exceptions the burden of showing that their case falls within
them." 12 We think that the language of the Act, and
the legislative history just cited, show that Congress
meant by using the words "discrimination in price" in
§ 2 that in a case involving competitive injury between a
seller's customers the Commission need only prove that a
seller had charged one purchaser a higher price for like
goods than he had charged one or more of the purchaser's
competitors."3 This construction is consistent with the
first sentence of § 2 (a) in which it is mAde unlawful "to
discriminate in price between different purchasers of commodities of like grade and quality, where either or any
of the purchases involved in such discrimination are in
commerce . . . and where the effect of such discrimination may be . . .- to injure, destroy, or prevent competition with any person who either grants or knowingly receives the benefit of such discrimination, or with customers of either of them: . .
Third. It is argued that the findings fail to show that
respondent's discriminatory discounts had in fact caused
11 Javierre v. Central Altagracia, 217 U. S. 502, 507-508 and cases
cited.
1' Sen. Rep. No. 1502, 74th Cong., 2d Sess. 3.
See also 80 Cong.
Rec. 3599, 8241.,9418.
13 See Moss, Inc. v. Federal Trade Comm'n, 148 F. 2d 378, 379, holding that proof of a price differential in itself constituted "discrimination in price," where the competitive injury in question was between
sellers. See also Federal Trade Comm'n v. Cement Institute, 333
U. S. 683, 721-726.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

injury to competition. There are specific findings that
such injuries had resulted from respondent's discounts,
although the statute does not require the Commission to
find that injury has actually resulted. The statute requires no more than that the effect of the prohibited
price discriminations "may be substantially to lessen
competition . . . or to injure, destroy, or prevent competition." After a careful consideration of this provision
of the Robinson-Patman Act, we have said that "the
statute does not require that the discriminations must
in fact have harmed competition, but only that there
is a reasonable possibility that they 'may' have such an
effect." Corn Products Co. v. Federal Trade Comm'n,
324 U. S. 726, 742.'" Here the Commission found what
would appear to bd obvious, that the competitive opportunities of certain merchants were injured when they
had to pay respondent substantially more for their goods
14 This language is to be read also in the light of the following statement in the same case, discussing the meaning of § 2 (a), as contained
in the Robinson-Patman Act, in relation to § 3 of the Clayton Act:
"It is to be observed that § 2 (a) does not require a finding that
the discriminations in price have in fact had an adverse effect on
competition. The statfite is designed to reach such discriminations
'in their incipiency,' before the harm to competition is effected. It
is enough that they 'may' have the prescribed effect. Cf. Standard
Fashion Co. v. Magrane-Houston Co., 258 U. S.346, 356-357. But
as was held in the Standard Fashion case, supra, with respect to
the like provisions of § 3 of the Clayton Act, prohibiting tying clause
agreements, the effect of which 'may be to substantially lessen competition,' the use of the word 'may' was not to prohibit discriminations having 'the mere possibility' of those consequences, but to
reach those which would probably have the defined effect on competition." 324 U. S. at 738; see also United States v. Lexington Mill
Co., 232 U. S.399, 411.
The Committee Reports and Congressional debate on this provision of the Robinson-Patman Act indicate that it was intended to
have a broader scope than the corresponding provision of the old
Clayton Act. See note 18 infra.

TRADE COMM'N v. MORTON SALT CO.
37

47

Opinion of the Court.

than their competitors had to pay. The findings are
adequate.
Fourth. It is urged that the evidence is inadequate to
support the Commission's findings of injury to competition.'5 As we have pointed out, however, the Commission is authorized by the Act to bar discriminatory
prices upon the "reasonable possibility" that different
prices for like goods to competing purchasers may have
the defined effect on competition."8 That respondent's
quantity discounts did result in price differentials between
competing purchasers sufficient in amount to influence
their resale prices of salt was shown by evidence. This
showing in itself is adequate to support the Commission's
appropriate findings that the effect of such price discriminations "may be substantially to lessen competition . . .
and to injure, destroy, and prevent competition."
The adequacy of the evidence to support the Commission's findings of reasonably possible injury to competition from respondent's price differentials between competing carload and less-than-carload purchasers is singled
out for special attacks here. It is suggested that in considering the adequacy of the evidence to show injury to
competition respondent's carload discounts and its other
'" After discussing all of respondent's discriminations, the Commission stated: "The Commission finds that the effect of the discriminations in price, including discounts, rebates, and allowances,
generally and specifically described herein may be substantially to
lessen competition in the line of commerce in which the purchaser
receiving the benefit of said discriminatory price is engaged and
to injure, destroy, and prevent competition between those purchasers receiving the benefit of said discriminatory prices, discounts,
rebates, and allowances and those to whom they are denied."
18 The statute outlaws any discrimination the effect of which "may
be substantially to lessen competition . . . or to injure . . . competition with any person who either grants or knowingly receives the
benefit of such discrimination, or with customers of either of
them: . . ."

OCTOBER. TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

quantity discounts should not be treated alike. The
argument is that there is an obvious saving to a seller
who delivers goods in carload lots. Assuming this to
be true, that fact would not tend to disprove injury to
the merchant compelled to pay the less-than-carload
price. For a ten-cent carload price differential against
a merchant would injure him competitively just as
much as a ten-cent differential under any other name.
However relevant the separate carload argument might
be to the question of justifying a differential by cost
savings, it has no relevancy in determining whether the
differential works an injury to a competitor. Since
Congress'has not seen fit to give carload discounts
any' favored classification we cannot do so. Such discounts, like all others, can be justified by a seller who
proves that the full amount of the discount is based on
his actual savings in cost. The trouble with this phase
of respondent's case is that it has thus far failed to make
such proof.
It is also argued that respondent's less-than-carload
sales are very small in comparison with the total volume
of its business '" and for that reason we should reject the
Commission's finding that the effect of the carload dis-

crimination may substantially lessen competition and may
injure competition between purchasers who are granted
and those who are denied this discriminatory discount.
To support this argument, reference is made to the fact
17Respondent

intro(duce( testinony and exhibits inteled to show

that only one-tenth of one per cent of its sales were made at lessthan-carload prices. It apwars that this figure relActes only to a
single one-year period and was obtained 1) lumpning togther statisies
on respondent's sales of table salt along with those on sales of its
other pro(lucts, such as salt tablets, coarse rock -alt, and sal soda.

Since this proceeding is concerned only with discounts on table salts,
these figures are of dubious value.

Furthermore, they are limited

to sales in respondent's Chicago area, whereas respondent carried on

a nation-wide business.

TRADE COMM'N v. MORTON SALT CO.
37

53

Opinion of the Court.

order done no more than that, respondent could have continued substantially the same unlawful practices despite
the order by simply altering the discount percentages and
the quantities of salt to which the percentages applied.
Paragraphs (a) and (b) up to the language of the provisos are approved.
-The provisos in (a) and (b) present a more difficult
problem. They read: "provided, however, that this shall
not prevent price differences of less than five cents per
case which do not tend to lessen, injure, or destroy competition among such wholesalers [retailers]." The first
clause of the provisos, but for the second qualifying clause,
would unequivocally permit respondent to maintain price
differentials of less than five cents as between competing
wholesalers and as between competing retailers.' This
clause would appear to benefit respondent, and no challenge to it, standing alone, is here raised. But respondent
seriously objects to the second clause of the proviso which
qualifies the permissive less-than-five-cent differentials
provided in the first clause. That qualification permits
such differentials only if they do "not tend to lessen,
injure, or destroy competition." Respondent points out
that where a differential tends in no way to injure competition, the Act permits it. "The Commission," so respondent urges, "must either find and rule that a given
differential injures competition, and then prohibit it, or
it must leave that differential entirely alone." Whether,
and under what circumstances, if any, the Commission
The only finding of the Commission specifically relating to
five-cent differentials was: "Salt is a staple commodity with a
medium turnover hnd is generally sold by wholesalers to their retail
customers on a lower margin of profit than that received on other
commodities. Consequently, the price at which the wholesaler offers
his table salt is usually controlling, and.a difference of five cents per
case may result in the loss of a sale to a customer, not only of the
salt involved but of other commodities as well, the order for which
might be placed with the salt purchase."

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

might prohibit differentials which do not of themselves
tend to injure competition, we need not decide, for the
Commission has not in either (a) or (b) taken action
which forbids such noninjurious differentials. But other
objections raised to the qualifying clauses require consideration.
One of the reasons for entrusting enforcement of this
Act primarily to the Commission, a body of experts, was
to authorize it to hear evidence as to given differential
practices and to make findings- concerning possible injury
to competition. Such findings are to form the basis for
cease and desist orders definitely restraining the particular discriminatory practices which may tend to injure
competition without justification. The effective administration of the Act, insofar as the Act entrusts administration to the Commission, would be greatly impaired if,
without compelling reasons not here present, the Commission's cease and desist orders did no more than shift to the
courts in subsequent contempt proceedings for their violation the very fact questions of injury to competition,
etc., which the Act requires the Commission to determine
as the basis for its order. The enforcement responsibility
of the courts, once a Commission order has become final
either by lapse of time or by court approval, 15 U. S. C.
§§ 21, 45, is to adjudicate questions concerning the order's
violation, not questions of fact which support that valid
order.
Whether on this record the Commission was compelled
to exempt certain differentials of less than five cents we do
not decide. But once the Commission exempted the differentials in question from its order, we are constrained to
hold that as to those differentials it could not then shift
to the courts a responsibility in enforcement proceedings
of trying issues of possible injury to competition, issues
which Congress has primarily entrusted to the Commission.

TRADE COMM'N v. MORTON SALT CO.
37

JACKSON,

55

J., dissenting in part.

This leaves for consideration the objection to paragraph
(c) of the order which reads: "By selling such products
to any retailer at prices lower than prices charged wholesalers whose customers compete with such retailer." The
only criticism here urged to (c) is that it bars respondent
from selling to a retailer at a price lower than that charged
a wholesaler whose customers compete with the retailer.
Section 2 (a) of the Act specifically authorizes the Commission to bar discriminatory prices which tend to lessen
or injure competition with "any person who either grants
or knowingly receives the benefit of such discrimination,
or with customers of either of them." This provision
plainly supports paragraph (c) of the order.
We sustain the Commission's order with the exception
of the provisos in paragraphs (a) and (b) previously set
out. Since the qualifying clauses constitute an important limitation to the provisos, we think the Commission
should have an opportunity to reconsider the entire provisos in light of our rejection of the qualifying clauses,
and to refashion these provisos as may be deemed necessary. This the Commission may do upon the present
evidence and findings or it may hear other evidence and
make other findings on this phase of the case, should it
conclude to do so. See Federal Trade Comm'n v. Royal
Milling Co., 288 U. S. 212, 218.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and the proceedings are remanded to that court
to be disposed of in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,
FURTER joins,

with whom

MR. JUSTICE FRANK-

dissenting in part.

While I agree with much of the Court's opinion, I
cannot accept its most significant feature, which is a new
interpretation of the Robinson-Patman Act that will

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting in part.

334 U. S.

sanction prohibition of any discounts if "there is a reasonable possibility that they 'may' have" the effec to wit:
to lessen, injure, destroy or prevent competition. [Emphasis supplied.] I think the law as written by the
Congress and as always interpreted by this Court requires
that the record show a reasonable probability of that
effect. The difference, as every lawyer knows, is not
unimportant and in many cases would be decisive.
The law rarely authorizes judgments on proof of mere
possibilities. After careful consideration this Court has,
at least three times and as late as 1945, refused to interpret these laws as doing so. In 1922, in StandardFashion
Co. v. Magrane-Houston Co., 258 U. S. 346, at 356, a
unanimous Court, construing like language in § 3 of the
Clayton Act, said: "But we do not think that the purpose
in using the word 'may' was to prohibit the mere possibility of the consequences described. It was intended to
prevent such agreements as would under the circumstances disclosed probably lessen competition, or create
an actual tendency to monopoly."
In 1930, in International Shoe Company v. Federal
Trade Commission, 280 U. S. 291, the Court said (at
p. 298) with respect to identical language in § 7 of the
Clayton Act: ". . . the act deals only with such acquisitions as probably will result in lessening competition
to a substantial degree, StandardFashion Co. v. MagraneHouston Co., 258 U. S. 346, 357 . . ." And Mr. Justice
Stone wrote for the dissenting justices (280 U. S. 306):
"Noram I able to'say that the McElwain Company . . .
was then in such financial straits as to preclude the reasonable inference by the Commission that its business . . .
would probably continue tt) compete with that of petitioner. See Standard Fashion Co. v. Magrane-Houston
Co., 258U. S. 346, 356-357."
With these interpretations on our books the RobinsonPatman Act was passed.

TRADE COMM'N v. MORTON SALT CO.
37

JACKSON,

57

J., dissenting in part.

When the latter Act came before this Court in 1945,
this same question was carefully considered and Chief
Justice Stone, with the concurrence of all but two members of the Court and with no disagreement noted on
this point, wrote:
"It is to be observed that § 2 (a) does not require a
finding that the discriminations in price have in fact
had an adverse effect on competition. The statute is
designed to reach such discriminations 'in their incipiency,' before the harm to competition is effected. It is
enough that they 'may' have the prescribed effect. Cf.
Standard Fashion Co. v. Magrane-HoustonCo., 258 U. S.
346, 356-357. But as was held in the Standard Fashion
case, supra, with respect to the like provisions of § 3 of
the Clayton Act, prohibiting tying clause agreements, the
effect of which 'may be to substantially lessen competition,' the use of the word 'may' was not to prohibit
discriminations having 'the mere possibility' of those consequences, but to reach those which would probably have
the defined effect on competition." Corn Product&Company v. Federal Trade Commission, 324 U. S.726, 738.
It is true that later (324 U. S. at 742) the opinion
uses the language as to possibility of injury now quoted
in part1 by the Court as the holding of that case. But
the phrase appears in such form and context and is so
irreconcilable with the earlier careful and complete stateThe full text of the later reference, quoted in part by the Court,
is: "As we have said, the statute does not require that the discriminations must in fact have harmed competition, but only that there
is a reasonable possibility that they 'may' have such an effect. We
think that it was permissible for the Commission to infer that these
discriminatory allowances were a substantial threat to competition."
It seems obvious that the Court's "as we have said" refers to the
earlier statement that the test is "prQbability" which is quoted in
full" above,, particularly in the absence of any other citation or
reference.
79258.8 -8-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting in part.

334 U. S.

ment, set out above, that the inconsistency must appear to
a fair readei as one of those inadvertencies into which the
most careful judges sometimes fall. It is the only authority for making a thrice-rejected rule of interpretation
a prevailing one. I know of no other instance in which
this Court has ever held that administrative orders applying drastic regulation of business practices may hang on
so slender a thread of inference.
The Court uses overtones of hostility to all quantity
discounts, which I do not find in the Act, but they are
translated into a rule which is fatal to any discount the
Commission sees fit to attack. To say it is the law that
the Commission may strike down any discount "upon the
'reasonable possibility' that different prices for like goods
to competing purchasers may" substantially injure competition, coupled with the almost absolute subservience
of judicial judgment to administrative experience, cf.
Securities & Exchange Commission v. Chenery Corp., 332

U. S: 194, means that judicial review is a word of promise
to the ear to be broken to the hope. The law of this case,
in a nutshell, is that no quantity discount is valid if the
Commission chooses to say it is not.

That is not the law

which Congres enacted and which this Court has uniformly stated until today.
The Robinson-Patman Act itself, insofar as it relates to
quantity discounts, seems to me, on its face and in light of
its history, to strive for two results, both of which should
be kept in mind when interpreting it.
On the one hand, it recognizes that the quantity discount may be utilized arbitrarily and without justification
in savings effected by quantity sales, to give a discriminatory advantage to large buyers over small ones. This
evil it would prohibit. On the other hand, it recognizes
that a business practice so old and general is not without
some basis in reason, that much that we call our standard
of living is due to the wide availability of low-priced goods,

TRADE COMM'N v. MORTON SALT CO.
37

49

Opinion of the Court.

that salt is a small item in most wholesale and retail
businesses and in consumers' budgets. For several reasons wecannot accept this contention.
There are many articles in a grocery store that, considered separately, are comparatively small parts of a merchant's stock. Congress intended to protect a merchant
from competitive injury attributable to discriminatory
prices on any or all goods sold in interstate commerce,
whether the particular goods constituted a major or minor
portion of his stock. Since a grocery store consists of
many comparatively small articles, there is no possible
way effectively to protect a grocer from discriminatory
prices except by applying the prohibitions of the Act to
each individual article in the store.
Furthermore, in enacting the Robinson-Patman Act,
Congress was especially concerned with protecting small
businesses which were unable to buy in quantities, such
as the merchants here who purchased in less-than-carload
lots. To this end it undertook to strengthen this very
phase of the old Clayton Act. The committee reports on
the Robinson-Patman Act emphasized a belief that § 2
of the Clayton Act had "been too restrictive, in requiring a showing of general injury to competitive conditions . . . ." The new provision, here controlling, was
intended to justify a finding of injury to competition by a
showing of "injury to the'competitor victimized by the discrimination." '" Since there was evidence sufficient to
18

In explaining this clause of the proposed Robinson-Patman Act,

the Senate Judiciary Committee said:
"This clause represents a recommended addition to the bill as
referred to your committee. It tends to exclude from the bill otherwise harmless violations of its letter, but accomplishes a substantial
broadening of a similar clause now contained in section 2 of the
Clayton Act. The latter has in practice been too restrictive, in
requiring a showing of general injury to competitive conditions in
the line of commerce concerned; whereas the more immediately
important concern is in injury to the competitor victimized by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

show that the less-than-carload purchasers might have
been handicapped in competing with the more favored
carload purchasers by the differential in price established
by respondent, the Commission was justified in finding
that competition might have thereby been substantially
lessened or have been injured within the meaning of the
Act.
Apprehension is expressed in this Court that enforcement of the Commission's order against respondent's continued violations of the Robinson-Patman Act might lead
respondent to raise table salt prices to its carload purchasers. Such a conceivable, though, we think, highly
improbable, contingency,. could afford us no reason for
upsetting the Commission's findings and declining to direct compliance with a statute passed by Congress.
The Commission here went much further in receiving
evidence than the statute requires. It heard testimony
from many witnesses in various parts of the country to
show that they had suffered actual financial losses on
account of respondent's discriminatory prices. Experts
were offered to prove the tendency of injury from such
prices. The evidence covers about two thousand pages,
largely devoted to this single issue-injury to competition.
It would greatly handicap effective enforcement of the
Act to require testimony to show that which-we believe
to be self-evident, namely, that there is a "reasonable possibility" that competition may be adversely affected by
a practice under which manufacturers and producers sell
their "goods to some customers substantially cheaper than
they sell like goods to the competitors of these customers.
This showing in itself is sufficient to justify our conclusion
discrimination. Only through such injuries, in fact, can the larger
general' injury result, and to catch the weed in the seed will keep
it from coming to flower."' S. Rep. No. 1502, 74th Cong.,.2d Sess. 4.
See also H. R. Rep. No. 2287, 74th Cong., 2d Sess. 8; 80 Cong. Rec.
9417.

TRADE COMM'N v. MORTON SALT CO.
37

51

Opinion of the Court.

that the Commission's findings of injury to competition
were adequately supported by evidence.
Fifth. The Circuit Court of Appeals held, and respondent here contends, that the order was too sweeping, that
it required the respondent to "conduct its business generally at its peril," and that the Commission had exceeded
its jurisdiction-in entering such an order."9 Reliance for
this contention chiefly rests on Labor Board v. Express
Publishing Co., 312 U. S. 426. That case held that the
Labor Board could not broadly enjoin violations of all
the provisions of the statute merely because a single violation of one of the Act's many provisions had been found.
Id. at 435-436. But it also pointed out that the Labor
Board, "Having found the acts which constitute the unfair
labor practice . . . is free to 'restrain the practice and
other like or related unlawful acts." It there pointed out
that this Court had applied a similar rule to a Federal
Trade Commission order in Federal Trade Comm'n v.
Beech-Nut Co., 257 U. S. 441, 455. In the latter case the
19 The prohibiting paragraphs of the order were:

"(a) By selling such products to some wholesalers thereof at prices
different from the prices charged other wholesalers who in fact compete in the sale and distribution of such products; provided, however,
that this shall not prevent price differences of less than five cents
per case which do not tend to lessen, injure, or destroy competition
among such wholesalers.
"(b) By selling such products to some retailers thereof at prices
different from the prices charged other retailers who in fact compete
in the sale and distribution of such products; provided, however, that
this shall not prevent price differences of less than five cents per
case which do not tend to lessen, injure,, or destroy competition
among such retailers.
"(c) By selling such products to any retailer at prices lower than
prices charged wholesalers whose customers compete with such
retailer,
"For the purposes of comparison, the term 'price' as used in this
order takes into account discounts, rebates, allowances, and other
terms and conditions of sale."

52

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. 8.

Court not only approved restraint of the unlawful pricefixing practices found, but "any other equivalent cooperative means of accomplishing the maintenance of prices
fixed by the company." See also May Dep't Stores Co. v.
Labor Board, 326 U. S. 376, 392-393. We think the Commission's order here, save for the provisos in (a) and (b)
later considered, is specifically aimed at the pricing practices found unlawful, and therefore does not run counter
to the holding in the Express Publishing Co. case. Certainly the order in its relation to the circumstances of this
case is only designed "to prevent violations, the threat
of which in the future is indicated because of their
similarity or relation to those unlawful acts which the
Board [Commission] has found to have been committed
by the . . . [respondent] in the past." Labor Board v.
Express PublishingCo., supra, 436-437.
The specific restraints of paragraphs (a) and (b) of the
order are identical, except that one applies to prices re.,
spondent charges wholesalers and the other to prices
charged retailers. It is seen that the first part of these
paragraphs, preceding the provisos, would absolutely bar
respondent from selling its table salt, regardless of quantities, to some wholesalers and retailers at prices different
from that which it charged competing wholesalers and
retailers for the same grade:of salt. The Commission had
found that respondent had been continuously engaged
in such discriminations through the use of discounts, rebates and allowances. It had further found that respondent had failed to show justification for these differences
by reason of a corresponding difference in its costs. Thus
the restraints imposed by the Commission upon respondent are concerned with the precise unlawful practices in
which it was found to have engaged for a number of years.
True, the Commission did not merely prohibit future discounts, rebates, and allowances in the exact mathematical
percentages previously utilized by respondent. Had the

TRADE COMM'N v. MORTON SALT CO.
37

JACKSON,

59

J., dissenting in part.

made possible by mass production and quantity distribution, and hence that whatever economies result from
quantity transactions may, and indeed should, be passed
down the line to the consumer. I think the Court's disposition of this case pretty much sanctions an obliteration
of the difference between discounts which the Act would
foster and those it would condemn.
It will illustrate my point to discuss only two of the
discounts involved-two which the Commission and the
Court lump together and treat exactly alike, but which
to me require under the facts of this case quite different
inferences as to their effect on competition.
In addition to a general ten-cent per case carload lot
discount, there is what we may call a quota discount,
by which customers who purchase 5,000 or more cases
in a twelve-month period get a further rebate of 10 cents
per case, while those who purchase 50,000 or more cases
in such periods get an additional 5 cents per case. The
application of this schedule to distribution of the table
salt involved is substantially illustrated by one of the
Company's exhibits, from which we find:
Number
Cases purchased
customers
1-500 ...................................
3, 643
501-4,999 . ..............................
343
5,000-10,000 .............................
35
10,000-49,999 ............................
14
5
50,000 and over ..........................

Discount
per cse
0
.0.

.10
.10
.15

It thus appears that out of approximately 4,000 customers only 54 receive either of these two quota discounts
in practice, and the larger one is available to only four
or five major chain store organizations. The quota discounts allowed a customer are not related to any apparent
difference in handling costs but are based solely on the
volume of his purchases, which in turn depends largely
on the volume of his sales, and these in turn are surely

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
JACKSON,

J., (issenting in part.

334 U. S.

influenced by his lowered costs which he can reflect in
his retail prices.
I agree that these facts warrant a prima facie inference
of discrimination and sustain a finding of discrimination
unless the Company, which best knows why and how
these discounts are arrived at and which possesses all
the data as to costs, comes forward with a justification.
I agree, too, that the results of this system on respondent's customer list is enough to warrant the inference
that the effects "may be substantially to lessen competition or tend to create a monopoly."
Even applying the stricter test of probability, I think
the inference 9 f adverse effect on competition is warranted by the facts as to the quota discounts. It is
not merely probable but I think it is almost inevitable
that the further ten-cent or fifteen-cent per case differential in net price of salt between the large number of
small merchants and the small number of very large
merchants, accelerates the trend of the former towards
extinction, and of the latter towards monopoly.
However, a very different problem is presented by the
differential of 10 cents per case when delivered in carload
lots. This carload price applies to various small purchasers who pool their orders to make a carload shipment
and to all who pick up their orders, no'inatter how small,
at the company warehouses which are maintained in ten
cities. The evidence is that less than 1/10 of 1% of the
respondent's total salt business fail to get the benefit
of this carload-lot discount.
It does not seem to me that one can fairly draw the
inference that competition probably is affected by the
carload-lot discount. Indeed, the discount is so small in
proportion to, price, salt is so small an item in wholesale
or retail business and in the consumer's budget that I
should think it farfetched even to find it reasonably pos-

TRADE COMM'N v. MORTON SALT CO.
37

JACKSON,

61

J., dissenting in part.

sible that competition would be substantially affected.
Hence, the discount, whether more or less than the exact
savings in handling, would not fall under condemnation
of the statute. The incidence of this discount on customers is not arbitrarily determined by the volume of
their business but depends upon an obvious difference in
handling and delivery costs.
The Commission has forbidden respondent to continue
this carload-lot differential. The Commission has no
power to prescribe prices, so that it can order only that
the differential be eliminated. Unless competitive conditions make, it impossible, the respondent's self-interest
would dictate that it abolish the discount and maintain
the higher base price, rather than make the discount
universally applicable. The result would be to raise the
price of salt 10 cents per case to 99:9% of respondent's
customers because 1/10 of 1% were not in a position to
accept carload shipments. This is a quite different effect
than the elimination of the quota discount.
It seems to me that a discount which gives a lowered
cost to so large a proportion of respondent's customers and
is withheld only from those whose conditions of delivery
obviously impose greater handling costs, does not permit
the same inferences of effect on competition as the quota
discounts which reduce costs to the few only and that
on a basis which ultimately is their size.
The two types of discount involved here seem to me
to fall under different purposes of the Act and to require
different conclusions of fact as to effect on competition.
Accordingly, I should sustain the court below insofar as
it sets aside the cease and desist order as to carload-lot
discounts.

