OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

334 U. S.

whether the Illinois Supreme Court intended to rest the
judgment herein on an adequate independent state

ground or whether decision of the claim under the
Fourteenth Amendment was necessary to the judgment
rendered.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS are of

the opinion that the judgment should be reversed.
HEDGEBETH v. NORTH CAROLINA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NORTH CAROLINA.

No. 674.

Argued April 27, 1948.-Decided June 14, 1948.

1. The state supreme court having affirmed dismissal of a habeas
corpus proceeding involving a claim of federal constitutional right
on the ground that the full record was not before it, the writ of
certiorari granted to review that judgment is dismissed because
the judgment can rest on an adequate non-federa' ground. P. 807.
2. A state prisoner's rights under the Federal Constitution must be
pursued in accordance with the state procedure or, in default of
relief by available state procedure, by a new claim of denial of
federal right for want of such relief. P. 807.
228 N. C. 259, 45 S. E. 2d 563, certiorari dismissed.

Petitioner sued in a state court for habeas corpus to
secure release from imprisonment under a conviction al-

leged to have denied his federal constitutional rights. A
judgment dismissing the writ was affirmed by the state
supreme court. 228 N. C. 259, 45 S. E. 2d 563. This
Court granted certiorari. 333 U. S. 854. Dismissed,

p. 807.
By special leave of Court, Wilford L. Whitley, Jr., pro
hac vice, argued the cause and filed a brief for petitioner.

Ralph Moody, Assistant Attprney General of North
Carolina, argued the cause for respondent. With him

on the brief was Harry McMullan, Attorney General, and
T. W. Bruton, Assistant Attorney General.

HEDGEBETH v. NORTH CAROLINA.
806

807

Opinion of the Court.

PER CURIAM.

After a conviction for robbery, petitioner sued out a
writ of habeas corpus in a Superior Court of North Carolina claiming that the sentence he is serving involved
a denial of his rights under the Fourteenth Amendment,
The writ was dismissed and the dismissal affirmed by
the Supreme Court of North Carolina. 228 N. C. 259,
45 S. E. 2d 563. If petitioner's allegations, with supporting affidavits, in the habeas corpus proceedings controlled the issue before us, they would establish circumstances that make the right to assistance of counsel an
ingredient of the Due Process Clause. While the Supreme Court of North Carolina recognized the right ofan accused to the benefit of counsel under appropriate
circumstances, it held that in the proceedings on the
habeas corpus the trial court had before it not merely
the petitioner's allegations but "the oral testimony of the
sheriff, which was not sent up." In short, there was
before the North Carolina Supreme Court only a partial
record of the proceedings in the Superior Court. In
reviewing a judgment of a state court, we are bound
by the record on which that judgment was based. Since
the North Carolina Supreme Court went on the ground
that it did not have the full record before it, we are
constrained to dismiss this writ because the judgment
below can rest on a non-federal ground. Petitioner's
rights under the Federal Constitution must be pursued
according to the procedural requirements of North Carolina or, in default of relief by available North Carolina
proceedings, by a new claim of denial of due process for
want of such relief. Foster v. Illinois, 332 U. S. 134,
139.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE are

of the opinion that the judgment should be reversed.

