804

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

LOFTUS v. ILLINOIS.
CERTIORARI

No. 59.

TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF ILLINOIS.

Argued April 26, 1948.-Decided June 14,1948.

In the circumstances of this case, the cause is continued for an
appropriate period to enable this Court to be advised without
ambiguity whether the state supreme court intended to rest its
judgment herein on an adequate indeliendent state ground or
whether decision of the claim of denial of federal constitutional
right was necessary to the judgment rendered. Pp. 904--806.

Petitioner, by an original writ of error in the state
supreme court, challenged the validity of four judgments
of conviction in a circuit court of the State. The state
supreme court affirmed the judgments. 395 I1. 479, 70
N. E. 2d 573. This Court granted certiorari. 333 U. S.
831. Cause continued, pp. 805-806.
Henry H. Fowler argued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioner.
William C. Wines, Assistant Attorney General of Illinois, argued the cause for respondent. With him on the
brief was George F. Barrett,Attorney General.
PER CURIAM.
By way of an original writ of error in the Supreme Court
of Illinois, petitioner challenged the validity of four convictions in a circuit court of that State. The Illinois
Supreme Court affirmed the judgments, 395 Ill. 479, 70
N. E. 2d 573. We brought the case here, 333 U. S.831,
because of a serious claim that petitioner was denied the
assistance of counsel under circumstances which constitute a disregard of the safeguards to which he was entitled under the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
*The Illinois Supreme Court disposed of this claim on
the basis of the requirements of Illinois law. If the Illi-

LOFTUS v. ILLINOIS.
804

Opinion of the Court.

nois decision was an adjudication of the rights to which
the petitioner was entitled under the Due Process Clause,
we would be constrained to hold that he had brought
himself within our governing decisions. In his oral argument here, however, the Attorney General of the State
insisted that the circumstances on which petitioner relies
in claiming denial of a right under the United States
Constitution were not properly before the Supreme Court
of Illinois on the Illinois writ of error, but must be pursued in Illinois by habeas corpus. The Attorney General
relies for his view of the local law-upon two recent opinions of the Illinois Supreme Court, People v. Wilson, 399
Ill. 437, 78 N. E. 2d 514, and People v. Shofiner, 400 Ill.
174, 79 N. E. 2d 200. Both these opinions certainly
recognize that the right to counsel of indigent accused
may, under relevant circumstances, be part of the due
process which the Fourteenth Amendment guarantees.
If, as a matter of local procedure, Illinois chooses to
allow a federal right, such as the present record presents,
to be vindicated by habeas corpus in its Illinois scope,
but does not make available the Illinois writ of error, that
is for Illinois to say and not for us to deny.
Even though our reading of the record and of Illinois
law might give us a different understanding, we have had
too great difficulty in ascertaining what is the appropriate
Illinois procedure for raising claims of infringement of
federal rights to reject the Attorney General's submission
regarding Illinois procedural law. See, e. g., Marino v.
Ragen, 332 U. S. 561. If the Attorney General is correct and petitioner sought to raise even a valid federal
claim by way of an unavailable Illinois remedy, we have
of course a judgment that rests on a non-federal ground,
calling for dismissal of our writ. In this state of uncertainty, we follow our precedent in Herb v. Pitcairn, 324
U. S. 117. See also Phyle v. Dully, 334 U. S.431.
Accordingly, we shall continue this cause for an appropriate period to enable us to be advised without ambiguity

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

334 U. S.

whether the Illinois Supreme Court intended to rest the
judgment herein on an adequate independent state

ground or whether decision of the claim under the
Fourteenth Amendment was necessary to the judgment
rendered.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS are of

the opinion that the judgment should be reversed.
HEDGEBETH v. NORTH CAROLINA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NORTH CAROLINA.

No. 674.

Argued April 27, 1948.-Decided June 14, 1948.

1. The state supreme court having affirmed dismissal of a habeas
corpus proceeding involving a claim of federal constitutional right
on the ground that the full record was not before it, the writ of
certiorari granted to review that judgment is dismissed because
the judgment can rest on an adequate non-federa' ground. P. 807.
2. A state prisoner's rights under the Federal Constitution must be
pursued in accordance with the state procedure or, in default of
relief by available state procedure, by a new claim of denial of
federal right for want of such relief. P. 807.
228 N. C. 259, 45 S. E. 2d 563, certiorari dismissed.

Petitioner sued in a state court for habeas corpus to
secure release from imprisonment under a conviction al-

leged to have denied his federal constitutional rights. A
judgment dismissing the writ was affirmed by the state
supreme court. 228 N. C. 259, 45 S. E. 2d 563. This
Court granted certiorari. 333 U. S. 854. Dismissed,

p. 807.
By special leave of Court, Wilford L. Whitley, Jr., pro
hac vice, argued the cause and filed a brief for petitioner.

Ralph Moody, Assistant Attprney General of North
Carolina, argued the cause for respondent. With him

on the brief was Harry McMullan, Attorney General, and
T. W. Bruton, Assistant Attorney General.

