OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

334 V. S.

States v. Crescent Amusement Co., supra, pp. 189-190;
Schine Chain Theatres v. United States, post, p. 110;
United States v. ParamountPictures,Inc., post, p. 131.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER dissents, substantially for
the reasons set forth in the opinion of the District Court,
68 F. Supp. 180.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took
no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

SCHINE CHAIN THEATRES, INC.
UNITED STATES.

ET AL. V.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 10.

Argued December 15, 1947.-Decided May 3,1948.

The United States sued to restrain violations of §§ 1 and 2 of the
Sherman Act by a parent corporation, three of its officers and
directors and five of its subsidiaries, which owned or had a financial
interest in a large chain of motion picture theatres located in six
states. The District Court found that they had used the combined
buying power of the entire circuit to negotiate master agreements
with the major film distributors, which had the effect of depriving
competitors of first- and second-run films; obtained from the
distributors unreasonable "clearances," long-term agreements for
rentals of films and other concessions which gave them unreasonable
advantages over competitors; threatened to build theatres or to
open closed theatres in order to stop or prevent competition; cut
admission prices; obtained from competitors whom they bought
out agreements not to compete for long terms of years, which
sometimes extended to towns other than those in which the purchased theatres operated; and thus conspired with each other and
with the eight major film distributors to violate §§ 1 and 2 of
the Sherman Act. The District Court enjoined these practices
and ordered defendants to divest themselves of certain theatres.
Defendants appealed. Held:

SCHINE THEATRES v. UNITED STATES.
110

111

Syllabus.

1. In negotiating- for films, the combining of theatres in towns
in which the circuit had a monopoly with those in towns in which
it had competitors was a restraint of trade and a use of monopoly
power in violation of §§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act. United
States v. Griffith, ante, p. 100. P. 116.
2. The concerted action of the parent company, its subsidiaries,
and certain of the parent company's officers and directors in that
endeavor was a conspiracy which was not immunized by reason
of the fact that the members were closely affiliated rather than
independent. P. 116.
3. The negotiations which appellants had with the distributors
and which resulted in the execution of master agreements between
the distributors and exhibitors brought the distributors into the
unlawful combination with the defendants. P. 116.
4. A conspiracy between the exhibitors and each of the named
distributors having been established by independent evidence, interoffice letters and memoranda between officials of the distributors
were admissible in evidence against all conspirators as declarations
of some of the associates, so far as they were in furtherance of
the unlawful project. Pp. 116-117.
5. Detailed challenges to certain findings on which the District
Court based its holding that appellants had violated the Act are
examined and the findings are sustained (pp. 117-124), except in the
following respects:
(a) The finding that appellants obtained film-rental concessions not made available to independent operators is not intelligible
and is set aside, in order that it may be clarified on remand of
the cause. P. 120.
(b) A bare finding that appellants at times cut admission
prices without a showing that such action was in purpose or effect
employed as an instrument of monopoly power is not adequate
to support an injunction against price cutting. Pp. 120-121.
(c) The findings as to "unreasonable clearances" are set aside,
in order that the District Court may make further findings which
reflect an appraisal of the complex factors bearing on the question
of reasonableness. See United States v. Paramount Pictures, Inc.,
post, p. 131. Pp. 121-124.
6. Detailed objections to those parts of the decree which enjoined
appellants from specified acts or practices are considered and
the decree is sustained (pp. 125-126), -except in the following
respects:
(a) To the extent that provisions of the decree are directed
to practices reflect i in findings set aside by this Court, they

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Statement of the Case.

334 U. S.

must be re-examined by the District Court on remand of the
cause. P. 125.
(b) The general injunction against "monopolizing" first- and
second-run films is set aside, since the precise practices found to
have violated the Act should be specifically enjoined. Pp. 125-126.
7. The provisions of the decree which require appellants to divest
themselves of certain theatres are set aside so that the District
Court can make the findings necessary for an appropriate decree.
Pp. 126-130.
(a) In this type of case, an injunction against future violations
is not adequate to protect the public interest, and divestiture or
dissolution is an essential feature of the decree. P. 128.
(b) Divestiture or dissolution must take account of the present
and future conditions of the particular industry as well as past
violations. P. 128.
(c) It serves several functions: (1) It puts an end to the
combination or conspiracy'when that is itself the violation; (2) it
deprives the defendants of the benefits of their conspiracy; and
(3) it is designed to break up or render impotent the monopoly
power which violates the Act. Pp. 128-129.
(d) In applying this remedy, it is essential for the District
Court to determine what were the fruits of the unlawful conspiracy and to consider what is the best way of requiring appellants
to surrender them. P. 129.
(e) Even after appellants are deprived of the fruits of their
conspiracy, it will be necessary for the District Court to consider
whether appellants' theatre circuit will still constitute a monopoly
power of the kind which the Act condemns, in spite of the restrictive provisions of the decree. Pp. 129-130.
8. The provisions of the decree providing for the dissolution
of the pooling agreements, the prohibition against buying or booking films for theatres in which appellants have no financial interest,
and the restriction on future acquisitions of theatres, are approved.
Pp. 127-130.
63 F. Supp. 229, affirmed in part and reversed in part.

In a suit by the United States to restrain violations of
§§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act by a large chain of motion
picture exhibitors, the District Court entered a decree
enjoining certain practices and requiring the chain to

SCHINE THEATRES v. UNITED STATES.
110

113

Opinion of the Court.

divest itself of certain theatres. 63 F. Supp. 229. On
appeal to this Court, affirmed in part, reversed in part,
and remanded, p. 130.
Bruce Bromley argued the cause for appellants. With
him on the brief were Willard S. McKay, Alfred McCormack and Richard T. Davis. Harold R. Medina, Arthur
Garfield Hays and Osmond K. Fraenkel were also of
counsel.
Robert L. Wright argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
Perlman,Assistant Attorney General Sonnett, Stanley M.
Silverberg and PhilipMarcus.
Milton Pollack filed a brief for Lawrence J. Carkey
et al., as amici curiae, urging affirmance;
MR. JUSTICE DoUGLAs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a companion case to No. 64, United States v.
Griffith, ante, p. 100, and is here by way of appeal
from the District Court. The appellants, who were defendants below, are a parent company, three of its officers
and directors, and five of its wholly owned subsidiaries-to whom we refer collectively as Schine. As of May 19,
1942, Schine owned or had a financial interest in a chain
of approximately 148 motion picture theatres 1 located
in 76 towns in 6 states,' the greater portion being
78 theatres in 41 towns in New York and 36 theatres
in 17 towns in Ohio. Of the 76 towns, 60 were closed
towns, i. e., places where Schine had the only theatre or

I These

figures do not include 18 which were closed and had been

or were being converted to other uses.
2

New York *78), Ohio (36), Kentucky (18),
Delaware (2), Virginia (2).

Maryland (12),

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

all the theatres in town.' This chain was acquired beginning in 1920 and is the largest independent theatre
circuit in the country. Since 1931 Schine acquired 118
theatres. Since 1928 the closed towns increased by 56.
In 1941 there were only three towns in which Schine's
competitors were playing major film products.
The United States sued to prevent and restrain appellants from violating §§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act. 26
Stat. 209, 50 Stat. 693, 15 U. S. C. §§ 1, 2. The complaint charged that the Schine interests by pooling their
entire circuit buying power in the negotiation of films
from the distributors so as to combine its closed and open
towns got advantages for itself and imposed restrictions
on its competitors which otherwise would not have been
possible. It charged that the distributors granted certain
favors to Schine which were withheld from Schine's competitors, e. g., giving Schine the first run, refusing at times
second runs to Schine's competitors, charging Schine with
lower rentals than it charged others, licensing to Schine
films in excess of Schine's reasonable requirements.
The complaint also charged that Schine had forced
or attempted to force competitors out of business and
where competitors would not sell out to Schine had
threatened to build or had built an opposition theatre,
had threatened to deprive or had deprived competitors
of a desirable film or run, had cut admission prices,
and had engaged in other unfair practices. In these
and other ways it was charged that Schine had used its
circuit buying power to maintain its monopoly and to
3
Schine had the only theatre in each of 21 towns, both theatres
in 21 towns that had two each, all theatres in 16 towns that had
three each, and all theatres in one town that had six theatres and
in another that had four theatres.
Of these theatres approximately 87 per cent are located in cities

or villages with populations under 25,000 and 60 per cent in cities
or villages with populations under 10,000.

SCHINE THEATRES v. UNITED STATES.
110

115

Opinion of the Court.

restrain trade. The conspiracy charged was between the
Schine defendants themselves and between them and the
distributors.
The District Court found that the appellants had conspired with each other and with the eight major film distributors ' to violate § 1 and § 2 of the Sherman Act. Its
findings may be summarized as follows:
The entire circuit buying power "was utilized to negotiate films for all the theatres from the distributors, the
negotiations ending in master agreements between a distributor and the exhibitor. This large buying power'
gave Schine the "opportunity to exert pressure on the
distributors to obtain preferences." Moreover, Schine by
combining its closed and open towns in its negotiations
for films was able "to dictate terms to the distributors."
Schine bought films for some theatres in which it had
no financial interest (but as respects most of which it
had an option to purchase). It also performed the service (under so-called pooling agreements) for groups of
theatres in which it and others were interested. Through
the use of such buying power Schine arbitrarily deprived
competitors of first- and second-run, pictures, was able in
many towns to secure unreasonable clearancesI year
after year of from 90 to 180 days, obtained long-term
agreements for rental of film (franchises) which gave it
preferences not given independent operators," and re' Fox, Loew, Paramount, RHO, Warner, Columbia, Universal, and
United Artists.
5 In tlo 1939-1940 season Schine paid $1,647,000 to six distributors
in film rental.
6 By clearance is meant the period of time agreed upon which
must elapse between runs of the same feature within a particular
area or in specified theatres.
I The District Court used "independents" or "independent operators" to mean competitors other than the exhibitor-distributors.
Schine, of course, is an independent circuit, as that term is used in
the industry.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

ceived more advantageous concessions from the distributors respecting admission prices than competitors were
able to get. Schine made threats to build or to open
closed theatres in order to force sales of theatres in various towns or to prevent entry by an independent operator. Schine cut admission prices. Schine obtained
from competitors whom it bought out agreements not
to compete for long terms of years which agreements at
times extended to other towns as well. Schine obtained
film-rental concessions not made available to independents. The District 'Court entered a decree enjoining
these practices and requirink a divestiture by Schine of
various of its theatres. 63 F. Supp. 229.
First. For the reasons stated in United States v. Griffith, ante, p. 100, the combining of the open and closed
towns for the negotiation of films for the circuit was a restraint of trade and the use of monopoly power in violation of § 1 and § 2 of the Act. The concerted action of the
parent company, its subsidiaries, and the named officers
and directors in that endeavor was a conspiracy which was
not immunized by reason of the fact that the members
were closely affiliated rather than independent. See
United States v. Yellow Cab Co., 332 U. S. 218, 227;
United States v. Crescent Amusement Co., 323 U. S. 173.
The negotiations which Schine had with the distributors
resulted in the execution of master agreements between
the distributors and exhibitors. This brought the distributors into unlawful combinations with the Schine
defendants. See United States v. Paramount Pictures,
Inc., post, p. 131. The course of business makes plain that
the commerce affected was interstate. United States v.
Crescent Amusement Co., supra,pp. 180, 183-184.
Second. Appellants object to admission in evidence of
numerous inter-office communications between officials
of the distributors with whom Schine dealt. The District Court placed considerable reliance on them in mak-

SCHINE THEATRES v. UNITED STATES.
110

117

Opinion of the Court.

ing its findings. We will advert later to the use of these
documents to prove the unreasonableness of clearances.
It is sufficient at this point to say that since a conspiracy
between Schine and each of the named distributors was
established by independent evidence, these inter-office
letters and memoranda were admissible against all conspirators as declarations of some of the associates so far as
they were in furtherance of the unlawful project. Hitchman Coal & Coke Co. v. Mitchell, 245 U. S. 229, 249;
United States v. Crescent Amusement Co., supra, p. 184;
United States v. Gypsum Co., 333 U. S.364, 393.
Third. Appellants make detailed challenges to many of
the other findings of the District Court on which it based
its holdings that appellants violated the Act.
(1) They vigorously attack the findings that Schine
arbitrarily deprived independents of first- and second-run
pictures. Their chief contention is that there is no support for the finding of arbitrary action on the part of
Schine, that Schine did not buy pictures beyond its needs
in order to keep them away from its competitors, that any
successful purchaser of a first- or second-run picture has
an exclusive privilege that necessarily deprives competitors of the film for the period of the run, and that any
advantage which Schine obtained in this regard was the
result of the operation of forces of competition.
As we read the evidence underlying this finding, it was
the use of Schine's monopoly power-represented by combining the buying power of the open and closed townswhich enabled it to obtain that which its competitors
could not obtain. Deprivation of competitors of firstand second-run pictures in that way was indeed arbitrary in the sense that it was the product of monopoly
power, not of competitive forces. That is the construction we give the finding of the District Court; and as
so construed it is supported by substantial evidence.
There may be exceptions in the case of some subsidiary

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

findings. But we do not stop to relate them. For even
if we lay them aside as clearly erroneous for lack of support in the evidence, the conclusion is irresistible that
Schine so used its monopoly power to gain advantages
and preferences which, on a purely competitive basis,
it could not have achieved.
(2) Defense of the long-term film-rental agreementsthe franchises-is made on the ground that they were accepted methods of doing business in the industry,' that
they were favored by distributors as devices to stabilize
their end of the business and to save expense, and that
they were not chosen by Schine as instruments to suppress
competition. But it seems to us apparent that their use
served to intensify the impact of Schine's monopoly power
on its competitors. For when Schine's buying power was
used to acquire films produced by a distributor for two or
three years rather than for one year alone, it plainly
strengthened through the exercise of monopoly power such
dominant position as Schine had over each of its competitors.
Appellants also challenge the finding that Schine obtained preferences through the franchises, in addition to
long-term supplies of pictures, which were not granted
independent operators. One of these preferences was
found to be the unfair and inequitable clearance provisions; another, special film-rental concessions. We will
consider these later. The other aspects of the findings we
do not stop to analyze. For the franchise agreements as
employed by Schine are unreasonable restraints bf trade
for the reasons stated; and they must be permanently ens A consent order was entered in the present case on May 19, 1942,
which provided, inter alia, that appellants would not enter into any
agreement licensing films released by any distributor during a period
of more than one year and that all agreements in existence having
a longer term should be void as to all films released after the thirtieth
day following the date of the consent order.

SCHINE THEATRES v. UNITED STATES.
110

119

Opinion of the Court.

joined, even though we assume their collateral aspects are
not accurately described by the District Court and so may
not be oondemned.
(3) Appellants challenge the finding that Schine made
threats to build theatres or to open closed ones in order to
force sales of theatres in various towns or to prevent entry
by an independent operator. There are inaccuracies in
some of the subsidiary findings. There are episodes
which are susceptible of two interpretations, one wholly
innocent and the other unlawful. There are still other
episodes which have the unmistakable earmarks of the use
of m6nopoly power with intent to expand an empire and
to restrain competition. On the whole we think the
District Court was justified in drawing the inference of
unlawful purpose from the ambiguous episodes and that
those coupled with the others are adequate to support
these findings of the District Court.
(4) We reach the same result as respects the agreements not to compete which Schine exacted from competitors whom it bought out. It is not enough that the
agreements may be valid under local law. Even an otherwise lawful device may be used as a weapon in restraint
of trade or in an effort to monopolize a part of trade or
commerce. Agreements not to compete have at times
been used for that unlawful purpose. See United States
v. American Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106, 174; United
States v. Crescent Amusement Co., supra, p. 181. If we
had here only agreements not to compete, the inferences
drawn by the District Court might not be warranted.
But in the setting of this record, and against the background of Schine's, other monopolistic practices, it seems
to us that the District Court might infer, that the
requisite purpose was present and that these agreements
were additional weapons in Schine's arsenal of power
through the use of which its monopoly was sought to be
extended.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

(5) The finding that Schine obtained film-rental concessions not made available to independent operators is
not intelligible to us. For the District Court went on to
state that "These provisions were also in contracts with
independents." How those concessions constitute a restraint of trade is therefore not apparent. We set aside
this finding so that it may be clarified on remand of the
cause.
(6) There is challenge to the findings that Schine's
rental agreements contained minimum admission prices,
or minimum admission prices lower than those to be
charged by the independent operators for subsequent
runs, or relieved Schine of requirements for minimum
admission prices though imposing them on its competitors. There is evidence to support the findings that
minimum prices were fixed. It is well settled that the
fixing of minimum prices, like other types of price fixing,
is unlawful per se. United States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil
Co., 310 U. S. 150. The findings that Schine was either
granted minimum admission prices more favorable than
those required of its competitors, or that Schine, unlike
its competitors, was relieved of all requirements for minimum prices, are also supported by evidence. It is said
that these provisions of the agreements were not adhered
to. But since they did exist, it is not for us to speculate
as to what force or sanction they may have had.
(7) There is also challenge to the finding that Schine
cut admission prices. This seems uncontroverted. But
price cutting without more is not a violation of the Sherman Act. It is indeed a competitive practice which this
record shows to have been common in the industry. It
may be used in violation of the Act. Thus it may be the
instrument of monopoly power to eliminate competitors
or to bring them to their knees. But since it is not
unlawful per se, facts and circumstances must be adduced
to show that it was in purpose or effect employed as an

SCHINE THEATRES v. UNITED STATES.

121

Opinion of the Court.

110

instrument of monopoly power. Here there is nothing
except a bare finding that at times Schine cut admission
prices. That finding is not sufficiently discriminating to
withstand analysis and is not adequate to support an
injunction hgainst price cutting.
(8) The finding as to unreasonable clearances presents
rather large issues. We have elaborated the point in
United States v. Paramount Pictures, Inc., post, p. 131,
and need not repeat what is said there. Clearance is an
agreement by a distributor not to exhibit a film nor to license others to do so within a given area and for a stated
period after the last date of the showing of the film by the
licensee with whom the agreement is made.' It is, in
other words, an agreement by a distributor to license films
only for specified successive dates. It is in part designed
to protect the value of the license which is granted.
While it thus protects the income of the first exhibitor,
there is no contention that clearance agreements are
per se unlawful restraints on competition by reason of the
effect they may have on admission prices or otherwise.
All the District Court purported to condemn, and all the
appellee maintains is unlawful, are "unreasonable clearances." If reasonableness is the test, the factors which
bear on it would appear to be numerous. ° The findings
and opinion of the District Court, however, do not greatly
9 See note 6, supra.
10 See Bertrand, Evans & Blanchard, The Motion Picture Industry-A Pattern of Control 40-41 (TNEC Monograph No. 43,
1941):
"The establishment of clearance schedules is an intricate procedure.
It involves a complex bargaining process and the balance of a variety
of opposing economic interests. It may be stated initially that the
primary objective of the distributor is, of course, to maximize his
total revenue from each picture. This aim gives him a very direct
interest 'inclearance periods. The higher rental fees paid by the
prior-run exhibitor are directly conditioned on the extent of the
protection which he is granted, and in general the longer the clearance
792588 0-48-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

illuminate the problem.

334 U. S.

What standards or criteria of

unreasonableness were applied does not clearly appear.
There are, however, in some of the subsidiary findings
in this case a few clues as to the basis used by the District
Court in classifying clearances as unreasonable. Thus it
said that Schine got some clearances "over towns in which
Schine did not operate." But that is irrelevant to the
problem of reasonableness of clearances, since by definition clearances run to both theatres and towns not owned
by him who has the clearance.

The District Court also found that clearances "were
given over towns over which there had been no previous
clearance." But that without more would not make a
clearance "unreasonable." The District Court found that
Schine got clearances over "some towns distant from 10 to
upwards of 20 miles" and that clearances were also obtained over "outside towns of comparably small populaperiod before subsequent showing, the higher the rental fee the priorrun exhibitor will pay.
"On the other hand, the distributor's revenue from subsequent-run
exhibition is also important to him; this income may mean the
difference between black or red ink on his ledgers. But the longer
the clearance period, the smaller will be these returns-not only
because more customers will have attended the prior showing rather
than wait for subsequent exhibition, but also because the effects
of the advertising and exploitation efforts made when the picture
was released will have been vitiated over this time. In general, the
greater the total box-office return earned by a film in all showings,
the greater will be the distributor's revenue.
"The relation between run, clearance and zoning, admission price,
seating capacity, and rental fees is indeed a complex one. The range
covered by these factors is indicated by this fact: a license fee amounting to many thousands of dollars may be paid for the first showing
of a film in a large metropolitan theater, and within a year the same
film may be exhibited in some small theater in the same city for
a fee of less than $20."

SCHINE THEATRES v. UNITED STATES.
110

123

Opinion of the Court.

tion, distant so far that no clearance is justified." If the
basis for these findings is that the towns were in different
competitive areas, it would come closest to revealing the
standard used by the District Court in determining
whether the clearances were or were not reasonable, unless
possibly it be the finding that in a few instances Schine
got clearances over towns where there were no theatres.
The District Court cites instances of clearances which
in its view were illegal because unreasonable as to time.
But some of these turn out to be situations where clearances were granted over towns where Schine had the
only theatre, in town. So perhaps the District Court
used as a basis for some of its findings of unreasonable
clearances the absence of any competition between the
theatres in question. But as to that we can only guess
in each case and then wonder whether our guess was
correct, because appellee suggests that one vice of Schine's
clearances was that they ran not to specified theatres
but to specified towns. We are, however, left somewhat
in the dark whether the District Court followed that
theory or made the reasonableness of clearances turn on
whether or not the theatres affected were in different
competitive areas.
Appellee also suggests that proof of the unreasonableness of Schine's clearances is that their periods were almost uniformly the same even though there were wide
variations in the condition and size of theatres and of the
type of pictures played in the various theatres. But we
are given no clue in the findings whether that was the
view of the District Court. On its face it seems more
like an attempt of the appellee to show what findings
could have been made on the basis of the record had some
discrimination been made in appraising the evidence.
Appellee seems to argue that standards of reasonableness can be dispensed with by reason of statements in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

inter-office memoranda of the distributors that many of
Schine's clearances were "unreasonable." On the matter
of clearances, however, the interests of distributors and
exhibitors are not necessarily identical. For the selfinterest of exhibitors which would call for long clearances
would militate against the best interests of distributors.11
So it is not clear that these declarations can properly
be said to fall within the scope of the unlawful project
which the two groups were sponsoring. Cf. Pinkerton
v. United States, 328 U. S. 640, 647-648. But however
that may be, these statements do not advance us very
far with the problem because they too fail to give specific
content to the concept of unreasonable as applied to
clearances.
As a last resort appellee seeks to sustain these findings on the ground that Schine got at least some of its
clearances by refusing to make any deal for the circuit
unless its terms were met. But any clearance so obtained,
though otherwise reasonable, would be unlawful, for it
would be the product of the exercise of monopoly power.
It is evident, however, that that was not the theory,
adopted by the District Court for it did not look to see
what clearances had been obtained in that manner.
The short of the matter is that since we do not know
for certain what the findings of the District Court on
clearances mean, they must be set aside. In doing so we
of course do not intimate here, any more than we do in
case of the other findings we have set aside in the case,
that the record would not sustain findings adverse to
Schine. We only hold that before we can pass on the
questions tendered, findings on clearances must be made
which keflect an appraisal of the complex of factors bearing on this question of reasonableness. That is a function of the District Court.
See note. 10, supra.

SCHINE THEATRES v. UNITED STATES.
110

125

Opinion of the Court..

Fourth. The decree entered by the District Court enjoins appellants from specified acts or practices.12 To the
extent that these provisions are directed to practices reflected in findings which we set aside, they must be
re-examined by the District Court on remand of the
case.
Appellants object to the generality of the injunction
against "monopolizing" first- and second-run films.' The
This part of the decree provides:
"Each of the defendants is hereby enjoined and restrained:
"1. From monopolizing the supply of major first run films in any
situation where' there is a competing theatre suitable for first run
exhibition thereof and from monopolizing the supply of second run
film in any situation where there is a suitable theatre for second
run exhibition thereof.
"2. From demanding or receiving clearance over theatres operated
by others which unreasonably restricts their ability to compete with
a theatre owned or operated by a defendant corporation controlled
by it and from attempting to control the admission prices charged
by others by agreement with distributors, demands made upon distributors, or by any means whatsoever.
". From conditioning the licensing of films in any competitive
situation outside of Buffalo, New York, upon the licensing of films
in any other situation and from entering into any film franchise.
12

"5. From enforcing any existing agreements heretofore entered
into (1) not to compete or (2) to.restrict the use of any real estate
to non-theatrical purposes.
. "6. From using any threats or deception as a means whereby a
competitor is induced to sell.
• "7. From continuing any contract, conspiracy or combination with
each other or with any other person which has the purpose or effect
of maintaining the exhibition or theatre monopolies of the defendants
or of preventing any other theatre or exhibitor from competing with
the defendants or any of them, and from entering into any similar
contract, conspiracy, or combination for the purpose or with the
effect of restraining or monopolizing trade and commerce between
the States."
13 See note 12, supra, paragraph 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

statutory requirement is that these injunctions "shall be
specific in terms, and shall describe in reasonable detail,
and not by reference to the bill of complaint or other
document, the act or acts sought to be restrained." 38
Stat. 738, 28 U. S. C. § 383. And see Fed. R. Civ. P.,
65 (d). We need not determine whether the provision
in question if read, as it must be, in light of the other
paragraphs of the decree (Swift & Co. v. United States,
276 U. S. 311, 328) would pass muster. For we think
the public interest requires that a more specific decree
be entered on this phase of the case. The precise practices found, to have violated the act should be specifically
enjoined.
We have considered the objections to the other parts
of the injunction (apart from provisions as to divestiture
which we discuss later) and find them without merit.
Fifth. The District Court included in its decree a divestiture provision adjudging that appellant companies be
"dissolved, realigned, or reorganized in their ownership
and control so that fair competition between them and
other theatres may be restored and thereafter maintained." The parties subsequently submitted various
plans and after hearings the one submitted by the Department of Justice was approved with modifications. The
plan does not provide for the dissolution of the Schine circuit through the separation of the several affiliated corporations as was done in United States v. Crescent Amusement Co., supra, pp. 188-189. It keeps the circuit intact
in that sense but requires Schine to sell certain theatres.
The plan requires Schine to sell its interest in all but one
theatre of its selection in each 'of 33 towns, all but two
in each of four larger towns, and two of four theatres
in Rochester, New York.'4 Schine is to be divested of
It also requires Schine to sell specific theatres remaining unsold
under the consent decree of May 19, 1942.
14

SCHINE THEATRES v. UNITED STATES.
110

127

Opinion of the Court.

more than 50 of its theatres. The towns affected are
over 40 out of the 70-odd in which Schine is operating.5
The one-theatre towns of Schine are unaffected.
The decree also dissolves the pooling agreements. A
trustee is appointed to make the sales which are ordered.
Schine is prohibited from acquiring any financial interest
in additional theatres "except after an affirmative showing that such acquisition will not unreasonably restrain
competition." Schine is ordered not to buy or book films
for any theatre other than those in which it owns a
financial interest. The District Court concluded that
this program of divestiture was necessary in order to restore "free enterprise and open competition amongst al'
branches of the motion picture industry."
As we have noted, the District Court did not follow the
procedure of United States v. Crescent Amusement Co.,
supra, and order the dissolution of the combination of the
affiliated corporations. Schine presented such a plan and
it was rejected. That plan contemplated the division of
the Schine theatres among three separate corporations,
with members of the Schine family owning each corporation. The District Court rejected that plan because it
did not furnish such separation of ownership as would
assure discontinuance of the practices which had constituted violations of the Act. The District Court did not
pursue further the prospect of dismemberment of the
Schine circuit through separation of the theatres into geographical groupings under separate and unaffiliated ownerships. Nor do the findings reflect an inquiry to determine what theatres had been acquired by Schine through
methods which violate the Act. So far as the findings
reveal, the theatres which are ordered divested may be
properties which in whole or in part were lawfully ac"'Schine had withdrawn from five towns pursuant to the consent
order of May 19, 1942.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

quired; and theatres which Schine is permitted to retain
may, so far as the findings reveal, be ones which it obtained as the result of tactics violating the Act.
In this type of case we start from the premise that an
injunction against future violations is not adequate to
protect the public interest. If all that was done was to
forbid a repetition of the illegal conduct, those who had
unlawfully built their empires could preserve them intact.
They could retain the full dividends of their monopolistic
practices and profit from the unlawful restraints of trade
which they had inflicted on competitors. Such a course
would make enforcement of the Act a futile thing unless
perchance the United States moved in at the incipient
stages of the unlawful project. For these reasons divestiture or dissolution is an essential feature of these decrees.
See United States v. Crescent Amusement Co., supra, p.
189, and cases cited.
To require divestiture of theatres unlawfully acquired
is not to add to the penalties that Congress has provided
in the antitrust laws. Like restitution it merely deprives
a defendant of the gains from his wrongful conduct. It
is an equitable remedy designed in the public interest to
undo what could have been prevented had the defendants
not outdistanced the government in their unlawful project. Nor is United States v. National Lead Co., 332 U. S.
319, 351-353, opposed to this view. For in that case
there was no showing that the plants sought to be divested
were either unlawfully acquired or used in a manner
violative of the antitrust laws.
Divestiture or dissolution must take account of. the
present and future conditions in the particular industry
as well ag past yiolations. It serves several functions:
(1) It puts an end to the combination or conspiracy when
that is itself- the violation. (2) It deprives the antitrust defendants of the benefits of their conspiracy.

SCHINE THEATRES v. UNITED STATES.
110

129

Opinion of the Court.

(3) It is designed to break up or render impotent the
monopoly power which violates the Act. See United
States v. Crescent Amusement Co., supra, pp. 188-190;
United States v. Griffith, ante, p. 100.
The last two phases of this problem are the ones presented in this case. But the District Court purported to
deal with only one of them. It did not determine what
dividends Schine had obtained from the conspiracy. In
United States v. Crescent Amusement Co., supra, pp. 181,
189, some of the affiliated corporations through which
that empire was built were products of the conspiracy.
Hence that fact without more justified the direction in
the decree to unscramble them. There are no findings
which would warrant such a course in this case. But an
even more direct method of causing appellants to surrender the gains from their conspiracy is to require them
to dispose of theatres obtained by practices which violate
the antitrust acts. We do not know what findings on
that score would be supported by the record, for the District Court did not address itself to the problem. The
upshot of the matter is that the findings do not reveal
what the rewards of the conspiracy were; and consequently the court did not consider what would be the
preferable way of causing appellants to surrender them.
The case must therefore be remanded so that the District
Court may make appropriate findings on this phase of
the case.
While such an inquiry is the starting point for determining to what extent divestiture should be ordered, the
matter does not end there. For it may be that even
after appellants are deprived of the fruits of their conspiracy, the Schine circuit might still constitute a monopoly power of the kind which the Act condemns (see
American Tobacco Co. v. United States, 328 U. S. 781, 809,
811), in spite of the restrictive provisions of the decree.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

Monopoly power is not condemned by the Act only when
it was unlawfully obtained. The mere existence of the
power to monopolize, together with the purpose or intent
to do so, constitutes an evil at which the Act is aimed.
United States v. Griffith, ante, p. 100; United States v.
Aluminum Co. of America, 148 F. 2d 416, 432. But
whether that condition will obtain in this case must await
the findings on the other phase of the case.
We accordingly set aside the divestiture provisions of
the decree so that the District Court can make the findings
necessary for an appropriate decree. We approve the
dissolution of the pooling agreements, the prohibition
against. buying or booking films for theatres in which
Schine has no financial interest, and the restriction on
future acquisitions of theatres. See United States v.
Crescent Amusement Co., supra, pp. 185-187. We do
not reach the question of the appointment of a trustee
to sell theatres as that merely implements the divestiture
provisions which must be reconsidered by the District
Court.
The judgment of the District Court is affirmed in part
and reversed in part and the cause is remanded to it for
proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took

no part in the consideration oy decision of the case.

