OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

334 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. ZAZOVE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 432.

Argued April 19, 1948.-Decided June 14, 1948.

1. Section 602 (h) (2) of the National Service Life Insurance Act
of. 1940 provides that insurance payable to a beneficiary who is
over 30 at the time of the insured's death shall be paid in equal
monthly installments for 120 months certain, with such payments
continuing during the remaining lifetime of the beneficiary. Regulation 3450 of the Veterans' Administration, issued as a construction
of § 602 (h) (2), provides that the amount of the monthly installmen.ts so payable shall be calculated in accordance with a schedule
based upon the beneficiary's age and the American Experience
Table of Mortality. The beneficiary of a National Service Life
Insurance policy, who was over 30 at the time of the insured's
death in 1943, sued to obtain monthly payments in an amount
which, over a period of 120 months, would equal the face amount,
of the policy plus interest. She contended that Regulation 3450
was not a proper construction of § 602 (h) (2). Held: The regulation is valid. Pp. 604-624.
2. Read in its entirety and with regard to the specialized, technical
sense in which some of its wording is generally employed in the
insurance field, § 602 (h) (2) is not so clear and free from ambiguity as to preclude the construction adopted by the Veterans'
Administration in Regillatiop 3450. Pp. 608-610.
3. In construing the provisions of an Act of Congress setting up
a system of national life insurance, only the intent of Congress
need be ascertained; the layman understanding of the policy holder
does not have the relevance that it has in the case of an ordinary
commercial insurance contract. Pp. 610-611.
4. It is not enough, however, that the regulation is not plainly
interdicted by the statute, for in § 608 of the Act, as amended,
Congress manifested an intent that regulations of the Veterans'
Administration be subjected to more than casual judicial scrutiny
to determine whether they are "not inconsistent" with the statute,
whether they are "necessary or appropriate" to carry out its
purposes, and whether they are "properly" issued. Pp. 611-612.
5. But when the respective assumptions and consequences of each
of the two alternative interpretations of § 602 (h) (2) presented

UNITED STATES v. ZAZOVE.
602

Statement of the Case.

in this case are tested against the legislative history and the statute
viewed in its entirety, it is clear that the one incorporated in Regulation 3450 is that intended by Congress. Pp. 612-624.
(a) Under a contrary interpretation of the statute, a beneficiary
over 30 would in most cases receive a far greater aggregate amount
than a beneficiary under 30. There is no indication that Congress
intended this sharp disparity of treatment, and it does not result
under the regulation. Pp. 612-616.
(b) Congress contemplated that the reserve fund to meet the
liabilities of National Service Life Insurance policies was to be
self-supporting, sustained by the premiums paid and by the yield
of premiums invested, except as to those exceptional items of
cost as to which the statute specifically provided that the Government would bear the financial burden. Under the construction
advanced by 'the beneficiary in this case, however, the Government's total liability would be increased to an extent requiring
either special Congressional appropriations or a substantial increase
in premium rates. The statute nowhere specifies that the Government should bear this huge cost, nor is there any basis for assuming
that Congress envisaged premium rates high enough to meet an
added liability of such proportions. Pp. 616-617.
(c) The practice in effect under United States Government Life
Insurance for World War I veterans and the long-established
practice of commercial insurance companies, which must be viewed
as part of the background of experience which the draftsmen of
§ 602 (h) (2) had in mind, both accord with the construction
embodied in Regulation 3450. Pp.617-619.
(d) The juxtaposition of § 602 (h) (2) with other provisions
indicating that actuarial principles were to be followed is also
significant. P. 620.
(e) The subsequent legislative history of the statute clearly
indicates Congressional approval of the construction put on § 602
(h) (2) by Regulation 3450. Pp. 620-624.
162 F. 2d 443, reversed.

In a suit by a beneficiary, the District Court sustained
the validity of Regulation 3450 of the Veterans' Administration as being in accord with § 602 (h) (2) of the
National Service Life Insurance Act of 1940. The Circuit
Court of Appeals reversed. 162 F. 2d 443. This Court
granted certiorari.

332 U. S. 835.

Reversed, p. 624.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the 'Court.

334 U. S.

Oscar H. Davis argued the cause for the United States.
With him on the brief were Solicitor General Perlman,
H. Graham Morison, Paul A. Sweeney, Melvin Richter
and PhilipElman.
Edward H. S. Martin argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief was John B. King.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE VINSON

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
We are called upon in this case to determine whether
Regulation 3450 of the Veterans' Administration' is in
accord with a proper construction of § 602 (h) (2) of the
National Service Life Insurance Act of 1940.2
Respondent, Tillie Zazove, was designated beneficiary
in a $5,000 contract of National Service Life Insurance.
The insured died in 1943, andthe named beneficiary filed
her claim for the insurance in the Veterans' Administration. Upon denial of the claim, suit was instituted in the
District Court for the Northern District of Illinois.3 The
District Court ruled, on its view of the facts, that Mrs.
Zazove did not stand in loco parentis to the soldier and
hence was not one of the persons who
could be made a
/ 4
beneficiary as provided by the statute. On appeal, the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit ruled
to the contrary and remanded for further proceedings.
156 F. 2d 24.
The issue remaining for determination by the District
Court upon remand was the validity of Regulation 3450.
it sustained the regulation as properly issued pursuant to
Fed. Reg. 1162, 1166, 38 C. F, R. 1941 Supp. § 10.3450.
Part I, Title VI of the Second Revenue Act of 1940, Act of
Oct. 8, 1940, c. 757, 54 Stat. 974, 1008, 38 U. S. C. §§ 801, 802
(h) (2).
3
Pursuant to § 617 of the Act, 38 U. S. C. § 817.
4 § 602 (g), 38 U. S. C. § 802 (g).
16

UNITED STATES v. ZAZOVE.
602

Opinion of the Court.

the National Service Life Insurance Act. On a second
appeal, the Circuit Court of Appeals, one judge dissenting,
reversed. 162 F. 2d 443. We granted certiorari to review the important question of statutory construction
involved. 332 U. S.835.
The basic statutory provision involved is § 602 (h) of
the National Service Life Insurance Act of 1940, which
provides that insurance issued under the Act "shall be
payable in the following manner:
"(1) If the beneficiary to whom payment is first
made is under thirty years of age at the time of
maturity, in two hundred and forty equal monthly
installments.
"(2) If the beneficiary to whom payment is first
made is thirty or more years of age at the time of
maturity, in equal monthly installments for one
hundred and twenty months certain, with such payments continuing during the remaining lifetime of
such beneficiary."
The Administrator, acting under the general rule-making power given him by the Act, ' promulgated Regulation
3450 (set forth in the margin)' shortly after the enactment
5Sec. 608, 38 U. S. C. § 808: "The Administrator, subject to the
general direction of the President, shall administer, execute and enforce the provisions of this chapter, shall have power to make such
rules and regulations, not inconsistent with the provisions of this
chapter, as are necessary or appropriate to carry out its purposes, and
shall decide all questions arising hereunder ..
6"Payment to first beneficiary. Upon due proof of the death of
the insured while a National Service Life Insurance policy is in force,
the monthly installments, without interest, which have accrued since
the death of the insured (the first installment being due on the date
.of death of the insured) and the monthly installments which there-'
after become payable in accordance with the provisions of the
policy, shall be paid to the beneficiary or beneficiaries entitled in
the following manner:
"(a) If the beneficiary to whom payment is first made is under

606

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
334 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the statute, to put § 602 (h) into operation. The regulation provides, for beneficiaries covered by clause (1),
that "payment shall be made in 240 equal monthly installments at the rate of $5.51 for each $1,000 of such insurance." The amount of the monthly installment is so
calculated that the sum of the 240 installments equals
the face value of the insurance plus 3% interest per
annum.
thirty years of age at the time of the death of the insured, payment
shall be made in 240 equal monthly installments at the rate of $5.51
for each $1,000 of such insurance.
"(b) If the beneficiary to whom payment is first made is thirty
or more years of age at the time of the death of the insured, payment
shall be made in equal monthly installments for 120 months certain,
with such payment continuing throughout the remaining lifetime
of such beneficiary. The amount of the monthly installment for
each $1,000 of insurance shall be determined by the age of the beneficiary as of last birthday at the time of the death of the insured,
in accordance with the following schedule based upon the American
Experience Table of Mortality and interest at the rate of 3 percentum per annum:
Amount of
each monthly
"Age of beneficiary at date
installment
of death of insured
30 ............................................ $3.97
40 ............................................

4 .50

50 ............................................

5.39

54 ...........................................

5. q

60 ............................................

6 .8 1

68 ............................................

8 .19

70 ............................................

8 .5 1

80 ..........................................

.

9. 55

UNITED STATES v. ZAZOVE.
602

Opinion of the Court.

It is the provision made by the regulation for first
beneficiaries covered by clause (2) that is in issue, since
the first beneficiary in this case, Mrs. Zazove, was more
than thirty years old when the policy matured. For such
beneficiaries, who are to receive payments for life with
120 payments certain, the regulation provides that the
"amount of the monthly installment for each $1,000
of
insurance shall be determined by the age of the beneficiary
as of last birthday at the time of the death of the insured,
in accordance with [a] schedule based upon the American
Experience Table of Mortality and interest at the rate
of 3 percenturn per annum . . . ." Accordingly, the size
of the monthly installment varies not merely with the face
value of the insurance policy but also with the age of the
first beneficiary, the latter factor being used as the basis
of an actuarial computation whereby the face value of
the policy plus interest is equalized over the life expectancy of the beneficiary. Under this interpretation of
§ 602 (h) (2), the respondent, who was 54 years of age
at the death of the insured, is entitled to monthly installments of $29.50, at the rate of $5.90 for each $1,000 of
insurance in which she had a beneficial interest. These
installments are to be paid for 120 months certain,' and
to continue during her remaining lifetime if she lives
beyond that 10-year period.
In reversing the District Court, the Circuit Court of
Appeals held this method of calculation set forth by Regulation 3450 to be inconsistent with the provisions of
§ 602 (h) (2). It construed the latter provisions, in accord with the respondent's contention, as plainly requiring
7 If the first beneficiary fails to survive the 10-year period, after
having received at least one installment, "thereafter monthly install-.
ments in the same amount shall be paid to the person or persons
entitled as beneficiary until all of the installments certain shall have
been paid." Regulation 3451, 6 Fed. Reg. 1162, 1166, 38 C. F. R.
Cum. Supp. § 10.3451.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

that the total of the equal monthly installments payable
over a period of 120 months certain should equal the face
value of the insurance, plus interest. Under this constriction, Mrs. Zazove is entitled to receive $48.08, instead
of $29.50, as her monthly installment, so that the total of
the 120 payments certain will amount to $5,000 (plus interest), instead of $3,450 (plus interest) as determined by
the Veterans' Administration, with the monthly installments due her if she survives the period of guaranteed
payments continuing at the same rate. Taking into account Mrs. Zazove's life expectancy as estimated by the
American Experience Table of Mortality, the actual cash
value of this $5,000 insurance policy at the time of the
insured's death would amount to $8,145 under respondent's construction, instead of $5,000 as determined by'the
regulation.8
In arriving at its decision, the majority of the Circuit,
Court of Appeals reasoned that the terms of § 502 (h) (2)
are clear and unambiguous; that nothing is said in the
statute about equalizing the sum over the life expectancy
of the beneficiary; and that Congress unmistakably prescribed payment of the face value plus interest in equal
monthly installments over a period of 120 months certain.
The maior difficulty with this reasoning lies in the inadequate consideration that it gives to the full extent of the
payment provided by § 602 (h) (2). In effect, the Circuit
Court of Appeals majority stopped short, in its reading
of the terms for payment of the insurance in that subsection, at the end of the phrase "in equal monthly installments for one hundred and twenty months certain." By
stopping short at that phrase, the court failed to consider
the alternative possibility that Congress intended the immediately following phrase, "with such payments continuing during the remaining lifetime of such beneficiary,"
8 See table, inf ra note 18.

UNITED STATES v. ZAZOVE.
602

Opinion of the Court.

to provide an additional and equally essential component
of the statutory equivalent for the face value of the
insurance. Assuming that this alternative construction
of the section is in fact what Congress intended, the only
proper interpretative regulation would be one that computed the value of the monthly installments payable to
any given first beneficiary in such a manner that the value
of the payments to be made, giving due weight to the
beneficiary's life expectancy at the death of the insured,
would be equivalent to the face value of the policy, plus
3% interest. Regulation 3450 is based on that assumption. It was only because the Circuit Court of Appeals
failed to regard the continuing payability of monthly installments, after the payment of the 120 installments
certain, as possibly constituting a significant component of
the insurance for which the serviceman had contracted,
rather than a sheer gratuity conferred by Congress, that
the court could view the subsection as plainly and without
ambiguity requiring the face value of the insurance to
be paid by the end of the 120 months certain.
Moreover, the very presence of the term "certain" in
the phrase "equal monthly installments for one hundred
and twenty months certain" suggests a view contrary to
that reached by the court. below. It will be noted that
when Congress had in mind, as it clearly did in the case of
§ 602 (h) (1), that a fixed number of installments provided for should equal the face value of the insurance,
there was no occasion for the use of "certain" in describing
the installments to be made and, indeed, the term is not
found in § 602 (h) (1). While the inclusion of the term
in describing the fixed number of installments to be paid
under § 602 (h) (2) might conceivably be a mere superfluity, its presence at least suggests the far greater probability that it Was used in the specialized, technical sense
in which it is generally employed in the insurance fieldnamely, to indicate a guaranty that a designated number

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

of monthly payments shall be forthcoming, where a policy
provides an option for equal monthly installments continuing throughout the lifetime of a payee, with the individual installment varying in amount depending on the
age of the beneficiary when the policy matures.'
Hence, in our view, a reading of § 602 (h) (2) in its
entirety suffices to demonstrate that the language there
used by Congress is far from being so clear and so free
from ambiguity as to preclude the construction adopted
by the Veterans' Administration in Regulation 3450. To
this extent, we believe the reasoning of the Circuit Court
of Appeals was in error. But that alone would not necessarily invalidate its holding since, as the Government
appears to concede, the terms of § 602 (h) (2) are not
unambiguously in accord with the regulation. Indeed,
if the ambiguity inherent in § 602 (h) (2) were found in
the terms of an ordinary commercial insurance policy,
there might well be substantial ground for construing it
in favor of the insured."0
There is, of course, a marked distinction between the
criteria for judicial construction of an ordinary commercial insurance contract, and construction of the provisions
of an act of Congress setting up a system of national life
insurance for servicemen to be administered by a governmental agency. The statutory provisions, where ambiguous, are to be construed liberally to effectuate the
beneficial purposes that Congress had in mind. In this
respect, judicial construction of the statute may appear
similar to construction of a commercial policy, where ambiguous provisions are generally construed in favor of the
insured. In the latter case, construction favorable to the
9 See examples, in the text infra, of standard usage of this term
in commercial insurance policies.
10 See Aschenbrenner v. United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co.,
292 U. S. 80, 84 et seq. (1934) ; Manufacturers' Accident Indemnity
Co. v. Dorgan, 58 F. 945,956 (1893).

UNITED STATES v. ZAZOVE.
602

Opinion of the Court.

insured rests on the theory that "The phraseology of contracts of insurance is that chosen by the insurer and the
contract in fixed form is tendered to the prospective policy
holder who is often without technical training, and who
rarely accepts it with a lawyer at his elbow. So if its
language is reasonably open to two constructions, that
more favorable to the insured will be adopted . . . and
unless it is obvious that the words are intended to be used
in their technical connotation they will be given the meaning that common speech imports. . ... " But the statute is an expression of legislative intent rather than
the embodiment of an agreement between Congress and
the insured person. Only the intent of Congress, which in
this case is the insurer, need be ascertained to fix the meaning of the statutory terms; the layman understanding of
the policy holder does not have the relevance here that it
has in the construction of a commercial contract."2
On the other hand, we think it clear that an administrative regulation purporting to construe an ambiguous
subsection of the National Life Insurance Act of 1940 is
not automatically to be deemed valid merely because not
plainly interdicted by the terms of the particular provision construed. The Administrator's general rule-making power, which was exercised in issuing Regulation 3450,
is limited by the statute to "such rules and regulations, not
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter, as are necessary or appropriate to carry out its purposes .
Moreover, a 1946 amendment to § 608, designed to eliminate the finality of the decisions of the Administrator on
11Aschenbrenner v. United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co., supra
note 10, at 84-85.
12 This is not, of course, to deny that the statute and regulations
adopted pursuant to it give rike to an obligation that has the force
of a binding contract with the serviceman insured. See Lynch v.
United States, 292 U. S. 571,579 (1934).
13 § 608, 38 U. S. C. § 808, quoted in part supra, note 6.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

insurance matters,14 amended the last sentence of § 608 to
add the words set out in italics:
"Except in the event of suit as provided in section 617
hereof, or other appropriate court proceedings, all
decisions rendered by the Administrator under the
provisions of this Act, or regulations properly issued
pursuant thereto, shall be final and conclusive on all
questions of law or fact, and no other official of the
United States, except a judge or judges of United
States courts, shall have jurisdiction to review any
such decisions."
The extension of procedures available to secure judicial
review, the interpolation of the word "properly," and the
addition, presumably out of an abundance of caution, of
the tautological phrase "except a judge or judges of United
States courts" are indicative of congressional concern that
the regulations of the Veterans' Administration be subject
to more than casual judicial scrutiny when they are based
upon a controverted construction of the statute.
Accordingly, § 602'(h) (2) must be read in the full context of related sections of the statute and other indicia of
legislative intent before we can adequately determine
whether the regulation is "not inconsistent" with the provisions of the Act and whether it is "necessary or appropriate to carry out its purposes." We turn therefore from
narrow, semantic considerations to a broader context in
which the intent of Congress can be more readily comprehended.
The proper meaning of § 602 (h) (2) becomes apparent
when the respective assumptions and consequences of each
of the two alternative interpretations before us are tested
against the legislative history and the statute viewed in
its entirety. The construction adopted by the Circuit
14 S. Rep. No. 1705, 79th Cong., 2d Sess. 9; H. R. Rep. No. 2002,
79th Cong., 2d Sess. 10; § 12 of the 1946 amendment, 60 Stat. 781,
788, amending § 608.

UNITED STATES v. ZAZOVE.
602

Opinion of the Court.

Court of Appeals would result in conferring a far greater
return to beneficiaries in the group covered by § 602 (h)
(2), i. e., over thirty at the time of the insured's death,
than the return to which first beneficiaries covered by
§ 602 (h) (1), i. e., under thirty at the insured's death,
are entitled.
It is unquestioned that the latter group,
under the original statutory provisions," were entitled
only to 240 monthly installments (i. e., over a 20-year
period) which in the aggregate equal the face value plus
interest, with no further installments payable thereafter,.
whether or not the payee survived that limited period.
But, under the ruling of the Circuit Court of Appeals, payments in many if not most of the cases involving the former group of beneficiaries would exceed the face value of
the policy since any first beneficiary who survived the 10year period of § 602 (h) (2) would automatically secure
more than that amount. In fact, the actual value of a
policy, at maturity, to a 30-year old beneficiary, under this
ruling, would be almost two and a half times its face
amount,"6 whereas the 29-year old, beneficiary, paid in
accordance with § 602 (h) (1) (whose interpretation is
not open to question), could never receive more than the
face amount, plus interest. And the aggregate of guaranteed and continuing payments made at so -high a rate
under § 602 (h) (2) would necessarily greatly exceed the
7
total face value of the policies issued under the statute."
15 The statute was amended in 1946 to make all future beneficiaries,
regardless of age, eligible for the life annuity with 120 guaranteed
payments previously limited to those over thirty. § 9 of the 1946
amendment, 60 Stat. 781, 785, adding subsection (t) (3) to § 602 of
the 1940 Act.
16 See table, inf ra note 18.
17 Ibid.
As mentioned in note 15 supra, the life annuity with 120 guaranteed
payments was made available in 1946 to all beneficiaries regardless
of age. AcCieptance of respondent's interpretation would require us
to view Congress as having offered, in the 1946 amendment, four

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

This sharp disparity between the two different groups
of beneficiaries does not result under the regulation, since
optional settlements (see note 36 infra), three of which would be limited in value at maturity to the face amount of the insurance, while
-the fourth option would offer a value far in excess of the face amount
and would be available to all beneficiaries without regard to their age
at the insured's death.
By the calculations of the American Experience Table, a person
has to be 68 years old before his life expectancy is less than 10
years. Accordingly, in all cases where the first beneficiary is under
68 years of age at the time the insured dies, the-actual value of
'the policy, thus computed, would exceed its face amount. The Ad-ministrator
estimates that, on the approximately 2.1 billion dollars
of death claims already incurred and now being settled under the
provision for life income with installments guaranteed for 120 months,
the additional liability that would result if settlement were required
to be made pursuant to the Circuit Court's holding would amount
to approximately 1.8 billion dollars. Government's brief, p. 67.
Potential liability on the billions of dollars of insurance now in force
and yet to mature would similarly be vastly increased under this
view.
The precise size of the latter liability is of course problematical.
In a letter to the Solicitor General, dated October 24, 1947, the
Veterans' Administration estimated the amount of insurance in force
and not yet matured at 35 billion dollars. Assuming that all of
that insurance would be held to mature at death and that the
typical beneficiary would be a woman aged 30 at the death of her
husband, and that all policies would be settled under the life income
option with installments guaranteed for 120 months, the Administrator estimated that potential liability under respondent's view of
the statute might be about 97 billion dollars,' instead of 35 billion
dollars (the potential liability under Regulation 3450)-an increased
future liability of 62 billion dollars. And if 10% of all lapsed
policies were reinstated, the potential additional liability (on the
basis of the above assumptions) would be about 19.7 billion dollars.
While these assumptions may, be overly favorable to the Government's contentions and may not be fully borne out by the course
of future events, it is obvious-even allowing for a wide margin
of error-that the added potential liability under the holding of
the Circuit Court of Appeals might well amount to billions of
dollars.

UNITED STATES v. ZAZOVE.
602

Opinion of the Court.

the age of the first beneficiary is used by the regulation
as the basis of an actuarial calculation pursuant to a
formula whereby total payments under § 602 (h) (2) approximate the face value of the policies, plus interest.
The extent of the difference in result is indicated by the
table, set forth in the margin,"' of comparative present
values of the monthly installments under the regulation
and under the view of the Circuit Court of Appeals, taking into account the beneficiary's life expectancy as shown
by the American Experience Table of Mortality.
The Circuit Court thought it probable that Congress
originally intended the higher rate of benefit payments to
be restricted to the beneficiaries covered by § 602 (h) (2)
because that group of persons over 30 at the time of the
serviceman's death would include parents, who would be
at least middle-aged, and "young widows with small childr'en whose ten years of monthly payments would end at
the most needed time." "9 This would hardly serve to
explain, however, why Congress would intentionally discriminate in so substantial a manner against a similarly
deserving buit slightly younger widow in the under-thirty
category by failing to extend comparable benefits to the
latter group.
Present value
Present value
under Regulation
under C. C. A. 7
' Beneficiary's age
view
3450
10 ....................... $1,000
$2,786
20 .......................
1,000
2,633
30 .......................
1,000
2,421
40 .......................
1,000
2, 136
50.......................
1,000
1,783.
54 .......................
1,000
1,629
60 .......................
1,000
1,411
70 .......................
1,000
1,129
See Appendix D of the Government's brief for the mathematical
formulae used in constructing this table.
"ITranscript of Record, p. 10.
8

OCTOBER TERM. 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

The disparity in benefits available under the respondent's view, as contrasted with those available under the
regulation, is reflected in a correspondingly large increase,
under the former view, in the total liability for beneficial
payments."
This greatly enhanced liability could be met,
theoretically, in either of two ways: by special congressional appropriations, or by greatly increased premium
rates substantially above those which are now set by the
Veterans' Administration on the assumption that the
regulation is proper.
The Circuit Court of Appeals was of the opinion that
Congress intended the Government to bear the burden
of this extraordinary liability. By express provisions in
the 1940 Act, Congress specified that the United States
would bear the administrative costs of the insurance system 1 excess mortality and disability cost resulting from
the extra hazards of war,2 and the cost of reimbursing the
reserve fund for waiving recovery of benefit payments
erroneously made where it would be inequitable to require
repayment
Cong,'ess obviously contemplated that the
reserve fund to meet the liabilities of National Service
Life Insurance policies was to be self-supporting, sustained by the premiums paid and by the yield of premiums
invested, in all respects aside from those exceptional situations where the statute specifically designated that the
Government would bear the financial burden. Yet Con20

Under the respondent's view, this extraordinary putative liabil-

ity must be considered to have been tremendously increased by the
extension of the § 602 (h) (2) method of payment to all beneficiaries
by the 1946 amendment which removed the limiting age factor.
See note 15 supra.
21
§ 606, 38 U. S. C. § 806.
22 § 607 (a), 38 U. S. C. § 807 (a).
23 § 609, 38 U. S. C. § 809.
Subsequent amendments to the 1940
Act added other specified costs to be borne by the United States.
See, e. g., 38 U. S. C. (Supp. V, 1946) § 802 et seq.

UNITED STATES v. ZAZOVE.
602

Opinion of the Court.

gress nowhere specified that the United States would bear
the huge cost of the enhanced liability that it would necessarily have anticipated had it impressed upon § 602 (h)
(2) the meaning that respondent finds there; and that
striking omission is persuasive, in the absence of cogent
considerations to the contrary, that no generosity of this
magnitude was contemplated.24
Nor can it be assumed that Congress envisaged the setting of premium rates high enough to meet an added
liability of such proportions. Senator Harrison, who was
in charge of the original bill, informed the Senate that
"Premium rates based on the average age-25 years-will
be 67 cents per thousand per month." 25 Such a rate,
though adequate to cover payments under Regulation
3450, would be completely inadequate under the respondent's construction.
Moreover, whatever ambiguity exists in the language
of § 602 (h) (2) is dispelled by a consideration of the
practice in effect under United States Government Life
Insurance, established for World War I veterans, and the
long-established practice of commercial insurance companies, viewed as part of the background of experience
which the draftsmen of § 602 (h) (2) may be assumed
to have had in mind.
The World War Veterans Act; 1924,26 provided for payment of insurance benefits in 240 equal monthly installments; but authorized the Veterans' Administration (formerly the Veterans' Bureau) to provide in the contract
2

Cf. the reasoning of the Court, speaking through Mr. Justice

Holmes, in Pine Hill Coal Co. v. United States, 259 U. S. 191, 196
(1922): "A liability in an 'Pase is not) to be imposed upon a government without clear woAB.s;..
and:Where, as here, the liability
would mount to great surns, only. the plainest language could warrant
a court in taking it to be i mposed. . ....
2 86 Cong. Rec. 12920 (1940).
26 Title III, 43 Stat. 607, 624, as amended, 38 U. S. C. § 512.
792588 0-48-44

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

of insurance "for optional settlements, to be selected by
the insured, whereby such insurance may be made payable
either in one sum or in installments for thirty-six months
or more. . . ." One of the options, set up by Regulation
3068 under this statutory authorization, provided that
monthly installments in amounts designated in an appended table-the amounts being graduated, just as in
Regulation 3450, with the "age of beneficiary at time of
death of the insured"-"will be payable throughout the
lifetime of the designated beneficiary, but if such designated beneficiary dies before 240 such installments have
been paid, the remaining unpaid monthly installments
will be payable in accordance with the beneficiary pro-

visions of the policy."

27

It seems apparent to us that the congressional draftsmen, in framing § 602 (h) (2), were undoubtedly striving
to incorporate into the 1940 Act a provision modeled
on the life-annuity-with-240-payments-certain option set
up by Regulation 3068 under the World War Veterans
Act of 1924, deviating materially only in the number
of payments guaranteed. True, § 602 (h) (2) does not
itself define expressly the method of computation to be
used by the Administrator in determining the size of
the monthly installments in any given case. But, taking
into account the factors previously set forth and considering them against the background of experience under
the 1924 Act, the only reasonable conclusion is that Congress intended the calculation to be an actuarial one,
based on the age of the beneficiary. To subscriL - to
the opposite conclusion, we must believe that Congress
intended, by its wording of § 602 (h) (2), to bestow upon
beneficiaries of World War II servicemen total payments
completely disproportionate to those available to beneficiaries of World War I servicemen. To believe that
27

38 C. F. R. 10.3068.

UNITED STATES v. ZAZOVE.
602

Opinion of the Court.

Congress, by the enactment of a somewhat ambiguous
provision, intended this disproportionate result along with
the other disparities that have been shown to be required
by the respondent's view, puts too great a strain upon
the imagination.
Moreover, the congressional draftsmen of § 602 (h) (2),
with the example before them of the 1924 Act and the
similar practice of standard commercial insurance companies, undoubtedly considered that even the very wording of that subsection, without more, necessarily implied
that the Administrator was to follow the existing practice
in calculating the size of the monthly installments. As
previously noted, the term "certain" appearing in the
phrase "equal monthly installments for one hundred and
twenty months certain" is a technical word that connotes,
because of the context in which it is commonly used in
standard commercial policies, an actuarial calculation of
the monthly installments payable.
For example, one of the standard life insurance policies
used in 1940 provided for a life income option to be "Made
payable in equal annual, semi-annual, quarterly or
monthly instalments for ten or twenty years certain, with
payments continuing during the remaining lifetime of
the person upon whose life the income depends . ...
The first instalment will be due upon the date on which
the option becomes operative. The amount of such instalments shall be determined in accordance with the
table of instalments on the following page, which instalments include interest at the rate of 37 per annum,
and shall be based on the sex and the age at birthday
nearest the due date of the first instalment, of the person
upon whose life the income depends. . . ...
Another
example, closer to the concise form of § 602 (h) (2),
28

294.

The Handy Guide to Standard and Special Contracts (1940)

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

though using the term "fixed" rather than "certain," is
an option which provides for "the payment of equal
monthly instalments in accordance with the table below
[a table whose payments are graduated in amount with
respect, to the "Age of Payee Nearest Birthday at Date
of First Instalment"], to the insured or the beneficiary,
as the case may be, for a fixed period of ten years and
for so long thereafter as the payee shall survive, the first
instalment being payable immediately." 2
Congress may also have assumed that its intent was
made manifest by the juxtaposition of § 602 (h) (2) with
other provisions having similar connotations. Section
605 (b), for example, authorizes the Administrator "to
set aside out of [the National Service Life Insurance
Fund] such reserve amounts as may be required under
accepted actuarialprinciples, to meet all liabilities under
such insurance . . . ." (Italics added.) And § 602 (e)
provides that the premium rates, all "cash, loan, paid
up, and extended values, and all other calculations in
connection with such insurance,shall be based upon said
American Experience Table of Mortality and interest at
-the rate of 3 per centum per annum." (Italics added.)
In any event, the subsequent legislative history of the
2Id.
at 613.
A third illustration provides in the following terms for an election
between a plan similar to that provided by § 602 (h) (2) as construed by Regulation 3450, and the refund life income plan provided
by the 1944 amendment to the statute (see note 33 infra): "The company will pay equal monthly instalments during the payee's remaining
life, with 120 or 240 instalments certain or with instalments certain
until the proceeds are refunded, as may be designated in the election
of the option, the amount of each instalment -to be determined from
the table entitled 'Option 4-Life Income With Instalments Certain'
in accordance with the sex of the payee and the age of the payee at
the payee's birthday nearest to the date when the proceeds of this
policy shall become payable, the first of said instalments to be
payable immediately. . . ." Handy Guide, supra note 28, at 983.
See also id. at 1284-85.

UNITED STATES v. ZAZOVE.
602

Opinion of the Court.

statute clearly indicates congressional approval of the
construction put upon § 602 (h) (2) by Regulation 3450.
A proposed bill was suggested in a letter written by the
Administrator of the Veterans' Administration to Congress in June, 1944, to amend §§ 602 (h) (1) and 602
(h) (2) of the 1940 Act by authorizing "the election of
a refund life income in lieu of the mode of payments
now provided." ' In explaining the necessity of the
amendment, the Administrator pointed out that if "a
widow having a minor child, who is entitled to payments
as provided in section 602 (h) (2), dies after having received one or more installments of insurance, payments
under the contract will cease after payment of 120 installments has been completed even though the total amount
of the installments paid or payable is less than the face
value of the policy and even though the child is too young
to be capable of self-support at the time payments expire.
The proposed amendments will authorize the payment
of the full face value of the insurance in every instance
and will also insure an income throughout the lifetime
of the first beneficiary under the policy." '
In other words, the amendment was proposed partly
to extend a life income option to beneficiaries covered
by § 602 (h) (1), who theretofore had been eligible only
for the 240-payment plan, and partly to provide a solution for the inequitable situation presented in certain
cases covered by the provisions of § 602 (h) (2), when
the 120 installments certain amounted to less than the
face value of the policy and the first beneficiary died
before having received an amount equal to that face value.
The inequitable situation thus considered to be present
under § 602 (h) (2) and sought to be ameliorated by the
proposed amendment could not have existed, of course,
'*S. Rep. No. 1105, 78th Cong., 2d Sess. 2, quoting the Administrator's
letter.
3
1Id. (italics added).

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

if the Circuit Court of Appeals were correct in the construction it has put upon § 602 (h) (2).
The Senate Committee on Finance, in recommending
passage of the bill, adopted the Administrator's letter as
explanatory of the various provisions of the bill " and indicated thereby its approval of the interpretation embodied
in Regulation 3450, since otherwise a major purpose
claimed to be effected by the amendment would have been
completely illusory. Moreover, a table included in the
Administrator's letter, comparing the amount of each
monthly installment and the sum of the guaranteed installments under the new refund life income plan and
under § 602 (h) (2), clearly apprised Congress of the construction put upon the latter section by the regulation.
Hence, in enacting the amendment 33 Congress indicated
its approval of the interpretation upon which the Regulation is based."4
Similar recognition that in many instances "the aggregate amount of insurance actually payable" under the
original mode of settlement provided by § 602 (h) (2)
32

Id. at 1.

Section 6 of the 1944 Act, 58 Stat. 762, 763, amended § 602 (h) (2)
by providing that the Administrator "may include a provision in the
insurance contract authorizing the insured or the beneficiary to elect, in
lieu of this mode of payment, a refund life income in monthly installments payable for such period certain as may be required in order
that the sum of the installments certain, including a last installment
of such reduced amount as may be necessary, shall equal the face
value of the contract less any indebtedness with such payments
continuing throughout the lifetime of such beneficiary: Provided
further, That such optional settlement shall not be available in any
case in which such settlement would result in payments of installments over a shorter period than one hundred and twenty months,
nor in any case in which payments of insurance installments have
been commenced prior to the date of this amendatory Act." Section
5 of the 1944 Act added a similar amendment to § 602 (h) (1).
34 Cf. Alexander v. Mayor, 5 Cranch 1, 7-8 (1809).
33

UNITED STATES v. ZAZOVE.
602

Opinion of the Court.

"amounted to much less than the face of the policy" was
given by the House Committee on World War Veterans'
Legislation, in recommending a 1946 amendment to permit policies on which payments had been made prior to
the 1944 act to elect the refund life income plan." The
1946 bill also included a provision setting up optional
modes of settlement for insurance maturing on or after
August 1, 1946, and the third option was couched in
language identical in every significant respect to that used
in the original § 602 (h) (2)." Accordingly, when Congress enacted the 1946 bill, it in effect incorporated the
old provision of § 602 (h) (2), which was the basis for
Regulation 3450, and in our view thereby accepted the
construction embodied in that regulation, which had
been so clearly brought to its attention on this and prior
occasions.
35 H. R. Rep. No. 2002, 79th Cong., 2d Sess. 5. The measure was
approved by Congress, and § 5 (a) of the Act amends § 602 (h) (1)
and (2) as indicated. 60 Stat. 781,782-3.
3 Section 9 of the Act added to § 602 a new subsection (t),
reading as follows: "Insurance maturing on or subsequent to the
date of enactment of the Insurance Act of 1946 shall be payable
in accordance with the following optional modes of settlement:
"(1) In one sum.
"(2) In equal monthly installments of from thirty-six to two
hundred and forty in number, in multiples of twelve.
"(3) In equal monthly installments for one hundred and twenty
months certain with such payments continuing during the remaining
lifetime of the first beneficiary.
"(4) As a refund life income in monthly installments payable
for such period certain as may be required in order that the sum
of the installments certain, including a last installment of such reduced
amount as may be- necessary, shall equal the face value of the contract, less any indebtedness, with such payments continuing throughout the lifetime of the first beneficiary: Provided, That such optional
settlement shall not be available in any case in which such settlement
would result in payments of installments over a shorter period than
one hundred and twenty months. . ....

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

334 U. S.

Further evidence, were any needed, that Congress accepted as its own this interpretation of the language used
in § 602 (h) (2) is supplied by the significant distinction
maintained in this reenactment between the mode of payment originally provided by § 602 (h) (2) and the refund
life income plan, viewed in the light of the House Committee Report on the bill. It is hardly conceivable-and
if conceivable, hardly explicable-that Congress meant
one thing by the language it used in § 602 (h) (2) when
enacting the original measure in 1940, and another, quite
different thing, when it reenacted that language in 1946.
In the light of the foregoing considerations, the validity
of Regulation 3450 is sustained and the decision of the
Circuit Court of Appeals is
Reversed.

UNITED STATES v. JOHN J. FELIN & CO., INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 17.

Argued May 7, 1947.-Reargued November 18-19, 1947.Decided June 14, 1948.

When prices of pork products (but not live hogs) were fixed under
the Emergency Price Control Act, the Government ordered from
a packer a quantity of four particular pork products for .var
purposes. The packer refused delivery at ceiling prices and the
products were seized by the Government. Under a statutory procedure, an administrative agency awarded compensation at ceiling
prices; this was refused; and the packer was paid half the amount
due at ceiling prices on account. In a suit by the packer for "just
compensation" under the Fifth Amendment, the Court of Claims
found as a fact that the replacement cost of the seized products
at the time and place of the taking was substantially in excess
of the ceiling prices and awarded judgment for the difference
between the amount paid and what it found to be the replacement
value of such products. The packer failed to prove that it had
suffered any actual loss on the particular products seized. On
appeal to this Court, held: Judgment reversed with directions to
enter judgment for the unpaid balance of the value of the products

