GREYHOUND LINES v. MEALEY.
624

Syllabus.

price, the courts must turn to the soundest standards
otherwise available.
We think the Court of Claims made no error of law
in thinking that the controlled market price for voluntary
sales was not the measure of just compensation for the
seized pork chops. Limiting our review to the Scope which
Congress has authorized, we find no error in its calculation of just compensation for the purposes of complying
with the constitutional requirements.

CENTRAL GREYHOUND LINES, INC: v. MEALEY
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF NEW YORK.

No. 14.

Argued October 13, 1947.-Decided June 14,1948.

1. The validity of a state tax under the Federal Constitution was
challenged before the State Tax Commission of New York and
on review before the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court.
Notwithstanding a claim that the only question presented was one
of statutory construction, the Court of Appeals of New Yoik
expressly sustained the constitutionality of the tax and certified
in its remittitur that it had done so. On appeal to this Court,
held: The constitutional question is properly before this Court for
review. Pp. 654-655.
2. A common carrier by motor vehicle challenged the validity under
the Federal Constitution of a New York tax on its gross receipts
from transportation of passengers between two points in the State
but over a route 42.53% of which was in New Jersey and Pennsylvania. Held: New York may constitutionally tax gross receipts
from the transportation apportioned as to the mileage within the
State; but the tax on gross receipts from that portion of the mileage
outside the State unduly burdens interstate commerce, in violation
of the commerce 'clause of the Constitution. Pp. 655-664.
296 N. Y. 18, 68 N. E. 2d 855, reversed.

The constitutionality of a tax levied by New York on
gross receipts of a common carrier from transportation

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

between two points in New York, but largely through
New Jersey and Pennsylvania, was sustained by the State
Tax Commission, the Appellate Division of the Supreme
Court of New York (266 App. Div. 648, 44 N. Y. S. 2d
652), and the Court of Appeals of New York (296 N. Y.
18, 68 N. E. 2d 855). On appeal to this Court, reversed
and remanded, p. 664.
Tracy H. Ferguson argued the cause for appellant.
With him on the brief were George H. Bond and Edward
Schoeneck.
John C. Crary, Jr., Assistant Attorney General of New
York, argued the cause for appellees. With him on the
brief were Nathaniel L. Goldstein, Attorney General,
Wendell P. Brown, Solicitor General, and Irving I. Waxman, Assistant Attorney General.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a proceeding arising out of a determination by
the Tax Commission of the State of New York, sustained
by the courts of the State, whereby § 186-a of the New
York Tax Law was construed to impose a tax on appellant's gross receipts from transportation between points
within the State but over routes that utilize the highways
of Pennsylvania and New Jersey. The appellant contends, against contrary conclusions below, that since the
taxed transportation was interstate commerce, New York
may not constitutionally tax the gross receipts from such
transportation. In any event, it submits that the State
may validly tax only so much of these gross receipts as
are attributable to the mileage within the State. Before
dealing with these issues, we must dispose of an objection
to our right to deal with them.

GREYHOUND LINES v. MEALEY.
653

Opinion of the Court.

The State urges that the constitutional claims here
pressed by the appellant were not passed upon by the
New York Court of Appeals. The record does not sustain this challenge to our jurisdiction. The constitutional
issues were undeniably raised before the State Tax Commission and on review before the Appellate Division of
the Supreme Court, 266 App. Div. 648. The suggestion
that these issues were not before the Court of Appeals is
based on its statement that the question urged there was
"not one of constitutional taxing power but of statutory
construction." 296 N. Y. 18, 24. But the court proceeded to pass upon the constitutional issues and expressly held that "there is no constitutional objection to
taxation of the total receipts here. This is not interstate
commerce . . . ." 296 N. Y. at 25. Its amended remittitur stated explicitly that a question arising under
the Commerce Clause of the Constitution "was presented
and passed upon," and that in sustaining the tax the
court "held that the aforesaid statute as so construed is
not repugnant to that provision of the Federal Constitution." This amendment was not a retrospective injection of a non-existent federal question, but a formal
certification that a federal claim had been presented and
was adjudicated by the Court of Appeals. It is properly
here for review. § 237 (a) of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S.
C. § 344 (a).
This case serves to remind once more that courts do
not adjudicate abstractions, such as, "What is interstate
commerce?" Also, it again 'illustrates that even if it be
found that certain transactions in fact constitute interstate commerce, such conclusion does not answer the
further inquiry whether a particular assertion of power
by a State over such transactions offends the Commerce
Clause.
It is too late in the day to deny that transportation
which leaves a State and enters another State is "Corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

merce .

.

:334 U. S.

. among the several States" simply because the

points from and to are in the same State. Hanley v.
Kansas City Southern R. Co., 187 U. S. 617; Western
Union Tel. Co. v. Speight, 254 U. S. 17; Missouri Pacific
R. Co. v. Stroud, 267 U. S. 404. In reaching the opposite
conclusion the State court relied upon three decisions
of this Court: Lehigh Valley R. Co. v. Pennsylvania,
145 U. S. 192; Ewing v. Leavenworth, 226 U. S. 464;
New York ex rel. Cornell Steamboat Co. v. Sohmer,
235 U. S. 549. The Ewing case was based on the Lehigh
Valley case; the Cornell Steamboat case relied on the
Ewing and the Lehigh Valley decisions. The holding
in the Lehigh Valley case was defined with l)recision
by.Mr. Justice Holmes in the Hanley case. He accounted
for some State decisions which disregarded ilterstate commerce as a matter of fact, tested by the actual transaction,
as "made simply out of deference to. conclusions drawn
from Lehigh Valley Railroad Co. v. Pennsylvania, 145
U. S. 192, and we are of opinion that they carry their conclusions too far." He pointed out that in the Lehigh
Valley case "the tax 'was determined in respect of receipts
for the proportion of the transportation within the State.'
145 U. S. 201. Such a proportioned tax .had been sustained in the case of commerce admitted to be interstate."
Hanley v. Kansas City Southern R. Co., supra, at 621.
This limited scope of the Lehigh Valley case was the basis
of decision in United States Express Company v. Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335. In that case, the Minnesota Supreme
Court had interpreted the Lehigh Valley decision "as allowing a recovery of taxes upon that proportion of the
earnings derived from the carriage wholly within the state.
This seems to us the safer rule, and avoids any question of
taxing interstate commerce, and we adopt and apply it
to this case. Nine per cent. of the taxes recovered on
this class of earnings should be deducted from the, amount

GREYHOUND LINES v. MEALEY.
653

Opinion of the Court.

of the recovery." 114 Minn. 346, 350. On writ of error
to the Supreme Court of Minnesota, this Court upheld
the State court's application of the Lehigh Valley decision. 223 U. S.335, 341-42.
In view, however, of some contrariety of views to which
the opinion in the Lehigh Valley case has given rise, it
calls for a more candid consideration than merely quoting
phrases from it congenial to a particular decision. The
Lehigh Valley case was this. The Lehigh Valley Railroad
Company attacked the validity of a Pennsylvania statute
taxing the company's gross receipts from its line between
Mauch Chunk, Pennsylvania, and Phillipsburg, New Jersey. The Pennsylvania Railroad operated a connecting
line between Phillipsburg and Philadelphia. The Lehigh
and the Pennsylvania had arranged for continuous transportation of through passengers and freight between
Mauch Chunk and Philadelphia. The trial court had
found, as appears from the record, that the "total receipts
from this transportation, seven per cent. of which were
collected by the Lehigh Valley Railroad Company at
point of shipment and the remainder by the Pennsylvania
Railroad Company at point of destination, were apportioned between the companies upon a mileage basis-that
is to say, each company's share was in the proportion that
the number of miles carried by it bore to the. total number
of miles carried." It sustained the tax on the ground that
the transportation was in substance "purely internal."
The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania affirmed on the trial
court's opinion. Lehigh.Valley R. Co. v. Commonwealth,
1 Monag. 45,17 Atl. 179.
When the case got here, the Lehigh Valley contended
that the transportation between Mauch Chunk and PhilIipsburg constituted interstate commerce and therefore
beyond the taxing power of Pennsylvania, because Phillipsburg, while on the Delaware River border between

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

Pennsylvania and New Jersey, was in New Jersey and
reached by the railroad via an interstate bridge. Pennsylvania, on the other hand, ignoring the stretch over
the interstate bridge (apparently on the theory of de
ninimis) insisted that the gross receipts were deemed
to be "wholly from traffic within the state" because so
treated by the railroad itself. This was based on the
fact that the Lehigh Valley and the Pennsylvania Railroad had apportioned the receipts from their through.
traffic, and the amount of the gross receipts which Pennsylvania taxed was the proportion which the railroads
inter se attributed to the Lehigh Valley as its share of
the earnings within Pennsylvania. This fiscal arrangement between the two railroads is the explanation and
justification for the statement in this Court's opinion that
"The tax under consideration here was determined in
respect of receipts for the proportion of the transportation
within the State." 145 U. S. at 201. And so, naturally
enough, in the Hanley case the Court called the tax which
had been sustained in the Lehigh Valley case "a proportioned tax," and as such it "had been sustained in the
case of commerce admitted to be interstate." Hanley
v. Kansas City Southern R. Co., supra, at 621.
In support of the proposition that "a proportioned tax
had been sustained in the case of commerce admitted to
be interstate" the Hanley case invoked Maine v. Grand
Trunk R. Co., 142 U. S. 217. Unfortunately, the opinion
in Lehigh Valley did not rely on that case. It did not
even mention it. This silence is explicable by the fact
that only a few months befor6, in the same teram, the
Court had sharply divided on this very issue in the Grand
Trunk case. In the Lehigh Valley case Mr. Chief Justice
Fuller spoke for a unanimous court. One is entitled to
infer that. such accord was obtainable by not renewing the battle of the Grand Trunk case. It would not be

GREYHOUND LINES v. MEALEY.
653

Opinion of the Court.

the first time in the history of this Court that agreement
could be reached by one mode of reasoning but not by
another. Mr. Justice Bradley and his fellow dissenters
in the Grand Trunk case were evidently content to sustain the Pennsylvania tax as a tax on "domestic transportation," "internal intercourse," in short as not "interstate commerce," for thereby they would not bring into
question the views so vigorously expressed by them a few
months before.
It was reasonable enough to disregard the short distance
in which the transportation in the Lehigh Valley case
went over the interstate bridge on the Delaware River but
otherwise was wholly in Pennsylvania, and to treat it as
de minimis when the railroad's accounting itself treated
the receipts as proportioned. "Regulation and commerce
among the States both are practical rather than technical
conceptions, and, naturally, their limits must be fixed by
practical lines." Galveston, Harrisburgand San Antonio
R. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217, 225. But to label transportation across an interstate stream "local commerce" for
some purposes when it is "interstate commerce" in other
relations, see, e. g., Covington & CincinnatiBridge Co. v.
Kentucky, 154 U. S. 204, is to use loosely terms having
connotations of constitutional significance. To call commerce in fact interstate "local commerce" because under
a given set of circumstances, as in the Lehigh Valley case,
a particular exertion of State power is not rendered invalid by the Commerce Clause is to indulge in a fiction.
Especially in the disposition of constitutional issues are
legal fictions hazardous, because of the risk of confounding users and not merely readers. The kind of
confusion to which the Lehigh Valley opinion has given
rise results from employing a needless fiction-calling
commerce local which in fact is interstate-as a manner of
stating that a particular exercise of State power is not

660.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

3j4 U. S.

invalid even though it affects interstate commerce. The
difficult task of determining whether a phase of commerce,
concededly interstate, is subject. to a particular incidence
of State regulation, through taxation or otherwise, is not
lessened by calling interstate commerce local commerce
in order to sustain its local' control. To state this persistent and protean problem of our federalism in the form
of a question-begging fiction, is not to answer it.
This brings us to the facts of the case before us. New
York claims the right to tax the gross receipts from transportation which traverses New Jersey and Pennsylvania
as well as New York. To say that this commerce is confined to New York is to indulge in pure fiction. To do'
so, does not eliminate the relation of Pennsylvania and
New Jersey to the transactions nor eliminate the benefits
which those two States confer upon the portions of the
transportation within their borders. Neither their interests nor their responsibilities are evaporated by the verbal
device of attributing the entire transportation to New
York. There is no suggestion here that the interstate
routes were utilized as a means of avoiding even in part
New York's taxation. Compare, e. g., Eichholz v. Public
Service Commission of Missouri, 306 U. S, 268, and Ryan'
v. PennsylvaniaPublic Utility Commission, 143 Pa. Super.
517. We are not dealing with a necessary deviation or a
calculated detour. Nor is New York seeking to tax transactions physically outside its borders but so trifling in
quantity to the New York commerce, of which they form
a part, as to be constitutionally insignificant. New York
seeks to tax the total receipts from transportation of which
nearly 43% of the mileage lay in New Jersey and Pennsylvania. Transactions which to such a substantial extent actually take place in New Jersey and Pennsylvania
cannot be deemed legally to take place in New York.

GREYHOUND LINES v. MEALEY.
653

Opinion of the Court.

Of course we are dealing here with "interstate commerce." Of course Congress did not exceed its power to
regulate such commerce when in the Motor Carrier Act of
1935 it explicitly included commerce such as that before
us within the scope of that Act: "The term 'interstate
commerce' means commerce between any place in a State
and any place in another State or between places in the
same State through another State, whether such commerce moves wholly by motor vehicle or partly by motor
vehicle and partly by rail, express, or water." 49 Stat.
543, 544, 49 U. S. C. § 303 (a) (10). In a case like this
nothing is gained, and clarity is lost, by not starting with
recognition of the fact that it is interstate commerce
which the State is seeking to reach and candidly facing
the real question whether what the State is exacting is
a constitutionally fair demand by the State for that aspect
of the interstate commerce to which the State bears a
special relation. See Union Brokerage Co. v. Jensen, 322
U. S. 202, and Bob-Lo Excursion Co. v. Michigan, 333
U. S. 28. Such being the real issue inevitably "nice distinctions are to be expected." Galveston, Harrisburgand
San Antonio R. Co. v. Texas, supra, at 225. But such
distinctions would be clearer and more reasonably made
if, for instance, a flat privilege tax applied by a municipality to an express company shipping packages between
points within a State, but over routes which for a very
short distance pass out of the State, had been frankly sustained'on the ground that the tax did not burden interstate commerce in the constitutional sense rather than
on the ground that it was not interstate commerce. Compare Ewing v. Leavenworth, supra,with Kirmeyer v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 568. Again, it would have made for a less
dialectical, if not more coherent, development of the law
to sustain a New York gross receipts tax on a New York
corporation, engaged in towing vessels between ports in

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

the State of New York on the Hudson River traversing
the New Jersey side but not touching its shore, on the
ground that upon the facts of that case, and more particularly New Jersey's relation to the transactions (very
different from those now before us), New York was not
burdening interstate commerce, rather than to hold that
"transportation between the ports of the State is not interstate commerce, excluded from the taxing power of the
State, because as to a part of the journey the course is
over the territory of another State." Compare New York
ex rel. Cornell Steamboat Co. v. Sohmer, supra, at 560,
with Cornell Steamboat Co. v. United States, 321 U. S.
634.
It is significant that, so far as we are advised, no State
other than New York seeks to tax the unapportioned re..
ceipts from transportation going through more than one
State, (except to.an extent so insignificant as to be disregarded), merely because such transportation returns to
the State of its origin. If New Jersey and Pennsylvania
could claim their right to make appropriately apportioned
claims against that substantial part of the business of
appellant to which they afford protection, we do not see
how on principle and in precedent such a claim could be
denied. This being so, to allow New York to impose a
tax on the gross rEceipts for the entire mileage--on the
57.47% within New York as well as the 42.53% withoutwould subject interstate commerce to the unfair burden
of being taxed as to portions of its revenue by States
which give protection to those portions, as well as to a
State which does not. This is not to conjure up remote
possibilities. Pennsylvania's claim to, tax a portion of
appellant's gross receipts from the transportation which
New York has taxed is not a matter of speculation.
Apparently, Pennsylvania has so taxed since 1931. Penn.
Laws 1931, No. 255, as amended by Act of June 5, 1947,

GREYHOUND LINES v. MEALEY.
653

Opinion of the Court.

No. 204. New York does not deny that Pennsylvania
in fact so taxes, though there is dispute as to the meaning
of the formula by which she does so. But even if neither
Pennsylvania nor New Jersey sought to tax their proportionate share of the revenue from this transportation,
such abstention would not justify the taxing by New York
of the entire revenue. Freeman v. Hewit, 329 U. S. 249,
256. By its very nature an unapportioned gross receipts
tax makes interstate transportation bear more than "a
fair share of the cost of the local government whose protection it enjoys." Id. at 253. The vice of such a tax
is that it lays "a direct burden upon every transaction in
[interstate] commerce by withholding, for the use of the
State, a part of every dollar received in such transactions."
Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S. 292, 297;
see Adams Manufacturing Co. v. Storen, 304 U. S. 307,
311; Freeman v. Hewit, supra; Joseph v. Carter and
Weekes Stevedoring Co., 330 U. S.422.
However, while the New York courts have construed
the statute as levying an unapportioned gross receipts
tax on this transaction, the entire tax need not fall. The
tax may be "fairly apportioned" to the "business done
within the state by a fair method of apportionment."
Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, 303 U. S.
250, 255. There is no dispute as to feasibility in apportioning this tax. On the record before us the tax may
constitutionally be sustained on the receipts from the
transportation apportioned as to the mileage within the
State. See Ratterman v. Western Union Telegraph Co.,
127 U. S. 411, 427-28. There is no question as to the
fairness of the suggested method of apportionment. Compare Maine v. Grand Trunk R. Co., supra, with New
Jersey Bell Telephone Co. v. State Board of Taxes and
Assessments, 280 U. S.338; cf. Wallace v. Hines, 253 U. S.
66. Both appellant and appellee have indicated here

664

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

334 U. S.

that, as a matter of construction, the statute under consideration permits such apportionment, but that is a
matter for the New York courts to determine.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE

RUTLEDGE

MR. JUSTICE MURIHY,

and MR.

JUSTICE DOUGLAS

concurs

in the result.

with whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK

concur, dissenting.

A precise delineation of the controlling facts is essential
to a determination of the constitutional issue involved
in this appeal. That issue concerns an alleged conflict
between the commerce clause of the Constitution of the
United States and a New York statute taxing the gross
income of utilities doing business within that state. Specifically, the problem relates to an application of the tax
to the gross receipts from bus transportation originating
and terminating in New York but passing through parts
of New Jersey and Pennsylvania.
Section 186-a of the New York Tax Law is entitled
"Emergency tax on thb furnishing of utility services."
It imposes a tax "equal to two per centum of its gross
income . . . upon every utility doing business in this
state . . . in addition to any and all other taxes and fees
imposed by any other provision of law for the same period."' The word "utility" is defined to include every
person "subject to the supervision of either division of
the state department of public service" 2 and .the words
''gross income" are defined to include "receipts received
in or by reason of any sale . . . made or service rendered
for ultimate consumption or use by the purchaser in this
state .

. .

."

I New York Tax Law, § 186-a, subd. 1.
2

3

New YorkTax Law, § 1S6-a, subd. 2 (a).
New York Tax Law, § 186-a, subd. 2 (c).

GREYHOUND LINES v. MEALEY.
653

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

Appellant is a New York corporation engaged in business as a common carrier by omnibus. It operates its
buses both within and without New York and is subject
to the supervision of the New York Public Service Commission. Hence it is a utility within the meaning of
§ 186-a.
Appellant operates buses over numerous routes from
New York City to Buffalo and other cities in upstate
New York, routes which cut across sections of New Jersey
and Pennsylvania and which are the most direct ones
possible. The controversy is concerned only with the
taxation unde'r § 186-a of that part of appellant's receipts
derived from continuous transportation of passengers
between New York points over such routes. Application
of the tax to the receipts from transportation moving
solely within New York is not contested; and receipts
from transportation between New York points and outof-state points have not been taxed.
At the hearing before the State Tax Commission relative to the contested tax, the parties agreed that the evidence would be limited to the operations over these routes
during July, 1937, and that the conclusions to be drawn
from such evidence would be applicable to all months
subsequent thereto. The evidence which was introduced
revealed that 57,47% of the total mileage of the journeys
over the routes in question was traversed within New
York, while 42.53% thereof was traversed within New
Jersey and Pennsylvania. Although some transfers and
stopovers in New Jersey and Pennsylvania were indicated, there was no showing that they were of a substantial number or that they were of such a nature as to
break the transportation between New York points into
two unrelated trips. The legal issues in the case have
been predicated at all times upon the evidence that there
was continuous transportation of passengers between
New York points on single tickets and upon the evidence
792588 0-48-47

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

334 U. S.

as to the percentage of the mileage traversed within and
without New York.
The State Tax Commission construed § -186-a as applicable to appellant's total receipts from the transportation
in issue, proration of the receipts in accordance with the
mileage traversed in New York being considered unnecessary, So construed, § 186-a was held not to conflict
with the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution.
This ruling was sustained by the New York courts.
The crucial fact, from the constitutional standpoint,
is the dual and unique character of transportation between termini in the same state where the territory of
another state is traversed en route. Such transportation
has both interstate and intrastate features. From the
standpoint of physical movement, there is a crossing of
state lines and a journey over territory belonging to more
states than one-a movement that is undeniably inter-,
state. At the same time, however, the business of transporting passengers or freight between points 'in the same
state is essentially local in character despite the interstate
movement. All of the essential elements of the commercial intercourse represented by the continuous transportation are resident in that one state. The parties to the
transportation contract, the making of the contract and
the service which is the subject of the contract are identified preeminently with that state. The whole purpose
of the transaction is to transport the passengers or freight
to a point within the same state as the point of origin.
Passage through another state is a mere geographic incident in the consummation of this local transaction.
While that passage may have interstate significance for
other purposes, it-cannot operate by itself to make interstate the commercial relationship underlying the continuous transportation.
And so within the narrow compass of this particular
type of transportation it is something more than a fiction

GREYHOUND LINES v. MEALEY.
653

MURPHY, J., dissenting.

to say that both interstate and intrastate features are
present. Cf. Bob-Lo Excursion Co. Y. Michigan, 333
U. S. 28. It is a recognition of the hard realities of the
situation. It is a realization that transporting persons
between points in the same state is a business local in
all its commercial connotations, even though there is a
physical movement of an interstate character. Due respect for Mr. Justice Holmes' admonition that commerce
among the states is a practical rather than a technical
legal conception, Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S.
375, 398, forbids an indiscriminate application of the
interstate label simply because state lines are crossed
in the course of a particular business. Where local elements remain intact despite the interstate movement it
is of the essence of practicality to give recognition to
that fact. Such is the situation in this case.
This Court has long recognized that this type of transportation, unlike other types, is physically interstate and
commercially local. And it has given life to that distinction so that the federal power over interstate commerce
might remain effective without detracting unnecessarily
from the scope of state power over those engaged in this
narrow transportation sphere. Where the proposed state
action is such as to create an actual or potential conflict
with the federal authority arising out of the physical
movement across state lines, the Court has emphasized the
interstate aspect of the transportation in making the federal power supreme. Thus in Hanley v. Kansas City
Southern R. Co., 187 U. S.617, Congress was found to have
the sole power to fix the rates for transportation of freight
by rail between two points in Arkansas over a route passing through a part of the Indian Territory; Arkansas was
accordingly precluded from the exercise of its rate-making
authority in this instance. Such transportation was said
to be interstate, stress being laid upon the physical movement of the freight across and beyond the Arkansas border.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
MURPHY,

1., dissenting.

334 U. S.

See also Missouri Pacific R. Co. v. Stroud, 267 U. S. 404;
Western Union Tel. Co. v. Speight, 254 U. S. 17; compare
Wilmington TransportationCo. v. Railroad Commission,
236 U. S.151.
But where the impact of state action is such as not to
endanger or embarrass federal control over interstate
movements, the Court has relied upon the local elements
of the transportation in sanctioning the imposition of
state authority. This has occurred in the setting of state
gross receipts taxes and city license taxes levied on those
engaged in the type of transportation here involved.
Lehigh Valley R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 145 U. S. 192;
United States Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335;
Ewing v. Leavenworth, 226 U. S. 464; Cornell Steamboat
Co. v. Sohmer, 235 U. S. 549. In those cases the taxes
were non-discriminatory in nature and interfered in no
way with any regulations Congress might wish to impose
by reason of the movements across state lines. The thrust
of the taxes affected only the business of transporting articles between two points in the same state and the receipts
derived therefrom. That business was considered to be of
a local variety and a clear rejection was made of the contention that "the mere passage over the soil of another
State renders that business foreign, which is domestic."
Lehigh Valley R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, supra, 202. As
stated in Cornell Steamboat Co. v. Sohmer, supra, 560,
"But transportation between the ports of the State is not
interstate commerce, excluded from the taxing power of
the State, because as to a part of the journey the course is
over the territory of another State."
Room has thus been made in our federal system for a
reasonable accommodation of the federal and state interests in regulating and taxing those engaged in this unique
transportation. See Cornell Steamboat Co. v. United
States, 321 U. S. 634, 639, note 4. It is an accommodation

GREYHOUND LINES v. MEALEY.
653

MURPHY,

669

J., dissenting.

designed to protect the national interest in uniform regulation of interstate movements as well as to safeguard the
states' legitimate interest in placing a fair share of the
local burdens on those doing local business.4
The proper answer to the issue in this case is dictated
in large part by the Lehigh Valley line of decisions.
Those prior cases are not to be dismissed as dialectical
exercises in the law of interstate commerce. They represent a realistic appreciation of the fact that the business
from which the gross receipts in issue were derived is
local in nature. And § 186-a of the New York Tax
Law, in taxing those gross receipts, is consistent with
the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution. This
tax is grounded on a base different from that which
justifies the exercise of federal power, making a conflict between federal and state authority impossible. In
effect, § 186-a levies a non-discriminatory tax on all
companies furnishing continuous transportation service
between cities in that state. The tax is in terms of a percentage of the gross receipts from that service. Engaging
in such transportation service is a local business, even
though some of the routes cross parts of other states. And
taxing the gross receipts from this service is well within
4 Section 303 (10) of Part II of the Interstate Commerce Act, 49
U. S. C. § 363 (10), defines interstate commerce, for federal regulatory purposes, to include commerce "between places in the same
State through another State." But § 302 (b) of the same Act, 49
U. S. C. § 302 (b), states that nothing therein "shall be construed
to affect the powers of taxation of the several States." This is a
Congressional recognition of the accommodation that exists in regard
to the federal and state interests.
See, in general, Kauper, "State Regulation of Interstate Motor
Carriers," 31 Mich. L. Rev. 1097, 1105-1107; Tarnay, "Methods
for Differentiating Interstate Transportation from Intrastate Transportation," 6 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 553, 633-637; Ganit, The Commerce
Clause of the United States Constitution, § 62 (d), (1932).

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

334 U. S.

the constitutional power of New York so far as the commerce clause is conce rnedIn light of the past decisions of this Court, the only
novel question here presented is whether New York must
limit its tax to that proportion of the receipts which corresponds to the proportion of the mileage traversed within
that state on the trips in issue, i. e. 57.47%. Lehigh
Valley R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, supra, and United States
Express Co. v. Minnesota, supra, did not involve this
question since the gross receipts taxes had there been
prorated by the respective states before reaching this
Court, and Ewing v. Leavenworth, supra, was concerned
only with a flat license tax. While Cornell Steamboat
Co. v. Sohmer,. supra, did involve an unapportioned gross
receipts tax, the facts were such as to make it impossible
to determine what proportion of the journeys took place
outside New. York; the precise issue was thus unresolved.
The rule requiring apportionment of gross receipts
taxes to the activities carried on within a state is one that
is neces9arily predicated upon the existence of some interstate activities which the commerce clause places beyond
the taxing power of the state. See Ratterman v. Western
Union Tel. Co., 127 U. S. 411; Wisconsin & M. R. Co. v.
Powers, 191 U. S. 379. It is designed to prevent the levying of such taxes as will discriminate against or prohibit
the interstate activities or will place the interstate commerce at a disadvantage relative to local commerce. But
5 The proper result in this case is aptly paraphrased in Lehigh Valley R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 145 U. S. 192, 201-202: "So as to the
traffic of the Erie Railway between the cities of New York and
Buffalo, we do not understand that that company escapes taxation in
respect of that part of its business because some miles of its road
are in Pennsylvania, while the New York Central is taxed as to its
business between the same places, because its rails are wholly within
the State of New York."

GREYHOUND LINES v. MEALEY.
653

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

this rule obviously is inapplicable where the tax is not
levied on what is appropriately labelled interstate commerce. And as we have seen, New York ,here has levied
a tax solely upon the local business of transporting passengers between points in that state, which constitutes the
furnishing of utilities within the meaning of the New
York Tax Law. The fact that 42.53%7o of the transportation occurs outside New York does not make that business any less local. From the commercial standpoint, the
out-of-state segment of the journey retains its position
as an integral part of the continuous local transaction.
The proportion of the transportation actually taking
place within or without New York thus has no commerce
clause significance under these circumstances. Inasmuch as the restrictive force of the commerce clause is
non-effective, New York is entitled to tax the total gross
receipts from this local commerce.
This result does not permit other states, within the
framework of the commerce clause, to tax the local business of transporting passengers between New York points.
What is local business as to New York is not local business as to New Jersey or Pennsylvania. The elements
which justify New York's unapportioned tax exist only in
that state. If New Jersey or Pennsylvania were to tax a
portion of appellant's gross receipts from the transportation in issue, such tax would involve quite different constitutional considerations than those which sustain the
New York tax. Since New Jersey and Pennsylvania
would have an interest in the situation because of the
physical movements occurring within their borders, concentration would have to be placed upon the interstate
aspect of the transportation. The problem would then
be whether these states could constitutionally tax the
portion of the gross receipts derived from the mileage
* traversed therein. If such taxes were sustained, the resulting multiple burden on the gross receipts would sim-

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

334 U. S.

ply be a natural consequence of conducting a local business in such a manner as to use the facilities of more
But that type of multiple burden is not

states than one.

outlawed by the commerce clause. Nor does the possibility of such a burden make the business of transporting persons between points in New York any less local
in nature.

I would therefore affirm the judgment below.

WADE v. MAYO, STATE PRISON CUSTODIAN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 40.

Submitted October 13, 1947.-Resubmitted
1948.-Decided June 14, 1948.

March 9,

1. Imprisoned under a Florida state court conviction of a non-capital
offense, petitioner sought release by habeas corpus in a state court,
claiming denial of his federal constitutional right to counsel. An
appeal from a judgment denying relief was dismissed by the state
supreme court on the merits. At the time of the state supreme
court's action, its judgment apparently could have rested on an
adequate non-federal ground, but in a later case.the court made
clear that it had decided the federal constitutional question. Held:
Although petitioner did not seek certiorari from this Court to
review the judgment of the state supreme court, it was within the
discretion of the federal district court to entertain an application
by petitioner for a writ of habeas corpus and to proceed to a
determination of petitioner's federal constitutional claim. Pp.
674-682.
(a) The failure of petitioner to appeal from the judgment of
conviction does not bar relief, since it appears that a defendant
who is denied counsel in a non-capital case in Florida may raise.
the constitutional question either by appeal from the.convictiQn
or by habeas corpus, and pursuit of one of the two alternative
remedies satisfies the requirement of exhaustion of state remedies.
Pp. 677-678.
(b) This Court accepts the pronouncement by the state supreme
court in a later .case that its decision in petitioner's habeas corpus

