UNITED STATES v. PARAMOUNT PICTURES. 131
Syllabus.
UNITED STATES v. PARAMOUNT PICTURES,
INC. ET AL.
NO. 79.
APPEAL FROM, THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED
STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.*

Argued February 9-11, 1948.-Decided May 3, 1948.
The United States sued to restrain violations of §§ 1 and 2 of the
Sherman Act by (1) five corporations which produce motion
pictures and their respective subsidiaries or affiliates which distribute and exhibit films and own or control theatres, (2) two
corporations which produce motion pictures and their subsidiaries
which distribute films, and (3) one corporation engaged only in
the distribution of motion pictures. The complaint charged that
the first group of defendants conspired to and did restrain and
monopolize interstate trade in the exhibition of motion pictures
in most of the larger cities of the country and that their combination of producing, distributing and exhibiting motion pictures
violated §§ 1 and 2 of the Act. It also charged that all of the
defendants, as distributors, conspired to and did restrain and
monopolize interstate trade in the distribution and exhibition of
films. After a trial, the District Court granted an injunction and
other relief. Held:
1. The District Court's finding that price-fixing conspiracies existed between all defendants and between each distributor-defendant and its licensees, which resulted in exhibitors being required
to charge substantially uniform minimum admission prices, is
sustained. Pp. 141-142.
2. Its injunction against defendants or their affiliates granting
any license (except to their own theatres) in which minimum prices
for admission to a theatre are fixed, i- custained. Pp. 142-144.
*Together with No. 80, Loew's, Incorporated et al. v. United
States; No. 81, Paramount Pictures, Inc. et al. v. United States;
No. 82, Columbia Pictures Corp. et al. N'.United States; No. 83,
United Artists Corp. v. United States; No. 84, Universal Corp.
et al. v. United States; No. 85, American Theatres Assn.. Inc. et al.
v. United States et al.; and No. 86, Allred et al. v. United States
et al., also on appeal from the same court.

132

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

334 U. S.

(a) The fact that defendants owned copyrights to their films
and merely licensed their use by exhibitors did not entitle them
to conspire with each other to fix uniform prices of admission to
be charged by exhibitors. P. 143.
(b) Nor did it justify the conspiracy between each distributordefendant and its licensees to fix and maintain uniform minimun
admission prices which had the effect of suppressing price competition between exhibitors. Pp. 143-144.
(c) A copyright may no more be used than a patent to deter
competition between rivals in the exploitation of their licenses.
P. 144.
3. The District Court's finding that there was a conspiracy.
to restrain trade by imposing unreasonable "clearances" is sustained. Pp. 144-147.
4. Its injunction against defendants and their affiliates agreeing with each other or with any exhibitors or distributors to
maintain a system of "clearances," or granting any "clearance'!
between theatres not in substantial competition, or granting or
enforcing any "clearance" against theatres in substantial competition with the theatre receiving the license for. exhibition in
excess of what is reasonably necessary to protect the licensee, is
sustained. Pp. 147-148.
(a) A request that it be construed or modified so as to allow
licensors in granting "clearances" to take into consideration what
is reasonably necessary for a fair return to the licensor is rejected.
Pp. 147-148.
(b) In the setting of this case, the only measure of reasonableness of a clearance by Sherman Act standards is the special needs
of the licensee for the competitive advantages it affords. P. 148.
5. A provision of the decree that, "Whenever any clearance
provision is attacked as not legal . . .the burden shall be upon

the distributor to sustain the legality thereof," is sustained. P.
148.
6. The District Court's finding that the exhibitor-defendants
had "pboling agreements" whereby normally competitive theatres
were operated as a unit, or managed by a joint committee or
by one of the exhibitors, the profits being shared according to
prearranged percentages, and that these agreements resulted in
the elimifiati6n of competition pro tanto both in exhibition and in
distribution of feature pictures, is sustained. P. 149.

UNITED STATES v. PARAMOUNT PICTURES. 133
131

Syllabus.

7. Its requirement that existing "pooling agreements" be dissolved and its injunction against any future arrangement of that
character are sustained. P. 149.
8. Its findings as to the restraint of trade by means of arrangements under which many theatres are owned jointly by two or
more exhibitor-defendants, its requirement that the exhibitor-defendants terminate such joint ownership of theatres, and its injunction against future acquisitions of such interests, are sustained.
Pp. 149-15i.
9. Its order that certain other relationships involving joint ownership of theatres by an exhibitor-defendant and an independent
be dissolved and its injunction against future acquisitions of such
joint interests must be revised after further inquiries and findings
upon remand of the cases. Pp. 151-153.
(a) It erred in failing to inquire into the circumstances under
which each particular interest had been acquired and in treating
all relationships alike in this portion of the decree. P. 152.
(b) To the extent that these acquisitions were the fruits of
monopolistic practices or restraints of trade, they should be divested and no permission to buy out the other owner should be
given a defendant. P. 152.
(c) Even if lawfully acquired, divestiture of such interests
would be justified if they have been utilized as part of the conspiracy to eliminate or suppress competition. P. 152.
(d) If the joint ownership is an alliance with one who is or
would be an operator but for the joint ownership, divorce should
be decreed, even though the affiliation was innocently acquired.
P. 153.
(e) In those instances where joint ownership involves no more
than innocent investments by those who are not actual or potential
operators and it was not used in furtherance of the conspiracy
and did not result in a monopoly, its retention by defendants would
be justified and they might be given permission to acquire the
interests of the independents on a showing by them and a finding
by the Court that neither monopoly nor unreasonable restraint
of trade in the exhibition of films would result. P. 153.
10. The District Court's findings that certain "formula deals"
covering the exhibition of feature pictures in entire circuits of
theatres and certain "master agreements" covering their exhibition
in two or more theatres in a particular circuit unlawfully restrain

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

334 U. S.

trade, and its injunction against the making or further performance of such arrangements, are sustained. Pp. 153-155.
(a) Such arrangements are devices for stifling competition
and diverting the cream of the business to the large operators.
P. 154.
(b) The pooling of the purchasing power of an entire circuit
in bidding for films is a misuse of monopoly power insofar as it
combines theatres having no competitors with those having competitors. United States v. Griffith, ante, p. 100; Schine Chain
Theatres v. United States, ante, p. 110. Pp. 154-155.
(c) Distributors who join in such arrangements by exhibitors
are active participants in effectuating a restraint of trade and a
monopolistic practice. P. 155.
11. The findings of the District Court with reference to "franchises" whereby exhibitors obtain all feature pictures released by
a distributor over a period of more than a motion picture season
are set aside, so that the court may examine the problem in the
light of the elimination from the decree of the provision for compet,. ,ebidding. Pp. 155-156.
12 On the record in this case, it cannot be said that "franchises"
are illegal per se when extended to any theatre or circuit no matter
how small. P. 156.
13. The findings of the District Court as to "block-booking"
and its injunction against defendants performing or entering into
any license in which the right to exhibit one feature is conditioned
upon the licensee's taking one or more other features, are sustained.
Pp.156-159.
(a)The result of this practice isto add to the monopoly of
the copyright in violation of the principle of the patent cases involving tying clauses. P. 158.
(b) Transparent-WrapMachine Corp. v. Stokes & Smith Co.,
329 U. S.637, distinguished. 'P.159.
(c) The selling of films in blocks or groups, when there is
no requirement, express or implied, for the purchase of more than
one film is not illegal; but it is illegal to refuse to license one or
more copy rights unies another copyright isaccepted. P.159.
14. The provision of the decree regulating the practice of "blindselling," whereby a distributor licenses a feature picture before
the exhibitor is afforded an opportunity to view it, is sustained.
P.157, n.11.
15. The District Court's findings that defendants had unreasonably discriminated against small independent exhibitors and in

UNITED STATES v. PARAMOUNT PICTURES.
131

135 :

Syllabus.

favor of large affiliated and unaffiliated circuits through various
kinds of contract provisions and that these discriminations resulted
in restraints of trade in violation of the Sherman Act, are sustained. Pp. 159-160.
16. On remand of these cases, the District Court should provide
effective relief against continuance of these discriminatory practices, in the light of the elimination from the decree of the provision
for competitive bidding. P. 161.
17. That large exhibitors with whom defendants dealt fathered
the illegal practices and forced them onto defendants is no excuse,
if true; since acquiescence in an illegal scheme is as much a violation of the Sherman Act as the creation and promotion of one.
P. 1.61.
18. The requirement of the decree that films be licensed on a
competitive bidding basis should be eliminated, because it would
involve the judiciary too deeply in the daily operation of this
nation-wide business and would uproot business arrangements and
established relationships without opening up to competition the
markets which defendants' unlawful restraints have dominated.
Pp. 161-166.
19. On remand of these cases, the freedom of the District Court
to reconsider the adequacy of the decree in the light of the elimination of the provision for competitive bidding is not limited to
those parts specifically indicated. P. 166.
20. Motion pictures, like newspapers and radio, are included in
the press whose freedom is guaranteed by the First Amendment;
but the problem involved in these cases bears only remotely, if
at all, on any question of freedom of the press, save only as timeliness of release may be a factor of importance in specific situations.
Pp. 166-167.
21. The findings of the District Court on the subjects of monopoly in exhibition and the need for divestiture are set aside as
being deficient in the light of the principles stated in this opinion,
in United States v. Griflith, ante, p. 100, and in Schine Chain Theatres v. United States, ante, p. 110, and because of the elimination
from the decree of the provisions for competitive bidding. The
injunction against the five major defendants expanding their theatre holdings in any manner is also set aside, in order that the
District Court may make an entirely fresh start on these phases
of the problems. Pp. 167-175.
(a) In determining the need for divestiture, it is not enough
to conclude, as the District Court did, that none of the defendants

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

334 U. S.

was organized or has been maintained for the purpose of achieving
a "national monopoly," nor that the five major defendants through
their present theatre holdings "alone" do not and cannot collectively or individually have a monopoly of exhibition. P. 171.
(b) When the starting point is a conspiracy to effect a monopoly through restraints of trade, it is relevant to determine what
the results of the conspiracy were, even if they fell short of
monopoly. P. 171.
(c) While a monopoly resulting from the ownership of the
only theatre in a town usually does not constitute a violation of
the Sherman Act, even such an ownership is vulnerable in a suit
under the Sherman Act if the property was acquired, or its
strategic position maintained, as a result of practices which constitute unreasonable restraints of trade. United States v. Griffith,
ante, p. 100. P. 171.
(d) The problein of the District Court did not end with
enjoining continuance of the unlawful restraints nor with dissolving
the combination which launched their conspiracy; its function
includes also 'undoing what the conspiracy achieved. P. 171.
(e) The problem under the Sherman Act is not solved merely
by measuring monopoly in terms of size or extent of holdings or
by concluding that single ownerships were not obtained "for the
purpose of achieving a national monopoly." P. 172.
(f) It is the relationship of the unreasonable restraints of
trade to the position of the defendants in the exhibition field (and
more particularly in the first-run phase of that business) that
is of first importance on the divestiture phase of these cases.
P. 172.
(g) The fruits of the conspiracy must be denied to the five
major defendants, as they were to the independents in Schine
Chain Theatres v. United States, ante, p. 110. P. 172.
(h) Section 1 of the Sherman Act outlaws unreasonable restraints irrespective of the amount of trade or commerce involved
and § 2 condemns monopoly of any appreciable part of trade or
commerce. P. 173.
(i) Specific intent is not a necessary element of a purpose
or intent to create a monopoly; the requisite purpose or intent
is present if monopoxy results as a necessary consequence of what
was done. P. 173.
(j) Monopoly power, whether lawfully or unlawfully acquired,
may violate § 2 of the Sherman Act though it remains unexercised;
the existence of the power to exclude competition when it is

UNITED STATES v. PARAMOUNT PICTURES. 137
Syllabus.

131

desired to do so is itself a violation of § 2, if it is coupled with
the purpose or intent to exercise that power. P. 173.
(k) The setting aside of the provision of the decree enjoining
the five major defendants from further expanding their theatre
holdings is not to be taken as intimating in any way that the
District Court erred in including this prohibition. P. 175.
22. Vertical integration of producing, distributing and exhibiting
motion pictures is not illegal per se; its legality depends upon
(1) the purpose or intent with which it was conceived or (2) the
power it creates and the attendant purpose or intent. Pp. 173-174.
(a) It violates the Sherman Act if it was a calculated scheme
to gain control over an appreciable segment of the market and
to restrain or suppress competition, rather than an expansion to
meet legitimate business needs. P. 174.
(b) A vertically integrated enterprise will constitute a monopoly which, though unexercised, violates the Sherman Act, if a power
to exclude competition is coupled with a purpose or intent to do
so. P. 174.
(c) The fact that the power created by size was utilized in
the past to crush or prevent competition is potent evidence that
the requisite purpose or intent attends the presence of monopoly
power. P. 174.
(d) Likewise bearing on the question whether monopoly power
is created by a vertical integration, is the nature of the market
to be served and the leverage on the market which the particular
vertical integration creates or makes possible. P. 174.
23. Whether an injunction against the licensing of films among
the five major defendants would, in the absence of competitive
bidding, serve as a short-range remedy in certain situations to
dissipate the effects of the conspiracy is a question for the District
Court. P. 175.
24. The.District Court has no power to force or require parties
to submit to arbitration in lieu of the remedies afforded by Congress for enforcing the antitrust laws; but it may authorize the
maintenance of a voluntary system of arbitration by those parties
who consent, and it may provide the rules and procedure under
which such a system is to operate. P. 176.
(a) The Government did not consent to a permanent system
of arbitration under the consent decree. 'P.176.
(b) Whether a voluntary system of arbitration should be
inaugurated is for the discretion of the District Court. P. 176.
792588 O-48----14

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Counsel for Parties.

334 U. S.

25. In view of the elimination from the decree of the provision
for competitive bidding, the District Court's denial of motions of
certain associations of exhibitors and a number of independent
exhibitors for leave to intervene in.opposition to the system of
competitive bidding is affirmed and their motions for leave to
intervene in this Court are denied. Pp. 176-178.
66 F. Supp. 323; 70 F. Supp. 53, affirmed in part and reversed in part.

In a suit by the United States to restrain violations of
§§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act by major motion picture
producers, distributors and exhibitors, the District Court
granted an injunction and other relief. 66 F. Supp.
323; 70 F. Supp. 53. On appeal to this Court, affirmed
in part, reversed in part and remanded, p. 178.
Attorney General Clark and Assistant Attorney General Sonnett argued the cause for the United States in
No. 79, and Robert L. Wright for the United States in
Nos. 80-86. Solicitor General Perlman, Mr. Sonnett,
Mr. Wright, Kenneth L. Kimble, Stanley M. Silverberg
and Philip Marcuswere on the briefs.
John W. Davis argued the cause for Loew's Incorporated, appellant in No. 80. With him on the brief were
J. Robert Rubin, S. Hazard Gillespie, Jr. and Benjamin
Melniker.
William J. Donovan argued the cause for the RadioKeith-Orpheum Corp. et al., appellants in No. 80. With
him on the brief were George S. Leisure, Ralstone R.
Irvine, Gordon E. Youngman and Roy W. McDonald.
Joseph M. Proskauerargued the cause for Warner Bros.
Pictures, Inc. et al., appellants in No. 80. With him on
the brief were Robert W. Perkinsand Harold Berkowitz.
James F. Byrnes argued the cause for the Twentieth
Century-Fox Film Corp. et al., appellants in No. 80.

UNITED STATES v. PARAMOUNT PICTURES. 139
131

Counsel for Parties.

With him on the brief were Otto E. Koegel, John F. Caskey and Frederick W. R. Pride.
Whitney North Seymour argued the cause for Paramount Pictures, Inc. et al., appellants in No. 81. With
him on the brief were Louis Phillips and Albert C.
Bickford.
Louis D. Frohlich argued the cause for Columbia Pictures Corp. et al., appellants in No. 82. With him on
the brief was Arthur H. Schwartz.
George A. Raftery argued the cause for the United
Artists Corp., appellant in No. 83. With him on the
brief were Edward C. Raftery and Arthur F. Driscoll.
T. Newman Lawler was also of counsel.
Thomas Turner Cooke argued the cause for Universal
Pictures Co., Inc. et al., appellants in No. 84. With him
on the brief were Adolph Schimel and Frank W. Ford.
Thurman Arnold argued the cause for the American
Theatres Association, Inc. et al., appellants in No. 85.
With him on the brief were Paul Williams and Milton W.
Freeman.
John G. Jackson and Robert T. Barton, Jr. argued the
cause for Allred et al., appellants in No. 86. With them
on the brief was George B. Brooks.
Briefs of amici curiae supporting the United States in
No. 79 were filed by Abram F. Myers for the Conference
of Independent Exhibitors' Associations; Morris L. Ernst,
Loyd Wright and James M. Barnes for the Society of
Independent Motion Picture Producers; Herman M.
Levy for independent members of the Motion Picture
Theatre. Owners of America; and Harold J. Sherman,
Wendell Berge, James Lawrence Fly and C. Dickerman
Williams for the American Civil Liberties Union.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

334 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These cases are here on appeal 1 from a judgment of
a three-judge District Court 2 holding that the defendants
had violated § 1 and §2 of the Sherman Act, 26 Stat. 209,
as amended, 50 Stat. 693, 15 U. S. C. §§ 1, 2, and granting
an injunction and other relief. 66 F. Supp. 323; 70 F.
Supp. 53.
The suit was instituted by the United States under § 4
of the Sherman Act to prevent and restrain violations of
it. The defendants fall into three groups: (1) Paramount Pictures, Inc., Loew's, Incorporated, Radio-KeithOrpheum Corporation, Warner Bros. Pictures, Inc.,
Twentieth Century-Fox Film Corporation, which produce
motion pictures, and their respective subsidiaries or affiliates which distribute and exhibit films. These are
known as the five major defendants or exhibitor-defendants. (2) Columbia Pictures Corporation and Universal
Corporation, which produce motion pictures, and their
subsidiaries which distribute films. (3) United Artists
Corporation, which is engaged only in the distribution
of motion pictures. The five majors, through their subsidiaries or affiliates, own or control theatres; the other
defendants do not.
The complaint charged that the producer defendants
had attempted to monopolize and had monopolized the
production of motion pictures. The District Court found
to the contrary and that finding is not challenged here.
The complaint charged that all the defendants, as distributors, had conspired to restrain and monopolize and
2 of the Expediting Act of February
as amended, 15 U. S. C. § 29, and § 238 of
amended.by the Act of February 13, 1925,
U. S. C. § 345.
2 The court was convened pursuant to the
of April 6, 1942, 56 Stat. 198, 199, 15 U. S. C.
1Sec.

11, 1903, 32 Stat. 823,
the Judicial Code, as
43 Stat. 936, 938, 28
provisions of the Act
§ 28.

UNITED STATES v. PARAMOUNT PICTURES. 141
131

Opinion of the Court.

had restrained and monopolized interstate trade in the
distribution and exhibition of films by specific practices
which we will shortly relate. It also charged that the five
major defendants had engaged in a conspiracy to restrain
and monopolize, and had restrained and monopolized,
interstate trade in the exhibition of motion pictures in
most of the larger cities of the country. It charged that
the vertical combination of producing, distributing, and
exhibiting motion pictures by each of the five major defendants violated § 1 and § 2 of the Act. It charged that
each distributor-defendant had entered into various contracts with exhibitors which unreasonably restrained
trade. Issue was joined; and a trial was had.'
First. Restraint of Trade-(1) Price Fixing.

No film is sold to an exhibitor in the distribution
of motion pictures. The right to exhibit under copyright is licensed. The District Court found that the
defendants in the licenses they issued fixed minimum
admission prices which the exhibitors agreed to charge,
whether the rental of the film was a flat amount
or a percentage of the receipts. It found that substantially uniform minimum prices had been established in
the licenses of all defendants. Minimum prices were
established in master agreements or franchises which were
made between various defendants as distributors and
various defendants as exhibitors and in joint operating agreements made by the five majors with each other
SBefore trial, negotiations for a settlement were undertaken.
As a result, a consent decree against the five major defendants
was entered November 20, 1940. The consent decree contained no
admission of violation of law and adjudicated no issue of fact or law,
except that the complaint stated a cause of action. The decree reserved to the United States the right at the end of a three-year trial
period to seek the relief prayed for in the amended complaint. After
the end of the three-year period the United States moved for trial
against all the defendants.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

and with independent theatre owners covering the operation of certain theatres.' By these later contracts minimum admission prices were often fixed for dozens of
theatres owned by a particular defendant in a given area
of the United States. Minimum prices were fixed in
licenses of each of the five major defendants. The other
three defendants made the same requirement in licenses
granted to the exhibitor-defendants. We do not stop
to elaborate on these findings. They are adequately
detailed by the District Court in its opinion. See 66 F:
Supp. 334-339.
The District Court found that two price-fixing conspiracies existed-a horizontal one between all the defendants; a vertical one between each distributor-defendant and its licensees. The latter was based on express
agreements and was plainly established. The former was
inferred from the pattern of price-fixing disclosed in the
record. We think there was adequate foundation for it
too. It is not necessary to find an express agreement in
order to find a conspiracy. It is enough that a concert of
action is contemplated and that the defendants conformed
to the arrangement. Interstate Circuit v. United States,
306 U. S. 208, 226-227; United States v. Masonite Corp.,
316 U. S. 265, 275. That was shown here.
On this phase of the case the main attack is on the
decree which enjoins the defendants and'. their affili' A master agreement is a licensing agreement or "blanket deal"
covering the exhibition of features in a number of theatres, usually
comprising a circuit.
A franchise is a licensing agreement, or series of licensing agreements, entered into as part of the same transaction, in effect for
more than one motion picture season and covering the exhibition of
features released by one distributor during the entire period of the
agreement.
An independent as used in these cases means a producer, distributor,
or exhibitor, as the context requires, which is not a defendant in the
action, or a subsidiary or affiliate of a defendant.

UNITED STATES v. PARAMOUNT PICTURES. 143
131

Opinion of the Court.

ates from granting any license, except to their own
theatres, in which minimum prices for admission to a
theatre are fixed in any manner or by any means. The
argument runs as follows: United States v. General Electric Co., 272 U. S. 476, held that an owner of a patent
could, without violating the Sherman Act, grant a license
to manufacture and vend, and could fix the price at which
the licensee could sell the .patented article. It is pointed
out that defendants do not sell the films to exhibitors,
but only license them and that the Copyright Act (35
Stat. 1075, 1088, 17 U. S. C. § 1), like the patent statutes, grants the owner exclusive rights.' And it is
argued that if the patentee can fix the price at which
his licensee may sell the patented article, the owner of the
copyright should be allowed the same privilege. It is
maintained that such a privilege is essential to protect
the value of the copyrighted films.
We start, of course, from the premise that so far as the
Sherman Act is concerned, a price-fixing combination is
illegal per se. United States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co.,
310 U. S. 150; United States v. Masonite Corporation,
supra. We recently held in United States v. Gypsum Co.,
333 U. S.364, 400, that even patentees could not regiment
an entire industry by licenses containing price-fixing
agreements. What was said there is adequate to'bar
defendants, through their horizontal conspiracy, from fixing prices for the exhibition of films in the movie industry.
Certainly the rights of the copyright owner are no greater
than those of the patentee.
Nor can the result be different when we come to the
vertical conspiracy between each distributor-defendant
and his licensees. The District Court stated in its findings:
"In agreeing to maintain a stipulated minimum
admission price, each exhibitor thereby consents to
5See note 12, inf ra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

the minimum price level at which it will compete
against other licensees of the same distributor
whether they exhibit on the same run or not. The
total effect is that through the separate contracts between the distributor and its licensees a price structure is erected which regulates the lioensees' ability
to compete against one another in admission prices."
That consequence seems to us to be incontestable. We
stated in United States v. Gypsum Co., supra, p. 401, that
"The rewards which flow to the patentee and his licensees
from the suppression of competition through the regulation of an industry are not reasonably and normally
adapted to secure pecuniary reward for the patentee's
monopoly." The same is true of the rewards of the copyright owners and their licensees in the present case. For
here too the licenses are but a part of the general plan
to suppress competition. The case where a distributor
fixes admission prices to be charged by a single independent exhibitor, no other licensees or exhibitors being in
contemplation, seems to be wholly academic, as the District Court pointed out. It is, therefore, plain that
United States v. General Electric Co., supra, as applied
in the patent cases, affords no haven to the defendants
in this case. For a copyright may no more be used than
a patent to deter competition between rivals in the exploitation of their licenses. See Interstate Circuit v.
United States, supra, p. 230.
(2) Clearancesand Runs.
Clearances are designed to protect a particular run of
a film against a subsequent run.' The District Court
6 A clearance is the period of time, usually stipulated in license con-

tracts, which must elapse between runs of the same feature within a
particular area or in specified theatres.
Runs are successive exhibitions of a feature in a given area, firstrun being the first exhibition in that area, second-run being the next

UNITED STATES v. PARAMOUNT PICTURES. 145
131

Opinion of the Court.

found that all of the distributor-defendants used clearance
provisions and that they were stated in several different
ways or in combinations: in terms of a given period between designated runs; in terms of admission prices
charged by competing theatres; in terms of a given period
of clearance over specifically named theatres; in terms of
so many days' clearance over specified areas or towns;
or in terms of clearances as fixed by other distributors.
The Department of Justice maintained below that
clearances are unlawful per se under the Sherman Act.
But that is a question we need not consider, for the
District Court ruled otherwise and that conclusion is
In its view their justification was
not challenged here.
found in the assurance they give the exhibitor that the
distributor will not license a competitor to show the film
either at the same time or so soon thereafter that the
exhibitor's expected income from the run will be greatly
diminished. A clearance when used to protect that interest of the exhibitor was reasonable, in the view of
the court, when not unduly extended as to area or duration. Thus the court concluded that although clearances
might indirectly affect admission prices, they do not fix
them and that they may be reasonable restraints of trade
under the Sherman Act.
The District Court held that in determining whether a
clearance is unreasonable, the following factors are relevant:
(1) The admission prices of the theatres involved,
as set by the exhibitors;
(2) The character and location of the theatres involved, including size, type of entertainment, appointments, transit facilities, etc.;
subsequent, and so on, and include successive exhibitions in different
theatres, even though such theatres may be under a common ownership or management.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

(3) The policy of operation of the theatres involved, such as the showing of double features, gift
nights, give-aways, premiums, cut-rate tickets, lotteries, etc.;
(4) The rental terms and license fees paid by the
theatres involved and the revenues derived by the
distributor-defendant from such theatres;
(5) The extent to which the theatres involved
compete with each other for patronage;
(6) The fact that a theatre involved is affiliated
with a defendant-distributor or with an independent
circuit of theatres should be disregarded ;.and
(7) There should be no clearance between theatres
not in substantial competition.
It reviewed the evidence in light of these standards and
concluded that many of the clearances granted by the
defendants were unreasonable. We do not stop to retrace
those steps. The evidence is ample to show, as the District Court plainly demonstrated, see 66 F. Supp. pp. 343346, that many clearances had no relation to the competitive factors which alone could justify them. The
clearances which were in vogue had, indeed, acquired a
fixed and uniform character and were made applicable
to situations without regard to the special circumstances
which are necessary to sustain them as reasonable restraints of trade. The evidence is ample to support the
Thus the District Court found:
"Some licenses granted clearance to sell to all theatres which the
exhibitor party to the contract might thereafter own, lease, control,
manage, or operate against all theatres in the immediate vicinity of
the exhibitor's theatre thereafter erected or opened. The purpose
of this type of clearance agreements was to fix the run and clearance
status of any theatre thereafter opened not on the basis of its appointments, size, location, and other competitive features normally
entering into such determination,' but rather upon the sole basis of
whether it were operated by the exhibitor party to the agreement."
7

UNITED STATES v. PARAMOUNT PICTURES. 147
131

Opinion of the Court.

finding of the District Court that the defendants either
participated in evolving this uniform system of clearances
or acquiesced in*it and so furthered its existence. That
evidence, like the evidence on the price-fixing phase of
the case, is therefore adequate to support the finding of
a conspiracy to restrain trade by imposing unreasonable
clearances.
The District Court enjoined defendants and their affiliates from agreeing with each other or with any exhibitors
or distributors to maintain a system of olearances, or from
granting any clearance between .theatres not in substantial
competition, or from granting or enforcing any clearance
against theatres in substantial competition with the theatre receiving the license for exhibition in excess of what
is reasonably necessary. to protect the licensee in the run
granted. In view of the findings this relief was plainly
warranted.
Some of the defendants ask that this provision be
construed (or, if necessary, modified) to allow licensors
in granting clearances to take into consideration what
is reasonably necessary for a fair return to the licensor.
We reject that suggestion. If that were allowed, then
the exhibitor-defendants would have an easy method of
keeping alive at least some of- the consequences of the
effective conspiracy which they launched. For they
could then justify clearances granted by other distributors
in favor of their theatres in terms of the competitive
requirements of those theatres, and at the same time
justify the restrictions they impose upon independents in
terms of the necessity of protecting their film rental as
licensor. That is too potent a weapon to leave in the
hands of. those whose proclivity to unlawful conduct has
been so marked. It plainly should not be allowed so long
as the exhibitor-defendants own theatres. For in its baldest terms it is in the hands of the defendants no less than
a power to restrict the competition df others in the way

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

deemed most desirable by them. In the setting of this
case the only measure of reasonableness of a clearance by
Sherman Act standards is the special needs of the licensee
for the competitive advantages it affords.
Whether the same restrictions would be applicable to
a producer who had not been a party to such a conspiracy
is a question we do not reach.
Objection is made to a further provision of this part
of the decree stating that "Whenever any clearance provision is attacked as not legal under the provisions of this
decree, the burden shall be upon the distributor to sustain
the legality thereof." We think that provision was justified. Clearances have been used along with price fixing
to suppress competition with the theatres of the exhibitordefendants and with other favored exhibitors. The District Court could therefore have eliminated clearances
completely for a substantial period of time, even though,
as it thought, they were not illegal per se. For equity
has the power to uproot all parts of an illegal schemethe valid as well as the invalid-in order to rid the trade
or commerce of all taint of the conspiracy. United States
v. Bausch & Lomb Co., 321 U. S. 707, 724. The court
certainly then could take the lesser step of making them
prima facie invalid. But we do not rest on that alone.
As we have said, the only justification for clearances in
the setting of this case is in terms of the special needs
of the licensee for the competitive advantages they afford.
To place on the distributor the burden of showing their
reasonableness is to place it on the one party in the best
position to evaluate their competitive effects. Those who
have shown such a marked proclivity for unlawful conduct are in no position to complain that they carry the
burden of showing that their future clearances come
within the law. Cf. United States v. Crescent Amusement Co., 323 U. S. 173, 188.

UNITED STATES v. PARAMOUNT PICTURES. 149
131

Opinion of the Court.

(3) Pooling Agreements; Joint Ownership.
The Disttict Court found the exhibitor-defendants had
agreements with each other and their affiliates by which
theatres of two or more of them, normally competitive,
were operated as a unit, or managed by a joint committee
or by one of the exhibitors, the profits being shared accordingto prearranged percentages. Some of these agreements provided that the parties might not acquire other
competitive theatres without first offering them for inclusion in the pool. The court concluded that the result
of these agreements was to eliminate competition pro
tanto both in exhibition and in distribution of features,8
since the parties would naturally direct -the films to the
theatres in whose earnings they were interested.
The District Court also found that the exhibitordefendants had like agreements with pertain independent
exhibitors'. Those alliances had, in its view, the effect of
nullifying competition between the allied theatres and of
making more effective the competition of the group
against theatres not members of the pool. The court
found that in some cases the operating agreements were
achieved through leases of theatres, the rentals being
measured by a percentage of profits earned by the theatres
in the pool. The District Court required the dissolution
of existing pooling agreements and enjoined any future
arrangement of that character.
These provisions of tl~e decree will stand. The practices were bald efforts to substitute monopoly for competition and to strengthen the hold of the exhibitor-defendants on the industry by alignment of competitors on their
side. Clearer restraints of trade are difficult to imagine.
There was another type of business arrangement that
the District Court found to have the same effect as the
8

A feature is any motion picture, regardless of topic, the length

of film of which is in excess of 4,000 feet.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

pooling agreements just mentioned. Many theatres are
owned jointly by two or more exhibitor-defendants or by
an exhibitor-defendant and an independent.' The result
is, according to the District Court, that the theatres are
operated "collectively, rather than competitively." And
where the joint owners are an exhibitor-defendant and
an independent the effect is, according to the District
Court, the elimination by the exhibitor-defendant of
"putative competition between itself and the other joint
owner, who otherwise would be in a position to operate
theatres independently." The District Court found these
joint ownerships of theatres to be unreasonable restraints
of trade within the meaning of the Sherman Act.
The District Court ordered the exhibitor-defendants to
disaffiliate by terminating their joint ownership of the9 Theatres jointly owned with independents:
Paramount ......................................
Warner .........................................

993
20

Fox ............................................

66

R KO ...........................................

187

Loew 's ..........................................

21

Total ....................................... 1287
Theatres jointly owned by two defendants:

Paramount-Fox ..................................
Paramount-Loew's ................................
Paramount-W arner ................................
Paramount-RKO .................................
Loew's-RK O .....................................

Loew's-W arner ............. .....................
Fox-RKO .......................................
W arner-RKO .....................................
T otal .........................................

6
14
25
150

3
5
1
10
214

Of the 1287 jointly owned with independents, 209 would not be
affected by the decree since one of the ownership interests is less than
5 per cent, an amount which the District Court treated as de
minimis.

UNITED STATES v. PARAMOUNT PICTURES. 151
131

Opinion of the Court.

atres; and it enjoined future acquisitions of such interests.
One is authorized to buy out the other if it shows to the
satisfaction of the District Court and that court first finds
that such acquisition "will not unduly restrain competition in the exhibition of feature motion pictures." This
dissolution and prohibition of joint ownership as between
exhibitor-defendants was plainly warranted. To the extent that they have joint interests in the outlets for their
films each in practical effect grants the other a priority
for the exhibition of its films. For in this situation,
as in the case where theatres are jointly managed, the natural gravitation of films is to the theatres in whose earnings the distributors have an interest. Joint ownership
between exhibitor-defendants then becomes a device for
strengthening their competitive position as exhibitors by
forming an alliance as distributors. An express agreement to grant each other the preference would be a most
effective. weapon to stifle competition. A working arrangement or business device that has that necessary consequence gathers no immunity because of its subtlety.
Each is a restraint of trade condemned by the Sherman
Act.
The District Court also ordered disaffiliation in those
instances where theatres were jointly owned by an exhibitor-defendant and an independent, and where the
interest of the exhibitor-defendant was "greater than five
pet cent unless such interest shall be ninety-five per cent
or more," an independent being defined for this part of
the decree as "any former, present or putative motion
picture theatre operator which is not owned or controlled
by the defendant holding the interest in question." The
exhibitor-defendants are authorized to acquire existing
interests of the independents in these theatres if they
establish, and if the District Court first finds, that the
acquisition "will not unduly restrain competition in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

exhibition of feature motion pictures." All other acquisitions of such joint interests were enjoined.
This phase of the decree is strenuously attacked. We
are asked to eliminate it for lack of findings to support it.
The argument is that the findings show no more than
the existence of joint ownership of theatres by exhibitordefendants and independents. The statement by the
District Court that the joint ownership eliminates "putative competition" is said to be a mere conclusion without
evidentiary support. For it is said that the facts of the
record show that many of the instances of joint ownership
with an independent interest are cases wholly devoid of
any history of or relationship to restraints of trade or monopolistic practices. Some are said to be rather fortuitous results of bankruptcies; others are said to be the
results of investments by outside interests who have no
desire or capacity to operate theatres, and so on.
It is conceded that the District Court made no inquiry
into the circumstances under which a particular interest
had been acquired. It treated all relationships alike, insofar as the disaffiliation provision of the decree is concerned. In this we think it erred.
We have gone into the record far enough to be confident that at least some of these acquisitions by the exhibitor-defendants were the products of the unlawful
practices which the defendants have inflicted on the industry. To the extent. that these acquisitions were the
fruits of monopolistic practices or restraints of trade, they
should be divested. And no permission to buy out the
other owner should be given a defendant. United States
v. Crescent Amusement Co., supra, p. 189; Schine Chain
Theatres, Inc. v. United States, ante, p. 110. Moreover,
even if lawfully acquired, they may have been utilized as
part of the conspiracy to eliminate or suppress competition in furtherance of the ends of the conspiracy. In that
event divestiture would likewise be justified. United

UNITED STATES v. PARAMOUNT PICTURES. 153
131

Opinion of the Court.

States v. Crescent Amusement Co., supra, pp. 189-190.
In that situation permission to acquire the interest of the
independent would have the unlawful effect of permitting
the defendants to complete their plan to eliminate him.
Furthermore, if the joint ownership is an alliance with
one who is or would be an operator but for the joint ownership, divorce should be decreed even though the affiliation was innocently acquired. For that joint ownership
would afford opportunity to perpetuate the effects of the
restraints of trade which the exhibito?.defendants have
inflicted on the industry.
It seems, hpwever, that some of the cases of joint ownership do not fall into any of the categories we have
listed. Some apparently involve no more than i,-ocent
investments by those who are not actual or potetitial
operators. If in such cases the acquisition was not
improperly used in furtherance of the conspiracy, its re-,
tention by defendants would be justified absent a finding
that no monopoly resulted. And in those instances permission might be given the defendants to acquire the
interests of the independents on a showing by them and
a finding by the court that neither monopoly nor unreasonable restraint of trade in the exhibition of films would
result. In short, we see no reason to place a ban on this
type of ownership, at least so long as theatre ownership
by the five majors is not prohibited. The results of
inquiry along the lines we have indicated must await
further findings of the District Court on remand of the
cause.
(4) Formula Deals, Master Agreements, and Franchises.
A formula deal is a licensing agreement with a circuit
of theatres in which the license fee of a given feature is
measured, for the theatres covered by the agreement, by
a specified percentage of the feature's national gross.
The District Court found that Paramount and RKO
792588 0-48-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

had made formula deals with independent and affiliated circuits. The circuit was allowed to allocate playing
time and film rentals among the various theatres as it
saw fit. The inclusion of theatres of a circuit into a
single agreement gives no opportunity for other theatre
owners to bid for the feature in their respective areas
and, in the view of the District Court, is therefore an unreasonable restraint of trade. The District Court found
some master agreements I" open to the same objection.
Those are the master agreements that cover exhibition
in two or more theatres in a particular circuit and allow
the exhibitor to allocate the film rental paid among the
theatres as it sees fit and to exhibit the features upon
such playing time as it deems best, and leaves other terms
to the discretion of the circuit. The District Court enjoined the making or further performance of any formula
deal of the type described above. It also enjoined the
making or further performance of any master agreement
covering the exhibition of features in a number of
theatres.
The findi-ngs of the District Court in these respects
are supported by facts, its conclusion that the formula
deals and master agreements constitute restraint of tra-d
is valid, and -the relief is proper. The fqrmula deals
and master agreements are unlawful restraints of trade
in two respects. In the first place, they eliminate the
possibility of'bidding for films theatre by theatre. In
that way they eliminate, the opportunity for the small
competitor to obtain the ,choice first runs, and put a
premium on the size of the circuit. They are, therefore,
devices for stifling competition and diverting the cream
of the business to the large operators. In the second
place, the pooling of the purchasing power of an entire
circuit in bidding for films is a misuse of monopoly power
10 See naote 4. supra.

UNITED STATES v. PARAMOUNT PICTURES. 155
131

Opinion of the Court.

insofar as it combines the theatres in closed towns with
competitive situations. The reasons have been stated in
United States v. Griffith, ante, p. 100, and Schine Chain
Theatres, Inc. v. United States, ante, p. 110, and need not
be repeated here. It is hardly necessary to add that distributors who join in such arrangements by exhibitors are
active participants in effectuating a restraint of trade and
a monopolistic practice. See United States v. Crescent
Amusement Co., supra,p. 183.
The District Court also enjoined the making or further
performance of any franchise. A franchise is a contract
with an exhibitor which extends over a period of more
than a motion picture season and covers the exhibition
of features released by the distributor during the period
of the agreement. The District Court held that a franchise constituted a restraint of trade-because a period of
more than one season was too long and the inclusion of
all features was disadvantageous to competitors. At least
that is the way we read its findings.
Universal and United Artists object to the outlawry of
franchise agreements. Universal points out that the
charge of illegality of franchises in these cases was restricted to franchises with theatres owned by the major
defendants and to franchises with circuits or theatres in
a circuit, a circuit being defined in the complaint as a
group of more than five theatres controlled by the same
person or a group of more than five theatres which combine through a common agent in licensing films. It
seems, therefore, that the legality of franchises to other
exhibitors (except as to block-booking, a practice to which
we will later advert) iWas not in issue in the litigation.
Moreover, the findings on franchises are clouded by the
statement of the District Court in the opinion that franchises "necessarily contravene the plan of licensing each
picture, theatre by theatre, to the highest bidder." As
will be seen hereafter, we eliminate from the decree

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

the provision for competitive bidding. But for its inclusion of competitive bidding the District Court might well
have treated the problem of franchises differently.
We can see how if franchises were allowed to be used
between the exhibitor-defendants each might be able to
strengthen its strategic position in the exhibition field and
continue the ill effects of the conspiracy which the decree
is designed to dissipate. Franchise agreements may have
been employed as devices to discriminate against some
independents in favor of others. We know from the record that franchise agreements often contained discriminatory clauses operating in favor not only of theatres owned
by the defendants but also of the large circuits. But
we cannot say on this record that franchises are illegal
per se when extended to any theatre or circuit no matter
how small. The findings do not deal with the issue
doubtlessly due to the fact that any system of franchises
would necessarily conflict with the system of competitive
bidding adopted by the District Court. Hence we set
aside the findings on franchises so that the court may
examine the problem in the light of the elimination from
the decree of competitive bidding.
We do not take that course in the case of formula deals
and master agreements, for the findings in these instances
seem to stand on their own bottom and apparently have
no necessary dependency on the provision for competitive
utUding.
(5) Block-Booking.
Block-booking is the practice of licensing, or offering
for license, one feature or group of features on condition
that the exhibitor will also license another feature or
group of features released by the distributors during a
given period. The films are licensed in blocks before they
are actually produced. All the defendants, except United
Artists, have engaged in the practice. Block-booking prevents competitors from bidding for single features on their

UNITED STATES v. PARAMOUNT PICTURES. 157
131

Opinion of the Court.

individual merits. The District Court held it illegal for
that reason and for the reason that it "adds to the monopoly of a single copyrighted picture that of another copyrighted picture which must be taken and exhibited in
order to secure the first." That enlargement of the
monopoly of the copyright was condemned below in reliance on the principle which forbids the owner of a patent
to condition its use on the purchase or use of patented or
unpatented materials. See Ethyl Gasoline Corporation
v. United States, 309 U. S.436, 459; Morton Salt Co. v.
Suppiger Co., 314 U. S.488, 491; Mercoid Corp. v. MidContinent Investment Co., 320 U. S.661, 665. The court
enjoined defendants from performing or enterin'g into any
license in which the right to exhibit one feature is

conditioned upon the licensee's taking one or more other

features."
11Blind-selling is a practice whereby a distributor licenses a feature
before the exhibitor is afforded an opportunity to view it. To remedy
the problems created by that practice the District Court included the
following provision in its decree:
"To the extent that any of the features have not been trade shown
prior to the granting of the license for more than a single feature, the
licensee shall be given by the licensor the right to reject twenty per
cent of such features not trade shown prior to the granting of the
license, such right of rejection to be exercised in the order of release
within ten days after there has been an opportunity afforded to the
licensee to inspect the feature."
The court advanced the following as its reason for inclusion of this
provision:
"Blind-selling does not appear to be as inherently restrictive of
competition as block-booking, although it is capable of some abuse.
By this practice a distributor could promise a picture of good quality
or of a certaizT type which when produced might prove to be of poor
quality or of another type-a competing distributor meanwhile being
unable to market its product and in the end losing its outlets for
future pictures. The evidence indicates that trade-shows, which are
designed to prevent such blind-selling, are poorly attended by
exhibitors. Accordingly, exhibitors who choose to obtain their films
for exhibition in quantities, need to be protected against burdenson"

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

We approve that restriction. The copyright law, like
the patent statutes, makes reward to the owner a secondary consideration. In Fox Film Corp. v. Doyal, 286
U. S. 123, 127, Chief Justice Hughes spoke as follows
respecting the copyright monopoly granted by Congress,
"The sole interest of the United States and the primary
object in conferring the monopoly lie in the general
benefits derived by the public from the labors of authors."
It is said that reward to the author or artist serves to
induce release to the public of the products of his creative genius. But the reward does not serve its public
purpose if it is not related to the quality of the copyright. Where a high quality film greatly desired is
licensed only if an inferior one is taken, the latter borrows
quality from the former and strengthens its monopoly
by drawing on the other. The practice tends to equalize
rather than differentiate the reward for the individual
copyrights. Even where all the films included in the
package are of equal quality, the requirement that all
be taken if one is desired increases the market for some.
Each stands not on its own footing but in whole or in
part on the appeal which another film may have. As
the District Court said, the result is to add to the monopoly of the copyright in violation of the principle of the
patent cases involving tying clauses."2
agreements by being given an option to reject a certain percentage
of their blind-licensed pictures within a reasonable time after they
shall have become available for inspection."
We approve this provision of the decree.
12 The exclusive right granted by the Copyright Act, 35 Stat. 1075,
17 U. S. C. § 1, includes no such privilege. It provides, so far as
material here, as follows:
"That any person .entitled thereto, upon complying with the provisions of this Act, shall have the exclusive right:
"(d) To perform or represent the copyrighted work publicly if it
be a drama or, if it be a dramatic work and not reproduced in copies
for sale, to vend any manuscript or any record whatsoever thereof;

UNITED STATES v. PARAMOUNT PICTURES. 159
131

Opinion of the Court.

!tis argued that Transparent-WrapMachine Corp. v.
Stokes & Smith Co., 329 U. S.637, points to a contrary result. That case held that the inclusion in a patent license
of a condition requiring the licensee to assign improvement patents was not per se illegal. But that decision,
confined to improvement patents, was greatly influenced
by the federal statute governing assignments of patents.
It therefore has no controlling significance here.
Columbia Pictures makes an earnest argument that enforcement of the restriction as to block-booking will be
very disadvantageous to it and will greatly impair its
ability to operate profitably. But the policy of the antitrust laws is not qualified or conditioned by the convenience of those whose conduct is regulated. Nor can a
vested interest in a practice which contravenes the policy
of the anti-trust laws receive judicial sanction.
We do not suggest that films may not be sold in blocks
or groups, when there is no requirement, express or implied, for the purchase of more than one film. All we hold
to be illegal is a refusal to license one or more copyrights
unless another copyright is accepted.
(6) Discrimination.
The District Court found that defendants had discriminated against small independent exhibitors and in favor
of large affiliated and unaffiliated circuits through various kinds of contract provisions. These included suspension of the terms of a contract if a circuit theatre
remained closed for more than eight weeks with reinstatement without liability on reopening; allowing large
privileges in the selection and elimination of films;
to make or to procure the making of any transcription or record
thereof by or from which, in whole or in part, it may in any manner
or by any method be exhibited, performed, represented, produced, or
reproduced; and to exhibit, perform, represent, produce, or reproduce it in any manner or by any method whatsoever;"

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

allowing deductions in film rentals if double bills are
played; granting moveovers 13 and extended runs; granting road show privileges; " allowing overage and underage; " granting unlimited playing time; excluding foreign pictures and those of independent producers; and
granting rights to question the classification of features
for rental purposes. The District Court found that the
competitive advantages of these provisions were so great
that their inclusion in contracts with the larger circuits
and their exclusion from contracts with the small independents constituted an unreasonable discrimination
against the latter. Each discriminatory contract constituted a conspiracy between licensor and licensee. Hence
the District Court deemed it unnecessary to decide
whether the defendants had conspired among themselves
to make these discriminations. No provision of the decree specifically enjoins these discriminatory practices
because they were thought to be impossible under the
system of competitive bidding adopted by the District
Court.
These findings are amply supported by the evidence.
We concur in the conclusion that these discriminatory
practices are included among the restraints of trade which
the Sherman Act condemns. See Interstate Circuit v.
United States, supra, p. 231; United States v. Crescent
Amusement Co., supra, pp. 182-183. It will be for the
moveover is the privilege given a licensee to move a picture
from one theatre to another as a continuation of the run at the
licensee's first theatre.
14 A road show is a public exhibition of a feature in a limited
number of theatres, in advance of its general release, at admission
prices higher than those customarily charged in first-run theatres in
those areas.
15 Underage and overage refer to the practice of using excess film
rental earned in one circuit theatre to 'fulfill a rental commitment
defaulted by another.
13 A

UNITED STATES v. PARAMOUNT PICTURES.
131

161

Opinion of the Court.

District Court on remand of these cases to provide effective relief against their continuance, as our elimination
of the provision for competitive bidding leaves this phase
of the cases unguarded.
There is some suggestion on this as well as on other
phases of the cases that large exhibitors with whom defendants dealt fathered the illegal practices and forced
them onto the defendants. But as the District Court
observed, that circumstance if true does not help the
defendants. For acquiescence in an illegal scheme is as
much a violation of the Sherman Act as the creation and
promotion of one.
Second-Competitive Bidding.
The District Court concluded that the only way competition could be introduced into the existing system of
fixed prices, clearances and runs was to require that films
be licensed on a competitive bidding basis. Films are
to be offered to all exhibitors in each competitive area."
The license for the desired run is to be granted to the
highest responsible bidder, unless the distributor rejects
all offers. The licenses are to be offered and taken theatre by theatre and picture by picture. Licenses to show
films in theatres in which the licensor owns directly or
indirectly an interest of ninety-five per cent or more are
excluded from the requirement for competitive bidding.
Paramount is the only one of the five majors who
opposes the competitive bidding system. Columbia Pictures, Universal, and United Artists oppose it. The intervenors representing certain independents oppose it. And
18 Competitive bidding is required only in a "competitive area"
where it is "desired by the exhibitors." As the District Court said,
"the decree provides an opportunity to bid for any exhibitor in a
competitive area who may desire to do so."
The details of the competitive bidding system will be found in
70 F. Supp. pp. 73-74.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

the Department of Justice, which apparently proposed
the system originally, speaks strongly against it here.
At first blush there is much to commend the system
of competitive bidding. The trade victims of this conspiracy have in large measure been the small independent
operators. They are the ones that have felt most keenly
the discriminatory practices and predatory activities in
which defendants have freely indulged. They have been
the victims of the massed purchasing power of the larger
units in the industry: It is largely out of the ruins of
the small operators that the large empires of exhibitors
have been built. Thus it would appear to be a great
boon to them to substitute open bidding for the private
deals and favors on which the large operators have
thrived. But after reflection we have concluded that
competitive bidding involves the judiciary so deeply in
the daily operation of this nation-wide business and
promises such dubious benefits that it should not be
undertaken.
Each film is to be licensed on a particular run to "the
highest responsible bidder, having a theatre of a size,
location and equipment adequate to yield a reasonable
return to the licensor." The bid "shall state what run
such exhibitor desires and what he is willing to pay for
such feature, which statement may specify a flat rental,
or a percentage of gross receipts, or both, or any other
form of rental, and shall also specify what clearance such
exhibitor is willing to accept, the time and days when
such exhibitor desires to exhibit it, and any other offers
which such exhibitor may care to make." We do not
doubt that if a competitive bidding system is adopted
all these provisions are necessary. For the licensing of
films at auction is quite obviously a more complicated
matter thali the like sales for cash of tobacco, wheat, or
other produce. Colugibia puts these pertinent queries:
"No two exhibitors are likely to make the saine bid as to

UNITED STATES v. PARAMOUNT PICTURES. 163
131

Opinion of the Court.

dates, clearance, method of fixing rental, etc. May bids
containing such diverse factors be readily compared?
May a flat rental bid be compared with a percentage bid?
May the value of any percentage bid be determined
unless the admission price is fixed by the license?"
The question as to who is the highest bidder involves
the use of standards incapable of precise definition
because the bids being compared contain different ingredients. Determining who is the most responsible
bidder likewise cannot be reduced to a formula. The
distributor's judgment of the character and integrity
of a particular exhibitor might result in acceptance
of a lower bid than others offered. Yet to prove that
favoritism was shown would be well-nigh impossible,
unless perhaps all the exhibitors in the country were
given classifications of responsibility. If, indeed, the
choice between bidders is not to be entrusted to-the uncontrolled discretion of the distributors, some effort to standardize the factors involved in determining "a reasonable
return to the licensor" would seem necessary.
We mention these matters merely to indicate the character of the job of supervising such a competitive bidding
system. It would involve the judiciary in the administration of intricate and detailed rules governing priority,
period of clearance, length of run, competitive areas, reasonable return, and the like. The system would be apt to
require as close a supervision as a continuous receivership,
unless the defendants were to be entrusted with vast
discretion. The judiciary is unsuited to affairs of business
management; and control through the power of contempt
is crude and,clumsy and lacking in the flexibility necessary
to make continuous and detailed supervision effective.
Yet delegation of the management of the system to the
discretion of those who had' the genius to conceive the
present conspiracy and to'execute it with the subtlety
which this record reveals, could be done only with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

greatest reluctance. At least suc'h choices should not be
faced unless the need for the sy,,tem is great and its
benefits plain.
The system uproots business arrangements and established relationships with no apparent overall benefit to the
small independent exhibitor. If each feature must go to
the highest responsible bidder, those with the greatest
purchasing power would seem to be in a favored position.
Those with the longest purse-the exhibitor-defendants
and the large circuits--would seem to stand in a preferred
position. If in fact they were enabled through the competitive bidding system to take the cream of the business,
eliminate the smaller independents, and thus increase
their own strategic, hold on the industry, they would
have the cloak of the court's decree around them for protection. Hence the natural advantage which the larger
and financially stronger exhibitors would seem to have
in the bidding gives us pause. If a premium is placed
on purchasing power, the court-created system may be
a powerful factor towards increasing the concentration
of economic power in the industry rather than cleansing
the competitive system of unwholesome practices. For
where the system in operation promises the advantage
to the exhibitor who is in the strongest financial position,
the injunction against discrimination " is apt to hold an
empty promise. In this connection it should be noted
that, even though the independents in a given competitive
area do not want competitive bidding, the exhibitordefendants can invoke the system.
Our doubts concerning the competitive bidding system
are increased by the fact that defendants who own theatres are allowed to pre-empt their own features. They
thus start with an inventory which all other exhib11The competitive bidding part of the decree provides: "Each
license shall be granted solely upon the merits and without discrimination in favor of affiliates, old customers or others."

UNITED STATES v. PARAMOUNT PICTURES.
131

165

Opinion of the Court.

itors lack. The latter have no prospect of assured runs
except what they get by competitive bidding. The proposed system does not offset in any way the advantages
which the exhibitor-defendants have by way of theatre
ownership. It would seem in fact to increase them. For
the independents are deprived of the stability which flows
from established business relationships. Under the proposed system they can get features only if they are the
highest responsible bidders. They can no longer depend
on their private sources of supply which their ingenuity
has created. Those sources, built perhaps on private
relationships and representing important items of good
will, are banned, even though they are free of any taint
of illegality.
The system was designed, as some of the defendants
put it, to remedy the difficulty of any theatre to break
into or change the existing system of runs and clearances.
But we do not see how, in practical operation, the proposed system of competitive bidding is likely to ope n
up to competition the markets which defendants' unlawful restraints have dominated. Rather real danger seems
to us to lie in the opportunities the system affords the
exhibitor-defendants and the other large operators to
strengthen their hold in the industry. We are reluctant
to alter decrees in these cases where there is agreement
with the District Court on the nature of the violations.
United States v. Crescent Amusement Co., supra, p. 185;
International Salt Co. v. United States, 332 U. S. 392,
400. But the provisions for competitive bidding in these
cases promise little in the way of relief against the real
evils of the conspiracy. They implicate the judiciary
heavily in the details of business management if supervision is to be effective. They vest powerful control in
the exhibitor-defendants over their competitors if close
supervision by the court is not undertaken. In light of
these considerations we conclude that the competitive

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

bidding provisions of the decree should be eliminated so
that a more effective decree may be fashioned.
We have already indicated in preceding parts of this
opinion that this alteration in the decree leaves a hiatus
or two which will have to be filled on remand of the cases.
We will indicate hereafter another phase of the problem
which the District Court should also reconsider in view
of this alteration in the decree. But out of an abundance
of caution we add this additional word. The competitive bidding system was perhaps the central arch of the
decree designed by the District Court. Its elimination
may affect the cases in ways other than those which we
expressly mention. Hence on remand of the cases the
freedom of the District Court to reconsider the adequacy
of decree is not limited to those parts we have specifically
indicated.
Third. Monopoly, Expansion of Theatre Holdings, Divestiture.
There is a suggestion that the hold the defendants
have on the industry is so great that a problem under
the First Amendment is raised. Cf. Associated Press v.
United States, 326 U. S. 1. We have no doubt that
moving pictures, like newspapers and radio, are included
in the press whose freedom is guaranteed by the First
Amei. 'ment. That issue would be focused here if we
had any question concerning monopoly in the production
of moving pictures. But monopoly in production was
eliminated as an issue in these cases, as we have noted.
The chief argument at the bar is phrased in terms of
monopoly of exhibition, restraints on exhibition, and the
like. Actually, the issue is even narrower than that.
The main contest is over the cream of the exhibition
business--that of the first-run theatres. By defining the
issue so narrowly we do not intend to belittle its importance. It shows, however, that the question here is not

UNITED STATES v. PARAMOUNT PICTURES. 167
131

Opinion of the Court.

what the public will see or if the public will be permitted
to see certain features. It is clear that under the existing
system the public will be denied access to none. If the
public cannot see the features on the first-run, it may do
so on the second, third, fourth, or later run. The central
problem presented by these cases is which exhibitors get
the highly profitable first-run business. That problem
has important aspects under the Sherman Act. But it
bears only remotely, if at all, on any question of freedom
of the press, save only as timeliness of release may be a
factor of importance in specific situations.
The controversy over monopoly relates to monopoly
in exhibition and more particularly monopoly in the firstrun phase of the exhibition business.
The five majors in 1945 had interests in somewhat
over 17 per cent of the theatres in the United States3,137 out of 18,076.8 Those theatres paid 45 per cent
of the total domestic film rental received by all eight
defendants.
In the 92 cities of the country with populations over
100,000 at least 70 per cent of all the first-run theatres
are affiliated with one or more of the five majors. In
4 of those cities the five majors have no theatres. In
38 of those cities there are no independent first-run
theatres. In none of the remaining 50 cities did less
18 The theatres which each of the five majors owned independently
of the others were: Paramount 1,395 or 7.72 per cent; Warner 501

or 2.77 per cent; Loew's 135 or .74 per cent; Fox 636 or 3.52 per
cent; RKO 109 or .60 per cent. There were in addition 361 theatres
or about 2 per cent in which two or more of the five majors had joint
interests. These figures exclude connections through film-buying or
minagement contracts or through corporations in which a defendant
owns an indirect minority stock interest.
These theatres are located in 922 towns in 48 States and the District of Columbia. For further description of the distribution of
theatres see Bertrand, Evans, and Blanchard, The Motion Picture Industry-A Pattern of Control 15-16 (TNEC Monograph 43, 1941).

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

than three of the distributor-defendants license their
product on first run to theatres of the five majors. In 19
of the 50 cities less than three of the distributor-defendants licensed their product on first run to independent
theatres. In a majority of the 50 cities the greater share
of all of the features of defendants were licensed for firstrun exhibition in the theatres of the five majors.
In about 60 per cent of the 92 cities having populations
of over 100,000, independent theatres compete with those
of the five majors in first-run exhibition. In about 91
per cent of the 92 cities there is competition between
independent theatres and the theatres of the five majors
or between theatres of the five majors themselves for
first-run exhibition. In all of the 92 cities there is always
competition in some run even where there is no competition in first runs.
In cities between 25,000 and 100,000 populations the
five majors have interests in 577 of a total of 978 firstrun theatres or about 60 per cent. In about 300 additional towns, mostly under 25,000, an operator affiliated
with one of the five majors has all of the theatres in the
town.
The District Court held that the five majors could
not be treated collectively so as to establish claims of
general monopolization in exhibition. It found that none
of them was organized or had been maintained "for the
purpose of achieving a national monopoly" in exhibition.
It found that the five majors by their present theatre
holdings "alone" (which aggregate a little mote than onesixth of all the theatres in the United States), "do not
and cannot collectively or individually, have a monopoly
of exhibition." The District Court also found that where
a single defendant owns all of the first-run theatres in
a town, there is no sufficient proof that the acquisition
was for the purpose of creating a monopoly. It found
rather that such consequence resulted from the inertness

UNITED STATES v. PARAMOUNT PICTURES. 169
131

Opinion of the Court.

of competitors, their lack of financial ability to build
theatres comparable to those of the five majors, or the
preference of the public for the nest-equipped theatres.
And the percentage of features on the market which any
of the five majors could play in its own theatres was found
to be relatively small and in nowise to approximate a
monopoly of film exhibition. 9
Even in respect of the theatres jointly owned or jointly
operated by the defendants with each other or with independents, the District Court found no monopoly or
attempt to monopolize. Those joint agreements or ownership were found only to be unreasonable restraints of
trade. The District Court, indeed, found no monopoly
on any phase of the cases, although it did find an attempt
to monopolize in the fixing of prices, the granting of un19 The number of feature films released during the 1943-44 season
by the eleven largest distributors is as follows:

No. of Films
Fox .............

33

Loebw's............. 33
Par amount ....... 31
RK(0 ............ 38
Wai mner ..........
19
Coll umbia ........ 41
Uni ted Artists ....
16
Uni versal ........ 49
-29 features
Rep ublic .........

Percentagesof Total
With
With
'Westerns" "Westerns"
included
excluded
8.31
9.85
8.31
9.85
7.81
9.25
9.57
11.34
4.79
5.67
10.32
12.24
4.04
4.78
12.34
14.63
14.86
8.66

-30 "Westerns"

Monlogram ....... -26 features
PR(

-16 "Westerns"
............ -20 features
-16 "Westerns"
Totals .......
792588 0-48----16

397
335 without "Westerns"

10.58

7.76

.9.07

5.97

100. 00

100. 00

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

reasonable clearances, block-booking and the other unlawful restraints of trade we have already discussed. The
"root of the difficulties," according to the District Court,
lay not in theatre ownership but in those unlawful
practices.
The District Court did, however, enjoin the five majors
from expanding their present theatre holdings in any
manner. 2 It refused to grant the request of the Department of Justice for total divestiture by the five majors
of their theatre holdings. It found that total divestiture
would be injurious to the five majors and damaging to
the public. Its thought on the latter score was that
the new set of theatre owners who would take the place
of the five majors would be unlikely for some years to
give the public as good service as those they supplanted
"in view of the latter's demonstrated experience and skill
in operating what must be regarded as in general the
largest and best equipped theatres." Divestiture was, it
thought, too harsh a remedy where there was available
the alternative of competitive bidding. It accordingly
concluded that divestiture was unnecessary "at least until
the efficiency of that system has been tried and found
wanting."
It is clear, so far as the five majors are concerned, that
the aim of the conspiracy was exclusionary, i. e. it was
designed to strengthen their hold on the exhibition field.
In other words, the conspiracy had monopoly in exhibition
for one of its goals, as the District Court held. Price,
clearance, and run are interdependent. The clearance
and run provisions of the licenses fixed the relative playing
positions of all theatres in a certain area; the minimum
price provisions were based on playing position-the firstrun theatres being required to charge the highest prices,
20 Excepted from this prohibition was the acquisition of interests
in theatres jointly owned, a matter we have discussed in a preceding
portion of this opinion.

UNITED STATES v. PARAMOUNT PICTURES. 171
131

Opinion of the Court.

the second-run theatres the next highest, and so on. As
the District Court found, "In effect, the distributor, by the
fixing of minimum admission prices, attempts to give the
prior-run exhibitors as near a monopoly of the patronage
as possible."
It is, therefore, not enough in determining the need
for divestiture to conclude with the District Court that
none of the defendants was organized or has been maintained for the purpose of achieving a "national monopoly," nor that the five majors through their present
theatre holdings "alone"' do not and cannot collectively
or individually have a monopoly of exhibition. For when
the starting point is a conspiracy to effect a monopoly
through restraints of trade, it is relevant to determine
what the results of the conspiracy were even if they fell
short of monopoly.
An example will illustrate the problem. In the popular sense there is a monopoly if one person owns the
only theatre in town. That usually does not, however,
constitute a violation of the Sherman Act. But as we
noted in United States v. Griffith, ante, p. 100, and see
Schine Chain Theatres, Inc. v. United States, ante, p. 110,
even such an ownership is vulnerable in a suit by the
United States under the Sherman Act if the property was
acquired, or its strategic position maintained, as a result
of practices which constitute unreasonable restraints of
trade.- Otherwise, there would be reward from the conspiracy through retention of its fruits. Hence the problem of the District Court does not end with enjoining
continuance of the unlawful restraints nor with dissolving the combination which launched the conspiracy.
Its function includes undoing what the conspiracyachieved. As we have discussed in Schine Chain Theatres, Inc. v. United States, ante, p. 110, the requirement
that the defendants restore what they unlawfully obtained is no more punishment than the familiar remedy

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

of restitution. What findings would be warranted after
such an inquiry in the present cases, we do not know.
For the findings of the District Court do not cover this
point beyond stating that monopoly was an objective of
the several restraints of trade that stand condemned.
Moreover, the problem under the Sherman Act is not
solved merely by measuring monopoly in terms of size or
extent of holdings or by concluding that single ownerships
were not obtained "for the purpose of achieving a national
monopoly." It is the relationship of the unreasonable
restraints of trade to the position of the defendants in the
exhibition field (and more particularly in the first-run
phase of that business) that is of first importance on the
divestiture phase of these cases. That is the position we
have taken in Schine Chain Theatres, Inc. v. United
States, ante, p. 110, in dealing with a projection of the same
conspiracy through certain large circuits. Parity of treatment of the unaffiliated and the affiliated circuits requires
the same approach here. For the fruits of the conspiracy
which are denied the independents must also be denied
the five majors. In this connection there is a suggestion
that one result of the conspiracy was a geographical division of territory among the five majors. We mention
it not to intimate that it is true but only to indicate the
appropriate extent of the inquiry concerning the effect of
the conspiracy in theatre ownership by the five majors.
The findings of the District Court are deficient on that
score and obscure on another. The District Court in its
findings speaks of the absence of a "purpose" on the part
of any of the five majors to achieve a "national monopoly"
in the exhibition of motion pictures. First, there is no
finding as to the presence or absence of monopoly on the
part of the five majors in the first-run field for the entire
country, in the first-run field in the 92 largest cities of
the country, or in the first-run field in separate localities.
Yet the first-run field, which constitutes the cream of the

UNITED STATES v. PARAMOUNT PICTURES. 173
131

Opinion of the Court.

exhibition business, is the core of the present cases. Section 1 of the Sherman Act outlaws unreasonable restraints
irrespective of the amount of trade or commerce involved
(United States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 310 U. S. 150,
224, 225, n. 59), and § 2 condemns monopoly of "any part"
of trade or commerce. "Any part" is construed to mean
an appreciable part of interstate or foreign trade or commerce. United States v. Yellow Cab Co., 332 U. S. 218,
225. Second, we pointed out in United States v. Griffith,
ante, p. 100, that "specific intent" is not necessary to establish a "purpose or intent" to create a monopoly but that
the requisite "purpose or intent" is present if monopoly
results as a necessary consequence of what was done. The
findings of the District Court on this phase of the cases are
not clear, though we take them to mean by the absence
of "purpose" the absence of a specific intent. So construed they are inconclusive. In any event they are
ambiguous and must be recast on remand of the cases.
Third, monopoly power, whether lawfully or unlawfully
acquired, may violate § 2 of the Sherman Act though
it remains unexercised (United States v. Griffith, ante,
p . 100), for as we stated in American Tobacco Co. v.
United States, 328 U. S. 781, 809, 811, the existence of
power "to exclude competition when it is desired to do so"
is itself a violation of § 2, provided it is coupled with the
purpose or intent to exercise that power. The District
Court; being primarily concerned with the number and
extent of the theatre holdings of defendants, did not
address itself to this phase of the monopoly problem.
Here also, parity of treatment as between independents
and the five majors as theatre owners, who were tied
into the same general conspiracy, necessitates consideration of this question.
Exploration of these phases of the cases would not
be necessary if, as the Department of Justice argues,
vertical integration of producing, distributing and exhibit-

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

ing motion pictures is illegal per se. But the majority
of the Court does not take that view. In the opinion of
the majority the legality of vertical integration under the
Sherman Act turns on (1) the purpose or intent with
which it was conceived, or (2) the power it creates and the
attendant purpose or intent. First, it runs afoul of the
Sherman Act if it was a calculated scheme to gain control
over an appreciable segment of the market and to restrain
or suppress competition, rather than an expansion to meet
legitimate business needs. United States v. Reading Co.,
253 U. S. 26, 57; United States v. Lehigh Valley R. Co.,
254 U. S. 255, 269-270. Second, a vertically integrated
enterprise, like other aggregations of business units
(United States v. Aluminum Co. of.America, 148 F. 2d
416), will constitute monopoly which, though unexercised,
violates the Sherman Act provided a power to exclude
competition is coupled with a purpose or intent to do so.
As we pointed out in United States v. Griffith, ante, p. 100,
107, n. 10, size is itself an earmark of monopoly power.
For size carries with it an opportunity for abuse. And the
fact that the power created by size was utilized in the past
to crush or prevent competition is potent evidence that
the requisite purpose or intent attends the presence of
monopoly power. See United States v. Swift & Co., 286
U. S. 106,116; United States v. Aluminum Co. of America,
supra, p. 430. Likewise bearing on the question whether
monopoly power is created by the vertical integration, is
the nature of the market to be served (United States v.
Aluminum Co. of America, supra, p. 430), and the le-verage on the market which the particular vertical integration creates or makes possible.
These matters were not considered by the District
Court. For that reason, as well as the others we have
mentioned, the findings on monopoly and divestiture
which we bave discussed in this part of the opinion will
be set aside. There is an independent reason for doing

UNITED STATES v. PARAMOUNT PICTURES. 175
131

Opinion of the Court.

that. As we have seen, the District Court considered
competitive bidding as an alternative to divestiture in
the sense that it concluded that further consideration of
divestiture should not be had until competitive bidding
had been tried and found wanting. Since we eliminate
from the decree the provisions for competitive bidding,
it is necessary to set aside the findings on divestiture so
that a new start on this phase of the cases may be made on
their remand.
I It follows that the provision of the decree barring the
five majors from further theatre expansion should likewise be eliminated. For it too is related to the monopoly
question; and the District Court should be allowed to
make an entirely fresh start on the while of the problem.
We in no way intimate, however, that the District Court
erred in prohibiting further theatre expansion by the five
majors.
The Department of Justice maintains that if total
divestiture is denied, licensing of films among the five
majors should be barred. As a permanent requirement it
would seem to be only an indirect way of forcing divestiture. For the findings reveal that the five majors could
not operate their theatres full time on their own films.21
Whether that step would, in absence of competitive bidding, serve as a short-range remedy in certain situations to
dissipate the effects of the conspiracy (United States v.
Univis Lens Co., 316 U. S. 241, 254; United States v.
Bausch & Lomb Co., supra, p. 724; United States v. Crescent Amusement Co., supra, p. 188) is a question for the
District Court
21 The District Court found, "Except for a very limited number
of theatres in the very largest cities, the 18,000 and more theatres
in the United States exhibit the product of more than one distributor.
Such theatres could not be operated on the product of only one
distributor."

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

Fourth.
The consent decree created an arbitration system which
had, in the view of the District Court, proved useful in
its operation. The court indeed thought that the arbitration system had dealt with the problems of clearances and runs "with rare efficiency." But it did not
think it had the power to continue an arbitration system
which would be binding on the parties, since the consent
decree did not bind the defendants who had not consented to it and since the government, acting pursuant to
the powers reserved under the consent decree, moved for
trial of the issues charged in the complaint. The District
Court recommended, however, that some such system be
continued. But it included no such provision in its
decree.
We agree that the government did not consent to a
permanent system of arbitration under the consent decree
and that the District Court has no power to force or
require parties to submit to arbitration in lieu of the
remedies afforded by Congress for enforcing the antitrust laws. But the District Court has the power to
authorize the maintenance of such a system by those
parties who consent and to provide the rules and procedure under which it is to operate. The use of the system
would not, of course, be mandatory. It would be merely
an auxiliary enforcement procedure, barring no one from
the use of other remedies the law affords for violations
either of the Sherman Act or of the decree of the court.
Whether such a system of arbitration should be inaugurated is for the discretion of the District Court.
Fifth -Intervention.
Certain associations of exhibitors and a number of independent exhibitors, appellant-intervenors in Nos. 85
and 86, were denied leave to intervene in the District

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting in part.

334 U. S.

position, intervention should be denied here and the orders
of the District Court denying leave to intervene must be
affirmed. Now that the provisions for competitive bidding have been eliminated from the decree, there is no
basis for saying that the decree affects their legal rights.
Whatever may have been the situation below, no other
reason appears why at this stage their intervention is
warranted. Any justification for making them parties
has disappeared.
The judgment in these cases is affirmed in part and
reversed in part, and the cases are remanded to the District Court for proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.
So ordered.
took no part in the consideration
or decision of these cases.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

dissenting in part.

"The framing of decrees should take place in the District rather than in Appellate Courts. They are invested
with large discretion to model their judgments to fit the
exigencies of the particular case." "On this guiding consideration, the Court earlier this Term sustained a Sherman Law decree, which was not the outcome of a long
trial involving complicated and contested facts and their
significance, but the formulation of a summary judgment
on the bare bones of pleadings. InternationalSalt Co. v.
UnitedState8, 332 U. S. 392, 400-401. The record in this
case bespeaks more compelling respect for the decree fashioned by the District Court of three judges to put an end

to violations of the Sherman Law and to prevent the
rec irrence, than that which led this Court not to find
abuse of discretion in the decree by a single district judge
in the InternationalSalt case.

UNITED STATES v. PARAMOUNT PICTURES. 177
131

Opinion of the Court.

Court. They appeal from those orders. They also filed
original motions for leave to intervene in this Court. We
postponed consideration of the original motions and of
our jurisdiction to hear the ampeals until a hearing on the
merits of the cases.
Rule 24 (a) of the Rules of Civil Procedure, which provides for intervention as of right, reads in part as follows:
"Upon timely application anyone shall be permitted to
intervene in an action: . . . (2) when the representation
of the applicant's interest by existing parties is or may be
inadequate and the applicant is or may be bound by a
judgment in the action."
The complaint of the intervenors was directed towards
the system of competitive bidding. The Department of
Justice is the representative of the public in these antitrust suits. So far as the protection of the public interest
in free competition is concerned, the interests of those intervenors was adequately represented. The intervenors,
however, claim that the system of competitive bidding
would have operated prejudicially to their rights. Cf.
United States v. St. Louis Terminal, 236 U. S. 194, 199.
Their argument is that the plan of competitive bidding
under the control of the defendants would be a concert
of action that would be illegal but for the decree. If
pursuant to the decree defendants acted under that plan,
they would gain immunity from any liability under the
anti-trust laws which otherwise they might have to the
intervenors. Thus, it is argued, the decree would affect
their legal rights and be binding on them. The , %resentation of their interests by the Department of Justice
on that score was said to be inadequate since that agency
proposed the idea of competitive bidding in the District
Court.
We need not consider the merits of that argument.
Even if we assume that the intervenors are correct in their

UNITED STATES v. PARAMOUNT PICTURES. 179
131

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting in part.

This Court has both the authority and duty to consider
whether a decree is well calculated to undo, as far as is
possible, the result of transactions forbidden by the Sherman Law and to guard against their repetition. But it is
not the function of this Court, and it would ill discharge
it, to displace the district courts and write decrees de
novo. We are, after all, an appellate tribunal even in
Sherman Law cases. It could not be fairly claimed that
this Court possesses greater experience, understanding and
prophetic insight in relation to the movie industry, and is
therefore better equipped to formulate a decree for the
movie industry than was the District Court in this case,
presided over as it was by one of the wisest of judges.
The terms of the decree in this litigation amount,
in effect, to the formulation of a regime for the future
conduct of the movie industry. The terms of such a
regime, within the scope of judicial oversight, are not to
be derived from precedents in the law reports, nor, for that
matter, from any other available repository of knowledge.
Inescapably the terms must be derived from an assessment of conflicting interests, not quantitatively measurable, and a prophecy regarding the workings of untried
remedies for dealing with disclosed evils so as to advance
most the comprehensive public interest.
The crucial legal question before us is not whether we
would have drawn the decree as the District Court drew
it, but whether, on the basis of what came before the District Court, we can say that in fashioning remedies it did
not fairly respond to disclosed violations and therefore
abused a discretion, the fair exercise of which we should
respect and not treat as an abuse. Discretion means a
choice of available remedies. As bearing upon this question, it is most relevant to consider whether the District
Court showed a sympathetic or mere niggling awareness
of the proper scope of the Sherman Law and the range of

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting in part.

334 U. S.

its condemnation. Adequate remedies are not likely to
be fashioned by those who are not hostile to evils to be
remedied. The District Court's opinion manifests a stout
purpose on the part of that court to enforce its thoroughgoing understanding of the requirements of the Sherman
Law as elucidated by this Court. And so we have before
us the decree of a district court thoroughly aware of the
demands of the Sherman Law and manifestly determined
to enforce it in all its rigors.
How did the District Court go about working out the
terms of the decree some of which this Court now displaces? The case was before that court from October 8,
1945, to January 22, 1947. A vast body of the evidence
which had to be considered below, and must be. considered
here in overturning the lower court's decree, consisted of
documents. A mere enumeration of these documents, not
printed in the record before us, required a pamphlet of 42
pages. It took 460 pages for a selection of exhibits
deemed appropriate for printing by the Government.
The printed record in this Court consists of 3,841 pages.
It is on the basis of this vast mass of evidence that the
District Court, on June 11, 1946, filed its careful opinion,
approved here, as to the substantive issues. Thereafter,
it heard argument for three days as to the terms of the
judgment. The parties then submitted their proposals
for findings of fact and conclusions of law by the District
Court. After a long trial, an elaborate opinion on the
merits, full discussion as to the terms of the decree, more
than two months for the gestation of the decree, the terms
were finally promulgated.
I cannot bring myself to conclude that the product
of such a painstaking process of adjudication as to a
decree appropriate for such a complicated situation as
this record discloses was an abuse of discretion, arrived
at as it was after due absorption of all the light that

UNITED STATES v. PARAMOUNT PICTURES. 181
131

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting in part.

could be shed upon remedies appropriate for the future.
After all, as to such remedies there is no test, ultimately,
except the wisdom of men judged by events.
Accordingly, I would affirm the decree except as to
one particular, that regarding an arbitration system for
controversies that may arise under the decree. This
raises a pure question of law and not a judgment based
upon facts and their significance, as are those features
of the decree which the Court sets aside. The District
Court indicated that "in view of its demonstrated usefulness" such an arbitration system was desirable to aid in
the enforcement of the decree. The District Court, however, deemed itself powerless to continue an arbitration
system without the consent of the parties. I do not find
such want of power in the District Court to select this
means of enforcing the decree most effectively, with the
least friction and by the most fruitful methods. A decree
as detailed and as complicated as is necessary to fit a
situation like the one before us is bound, even under the
best of circumstances, to raise controversies involving
conflicting claims as to facts and their meaning. A court
could certainly appoint a master to deal with questions
arising under the decree. I do not appreciate why a
proved system of arbitration, appropriate as experience
has found it to be appropriate for adjudicating numberless questions that arise under such a-decree, is not to
be treated in effect as a standiihg master for purposes of
this decree. See Ex parte Peterson, 253 U. S. 300. I
would therefore leave it to the discretion of the District
Court to determine whether such a system is not available as an instrument of auxiliary enforcement. With
this exception I would affirm the decree of the District
Court.

