OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

McCREA v. UNITED STATES

294 U. S.
ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 249. Motion filed January 30, 1935.-Decided February 18, 1935.
The petitioner's own testimony supports the finding of the District
Court as to the time when he abandoned the vessel on which he
had~b~en serving as a seaman; and his departure from the vessel,
then or later, without informing the master whether he persisted
in his demand for wages, precludes the inference that, in the circumstances described in this Court's opinion, ante, p. 23, the failure
to pay wages was "without sufficient cause."
Rehearing denied.

This was a motion for a reargument of the cause reported ante, p. 23.
MR.

JUSTICE

STONE, delivered

the opinion of the Court.

Petitioner has moved for reargument of the question
whether the failure to pay his wages was "without sufficient cause," on the ground that this Court " misapprehended the facts shown by the record" in accepting the
finding of the district court that petitioner "departed the
ship without seeing the captain " on the second day after
her arrival at the port of London.
In support of this contention petitioner, for the first
tine, invites our attention to an excerpt from the vessel's
log, an exhibit in the case, which states that he was
"aboard ship from 3:20 PM Feb. 29th to 9:00 AM
March 1st, 1928" and that he was "last . . . seen aboard
ship at 9:00 AM March 1st, 1928." It is conceded that
the vessel arrived in port on Sunday, February 26, 1928,
and sailed- the following Friday, March 2nd. -As the year
was a leap year, petitioner argues that he is thus shown to
have been on board on the morning of the fourth calendar day after arrival; that, as the vessel sailed the

McCREA v. UNITED STATES.
382

Opinion of the Court.

following day, it may be inferred that he di.d not leave
until the cargo was discharged; and that the failure to
pay wages before his departure on March 1st was therefore
without sufficient cause.
The details of petitioner's leaving the vessel were not
considered by the Circuit Court of Appeals, presumably
because its decision was placed on other grounds. But
in this Court respondent properly sought to sustain the
decision below on the ground that the failure to pay
wages was not without sufficient cause. In its brief it
specifically relied on the finding of the district court that
petitioner had abandoned the vessel two days after arrival,
and cited the record in support of the finding. Petitioner in this Court neither challenged the finding of the
district court nor assailed the sufficiency of the evidence
to support it, and we are now asked, for the first time, by
a motion for reargument, to weigh the evidence.
The petitioner, in his testimony in his own behalf, both
on direct and cross-examination, testified at four different
points in the record that he abandoned the vessel on
February 28th, which was on Tuesday, two days after
arrival. He identified the day of abandonment by its
date, as being on Tuesday, and as being the day after his
visit to the Consul's office, which was on Monday, February 27th. He was equally specific in his testimony that
when he left the vessel he did not intend to return and
did not in fact return. We accept his testimony as correct and as abundantly supporting the finding of the
district court.
We also think, as the opinion indicates, that petitioner's
departure from the vessel, whenever it occurred, without
informing the master whether he persisted in his demand, precludes the inference thdt, in the circumstances,
the failure to pay wages was "without sufficient cause."
The motion is
Denied.

