OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Counsel for Parties.

294 U. S.

COONEY, GOVERNOR, ET AL. V. MOUNTAIN
STATES TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MONTANA.

No. 423.

Argued February 7, 8, 1935.-Decided March 4, 1935.

1. To sustain a state occupation tax on one whose business is both
interstate and intrastate, it must appear that it is imposed solely
on account of the intrastate business; that the amount exacted is
not increased because of the interstate business done; that one
engaged exclusively in interstate business would not be subject to
the tax; and that the one taxed could discontinue intrastate business without withdrawing from the interstate business. P. 392.
2. A state occupation tax on every corporation engaged in the business of operating or maintaining telephone lines and furnishing
telephone service in the State, of so much for each telephone
instrument used, controlled and operated by it in the conduct of
such business, held a direct burden on interstate commerce, as
applied to a company furnishing both kinds of service, interstate
and intrastate, and employing the same telephones, wires, etc.,
in both as integral parts of its system. P. 388.
7 F. Supp. 12, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court, constituted
of three judges, enjoining the enforcement of a tax, in a
suit brought by the Telephone Company against the
Governor and other officials of the State of Montana.

Mr. Enor K. Matson, Assistant Attorney General of
Montana, with whom Mr. Raymond T. Nagle, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for appellants.
Messrs. Elmer L. Brock and M. S. Gunn, with whom
Messrs. Milton Smith and E. R. Campbell were on the
brief, for appellee.

COONEY v. MOUNTAIN STATES TEL. CO. 385
384

Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The Mountain States Telephone and Telegraph Company brought this suit to restrain the enforcement of two
acts of the legislature of Montana imposing annual license
taxes. The first act is Chapter 174 of the Laws of 1933
prescribing a tax, to be paid on or before January first, for
each telephone instrument used in the conduct of the
business of operating or maintaining telephone lines and
furnishing telephone service in the State of Montana.
The tax is not to be imposed on telephone instruments
where the rate charged to the customer does not exceed
specified monthly amounts. The second act, Chapter 54
of the Laws of 1933-34, amended the first act with respect
to the amount of the tax, the date of payment, and other
particulars, and continued the first act in force as to taxes
already accrued. The text of the acts is set forth in the
margin. 1
'Chapter 174 of the Laws of 1933, approved March 16, 1933, provides:
"Section 1. Every person, firm, copartnership, association, joint
stock company, syndicate and corporation engaged in the business of
operating or maintaining telephone lines and furnishing telephone
service in the State of Montana, whether as owner, lessee, trustee or
receiver or in any other capacity, shall pay in to the State Treasurer
on or before the first day of January each year a license tax in the
amounts following for each telephone instrument used, controlled and
operated by it in the conduct of such business, based upon the number
of telephone instruments owned, controlled and operated by it during
all or any part of the calendar year, to-wit: On the first twenty (20)
telephone instruments or less a license tax of Ten Cents (100) per
phone; from twenty (20) to seventy-five (75) such instruments a
license tax of Twenty Cents (200) per phone, and on all above seventy-five (75) a license tax of One Dollar ($1.00) for each such instrument. The license tax so paid shall in no manner affect the rates
charged to the patrons and users of Auc telephone instruments, but

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

The acts were assailed as repugnant to both the federal
and state constitutions. One of these grounds, that the
acts were invalid under the commerce clause of the Fedshall be borne entirely by the owning and operating concern. Provided, the tax herein provided for shall not be imposed on any telephone instrument where the rate charged the customer therefor does
not exceed Two Dollars ($2.00) per month for residence phone, or
Three Dollars ($3.00) per month for business house or office phone.
"Section 2. A telephone instrument is hereby defined to be a transmitter and receiver capable of use in the transmitting and receiving
of telephone communications.
"Section 3. Any violation of any of the provisions of this Act shall
be deemed a misdemeanor and ghall be punished by fine of not more
than One Thousand Dollars ($1,000) or by imprisonment in the
county jail not exceeding six (6) months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
"Section 4. All license fees paid to the State Treasurer under the
provisions of this Act shall be by him, before the end of each fiscal
year, divided by the counties in this state according to the number of
telephone instruments in use from time to time in the respective
counties of the state and on each such computation and division the
State Treasurer shall transmit the share of each county to the County
Treasurer thereof, for the use and benefit of the county general fund.
"Section 5. This Act shall be in full force and effect from and
after its passage and approval."
The amending act (c. 54 of the Laws of 1933-34) approved January 20, 1934, provides:
"Section 1. That Section 1, of Chapter 174, of the Session Laws
of 1933, be amended to read as follows:
"Section 1. Every person, firm, co-partnership, association, joint
stock company, syndicate and corporation engaged in the business
of operating or maintaining telephone lines and furnishing telephone
service in the State of Montana, whether as owner, lessee, trustee or
receiver or in any other capacity, shall pay in to the State Treasurer
on or before the first day of March each year a license tax in the
amounts following for each telephone instrument used, controlled and
operated by it in the conduct of such business:
"A license tax of Two Dollars ($2.00) for each such instrument.
"No bill, statement or account rendered or given any customer by
any telephone company shall set out or contain, as a separate item,

COONEY v. MOUNTAIN STATES TEL. CO. 387
384

Opinion of the Court.

eral Constitution, was sustained by the District Court of
three judges (28 U. S. C. 380) which entered a final decree
permanently enjoining enforcement. 7 F. Supp. 12. The
defendants, state officers, bring this appeal.
The District Court received evidence and made findings
of fact substantially as follows: Plaintiff is a Colorado corporation operating a statewide telephone system in Montana; it furnishes telephone service of an interstate and
intrastate character; its system extends throughout Monany amount on account or by reason of the license tax imposed by
this Act. Every person, firm, co-partnership, association, joint stock
company, syndicate or any corporation affected by the provisions of
this Act shall be permitted to claim as exempt from the tax imposed
by this Act any telephone instrument where the rate charged the
customer therefor does not exceed Two Dollars .($2.00) per month
for residence phone, or Four Dollars ($4.00) per month for business
house or office phone. Provided further, that the provisions of this
Act shall not apply to mutual telephone companies or lines not
organized or used or operated for private or corporate gain.
"Section 2. That Section 4, of Chapter 174, of the Session Laws of
1933, be amended to read as follows:
"Section 4. Five per centum (5%) of the license fees paid to the
State Treasurer under this Act are hereby appropriated and shall be
set aside by him for the purpose of defraying the cost of administering this Act by the State Board of Equalization, and the remaining
ninety-five per centum (95%) thereof shall be by him credited to
the Emergency Relief Fund until such time as the Governor may
issue a proclamation to the effect that the same is no longer required
for such Emergency Relief Fund,,and after the issuance of such proclamation said ninety-five per centum (95%) of such license fees shall
be by such State Treasurer credited to the General Fund of the
State."
"Section 3. No tax which has attached, accrued, or become due or
payable under the provisions of Chapter 174, Session Laws, 1933,
shall be released or waived by the passage or approval of this Act
but the same shall be paid as provided in said Chapter before its
amendment by this Act.
', Section 4. This Act shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage and approval."

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

tana, Idaho, Utah, Wyoming, Colorado, Arizona, New
Mexico, and a part of Texas; its telephone instruments in
Montana are an integral part of its system, and are a part
of a still greater system extending throughout the United
States and to many foreign countries, so that each of the
telephones in Montana (except 45 not affected by the
statute) is available for interstate and foreign communication by connection with many millions of telephones;
the statute in question affects over 34,000 of the telephones in Montana, and, of these, more than 10,000 have
actually been used in interstate and foreign commerce since
the statute was enacted, and it is reasonably likely that all
plaintiff's telephone instruments in Montana will be so
used; plaintiff pays the usual property taxes in Montana
and also the corporation license or occupation taxes, which
are a percentage of its intrastate revenues; all its telephones are instrumentalities of interstate and foreign commerce and plaintiff "could not discontinue its intrastate
business and operations in Montana without virtually destroying and being compelled to abandon and withdraw
from its interstate and foreign business."
Appellants contend that the taxes are imposed solely
upon intrastate commerce and do not burden interstate
commerce. They insist that the taxes are laid upon the
intrastate business measured by the number of telephones
in intrastate use. Appellants challenge the findings that
all of appellee's telephones in Montana are instrumentalities of interstate and foreign commerce, and that appellee
could not discontinue its intrastate business without being
compelled to withdraw from its interstate and foreign
business, as being unsupported by the evidence.
1. It does not appear that these acts have been construed by any decision of the state courts. Appellants
cite a decision of the Supreme Court of Montana constru. ing ยง 4071 of the Political Code of 1895, as amended by
the laws of 1897, p. 202, which provided for a tax on tele-

COONEY v. MOUNTAIN STATES TEL. CO. 389
384

Opinion of the Court.

phone companies doing business in the State of a certain
amount per year for each instrument in use. State v.
Rocky Mountain Bell Telephone Co., 27 Mont. 394; 71
Pac. 311. In view of the terms of that statute, the court
concluded that the legislature intended to impose a license
tax "on each telephone instrument used in purely local
or intrastate business, and that as to instruments used in
interstate business it was intended to have no application
whatever." Id., p. 404. Compare Ogden City v. Crossman, 17 Utah 66; 53 Pac. 985. A few days later, the
Supreme Court of Montana decided the case of State v.
Northern Pacific Express Co., 27 Mont. 419; 71 Pac. 404;
and held that the occupation tax imposed by ยง 4074 of the
Political Code of the State, as applied to an express company, offended against the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution. The court distinguished its ruling in
the case of the Rocky Mountain Bell Telephone Co. because the statute there "by express terms" had discriminated "between local and interstate commerce" and the
intention that "only* local business" should be subject to
the license tax "was clearly expressed." The court thus
stated the principle which it considered to be applicable
(id., p. 422): "If, however, the terms of the statute are
general; and the license fee a unit charged against the
business of the carrier as such,-as strictly an occupation
tax,-and no attempt is made by the language of the
statute to discriminate between the local and interstate
business, but the license is required as a condition precedent to the carrier's commencing or conducting business,
then the imposition of the tax will be deemed an interference with and an attempt to regulate interstate commerce, and for that reason void." Applying that principle, the court found the tax upon the express company
to be invalid as the statute did not "by its terms attempt
to make any discrimination between the local and interstate business of the defendant company, and no such

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

discrimination can be made under any fair construction of
the language employed." Id., p. 427. It is evident that
these decisions of the state court do not aid appellants'
contention.
The tax is a privilege, or occupation, tax. The terms of
the acts are explicit with respect to the incidence of the
tax. Chapter 174 of the Laws of 1933 provides that every
corporation "engaged in the business of operating or
maintaining telephone lines and furnishing telephone
service in the State of Montana . . . shall pay . . . a
license tax . . .for each telephone instrument used, con-

trolled and operated by it in the conduct of such business."
The business is the maintaining of telephone lines and
the furnishing of telephone service in the State. No distinction is made between interstate and intrastate service.
The tax is then stated to be "for each telephone instrument used, controlled and operated." Again, there is no
limitation as to use, control or operation in intrastate business. The tax is "based upon the number of telephone
instruments owned, controlled and operated "during all or
any part of the calendar year. A" telephone instrument"
is defined in section two of the act as "a transmitter and
receiver capable of use in the transmitting and receiving
of telephone communications." The tax is thus laid simply by reason of the fact that the company is furnishing
telephone service and is based upon the number of telephone instruments used in that service without regard to
its character whether intrastate or interstate. The provision of the second tax act, Chapter 54 of the Laws of 193334, is in this respect substantially the same.
To support their contention, appellants point to the
proviso, in the first act, that the tax "shall not be imposed
on any telephone instrument where the rate charged the
customer therefor does not exceed Two Dollars ($2.00) per
month for residence phone, or Three Dollars ($3.00) per
month for business house or office phone." There is a cor-

COONEY v. MOUNTAIN STATES TEL. CO. 391
Opinion of the Court.

384

responding exclusion in the second act.2 But these are
merely exempting provisions. They carve out of the statute telephone instruments for which certain monthly rates
are paid. The question is not as to the instruments that
are not taxed, but as to those which are taxed. All the
telephone instruments, not excepted, whether they are
used in intrastate or interstate commerce and however the
service is paid for, are left subject to the tax. It is urged
that monthly rates are charged to the customer for merely
local service and are distinct from toll rates or charges for
long distance calls which, whether intrastate or interstate,
are on a "board to board" basis. But the tax is not laid
on revenues. It is not laid on revenue derived from
monthly rates as distinguished from toll charges. It is
not imposed with respect either to the nature of the revenue, or to the character of the service from which the
revenue is derived, or to the manner in which the charges
for the service are fixed.
The evidence supports the findings that these telephone
instruments are available for interstate and foreign communications. Appellants contend that a "potential use,
or even an occasional use for interstate or foreign commerce, is too remote, indefinite and indirect to permit such
instruments to be classified as instrumentalities of interstate or foreign commerce, when, in fact, such instruments
are used exclusively or almost exclusively for intrastate
commerce." But the telephone instruments constitute a
class of facilities, which, as such, are subject to the tax,
and the findings, based on evidence, show that the interstate use is actual, not merely potential; substantial, not
negligible. More than 10,000 of these instruments have
actually been used in interstate and foreign commerce
since the tax was laid. The evidence also shows that the
same telephones, the same signaling apparatus, the same
See Note 1.

392

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

wires, land, buildings, central office equipment, and operating organization are used in common for all services,
interstate as well as intrastate. It was in this view that
the District Court held that it was not feasible to provide
separate statewide systems for intrastate and interstate
telephones. But, apart from that question, it appears that
in the operation of this unified system, the telephone instruments are the means by which the customers command
at their pleasure the service they desire whether intrastate
or interstate. And, so far as the instruments are not excepted, the tax is laid indiscriminately with respect to each
of these facilities, regardless of the nature of their use.
2. There is no question that the State may require payment of an occupation tax from one engaged in both intrastate and interstate commerce.' But a State cannot tax
interstate commerce; it cannot lay a tax upon the business
which constitutes such commerce or the privilege of engaging in it.' And the fact that a portion of a business is
intrastate and therefore taxable does not justify a tax
'Ratterman v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 127 U. S. 411; Pacific Express Co. v. Seibert, 142 U. S. 339; Lehigh Valley R. Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 145 U. S. 192; Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Charleston, 153 U. S. 692; Osborne v. Florida, 164 U. S. 650; Pullman Co.
v. Adams, 189 U. S. 420; Allen v. Pullman Co., 191 U. S. 171; Kehrer
ir. Stewart, 197 U. S. 60; Ohio Tax Cases, 232 U. S. 576; St. Louis
Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S 350; People ex rel. Cor,ell Steamboat Co. v. Sohmer, 235 U. S. 549; Postal Telegraph Cable
Co. v. Richmond, 249 U. S. 252; Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Fremont, 255 U. S. 124; Raley & Bros. v. Richardson, 264 U. S. 157;
East Ohio Gas Co. v. Tax Commission, 283 U. S. 465.
"State Freight Tax Case, 15 Wall. 232; Pickard v. Pullman Southern Car Co., 117 U. S. 34; Robbins v. Shelby Taxing District, 120
U. S. 489; Philadelphia & Southern S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122
U. S. 326; Leloup v. Mobile, 127 U. S. 640; Crutcher v. Kentucky,
141 U. S. 47; Adams Express Co. v. New York, 232 U. S. 14; Bowman
v. Continental Oil Co., 256 U. S. 642; Sprout v. South Bend, 277 U. S.
163, 171; New Jersey Bell Telephone Co. v. State Board of Taxes, 280
U. S. 338.

COONEY v. MOUNTAIN STATES TEL. CO. 393
384

Opinion of the Court.

either upon the interstate business or upon the whole
business without discrimination. Leloup v. Mobile, 127
U. S. 640. There are "sufficient modes" in which the
local business may be taxed without the imposition of a
tax "which covers the entire operations." Id., p. 647.
See Williams v. Talladega,226 U. S. 404, 419. Where the
tax is exacted from one doing both an interstate and intrastate business, it must appear that it is imposed solely on
account of the latter; that the amount exacted is not increased because of the interstate business done; that one
engaged exclusively in interstate commerce would not be
subject to the tax; and that the one who is taxed could
discontinue the intrastate business without also withdrawing from the interstate business. Sprout v. South,
Bend, 277 U. S. 163, 171; East Ohio Gas Co. v. Tax Commission, 283 U. S. 465, 470.
A privilege or occupation tax which a State imposes with
respect to both interstate and intrastate business, through
an indiscriminate application to instrumentalities common
to both sorts of commerce, has frequently been held to be
invalid. Leloup v. Mobile, supra; Pickard v. Pullman
Southern Car Co., 117 U. S. 34, 46; Crutcherv. Kentucky,
141 U. S. 47, 59; Adams Express Co. v. New York, 232
U. S. 14, 29, 31; United States Express'Co. v. New York,
232 U. S. 35, 36; Bowman v. Continental Oil Co., 256
U. S. 642, 647, 648. In the cases of the express companies,
the principle was applied to a privilege tax imposed alike
with respect to wagons used in the movement of both interstate and intrastate shipments. The local shipments
"were handled in the same vehicles, and by the same
men" that were employed in connection with the interstate transportation and it was impracticable to effect a
separation. Adams Express Co. v. New York, supra;
United States Express Co. v. New York, supra. In Bowman v. ContinentalOil Co., supra,the question arose under
a statute of New Mexico laying an annual license tax of

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

294 U. 8:

fifty dollars for each station distributing gasoline. The
Court pointed out the distinction between an excise tax
on sales of gasoline where, as the subject matter was separable, full protection could be afforded by enjoining enforcement as to the interstate business, and the license tax
which with its prohibition fell upon the business as a
whole. The Court said: "But with the license tax it is
otherwise. If the statute is inseparable, then both by its
terms and by its legal operation and effect this tax is imposed generally upon the entire business conducted, including interstate commerce as well as domestic; and the
tax is void." The difficulty, continued the Court, "is that,
since plaintiff, so far as appears, necessarily conducts its
interstate and domestic commerce in gasoline indiscriminately at the same stations and by the same agencies, the
license tax cannot be enforced at all without interfering
with interstate commerce unless it be enforced otherwise.
than as prescribed by the statute-that is to say, without
authority of law. Hence, it cannot be enforced at all."
In the instant case, the tax, being indivisible and indiscriminate in its application, necessarily burdens interstate
commerce. We do not pass upon the other questions
presented.
Decree affirmed.
AKTIESELSKABET CUZCO v. THE SUCARSECO
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 524.

Argued February 14,

1935.-Decided March 4, 1935.

1. The essential conditions of general average are a common, imminent peril and a voluntary sacrifice, or extraordinary expenses
necessarily made or incurred, to avert the peril, with a result-'
ing common benefit to 'the adventure. The sacrifices or expenses

