OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Counsel for Parties.

294 U. S.

PATTERSON v. ALABAMA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ALABAMA.

No. 554.

Argued February 15, 18, 1935.-Decided April 1, 1935.

1. Upon review of a judgment of a state court disposing of the case
on a point of local practice without adjudicating a claim of federal
right, this Court must examine the record and determine whether
the non-federal ground is adequate to sustain the judgment. P. 602.
2. In the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction over a judgment from
a state court, this Court has power, not only to correct error in
the judgment under review, but to make" such disposition of the
case as justice requires; and where any change, either in fact or in
law, has supervened since the judgment was entered, which may
affect the result, the judgment may be set aside and the cause
remanded in order'that the state court may be free to act. P. 607.
3. Semble that, under § 6434 of the Code of Alabama, the fact that
a bill of exceptions was not filed in time, though ground for striking it on motion to the Supreme Court, does not deprive that
court of jurisdiction to entertain it. P. 605.
4. The Supreme Court of Alabama affirmed death sentences in two
cases in both of which, on the same evidence, it was contended
that the defendants, who were negroes, were deprived Qf constitutional rights by intentional exclusion of all negroes from the
grand and petit juries. In one of the cases, this defense was by
that court overruled; in the other it was not considered because the
bill of exceptions, necessary for its presentation, was held to have
been filed too late. Upon review here, this Court, having reversed
the judgment in the first case because the constitutional objection
was well taken, vacated the judgment in the second case also in
order that the state court might be free to reconsider it. P. 607.
229 Ala. 270; 156 So. 567, vacated.

CERTIORARI, 293 U. S.

554, to review a judgment affirm-

ing a conviction of rape.
p. 587.

Cf. Norris v. Alabama, ante,

Mr. Walter H. Pollak, with whom Messrs. Osmond K.
Fraenkel and Carl S. Stern were on the brief, for
petitioner.

PATTERSON v. ALABAMA.
600

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Thomas E. Knight, Jr., Attorney General of Alabama, with whom Mr. ThomasSeay Lawson, Assistant
Attorney General, was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.

Petitioner, Haywood Patterson, was indicted with Clarence Norris (the petitioner in No. 534, ante, p. 587) and
seven other negro boys in Jackson County, Alabama, for
the crime of rape. Judgment of conviction was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of the State. That judgment, and
like judgments in the case of Norris and others, were reversed by this Court. Powell v. Alabama, 287 U. S. 45.
After the remand, all of the cases were transferred for
trial to Morgan County. Patterson was the first of those
retried. The jury found a verdict against him which the
trial judge set aside as against the weight of evidence.
He was then brought to trial for a third time before another Judge, in November, 1933, and was again convicted.
The judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
State. 229 Ala. 270; 156 So. 567. This Court granted
a writ of certiorari. 293 U. S. 554.
At the beginning of the last trial, as on the previous
trial, a motion was made on Patterson's behalf to quash
the indictment upon the ground of the exclusion of
negroes from juries in Jackson County where the indictment was found. Defendant also moved to quash the trial
ven ire in Morgan County because of the exclusion of
negroes from jury service in that county. In each of these
motions, defendant contended that there Was a long-continued, systematic and arbitrary exclusion of qualified
negroes from jury service, solely by reason of their race
or color, in violation of the Federal Constitution. These
motions were the same as those which were made on
the trial of Norris, which immediately followed this third
trial of Patterson. It was stipulated in the case of

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

Norris, and the trial court there ruled, that the papers
filed and the testimony adduced upon the similar motions
on the trial of Patterson should be treated as applicable,
and the motions in the case of Norris were thus heard upon
evidence which had been submitted on the trial of Patterson. The opinions of the trial judge denying these
motions were the same in both cases.
In this aspect, the federal question now sought to be
presented on behalf of Patterson is precisely the same as
that which we have considered and decided in Norris'
case, ante, p. 587. But the State, by its Attorney General,
contends that this Court has no jurisdiction in the instant
case, in the view that the decision of the state court
rested entirely upon a question of state appellate procedure and that no federal question is involved. Counsel for defendant opposes that view, and it becomes necessary for us to examine the record in order to determine
whether the judgment of the state court is based upon a
non-federal ground adequate to sustain it. Ward v. Love
County, 253 U. S. 17, 22; Davis v. Wechsler, 263 U. S.
22, 24, 25; Broad River Power Co. v. South Carolina,281
U. S. 537, 540; Abie State Bank v. Bryan, 282 U. S. 765,
773; Lawrence v. State Tax Comm'n, 286 U. S. 276, 282.
The question arises from the action of the Supreme
Court of the State in striking defendant's bill of exceptions, which contaifted the evidence taken by the trial
court on the motions to quash, upon the ground that the
bill had not been presented in time. So holding, the
Supreme Court of the State disregarded all questions reviewable alone by bill of exceptions, and, finding no error
in tlie record as thus considered, affirmed the judgment.
The court did not discuss the federal question..
Undei" the Code of Alabama, a bill of exceptions must
be presented "within ninety days from the day on which
the judgment is entered," or "within ninety days after
the granting or refusing of a motion for a new trial."

PATTERSON v. ALABAMA.
600

Opinion of the Court.

Ala. Code, § 6433. Another section of the Code provides
that "after the lapse of thirty days from the date on
which a judgment or decree was rendered, the court shall
lose all power over it, as completely as if the end of the
term had been on that day, unless a motion to set aside
the judgment or decree, or grant a new trial has been
filed and called to the attention of the court, and an order
entered continuing it for hearing to a future day." Ala.
Code. §, 6670.
The jury found its verdict against Patterson on December 1, 1933, and the court then adjudged him guilty as
charged. On December 6, 1933, he was sentenced to
death. The bill of exceptions was presented on March
5, 1934.
Upon the return of the verdict on December 1st,
defendant's counsel requested an extension beyond thirty
(lays within which to file a motion for a new trial, stating
that a transcript of the testimony would be needed in
order to prepare a proper motion. The application was
denied, the trial judge stating in effect that defendant's
counsel had thirty days within which to make a motion
for a new trial, and that, after a motion so made, he
might apply to the trial judge for "additional thirty day
periods" in order to file an amended motion based upon the
transcript. The motion for a new trial was filed on December 29, 1933, and it appears that a copy of the motion
papers was received by the Attorney General without
objection. On request of defendant's counsel, the motion
was continued by the trial judge until February 24, 1934.
The Attorney General then moved to strike the motion
upon the ground that it had been filed after the expiration of the term of court, at which defendant was tried,
and hence that the court was without jurisdiction. It
appeared that the term had expired on December 23,
1933. The trial judge granted the motion to strike and
the Supreme Court of the State sustained the ruling.

604

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

The state court pointed out that the ruling was in
accord with Morris v. Corona Coal Co. (1926), 215 Ala.
47; 109 So. 278, in which the question had been directly
presented.' The court said that the governing statutes,
including § 6670, above quoted, were codified from the
Act of 1915, page 707, §§ 1 and 3; that, previously,
all motions for new trials were required to be made within
the terms; that, as to cases at law, terms were not abolished; that the statute making judgments final after
thirty days was restrictive of the rule which had theretofore obtained by which the judgments were deemed to be
within the breast of the court until the end of the term;
and that the effect of the decision in the Morris case was
to hold that the statute had not abrogated "the established rule that all judgments become final with the end
of the term" and did not extend the thirty day period
beyond that time. The court cited several cases to show
that the ruling was "in keeping with former decisions
through a long period of years."
But the striking of the motion for a new trial did not
dispose of the bill of exceptions. It would still have
been in time if it had been presented within ninety days
from the day of the judgment. It was in time if that day
was December 6, 1933, when defendant was sentenced,
but it was too late if judgment was entered on December
1, 1933. The Supreme Court of the State took the latter
view. The court held that the time for presenting bills
of exceptions "runs from the date of the judgment of
guilty, not from the date of sentence." The court cited
the case of Lewis v. State (1915), 194 Ala.' 1; 69 So. 913,
where that rule had been laid down. And in view of this
long established rule in Alabama as to the day from which
'In the Morris case the verdict and judgment were of December
19, 1924; the motion for a new trial wa, of December 27, 1924, after
the term had expired; and the motion had been passed to January,
5, 1925, for hearing.

PATTERSON v. ALABAMA.
600

Opinion of the Court.

the time should be reckoned, the state court was undoubtedly at liberty, without violating any federal right,
to hold that the bill of exceptions had not been presented
within the designated period of ninety days.
There remains, however, a further question. For it
does not appear that the failure to file a bill of exceptions
in time is sufficient in itself to deprive the state appellate
court of jurisdiction. On the contrary, the statute of
Alabama expressly denies to the court the authority, on
its own motion, to strike a bill of exceptions because not
filed in time, and provides for that action only upon motion of a party to the record or his attorney. The statute
in terms allows parties to waive the objection. We quote.
its provisions: "The appellate court may strike a bill of
exceptions from the record or file because not presented
or signed within the time required by law, but shall not do
so ex mero rnotu, but only on motion of a party to the
record or his attorney; the object and effect of this statute
being to allow parties to waive or consent for the time
of signing bills of exceptions." Ala. Code, § 6434. The
state court cited its former decisions which construed the
"waiver or consent," to which the provision referred, to
be "such as is indicated by a failure to move to strike
upon submission of the cause on appeal," and held that
when such a motion is made, it is the duty of the court to
grant it. Baker v. Central of Georgia Ry. Co., 165 Ala.
466; 51 So. 796; Ex parte Hill, 205 Ala. 631; 89 So. 58;
Ettore v. State, 214 Ala. 99; 106 So. 508; Beatty v. McMillan, 226 Ala. 405; 147 So. 180.
While we must have proper regard to this ruling of the
state court in relation to its appellate procedure, we cannot ignore the exceptional features of the present case.
An important question under the Federal Constitution
was involved, and, from that standpoint, the case did -not
stand alone. As the opinion of the state court observes,
there was " being considered along with this cause, the ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

peal of Clarence Norris v. Alabama, 156 So. 556, from a
conviction under the same indictment." 156 So. pp. 567,
568. The validity of the common indictment had been
challenged by a motion on behalf of both defendants becaiie of the unconstitutional discrimination. It is true
that the Pattersoncase was brought up on a separate appeal, and on a separate record, but it appeared from the
record before the court in the Norris case that the evidence upon the motions to quash was the same evidence
(introduced by stipulation) as that which had been taken
in the Patterson case. The bills of exceptions had been
presented in both cases on the same day, March 5, 1934.
When the Attorney General, on February 24, 1934, had
moved to strike the motion for a new trial, he had expressly referred to the judgment as having been rendered
on December 6, 1933, a statement not obviously inaccurate, because there was an entry of a formal judgment
of sentence on that day, 'and, coming from the Attorney
General, the statement may have misled defendant's
counsel. If that statement had been correct, the bill of
exceptions would have been timely. The Attorney General did not make his motion until May 25, 1934. We
are not advised that previous state decisions had dealt
with a situation having such unusual incidents.
The decisions in the two cases were announced on the
same day. The state court decided the constitutional
question against Norris, and it was manifestly with that
conclusion in-mind that the court approached the decision
in the case of Patterson and struck his bill of exceptions.
We are not satisfied that the court would have dealt with
the case in the same way if it had determined the constitutional question as we have determined it. We are not
convinced that the court, in the presence of such a detbrmination of constitutional right, confronting the anomalous and grave situation which would be created by a
reversal of the judgment against Norris, and an affirmance
of the judgment of death in the companion case of Patter-

PATTERSON v. ALABAMA.
600

. Opinion of the Court.

son, who had asserted the same right, and having regard
to the relation of the two cases and the other circumstances disclosed by the record, would have considered
itself powerless to entertain the bill of exceptions or otherwise to provide appropriate relief. It is always hazardous
to apply a judicial ruling, especially in a matter of procedure, to a serious situation which was not in contemplation when the ruling was made. At least the state court
should have an opportunity to examine its powers in
the light of the situation which has now developed. We
should not foreclose that opportunity.
We have frequently held that in the exercise of our
appellate jurisdiction we have power not only to correct
error in the judgment under review but to make such
disposition of the case as justice requires. And in determining what justice does require, the Court is bound to
consider any change, either in fact or in law, which has
supervened since the judgment was entered. We may
recognize such a change, which may affect the result, by
setting aside the judgment and remanding the case so
that the state court may be free to act. We have said
that to do this is not to review, in any proper sense of the
term, the decision of the state court upon a non-federal
question, but only to deal appropriately with a matter
arising since its judgment and having a bearing upon the
right disposition of the case. Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v.
Dennis, 224 U. S. 503, 507; Watts, Watts & Co. v. Unione
Austriaca, 248 U. S. 9, 21; Dorchy v. Kansas, 264 U. S.
286, 289; Missouri ex rel. Wabash Ry. Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, 273 U. S. 126, 131.
Applying that principle of decision, we vacate the judgment and remand the case to the state court for further
proceedings.
Judgment vacated.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS did not hear the argument
and took no part in the consideration and decision of this
case.

