OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

294 U. S.

found that the grabiron was not secure for use strictly as
a handhold; and that if it had been, it would not have
failed, since the use made of it by Swinson did not subject
it to appreciably greaterstrain. There was evidence, also,
that use as a foot brace was a natural and not unusual one.
For such a use of the grabiron, Swinson was entitled to
assume that it was secure. Compare Lehigh Valley R.
Co. v. Howell, 6 F. (2d) 784; Didingerv. PennsylvaniaR.
Co., 39 F. (2d) 798.
Reversed.

ALASKA PACKERS ASSOCIATION v. INDUSTRIAL
ACCIDENT COMMISSION OF CALIFORNIA ET
AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 465. Argued February 8, 11, 1935.-Decided March 11, 1935.
1. The terms, obligations and sanctions of a contract are subject, in
some measure, to the legislative control of the State in which it is
made, even though it is to be performed elsewhere. P. 540.
2. Where a contract of employment is made in a State, though for
work in another jurisdiction and though the parties expressly
stipulate to be bound by the workmen's compensation law of that
other jurisdiction, if the State where it is made has a legitimate
public interest of its own to insure that the workman shall be
compensated for injuries suffered in the course of his employment
beyond its borders, it is not prevented by the due process clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment from allowing him its own compensation remedy for such injuries and from declining to remit
him to his remedy in the other jurisdiction or to substitute that
remedy in its own forum. Cf. Bradford Electric Light Co. v.
Clapper,286 U. S. 145. Pp. 540, 542.
The improbability that workers employed in California for seasonal occupation in Alaska, 3,000 miles away, and not to. be paid
until their return, would be able to apply for compensation when
injured in Alaska, or once returned to Californiawould be able to
go back to Alaska and successfully prosecute their claims; and the
probability that, if without a remedy in California courts, they

ALASKA PACKERS ASSN. v. COMM'N.
532

533

Argument for Appellant.

would be remediless and likely to become public charges on that
State, suggest that California has a legitimate public interest in
imposing liability for such injuries upon the employer and in providing a remedy for such employees available in California.
3. Legislation affecting the status of employer and employee, within
the scope of acknowledged state power and not unreasonable in its.
exercise, can not be condemned because it curtails the power (f the
individual to contract. P. 543.
4. The extent to which the statute of one State may qualify or
deny rights asserted under the statute of another presents a question under the full faith and credit clause which this Court, upon
review of a judgment of a state court, must determine for itself;
equally whether the statute of the forum is set up as a defense to
a suit brought under the foreign statute or the foreign statute is
-set up as a defense to a suit or proceedings under the local
statute. P. 547.
5. A conflict thus arising is to be resolved, not by automatically compeling the courts of each State to subordinate its own statutes to
those of the other, but by appraising the governmental interests of
each jurisdiction, and determining the question accordingly. P. 547.
6. Upon the facts of this case, which involves a conflict in the California courts between the workmen's compensation laws of California and Alaska, the interest of Alaska is not shown to be superior
to that of California; and therefore the Alaska statute can not be
given the effect of denying to the courts of California the right
to apply the law of that State. Pp. 544, 550.
In so deciding, the Court assumes that by R. S., §§ 905, 906,
the command of the full faith and credit clause is made applicable
to territorial statutes with the same force and effect as that of
the constitutional provision with respect to statutes of the States,
1 Cal. (2d) 250; 34 P. (2d) 716, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment affirming an award
made by

the Industrial Accident Commission of California under
the workmen's compensation law of that State.
Mr. Francis Gill, with whom Messrs. Frank D. Madison,Marshall P. Madison, and Eugene M. Prince were on
the brief, for appellant.
The adoption by Alaska of its Workmen's Compensation Act (Sess. L., 1929, c. 25) applicable to industrial

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Appellant.

294 U. S.

injuries in Alaska was within the power of the territorial
legislature. Organic Act, § 9, 37 Stat. 514; 48 U. S. C.
77; North Alaska Salmon Co. v. Pillsbury, 174 Cal. 1, 5.
The Alaska act is optional, but had been accepted by the
parties in the employment contract, and there is no question that this employment was within its terms. Section
905 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (28 U.
S. C. 687) requires full faith and credit to be accorded to
territorial statutes. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v.
Sowers, 213 U. S.55, 64-65.
The Alaska Compensation Act provideg exclusive rights
and remedies (§ 10); so does the California statute (§ 6).
There can not be two exclusive jurisdictions over the same
-subject matter. Therefore, if the California award was
a valid exercise of an exclusive jurisdiction, as it purported to be, it altogether precludes proceedings under
the Alaska statute. The statute of Alaska-the jurisdiction in which all the work was done and where the injury
occurred-is unquestionably applicable to the case, but it
can never be applied unless it is accorded full faith and
credit in California, or unless the California award can
be disregarded and the appellant subjected in Alaska to
another recovery for the same injury. Such double recovery would be contrary to the requirements of due process and would invalidate one or the other of the two
statutes on that ground. Consequehtly, one or the other
must give way in any view of the case, and the circumstances of this case require the California courts to give
effect to the Alaska statute and to the defense predicated
on it.
While we know of no case in which like facts have been
presented, we submit that the principles stated in Bradford FectricCo. v. Clapper,286 U. S. 145, and in Ohio v.
ChattanoogaBoiler Co., 289 U. S.439, as applied to the
facts of this case, require full faith and credit for the
Alaska statute.

ALASKA PACKERS ASSN. v. COMM'N.
532

Argument for Appellant.

It is an elementary principle in.conflict of laws that the
contract is governed by the laws with a view to which the
parties make it. Wayman v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1, 48.
The only significance of the place of making or the place
of performance, from the standpoint of conflict of laws, is
to determine the intention of the parties as to what law
should govern, and these considerations are immaterial
when the matter is covered by express contract.
It is true that the California Industrial Accident Commission, an administrative body, can not administer the
Alaska act because the Alaska statute provides for the
assessment of the statutory compensation in an action in
a court of general jurisdiction. But this fact does not
justify the denial of the validity and effect of the Alaska
statute when pleaded as a defense to proceedings under
the California act. Neither is it any excuse or warrant
for the failure in this case to recognize Palma's right
against appellant as a foreign right, and as such controlled
by the rules of its origin (Cuban R. Co. v. Crosby, 222
U. S. 473; Slater v. Mexican National R. Co., 194 U. S.
120); nor does it justify disregarding the limitations upon
appellant's liability provided by the, Alaska statute.
Atchison, T. & S.. F. Ry. Co. v. Sowers, 213 U S. 55;
Tennessee Coal, I. & R. Co. v. George, 233 U. S. 354.
Unless the Alaska statute is given effect in California,
it is denied operation altogether as a practical matter.
The'California statute, in such event, has been extended
into the jurisdiction of Alaska, has excluded the operation
of tl~e Alaska statute and invalidated a contract between
the parties which related to Alaska work and which was
unquestionably valid under the Alaska law. This is a
clear denial of full faith and credit. New York Life Ins.
Co. v. Head, 234 U. S. 139.
If the California statute does not offer an exclusive
remedy where the employee has a right to compensation
under the act in force at the place of injury, then, under

536

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Appellant.

294 U. S.

Ohio V.ChattanoogaBoiler Co., 289 U. S. 439, there could
be no possibility of recognizing the California act.
The California statute is compulsory (§ 27a). It requires an employer to insure payment of compensation to
his employees or to qualify as a self-insurer by posting
bonds upon which he must pay premiums (§ 29). Under
the decision in this case, appellant can not make an employment contract in California for seasonal work in
Alaska exclusively without assuming these and other burdens, notwithstanding the fact that appellant must meet
the requirements of the Alaska law as to these same
employees.
It is also self-evident that the application of the California Act to injuries in Alaska is more burdensome to the
employer than its application to injuries in California,
because of the difficulty of defense.
We submit that the State has no reasonable basis for
extending, and no power to extend, its compulsory workmen's compensation act to extraterritorial injuries arising
from such employment. See Murray v. Joe Gerrick & Co.,
291 U. S. 315; Ford, Bacon & Davis v. Volentine, 64 F.
(2d) 800; Industrial Commission v. Gardinio, 119 Ohio
St. 539; Altman v. Workmen's Compensation Bureau, 50
N. D. 215; Johnson v. Industrial Accident Comm'n, 45
Ohio App. 125; Post v. Burger & Gohlke, 216 N. Y. 544;
Smith v. Heine Sa'ety Boiler Co., 224 N. Y. 9; Perlis v.
Lederer, 188 App. Div. 425; American Mutual Liability
Ins. Co. v. McCaffrey, 37 F. (2d) 870. Liability under
such a statute is not contractual in any true sense (Smith
v. Heine Safety Boiler Co., 224 N. Y. 9), but is an obligation 'in the nature of a tax. Mountain Timber Co. v.
Washington, 243 U. S. 219, 240. See also, dissenting
opinion of Mr. JUSTIcE BRANDEIS in New York Central

R. Co. v. Winfield, 244 U. S. 147, 167.
Still further, in sustaining the award, the Supreme
C6urt of California invalidated the contract of the parties

ALASKA PACKERS ASSN. v. COMM'N.
532

537

Opinion of the Court.

that the Alaska statute should govern the injury. Under
the due process clause, freedom of contract can be abridged
by state statute only within reasonable limits. Truax v.
Raich, 239 U. S. 33. Here the employer was subject to
liability in Alaska for industrial injuries, and the employee
had an adequate remedy there. We submit that it was
unreasonable to invalidate the agreement of the parties
that the Alaska laws should exclusively control their rights
and obligations. The fact that the agreement was made
in California is not enough to justify the courts of that
State in invalidating it. Smith v. Heine Safety Boiler
Co., 224 N. Y. 9. See also, New York Life Ins. Co. v.
Head, 234 U. S. 149.
The compulsory workmen's compensation act of California could not be applied to an injury in-another State
under the circumstances shown by this record. Still less
can it be applied to an injury in a Territory over which
the United States has exclusive jurisdiction. Constitution, Art. IV, § 3, cl. 2. See also, Murray v. Joe Gerrick &
Co., 291 U. S. 315; Farmers'Bank v. Minnesota, 232 U. S.
516.
Mr. Everett A. Corten, with whom Messrs. Elmer P.
Delany and George C. Faulkner were on the brief, for
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is an appeal under § 237 of the Judicial Code from
a judgment of the Supreme Court of California, 1 Cal.
(2d) 250; 34 P. (2d) 716, upholding an award of compensation, by the state Industrial Accident Commission, to
appellee Palma, against appellant, his employer, and holding that the award does not infringe prohibitions of the
Federal Constitution. The award was made in conformity
to the statutes of California, where the contract of employment was. entered into, rather than those of Alaska,
where the injury occurred.

538

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

On May 13, 1932, Palma, a non-resident alien, and appellant, doing business in California, executed at San
Francisco a written contract of employment. Palma
agreed to work for appellant in Alaska during the salmon
canning season; the appellant agreed to transport him to
Alaska and, at the end of the season, to return him to San
Francisco where he was to be paid his stipulated wages,
less advances. The contract recited that appellant had
elected to be bound by the Alaska Workmen's Compensation Law 1 and stipulated that the parties should be subject to and bound by the provisions of that statute. Section 58 of the California Workmen's Compensation Act 2
was then in force, which provides:
"The commission shall have jurisdiction over all controversies arising out of injuries suffered without the territorial limits of this state in those cases where the injured
employee is a resident of this state at the time of the
injury and the contract of hire was made in this State, ....
At that time the California Supreme Court had held in
Quong Ham Wah Co.v. Industrial Accident Comm'n, 184
Cal. 26, 36-44; 192 Pac. 1021 (writ of error dismissed, 255
U. S.445), that this section was applicable to non-residents of California, since the privileges and immunities
clause of the Federal Constitution prevented giving any
effect to the requirement that the employee be a resident.
The California Workmen's Compensation Act also provides, § 27 (a):
:"No contract, rule or regulation shall exempt the employer from liability for the compensation fixed by this
act, . ...
In August, 1932, after his return from Alaska to California, the employee applied for and later received .an
1

L. 1929, c.25; Comp. Laws, 1933, c.XXXII, Art. IV.

'L. 1913, c.176; L. 1917, c.586; L. 1919, c.471; L. 1923, c.161,
c. 379; L. 1929, e. 227; L. 1931, c. 944.

ALASKA PACKERS ASSN. v. COMM'N.
532

539

Opinion of the Court.

award by the California Commission in compensation for
injuries received by him in the course of his employment
in Alaska. On petition for review by the state supreme
court, appellant assailed the California statute, as he does
here, as invalid under the due process and the full faith
and credit clauses of the Federal Constitution. Insofar as
the California statute denies validity to the agreement that
the parties should be bound by the Alaska Workmen's
Compensation Act, and attempts to give a remedy for injuries suffered by a non-resident employee without the
state, it is challenged as a denial of due process. Petitioner
also insists that as the Alaska statute affords, in Alaska, an
exclusive remedy for the injury which occurred there, the
California courts denied full faith and credit to the Alaska
statute by refusing to recognize it as a defense to the application for an award under the California statute.
In refusing to set aside the award of the state commission, the Supreme Court of California ruled, as in Quong
Ham Wah Co. v. IndustrialAccident Comm'n, supra, that
§ 58 of the California Compensation Act was applicable to
Palma, although a non-resident alien; that, as the contract
of employment was entered into within the state, the stipulation that the Alaska Act should govern was invalid under
§ 27 (a). It concluded that the Alaska statute afforded a
remedy to the employee in Alaska and held that by setting up the defense of the Alaska statute in California the
two statutes were brought into conflict, and that in the circumstances neither the due process clause nor the full
faith and credit clause denied to the state the power to
apply its own law, to the exclusion of the Alaska Act, in
fixing and awarding compensation for the injury.
1. The question first to be considered is whether a state,
which may constitutionally impose on employer and employee a system of compensation for injuries to the employee in the course of his employment within the state,
New York Central R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188; Moun-

540

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

tain Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S. 219, is precluded
by the due process clause, in the special circumstances of
this case, from imposing liability for injuries to the
employee occurring in Alaska.
The California statute does not purport to have any
extraterritorial effect, in the sense that it undertakes to
impose a rule for foreign tribunals, nor did the judgment
of the state supreme court give it any. The statute assumes only to provide a remedy to be granted by the
California Commission for inj'uries, received in the course
of employment entered into within the state, wherever
they-may occur. Compare Bradford Electric Light Co. v.
Clapper, 286 U. S. 145, 153. We assume that in Alaska
the employee, had he chosen to do so, could have claimed
the benefits of the Alaska statute, and that if any effect
were there given to the California statute, it would be
only by comity or by virtue of the full faith and credit
clause. Bradford Electric Light Co. v. Clapper,supra.
The due process clause denies to a state any power to
restrict or control the obligation of contracts executed and
to be performed without the state, as an attempt to exercise power over a subject matter not within its constitutional jurisdiction. New York Life Ins. Co. v. Head, 234
U. S. 149, 162-164; New York Life Ins. Co. v. Dodge, 246
U. S. 35?, 377;'Home Insurance Co. v. Dick, 281 U. S. 397,
407, 408; compare National Union Fire Ins. Co. v. Wanberg, 260 U. S. 71, 75. Similarly, a state may not penalize
or tax a contract entered into and to be performed outside the state, although one of the contracting parties is
within the state. Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578;
St. Louis Cotton Compress Co. v. Arkansas, 260 U. S. 346,
348; Compaffia General de Tabacos de Filipinas v. Collector, 275 U. S. 87.
^But where the contract is entered into within the state,
even though it is to be performed elsewhere, its terms,
its obligation and its sanctions are subject, in some meas-

ALASKA PACKERS ASSN. v. COMM'N.
532

541

Opinion of the Court.

ure, to the legislative control of the state. The fact that
the contract is to be performed elsewhere does not of itself
put these incidents beyond reach of .the power which a
state may constitutionally exercise. Selover, Bates &
Co. v. Walsh, 226 U. S. 112, 123; Mutual Life Ins. Co. v.
Liebing, 259 U. S. 209, 214; Manhettan Life Ins. Co. v.
Cohen, 234 U. S. 123, 136; compare Aetna. Life Ins. Co.
v. Dunken, 266 U. S. 389, 397-400.
While similar power to control the legal consequences
of a tortious act committed elsewhere has been denied,
Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Brown, 234 U. S. 542,
547; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Chiles, 214 U. S.
274, 278; compare Western Union Telegraph Co.-i Commercial Milling Co., 218 U. S. 406, the liability under workmen's compensation acts is not for a tort. It is imposed as
an incident of the employment relationship, as a cost to
be borne by the business enterprise, rather than as an attempt to extend redress for the wrongful act of the
employer. See Bradford Electric Light Co. v. Clapper, supra, 157, 158. The California court has declared:
"The contract creates a relationship under the sanction of
the law and the same law attaches as an incident thereto
an obligation to compensate for injuries sustained abroad
amounting to a sort of compulsory insurance." Quong
Ham Wah Co. v. Industrial Accident Comm'n, supra,
36. Obviously the power of a state to effect legal consequences is not limited to occurrences within the state if
it has control over the status which gives rise to those consequences. That it has power, through its own tribunals,
to grant compensation to local employees, locally employed, for injuries received outside its borders, and likewise has power to forbid its own courts to give any other
form of relief for such injury, was fully recognized by
this Court in Bradford Electric Light Co. v. Clapper,
supra, 156. Objections which are founded upon the Fourteenth Amendment must, therefore, be directed, not to

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

the existence of the power to impose liability for an injury
outside state borders, but to the manner of its exercise as
being so arbitrary or unreasonable as to amount to a
denial of due process.
We cannot say that the statutory requirement of California, that the provisions for compensation shall extend
to injuries without the state when the contract for employment was entered into within it, is given such an
unreasonable application in the present case as to transcend constitutional limitations. The employee, an alien
more than 2,000 miles from his home in Mexico, was, with
fifty-three others, employed by petitioner in California.
The contract called for their transportation to Alaska,
some 3,000 miles distant, for seasonal employment of between two and three months, at the conclusion of which
they were to be returned to California, and were there to
receive their wages.
The meagre facts disclosed by the record suggest a
practice of employing workers in California for seasonal
occupation in Alaska, under such conditions as to make
it improbable that the employees injured in the course of
their employment in Alaska would be able to apply for
compensation there. It was necessary for them to return
to California in order to receive their full wages. They
would be accompanied by their fellow workers, who would
normally be the witnesses required to establish the fact of
the injury and its nature. The probability is slight that
injured workmen, once returned to California, would be
able to retrace their steps to Alaska, and there successfully
prosecute their claims for compensation. Without a
remedy in California, they would be remediless, and there
was the danger that they might become public charges,
both matters of grave public concern to the state.
California, therefore, had a legitimate public interest in
controlling and regulating this employer-employee relationship in such fashion as to impose a liability upon the

ALASKA PACKERS ASSN. v. COMM'N.
532

543

Opinion of the Court.

employer for an injury suffered by the employee, and in
providing a remedy available to him in California. In the
special circumstances disclosed, the state had as great an
interest in affording adequate protection to this class of its
population as to employees injured within the state. Indulging the presumption of constitutionality which attaches to every state statute, we cannot say that this one,
as applied, lacks a rational basis or involved any arbitrary
or unreasonable exercise of state power.
It is unnecessary to consider what effect should be given
to the California statute if the parties were domiciled in
Alaska or were their relationship to California such as to
give it a lesser interest in protecting the employee by
securing for him an adequate and readily available
remedy.
In providing a remedy for a liability which the state was
authorized to impose, California was not required by the
Fourteenth Amendment to prescribe the Alaska remedy
rather than its own. Only the full faith and credit clause
imposes on the courts of one state the duty so to enforce
the laws of another.
Nor did the State of California exceed its constitutional
power by prohibiting any stipulation exempting the employer from liability for the compensation prescribed by
the California statute. Legislation otherwise within the
scope of acknowledged state power, not unreasonably or
arbitrarily exercised, cannot be condemned because it curtails the power of the individual to contract. Hardware
Dealers Mutual Fire Ins. Co. v. Glidden Co., 284 U. S.
151, 157, 158. As the state had the power to impose the
liability in pursuance of state policy, it was a rational, and
therefore a permissible, exercise of state power to prohibit
any contract in evasion of it. Chicago, B. & Q. R; Co. v.
McGuire, 219 U. S. 549, 571; see Second Employers' Lia,
bility Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 52; Philadelphia,B. & W. R. Co.
v. Schubert, 224 U. S. 603, 609.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

2. Even though the compensation acts of either jurisdiction may, consistently with due process, be applied in
either, the question remains whether the California court
has failed to accord full faith and credit to the Alaska
statute in refusing to allow it as a defense to the award
of the California Commission. Appellant contends that
as the provisions of the Alaska statute conflict with those
of the California statutes, the full faith and credit clause
and R. S. §§ 905, 906, U. S. C., Title 28, § 687, 688, requiring that full faith and credit be accorded to territorial
statutes, see Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Sowers, 213
U. S. 55, 64, 65, compel recognition of the Alaska statute
as a defense to the proceedings before the California Commission; that the award of the Commission should accordingly be set aside, leaving the employee to his remedy
under the Alaska statute in California, if California provides the remedy, or remitting the parties to their proceeding in Alaska under the territorial statute.
Both statutes are compensation acts, substituting for
the common law recovery for negligence a right. to recover
compensation at specified rates for injuries to employees
in the course of their employment. The California Act is
compulsory, § 6 (a); the Alaska Act is similarly effective,
unless the employer or employee elects not to be bound
by it, §§ 1, 31, 35, which in this case they have not done.
The California Act is administered by a Commission; the
Alaska Act provides for recovery by suit in the courts of
the Territory, brought in the judicial division where the
injury occurs (§§ 24, 25). Each act provides that the liability imposed and the remedy given by it are in lieu of all
others for the injury suffered. §§ 6 (a), 27 (a) of the
California Act; §§ 1, 10, 28 of the Alaska Act. While
§ 58 of the California statute authorizes the Commission
to make an award for injuries suffered without the state,
when the contract of employment is entered into within,
it does not purport to provide, by regulation of the con-

ALASKA PACKERS ASSN. v. COMM'N.
532

545

Opinion of the Court.

tract of employment or otherwise, that the parties may
not resort, without the state, to other remedies given by
the statutes in force at the place of injury. Compare
Bradford Electric Light Co. v. Clapper, supra, 153. The
Alaska Act, § 25, provides that no action shall be brought
under the statute in any court outside the territory, except in the case where it is not possible to obtain service
of process on the defendant within the territory; it is
conceded that appellant may there be served.
Petitioner, in relying on the Alaska statute as a defense
in California, points out that it makes no distinction between residents and non-residents but gives a remedy to
every employee injured in the course of his employmernt
in Alaska, and invokes the rule, often followed in this
Court, that suits to recover for personal injury are transitory, and that the jurisdiction creating the right may not,
by restricting the venue, preclude recovery in any court
outside the state having jurisdiction. See Atchison, T. &
S. F. Ry. Co. v. Sowers, supra, 70; Tennessee Coal, Iron &
R. Co. v. George, 233 U. S.354. The Supreme Court of
California, accepting this view, nevertheless refused to give
effect to the Alaska statute because of its conflict with
the California compensation act. - Since each statute provides a different remedy, the court recognized that, by
setting up the Alaska statute as a defense to the award of
the Commission, the two statutes were brought into direct
conflict. It resolved the conflict by holding that the courts
of California were not bound by the full faith and credit
clause to apply the Alaska statute instead of its own.
To the extent that California is required to give full
faith and credit to the conflicting Alaska statute, it must
'be denied the right to apply in its own courts a statute of
the state, lawfully enacted in pursuance of its domestic
policy. We assume, as did the state court, that the remedy provided in the Alaska statute is one vhich could
also be applied by the California courts, except for the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

flict, We also assume, as the parties concede, that by R. S.
§§ 905, 906, the command of the full faith and credit clause
is made applicable to territorial statutes with the same
force and effect as that of the constitutional provision with
respect to statutes of the states, see Embry v. Palmer, 107
U. S. 3, 8-10; Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. v. Sowers, supra,
64, 65.' The subject of our inquiry is therefore whether
the full faith and credit clause requires the state of California to give effect to the Alaska statute rather than its
own.
. It has often been recognized by this Court that there are
some limitations upon the extent to which a state will be
required by the full faith and credit clause to enforce even
the judgment of another state, in contravention of its own
statutes or policy. See Wisconsin v. Pelican Insurance
Co., 127 U. S. 265; Huntington v. Attrill, 146 U. S. 657;
Finney v. Guy, 189 U. S. 335; see also Clarkev. Clarke, 178
U. S. 186; Hood v. McGehee, 237 U. S. 611; compare
Gasquet v. Fenner, 247 U. S. 16.
'Section 1, Article IV, of the Constitution provides:

"Full faith and credit shall be given in each state to the public
acts, records, and judicial proceedings of every other state. And the
Congress may by general laws prescribe the manner in which such
acts, records and proceedings shall be proved, and the effect thereof."
The Act of May 26, 1790, c. 11, 1 Stat. 122, provided for the
proper authentication of the acts, records and judicial proceedings
and declared:
"And the said records and judicial proceedings authenticated as
aforesaid, shall have such faith and credit given to them in every
court within the United States, as they have by law or usage in the
courts of the state from whence the said records are or shall be
taken."
That of March 27, 1804, c. 56, 2 Stat. 298, extended the provisions
of this statute to the public acts, records and judicial proceedings of
the territories of the United States. These enactments subsequently
became §§ 905, 906 of the Revised Statutes, U. S. C., Tit. 28 §§
687, 688,

ALASKA PACKERS ASSN. v. COMM'N.
532

547

Opinion of the Court.

In the case of statutes, the extra-state effect of which
Congress has not prescribed, where the policy of one state
statute comes into conflict with that of another, the necessity of some accommodation of the conflicting interests
of the two states is still more apparent. A rigid and literal
enforcement of the full faith and credit clause, without
regard to the statute of the forum, would lead to the absurd
result that, wherever the conflict arises, the statute of each
state must be enforced in the courts of the other, but cannot be in its own. Unless by force of that clause a greater
effect is thus to be given to a state statute abroad than the
clause permits it to have at home, it is unavoidable that
this Court determine for itself the extent to which the
statute of one state may qualify or deny rights asserted
under the statute of another. See Olmsted v. Olmsted,
216 U. S. 386; Aetna Life Ins. Co. v. Dunken, supra, 393.
The necessity is not any the less whether the statute and
policy of the forum is set up as a defense to a.suit brought
under the foreign statute or the foreign statute is set up
as a defense to a suit or proceedings under the local statute.
In either case, the conflict is the same. In each, rights
claimed under one statute prevail only by denying effect to
the other. In both the conflict is to be resolved, not by
giving automatic effect to the full faith and credit clause,
compelling the courts of each state to subordinate its own
statutes to those of the other, but by appraising the governmental interests of each jurisdiction, and turning the
scale of decision according to their weight.
The enactment of the present statute of California was
within state power and infringes no constitutional provision. Prima facie every state is entitled to enforce in its
own courts its own statutes, lawfully enacted. One who
challenges that right, because of the force given to a conflicting statute of another state by the full faith and credit
clause, assumes the burden of showing, upon some rational

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

basis, that of the conflicting interests involved those of the
foreign state are superior to those of the forum. It follows
that not every statute of another state will override a conflicting statute of the forum by virtue of the full faith and
credit clause; that the statute of a state may sometimes
override the conflicting statute of another, both at home
and abroad; and, again, that the two conflicting statutes
may each prevail over the other at home, although given
no extraterritorial effect in the state of the other.
This was fully recognized by this Court in Bradford
Electric Light Co. v. Clapper, supra, 157-162. There,
upon an appraisal of the govermnental interests of
the two states, Vermont and New Hampshire, it was
held that the Compensation Act of Vermont, where the
status of employer and employee was established, should
prevail over the conflicting statute of New llampshire,
where the injury occurred and the suit was brought. In
reaching that conclusion, weight was given to the following circumstances: that liability under the Vermont Act
was an incident of the status of employer and employee
created within Vermont, and as such continued in New
Hampshire where the injury occurred; that it was a substitute for a tort action, which was permitted by the statute of New Hampshire; that the Vermont statute expressly provided that it should extend to injuries occurring
without the state and was interpreted to preclude recovery
by proceedings brought in any other state; and that there
was no adequate basis for saying that the compulsory recognition of the Vermont statute by the courts of New
Hampshire would be obnoxious to the public policy of
that state.
If, for the reasons given, the Vermont statute was held
to override the New Hampshire statute in the courts of
'The case arose in the federal district court for New Hampshire.
The state court had not spoken on the subject.

ALASKA PACKERS ASSN. v. COMM'N.
532

549

Opinion of the Court.

New Hampshire, it is hardly to be supposed that the Constitution would require it to be given any less effect in
Vermont, even though the New Hampshire statute were
set up as a defense to proceedings there. Similarly, in the
present case, only if it appears that, in the conflict ef
interests which have found expression in the conflicting
statutes, the interest ofAlaska is superior to that of California, is there rational basis for denying to the courts
of California the right to apply the laws of their own state.
While in Bradford Electric Light Co. v. Clapper, supra,
it did not appear that the subordination of the New
Hampshire statute to that of Vermont, by compulsion of
the full faith and credit clause, would be obnoxious to the
policy of New Hampshii, the Supreme Court of California has declared it to be contrary to the policy of the State
to give effect to the provisions of the Alaska statute and
that they conflict with its own statutes.
There are only two differences material for present purposes, between the facts of the Clappercase and those presented in this case: the employee here is not a resident
of the place in which the employment was begun, and the
employment was wholly to be performed in the jurisdic*tion in which the injury arose. Whether these differences,
with a third-that the Vermont statute was intended to
preclude resort to any other remedy even without the
state-are, when taken with the differences between the
New Hampshire and Alaska compensation laws, sufficient
ground for withholding or denying any effect to the California statute in Alaska, we necd not now inquire. But
it is clear that they do not lessen the interest of California
in enforcing its compensation act within the state, or give
any added weight to the interest of Alaska in having its
statute enforced in California. We need not repeat what
we have already said of the peculiar concern of California
in providing a remedy for those in the situation of the
present employee. Its interest is sufficient to justify its

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

294 U. S.

legislation and is greater than that of Alaska, of which the
employee was never a resident and to which he may never
return. Nor should the fact that the employment was
wholly to be performed in Alaska, although temporary in
character, lead to any different result. It neither diminishes the interest of California in giving a remedy to the
employee, who is a member of a class in the protection of
which the state has an especial interest, nor does it enlarge
the interest of Alaska whose temporary relationship with
the employee has been severed.
The interest of Alaska is not shown to be superior to
that of California. No persuasive reason is shown for
denying to California the right to enforce its own laws in
its own courts, and in the circumstances the full faith and
credit clause does not require that the statutes of Alaska
be given that effect.
Affirmed.

STEWART DRY GOODS CO. v. LEWIS ET AL.*
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 454. Argued February 8, 1935.-Decided March 11, 1935.
1. In determining the validity of a state tax under the Federal Constitution, this Court is not concluded by the name or description

found in the Act, but must ascertain for itself the nature and
effect of the tax. P. 555.

2. Chapter 149 of the Kentucky Acts of 1930 imposed a tax on the
sales of retail merchants determined by the amount of gross sales.
On the first $400,000 of gross sales the rate of tax was 1/20 of
Together with No. 455, Levy et al. v. Lewis et al., and No. 456,

J. C. Penney Co. ,v. Lewis et al. Appeals from the District Court of
the United States for the Western District of Kentucky. Also No.
457, Kroger Grocery & Baking Co. v. Lewiket al. Appeal from the
District Court of the United States for the Eastern District of

Kentucky.

