OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

294 U. S.

legislation and is greater than that of Alaska, of which the
employee was never a resident and to which he may never
return. Nor should the fact that the employment was
wholly to be performed in Alaska, although temporary in
character, lead to any different result. It neither diminishes the interest of California in giving a remedy to the
employee, who is a member of a class in the protection of
which the state has an especial interest, nor does it enlarge
the interest of Alaska whose temporary relationship with
the employee has been severed.
The interest of Alaska is not shown to be superior to
that of California. No persuasive reason is shown for
denying to California the right to enforce its own laws in
its own courts, and in the circumstances the full faith and
credit clause does not require that the statutes of Alaska
be given that effect.
Affirmed.

STEWART DRY GOODS CO. v. LEWIS ET AL.*
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 454. Argued February 8, 1935.-Decided March 11, 1935.
1. In determining the validity of a state tax under the Federal Constitution, this Court is not concluded by the name or description

found in the Act, but must ascertain for itself the nature and
effect of the tax. P. 555.

2. Chapter 149 of the Kentucky Acts of 1930 imposed a tax on the
sales of retail merchants determined by the amount of gross sales.
On the first $400,000 of gross sales the rate of tax was 1/20 of
Together with No. 455, Levy et al. v. Lewis et al., and No. 456,

J. C. Penney Co. ,v. Lewis et al. Appeals from the District Court of
the United States for the Western District of Kentucky. Also No.
457, Kroger Grocery & Baking Co. v. Lewiket al. Appeal from the
District Court of the United States for the Eastern District of

Kentucky.

STEWART DRY GOODS CO. v. LEWIS.
550

551

Statement of the Case.

1%; a different and increasing rate applied to each additional
$100,000 of gross sales up to $1,000,000; the rate on sales over
$1,000,000 was 1%. Held, the class'ification of sales for the purpose
of the tax was arbitrary and violated the equal protection clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 557.
3. A tax on sales is in effect a tax on the goods sold. P. 556.
4. The tax can not be sustained as an excise on the privilege of
merchandising, for there is no reasonable relation between the
amount of the tax and the value of the privilege; there is no
such relation between gross sales---the measure of the tax-and
net profits as will justify the discrimination between taxpayers.
P. 557.
5. The contention that the graduation of the tax was adjusted with
reasonable approximation to the net earnings of the taxpayers,
based upon a claimed relation between gross sales and net profits,
held not supported by the evidence. P. 558.
6. Convenience of administration does not justify the State in employing this method of taxing gains and ignoring the consequent
inequalities of burden. P. 559.
7. The claim that the tax in its actual operation is not shown to be
unduly burdensome or harmful to any of the complaining taxpayers, or to amount to confiscation of their property, held
irrelevant to the issue of inequality, and contradicted by the
record. P. 561.
8. Parties challenging the validity of a state statute under the
Fourteenth Amendment are not to be denied relief by 1,,ort to
a forecast of possible amelioration of their situation by tlhe state
courts. P. 561.
9. The unrestricted power of *a state legislature to determine the
amount of an otherwise valid tax applies to excises as well as, to
other forms of taxation. P. 562.
10. Clark v. Titusville, 184 U. S. 329; Metropolis Theatre Co. v.
Chicago, 228 U. S. 61, and recent chain store tax cases, distinguished. Pp. 564-566.
7 F. Supp. 438, reversed.

APPEAs from judgments of the three-judge District
Court upholding the constitutionality of the Kentucky
Gross Sales Tax and dismissing the bills in 'foursuits
brought to enjoin its enforcement. The District Court,
on a previous hearing, had dismissed the bills on the

OCTOBER TERM. 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

ground that complainants had an adequate remedy at law,
which judgments were reversed and remanded on appeals
to this Court. 287 U. S. 9.
Mr. Robert S. Marx, with whom Messrs. Frank E.
Wood, John C. Doolan, Harry Kasfir, and James W.
Stites were on the brief, for appellants.
Messrs. S. H. Brown and Francis M. Burke, Assistant
Attorneys General of Kentucky, with whom Mr. Bailey
P. Wootton, Attorney General, and Mr. Leslie W. Morris
were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion'of the Court.
These are four suits heard by a specially constituted
District Court in Kentucky, to enjoin state officers from
enforcing an act of that Commonwealth imposing a gross
sales tax. The plaintiffs are, respectively, a domestic corporation conducting a department store in Louisville, a
partnership- operating a similar store in the same city, a
Delaware corporation having 21 department stores in Kentucky, and an Ohio corporation maintaining 289 grocery
stores within the Commonwealth. Ninetcen individuals,
partnerships and corporations, proprietors of one or more
stores selling various lines of merchandise, intervened as
plaintiffs. Interlocutory injunctions issued, but the district court of three judges dismissed the bills for want of
equity, being of opinion there was an adequate remedy at
law. Upon appeal this court reversed the decrees and remanded the causes.' At final hearing the district court
found the remedy at law inadequate, but sustained the
act and dismissed the bills.2 The present appeals are upon
the merits.
1287 U. S. 9.

'7 F. Supp. 438; 8 F. Supp. 396.

STEWART DRY GOODS CO. v. LEWIS.
550

553

Opinion of the Court.

The statute became alaw March 17, 1930. The title and
certain sections are copied in the margin; other sections
are there summarized.' The tax imposed upon the first
Chapter 149, Acts of 1930, p. 475.
"AN ACT relating to revenue and taxation, imposing an excise or
license tax on retail merchants, as the words ' retail merchants ' are
used in this act; providing for the collection of such tax; the distribution and use of the revenue derived therefrom; the administration of said law, fixing fines and penalties for the violation of this
act; declaring an emergency to exist, and repealing alllaws in conflict with the provisions of this act.
"Be it Enacted by the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky:
"§ 1. The words ' retail merchant,' as used in this act, shall mean
and include every person, firm, association, co-partnership or corporation opening, establishing, operating or maintaining any 'store,' as
defined herein, for the purpose of and selling goods, wares or merchanlise at retail in this State, except those actually engaged in gardening or farming and selling garden or farm products raised by them in
this State. The term 'store,' ag used in this act, shall be construed
to mean and include any store or stores or any mercantile establishment or establishments in this State which are owned, operated, maintained or controlled by the same 'retail merchant,' as defined herein,
either domestic or foreign, in which goods, wares or merchandise of
any kind, are sold at retail. The provisions of this act shall be construed to apply to every 'retail merchant' and 'store,' as defined
herein, which is controlled or held with others by majority stock ownership or ultimately controlled or directed by one management or
association of ultimate management.
" § 2. Every retail merchant, as defined herein, shall pay an annual
license tax for the opening, establishing, operating or maintaining of
any store or stores, as defined herein, determined by computing the
tax on the amount of gross sales as follows:
"One-twentieth of one per cent of the gross sales of Four hundred
thousand ($400,000.00) Dollars or less; two-twentieths of one per
cent on the excess of the gross sales over Four hundred thousand
($400,000.00) Dollars and not exceeding Five hundred thousand
($500,000.00) Dollars; five-twentieths of one per cent on the excess
of the gross sales over Five hundred thousand ($500,000.00) Dollars
and not exceeding Six hundred thousand ($600,000.00) Dollars;

554

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

$400,000 of annual gross sales is 1/20th of one per cent.
The rate increases on each additional $100,000 of sales
between $400,000 and $1,000,000, inclusive, being 17/20ths
of one per cent. in the last bracket. On sales over
$1,000,000 the rate is one per cent. The increased rates
are applicable, however, only in respect of sales in each
successive bracket, and therefore the tax burden attributable to $1,100,000 of sales is not one per cent., but a composite ascertained by adding the total tax for the sales
falling within the various brackets, and dividing by the
dollar-value of all sales. Thus the act requires the merchant to pay in the total .05 per cent. on $400,000 of
sales, .305 per cent. on $1,000,000 of sales and .96 per cent.
on $15,000,000 of sales.
The appellants charge that the statute violates several
sections of the Constitution of Kentucky and several provisions of the Federal Constitution. We shall not stop to
enumerate these, since we must sustain the claim that the
classification made by § 2 denies the appellants the equal
protection of the laws assured by the Fourteenth Amendment.
eight-twentieths of one per cent on the excess of the gross sales over
Six hundred thousand ($600,000.00) Dollars and not exceeding Seven
hundred thousand ($700,000.00) Dollars; eleven-twentieths of one
per cent on the excess of the gross sales over Seven hundred thousand ($700,000.00) Dollars and not exceeding Eight hundred thousand ($800,000.00) Dollars; fourteen-twentieths of one per cent on
the excess of the gross sales over Eight hundred thousand ($800,000.00) Dollars and not exceeding Nine hundred thousand ($900,000.00) Dollars; seventeen-twentieths of one per cent on the excess
of the, gross sales over Nine hundred thousand ($900,000.00) Dollars
and not exceeding One million ($1,000,000f Dollars; one per cent on
the excess of the gross sales over One million ($1,000,000.00) Dollars."
§ 3 provides for annual returns to the state tax commission,
assessment and payment of' the tax. § 4 allows certain credits for
other taxes. § 7 makes it a misdemeanor, punishable by fine or imprisonment,'to fail to file returns and pay the tax.

STEWART DRY GOODS CO. v. LEWIS.
550

555

Opinion of the Court.

The trial court's relevant findings are: The act is essentially a revenue measure. The tax is on gross sales, not on
gross collections from vendees. Sales made by merchants
taxed under any of the brackets of the act are made in colripetition with like sales of the same character of merchandise by those who are taxed under other brackets. 'As a
general proposition increased volume of sales results in increased profits and increased ability to pay the tax. The
rate of profit from retail sales generally varies with the
character of the goods sold. The management of a store
or stores is one of the fundamental factors in determining
whether or not a profit is realized and the amount of profit.
As a general proposition those merchants doing the largest
amount of trade are enabled to secure the highest type of
management.
In the light of these findings, does the act tax sales in an
unequal and arbitrary way, classifying them for the imposition of different rates without reference to any real or
substantial distinction, as appellants insist; or does it impose an excise upon the conduct of retail business, reasonably adjusted in amount with regard to substantial differences in the nature of the privilege exercised, as appellees
contend.
In resolving the issue we are not concluded by the name
or description of the tax as found in the act; our duty is
to Ascertain its nature and effect.' "The substance and
not the shadow determines the validity of the exercise of
the power." ' The act does not impose an income or
profits tax, or a license tax, is not an inspection measure,
or a police regulation. The tax is not confined to a par'Galveston, H. & S. A. Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217, 227;
Choctaw, 0. & G. N. Co. v. Harrison, 235 U. S. 292, 298; Crew
Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 .U.. S- 292, 294; Shaffer v. Carter,
252'U. S 37, 55; Dawson v. Kentucky Distilleries Co., 255 U. S. 288,
292; St. Louis Cotton:Compress Co. v. Arkansas, 260 U. S. 346, 348.
'Postal Tele graph Cable Co . v. Adams, 155 U. S. 688, 698.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
294 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ticular method of merchandising. All retailers, individual
and corporate, selling every description of commodities,
in whatever form their enterprises are conducted, make up
the taxable class. And the excise is laid in respect of the
same activity of each of them-the making of a sale. Although no difference is suggested, so far as, concerns the
transaction which is the occasion of the tax, between the
taxpayer's first sale of the year and his thousandth' different rates may apply to them. The statute operates to
take as the tax a percentage of each dollar due or paid upon
every sale, but increases the percentage if the sale which
is the occasion of the tax succeeds the consummation of
other sales of a specified aggregate amount. As found by
the court below, the act of making a sale, which with all
others made in the taxable year represents a total sales
price of $400,000 or less, results in the imposition of a tax
of 1/20th of one per cent. upon the price, whereas the
making of the same sale by one who has theretofore sold
$400,000 but less than $500,000 worth of goods entails a
tax of 2/20ths of one per cent., or by one whose prior sales
aggregate $900,)000, a tax of 17/20ths of one per cent.
In connection with other provisions of the fundamental
law, this court has had occasion to analyze similar acts.
In Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, a tax on the occupation of an importer was held a tax on imports obnoxious
to the commerce clause. Said the court (p. 444): "It is
impossible to conceal from ourselves, that this is varying
the form, without varying the substance .

.

. All must

perceive, that a tax on the sale of an article, imported only
for sale, is a tax on the article itself." , In Cook v. Pennsylvania, 97 U. S. 566, a tax on the amount of an auctioneer's sales was declared a tax on the goods sold. In
Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S. 292, a state
tax on the business of selling goods in foreign commerce,
measured by gross receipts from goods so sold and shipped,
was pronounced an impost upon exports. The court said

STEWART DRY GOODS CO. v. LEWIS.
550

557

Opinion of the Court.

. nor is it an occupation tax except as it
(p. 297):
is imposed upon the very carrying on of the business of
exporting merchandise. it operates to lay a direct burden upon every transaction in commerce by withholding,
for the use of the State, a part of every dollar received in
such transactions." PanhandleOil Co. v. Knox, 277 U. S.
.218, decides a privilege tax imposed on sellers of gasoline,
fixed at so many cents per gallon sold, is a tax on sales. At
page 222 the court said: "Sale and purchase constitute a
transaction by which the tax is measured and on which the
burden rests. . . . To use the number of gallons sold . . .
as a measure of the privilege tax is in substance and legal
effect to tax the sale." And in Indian Motocycle Co. v.
United States, 283 U. S. 570, a federal tax upon motorcycles "sold . . . by the manufacturer" was held to be
an excise on the sale, and the doctrine of the Panhandle
case was reaffirmed.
Thus understood, the operation of the statute is unjustifiably unequal, whimsical and arbitrary, as much so
as would be a tax on tangible personal property, say cattle,
stepped up in rate on each additional animal owned by the
taxpayer, or a tax on land similarly graduated according
to the number of parcels owned.
The appellees seek to avoid the arbitrary character of
the classification of sales for the purpose of imposing the
levy by the claim that the act, properly construed, lays an
excise upon the privilege of merchandising at retail and
the exaction is made only for this privilege. They insist
the amount of tax is merely measured by the volume of
sales,' and in this view the classification is not arbitrary
if any reasonable relation can be found between the
amount demanded and the privilege enjoyed. They en-

Franchise taxes measured by net income have been sustained, as
.not constituting a tax on income: Educational Films Corp. v. Ward,
282 U. S. 379; compare Mac&tlen Co. v. Massachusetts,279 U. S. 620;
Pacific Co. v. Johnson, 285 U. S. 480.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

deavor to deduce such a relatior from the alleged fact that
a merchant's net income and his consequent ability to pay
increase as the volume of his sales grows. The argument
does not advance the case for the validity of the statute.
Even in this aspect the classification is arbitrary, for the
claimed relation of gross sales-the measure of the taxto net profits fails to justify the discrimination between
taxpayers.
The district court found that "generally speaking" he
who sells more is in receipt of a greater profit and hence

has larger ability to pay, and upon this basis justified the
classification. But it is to be remembered that the act in
question taxes gross sales and not net income. As stated
in United States Glue Co. v. Town of Oak Creek, 247 U. S.
321, 328:
"The difference in effect between a tax measured by
grosA receipts and one measured by net income, recognized
by our decisions, is manifest and substantial, and it affords
a convenient and workable basis of distinction between a
direct and immediate burden up 6 n the business affected
and a charge that is only indirect and incidental.' A ,tax
upon gross receipts affects each transaction in proportion
to its magnitude and irrespective of whether it is profitable
or otherwise. Conceivably it may be sufficient to make
the difference between profit and loss, or to so diminish
the profit as to inipede or discourage the conduct of the
commerce. A tax upon the net profits has not the same
deterrent effect, since it does not arise at all unless a gain
is shown over and above expenses and losses, and the tax
'
cannot be heavy unless the profits are large.&
Argument is not needed, and indeed practical admission
was made at the bar, that the gross sales of a merchant
do not bear a constant relation to his net profits; that net
profits vary from year to year in the sam6 enterprise; that
diverse kinds of merchandise yield differing ratios of profit;

STEWART DRY GOODS CO. v. LEWIS.
550

559

Opinion of the Court.

and that gross and net profits vary with the character of
the business as well as its volume. The trial court made
no finding that the relation between gross sales and net
profits, or inerease of net worth, was constant, or even that
there was a rough uniformity of progression within wide
limits of tolerance. Expert witnesses, using data assembled from various reporting agencies, endeavored to establish that net profits or net worth grow with increased sales.
But their testimony not only indicated great variations
within each class selected for comparison, but also showed
that in some: of the classes representing the greater amount
of sales the net profit or addition to net worth is smaller
than in a class having less aggregate sales. The best that
can be said for this evidence is that, averaging the results
of the concerns making the reports, it is true "generally
speaking," as the court below put it, that profits increase
with sales. The ratio of increase, however, differs in different lines of activity and even as between concerns carrying on the same business, and so many exceptions and
reservations must be made that averages are misleading.
The proofs submitted are insufficient to support the appellees' contention that the graduation of the tax was adjusted with reasonable approximation to the net earnings
of the taxpayers, and that such minor and incidental inequalities as may be found are those always incident in
the application of any valid general rule of classification.
We think the graduated rates imposed .were not intended
to bear any relation to net profits. The argument based
upon the asserted analogy to a tax upon net Income graduated in accordance with the size of the income is unconvincing, for the exaction here demanded is not, of that kind.
We are told that the gross sales tax in question is in
truth a rough and ready method of taxing gains under the
guise of taxing sales; that it is less complicated and more
convenient of administration than an income tax; and

560

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

Kentucky for these reasons is at liberty to choose this form,
and to ignore the consequent inequalities of burden in the
interest of ease of administration. the argument is in
essence that it is difficult to be just, and easy to be arbitrary. If the Commonwealth desires to tax incomes, it
must take the trouble equitably to distribute the burden
Df the impost. Gross inequalities may not be ignored for
the sake of ease of collection.
The assertion that a graduated income tax, like the
graduated sales tax under consideration, ignores the varying rates of return upon investment of those carrying on
similar enterprises, is obviously inaccurate. An income
levy, by its very nature, assures equality of treatment,
because the burden of the exaction varies with increase or
decrease of return on capital invested and with the compprative success or failure of the enterprise. If, as argued,
larger merchants are more efficient, their efficiency will
be correspondingly reflected in their net earnings. If,
as claimed, they are able to procure better management, a
tax upon gains will uniformly reflect the effects of such
management. And the same principle holds true of every
advantage said to inhere in the magnitude of a business.
As we have said, the statute does not purport to levy a
tax on incomes. Plainly it does not in fact do so. A merchant having a gross business of $1,000,000, but a net loss,
must pay a greater tax than one who has a gross of $400,000, and realizes a substantial net profit. The record discloses such a situation. In the year 1930, 24,186 merchants
were subject to the tax. Two of these, whose gross sales
amounted to 8 per cent of the gross sales of all merchants,
would have paid, but for the interlocutory injunction
entered by the court below, more than half of the total
tax due by all those subject to the impost. The payment
by one of them would have been about $124,000, or $18,000
in excess of the total tax paid by the 24,163 merchants who
reported $362,000 of gross-sales, and of whom 24,128 had

STEWART DRY GOODS CO. v. LEWIS.
550

561

Opinion of the Court.

sales totaling less than $400,000; and this taxpayer had in
Kentucky in that year a net income of approximately
$172,000. The figures for 1931 and 1932 exhibit a like disparity. In the latter year the company last mentioned,
though having sales in Kentucky amounting to $11,447,611, would, after payment of the tax, have shown a net
loss of over $9,000. To assert that a law, thus operating,
reasonably equates the exaction to net income is to ignore
the facts.
The appellees say there is no showing that the tax in
its actual operation is unduly burdensome or harmful to
any of the appellants or amounts to confiscation of their
property. The assertion is irrelevant to the issue of inequality, and is, moreover, contradicted by the record. In
the case of one plaintiff whose sales in Kentucky in 1930
were over $14,500,000, in 1931 over $13,400,000 and in 1932
over $11,400,000, the net profits in the same state, after
deducting the sales tax, would have been in 1930, $48,677,
in 1931, $39,358, and in 1932 it would have shown a loss
of $9,023. In the light of this demonstration, it is difficult
to follow the argument that the constitution of Kentucky,
as construed by her courts, is a shield against any tax law
imposing an excise, the effect of which is to extinguish
all profits, when we are told by appellees in the next
breath, that .this very statute has been upheld by the Supreme Court of Kentucky against constitutional attack.7
But if that court had not spoken on the subject, these
appellants are not to be denied relief ufider the Fourteenth
Amendment, by resort to a forecast of possible ameliora.tion of their situation by the state courts.
Ignoring the glaring 'inequalities of burden resulting
from the statute, the appellees tell us that if and when
the load becomes too heavy upon any taxpayer, he may
'See Moore v. State Board of Charities and Corrections, 239 Ky.
729;'40 S. W. (2d) 349.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

-

294 U. S.

with confidence invoke the Fourteenth Amendment."
The position seems to be that different principles govern
various forms of taxation, and that what has been held
with respect to the unrestricted power of a legislature to
determine the amount to be exacted by other forms of
taxation has no application to an excise. We are unaware
of any such distinction in logic and the authorities sanction none. Every taxing law must pass the constitutional
test applied by the courts to the method of imposition, but
the measure of the impost rests in the discretion of the
legislature.
To condemn a levy on the sole ground that it is excessive would be to usurp a power vested not in the courts
but in the. legislature, and to exercise the usurped power
arbitrarily by substituting our conceptions of public policy
for those of the legislative body. In Veazie Bank v.
Fenno, 8 Wall.' 533, a tax of ten per cent. on the notes of
state banks was upheld although it" drove out of existence.
every State bank of circulation within a year or two after
its passage." See Loan Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall.
655, 663, 664. In Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S.41, in
sustaining an excise tax this court said, "if a lawful tax
can be defeated because the power which is manifested by
its imposition may when further exercised be destructive,
it would follow that every lawful tax would become unlawful, and therefore no taxation whatever could be
levied." (P. 60.) See also, Magnano Company v. Hamilton, 292 U. S.40; Fox v. Standard Oil Co. ante, p. 87.
'By Public Act No. 24, Laws of 1933, Vermont imposed a graduated gross sales tax increasing from % of one per cent on sales of from
fifty thousand to one hundred thousand dollars to four per cent. on
sales above two million dollars. A levy of a similar sort applied in
Kentucky, as shown by the facts proved in the present record, would
have deprived many merchants in various tax brackets of all net
income from their stores. We were informed at the argument that
this statute has been held unconstitutional by a court of first instance.

STEWART DRY GOODS CO. v. LEWIS.
550

563

Opinion of the Court.

Once the lawfulness of the method of levying the tax is
affirmed, the judicial function ceases. He deludes himself
by a false hope who supposes that, if this court shall at
some future time conclude the burden of the exaction has
become inordinately oppressive, it can interdict the tax.
The suggestion is made that the ad valorem property
tax heretofore laid on Kentucky merchants bears more
heavily upon -the little dealer than upon his bigger competitor, as the real estate and stock of merchandise of the
former is greater in proportion to the business done than
is the case -with the latter. This fact may indeed be a
proper reason for adjusting the tax burden so as better to
reflect the fruits of the enterprise; but it can afford no
excuse for an arbitrary and unequal imposition as between
persons similarly circumstanced. The record fails to
show that an income tax or a flat tax on sales would not
accomplish the desired end. The adoption of laws of the
latter description by many of the states is a practical
confirmation of the view that they are effective measures.'
The appellees refer to certain decisions of this court,
but none of them rules this case. Those claimed to be
particularly pertinent will be briefly noted.
'Arizona Laws, 1933, c. 18; California Laws, 1933, c. 1020; Georgia, Code 1930, Supplement, Act of 1929, § 993(316); Illinois, Act of
June 28, 1933, Laws, 58th Gen. Assembly, p. 924; Indiana, Burs'Ind.
Stats., 1933, c. 26, § 64-2601; Iowa, c. 82, Laws 45th Gen. Assembly,
Extra'Sess., § 37ff; Kentucky, c. 25, Ky. Acts, Special Sess., 1934;
Michigan, Public Acts, Sess. 1930, No. 167; Mississippi, G. L. 1934,
c. 119; Missouri, Laws, Extra Sess. 1934, p. 155; New York, Cahill's
Consol. Laws, 1933 Supp., c. 61, Art. 17, § 390, p. 144; North Carolina, Sess. 1933, c. 445, p. 768; Ohio, Page's Ohio General Code,
§ 5546-1, p. 859; Oklahoma, First Spec. Sess. 1933, c. 196, p. 456;
Pennsylvania, Act Aug. 19, 1932, Special Sees. 1932, § 3, p. 92; South
Dakota, Laws, 1933, § 184; Utah, Laws, 1933, c. 63 as amended by
c. 20, Second Special Session, 1933; Washington, Laws, 1933, c. 191,
p. 869; West Virginia, Act of May 26, 1933, Extra Session, c. 33, p.
219.

564

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

In Clark v. Tituville, 184 U. S. 329, the tax levied consisted of a flat fee exacted for a license which entitled the
merchant to conduct business for the ensuing year. The
lowest fee was $5.00, for a merchant who during the year
preceding that covered by the license had made sales not
in excess of $1,000. A $10.00 fee applied to one who had
sales between $1,000 and $2,500; a $15.00 fee to one having sales between $2,500 and $5,000; a $25.00 fee to one
whose sales were between $5,000 and $10,000; and so on
to a fee of $100.00 for the seller of $60,000 worth or more.
It is important to note the grounds of attack. One was
that the classes were so defined that a merchant with sales
of $2,499 would pay at one rate and another with sales of
$2,501 would pay at a higher rate; that a merchant whose
sales were $1,001 would pay the same fee as one whose
sales were $2,499. In overruling this objection, the court
relied upon the principle that some injustice is bound to
result from any general rule of classification, and equal
protection demands only reasonable uniformity in dealing
with parties similarly circumstanced. A second objection
was that the percentage of tax to sales was greater in
the lower than in the higher brackets-that is, that a
merchant selling goods for $60,000 or more paid a less
percentage of his sales by way of tax than the smaller
merchant who sold only $1,000 worth of goods. The objection was unavailing, because the tax did not purport
to be fixed upon a percentage of sales. The purpose was
to charge a larger license fee to a larger business. Any tax
measured by a fixed and uniform percentage of gross sales
would impose a heavier burden on the taxpayer having the
greater volume of sales. The excise here involved is not
of that sort, the sum exacted from the merchant doing
the larger business being not only greater in gross amount
but larger in proportion to sales, than that demanded of
his smaller competitor.

STEWART DRY GOODS CO. v. LEWIS.
550

565

Opinion of the Court.

In Metropolis Theatre Co. v. Chicago, zzz u. S. 61, a
licensing ordinance provided for a greater license to be
paid by theatres charging a higher rate for tickets than
was exacted from those charging lower rates. This court
sustained the classification upon the ground that the distinction between the sorts of theatres classified obtains
in every large city of the country; and said (p. 69): "It
will immediately occur upon the most casual reflection
that the distinction the theatre itself makes is not artificial and must have some relation to the success and ultimate profit of its business. In other words, there is a
natural relation between the price of admission and revenue, some advantage certainly that determines the choice.
. . . The reason for it must therefore be substantial, and
if it be so universal in the practice of the business it would
seem not unreasonable if it be adopted as the basis of
governmental action." The case falls within the principle
that even a small difference in the method of conducting
business may be availed of by government in imposing
different taxes. It furnishes no support for a tax upon
the sales of merchants at rates varying per sale or per
dollar with the amount of their respective gross sales.
In several recent cases 1o we sustained the classification
of chain stores for taxation at rates higher than those applicable to single stores, and graduated upward on each store
as the total number of units in one ownership increased.
We found this classification reasonable because of advantages incident to the conduct of multiple stores and obvious differences in chain methods of merchandising as
contrasted with those practised in the operation of one
store. The instant cases present a classification of quite
another kind. The Kentucky statute ignores the form of
"State Board of Tax Commissioners v. Jackson, 283 U. S. 527;
Louis K. Liggett Company v. Lee, 288 U. S. 517; Fox v. Standard

Oil Co., ante, p. 87.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
C wlozo, J., dissenting.

294 U. S.

organization and the method of conducting business. The
taxable class is retail merchants, whether individuals, partnerships or corporations; those who sell in one store or
many; those who offer but one sort of goods and those who
through departments deal in many lines of merchandise.
The law arbitrarily classifies these vendors for the imposition of a varying rate of taxation, solely by reference to
the volume of their transactions, disregarding the absence
of any reasonable relation between the chosen criterion
of classification and the privilege the enjoyment of which
is said to be the subject taxed. It exacts from two persons different amounts for the privilege of doing exactly
similar acts because the one has performed the act oftener
than the other. We hold the act unconstitutional, and
reverse the judgment.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE

CARDOZO,

dissenting.

The prevailing opinion commits the court to a holding
that a tax upon gross sales, if laid upon a graduated basis,
is always and inevitably a denial of the equal protection
of the laws, no matter how slight the gradient or moderate
the tax.
In the view of the majority, the relation between the
taxpayer's capacity to pay and the volume of his business
is at most accidental and occasional. In the view of the
legislature of Kentucky and of its highest court (Moore v.
State Board of Charitiesand Corrections, 239 Ky. 729; 40
S. W. (2d) 349), the relation, far from being accidental or
occasional, has a normal or average validity, attested by
experience and by the judgment of trained observers. The
one view discovers in the attempted classification an act of
arbitrary preference among groups essentially the same.
The other perceives in the division a sincere and rational
endeavor to adapt the burdens of taxation to the teachings
of economics and the demands of social justice.

STEWART DRY GOODS CO. v. LEWIS.
550

567

CAmozo, J., dissenting.

A theory readily intelligible, whether it be sound or unsound, underlies the adoption of the graduated levels.
Economically, the theory is that there is a minimum of
size for business units below which efficiency is less on the
average than expansion would tend to make it; that there
are intermediate levels within which efficiency is subject
on the average to progressive development; and that there
is an ultimate level beyond which efficiency, even if promoted, goes forward more slowly and at a diminishing
ratio. Socially, the theory is that just as in taxes upon income or upon transfers at death, so also in imposts upon
business, the little man, by reason of inferior capacity to
pay, should bear a lighter load of taxes, relatively as well
as absolutely, than is borne by the big one. For the purposes of retail business, the first or less efficient class is
identified by the Kentucky statute with merchants whose
gross sales are $400,000 or less; the six intermediate classes
begin at that point and end with a million dollars; the final
class'is made up of those whose sales are over a million.
For the first class the effective rate is 1/20 of 1 per cent;
for the last it gradually approaches, though it can never
quite reach 1 per cent, this by reason of the fact that the
taxpayer in the higher brackets gets the benefit of the application of the lower rates to those parts of the gross sales
that fall within the lower levels.
For many years Kentucky taxed her retail merchants
upon the basis of property or capital employed within the
state. Tolman, The Gross Sales Tax in Kentucky, 10
Tax Mag. 89, 112. The tax thus apportioned bore heavily
upon the small retailer in comparison with the large one.
This was so for several reasons developed with full statistics by students of taxation. Tolman, 1oc. cit., supra,
citing Government of Kentucky, Report of the Efficiency
Commission of Kentucky, vol. II, p. 232, and Martin &
Patton, Operations of Real Estate Tax in Lexington, Ky.,
(Bureau of Business Research, University of Kentucky,

568

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
CARDozo, J., dissenting.

294 U. S.

MS.) Perhaps the chief reason is the rapidity of turnover
in large scale enterprises, the effect of this mobility being
to reduce the value of the property that must be kept on
hand at tax day as well as at other times. Tables in the
record bear witness in a striking way to the resulting inequality. Upon the basis of a property tax a merchant
with sales of $10,000,000 was found to pay less than onehalf as much tax per dollar of sales as did a merchant
whose sales were $150,000 or less. Cf. Tolman, loc. cit.,
supra; also Statutes of Kentucky, § 4189-2. More concretely, Kroger, one of the petitioners, with gross sales of
many millions, paid a tax upon the old basis of only
137/1000 of one per cent in proportion to its sales in comparison with an average of 934/1000 of one per cent paid
by the 16,535 merchants whose sales were less than $400,000 annually. Tolman, loc. cit.t supra. Kentfilcky is not
chargeable with oppressive discrimination in superseding
such a method of taxation by one more nearly equal in
its burdens.
The choiae of a new method made it necessary for the
legislature to strike a balance of advantage. Tolman, op.
cit., supra,at p. 90; Haig and Shoup, The Sales Tax in the
American States, Columbia University Press (1934), p. 159
et seq. For a time there was a suggestion of a tax on chain
stores only, but a lower federal court had held that method
to be unlawful (38 F. (2d) 652), and the decision of this
court to the contrary (State Board of Tax Commissioners
v. Jackson, May, 1931, 283 V. S. 527), had not yet been
announced. To be sure there was the possibility of a tax
upon gross sales at a flat rate without graduated levels,
but a burden so imposed might be subject to new objections. In the view of serious students of the problem, a flat
tax upon gross sales is not always shifted to the consumer.
It is often absorbed more or less by the seller, for a time,
even if not permanently, to prevent the falling off of sales.

STEWART DRY GOODS CO. v. LEWIS.
550

569

CARDOzo, J., dissenting.

National Industrial Conference Board, General Sales or
Turnover Taxation (1929), pp. 8, 9, et seq.; Buehler, Recent Developments of the General Sales Tax, 36 Journal
of Pol. Econ. 83, 92, 93. Such at least is the teaching of a
school of economists, though the subject is one as to which
the learned are divided.' At times absorption is accomplished by a reduction of the price even when in form the
amount of the tax has been added to the bill. Haig &
Shoup, op. cit., supra, pp. 29, 31 et seq.; Buehler, General
Sales Taxation (1932), pp. 194, 195. An impressive body
of opinion is back of the view that in so far as the tax is
not passed to the consumer the flat rate bears more heavily
on the small business than on the large one. This tendency
is corrected when the tax is imposed on a graduated basis.
One of the consequences of such a tax is to make the shifting of the burden easier for those who pay the lower rates
than for those who pay the higher ones. For that reason
the flat rate is thought to be less efficient than the graded
one as an instrument of social justice. The large dealer, it
is said, occupies, both absolutely and relatively, a position
of economic superiority by reason of the volume of his
business. In that view, to make his tax heavier, both absolutely and relatively, is not arbitrary discrimination, but
an attempt to proportion the payment to capacity to pay
and thus to arrive in the end at a more genuine equality.
By the statute in controversy the Commonwealth of Kentucky is aligned with that position. It is not the function
of a court to make itself the arbiter between competing
economic theories professed by honest men on grounds not
wholly frivolous. Otis v. Parker, 187 U. S. 606, 609. Responsibility for economic wisdom has been laid upon the
legislature. There is finality in its choice, even though wis'The problem is discussed by

STONE, J.,

with a reference to many

treatises on finance, in his dissenting opinion in Indian Motocycle
Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 570, 581.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
CARDoZ, J., dissenting.

294 U. S.

dor may be lacking, unless choice can be found to be so
void of rationality as to be the expression of a whim rather
than an exercise of judgment.
The question then is whether there is rationality in the
belief that capacity to pay increases, by and large, with
an increase of receipts. Certain it is that merchants have
faith in such a correspondence and act upon that faith. A
witness for the petitioners tells us: "The policy prevailing' throughout the United States, so far as retail merchandising department stores are concerned, is to get as
large a volume as possible with a small percentage of
profit, allowing the volume to produce the net profit." If
experience did not teach that economic advantage goes
along with larger sales, there would be an end to the hot
pursuit for wide and wider markets. Official statistics in
Kentucky confirm the impulse of her merchants, an impulse shared with merchants everywhere. Tables prepared by a witness on the basis of returns to the State Tax
Commission show that persons and corporations whose
sales were over $1,000,000 had net earnings between
$125,000 and $400,000; those with sales between $600,000
and $800,000 had net earnings of $35,000 to $60,000; those
with sales between $200,000 and $450,000 had net earnings of $5,000 to $34,000, with the exception of one concern which was conducted at a loss; and those with smaller
sales had net earnings ranging from $10,000 to nothing.
This does not mean that an increase of gross sales in one
business brought the same increase of net earnings as an
increase of gross sales in every other business. It does
not mean that larger sales brought net earnings in a
mounting ratio, relatively as well as absolutely. It does
mean, however, that on the whole, net earnings in a business were higher when sales were large than they were
in the same business when sales were comparatively small.
In brief there is a relation of correspondence between
capacity to pay and the amount of business done. Ex-

STEWART DRY GOODS CO. v. LEWIS.
550

571

CARwozo, J., dissenting.

ceptions, of course, there are. The law builds upon the
probable, and shapes the measure of the tax accordingly.
It is no answer to say that as between one business and
another, or even as between one person and another engaged in the same business, there will be varying rates of
return upon the amount of the investment. This is true
also of a tax on net income. Net earnings of $100,000 may
represent for one.man a return on a capital of $2,000,000
and for another a return on a capital of double that
amount, yet the tax will be the same for each. So also it
is no answer to say that in the administration of this statute two merchants whose sales are very large are subject
to as heavy a tax as many thousands of merchants whose
sales are in the lowest brackets. One might as well compare the federal income tax of a banker whose net earnings are in the millions with that of a thousand clerks who
by reason of exemptions are to pay no tax whatever. The
comparison proves nothing unless it be the obvious fact
that taxpayers are few when the count is at the highest
level. Once more, it is no answer to say that though capacity to pay is enlarged on the average by an increase of
the sales, there are times when sales increase and yet the
outcome is a loss. No loss has been suffered by any of the
petitioners, unless it be in one instance as the result of
inefficiency, and so the findings show. In so far as the
statute fails to make allowance for the contingency of loss,
it is certainly not arbitrary in its operation as to those
realizing a gain, and they will not be heard to complain
that it is arbitrary as to others. Hatch v. Reardon, 204
U. S.152, 160; Keeney v. New York, 222 U. S.525, 536;
Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U. S.610, 621; Oliver Iron Co.
v. Lord, 262 U. S. 172, 180. But the result will not be
changed if their standing be assumed. The law has regard
in these matters, not to invariable sequences, but to probabilities and tendencies. " The problems of government
are practical ones and may justify, if they do not require,

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
CA wozo, J., dissenting.

294 U. S.

rough accommodations-illogical, it may be, and unscientific." Metropolis TheatreCo. v. Chicago, 228 U. S. 61, 69.
"The fact that a better taxing system might be conceived
does not render the law invalid." Solomon v. State Tax
Comm'n, 278 U. S. 484, 491. At the very least, an increase
of gross sales carries with it an increase of opportunity for
profit, which supplies a rational basis for division into
classes, at all events when coupled with evidence of a
high degree of probability that the opportunity will be
fruitful.
Many a pertinent analogy reinforces this conclusion.
The tax upon a long chain of stores is often at a higher
rate than the tax upon a short one (State Board of Tax
Commissionersv. Jackson, supra), yet it may happen that
in lean years, still more in financial crises, the greater the
number of stores, the less the actual gain. Fox v. Standard Oil Co., ante, p. 87. The presence of such a possibility
does not make the graduation wrongful. The theatre
charging a high price for tickets of admission may be
taxed at a higher rate than one whose admission price is
low. A showing that the revenue of the high priced theatres is less than that of some of the others will not cause
the tax to fail. Metropolis Theatre Co. v. Chicago, supra.
McKenna, J., sagely pointed out in that case that the
choice between high and low prices had been made by the
theatre itself and made in response to its own conception
of advantage. A conception good enough for the taxpayer
was thought to be good enough for the government. So
here, under the challenged statute. Larger and larger
sales are sought for by business and sought for with avidity. They are not the products of whim and fancy. They
represent a conception of probabilities and tendencies confirmed by long experience. The conception is no more
arbitrary in the brain of a government official than it is in
the mind of a company director.

STEWART DRY GOODS CO. v. LEWIS.
550

573

C A'ozo, J., dissenting.

The striving to expand being so general, there is no occasion for surprise at the discovery of a relation between
profit and expansion when expansion is kept within the
bounds of moderation. In tracing that connection it will
not do to compare the profits of one line of business with
those of a different one viewed in isolation. Many factors
enter to make one kind of enterprise more gainful than
another. Cf. Tolman, op. cit., supra, at p. 112. Moreover, the rule is undoubted that different occupations may
be taxed in different ways. Bell's Gap R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232, 237; Stebbins v. Riley, 268 U. S. 137,
142; Ohio Oil Co. v. Conway, 281 U. S. 146, 159; Union
Bank v. Phelps, 288 U. S. 181. Comparison must be between large and small enterprises in the same line of business, or in many lines of business viewed in combination.
This comparison being made, large sales will be found in
the main to have the advantage over small ones. There
are those who hold that growth may be so large as to make
the business clumsy and inefficient, destroying unity of
management, but enterprises swollen to that extent are
not the common run that fix the patterns of a statute. It
is significant that graduation stops accordiig to the plan
of the Kentucky statute before size becomes inordinate.
In what has been written the effort has been to show
that enhancement of the gross sales has a tendency in
respect of the average business enterprise to increase
capacity to pay by making the gains larger than they
would be if sales were small. This, if it has been made out,
will serve without more to sustain the separation into
classes that is now under attack. Magoun v. Illinois Trist
& Savings Bank, 170 U. S. 283, 293, 296; Knowlton v.
Moore, 178 U. S. 41, 54. But statistics are not lacking to
give color to a broader claim. The studies of the Harvard
Bureau of Business Research show (Bulletins 74, 78, 83
and 85) that despite occasional aberrations gross sales have

574

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
CARnozo, J., dissenting.

294 U. S.

a direct bearing on the ratio of net gain to sales and on
the ratio of net gain to net worth. 2 In brief there is not
only an increment of profit expressed irn terms of dollars,
but an increment also when the profit is expressed as a
percentage. How far the teachings of these tables are to
be credited as accurate, it is not for us to say. Williams
v. Mayor, 289 U. S. 36, 42; O'Gorman & Young v. Hartford Fire Insurance Co., 282 U. S. 251, 257. They are confirmed by economists of standing who testified for the
state. Opposed are other scholars, also men of high repute, who have studied the results of large scale enterprises and small ones, and on the basis of that study advance a different doctrine. They find that the high percentages of profit are more likely to be earned when capital
'Bulletin 74 deals with the operations of department stores for
1927. One set of tables includes stores whose sales are in excess of
a million dollars. They are divided into four classes (one million to
two million; two million to four million; four million to ten million;
ten million and over). Referring to these classes, the report says
(p. 10): "While noticeable differences appeared in net profit for
stores grouped according to volume of sales, these differences were
even greater in the case of total net gain both as a percentage of net
sales and as a percentage of net worth. In each instance these figures varied directly with the volume of sales, and a distinctly more
favorable showing was made by the larger firms." Another set of
tables includes stores whose sales were under a million dollars.
Among these the most favorable net profit showing was that of the
group with volume of sales between one quarter and one half million. Between half a million and a million, the ratio of increase
declined. Even there, however, the showing was more favorable than
for stores under a quarter of a million, where the average was one
of loss. Bulletins 78, 83 and 85 state the operations for later years
with results not greatly different. Even in years of loss, the percentage of loss had in the main a tendency to be lower as the volume of
the sales increased. "It is quite clear that the larger stores operated on a distinctly more satisfactory basis than the smaller stores,
and that success as measured by earnings varies directly with size."
Bulletin 85, p. 8.

STEWART DRY GOODS CO. v. LEWIS.
550

575

C mozo, J., dissenting.

and sales are moderate. Epstein, Industrial Profits in the
United States, pp. 45, 46, 131, 132. On the other hand,
they are not hostile to the doctrine that on the average
the net earnings of a business increase absolutely, though
not proportionately, as the sales increase in volume.'
Even as to percentages, the lawmakers of Kentucky were
at liberty to reach their own conclusion in the face of these
conflicting judgments pronounced by men of learning. If
their conclusion is not arbitrary, it is not for us to set
them right.
The studies back of these statistics are instructive not
merely as to results but also as to causes. Harvard Bureau'of Business Research, Bulletin 85, p. 9. Sales on a
large scale are accompanied, it seems, by differences of.
method as well as differences of quantity. Some of the
attendant advantages are matters of common knowledge.
The big shops having ample capital can get the best locations. This is a form of advertising, productive of good
will. The big shops can practise economies impossible
for small ones. In particular they can make their purchases in bulk and hence at cheaper prices. The big shops
acquire a prestige that makes customers eager to buy of
them. Here and there they can even charge a little more
than others, at least for high priced goods, or goods not
wholly standardized, and the buyer will ignore the difference. If they happen to be department stores, they stimulate a customer to buy at one shop without the bother of
going elsewhere. If they happen to be chain stores, they
have other methods of attraction. Even management
tends to be more efficient unless the business becomes
unwieldy by reason of its size. Bulletin 85, supra. The
president of the Kroger Company tells us: "Kroger trains
'The prevailing opinion in effect concedes "that averaging the
results of the concerns making the reports it is true ' generally speaking,' as the court below put it, that profits increase with sales."

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
CARnozo, J., dissenting.

294 U. S.

its men, having regular training schools and diplomas."
As already pointed out, the scheme of the Kentucky
statute puts a stop to graduation before size becomes immoderate. From all this it comes about that many avenues of profit closed to the little dealer are open to his
big competitor.
The framers of a system of taxation may properly give
heed to convenience of administration, and in the search
for that good may content themselves with rough and
ready compromises. Elaborate machinery, designed to
bring about a perfect equilibrium between benefit and burden, may at times defeat its aim through its own elaboration. A crippling result of the decision just announced
will be to restrict the choice of means within bounds unreasonably narrow. Hereafter in the taxation of business
a legislature will be confined, it seems, to an income or
profit tax if it wishes to establish a graduated system proportioning burden to capacity. But profits themselves are
not susceptible of ascertainment with certainty and precision except as the result of inquiries too minute to be
practicable. The returns of the taxpayer call for an exercise of judgment as well as for a transcript of the figures on
his books. They are subject to possible inaccuracies,
almost without number. Salaries of superintendence, figuring as expenses, may have been swollen inordinately;
appraisals of plant, of merchandise, of patents, of what not,
may be erroneous or even fraudulent. In the words of a
student of the problem, "statements of profits are affected
both by accounting methods and by the optimistic or pessimistic light in which the future is viewed at the time when
the accounts are made up." Epstein, op. cit., supra, p. 5.
These difficulties and dangers bear witness to the misfortune of forcing methods of taxation within a Procrustean
formula. If the state discerns in business operations uniformities and averages that seem to point the way to a
system easier to administer than one based upon a report

STEWART DRY GOODS CO. v. LEWIS.
550

4CARozo,

577

J., dissenting.

of profits, and yet likely in the long run to work out approximate equality, it ought not to be denied the power
to frame its laws accordingly.
. For answer to all this the thrust will not avail
that "it
is difficult to be just and easy to be arbitrary." The derogatory epithet assumes the point to be decided. There
is nothing arbitrary in rescuing a vast body of taxpayers
from the labor and expense of preparing elaborate reports,
at best approximately accurate. There is nothing arbitrary in rescuing a government from the labor and expense
of setting up the huge and unwieldly machinery of an
income tax department with a swarm of investigators and
accountants and legal and financial experts. To frame a
system of taxation in avoidance of evils such as these is
no act of sheer oppression, no abandonment of reason, no
exercise of the general will in a perverse or vengeful spirit.
Far from being these or any of them, it is a pursuit of legitimate ends by methods honestly conceived and rationally
chosen. More will not be asked by those who have learned
from experience and history that government is at best a
makeshift, that the attainment of one good may involve
the sacrifice of others, and that compromise will be inevitable until the coming of Utopia.
The argument is made that the principle of graduation,
once it has gained a lodgment, may be extended indefinitely, with the result that in some other statute the rate
for the upper levels, instead of being confined as it is here
to something less than one per cent, may be ten per cent
or twenty, thus wiping out profits when business is done
on a large scale. A sufficient answer may well be that
no such act is now before us; but if this answer be inadequate, another is at hand. The more effective answer is
that under the law of Kentucky the danger is illusory.
There is no need to consider in respect of an excise upon
sales whether the doctrine of Magnano Co. v. Hamilton,
292 U. S. 40, and Fox v. Standard Oil Co., supra,could be

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
CARDOZO, J., dissenting.

294 U. S.

invoked successfully to uphold a destructive measure of
taxation if the standard of validity were to be looked for
in the Fourteenth Amendment and not in any other law.
The significance of whatever distinctions there may be
will be weighed when the event arises. For the present it
is enough to say that, under the constitution of Kentucky
as interpreted by repeated decisions of her highest court,
no tax law in the nature of an excise will be upheld if its
effect is so drastic as to extinguish profits altogether.
Fiscal Court of Owen County v. Cox Co., 132 Ky. 738; 117
S. W. 296; Louisville v. Pooley, 136 Ky. 286; 124 S. W.
315; Sperry & Hutchinson v. Owensboro, 151 Ky. 389;
151 S. W. 932. Because of those decisions we refused only
recently to sustain a statute of Kentucky imposing a prohibitory tax upon the sale of oleomargarine (Glenn v.
Field Packing Co., 290 U. S. 177, affirming 5 F. Supp. 4),
though in Magnano Co. v. Hamilton, supra, a like tax,
adopted by the state of Washington, was held to be consistent with the constitution of the nation. The relevant
provisions of the Kentucky constitution and of the explanatory judgments of her courts are written by implication into the Kentucky tax act as if put there in so many
words. The act is to be interpreted as if it said: " The
tax hereby imposed is not to be collected if the result will
be to wipe out the profits of a business conducted with
ordinary efficiency, or to reduce the profits to a level unreasonably low." Such an extinguishment of profits is
not the outcome of the tax when the act is applied to the
business of these petitioners, and so the court below has
found.' Such can never be the outcome either under this
'A loss of $9,023 would have been suffered by one of the petitioners if the tax had been paid in 1932, but the finding is that for that
year the business was conducted without reasonable skill, and that
with a change of the methods of management the loss was turned

into a profit. At most the operations of that year might call under
the Kentucky decisions for a modification of the judgment. The
petitioners seek an injunction that will annul the statute altogether.

STEWART DRY GOODS C0.
550

v. LEWIS.

579

•CARiOzo, J., dissenting.

act or any other as long as the constitution of Kentucky
continues what it is today.
The case has thus far been considered almost wholly
without reference to the precedents. When these are examined, the conclusion is even clearer. To dwell upon the
chain store decisions is needless. Board of Tax Commissioners v. Jackson, supra;Fox v. Standard Oil Co., supra;
Liggett Co. v. Lee, 288 U. S. 517. They are too recent to
be forgotten. Classification in those cases ran athwart the
lines of profit, yet it was none the less sustained. There
is no magic, however, in the catchword of a " chain." In
cases not so recent, other forms of business enterprise have
been subjected to graduated taxes on the basis of size alone
without reference to profits. Thus, in Clark v. Titusville,
184 U. S. 329, a license tax was laid upon wholesale and
retail merchants, the rate for each class varying progressively with the amount of the gross sales. The court upheld the classification as one reasonably related to capacity
to pay. In Metropolis Theatre Co. v. Chicago, supra,
already summarized in this opinion, a tax upon theatres
proportioned to the cost of tickets was upheld against the
contention of the taxpayer that the price of tickets was
unrelated to the profits of the venture. In Pacific American Fisheriesv. Alaska, 269 U. S. 269, a tax had been laid
on salmon canneries at graduated levels, the percentage of
the tax increasing with the number of cases packed. It
was pressed that the tax discriminated against large canneries in favor of small ones. The argument was dismissed
with the remark that "classification of taxes by the
amount of the corpus taxed has been sustained in various
connections heretofore." Cf. Maine v. Grand Trunk Ry.
Co., 142 U. S. 217, 228; Dow v. Beidelman, 125 U. S. 680,
691; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. Co. v. Iowa, 94
U. S. 155, 164; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. Conley, 230
U. S. 513, 522; Spreckels Sugar Refining Co. v. McClain,
192 U. S. 397; Hope Gas Co. v. Hall, 274 U. S. 284; Citi-

-OCTOBER TERM, 1934.

580

Syllabus.

294 U. S.

zens' Telephone Co. v. Fuller, 229 U. S. 322; Heisler v.
Thomas Colliery Co., 260 U. S. 245; Brown-FormanCo. v.
Kentucky, 217 U. S. 563; Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v.
Adams, 155 U. S. 688. See also Louisville Gas Co. v. Coleman, 277 U. S. 32, 43, 44, which brings the precedents together. Other cases could be added.
In fine, there may be classification for the purpose of
taxation according to the nature of the business. There
may be classification according to size and the power and
opportunity of which size is an exponent. Such has been
the teaching of the lawbooks, at least until today.
I am authorized to state that MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS and
MR. JUSTICE

STONE

join in this opinion.

METROPOLITAN CASUALTY INSURANCE CO. v.
BROWNELL, RECEIVER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 20.

Argued October 15, 1934.-Decided March 18, 1935.

1. A discrimination in the state law between foreign and domestic
casualty insurance corporations, whereby the former are forbidden
to limit by agreement to less than three years the time within
which suit may be brought against them on their c9 ntracts,
whereas the latter are free to stipulate for any limitation that is
reasonable, is not necessarily a denial of the equal protection of
the laws but may be justified by differences between the two
classes of corporations with respect to the security and collection
of claims against them. Pp. 583-585.
2. The burden of establishing the unconstitutionality of a statute
rests on him who assails it, and courts may not declare a legislative discrimination invalid unless, in the light of facts made
known.or generally assumed, it is of such a character as to preclude the assumption that the classification rests upon some
rational basis within the knowledge and experience of the
legislators. Pp. 584-586.

