DOHERTY & CO. v. GOODMAN.
Statement of the Case.

613

would make reasonable changes when directed by the
municipality.
As construed below, the challenged statute authorizes
an arbitrary and unreasonable order by the State Highway Commission, whose enforcement would deprive appellant of rights guaranteed by the Federal Constitution.
The questioned judgment must be reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE and MR. JUSTICE CARDozo
the result.

concur in

HENRY L. DOHERTY & CO. v. GOODMAN.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF IOWA.

No. 469. Argued-February 11, 1935.-Decided April 1, 1935.
A statute of Iowa (Code, § 11079) provides that, where an office is
maintained for the transaction of any business in a county other
than that in which the principal resides, service of process in any
action arising out of the conduct of such office may be made on
any agent or clerk there employed. The statute was construed as
authorizing a personal judgment against a nonresident individual
who, though never personally within the State, established an office
within the State for dealing in securities, a business subjected to
special regulation by the State, the service of process having been
made upon one who was manager of the office both at the time
the contract out of which the suit arose was executed and at the
time of the service., Held, as so applied, the statute does not
violate any right guaranteed by the Federal Constitution. Art. IV,
§ 2; Fourteenth Amendment, § 1. P. 628.
218 Iowa 529; 255 N. W. 667, affirmed.

from the affirmance of a judgment entered after
the overruling of a special plea to the jurisdiction, in an
action for damages arising from a sale of stock.
APPEAL

624

OCTOBER TERM,. 1934.
Counsel for Appellee.

294 U. S.

Mr. Fred W. Lehmann, Jr., for appellant.
No sovereign can by its own act give itself jurisdiction
beyond its own borders. Flexner v. Farson, 248 U. S.
289; Story, Conflict of Laws, par. 539; Pennoyer v. Neff,
95 U. S. 714; Cabanne v. Graf, 87 Minn. 510; Raher v.
Raher, 150 Iowa 511.
Cases wherein the defendant is a corporation are not
relevant. The corporation is not a citizen and does not
have the rights of a citizen. The corporation has no actual presence. Its presence can as well be presumed to
attend its humblest employee as its highest official.
Neither presumption will violate the rights of any citizen.
Neither presumption will deny due process of law if reasonable effort is made to see that the process eventually
gets to the legal department. The corporation has no
right to do anything in any State save the State where it
incorporated. Its exercising any function in any other
State can properly be held to be a consent, to the extent
of the function exercised, at least, to be subject to the
jurisdiction of the State.
We omit also cases which deal with defendants who
were present within the State when the cause of action
arose and later left the State. Hess v. Pawloski, 274 U. S.
352; McDonald v. Mabee, 243 U. S. 90; Michigan Trust
Co. v. Ferry, 228 U. S. 346.
In the cases which involve individual defendants who
never were within the State, we find an occasional effort
to assert jurisdiction; all of which were thwarted by the
courts. Brooks v. Dun, 51 Fed. 138; Ralya Market Co. v.
Armour & Co., 102 Fed. 530; Mordock v. Kirby, 118 Fed.
180; New York Life Ins. Co. v. Dunlevy, 241 U. S. 518;
Flexner v. Farson, 248 U. S. 289.
Mr. Joseph I. Brody, with whom Messrs. Clyde B.
Charlton and George E. Brammer were on the brief, for
appellee.

DOHERTY & CO. v. GOODMAN.
623

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In 1926 Henry L. Doherty, citizen of New York, trading
as Henry L. Doherty & Company, established an office
at Des Moines, Polk County, Iowa, and there through
agents carried on the business of selling corporate securities throughout the State. E. A. King, designated as
District Manager, took charge of this office in January,
1929, and continued to direct its affairs during the time
here important. Under him were clerks and 'stock sales-'
men, paid directly from New York.
A salesman operating from the Des Moines office, Sept.
tember 1, 1929, negotiated in that city a sale of stock
to appellee Goodman, and out of this the present controversy arose. The only power or authority expressly conferred upon King by Doherty was to sell securities and
supervise other employees; he never in terms consented
that service of process upon this agent should constitute
service upon himself.
Sec. 11079, Iowa Code 1927, also 1931, in effect since
1851, provides:
"When a corporation, company, or individual has, for
the transaction of any business, an office or agency in any
county other than that in which the principal resides,
service may-be made on any agent or clerk employed in
such office or agency, in all actions growing out of or connected with the business of that office or agency."
July 31, 1931, appellee Goodman commenced an action
against Doherty in the District Court, Polk County,
wherein he sought only a personal .judgment for damages
arising out of the sale contract of September 1, 1929.
The usual summons or notice commanding the defendant
to appear was served upon District Manager King.
Doherty appeared specially. He challenged the jurisdiction of the court; claimed he had not been. within the
State; King had no authority to accept service of process

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

in his behalf; the alleged service was ineffective; and to
hold otherwise would deprive him of rights guaranteed
by the Federal Constitution. The District Court, relying
upon Code § 11079, overruled the special plea and held
the service adequate. Doherty made no further appearance. Judgment against him was affirmed by the Supreme Court.
The cause is here by appeal. Appellant insists that if
construed as applicable to him, a citizen of another State
never in Iowa, in the circumstances disclosed by the record, § 11079 offends the Federal Constitution, § 2, Art. 4,
and § 1, 14th Amendment.
The Supreme Court affirmed the action of the trial
court upon authority of Davidson v. H. L. Doherty & Co.,
(1932) 214 Iowa 739; 241 N. W. 700. The opinion in
that cause construed § 11079 and, among other things,
said:
"By its terms, and under our holding, the statute is
applicable to residents of 'any other county' than that
in which the principal resides, whether such county be
situated in Iowa or in some other state. In other words,
the statute does apply to non-residents of Iowa who come
within its terms and provisions, as well as to residents.
Our construction of the statute has stood since 1887. ...
We adhere to our former holdings that the statute is
applicable to individual non-residents who come within
its express terms and provisions. ...
"The statute in question does not in any manner
abridge the- privileges or immunities of citizens of the
several states. It treats residents of Iowa exactly as it
treats residents of all other states. The citizens of each
state of the United States are, under this statute, entitled
to all the privileges and immunities accorded citizens of
this state.
"The justice of such a statute is obvious. It places no
greater or different burden upon the non-resident than

DOHERTY & CO. v. GOODMAN.
623

Opinion of the Court.

upon the resident of this state. . . . A non-resident who
gets all the benefit of the protection of the laws of this
state with regard to the office or agency and the business
so transacted ought to be amenable to the laws of the
state as to transactions growing out of such business upon
the same basis and conditions as govern residents of this
state. . . . It makes no hostile discrimination against
non-residents, but tends to put them on the same footing
as residents ...
"'Four things are, under this statute, essential to the
validity of such service. 1. The defendant must have an
office or agency in the county. 2. It must be a county
other than that in which he resides. 3. The action must
grow out of or be connected with the business of that
office or agency. 4. The agent or clerk upon whom service
is made must be employed in such office or agency."
"When a non-resident defendant establishes an office
or agency for the transaction of business in any county
in this state under this statute, he thereby voluntarily
appoints his own agent, in charge of said office or agency,
as one upon whom substituted service in actions in personam, growing out of that office or agency, may be
made. . . . Under our statute, the implied consent to be
sued in this state is limited to proceedings growing out of
the business transacted through the office or agency in
this state. It is required that the agent shall actually
receive a copy of the notice of suit and that it shall be
read to him. . . The action must grow out of the business of that very agency. Ample time is given the defendant to appear and defend; there is not only 'reasonable
probability' but practical moral certainty that the defendant will receive actual notice of the pendency of the
action."
Iowa treats the business of dealing in corporate securities as exceptional- and subjects it to special regulation.
Laws 1913, c. 137; Laws 1921, c. 189; Laws 1929, c. 10,
approved Mar. 19, 1929. The last cited Act requires reg-

628

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

istration and written consent for service of process upon
the Secretary of State. See Merrick v. Halsey & Co., 242
U. S. 568. Doherty voluntarily established an office in
Iowa and there carried on this business. Considering this
fact, and accepting the construction given to § 11079, we
think to apply it as here proposed will not deprive him
of any right guaranteed by the Federal Constitution.
Flexner v. Farson,248 U. S.289, much relied upon, does
not sustain appellant's position. There the service was
made upon one not then agent fo- the defendants; here
the situation is different. King was manager of the appellant's office when the sale contract was made; also
when process was served upon him. Moreover, under the
laws of Iowa, neither her citizens nor non-residents could
freely engage in the business of selling securities.
The power of the States to impose terms upon nonresidents, as to activities within their borders, recently
has been much discussed. Hess v. Pawloski, 274 U. S.352;
Wuchter v. Pizzutti, 276 U . S. 13; Young v. Masci, 289
U. S.253. Under these opinions it is established doctrine
that -a State may rightly direct that non-residents who
operate automobiles on her highways shall be deemed to
have appointed the Secretary of State as agent to accept
service of process, provided there is some "provision making it reasonably probable that notice of the service on the
Secretary will be communicated to the non-resident defendant who is sued."
So far as it affects, appellant, the questioned statute
goes no farther than the principle approved by those
opinions permits. Only rights claimed upon the present
record are determined. The limitations of § 11079 under
different circumstances we do not consider.
Affirmed.

