464

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

294 U.S.

PARAMOUNT PUBLIX CORP. v. AMERICAN TRIERGON CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE.

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 254.

Argued February 4, 5, 1935.-Decided March 4, 1935.

1. The application of an old process to a new and closely analogous
subject matter, plainly indicated by the prior art as an appropriate subject of the process, is not invention. P. 473.
2. Evidence of prompt acceptance and great utility in industry of
a patented methd adds little weight to the claim of invention as
opposed to mere mechanical skill, where the need satisfied was not
an old and recognized one, but arose only after the patent was
applied for and as the result of a public demand for an advance
of the art made possible by mechanisms subsequently developed
and not covered by the patent. P. 474.
3. A defendant sued for patent infringement is not estopped to set
up the defense of no invention by reason of having himself
applied, unsuccessfully, for a patent covering the same claims.
P. 476.
4. Patent No. 1,825,598, issued September 29, 1931, to Vogt et al.
(Claims 5-9, inclusive, and Claim 11) for "a process for producing a combined sound and picture positive film, for talking
moving pictures," etc., held invalid for anticipation and want of
invention.
The process claimed is for combining sound and picture records
on a single film and comprises three steps: first, the simultaneous
photographing of a picture record and a record of the accompanying sound, each on a separate negative; second, the separate
development of the two negatives in a manner appropriate to
each; and third, the printing, either simultaneously or successively, from the two negatives of the sound record and the picture record side by side on a single positive film. It does not
embrace either a method or a device for recording or for reproducing sound, or a method of synchronizing the two records, or
the use of a single film in the reproduction of combined sound
and picture records, or any method or device for printing the
positive record from the two separate negatives. Every step in
it is an application of the art of photography: simultaneous
exposure of the negatives, their separate development, and print-

PARAMOUNT CORP. v. TRI-ERGON CORP. 465
464

Opinion of the Court.

ing from them a single positive film. It is as applicable to any
other form of photographic record as to a photographic sound
record-as effective in the production of the one as the other;
and its importance to the sound picture industry arises only from
the fact that the single film, bearing the two records, for which
no patent is claimed, is of great utility in that industry.
71 F. (2d) 153, reversed.

CERTIORAi; 293 U. S. 587, to review a decree sustaining a patent in a suit for infringement. For the decision
of the District Court, contra, see 4 F. Supp. 462 The
patent was applied for March 29, 1922.
Mr. William D. Mitchell, with whom Messrs. Charles
Neave and Thomas G. Haight were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Messrs. Theodore S. Kenyon and George Whartc.t
Pepper, with whom Messrs. Thomas D. Thacher and
S. Mortimer Ward, Jr., were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE

STONE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In this case certiorari was granted to review a decree of
the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, 71 F. (2d)
153, which held valid and infringed the process patent of
Vogt and others, No. 1,825,598, of September 29, 1931,
"for producing combined sound aid picture films." It
reversed the district court, which had held the patent invalid for anticipation and want of invention. 4 F. Supp.
462. The several claims involved relate to a method of
producing a single photographic film by printing upon it a
picture record and a sound record from separately exposed
and developed negatives. The positive film thus produced is useful and extensively used in reproducing sound
and picture records in the exhibition of "talking moving
pictures."

466

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

The respondent, which was the plaintiff below, is a patent holding company, and acquired the patent by assignment. The petitioner, which was the .defendant below, is
a producer of motion pictures, and the defense of the
present suit has been conducted on its behalf by the
Electrical Research Products, Inc., a subsidiary of the
Western Electric Company.
In order that the precise nature of the claims may be
understood, it will be necessary first to describe briefly the
procedure and the mechanisms employed in recording and
reproducing talking motion pictures, although neither is
embraced in the claims of the patent. Several methods
have been devised for recording sound and reproducing it
in connection with the exhibition of motion pictures. A
familiar one is the disc system, by which the sound vibrations are mechanically recorded upon and reproduced from
discs by a stylus, which receives the sound vibrations for
recording and transmits them from the disc to a loud
speaker in reproducing-the sound.
Another method, important here, is the photographic
film system, in which the sound vibrations are recorded
upon a photographic record. In the typical procedure,
used by the petitioner, the sound waves to be recorded are
received by a microphone so devised as to produce variable
electric currents whose variations correspond to the variations in the sound waves received. The electric currents
thus produced are amplified and transmitted to two metal
threads, arranged side by side so. as to form a narrow slit
about 1/1000 of an inch in width, called a light valve.
The current produces vibration of the metal threads with
consequent variation of the light passing through the
valve exactly corresponding to the sound vibrations to be
recorded. In recording sound, a moving sensitized photographic film is exposed to a beam of light passed through
the vibrating light valve which is.activated by the electric
currents varying according to the sound vibrations. The

PARAMOUNT CORP. v.-TRI-ERGON CORP. 467
464

Opinion of the Court.

exposed film is then developed and the "sound record"
thus produced is printed from it upon a positive film,
where it appears as a series of short parallel lines of varying light density, corresponding to the sound vibrations,
which have.controlled in turn the variation in the electric
current passing to the light valve and the corresponding
variations of light passing through it to the sensitized
film.
In reproducing the recorded sound the procedure isreversed. The positive sound film is passed before a light
slit, from which the light passes through the sound record
film to a photoelectric cell, which is devised to produce a
variable electric current corresponding to the light variations caused by the moving record film. The electric
current thus produced is amplified and passed to a loud
speaker, where it is translated into sound vibrations..
Successful operation of the talking motion picture involves synchronization of the sound and picture records,
The difficulties of synchronization are obvious where the
reoorded picture and sounds are separately reproduced
by independent mechanisms. Success has been achieved,
and convenience in use of the two records secured, by
uniting them upon a single positive film and passing it
at the requisite uniform speed through a single apparatus
designed to reproduce both the sound and the picture. A
familiar method of securing the two records on a single
film is by photographing simultaneously the picture record and the sound record side by side upon the same strip
of film and then printing from the developed negative a
single positive film. This method was disclosed in the
Haines, British Patent, No. 18,057, of 1906; in the Ries
Patent, U. S. No. 1,473,976, of 1923, applied for in 1913;
in the French patent to MacCarty, No. 448,757, of 1912;
and in the Walker Patent, U. S. No. 1,186,717, of 1916.
Another method is by mechanically uniting the two positive records, as by cementing them together, after they

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

have been separately printed from negatives separately exposed and developed. This was disclosed by the Bullis
Patent, U. S. No. 1,335,651, of March 30, 1920, applied for
in 1915. A third method, which is that claimed by the patent in suit, is by printing the two records on a single positive film from separately exposed and developed negatives.
In petitioner's practice separate photographic films,
moving at uniform speed, axe separately exposed, so as to
record t scene and the accompanying sounds, and are then
separately developed. The two records are then printed,
side by side, on a single positive film, used for reproducing
the picture and the sound. In the typical reproducing
apparatus the film passes successively through the picture
projector and the mechanism for sound reproduction. Accordingly, synchronization is accomplished by arranging
the two records on the positive film in such relative positions that the two records will simultaneously reach the
two mechanisms for reproduqing them, so that the reproduced sound will accompany the reproduced scene of the
picture as it did when they were recorded.
The specifications of the patent state broadly that it is
of great advantage to arrange the sound record sequences
and the picture record sequences on a single film. They
then describe the technical difficulties in developing the
negative when the sound and picture records are photographed on a single film. They point out that the picture
record is made under changing light conditions, which
may result in over or under exposures, which will require
correction and a treatment in the development of the negative different from that suitable to the sound sequence,
which is recorded under different light conditions. It is
said that it is practically impossible to secure the variations in treatment required for developing the two types
of record where the two sequences, picture and sound, are

PARAMOUNT CORP. v. TRI-ERGON CORP. 469
464

Opinion of the Court.

photographed upon the same film strip. The specifications then describe the invention as follows:
"According to the present invention the difficulty is
overcome by either employing entirely separate films for
the simultaneous photographing of the sound and picture negatives, or films which are connected during. the
photographing, but which are separated from one another
before the developing, then separately developing the
negatives if and in the manner required to remedy the
difficulties, and then printing both sequences--picture and
sound---on the different portions of the same positive
film."
Respondent relies on Claims 5 to 9, inclusive, and Claim
11 of the patent, of which it is agreed Claim 5 is typical.
It reads as follows:
"A process for producing a combined sound and picture
positive film, for talking moving pictures, comprising pho.tographing a sequence of pictures on one length of film,
and simultaneously photographing on another length of
film a corresponding sequence of sounds accompanying
the action, separately developing the two negatives in a
manner appropriate for each, and printing the sound and
picture negatives respectively upon different longitudinally extending portions of the same sensitized film, to
form the sound sequences at one side of and along the
picture sequence."
It will be observed that the claimed method or process
is for combining sound and picture records on a single
film and comprises three steps: first, the simultaneous photographing of a picture record and a record of the accompanying sound, each on a separate negative; second, the
separate development of the two negatives in a manner
appropriate to each; and third, the printing, either simultaneously or successively, from the two negatives of the
sound record and the picture record side by side on a single
positive film.

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

It is important to indicate the more significant features
of the sound reproduction procedure and mechanisms
which are not embraced in the claims. The patent does
not claim either a method or a device for recording or for
reproducing sound, or a method of synchronizing the two
records, or the use of a single film in the reproduction of
combined sound and picture records, or any method or
device for printing the positive record from the two
separate negatives.
While the claims speak of a process or method for producing a combined sound and picture positive film, it is
obvious that the process described and claimed has no
necessary connection with sound reproduction. The positive film bearing the combined sound and picture records
is a product of the photographic art. The method
claimed for producing it relates exclusively to that art. It
is neither a method of sound recording or sound reproduction. It claims only a process every step in which is an
application of the art of photography: simultaneous exposure of the negatives, their separate development, and
printing from them a single positive film. The process is
as applicable. to any other form of photographic record
as to a photographic sound record. It is as effective in
the production of the one as the other. Its importance to
the sound picture industry arises only from the fact that
the single film, bearing the two records, for which no
patent is claimed, is of great utility in that industry.
An examination of the prior art can leave no doubt that
the method, as thus described and clearly restricted by the
patent, lacks novelty ahd invention. The only step in
respondent's method, for which any advance could be
claimed over earlier methods, is the process of uniting two
records on a single positive film by printing them from
separate negatives. The Bullis Patent, already mentioned, and the Craig Patent, U. S. No. 1,289,337, of 1918,
had shown the simultaneous exposure and separate devel-

PARAMOUNT CORP. v. TRI-ERGON CORP. 471
464

Opinion of the Court.

opment of sound and picture films, the advantages of
which, as well as the advantages of the double record on a
single film, were well known. The claim to invention is
thus narrowed to the single contention that the patentees
secured the benefit of these well known advantages by
resort to the added step of uniting the two separate photographic records, sound and picture, by printing them on a
single film.
The practice of printing separate photographs from separately developed negatives upon a single positive film
has long been known to, photographers. Standard photographic dictionaries, published here and abroad between
1894 and 1912, describe the procedure for "combination
printing" of a single positive picture from separately developed negatives.' The procedure is shown to have been
followed in the laboratories of the Eastman Kodak Company for many years prior to April, 1921, the date claimed
for the present patent, and before that date the Company
had made special materials for use in combination printing.
The practice was also well known in the motion picture
industry. In 1908 the American Mutoscope & Biograph
Company made and released in the United States a motion picture, The Music Master. This licturie was prepared by separately photographing two scenes. From the
separately developed negatives a positive was printed,
showing the two pictures on the same strip of film, from
'Wilson's Cyclopaedic Photography, published by Edward L. Wilson, New York, 1894; Encyclopaedic Dictionary of Photography; by
Woodbury, published by Scovill & Adams Co., New York, 1896;
Konig, published by Dawbarn & Ward, Ltd., London, 1906; Cassell's
Cyclopaedia of Photography, by Jones, published by Cassell & Company, Ltd., 1912. (The references, with quoted portions of the texts,
were made a part of the record by stipulation.) The publication last
mentioned states that "combination printing had its origin in 1855,
when Berwick and Annan, of Glasgow, exhibited a picture printed
from two different negatives-a figure and a landscape "; numerous
later examples of the practice are given.

472

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

which the motion picture was reproduced. The British
Downing Patent, No. 6,727, of 1913, discloses methods and
apparatus for producing motion pictures, accompanied by
printed words used by the actors, the two records being
printed on a single positive film from separately exposed
and developed negatives. The Messter Patent, U. S. No.
1,286,383, of 1918, and the British Patent, No. 21,467,
issued to Rossi in 1909, each discloses a method of printing
two separately exposed picture records on a single film.
The Craig Patent, already mentioned, calls for separate
exposure and development of sound and picture negatives,
simultaneously recorded, and their printing on opposite
sides of a single film. The Greensfelder Patent, U. S. No.
1,254,684, of 1918, discloses a method for printing, from
separately exposed and developed negatives, a sound record and a picture record on the same side of a single positive film. The function of the sound record differed
radically from that contemplated by respondent's patent,
but this is immaterial so far as its printing is concerned,
in which the Greensfelder patent does not substantially
differ from that in suit. While these patents did not specifically mention the separate development of the negatives
of the two records, it appears that they were photographed
separately upon separate negatives, and the record shows
that at their dates the state of the art was such as to require separate development of the two negatives. The
practice and advantage of separate development are also
shown to be well known. This and other evidence in the
record abundantly supports the finding of the trial court
that as early as 1908 it was common practice in the motion
picture industry to print, on standard positive film, composite pictures from separately developed negatives.,.
The simultaneous photographing of sound and picture
records was not novel, separate development of the negatives was well known, the advantage of uniting the two
records, sound and picture, on a single film was well

PARAMOUNT CORP. v. TRI-ERGON CORP. 473
464

Opinion of the Court.

known, and the method of uniting two photographic picture records by printing them from the separate negatives
was well known.
This use of an old method to produce an old result was
not invention. See Electric Cable Co.. v. Edison Co., 292
U. S. 69, 80, and cases cited. Even if it be assumed that
the Greensfelder patent did not anticipate that of respondent, because the sound record there mentioned was designed directly to operate musical instruments, rather
than a loudspeaker, all that was novel in the claimed
method was it5 application in the production of a combined sound and picture record, instead of a combination
of two picture records. To claim the merit of invention
the patented process must itself possess novelty. The application of an old process to a new and closely analogous
subject matter, plainly indicated by the prior art as an
appropriate subject of the process, is not invention.
Brown v. Piper,91 U. S. 37, 41; see PennsylvaniaR. Co.
v. Locomotive Truck Co., 110 U. S. 490, 494; Dreyfus v.
Searle, 124 U. S. 60, 64; Concrete Appliances Co. v. Gomery, 269 U. S. 177, 184, 185. However wide the differences
between the procedures and results of sound reproduction
from film on the one hand, and picture reproduction on
the other, the method of producing photographic sound
and picture records and uniting them on the positive.film
are identical, for both sound and picture records, from the
time of exposure of the negatives until the single film is
completed. With knowledge of the well understood advantages of the union of the two records on a single film,
it required no more than the expected skill of the art of
photography to use an old method of printing photographically the two negatives upon a single positive.
Against this conclusion respondents throw the weight of
voluinixous evidence, showing the practical utility and
wi(lespread use of the patented process, which prevailed
with hM to)ur. below as sufficient to establish invention.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

It is said that, however simple and obvious the method
may appear to be now that it is in successful use, no one
before the patentees had used it for producing the union
of a sound and a picture record. Respondents also allege
that the positive film produced by its method is more useful than any it had been possible to produce by other
methods, and that it has found all but universal acceptance. These considerations, it is urged, should turn the
scale in favor of invention.
Laying aside the objection that it is only when invention is in doubt that advance in the art may be thrown in
the scale, DeForest Radio Co. v. General Electric Co., 283
U. S. 664, 685; Smith v. Dental Vulcanite Co., 93 U. S.
486, 495, 496, we think the evidence of utility and prompt
acceptance of the patented method, in the circumstances of
this case, adds little weight to the claim of invention. The
greater utility of respondent's film over those effecting the
union of the two records by other methods does not establish the novelty of the method. Evidence of great utility
of a method or device, it is true, may in some circumstances be accepted as evidence of invention. Where the
method or device satisfies an old and recognized want,
invention is to be inferred, rather than the exercise of"
mechanical skill. For mere skill of the art would normally
have been called into action by the generally known want.
See Loom Co. v. Higgins, 105 U. S. 580, 591; Krementz
v. Cottle Co., 148 U. S. 556, 560; Hobbs v. Beach, 180 U. S.
383, 392; Carnegie Steel Co. v. Cambria Iron Co., 185
U. S. 403, 429, 430; Expanded Metal Co. v. Bradford, 214
U. S. 366, 381.
But the state of the motion picture art, as it is disclosed
by the present record, indicates that there was no generally recognized demand for any type of film record, for
the reproduction of sound to accompany motion pictures,
until after the present patent was. applied for. See Hollister v. Benedict & Burnham Mfg. Co., 113 U. S. 59, 73.

PARAMOUNT CORP. v. TRI-ERGON CORP. 475
464

Opinion of the Court.

Compare McClain v. Ortmayer, 141 U. S. 419, 428; Grant
v. Walter, 148 U. S.. 547, 556.
Before 1926 motion pictures were silent and there was
no convincing evidence that the public would prefer the
sound picture. In that year Warner Brothers exhibited
sound pictures produced by the" disc system, provided by
the Western Electric Company. At that time the Company had for some years been experimenting with both
film and disc systems for recording sound, and it had
electrically recorded disc phonographic records which were
in commercial use. The addition of sound on disc to motion pictures involved merely the attachment of the
phonographic type of turntable to the ordinary motion
picture projector, without any extensive modification of
the projector or the film printing machines then in use, as
was later necessary in order to employ the film method.
Moreover, as has already been indicated, skilfully devised
mechanisms were required for successfully recording and
reproducing sound by the film method, a problem distinct
from any method of uniting the sound and picture records
upon a single film.
Until these appliances were perfected there could be no
pressing and generally recognized demand for the sound
film. It was not until after the public interest in sound
pictures was disclosed, in the summer of 1926, that the
mechanism for recording and reproducing sound by the
film' method was carried to a state of perfection which
would warrant its production in commercial form. " The
light valve was produced in commercial form in December, 1926, and the first installations were in 1927.. A rival
system, of the Fox Case Company, for recording and reproducing sound by film, was not brought to completion until after 1926. Other problems engaging the attention of experimenters in this field were the necessary
improvement of the photo-electric cell, the devising of
suitable emulsion for sound negatives, of apparatus for

476

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

"mixing" the sound to be recorded, and the mechanical
perfection of the apparatus for reproducing sound from
film. See Altoona Publix Theatres v. American TriErgon Corp., decided this day, post, p. 477.
Thus there is no basis shown by this record for the contention that advance in this phase of the motion picture
industry was awaiting the development of the combined
sound and picture record upon a single positive film. On
the contrary, the inference seems plain that the advance
awaited the public acceptance of the sound motion picture; that when the public demand became manifest it
was still necessary to develop suitable mechanisms, not
embraced in the patent, for the reproduction of sound
from film. There had long been, ready at hand, knowledge in the photographic art which would enable one
skilled in the art to produce the film suitable for use in
the new apparatus. Indeed, at some time before 1924,
Wente, engaged in research on sound film apparatus for
the Western Electric Company, without any knowledge of
the work of the patentees of the present patent, had prepared the combined sound and picture positive film by
printing it from separate negatives, separately exposed
and developed.
The bare fact that several inventors, in the early stages
of sound reproduction, working independently, of whose
knowledge and skill in the photographic art we know little
or nothing; failed to resort to a method, well known to
that art, for printing a combination film for which there
was then no generally recognized need, does not give rise
to the inference of invention.
The court below also rested its decision on the ground
that the petitioner is estopped to deny the validity of the
patent by the application of Wente, April 8, 1924, who was
in the employ of the Western Electric Company, for a
patent for an improvement in recording and printing the
sound record film, which contained claims broad enough

ALTOONA THEATRES v. TRI-ERGON CORP. 477
464

Syllabus.

to include the method claimed by respondent. These
claims were rejected by the Patent Office as reading on
the British Patent 178,442 of the present patentees, and
the Greensfelder patent, already mentioned. However
inconsistent this early attempt to procure a patent may
be with petitioner's present contention of its invalidity for
want of invention, this Court has long recognized that
such inconsistency affords no. basis for an estoppel, nor
precludes the court from relieving the alleged infringer
and the public from the asserted monopoly when there is
no invention. Haughey v. Lee, 151 U. S. 282, 285.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

ALTOONA PUBLIX THEATRES, INC. v. AMERICAN TRI-ERGO.N CORP. ET AL.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 255.

Argued February 5, 1935.-Decided March 4, 1935.

1. The bringing together of old elements in a mechanism involving
no new principle, to produce an old result, however skillfully it
be done, and even though the result mark an advance in efficiency
and utility, is but an exercise of mechanical skill and not invention. P. 4S6.
2. It is the claims of a patent that define the invention. P. 487.
3. A deficient claim can not be aided by reading into it parts of
other claims or of the specifications. P. 487.
4. A plain absence of invention is not overcome by evidence of
utility and commercial success of the thing patented, even though
the evidence indicate that a long-felt want was satisfied. P. 4S7.
* Together with No. 256, Wilmer & Vincent Corp. et al. v. American Tri-Ergon Corp. et al. Certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Third Circuit.

