OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

294 U. S.

completed the third grade at high school, and a year at
military school. It does not seem possible that he had
never read the policy, which so plainly insures against
total permanent disability. In the light of all the circumstances,. his explanation is not credible.
The court below, after reviewing the evidence and the
decisions of this and other courts, reached the conclusion
that petitioner had not sustained the burden of proof and
that the- trial court was justified in directing a verdict for
the government. That conclusion is well supported by our
recent decision in the Lumbra case, supra, and by other
decisions. See, e. g., Proechel v. United States, supra;
United States v. Thomas, supra; Hanagan v. United
States, 57 F. (2d) 860, 861.
Judgment affirmed.
MANUFACTURERS' FINANCE CO. v.
TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY.

McKEY,

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.'

No. 522.

Argued February 13, 14, 1935.-Decided March 4, 1935.

1. The appointment of a receiver upon the application of a creditor
is not an act of bankruptcy, except in cases of insolvency. P. 447.
2. A contract by which a corporation, in consideration of moneys to
be advanced and services to be rendered, assigned designated
accounts receivable and agreed to collect them, turn over the
proceeds, as collected, to the assignee, and pay the assignee, as
compensation for the advances and services, a specified percentage
rate on the net face of the accounts, remains binding on receivers
appointed by a federal court to carry on the corporation and its
business as a going concern, if it was valid and binding on the
corporation. P. 447.
3. The fact that such a contract seems hard and oppressive because
of the heavy interest rate exacted of the corporation will not
authorize the federal court of equity to ignore it or modify its
terms if the contract is free from mistake or fraud and valid by

MANUFPACTURERS' CO. v. McKEY.
442

Opinion of the Court.

state law, and if the party claiming under it intervened in the
receivership case, not to seek equity but merely for the protection
of his legal rights under the contract. P. 448.
4. The maxim "He who seeks equity must do equity" presupposes
that equitable, as distinguished from legal, rights have arisen
from the subject- matter in favor of each of the parties; and it
requires that such rights shall not be enforced in favor of one
who affirmatively seeks their enforcement, except upon condition
that he accord to the other his correlative equitable rights.
P. 449.
5. The maxim " He who comes into equity must come with clean
hands" does not apply to one who comes in perforce to secure the
fruits of a perfectly valid-albeit a hard-contract. P. 451.
6. This maxim, when applicable, requires that the party affected
shall be denied relief in toto. P. 451.
7. Where, because of an error in limine, the merits and measure of
a claim on the facts and law applicable have not been inquired
into by the two lower federal courts, this Court may reverse the
decrees of both and remand to the District Court for further
proceedings in accordance with the opinion. P. 453.
72 F. (2d) 471, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 293 U. S. 552,

to review the aflirmance of a

decree of the District Court, which allowed only in part

a demand made by the present petitioner on the receivers
of a corporation. The corporaiLon became bankrupt while
the case was pending in the court below, and the trustee
in bankruptcy was substituted for the receivers.
Mr. Edward I. Rothbart, with whom Mr. Samuel A.
Dew was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Thomas L. Marshall for respondent.
MR.JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This writ brings here for consideration certain questions
in respect of the enforcement of a contract between petitioner and Grigsby-Grunow Company (hereinafter referred to as the company) made October 5, 1933. The

444

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

contract purports to be one for the purchase of designated
accounts receivable for which petitioner promised to pay
100% of the actual net amounts thereof, less a charge for
interest on the purchase money outstanding and less compensation for certain services rendered or to be rendered
by petitioner. Fifty per cent. of the actual net amounts
was to be paid in cash upon acceptance of the accounts;
and.the remainder, with specified deductions and additions,
was to be paid immediately upon payment of the accounts.
All original checks, drafts, notes, etc., received by the company in full or partial payment of any of the accounts so
purchased were to be delivered to petitioner at its office
on the day of their receipt. Attorneys' fees, costs and
expenses incurred by petitioner were to be paid by the
company. Compensation for services was to be at the
rate of 831/2% of 1/30th of 1% of the net face amount of
accounts for each day from the date of purchase. Total
charges against the company, as estimated by the parties,
would equal about 20% per annum upon the outstanding
balance of cash advances up to November 24, 1933.
Among other services, petitioner agreed to furnish to
the company specified information upon request in respect
of customers; to furnish information and advice as to the
most desirable method of keeping books, records, and accounts of the company; to give, upon request, financial
and business advice; to obtain and have on hand at all
times funds to make prompt remittance for acceptable
accounts; to supply forms needed for assignment of accounts; to put its credit and collection department at the
disposal of the company and to furnish advice a10 opinions
as to the form and legality of the company's sales contracts with its customers.
On November 24, 1933, in a suit brought by a creditor
against the compary, a federal district court for the northera district of Illinois appointed receivers to preserve the
-roper y and assets of the company. The company was

MANUFACTURERS' CO. v. McKEY.
442

Opinion of the Court.

solvent, having assets greatly exceeding its liabilities; and
the receivers were directed to continue the business as a
going concern and to do all things necessary to that end
and to preserve the property. They were directed to take
charge of all assets, books of account, etc.; to employ and
discharge and fix compensation of employees, agents, etc.;
to collect, sell and liquidate accounts, etc.; and to purchase
on credit or otherwise such supplies and equipment as
might be necessary to continue the business as a going
concern. All persons were enjoined from interfering with
the receivers in their possession of the property, the administration of their trust, or in the performance of the
duties imposed upon them.
The receivers refused to pay over to petitioner anything
collected on the assigned accounts unless directed to do so
by the court. Subsequently, such direction being given,
the receivers from time to time paid to petitioner various
sums which, together with an amount collected by the
petitioner itself, finally liquidated the amount due petitioner up to the time when the receivers were appointed.
This liquidation was effected between the date of the receivership and December 29, 1933-a period of 35 days.
Petitioner had already (on November 29, 1933) intervened
in the receivership proceeding with a petition seeking compliance on the part of the receivers with the terms of its
contract; and, after the liquidation to the extent stated
above had been effected, petitioner continued the proceeding under its petition, demanding payment at the contract
rate of a sum aggregating, at the end of the 35-day period,
$4,394.48, together with reasonable attorneys' fees and
costs. No accounts were purchased or assigned after the
receivership, and the only obligation which remained was
to carry out the terms of the contract in so far as they
affected the accounts already assigned.
The gross sum which petitioner received under the contract for the time prior to the receivership was equal to

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

the estimated 20% per annum on the moneys actually
advanced to the company. The amount which it was
claimed had accrued during the 35-day period was equivalent to an average of about 28.3% per annum from the
date of the appointment of the receivers. The petition
asked for reasonable attorneys' fees without specifying
any amount. The only testimony on the subject was that
of an attorney who said the sum of $7,800 was reasonable.
The district court entered a decree in favor of petitioner
for $1,087.93, being at the rate of 7% instead of 28.3%
per annum upon the outstanding balances. That court
denied all further relief on the sole ground that petitioner's
demand was inequitable and that in making it petitioner
had not come into equity with clean hands. The decree
was affirmed by the court of appeals. 72 F. (2d) 471.
The basis of that court's decision cannot be better stated
than in its own words [p. 473]:
"The insistence of appellant upon its claim for the full
rate of interest plus attorneys' fees at a preposterous rate,
when it appeared that there was no more business to be
done under the contract because of the receivership of
the Company savors too much of the exaction of the pound
of flesh from the creditors of the insolvent company to be
enforcible in a court of equity. If this case arose in an
action at law between the original parties it may well be
that the court could not refuse to enforce the contract according to its strictest terms. But where the creditor goes
beyond the practice of the parties under the original contract and tries to enforce rights never asserted against the
other contracting party, and in addition tries to collect
counsel fees exceeding 177% of the maximum amount
claimed against the receiver who is attempting to salvage
the assets for the benefit of the other creditors who have a
substantial interest in the estate of the debtor, we can not

MANUFACTURERS' CO. v. McKEY.
442

Opinion of the Court.

feel that a court of equity is any place for him to press his

demands."
February 18, 1934, while the appeal was pending in the
court of appeals, a petition in bankruptcy was filed in the

federal district court against the company; and this was
followed by an adjudication of bankruptcy and the selection, April 16, 1934, and qualification, later, of the respondent McKey as trustee in bankruptcy. Subsequently, upon
the application of both parties, McKey was substituted
in the court of appeals as appellee.
In connection with the discussion which follows, two
considerations are to be borne in mind. 1. When the receivers were appointed November 24, 1933, the company
was solvent, having assets exceeding its liabilities in the
sum of $13,000,000, and there is nothing in the record to
suggest that this condition of solvency did not continue
until after the completion of the 35-day period here involved. 2. What effect, if any, an act of bankruptcy
might have had upon the life or operation of the contract
we need not determine, since it is plain that the appointment of a receiver upon the application of a creditor is not
an act of bankruptcy except in cases of insolvency. Title
11, U. S. C. ยง 21 (a), as amended May 27, 1926, Title 11,
U. S. C. Supp. VII, ยง 21 (a) (5); Nolte v. Hudson Nay.
Co., 8 F. (2d) 859, 866; Meek v. Beeztr, 28 F. (2d) 343,
345; In re Edward Ellsworth Co., 173 Fed. 699, 700-701;
In re GuardianBuilding & Loan Assn., 53 F. (2d) 412, 415.
The effect of the contract was to bind the company as
agent of petitioner to collect the purchased accounts and
deliver to the latter the proceeds in kind from day to day
as fast as they were collected. The receivers were equally
bound.
The extent of the benefit which accrued to the company
by reason of the advantages which evidently were expected to result from the opportunity to avail itself of the

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

use of a large part of the proceeds of the accounts in
advance of their payment, and from the services of petitioner, is not a matter for judicial inquiry. The parties
dealt at arm's length. The contract was voluntarily executed by the board of directors of the company. It is not
suggested that there was any mistake or any fraud or overreaching on the part of petitioner. The contract, it is
conceded, is valid under the statutes of Illinois as construed by the Supreme Court of the State, Tennant v.
Joerns, 329 Ill. 34; 160 N. E. 160; and, so far as the
record discloses, it was performed on the part of petitioner
in all respects up to, at least, the appointment of the
receivers.
But the court below refused to be bound by the law of
Illinois, upon a theory which it had advanced in a former
case, In re Chicago Reed & FurnitureCo., 7 F. (2d) 885,
namely, that a state law can not "abrogate the rule that
courts of equity will not lend their aid to enforce contracts
which upon their face are so manifestly harsh and oppressive as to shock the conscience." With that view as here
applied we are unable to agree.
The contract was in force when the receivers were appointed; and it continued effective until the expiration of
thirty-five days thereafter, at which time it was brought
to an end. During that period, if there were no default on
petitioner's part, the contract, in so far as it remained unperformed, was enforcible against these receivers as theretofore it had been against the company. Merchants' &
Manufacturers' Securities Co. v. Johnson, 69 F. (2d) 940,
945; compare Fosdick v. Schall, 99 U. S. 235, 251.
The mere fact that a party is obliged to go into a federal court of equity to enforce an essentially legal right
arising upon a contract valid and unassailable under controlling state law does not authorize that court to modify
or ignore the terms of the legal obligation upon the claim,

MANUFACTURERS' CO. v. McKEY.
442

Opinion of the Court.

or because the court thinks, that these terms are harsh
or oppressive or unreasonable. A party may stand upon
the terms of a valid contract in a court of equity as he
may in a court of law. "If he asks no favors, he need
grant none. But if he calls on a court of chancery to put
forth its extraordinary powers and grant him purely equitable relief, he may with propriety be required to submit to
the operation of a rule which always applies in such cases
and do equity in order to get equity." Fosdick v. Schall,
supra,at p. 253. The petitioner here did not seek equitable relief. It sought an enforcement of its legal rights;
and, as said by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania,
"Legal righis are as safe in chancery as they are in a
court of law, and however strong an appeal may be to the
conscience of a chancellor for equitable relief, he is powerless to grant it if the one from whom it must come will
be deprived of a legal right." Colonial Trust Co. v. Central
Trust Co., 243 Pa. 268, 276; 90 Atl. 189. The maxim "he
who seeks equity must do equity" presupposes that equitable, as distinguished from legal, rights, substantive or
remedial, have arisen from the subject matter in favor
of each of the parties; and it requires that such rights shall
not be enforced in favor of one who affirmatively seeks
their enforcement except upon condition that he consent
to accord to the other his correlative equitable rights. But
it is well settled, this court said in Hedges v. Dixon
County, 150 U. S. 182, 189, "that a.court of equity, in
the absence of fraud, accident or mistake, cannot change
the terms of a contract."
Missouri, Kansas & Texas Trust Co. v. Krumseig, 172
U. S. 351, dealt with the precise question now under consideration. The situation presented there was the converse of that presented here, but the applicable principle
is the same. There, suit was brought in equity in a state
court to cancel a mortgage and certain notes secured there-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

by, on the ground that they embodied a contract bad
for usury under a state statute. The suit was removed
to a federal district court. That court granted the relief
which was sought, conditionally, and its decree was
affirmed by the circuit court of appeals. The state law
declared such a contract to be wholly void. Both courts,
however, invoking the equitable maxim "he who seeks
equity must do equity," held that the plaintiff could not
have the relief except on the generally recognized equitable condition that he pay to the lender the money loaned
together with legal interest. This court, rejecting the
view of the lower courts that a federal court in the exercise of its jurisdiction cannot be deprived of the power or
relieved of the duty to enforce and apply the established
principle of equity embodied in the maxim, said (pp.
358-359):
"We think it a satisfactory reply to such a proposition
that the complainants in the present case were not seeking equity, but to avail themselves of a substantive right
under the statutory law of the State . .. With the policy
of the state legislation the Federal courts have nothing
to do. If the States . . . think that the evils of usury
are best prevented by making usurious contracts void,
and by giving a right to the borrowers to have such contracts unconditionally nullified and cancelled by the
courts, such a view of public policy, in respect to contracts
made within the State aid sought to be enforced therein,
is obligatory on the Federal courts, whether acting in
equity or at law. The local law, consisting of the applicable statutes as construed by the Supreme Court of
the State, furnishes the rule of decision."
Compare Brine v. Insurance Co., 96 U. S. 627.
Again, in Columbus v. Mercantile Trust Co., 218 U. S.
645, 662, this court declined to apply the maxim in favor
of a plaintiff who had failed to prove- his case 'against a

M.

MANUFACTURERS' CO. v. McKEY.
442

Opinion of the Court.

defendant, who had filed a cross-bill for defensive relief,
holding that the maxim applied only against one who had
affirmatively sought equitable relief.
- It seems to be conceded, or, if not, it must be, that in
an action at law against the receivers the court would have
been bound to enforce the contract under review strictly
in accordance with its terms. And, not to go beyond the
case in hand, the rule is not otherwise where plaintiff,
precluded by judicial order from proceeding at law, is
obliged to submit the determination of his strictly legal
rights to a chancery court because it has plenary control
of the remedy.
The maxim that "he who comes into equity must come
with clean hands," which the district court invoked and
made the basis of its decision, for reasons similar to those
already stated, is equally inapplicable. Certainly no unconscionable or inequitable conduct can be attributed to
petitioner because it undertook to secure the fruits of a
perfectly valid-albeit a hard--contract in the only court
to which it could apply without being subject to a charge
of contempt. Moreover, the maxim, if applicable, required the district court to halt petitioner at the threshold
and refuse it any relief whatsoever-not to compromise
with it, as the court did, by allowing a part of what was
claimed. It seems plain enough that in no aspect of the
case is any equitable principle involved.
The decisions of the court below in the present case and
in the Reed Furniture Co. case, supra, are contrary to
every other decision called to our attention or that we have
been able to find involving a similar situation. A case
practically the same as that presented here is Merchants'
& Manufacturers' Securities Co. v. Johnson, supra. The
contracts there invol-ed were identical with the one here,
and were likewise governed by the law of Illinois denying
to a corporation the defense of usury. A receiver had been

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

appointed to continue the business of the corporate parties
to the contract. In deciding the case, the court of appeals
of the Eighth Circuit emphasized the fact that the receiver
was appointed (as the receivers were here) not to wind up
the affairs of the corporations but to carry on their business as going concerns; and it held that he succeeded to
their property subject to the contract rights which obtained at the time of his appointment. "He had no
greater or different rights than those that might have
been asserted by the companies." Reversing a decree of
the district court, the court of appeals directed the entry
of a decree in favor of the securities company for the full
amount claimed, that amount to constitute a special lien
upon all accounts receivable still unpaid and upon the proceeds of the same in the hands of the receiver. In re International Raw Material Corp., 22 F. (2d) 920, involved a
contract which, although not in identical terms, was in
principle the same as that here under consideration. That
court, resting upon a New York statute denying to a corporation the defense of usury, enforced the contract
against a trustee in bankruptcy. It considered and definitely rejected the doctrine announced in the Reed Furniture Co. case, holding there was no justification for nullifying the agreement of the parties because the interest
and commissions deliberately arranged were too large to
satisfy the ideas of a court. See, also, to the same effect,
In re Gotham Can Co., 48 F. (2d) 540; Ramsey v. Marlin
Firearms Corp., 14 F. (2d) 314; Estes v. E. B. Estes &
Sons, 24 F. (2d) 756.
We see no escape from the logic of these decisions.
The receivers alleged as a defense, apparently by way
of recoupment, that they had expended a large sum of
money in making collection of the accounts which inured
to the benefit of petitioner by assuring to it a return of
its advances. The district court found that the receivers,
among other things; had expended $35,000 in advertising

MANUFACTURERS' CO. v. McKEY.
442

Opinion of the Court.

in order to maintain the good will of the company and preserve its receivables as live and valuable assets, and seemed
to think that the petitioner had been benefited thereby.
No suggestion, however, is made by either of the lower
courts or by the respondent as to how much of these expenditures should be borne by petitioner; and the record
affords no information by which the amount can be calculated. Even less does it appear how much, if Any, of these
expenditures related to the assigned accounts.
Whether, upon further and more definite evidence, under all the circumstances and consistently with the provisions of the contract, petitioner may be held for any part
of these expenditures, we do not determine.
Both lower courts refused to allow any amount for attorneys' fees, apparently on the ground, which we have
rejected, that to do so would be contrary to equitable
principles. The contract seems to contemplate a reasonable allowance for such fees, but the amount, if any, remains to be fixed by the district court upon consideration
of all pertinent facts relating to services rendered by the
attorneys after the date of the receivership, and with due
relation to its ultimate determination upon the merits.
As already appears from what has been said, the decrees
below rest wholly on the untenable assumption that petitioner's rights are subject to denial or curtailment in virtue
of equitable principles applicable only against one who
affirmatively has sought equitable relief; and here that
was not the case. The question, or extent, of petitioner's
legal rights--relieved of this assumption-has been
neither determined nor considered upon the facts or the
applicable law. The duty and responsibility of that consideration and determination lie primarily with the lower
courts; and, in the light of the peculiar circumstances disclosed by the record, should not, we think, be assumed in
the first instance by this court. To the end that such
duty and responsibility may be discharged, we conclude

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

294 U. S.

that the decrees of both courts should be reversed and the
cause remanded to the district court for further proceedings in conformity with the foregoing opinion.'
We refrain from expressing any opinion as to the effect
of any change of circumstances, due to the receivership
and liquidation of petitioner's claims during the period
in question, upon the amount, if any, of petitioner's recovery, or any opinion in respect of the law applicable
thereto.
Reversed.

HILDEGARD SCHOENAMSGRUBER v. HAMBURG
AMERICAN LINE.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH

CIRCUIT.

No. 424. Argued February 8, 1935.-Decided March 4, 1935.
1. In a proceeding in admiralty based upon a contract containing
a provision for the arbitration of claims arising out of a breach,
an order of the District Court, pursuant to the U. S. Arbitration
Act, directing the parties to proceed to arbitration, staying the
trial of the action pending the filing of the award, and retaining
jurisdiction to enter its decree upon the award, is interlocutory
and not appealable. P. 456.
2. The order is not an interlocutory injunction within the meaning
of ยง 129 of the Judicial Code, allowing appeals from interlocutory
orders in certain proceedings. P. 456.
1 This disposition of the case finds precedent in a large number of
decisions of this court, among which the following are cited as exarmiples: Owensboro v. Owensboro Waterworks Co., 111 U. S. 358, 372;
Wilson Cypress'Co. v. Del Pozo, 236 U. S. 635, 656-7; Brown v.
Fletcher, 237 U. S. 583, 586; Gerdes v. Lustgarten, 266 U. S. 321,
327; Twist v. Prairie Oil Co., 274 U. S. 684, 692; United States v.
Brims, 272 U. S. 549, 553; Grant v. Leach & Co., 280 U. S. 351, 363.
* Together with No. 425, Gustav Schoenamsgruber v. Hamburg
American Line. Certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit.

