OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

WILBER NATIONAL BANK OF ONEONTA,
ADMINISTRATOR, v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 210. Argued December 7, 1934.-Decided February 4, 1935.
1. As a general rule, the United States is not estopped by arrangements or agreements of its agents to do what the law does not sanction; and those who deal with its agents are charged with notice of
the limitations of their powers. P. 123.
2. Quaere, how far, if at all, these general rules are subject to modification where the Government enters into transactions of a commercial nature. P. 124.
3. Assuming that the United States may be estopped in its insurance
business, it is not bound to pay a policy which had lapsed and become nonreinstatable, merely because the Veterans' Bureau did not
notify the insured of how a cash payment by him was allocatedto
premiums and other charges, or notify him of the default, such
notices not being customary in the Bureau's practice; nor because
the Bureau did not promptly acknowledge sums which were remitted to it as premium payments after the policy had lapsed and
when reinstatement had become impossible. P. 124.
69 F. (2d) 526, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 293 U. S. 541, to review' the reversal of a
judgment recovered against the United States in an
action on a government life insurance policy.

Mr. William Wolff Smith, with whom Mr. Frank C.
Huntington was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Will G. Beardslee, with whom Solicitor General
Biggs and Mr. Wilbur C. Pickett were on the brief, for
the United States.
MR. JUSTIcE MCREYNoLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
July 1, 1927, James Patrick Mahar applied to the
United States Veterans' Bureau for reinstatement of
$5,000 insurance upon his life, and with- the application

WILBER NAT. BANK v. U. S.
120

Opinion of the Court.

sent check for $13.90. The allocation of this sum then
suggested by him gives no indication that he thought it
sufficient to meet any premium due after August 1st.
September 19, a policy in the usual form issued and
was delivered. It showed payment of the monthly premium-$3.95--due July 1st, and that like payment would
be necessary on the first of each succeeding month. Also:
".. . This policy takes effect on the first day of July,
nineteen' hundred and twenty-seven ....
"Premiums are due and payable monthly in advance"
and "if any premium be not paid when due, this policy
shall cease and become void . . ." but that "a grace of
thirty-one days without interest will be allowed during
which time the policy will remain in force. . . . This
policy, if it has not been surrendered for a cash value, may
be reinstated at any time after lapse upon evidence of.the
insurability of the insured satisfactory to the Director of
the United States Veterans' Bureau, and upon the payment of all premiums in arrears, with interest from their
several due dates at the rate of five per centum per annum, and the payment or reinstatement of any indebtedness which existed at the time of such default, with policy
loan interest."
A letter dated July 29th acknowledging receipt of the
check which accompanied the application contained the
following, clause:
" Important.-Insurance under the application evidenced by the above remittance shall be effective subject
to the World War Veterans' Act, 1924, and Regulations . . ."
Neither this letter nor any other notice informed the,
assured how the $13.90 had been allocated, but under the
statute and regulations it sufficed to pay prescribed
charges, and two premiums on the $5,000 policy-July 1st
and August 1st; also $2.65 for credit on the premium due
September 1st.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

Two remittances of $3.95 by or for the assured were
made to the Bureau November 2nd and December 20th
respectively. These were retained, but were not acknowledged until after the assured's death. After issuance of
the policy no notice was given the assured concerning
payment of premiums, default, or that the policy had
lapsed or was about to do so. Apparently the only communications sent prior to his death were the receipt of
July 29th, and the policy, delivered September 19th.
Nothing indicates that the Bureau ordinarily sent
notices concerning premiums or lapses. We are referred
to no statute or regulation which required such a notice.
No officer of the Bureau is shown to have had power to
reinstate lapsed policies without evidence of insurability.
Mahar became totally incapacitated October 17th, but
the Bureau had no notice of this fact. He died the twentyfourth of December. Payment under the policy was refused upon the ground that it had lapsed because of failure to pay the premium due September 1st. The grace
period ended October 2nd.
Petitioner, as administrator of the estate, brought this
action in the District Court, Northern District, New York
(ยง 445, c. 10, Title 38, U. S. C.). It alleged issuance of
the policy, that all matured premiums upon the policy had
been duly paid, and asked recovery.
According to the provisions of the policy it expired
October 2nd. But petitioner claimed, and the District
Court ruled, that because the Bureau failed to. give notice
concerning allocation of the sum forwarded July 1st, failed
to give notice of the due dates of the premium or that the
policy had or was about to lapse, and retained the two
payments of $3.95 each, the United States were estopped
to deny liability. It said:
"If the defendant was a private insurance company, I
would have no hesitancy in declaring it estopped from

WILBER NAT. BANK v. U. S.
120

Opinion of the Court.

claiming the policy had lapsed for non-payment of premium. . . . The same principle should be applied against
the defendant in this case. 'When the United States went
into the insurance business, issued policies in familiar
form, and provided that, in the case of disagreement, it
might be sued, it must be assumed to have accepted the
ordinary incidents of suits in such business.' "
Judgment for the petitioner was reversed. The Circuit
Court of Appeals held:
"The conditions of the policy relating to premium payments were not met by payment of the premium due
September 1, 1927, and the insurance policy therefore expired, counting in the grace period, on October 2, 1927,
unless there was a waiver by the appellee. The claim
that there was such a waiver cannot be sustained ...
The law does not permit waiving statutory requirements
by the acts of employees of the government. The failure
to pay the premiums prior to October 2 resulted in a
lapse of the policy which may not now be held to be
waived by the conduct of the government's employees."
The cause is here by certiorari granted upon an application which asserts that the questions presented are:
First, whether the United States are engaged in the life
and disability insurance business, and obligated to observe
the same rules in respect of notices, applying premiums
and obeying customs that are applicable to competing
commercial companies; and Second, whether the United
States, in the circumstances shown, are bound by the acts
of their agents like other insurance companies and estopped to deny payments because of such acts.
Undoubtedly, the general rule is that the United States
are neither bound nor estopped by the acts of their officers
and agents in entering into an agreement or arrangement
to do or cause to be done what the law does not sanction
or permit. Also, those dealing with an agent of the United

124

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

States must be held to have had notice of the limitation
of his authority. Utah Power & Light Co. v. United
States, 243 U. S. 389, 409; Sutton v. United States, 256
U. S. 575, 579.
How far, if at all, these general rules are subject to
modification where the United States enter into transactions commercial in nature (Cooke v. United States, 91
U. S. 389, 399; White v. United States, 270 U. S. 175,
180) we need not now inquire. The circumstances presented by this record do not show that the assured was
deceived or misled to his detriment, or that he had adequate reason to suppose his contract would not be enforced or that the forfeiture provided for by the policy
could be waived. Insurance Co. v. Eggleston, 96 U. S.
572; Phoenix Insurance Co. v. Doster, 106 U. S.30. The
grounds upon which estoppel or waiver are ordinarily
predicated are not shown to exist.
The statutes and regulations which govern the War
Risk Insurance Bureau we must dssume are known by
those who deal with it. When issuing a policy the Bureau, so far as shown, did not ordinarily notify the assured
of the allocation of the cash payment; there was no custom to give notice of defaults. Here the insured had no
right to expect such notices. His policy finally lapsed
October 2nd. After that no officer of the Bureau had authority to reinstate it without proof of insurability. The
policy so declared.
The assured's health began to decline in September and
on October 17th he was permanently and totally disabled,
but no notice of this was given. Payments of November
2nd and December 20th were sent when this disability
existed. They were received by the Bureau -when ignorant of the true situation, and at a time when reinstatement by affirmative action was inadmissible.
Nothing indicates intention by any officer or agent to
vary the contract; and we find nothing done or omitted

JURNEY v. MAcCRACKEN.
Statement of the Case.

120'

from which the assured or his representatives could reasonably imply such purpose or intent. The claim of
estoppel or waiver is not supported by the facts shown
and the questioned judgment must be
Affirmed.
JURNEY v. MAcCRACKEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 339.

Argued January 7, 8, 1935.-Decided February 4, 1935.

1. The power of a House of Congress to punish a private citizen who
obstructs the performance of its legislative duties, is not limited to
the removal of an existing obstruction but continues after the obstruction has ceased or its removal has become impossible. P. 147.
Held in this case that the Senate had power to cite for contempt
a witness charged with having permitted the removal and destruction of papers which he had been subpoenaed to produce.
2. The Act making refusal to answer or to produce papers before
either House, or one of its committees, a misdemeanor (R. S. ยง 102)
did not impair but supplemented the power of the House affected
to punish for such contempt. P. 151.
3. Punishment, purely as such, through contempt proceedings, legislative or judicial, is not precluded because punishment may also be
inflicted for the same act as a statutory offence. P. 151.
4. Where a proceeding for contempt is within the jurisdiction of a
House of Congress, the questions whether the person arrested is
guilty or has so far purged himself that he does not deserve punishment, are questions for that House to decide and which can not be
inquired into by a court by a writ of habeas corpus. P. 152.

63 App. D. C. 342; 72 F. (2d) 560, reversed.
Supreme Court, D. C., affirmed.

U. S. 543, to review the reversal of a
a writ of habeas corpus by which
discharging
judgment
the above-named respondent sought to gain his release
from the custody of the above-named petitioner, the
Sergeant-at-Arms of the Senate.
CERTIORARI, 293

