OCTOBER TERM, 1934.

608

Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

SEMLER v. OREGON STATE BOARD OF.DENTAL

EXAMINERS

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF OREGON.

No. 538.

Argued March 7, 1935.-Decided April 1, 1935.

1. The fact that an exercise of the police power forbidding certain
forms of advertising by dentists will interfere with existing contracts for display signs and press notices does not touch the
validity of the regulation. P. 610.
2. A regulation of dentists is not invalid as to them because it does
not extend to other professional classes. P. 610.
3. A regulation preventing dentists from advertising their professional
superiority and their prices; from use of certain forms of advertising.
signs; from use of advertising solicitors or publicity agents; from
advertising free dental work, free examinations, guaranteed work,
and painless operations,-held valid under the due process clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment, without regard to the truthfulness of
the representations or the benefit of the services advertised. P. 611.
4. It is within the authority of the State to estimate the baleful
effects of such advertising, and to protect the community not only
against deception but against practices which, though they may be
free from deception in particular instances, tend nevertheless to
lower the standards of the profession and demoralize it. P. 612.
148 Ore. 50; 34 P. (2d) 311, affirmed. "
APPEAL

from the affirmance of a judgment dismissing

the complaint in a suit to enjoin the enforcement of a
statutory regulation of dentists.
Mr. Frank S. Senn, with whom Mr. H. R. Colwell was
on the brief, for appellant.
Messrs. Lawrence T. Harris, Harry M. Kenin, and
Frank P. Keenan were on the brief for appellees.

MR. CHIEF JusTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This case presents the question of the validity of a
statute of the State of Oregon, enacted in 1933, relating

SEMLER v. DENTAL EXAMINERS.
608

Opinion of the Court. -

to the conduct of dentists. Oregon Laws, 1933, Chapter
166. Previous legislation had provided for the revocation of licenses for unprofessional conduct, which, as then
defined, included advertising of an untruthful and misleading nature. The Act of 1933 amended the definition
so as to provide the following additional grounds for
revocation:
".. . advertising professional superiority or the performance of professional services in a superior manner;
advertising prices for professional service; advertising by
means of large display, glaring light signs, or containing
as a part thereof the representation of a tooth, teeth,
bridge work or any portion of the human head; employing or making use of advertising solicitors or free publicity
press agents; or advertising any free dental work, or free
examination; or advertising to guarantee any dental
service, or to perform any dental operation painlessly."
Plaintiff, a dentist practicing in Portland, Oregon,
brought this suit in the state court against the members
of the State Board of Dental Examiners to enjoin the enforcement of the statute, alleging that it was repugnant
to the due process and equal protection clauses of the
Fourteenth Amendment, and impaired the obligation of
contracts in violation of ยง 10, Article I, of the Constitution of the United States. The circuit court, overruling
this contention, sustained *a demurrer to the complaint
and, upon the refusal of plaintiff to plead further, the
suit was dismissed. On appeal, the Supreme Court of
the State took the same view of the federal question and
affirmed-the judgment. 148 Or. 50; 34 P. (2d) 311. The
case comes here on appeal.
Plaintiff alleged in his complaint that he was licensed
in 1918; that he had continuously advertised his practice
in newspapers and periodicals, and by means of signs of
the sort described in the amended statute, and that he had
employed advertising solicitors; that in his advertise-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

ments he had represented that he had a high degree of
'efficiency and was able to perform his professional services in a superior manner; that he had stated the prices
he would charge, had offered examination of prospective
patients without charge, and had also represented that
he guaranteed all his dental work and that his dental operations were performed painlessly. He further alleged
that the statements in his advertisements were truthful
and were made in good faith; that by these methods he
had developed a large and lucrative practice; that
through long training and experience he had acquired
ability superior to that of the great majority of practicing
dentists; that he had been able to standardize office operations, to purchase supplies in large quantities and at
relatively low prices, and thus to establish a uniform
schedule of charges for the majority of operations; also
that he had made contracts for display signs and for
advertisements in newspapers, and had entered into other
engagements, of which he would be unable to take advantage if the legislation in question were sustained, and, in
that event, his business would be destroyed or materially
impaired.
Plaintiff is not entitled to complain of interference with
the contracts he describes, if the regulation of his conduct
as a dentist is not an unreasonable exercise of the protective power of the State. His contracts were necessarily
subject to that authority. Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis
Co., 240 U. S. 342, 363; Union Dry Goods Co. v. Georgia
Public Service Comm'n, 248 U. S. 372, 375, 376; Sproles
v. Binford, 286 U. S. 374, 391; Stephenson v. Binford,
287 U. S. 251, 276. Nor has plaintiff any ground for objection because the particular regulation is limited to
dentists and is not extended to other professional classes.
The State was not bound to deal alike with all these
classes, or to strike at all evils at the same time or in the
same way. It could deal with the different professions
according to the needs of the public in relation to each.

SEMLER v. DENTAL EXAMINERS.
608

Opinion of the Court.

We find no basis for the charge of an unconstitutional
discrimination. Watson v. Maryland, 218 U. S. 173, 179;
Miller v. Wilson, 236 U. S. 373, 384; Missouri ex rel. Hurwitz v. North, 271 U. S. 40, 43; Dr. Bloom, Dentist, Inc.
v. Cruise, 288 U. S. 588.
The question is whether the challenged restrictions
amount to an arbitrary interference with liberty and
property and thus violate the requirement of due process
of law. That the State may regulate the practice of dentistry, prescribing the qualifications that are reasonably
necessary, and to that end may require licenses and establish supervision by an administrative board, is not open
to dispute. Douglas v. Noble, 261 U. S. 165; Graves v.
Minnesota, 272 U. S. 425, 427. The State may thus afford
protection against ignorance, incapacity and imposition.
Dent v. West Virginia, 129 U. S. 114, 122; Graves v. Minnesota, supra. We have held that the State may deny to
corporations the right to practice, insisting upon the personal obligations of individuals (Miller v. State Board of
Dental Examiners, 90 Colo. 193; 8 P. (2d) 699; 287 U. S.
563), and that it may prohibit advertising that tends to
mislead the public in this respect. Dr. Bloom, Dentist,
Inc. v. Cruise, 259 N. Y. 358, 363; 182 N. E. 16; 288
U. S. 588.
Recognizing state power as to such matters, appellant
insists that the statute in question goes too far because
it prohibits advertising of the described character,
although it may be truthful. He contends that the superiority he advertises exists in fact, that by his methods
he is able to offer low prices and to render a beneficial
public service contributing to the comfort and happiness
of a large number of persons.
The State court defined the policy of the statute. The
court said that while, in itself, there was nothing harmful
in merely advertising prices for dental work or in displaying glaring signs illustrating teeth 'and bridge work, it
could not be doubted that practitioners who were not

612

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

willing to abide by the ethics of their profession often
resorted to such advertising methods " to lure the credulous and ignorant members of the public to their offices
for the purpose of fleecing them." The legislature was
aiming at "bait advertising." " Inducing patronage,"
said the court, "by representations of 'painless dentistry,'
' professional superiority,' ' free examinations,' and ' guaranteed' dental work" was, as a general rule, " the
practice of the charlatan and the quack to entice the
public."
We do not doubt the authority of the State to estimate
the baleful effects of such methods and to put a stop to
them. The legislature was not dealing with traders in
commodities, but with the vital interest of public health,
and with a profession treating bodily ills and demanding
different standards of conduct from those which are traditional in the competition of the market place. The
community is concerned with the maintenance of professional standards which will insure not only competency
in individual practitioners, but protection against those
who would prey upon a public peculiarly susceptible to
imposition through alluring promises of physical relief.
And the community is concerned in providing safeguards
not only against deception, but against practices which
would tend to demoralize the profession by forcing its
members into an unseemly rivalry which would enlarge
the opportunities of the least scrupulous. What is generally called the "ethics" of the profession is but the
consensus of expert opinion as to the necessity of such
standards.
It is no answer to say, as regards appellant's claim of
right to advertise his "professional superiority" or his
"performance of professional services in a superior manner," that he is telling the truth. In framing its policy
the legislature was not bound to provide for determinations of the relative proficiency of particular practitioners.

PANHANDLE CO. v. HIGHWAY COMM'N. 613
Counsel for Parties.

608

The legislature was entitled to consider the general effects
of the practices which it described, and if these effects
were injurious in facilitating unwarranted and misleading
claims, to counteract them by a general rule, even though
in particular instances there might be no actual deception
or misstatement. Booth v. Illinois, 184 U. S. 425, 429;
Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192, 201; Hebe Co.
v. Shaw, 248 U. S. 297, 303; Pierce Oil Corp. v. Hope, 248
U. S. 498, 500; Euclid v. Ambler Realty Co., 272 U. S.
365, 388, 389.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
PANHANDLE EASTERN PIPE LINE CO. v. STATE
HIGHWAY COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF KANSAS.

No. 412.

Argued February 7, 1935. Reargued March 13, 1935.Decided April 1, 1935.

1. A statute of Kansas (Laws 1929, c. 225, ยง 16) which, as construed
by the state supreme court, authorized the state highway commission to order a pipe line company, at its own expense, to
relocate and make certain other changes in its pipe and telephone
lines, then located on a private right of way, to conform to plans
adopted for new highways to cross the right of way, deprives the
company of its property without due process of law in violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 618.
2. Railroad grade crossing cases and New Orleans Gas Light Co. v.
Drainage Commission, 197 U. S. 453, distinguished. Pp. 621, 622.
139 Kan. 185, 849; 29 P. (2d) 1104; 33 P. (2d) 151, reversed.

from a judgment, of the Supreme Court of
Kansas granting a peremptory writ of mandamus to enforce an order of the State Highway Commission.
APPEAL

Mr. G. J. Neuner, with whom Mr. Chester J. Gerkin
was on the brief, for appellant.

