FOX v. STANDARD OIL CO.

87

Syllabus.

FOX v. STANDARD OIL COMPANY OF
NEW JERSEY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.

No. 69.

Argued November 9, 1934.-Decided January 14, 1935.

1. Filling stations and distribution plants where gasoline, other petroleum products, and automobile accessories are sold, are "stores "
within the meaning of the West Virginia Chain Store License Tax
Act, defining the term store as including any mercantile establishment in which goods, wares or merchandise of any kind are sold,
etc. P. 95.
2. The legislative history of this Act, and contemporaneous interpretation by the agent charged with its enforcement, help to confirm
the above-stated conclusion. P. 96.
3. Although administrative constructions of state statutes by state
officials are not binding in cases coming from federal tribunals, this
Court will lean to an agreement with them. P. 96.
4. A chain of gasoline stations maintained in a single ownership, held
constitutionally subject to a different measure of taxation from stations in separate ownership. State Board of Tax Commissioners v.
Jackson, 283 U. S.527; Liggett Co. v. Lee, 288 U. S. 517. P. 97.
5..Graduated state taxes on a chain of gasoline stations in single ownership, held valid against objections that the accumulated exactions
were so oppressive and disproportionate to benefits as to amount to
arbitrary discrimination and confiscation, repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 99.
6. A chain of stores is a distinctive business species, with its own capacities and functions; broadly speaking, its opportunities and
powers become greater with the number of the component links;
and the greater they become, the more far-reaching are the economic and social consequences. P. 100.
7. For that reason, the State may tax large chains more heavily, upon
a graduated basis; and it i.y make the tax so heavy as to discourage multiplication of units . d by the incidence of the burden
develop other forms of industry. P. 100.
8. The graduated tax law being uniform in its application to chains
of gasoline stations and chains of other stores, the fact that the tax

88

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Appellee.

294 U. S.

burden falls very largely on the former chains, because of the great
multiplication of their units, does not render the classification
arbitrary. P. 101.
9. The West Virginia graduated tax on stores does not violate § 1 of
Art. 10 of the West Virginia constitution, which requires that taxation shall be equal and uniform throughout the State. P. 102.
6 F. Supp. 494, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court, constituted
of three judges, enjoining the Tax Commissioner of West
Virginia from paying into the state treasury a sum of
money exacted by him, and paid to him under protest, as
license taxes on a chain of filling stations owned by the
plaintiff Oil Company. The decree also commanded that
the money be repaid to the plaintiff.
Mr. Homer A. Holt, Attorney General of West Virginia,
with whom Messrs. R. Dennis Steed and Win. Holt Wooddell, Assistant Attorneys General, were on the brief, for
appellant.
Mr. H. D. Rumm 'l, with whom Messrs. Donald 0.
Blagg and A. G. Stone were on. the brief, for appellee.
State Board of Tax Commissioners v. Jackson, 283
U. S. 527, decided that chain store operators and independent store merchants may be classified separately for
purposes of taxation, because of special factual advantages in chain store operation. It was -held that these
advantages justified a progressively graduated tax upon
the group of chain store operators, based upon the number of store units and rising to a maximum of $25 per
unit. This Court pointed out that the statute treated
"upon a similar basis all owners of chain stores similarly
situated." This was said apparently because the same
unit measurement for the tax was applied to the entire
group of chain store operators, and because, when compared to the situation of the independently operated

FOX &'.STANDARD OIL CO.
87

Argument for Appellee.

store, it could not be said that a progression up to $25 per
store did not roughly and reasonably relate to the value
of the privilege of operating a chain of stores and of
adding stores to the chain. The Court, in its consideration of the Jackson case, did not have before it a tax
which was either arbitrarily oppressive, or which palpably
and unreasonably discriminated between members of the
chain store class.
The Court there recognized that there must be some
correlation, albeit a rough and ready correlation, between
the difference in fact and the difference in the tax. The
difference in fact which the Court found was present was
the advantage of operation through chain store methods,
and it was this advantage which justified the difference
in tax treatment. But, when the tax treatment so far
exceeds the advantage secured through chain store operation that any one must recognize that the treatment
bears no relation to the advantage, then the tax ignores
the difference in fact and bears no reasonable relation
to the purpose of the statute.
It is clearly impossible to decide as to the validity of
the differentiation of subjects into classes, without giving
consideration to the treatment which is to be based upon
such classification and the practical effect of such treatment. The rates are the heart of a system of tax classification, and only upon consideration of them can it be
determined whether a classification is rational or arbitrary.
The proposition that the Court may not consider the
rates withdraws from judicial consideration the very factor which renders the discrimination oppressive.
The record shows that the tax attempted to be imposed
confiscates the entire earnings of appellee's stations, and
as to the other oil companies paying the highest rate, the
tax is a capital levy.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Appellee.

294 U. S.

The company contends, as the district court held, that
the "combined characteristics" which feature typical
chain store systems do not inhere in the operation of
multiple service stations as compared with the operation
of single stations.
It denies that service stations come within the category
of " stores," and it contends that any broad classification
and tax graduation which applies to service stations must
bear some reasonable relation to the facts of the service
station business.
The validity of a taxing statute is to be determined
from its practical operation and effect. The practical
effect of the Act, as administered, is to single out the business of operating service stations, already heavily burdened, as the object of an enormous exaction.
The application of the Act to service stations is an im*position of palpably arbitrary and discriminatory rates of
taxation without rational relationship to the value of the
privilege subjected to the tax.
The appellant's application of the Act produces a discrimination so arbitrary and capricious as to amount to
the confiscation of the appellee's property and business
without due process of law.
This Court has said that a federal statute passed under
the taxing power may be " so arbitrary and capricious as
to cause it to fall before the due process clause of the
Fifth Amendment" (Tyler v. United States, 281 U. S.
497), and by like reasoning a state statute may fall before
the similar clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Towne
v. McElligott, 274 Fed. 960.
The Act designates "stores" as the subjects of the
license tax. The legislature used the word '! stores "' in
its ordinary, popular signification, which does not include
service 'stations and bulk plants. The incidental sale of
accessories does not change the controlling character of
appellee's service stations.

FOX v. STANDARD OIL CO
Opinion of the Court.

87

The construction of the language, as written, is sufficiently clear and certain to render resort to the legislative history of the Act unnecessary.
The Act must be construed strictly in favor of the taxpayer.
The taxing and licensing of service stations as " stores"
would violate the presumption against multiple taxation.
The Act does not apply to appellee's bulk distributing,
plants.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The controversy hinges upon the meaning and v91icjjfv
of the chain store license tax of West Virginia in its
application to distributing plants and service stations for
the sale of gasoline and kindred products.
On March 8, 1933, the legislature of West Virginia
passed a law whereby all persons and corporations operating or maintaining a store as therein defined were required to obtain an annual license from the state tax
commissioner. The license fee was graduated according
to the number of stores. Upon one store the fee was to
be $2; upon two stores or more, but not to exceed five,
the fee was to be $5 for each additional store; upon six
or more, but not to exceed ten, $10 for each additional
store; upon each store in excess of ten, but not to exceed
fifteen, $20; upon each in excess of fifteen, but not to
exceed twenty, $30; upon each in excess of twenty, but
not to exceed thirty, $35; upon each in excess of thirty,
but not to exceed fifty, $100; upon each in excess of fifty,
but not to exceed seventy-five, $200; and upon each in
excess of seventy-five, $250.
Appellee, complainant in the court below, is a Delaware corporation, engaged in the business of refining,
transporting and distributing petroleum products. It
owns or controls in West Virginia 949 service or filling

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

stations, and 54 bulk plants, a total of 1003. Of the 949
stations, there are 101 which are described as "company
owned "; these are both owned and operated by the complainant itself. "Leased outlets," 388 in number, and
"vending privilege outlets," 460 in number, are leased
by the complainant and operated by agents under commission contracts. By concession its control over these
outlets is so complete as to amount to operation within
the meaning of the statute. Finally there are 54 "bulk
or distributing plants," maintained chiefly for the storage
of petroleum products to be distributed to the stations,
but in part as a source of supply from which deliveries
are made to buyers.
Chains for the sale of gasoline have units many times
more numerous than chains for other purposes. The
longest "general commodity" chain is that of the Great
Atlantic & Pacific Tea Company with 198 stores within
the boundaries of West Virginia. Not only are the gasoline units more numerous, but the sales from any one
unit are, comparatively speaking, small, as must always
be the case when subdivision is so minute. The result is
to cast upon the complainant and upon competing chains
in the same business a burden much heavier, both absolutely and relatively to earnings, than any that is borne
by others. This is brought out clearly through statistical
tables in the record. The store license fees from all
sources during the year 1933 amounted to $569,693. Of
this total, stores other than gasoline stations contributed
$83,525 (single stores $21,723, and multiple stores $61,802). Single gasoline stations, maintained by independent dealers, 2,000 in number, contributed $5,000, and chain
gasoline stations $481,168, or 84.46% of the whole. Five
oil companies including the complainant paid $476,171 or
83.5%, and the complainant alone paid $240,173 or
42.16%. Other tables supply the data for a comparison
between the business done by the gasoline chains and that

FOX v. STANDARD OIL CO.
87

Opinion of the Court.

of chains for other purposes. If we look to the year 1932,
the latest year for which complete figures are forthcoming, 2,453 gasoline chain stations did an aggregate business
of $15,198,638, or 4.6% of the total chain business of the
state, yet they would have paid 84.46% of the tax if the
law had been in force during that year; 1,889 general retail stores in chain organizations did a total business of
$75,454,257, or 22.9% of the whole, and would have paid
10.7% of the tax, this because the number of the units
was relatively small. In 1932 the average gross revenue of
the complainant's gasoline stations was $26,822 for each
of the company-owned stations, and $3,892 for each of the
agency stations, the company-owned stations making by
far the better showing. During the same year the ui'erage net income for company stations was .$1,782.78 (it had
been more than double in 1931). and for agency stations
only $89.75. Upon that basis a tax of $250 would have
left a profit for the one group, but a loss for the other.
In the computation of this loss, a word may be of use
as to the bookkeeping methods in vogue in the complainant's business. The complainant's practice has'been to
bill the gasoline to its stations at the current market
prices, as if there were a sale to strangers. Such a mode
of segregation, unless corrected by other data, will give
at times a partial picture of the economic situation. If
the price at which the oil is billed includes a reasonable
profit for refining and transporting, the business may show
a gain when viewed in all its parts, though the later work
of marketing is carried on at cost or less. Stations scattered far and wide address a mass appeal to customers, and
thus stimulate them to buy at the sign that has made
itself familiar. True, the complainant lost money in the
process of refining from 1930 to 1933, but for anything
that is shown, the loss had its origin in the general economic depression prevailing in those years. Even so, there
can be no denial that service filling stations, when organ-

94

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

ized in chains, bear a heavier and harsher burden than
chains whose units are fewer and yet individually larger.
Impatient of that burden, the complainant brought
this suit in June, 1933, to restrain the State Tax Commissioner from paying into the treasury of the state the
sum of $240,173.50 paid under protest as the license taxes
of the year. The reason for resort to equity was the uncertainty as to the existence of any remedy at law for the
recovery of the taxes when once the moneys were deposited in the treasury, and subjectd thereby to the
state's ownership and power. In its bill of complaint the
complainant took the ground that the exactions were
illegal, first, because the gasoline stations were not stores
within the meaning of the statute, and, second, because
even though they were, the imposition of taxes was a
denial to the complainant of immunities secured by the
equal protection clause and the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment, and also by provisions of the
constitution of the State. A District Court of three
judges, organized in accordance with § 266 of the Judicial
Code (28 U. S. C. § 380), heard the complainant's application for interlocutory and permanent relief. The court
decided, after a careful review of the West Virginia statutes, that there was an imperfect remedy at law which
made permissible resort to equity. In that conclusion
we concur. The court decided also that the operation of
the tax in its application to chains of gasoline stations
was so much harsher and heavier than the operation of
the tax when applied to other chains as to constitute a
denial to the complainant of the equal protection of the
laws. Finally the court decided that gasoline stations
were not stores within the meaning of the statute. 6: F.
Supp. 494. The decree enjoined the payment of the contested fees into the treasury of the State, and ordered
restitution. An appeal to this court followed.

FOX v. STANDARD OIL CO.
87

Opinion of the Court.

First. The filling stations and distribution plants are
stores or mercantile establishments within the meaning
of the statute.
By § 8, " the term 'store' as used in this act shall be
construed to mean and include any store or stores or any
mercantile establishment or establishments which are
owned, operated, maintained and/or controlled by the
same person, firm, corporation, copartnership, or association, either domestic or foreign, in which goods, wares or
merchandise of any kind, are sold, either at retail or
wholesale."
There is no doubt that goods, wares and merchandise
of a kind, i. e., gasoline and other petroleum products,
and even tires and other automobile accessories, are sold
by the complainant and its agencies at its plants and
service stations. This satisfies the test of the statute,
and subjects the seller to the tax. We are told that the
average man if requested to point out to a stranger the
store nearest by or even the nearest mercantile establishment would not be likely to think of a filling station
as within the range of the inquiry.* Wadhams Oil Co. v.
State, 210 Wis. 448; 245 N. W. 646, 649; also 246 N. W.
687. There might be force in this suggestion if the
statute had left the meaning of its terms to the test
of popular understanding. Instead, it has attempted
to secure precision and certainty by rejecting a test so
fluid and indeterminate and supplying its own glossary.
The goods offered for sale are to be understood as liaving
reference to goods "of any kind," and the place at which
the sale is made shall include not only places that in the
common speech of men would be designated as stores,
but, broadly speaking, any mercantile establishment,
* Filling stations are ranked as stores by students of the chain
store problem: Zimmerman, The Challenge of Chain Store Distribution, p. 52.

96

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

whether a store or something else. In such circumstances
definition by the average man or even by the ordinary
dictionary with its studied enumeration of subtle shades
of meaning is not a substitute for the definition set before us by the lawmakers with instructions to apply it
to the exclusion of all others. Cf. Midwestern Petroleum
Corp. v. State Board of Tax Commissioners, 206 Ind. 688;
187 N. E. 882. There would be little use in such a
glossary if we were free in despite of it to. choose a meaning for ourselves.
Extrinsic tokens of intention, however, are not lacking
altogether, and though their force may not be great, they
point us the same way. In the passage of the bill through
the Senate, an amendment was proposed whereby the definition of a store in § 8 was to be supplemented by the
following proviso: " Provided, however, that the term
'store' shall not include filling stations engaged exclusively in the sale of gasoline and other petroleum products." The amendment was put to a vote and rejected.
What was done in that connection is doubtless not conclusive as to the meaning of the bill in the unamended
form. Murdock v. Memphis, 20 Wall. 590, 618. It is,
however, a circumstance to be weighed along with others
when choice is nicely balanced. Finlayson v. Shinnston,
113 W. Va. 434, 437; 168 S. E. 479; cf. United States v.
United Shoe Machinery Co., 264 Fed. 138, 174; Lapina v.
Williams, 232 U. S. 78, 89. Reinforcing this token is the
contemporaneous interpretation of the statute by the Tax
Commissioner of the State, the administrative agent
charged with its enforcement. Fawcus Machine Co. v.
United States, 282 U. S. 375, 378. We give to such construction "respectful consideration," though we have
power to disregard it. United States v. Moore, 95 U. S.
760, 763; Fawcus Machine Co. v. United States, supra.
The complainant was at liberty to maintain a suit in the
state-courts, where the meaning of the statute could have

FOX v. STANDARD OIL CO.
87

Opinion of the Court.

been determined with finality. It chose to have recourse
to the courts of the nation. In such circumstances we
are charged with a duty of independent judgment (Siler
v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 213 U. S. 175, 194; Hum
v. Ousler, 289 U. S. 238, 243), but in default of other tests,
we lean to an agreement with the agents of the state.
Second. The statute in its application to the complainant and others similarly situated does not deny to the taxpayer the equal protection of the laws.
The inquiry divides itself into two branches which call
for separate consideration. Is a series of filling stations a
chain of such a kind as to be subject to a different measure
of taxation from stations in separate ownership? This
question was answered by the court below in favor of the
State, but it is still pressed in this court by counsel for the
complainant. If the stations in a chain may be taxed
differently from independent units and the amount of the
tax fixed upon a graduated basis, is the graduation in its
consequences so extreme, so disproportionate to benefits,
as to be an arbitrary discrimination between longer chains
and shorter ones, or between chains for the sale of gasoline and for the sale of other products? This question
was answered by the court below in favor of the taxpayer.
(1) We think a series of gasoline stations maintained
in a sihgle ownership has the benefit of chain organization in such a sense and measure as to fall within the
scope of the decisions of this court in State Board of Th'x
Commissioners v. Jackson, 283 U. S. 527, and Liggett Co.
v. Lee, 288 U. S. 517. The opinion in Jackson's case
enumerates some of the advantages of chain store operation, and finds a sufficient basis for taxing chains differently from stores separately owned. The opinion in Liggett's case makes it clear that the list of benefits was for
illustration only, but that in every "integrated chain,"
whatever its particular quality, there is something constant and distinctive which marks it off from stores main-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

tained in separate ownership, and even from those combining in co6perative leagues. 288 U. S. at p. 532. The
complainant in this suit returns to the same method of
attack, picking out one feature of management after
another from the list in Jackson's case, as if what was
enumerated there were a code to which every chain is
to conform if it is to be subject to taxation in accordance
with a special system. The method is deceptive, yet
many of the chief benefits found in the structure of other
integrated chains will be discovered to be present here.
We have here abundant capital; standardization in
equipment and display; superior management; more
rapid turnover; uniformity in store management; special
accounting methods; and a unified sales policy co6rdinating the diverse units. The complainant receives the
crude oil from a subsidiary company, which produces onethird of what it sells and buys two-thirds from others,
these others, for all that appears, being affiliated corporations. The oil when delivered is refined by the complainant, and then billed to itself, that is to its stations
and agencies, at current market rates. Through all these
far flung instruments it distributes its own products and
spreads through every hamlet its repute as a distributor.
Ownership or control of a host of well-appointed depots,
uniform in design and color, has put the chains in a position to bring home to the consuming public the knowledge of their wares and of the quality of their service in
a way far beyond the capacity of the independent dealer
with one station or a few. The mere statement of the
number of depots maintained by the complainant-il,000
separate centres of attraction and distribution-must bear
persuasive witness to the tremendous potencies of advertisement, of reiterated suggestion, inherent in a business
conducted on such a scale. The results confirm the prophecy. There are 4,453 filling stations in West Virginia.
Of these only 55% are members of a chain, yet this 55%

FOX v. STANDARD OIL CO.
87

Opinion of the Court.

has been able to make 75% of the sales of motor fuel.
True the complainant has been willing to loan its distinctive labels and equipment to independent operators
dealing in its products, and even to paint their stations
so that they will seem to be its own. This practice has
been discontinued since the passage of the National Recovery Act and the adoption of a code thereunder. Even
before that time, however, the gasoline was billed to independents at a price one-half cent per gallon higher than
the price payable by agencies acting on a commission
basis. The discrimination may mean the difference between a profit and a loss. More important is this, that
the effect 'of multitudinous agencies, reaching into every
corner, and yet subject to regulation at a centre, is to fix
a uniform retail price to which independents must conform as the price of their existence. They are independent in name only, for. the chain sets the pace, and even
in competing they are subject to its mastery. They are
reminded every hour that a chain efficiently conducted,
with ample capital behind it, is able to attract the public
in a degree impossible for others. Indeed, some of them
are driven to pose as members of the chain by borrowing
its insignia in order to share its popularity. The popularity would be unattainable without a multiplicity of
units repeating the same message.
(2) Chains of gasoline stations being subject like other
chains to a graduated tax, the question remains whether
the rates are so oppressive as to amount to arbitrary discrimination or to unlawful confiscation.
When the power to tax exists, the extent of the burden
is a matter for the discretion of the lawmakers. The subject was fully considered in Magnano Co. v. Hamilton,
292 U. S. 40, decided at the list term. "Even if the tax
should destroy a business, it would not be made invalid
or require compensation upon that ground alone. Those
who enter upon a business take that risk." Alaska Fish

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

Co. v. Smith, 255 U. S. 44, 48, quoted in Magnano Co. v.
Hamilton, supra, p. 46. True the reservation was made
(292 U. S. at p. 44) that an act might be so arbitrary as
not to be an exercise of the taxing power at all, the form
of a tax being a cloak for something else. Cf. Child Labor
Tax Case, 259 U. S. 20. In respect of the challenged act,
there is neither evidence nor even claim of any such abuse.
On the contrary, the complainant has stated in its bill
that the "act is, in effect, a tax measure," its validity or
invalidity to be adjudged upon that basis. A chain, as
we have seen, is a distinctive business species, with its
own capacities and functions. Broadly speaking its opportunities and powers become greater with the number of
the component links; and the greater they become, the
more far-reaching are the consequences, both social and
economic. For that reason the state may tax the large
chains more heavily than the small ones, and upon a
graduated basis, as indeed we have already held, State
Board of Tax Commissioners v. Jackson, supra; Liggett
do this, but it may
Co. v. Lee, supra. Not only may it.
make the tax so heavy as to discourage multiplication of
the units to an extent believed to be inordinate, and by the
incidence of the burden develop other forms of industry.
Quong Wing v. Kirkendall, 223 U. S. 59; American Sugar
Refining Co. v. Louisiana, 179 U. S. 89, 95; Southwestern
Oil Co. v. Texas, 217 U. S. 114, 126; Sproles v. Binford,
286 U. S. 374, 394; Stephenson v. Binford, 287 U. S. 251.
In principle there is no distinction between such an exercise of power and the statute upheld in Magnano Co. v.
Hamilton, supra, whereby sales of butter were fostered and
sales of oleomargarine repressed. A motive to build up
through legislation the quality of men may be as creditable
in the thought of some as a motive to magnify the quantity of trade. Courts do not choose between such values
in adjudging legislative powers. They put the choice
aside as beyond their lawful competence. "Collateral

FOX v. STANDARD OIL CO.
87

Opinion of the Court.

purposes or motives of a legislature in levying a tax of a
kind within the reach of its lawful powers are matters
beyond the scope of judicial inquiry." Magnano Co. v.
Hamilton, supra, at p. 44; McCray v. United States, 195
U. S. 27, 56. The tax now assailed may have its roots
in an erroneous conception of the ills of the body politic
or of the efficacy of such a measure to bring about a cure.
We have no thought in anything we have written to declare it expedient or even just, or for that matter to declare
the contrary. We deal with power only.
The argument against the statute rings the changes
upon a comparison between the position of the gasoline
chains and that of chains for other products. The gasoline chains,* as already noted in this opinion, have units
more numerous by far than those that deal in other things,
and because of their size must pay a large percentage of
the tax, though it is not to be forgotten that there are
general commodity chains also within the upper brackets.
The outcome is no evidence of an arbitrary discrimination,
defiant of the restraints of law. All members of a class
within the same graduated levels are treated impartially
and subjected to an equal rule. Magoun v. Illinois Trust
& Savings Bank, 170 U. S. 283, 293, 296. If only one form
of chain chooses so to multiply its units, after arriving at
the topmost levels, as to make the burden heavy, it owes
its position on the scale and the aggravation of the tax
to the exigencies of business and not to those of law. The
classification is not arbitrary, but in its normal operation
has a rational relation to the subject matter to be taxed,
the capacity to pay, and the justice of the payment. Cf.
Magoun v. Illinois Trust & Savings Bank, supra; Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41, 54; Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61; Lake Shore & Michigan
The Standard Oil Co. of New Jersey, Sinclair Refining Co., Ashland Refining Co., Pure Oil Co., and Gulf Refining Co..

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

Southern Ry. Co. v. Clough, 242 U. S. 375, 385; Maxwell
v. Bugbee, 250 U. S. 525, 540, 541; Watson v. State Comptroller, 254 U. S. 122, 124; State Board of Tax Commissioners v. Jackson, supra, at p. 537. We have never yet
held that government in levying a graduated tax upon
all the members of a class must satisfy itself by inquiry
that every group within the class will be able to pay the
tax without the sacrifice of profits. The operation of a
general rule will seldom be the same for every one. If the
accidents of trade lead to inequality or hardship, the
consequences must be accepted as inherent in government
by law instead of government by edict.
Third. The statute does not violate the constitution of
West Virginia which requires that taxation shall be equal
and uniform throughout the state. Article 10, § 1.
The constitution of Indiana has a like provision which
was considered by this court when sustaining the chain
store tax in State Board of Tax Commissioners v. Jackson,
supra, at p. 542. The view was expressed that the standard of uniformity under the constitution of the state was
substantially the same as the standard of equality under
the Fourteenth Amendment of the constitution of the
nation.
Not finding that the courts of West Virginia have
spoken on the subject differently, we reach the same conclusion now. Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Garrett,
231 U. S. 298, 305. Cf. Laing v. Fox, 115 W. Va. 272; 175
S. E. 354, 359; Hope Natural Gas Co. v. Hall, 102 W. Va.
272; 135 S. E. 582; Pipe Line Co. v. Hallanan,87 W. Va.
396; 105 S. E. 506; Virginia v. Bibee Grocery Co., 153
Va. 935; 151 S. E. 293; Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co.
v. Maxwell, 199 N. C. 433; 154 S. E. 838; Moore v. State
Board of Charities & Corrections, 239 Ky. 729; 40 S. W.
(2d) 349; Standard Lumber Co. v. Pierce, 112 Ore. 314;
228 Pac. 812.

MOONEY v. HOLOHAN.
87

103

Syllabus.

Fourth. What has been said in respect of the contention that the tax has the effect of an arbitrary discrimi-

nation is a sufficient answer to the contention that property has been taken without due process of law.
The decree is reversed and the cause remanded for

further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.
Reversed.

MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE McREY-

NOLDS, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND, and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER, accepting the opinion and concurring opinion of the
court below as embodying a sound and correct view of the
law applicable to the first and second points discussed
in the opinion just delivered, think the judgment should
be affirmed.
MOONEY v. HOLOHAN, WARDEN.
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE PETITION FOR WRIT OF HABEAS
CORPUS.

No. -, original. Rule to Show Cause Issued November 12, 1934.
Return to Rule Presented January 7, 1935. Decided January 21,
1935.
1. The due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment governs any
action of a State through its legislature, its courts, or its executive
officers, including action through its prosecuting officers. P. 112.
2. A criminal conviction procured by the state prosecuting authorities solely by the use of perjured testimony known by them to be
perjured and knowingly used by them in order to procure the conviction, is without due process of law and in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 112.
3. It is the duty of every State to provide corrective judicial process
for the relief of persons convicted and imprisoned for crime without
due process of law; and it is to be presumed that this duty has been
complied with. P. 113.
4. Semble that in the courts of California the writ of habeas corpus
is available for one who is deprived of his liberty without due proc-

