MILLER v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

MILLER v. UNITED STATES..
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

OR THE

No. 342. Argued February 5, 6, 1935.-Decided March 4, 1935.
1. Section 11 (3) of the Act of December 24, 1919, amending § 302
of the War Risk Insurance Act, bringing conclusively within the
term "total permanent disability" the specific loss of a hand
and an eye, is limited in its operation to compensation allowances
and has no-application to war risk insurance. P. 438.
2. An administrative regulation, especially one which has the effect
of creating an obligation, cannot be construed to operate retroactively unless the intention to that effect unequivocally appears.
P. 439.
3. Because it assumes to convert what in the view of the statute is
a question of fact requiring proof into a conclusive presumption,
the provision of Veterans' Administration Regulation No. 3140
that the loss of a hand and an eye "shall be deemed to be total
permanent disability under yearly renewable term insurance" is
invalid. P. 439.
4. To entitle an insured under a policy of war risk insurance to
benefits conditioned on total -permanent disability, he has the
burden of showing not only the character and extent of his
injury but also that as the result of the injury he was disabled
permanently from following any substantially gainful occupation.
P. 440.
5. Under the circumstances of this case, held that an insured claiming disability benefits under a policy of war risk insurance had
not sustained the burden of proving total permanent disability.
P. 442.
It appeared that, while the insured was unable after the injury
(loss of an arm and an eye) to follow the occupation in which he
was engaged prior to. entering the service (surveying), and while
because of the .injury he was thereafter unable to continue in
employments requiring the use of both hands, yet he did undertake other gainful occupations, in which he failed not because of
his physical condition but because of his general inaptitude for
the work; also, that the policy was permitted to -apse upon his

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

discharge and no claim of total permanent disability was made
upon it until twelve years thereafter.
71 F. (2d) 361, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 293 U. S. 551, to review a judgment affirming a judgment for the United States in an action upon
a policy of war risk insurance.
Mr. James A. Lowrey, Jr., with whom Mr. Wallace
Miller was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Will G. Beardslee, with whom Solicitor General
Biggs and Messrs.. Wilbur C. Pickett and Randolph C.
Shaw were on the brief, for the United States.
Messrs. James T. Brady and Y. D. Mathes filed a
brief on behalf of the Veterans' Administration.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAN
Court.

delivered the opinion of the

Petitioner enlisted in the United States Army June 7,
1917, and was honorably discharged April 3, 1919. On
January 22, 1918, there was issued to him a war risk insurance policy, by the terms of which he was entitled to receive $57.50 per month in the event of his sustaining injuries causing total and permanent disability. No premiums were paid after the date of his discharge, and the
policy then lapsed. Claim was made for insurance on
June 5, 1931, twelve years later. The claim was disallowed by the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs on April
1, 1932. Thereupon, this action to recover judgment upon
the policy was brought.
The facts upon which the action is based follow: On
October 26, 1918, while in active service in France, petitioner sustained injuries in a railway accident resulting in
the amputation of his right arm. He alleges that, for all
practical purposes, the sight of his left eye was destroyed
at the same time. Although the evidence shows that the

MILLER v. UNITED STATES.
435

Opinion of the Court.

defective condition of the eye was congenital, no point is
made in respect of that fact; and for present purposes we
put it aside. At the conclusion of the evidence before the
trial court, the judge sustained a motion of the government
for a directed verdict, on the ground that the injuries did
not, as a matter of law, result in total and permanent disability. Verdict and judgment followed accordingly.
The Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment, 71 F. (2d)
361,:and we brought the case here on certiorari.
Article III of the Act of 1917 (c. 105, 40 Stat. 398, 405)
relates to compensation for death or disability. The provisions in respect of insurance are dealt with separately
(p. 409) in Article IV of the act; and this separatio, of
the two subjects has been maintained in subsequent acts.
The provision in respect of insurance (p. 409) is that upon
application to the Bureau, the United States "shall grant
insurance against the death or total permanent disability"
of, enlisted men and other classes of persons named in the
act. The provision of the act (§ 302) with respect to compensation was enlarged by the amending act of December
24, 1919, c. 16, § 11(3), 41 Stat. 371, 373, so as to bring
conclusivbly within the term " total permanent disability"
the loss of one hand and the sight of one eye; and this has
since remained the law. No such amendment was carried
into the insurance article of the act; and, in that respect,
the statute has never been changed.
Section 13 of the 1917 act, as amended, c. 77, 40 Stat.
555, confers upon the Director of the Bureau authority to
make such rules and regulations, not inconsistent with the
provisions of the act, as may be necessary or appropriate
to carry out its purposes. Under that provision, a regulation was issued March 9, 1918, declaring- "Any impairment of mind or body which renders it impossible for the
disabled person to follow continuously any substantially
gainful occupation shall be deemed, in Articles III and IV,
to be total disability." It was while this regulation was in

.438

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

effect that § 302 of the act was amended, as stated above,
to provide in respect of compensation that the loss of one
hand and the sight of one eye should be deemed total
permanent disability. In May, 1930' Regulation 3140 was
promulgated. That regulation, among other things, declares that the loss of one hand and one eye "shall be
deemed to be total permanent disability under yearly
renewable term insurance."
Succinctly stated, petitioner contends (1) that § 302, as
amended, applies to war risk insurance as well as to compensation allowances; (2) that regulation 3140 is within
the power of the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs (who
succeeded the Director of the Bureau), and controls the
present case; and (3) that, the foregoing aside, the evidence was sufficient to justify a verdict in his favor.
First. The argument as to the first point, in brief, is
this: The amendment to the compensation article of the
act, adopted in 1919, must be construed and applied in the
light of the regulation of March 9, 1918, of which regulation congressional knowledge and approval are to be assumed. By that regulation, the bureau adopted a uniform
rule applicable alike to compensation and insurance; and,
the contention seems to be, since Congress did not by
express words limit the operation of the amendment of
1919 to compensation, it is fair to conclude that it was
intended that the amendment, conforming to the principle
of the regulation, should apply to both compensation and
insurance. We see no warrant for that conclusion. When
the regulation was adopted, neither Article III nor Article
IV contained any specific provision in respect of the disabling effect of the loss of one hand and the sight of one
eye. By the amendment, not only was the formal expression of the new rule confined to Article III, but the opening words of the amendment quite clearly indicate a legislative intention to confine its application to that article.
These words are--" If and while the disability is rated as

MILLER v. UNITED STATES.
435

Opinion of the Court.

total and permanent, the rate of compensation [italics
added] shall be $100 per month," etc. It is hard to See
why the intention of Congress to limit the operation of
the amendment to compensation allowances is not thus
definitely and clearly manifested.
Second. Regulation 3140 was not adopted until eleven
years after the insurance policy had lapsed and petitioner's cause of action thereon had fully matured. Undoubtedly, the regulation in terms declares that permanent loss of the use of one hand and one eye shall be
deemed to be total permanent disability under an insurance policy such as that issued to petitioner. But the
regulation is both inapplicable and invalid.
It is inapplicable because it contains nothing to suggest
that it was to be given a retrospective effect so as to bring
within its purview a policy which had long since lapsed and
which had relation only to an alleged cause of.action long
since matured. The law is well settled that generally a
statute cannot be construed to operate retrospectively unless the legislative intention to that effect unequivocally
appears. Twenty per Cent. Cases, 20 Wall. 179, 187;
Chew Heong v. United States, 112 U. S. 536, 559; Fullerton-Krueger Co. v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co., 266 U. S.
435, 437. The principle is strictly applicable to statutes
which have the effect of.creating an obligation. An adininistrative regulation is subject to the rule equally with
a statute; and accordingly, the regulation here involved
must be taken to operate prospectively only.
It is invalid because not within the authority conferred
by the statute upon the Director (or his successor, the
Administrator) to make regulations to carry out the purposes of the act. It is not, in the sense of the statute, a
regulation at all, but legislation. The effect of the statute
in force at the time of the adoption of the so-called regulation is that in respect of compensation allowances, loss
of a hand and an eye shall be deemed total permanent dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

ability as a matter of law. There being no such provision
with respect to cases of insurance, the question whether a
loss of that character or any other specific disability constitutes total permanent disability is left to be determined
as matter of fact. The vice of the regulation, therefore,
is that it assumes to convert what in the view of the statute is a question of fact requiring proof into a conclusive
presumption which dispenses with proof and precludes
dispute.- This is beyond administrative power. The only
authority conferred, or which could be conferred, by the
statute is to make regulations to carry out the purposes of
the act-not to amend it. United States v. 200 Barrels of
Whiskey, 95 U. S. 571, 576; Morrillv. Jones, 106 U. S. 466,
467; United States v. Grimaud,220 U. S. 506, 517; Campbell v. Galeno Chemical Co., 281 U. S. 599, 610.
.Third. The burden was on petitioner not only to show
the character and extent of his injury, but also to show
that the result of the injury was to disable him permanently from following any substantially gainful occupation. Proechel v. United States, 59 F. (2d) 648, 652;
United States v. McCreary, 61 F. (2d) 804, 808. Petitioner lost his right arm; and the proof shows that he had
been right-handed. Before the injury he was a practical
engineer operating a surveying instrument; but with the
loss of his right arm he could not operate such an instrument. In 1919 he obtained employment in a packing
house, but found himself unable to retain the employment because it necessitated lifting heavy quarters of
meat which he could not do with one arm. He was also
unable to take orders for the house because he could not
hold the receiver of the telephone and write orders at the
same time. After three weeks, he was obliged to give.up
this employment. From time to time, he obtained other
work which involved the use of both hands and which he
was obliged to abandon. On the other hand, it appears
that he worked for twenty-two months in the business of

MILLER v. UNITED STATES.
435

Opinion of the Court.

selling stocks on commission, and for a few months in that
of selling goods, from neither of which he received much
in the way of income-not because his injury incapacitated him for the work, but because he lacked ability as a
salesman. It does not appear that he made any,earnest
endeavor to fit himself for this work, or any effort to engage in other work which ordinarily a one-armed man
with one defective eye could do. See United States v.
Thomas, 53 F. (2d) 192, 195. He testified that he had
received an average of $90 a month from the government
as compensation since his discharge. He also received
$2,500 from the sale of a farm in which he had an interest.
He was, therefore, not without resources with which to
obtain proper training. It does not appear that he undertook to do so. It is by no means infrequent for onearmed men to make a good living and support others by
performing work adapted to their condition. It is clear
from the evidence that the failure of petitioner in some of
the things he undertook to do was not because of his crippled condition, but because of his general inaptitude for
the work. The mere fact that he was unable to follow the
occupation of surveyor or to do work of the kind he had
been accustomed to perform before his injury does not
establish the permanent and total character of his disability. Lumbra v. United States, 290 U. S. 551, 559.
His long delay before bringing suit is wholly incompatible
with' a belief on his part that he was totally and permanently disabled during the period while his policy was in
force. Id., p. 560; United States v. Hairston, 55 F. (2d)
825, 827. If petitioner thought himself totally and permanently disabled, it is difficult to understand why he
waited twelve years before attempting to assert his rights.
The only explanation he makes for his delay is that he
thought a man had to die to get the insurance. How he
discovered his error after the extraordinary lapse of time
indicated above we are not told. He was intelligent, had

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

294 U. S.

completed the third grade at high school, and a year at
military school. It does not seem possible that he had
never read the policy, which so plainly insures against
total permanent disability. In the light of all the circumstances,. his explanation is not credible.
The court below, after reviewing the evidence and the
decisions of this and other courts, reached the conclusion
that petitioner had not sustained the burden of proof and
that the- trial court was justified in directing a verdict for
the government. That conclusion is well supported by our
recent decision in the Lumbra case, supra, and by other
decisions. See, e. g., Proechel v. United States, supra;
United States v. Thomas, supra; Hanagan v. United
States, 57 F. (2d) 860, 861.
Judgment affirmed.
MANUFACTURERS' FINANCE CO. v.
TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY.

McKEY,

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.'

No. 522.

Argued February 13, 14, 1935.-Decided March 4, 1935.

1. The appointment of a receiver upon the application of a creditor
is not an act of bankruptcy, except in cases of insolvency. P. 447.
2. A contract by which a corporation, in consideration of moneys to
be advanced and services to be rendered, assigned designated
accounts receivable and agreed to collect them, turn over the
proceeds, as collected, to the assignee, and pay the assignee, as
compensation for the advances and services, a specified percentage
rate on the net face of the accounts, remains binding on receivers
appointed by a federal court to carry on the corporation and its
business as a going concern, if it was valid and binding on the
corporation. P. 447.
3. The fact that such a contract seems hard and oppressive because
of the heavy interest rate exacted of the corporation will not
authorize the federal court of equity to ignore it or modify its
terms if the contract is free from mistake or fraud and valid by

