OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

294 U. S.

ket available to the plaintiff for the gold coin to which
he claims to have been entitled. Plaintiff insists that
gold had an intrinsic value and was bought and sold in
the world markets. But plaintiff had no right to resort
to such markets. By reason of the quality of gold coin,
"as a legal tender and as a medium of exchange," limitations attached to its ownership, and the Congress could
prohibit its exportation and regulate its use. Ling Su
Fan v. United States, supra.
The first question submitted by the Court of Claims is
answered in the negative. It is unnecessary to answer the
second question. And, in the circumstances shown, the
third question is academic and also need not be answered.
Question No. 1 is answered "No."
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND, and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

dissent. See post, p. .361.
PERRY v. UNITED STATES.*
CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 532. Argued January 10, 11, 1935.-Decided February 18, 1935.
1. A provision in a Government bond for payment of principal and
interest "in United States gold coin of the present standard of
value" must be faizly construed; and its reasonable import is an

assurance by the Government that the bondholder will not suffer
loss through depreciation of the medium of payment. P. 348.
2. The Joint Resolution of June 5, 1933, insofar as it undertakes to
nullify such gola clauses in obligations of the United States and
provides that such obligations shall be discharged by payment,
dollar for dollar, in any coin or currency which at the time of
payment is legal tender for public and private debts, is unconstitutional. P. 349.
3. Congress cannot use its power to regulate the value of money so
as to invalidate the obligations which the Government has thereSee note, p. 240.

PERRY v. UNITED STATES.
330

331

Syllabus.

tofore issued in the exercise of the power to borrow money on the
credit of the United States. Pp. 350 et seq.
4. There is a clear distinction between the power of Congress to control or interdict the contracts of private parties, when they interfere with the exercise of its constitutional authority, and a power
in Congress to alter or repudiate the substance of its own engagements when it has borrowed money under its constitutional authority. P. 350.
5. By yirtue of the power to borrow money "on the credit of the
United States," Congress is authorized to pledge that credit as
assurance of payment as stipulated,--as the highest assurance the
Government can give, its plighted faith. To say that Congress
may withdraw or ignore that pledge, is to assume that the Constitution contemplates a vain promise, a pledge having no other
sanction than the pleasure and convenience of the*pledgor. P. 351.
6. When the United States, with constitutional authority, makes contracts, it has rights and incurs responsibilities similar to those of
individuals who are parties to such instruments. P. 352.
7. The right to make binding obligations is a power of sovereignty.
P. 353.
8. The sovereignty of the United States resides in the people; and
Congress cannot invoke the sovereignty of the people to override
their will as declared in the Constitution. P. 353.
9. The power given Congress to borrow money on the credit of the
United States is unqualified and vital to the Government; and
the binding quality of the promise of the United States is of the
essence of the credit pledged. P. 353.
10. The fact that the United States may not be sued without its
consent, is a matter of procedure which does not affect the legality
and binding character of its contracts. P. 354.
11. Section 4 of the Fourteenth Amendment, declaring that, "The
validity of the public debt of the United States, authorized by law,
.. .shall not be questioned," is confirmatory of a fundamental

principle, applying as well to bonds issued after, as to those issued
before, the adoption of the Amendment; and the expression
"validity of the public debt" embraces whatever concerns the
integrity of the public obligations. P. 354.
12. The holder of a Liberty Bond, which was issued when gold was
in circulation and when the standard of value was the gold dollar
of 25.8 grains, nine-tenths fine, and which promised payment in
gold of that standard, claimed payment after the Government,
pursuant to legislative authority, had withdrawn all gold coin

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

294 U. S.

from circulation, had prohibited its export or its use in foreign
exchange, except for limited purposes under license, and had reduced the weight of gold representing the standard dollar to
15-5/21 grains and placed all forms of money on a parity with
that standard. The Joint Resolution of June 5, 1933, had enacted
that such bonds should be discharged by payment, dollar for
dollar, in any coin or currency which, at time of payment, was
legal tender for public and private debts. The bondholder, having
been refused payment in gold coin of the former standard or in an
equal weight of gold, demanded currency in an amount exceeding
the face of the bond in the same ratio as that borne by the number of grains in the former gold dollar to the number in the
existing one,--or $1.69 of currency for every dollar of the bond..
The Treasury declined to pay him more than the face of the bond
in currency, and he sued in the Court of Claims. Held:
(a) The fact that the Government's repudiation of the gold
clause of the bond is unconstitutional does not entitle the plaintiff
to recover more than the loss he has actually suffered and of which
he may rightfully complain. P. 354.
(b) The Court of Claims has no authority to entertain an action for nominal damages. P. 355.
(c) The question of actual loss cannot be determined without
considering the economic condition at the time when the Government offered to pay the face of the bond in legal tender currency.
P. 355.
(d) Congress, by virtue of its power to deal with gold coin, as
a medium of exchange, was authorized to prohibit its export and
limit its use in foreign exchange; and the restraint thus imposed
upon holders of such coin was incident to their ownership of it and
gave them no cause of action. P. 356.
(e) The Court cannot say that the exercise of this power was
arbitrary or capricious. P. 356.
(f) The holder of a bond of the United States, payable ,in gold
coin of the former standard, so far as concerns the restraint upon
the right to export the gold coin or to engage in transpctions of
foreign exchange, is in no be -r case than the holder of gold coin
itself. P. 356.
(g) In assessing plaintiff's damages, if any, the equivalent in
currency of the gold coin promised can be no more than the
amount of money which the gold coin would be worth to the
plaintiff for the purposes for which it could legally be used. P. 357.
(h) Foreign dealing being forbidden, save under license, and the
domestic market being, not free, but lawfully restricted by Con-

PERRY v. UNITED STATES.
330

Argument for Perry.

gress, valuation of the gold coin would necessarily have regard to
its use as legal tender and as a medium of exchange under a single
monetary system with an established parity of all currency and
coins; and this would involve a consideration of the purchasing
power of the currency dollars. P. 357.
(i) Plaintiff has not attempted to show that, in relation to
buying power, he has sustained any loss; on the contrary, in view
of the adjustment of the internal economy to the single measure of
value as established by the legislation of the Congress, and the
universal availability and use throughout the country of the legal
tender currency in meeting all engagements, the payment to the
plaintiff of the amount which he demands, would appear to constitute not a recoupment of loss in any proper sense, but an unjustified enrichment. P. 357.
Question answered "No."

RESPONSE to questions certified by the Court of Claims
in an action on a Liberty Loan Gold Bond.
Mr. John M. Perry, pro se. Mr. Hersey Egginton was
with him on the brief.
The gold clause prescribes, not the method of payment
but the measure of the obligation.
The Joint Resolution of June 5, 1933, is a direct violation of § 4 of the Fourteenth Amendment, expressly limiting the delegated powers of Congress, and making the
public debt of the United States inviolable at the hands
of Congress.
A legislative interpretation of this provision was
adopted by the first Congress meeting after its ratification,
in the Act of March 18, 1869 (16 Stat. 1). It has never
been necessary to apply the prohibition of this portion of
§ 4, for the reason that, since its adoption and until recently, no attempt has ever been made by Congress to
attack the validity of the public debt. The Joint Resolution of June 5, 1933, is a complete repudiation of the
gold clause in some 18 billion dollars of outstanding
bonds of the United States, and is necessarily a direct
violation of § 4.

334

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Perry.

294 UB.

The history of this part of the Amendment shows that
it was inserted for the specific purpose of protecting for
all time the public debt, intended to be payable in gold
coin or its equivalent, from being made payable, dollar for
dollar, in legal tender currency. See, Phanor J. Elder,
Cornell Law Quarterly, Dec. 1933, pp. 1-19; Thorpe, Const.
Hist., U. S., vol. 3, p. 297; Cong..Globe, May 23, 1866, pp.
2768, 2769; May 29, 1866, p. 2869; June 4, 1866, pp. 2938,
2940, 2941; June 8, 1866, pp. 3040; 3042; June 13, 1866,
pp. 3148, 3149; Kendrick, Journal of the Joint Committee
of Fifteen on Reconstruction (1914), pp. 315, 316; Dunning, Political History of the U. S. During Reconstruction
(1880), pp. 93, 99, 109.
Under the rule of Shreveport v. Cole, 129 U. S. 36, the
Amendment must be construed to operate prospectively.
No provision of the Federal Constitution authorizes
Congress to enact that portion of the Joint Resolution of
June 5, 1933, which purports to abrogate the gold clause
in the claimant's Liberty Bond.
Every federal power must be express, or implied from
some power or group of powers; and any attempted exercise of power not delegated violates the Tenth Amendment. Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304, 326. The
doctrine of inherent sovereignty does not apply to the Federal Government. Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46. Nor
does the Constitution specifically authorize the Federal
Government to alleviate national emergencies. Jacobson
v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11; Ward v. Maryland, 12
Wall. 418; The Federalist, No. 41. While a general scaling down of public indebtedness by making "gold clauses"
inoperative and allowing the United States to pay in inflated currency might be a means of relieving the financial
burden of the Government, neither the- appropriateness
of, nor the necessity for, federal action can create a federal power. Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46; Jacobson v.
Massachusetts,
197 U. S. 11; Ward v. Maryland, 12 Wall.
I

PERRY v. UNITED STATES.
330

335-

Argument for Perry.

418; Keller v. United States, 213 U. S. 138; Linder V.
United States, 268 U. S. 5; Lynch v. United States, 292
U. S. 571. Furthermore, it is constitutional heresy- to
claim that an Act unconstitutional in normal times becomes constitutional because Congress deems that an
emergency exists. The reverse of this doctrine has been
firmly established ever since the Civil War. Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wall. 2; Home Bldg. & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell,
290 U. S. 398; Lynch v. United States, 292 U. S. 571.
No provision in the Constitution authorizes Congress to
provide for the general relief of debtors. The power to
establish "uniform laws on the subject of bankruptcies"
cannot be said to-authorize all measures for the relief of
debtors. That power is limited to laws "for the benefit
and relief of creditors and their debtors, in cases in which
the latter are unwilling or unable to pay their debts."
Story, Const., § 1102 et seq.; United States v. Fox, 95 U. S.
670; United States v. Pusey, Fed. Cas. No. 16,098; In re
Reiman, Fed. Cas. No. 11,673.
The attempted abrogation of the gold clause is not an
exercise of the power "to borrow money on the credit of
the United States." Here, if nowhere else, lies a fundamental distinction between the present statute and the
Legal Tender Acts of 1862. and 1863. Those Acts were
finally sustained as an exercise of the borrowing and currency powers on the theory that the Government was borrowing on the legal tender currency. At the same time a
medium of exchange was provided. These powers were,
therefore, used in direct support of each other. See, Knox
v. Lee, 12 Wall. 457; Juilliardv. Greenman, 110 U. S. 421.
If this Joint Resolution had only invalidated the gold
clauses contained in the obligations of private persons, corporations, States, and municipalities, it might have been
argued that Congress was exercising authority necessarily
incident to the borrowing power in that it was destroying
obligations which affected or interfered with that power.

336

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Perry.

294 U. S.

See, Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533. Even this argument is necessarily refuted by the fact that Congress has
included in the Joint Resolution "obligations of the
United States."
The attempted abrogation does not come within the
scope of the power "to coin money, regulate the value
thereof, and of foreign coin, and fix the standard of weights
and measures." The three cases which have in some
measure defined the extent of the coinage power, hold in
general that it authorizes the establishment of a sound
and uniform national currency. Veazie Bank v. Fenno,
8 Wall. 533; Knox v. Lee, 12 Wall. 457; Juilliardv. Greenman, 110 U. S. 421. These cases, however, do not decide
that Congress may control obligations which are not
currency.
Nor has it ever been decided that Congress may control
obligations not currency on the theory that such obligations affect the value of money. The power is limited
to the issuance and the direct regulation of the kind,
amount and value of currency. Congress has no general
power to regulate and control the kind, quality, amount,
production, or prices of all property. Contract obligations, including obligations to pay money, have always
been recognized to be property within the meaning of this
rule. It has never even been suggested that the currency
power gives Congress authority, to fix the value of any
obligation that does not circulate as money, on the theory
that the value of money is regulated thereby.
The fact that the currency power must be held to be
limited to the direct regulation of the media of exchange
becomes more apparent when § 10 of Art. I is considered.
This clause has'been held merely to prevent the States
from issuing currency and not to prevent the issuance of
"Bills of Credit " which do not circulate as media of
exchange. Its purpose has uniformly been said to be that
of making effective the affirmative power over currency
granted to Congress. Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213;

PERRY v. UNITED STATES.
330

Argument for Perry.

Craig v. Missouri, 4 Pet. 410; Briscoe v. Kentucky Bank,
11 Pet. 257; Darringtonv. Alabama Bank, 13 How. 12;
Poindexter v. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 270; Houston & T. C.
R. Co. v. Texas, 177 U. S. 66.
The abrogation would deprive the claimant of his property without due process of law. That part of the Resolution is unreasonable, arbitrary and capricious; it is not
reasonably appropriate to any legitimate legislative end;
the purpose of its enactment is not comprehended within
the objectives of the powers delegated to Congress.
Congress itself has left no doubt that the enactment
was intended as an exercise of the currency power. The
preamble of the Joint Resolution must be considered as an
official statement of. the facts upon which the specific exercise of power is based and as a declaration of the objects
sought to be attained thereby.
The purpose of the gold clause was to provide a measure of the obligation, and its only possible effect is to fix
the amount of legal tender currency payable in satisfaction thereof. How such provisions "obstruct the power
of the Congress to regulate the value of the money of the
United States, and are inconsistent with the declared policy of the Congress to maintain at all times the equal
power of every dollar," and how their abrogation will
"assure a uniform value to the coins and currencies of the
United States," is difficult to comprehend. There was
not then, nor can there be under existing circumstances,
any disparity between the value of the kinds of currency
lawfully in circulation, and Congress was untrammeled in
its power to issue other forms of currency, to increase or
decrease the amount of money in circulation, to change
the standard, to declare what is and what shall be legal
tender, to prohibit the circulation of unauthorized forms
of currency, or otherwise regulate the value of money.
Furthermore, the second paragraph of the preamble of
the Joint Resolution is misleading. It is there inferred
that this statute is a regulation of the "holding of or deal-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Perry.

294 U. S.

ing in gold," which, it is stated, "affect the public interest
and are therefore subject to proper regulation and restriction; . . ." We do not deny that the "holding of or dealing in gold" may "affect the public interest" and for
that reason be "subject to proper regulation and restriction." Ling Su Fan v. United States, 218 U. S. 302. But
the "holding of or dealing in gold" had already been prohibited. A further regulation, not abrogating or in some
measure altering the former prohibitions, could be of no
effect and could only have been intended to disguise the
real purpose of the Joint Resolution.
Insofar as it purports to abrogate the gold clause in
claimant's bond, the Joint Resolution cannot be considered
a regulation of the value of money. The ordinary means
by which the value of the currency may be, and has been,
regulated is by changing the base at which it had previously been stabilized, or by issuing more currency, thus
creating a greater supply. Congress has also issued a new
form of currency stabilized at a new base, different from
preexisting standards. The present statute does not and
did not, at the time of its enactment, do any of these
things. Gold payments were then, and have since remained, suspended. The outstanding currencies, thus, if
stabilized at all at that time, must be considered to have
been stabilized in terms of one dollar obligations, and these
currencies were and are legal tender, dollar for dollar, in
the payment of dollar obligations. The Joint Resolution
stated, in effect, that both gold and gold-value obligations
were payable, dollar for dollar, in this same currency.
This Resolution, therefore; purported simultaneously to
standardize the unit of currency in terms of dollar, gold
dollar, and gold-value obligations. That this is unreasonable, arbitrary, and capricious and cannot be considered
to be a regulation of the value of currency may easily be
shown.
Claimant's bond by its tenor may be satisfied by the
payment of legal tender money in a sum equal to the

PERRY v. UNITED STATES.
330

Argument for Perry.

gold-value of its face amount. Ordinarily the gold-value
in legal tender currency is no greater than the face amount
of the instrument. When, however, gold payments have
been suspended, gold-value obligations, although they
may still be satisfied by payment in legal tender currency,
remain at par with gold, but, ordinarily, are at a premium
in terms of irredeemable currency. This was the situation when the Joint Resolution was enacted. See index
of Wholesale commodity prices on a gold basis, contained
in The Annalist Weekly, Dec. 14, 1934, p. 817. If this
statute were given effect, an ordinary one dollar obligation and a similar gold-value obligation could both be
satisfied by the payment of the same unit of currency.
This Joint Resolution was, therefore, an attempt simultaneously to stabilize the unit of currency at two obligations for the payment of money, which obligations were
definitely different in value. Manifestly this cannot be
considered to be a regulation of the value of money within
the currency power. Gold-value contracts do not affect
the value of money in any greater measure than do other
money obligations or commodity contracts. Any regulation increasing or decreasing the amount that obligees may
recover from the obligors of gold-value contracts, has no
more effect on the value of the medium of exchange than
would a regulation increasing or decreasing the rights
of obligees of any other classes of contracts to pay money,
or for that matter, the rights of promisees of agreements
for the delivery of commodities. No one would contend
that Congress has the power to lessen the obligation of all
contracts on the theory that it is thereby regulating the
value of money.
. The only possible effect that gold-value contracts may
have on the value of money is by affecting the demand for
money. It is undoubtedly true that if the supply of currency and the rate of circulation were constant, then the
value of money would fluctuate directly as the demand.
The effect upon that demand of the payment in gold-value

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Perry.

294 U. S.

of federal obligations upon the retirement of such obligations, spread over the years of their respective maturities,
would, however, be negligible.
In every contract to be performed in the future, one
or the other of the parties thereto must bear the risk
of loss due to fluctuation in value of the subject of the
contract. In the ordinary contract for the payment of
money, the risk of loss arising from an increase in the
value of money rests upon the debtor; that resulting from
its decrease upon the creditor. Yet it is not to be contended that Congress has power to shift these risks on the
theory that it is regulating the value of money. The
logical extension of this doctrine would be to hold that
Congress could forbid persons from protecting themselves
against risk of loss in any situation, an obvious impossibility; and further, since this risk must fall on someone,
that Congress could, ex post facto, choose the person upon
whom it should fall. The Federal Government, by its own
insertion of the gold clause in claimant's Liberty Bond,
has voluntarily assumed the risk ordinarily borne by the
creditor. It now seeks to transfer to its creditor the loss
caused by its own act of devaluation, the very contingency
which it itself contemplated when it issued the bond.
Claimant further contends that the Joint Resolution,
insofar as it purports to abrogate the gold clause in the
Liberty Bond, will not accomplish, or have a reasonable
relation to, any proper legislative object.
The purpose of the Joint Resolution, in this respect,
was not to execute or make effective any of the powers
granted to Congress, but, under the guise of an exercise
of the currency power, to commit an act of repudiation.
This practice was condemned in McCulloch v. Maryland,
4 Wheat. 316, 423; dissenting opinion, Sinking-Fund
Cases, 99 U. S. 700, 739.
Even if that part of the Joint Resolution which purports to abrogate existing gold clause obligations might in

PERRY v. UNITED STATES.
330

Argument for the United States.

any way be considered to be an exercise of the power "to
coin money, regulate the value thereof," it must, to the
extent that the gold clause in claimant's Liberty Bond is
affected, deprive him of his property without due process
of law and be a violation of the Fifth Amendment.
The claimant in any event is entitled to recover just
compensation for the taking of his property for public
use.

That part of the Resolution which attempts to fix the
just compensation for such taking at "dollar for dollar"
in legal tender would in any event be utterly void, as an
attempted exercise of judicial power by the legislature.
The judicial measure of that just compensation is the
value of the property as of the date of taking.
The value of the property on the date of taking is the
same as the damages claimed for the breach of the express
contract, for the date of breach of contract and the date
of taking is the same. In any case, neither .the breach of
the express contract nor the taking and appropriation by
defendant of claimant's property were complete until the
claimant's bond had been called for redemption and defendant had refused to pay according to the tenor of the
bond. Both of these events happened on May 24, 1934,
when the bond was presented to the Treasury Department for payment. The just compensation is, therefore,
equal in amount to the relief asked for in the petition.
The Court of Claims has jurisdiction.
Mr. Angus MacLea.n, Assistant Solicitor General,
opened the argument for the United States in this case.
Attorney Geiheral Cummings made a closing argument
for this and the two preceding cases. Those who were
with them on the Government's brief were Solictor General Biggs, Assistant Attorney Generat Sweeney, and
Messrs. Alexander Holtzoff and Harry LeRoy Jones. The
brief is here summarized:

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for the United States.

294 U.S.

Justification of the gold clause was removed when the
dual monetary system was ended by the parity provisions.
Bronson v. Rodes, 7 Wall. 229, 251-253.
The gold clause is an obstruction to the power of Congress to maintain the parity of all coins and currencies of
the United States. Besides the holders of some $20,000,000,000 of gold-clause, interest-bearing obligations of the
Federal Government, there were holders of more than
$5,000,000,000 of currency issued or guaranteed by the
United States; gold clauses were contained in or made
with respect to all of this currency. When the Government found it necessary to suspend redemption of currency
in gold, one group of creditors would have been preferred
to another if gold-clause creditors had been allowed to
enforce the asserted obligation of their bonds.
The gold clause is an obstruction to the power of Congress to regulate the value of money. If the gold ciause
had not been abrogated in Government as well as private
obligations, investments like those of the claimant would
have reaped a harvest by the artificial demand created for
Government bonds. If the gold clause in Government
bonds were sustained and construed to entitle the holders
to $1.69 on every dollar face amount of the bond, a tenthousand-dollar gold-clause bond would in 1934 purchase
2.87 times as much as the $10,000 invested in such bond
in 1918.
The gold clause is an obstruction to the power of Congress to borrow money. Bonds in which the gold clause
was allowed to remain would adversely affect the market
for other types of bonds and thereby impair the borrowing
power of the Government.
The gold clause is an interference with the powers of
the Federal Government over international relations, foreign exchange transactions, and foreign commerce.
There does not appear to be any serious doubt as to the
power of Congress to prohibit gold clauses in future obligations. Hepburn v. Griswold, 8 Wall. 603, 615.

PERRY v. UNITED STATES.
330

Argument for the United States.

-

The Joint Resolution, in its application to outstanding
Government bonds, does not violate the due process clause
of the Fifth Amendment. On June 5, 1933, there was no
disparity in value in the United States between the gold
dollar and other coins and currency of the United States.
That being true, the claimant's argument fails.
The Legal Tender Cases are conclusive that §§ 1 and 2
of the Joint Resolution do not violate the Fifth Amendment. The decision in those cases was understood by the
Court, and has since been understood, to sustain the constitutionality of the Legal Tender Acts as applied to public
as well as private debts. 12 Wall. 529, 530, 539, 540, 635;
and Savage's Case, 8 Ct. Cl. 545, affirmed 92 U. S. 382.
Public as well as private obligations may be affected as
a result of action taken within the Federal police power
or some other paramount power. Lynch v. U. S., 292 U. S.
571, 579; Home Bldg. & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290
U. S.398, 435; and Horowitz v. U. S., 267 U. S.458. The
cases which have upheld such action by the State Legislatures, as applied to state obligations, go far to establish
the propriety of similar action by Congress. Atlantic
Coast Line R. Co. v. Goldsboro, 232 U. S.548; Chicago,
B. & Q. R. Co. v. Nebraska, 170 U. S.57; Stone v. Mississippi, 101 U. S.814; Butchers Union Co. v. Crescent City,
111 U. S.746; C., B. & Q. R. Co. v. Drainage Commr's,
200 U. S.561, 592; and Chicago & Alton R. Co. v. Tranbarger, 238 U. S. 67. Legislative powers cannot be expressly contracted away. Newton v. Commr's, 100 U. S.
548; Illinois Central Ry. v. Illinois, 146 U. S.387; Home
Building & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S.398, 436;
Denver & R. G. R. Co. v. Deniver, 250 U. S.241; Stone
v. Mississippi, 101 U. S. 814; N. Y. & N..E. R. Co. v.
Bristol, 151 U. S.556; Boyd v. Alabama, 94 U. S. 645;
Straus v. Amierica? Publishers' Assn., 231 U. S. 222, 243;
United Shoe Machinery Co. v. United States, 258 U. S.
451, 463; North American Co. V. United States, 171 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for the United States.

294 US.

i'10, 137; James Parker Hall, in American Law and Procedure, Volume XII, Constitutional Law, pages 242, 243.
One Congress can no more convey or contract away the
legislative powers entrusted by the Constitution so as to
restrict the exercise of those powers by a subsequent Congress than can a State Legislature. Lynch v. United
States, 292 U. S. 571, 579; North American Co. v. United
States, 171 U. S. 110, 137; United Shoe Machinery Co. v.
United States, 258 U. S. 451, 463.
From the point of view of justice and equity, claimant
is receiving for his bond all that he is entitled to receive
from the Government. The purchasing power of the dollar on June 5, 1933, and on April 15, 1934, when claimant's
bond was called, and at the present time, is far greater
than the purchasing power of the dollar that the Government received when it issued the Liberty Bonds. The
Annalist, Weekly Index of Wholesale Commodity Prices,
December 14, 1934.
The Joint Resolution does not violate § 4 of the Fourteenth Amendment. The word "validity" in § 4 refers
to the essential existence of the obligation, as is shown by
the legislative history. Nov'here in the cases involving
the Legal Tender Acts as applied to public or private obligations is any reference made to this section. The word
"debt," as used in the section, is not to be construed as
including every provision contained in, or made with respect to, an obligation of the United States. The gold
clause is a provision aside from the basic "debt." Bronson v. Rodes, 7 Wall. 229; Butler v. Horwitz, 7 Wall. 258;
Dewing v. Sears, 11 Wall. 379; and Maryland v. Railroad
Co., 22 Wall. 105, 108. Historians who have considered
§ 4 limit its concept of public debt to that public debt existing at the time of 'the adoption of the Amendment.
Burdick, The Law of the American Constitution, § 228;
Dunning, Essays on the Civil War and Reconstruction
(1931), 118; Eriksson & Rowe, American Constitutional

PERRY v. UNITED STATES.
330

Argument for the United States.

History (1933), 301; Flack, The Adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment (1908), 133; Magruder, The Constitution (1933), 328; Story, Constitution, 5th ed., § 1965;
Watson, The Constitution of the United States (1910),
1657; 2 Blaine, "Twenty Years of Congress," 190; Guthrie, The Fourteenth Amendment (1898), 17; 44 Yale L.
J., 53, 85. In any event, it can scarcely be contended
that the limitation placed upon Congress by § 4 of the
Fourteenth Amendment is more stringent than the limitation placed upon the States in the impairment-of-contracts
clause.
The Joint Resolution may not be attacked as a taking
of private property without just compensation. The
claimant confuses the due process and the just compensation clauses of the Fifth Amendment. To frustrate a contract is not to appropriate it. Omnia Commercial Co. v.
U. S., 261 U. S. 502, 508, 513. Even if there was a taking,
it was accomplished by the Joint Resolution on June 5,
1933. There was no drop in the market price of the claimant's bond upon the passage of the Resolution. There is
no allegation that the bond depreciated in value either on
that date or thereafter. The Government has provided
just compensation if any is due; the claimant is entitled
to be put in as good a position pecuniarily as if his property had not been taken, but is not entitled to more. Olson
v. U. S., 292 U. S. 246, 255. The relative market value of
gold-clause and non-gold-clause obligations was not affected by the Joint Resolution. Moreover, if the claimant
had, on June 5, 1933, received gold coin for his bond, he
would have been required by the Orders then in force to
deliver the coin to the United States in exchange for other
coin or the currency of an equivalent amount. The claimant was in no position to secure any asserted "world
price " for any gold held or received by him in the United
States, since the Executive Orders promulgated under the
Act of March 9, 1933, prohibited the export of gold coin

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

from the United States. Such prohibition is constitutional. Ling Su Fan v. U. S., 218 U. S.302. There is no
basis for the contention that compensation must be made
for the increased value of property accruing after the taking.' Olson v. U. S., 292 U. S.246; Brooks-Scanlon Corp.
v. U. S., 265 U. S.106, 123.
The United States, as a contractor, is not liable to respond in damages in the Court of Claims for any breach
of its proprietary and corporate contracts due to its public and general acts as a sovereign. United States v. State
Bank, 96 U. S.30, 36; and Horowitz v. U. S., 267 U. S.458.
Section 1 of the Joint Resolution has the effect of withdrawing the consent of the United States to be sued on
gold clauses. Lynch v. U. S., 292 U. S.571, 580.
Annulment of the gold clause in Government bonds is
no more repudiation than in private obligations. In both
it is regulation rather than repudiation, and as such is an
attribute of sovereignty. Whatever power there is over
the currency is vested in Congress. If the power to declare what is money is not in Congress, it is annihilated.
Legal Tender Cases, supra.
By leave of Court, Messrs. Edward E. Gann and
George C. Johnson filed a brief as amici curiae in support of the eontentions of the United States.
MR. CHIEF JusncE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
The certificate from the Court of Claims shows the
following facts:
Plaintiff brought suit as the owner of an obligation of
the United States for $10,000, known as "Fourth Liberty Loan 41/4% Gold Bond of 1933-1938." This bond
was issued pursuant to the Act of September 24, 1917
(40 Stat. 288), as amended, and Treasury Department
circular No. 121, dated September 28, 1918. The bond

PERRY v. UNITED STATES.
330

Opinion of the Court.

provided: "The principal and interest hereof are payable
in United States gold coin of the present standard of
value."
Plaintiff alleged in his petition that at the time the
bond was issued, and when he acquired it, a dollar in gold
consisted of 25.8 grains of gold .9 fine "; that the bond
was called for redemption on April 15, 1934, and, on
May 24, 1934, was presented for payment; that plaintiff
demanded its redemption "by the payment of 10,000
gold dollars each containing 25.8 grains of gold .9 fine ";
that defendant refused to comply with that demand, and
that plaintiff then demanded "258,000 grains of gold .9
fine, or gold of equivalent value of any fineness, or
16,931.25 gold dollars each containing 15 5/21 grains of
gold .9 fine, or 16,931.25 dollars in legal tender currency ";
that defendant refused to redeem the bond "except by
the payment of 10,000 dollars in legal tender currency ";
that these refusals were based on the Joint Resolution
of the Congress of June 5, 1933 (48 Stat. 113), but that
this enactment was unconstitutional as it operated to deprive plaintiff of his property without due process of
law; and that, by this action of defendant, he was damaged "in the sum of $16,931.25, the value of defendant's
obligation," for which, with interest, plaintiff demanded
judgment.
Defendant demurred upon the ground that the petition
did rot state a cause of action against the United States.
The Court of Claims has certified the following
questions:
"1. Is the claimant, being the holder and owner of a
Fourth Liberty Loan 414% bond of the United States, of
the principal amount of $10,000, issued in 1918, which was
payable on and after April 15, 1934, and which bond
contained a clause that the principal is 'payable in United
States gold coin of the present standard of value,' entitled
to receive from the United States an amount in legal
tender currency in excess of the face amount of the bond?

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U.S.

"2. Is the United States, as obligor in a Fourth Liberty Loan 41/4% gold bond, Series of 1933-1938, as stated
in Question One, liable to respond in damages in a suit in
the Court of Claims on such bond as an express contract,
by reason of the change in or impossibility of performance
in accordance with the tenor thereof, due to the provisions
of Public Resolution No. 10, 73rd Congress, abrogating
the gold clause in all obligations?"
First. The import of the obligation. The bond in suit
differs from an obligation of private parties, or of States
or municipalities, whose contracts are necessarily made in
subjection to the dominant power of the Congress. Norman v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., decided this day, ante,
p. 240. The bond now before us is an obligation of the
United States. *Theterms of the bond are explicit. They
were not only expressed in the bond itself, but they were
definitely prescribed by the Congress. The Act of September 24, 1917, both in its original .and amended form,
authorized the moneys to be borrowed, and the bonds to
be issued, "on the credit of the United States" in order
to meet expenditures needed ",for the national security
and defense and other public purposes authorized by law."
40 Stat. 288, 503. The circular of the Treasury Department of September 28, 1918, to which the bond refers
"for a statement of the further rights of the holders of
bonds of said series," also provided that the principal and
interest "are payable in United States gold coin of the
present standard of value."
This obligation must be fairly construed. The "present standard of value" stood in contradistinction to a
lower standard of value. The promise obviottsly was Intended to afford protection against loss. That protection
was sought to be secured by setting up a standard or measure of the Government's obligation. We think that the
reasonable import of the promise is that it was intended

PERRY v. UNITED STATES.
330

Opinion of the Court.

to assure one who lent his money to the Government and
took its bond that he would not suffer loss through depreciation in the medium of payment.
The Government states in its brief that the total unmatured interest-bearing obligations of the United States
outstanding on May 31, 1933, (which it is understood
contained a "gold clause" substantially the same as that
of the bond in suit,) amounted to about twenty-one billions of dollars. From statements at the bar, it appears
that this amount has been reduced to approximately
twelve billions at the present time, and that during the intervening period the public debt of the United States has
risen some seven billions (making a total of approximately twenty-eight billions five hundred millions) by
the issue of some sixteen billions five hundred millions
of dollars "of non-gold-clause obligations."
Second. The binding quality of the obligation. The
question is necessarily presented whether the Joint Resolution of June 5, 1933 (48 Stat. 113) is a valid enactment so far as it applies to the obligations of the United
States. The Resolution declared that provisions requiring
"payment in gold or a particular kind of coin or currency"
were "against public policy," and provided that "every
obligation, heretofore or hereafter incurred, whether or
not any such provision is contained therein)" shall be discharged "upon payment, dollar for dollar, in any coin or
currency which at the time of payment is legal tender for
public and private debts." This enactment was expressly
extended to obligations of the United States, and provisions for payment in gold, "contained in any law authorizing obligations to be issued by or under authority of the
United States," were repealed.1
"And subdivision (b) of § 1 of the Joint Resolution of June 5,
1933, provided: "As used in this resolution, te term 'obligation'
means an obligation (including every obligation of and to the United
States, excepting currency) payable in money of the United 9tates;

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U.S.

There is no question as to the power of the Congress to
regulate the value of money, that is, to establish a monetary system and thus to determine the currency of the
country. The question is whether the Congress can use
that power so as to invalidate the terms of the obligations
which the Government has theretofore issued in the exercise of the power to borrow money on the credit of the
United States. In attempted justification of the Joint
Resolution in relation to the outstanding bonds of the
United States, the. Government argues that "earlier Congresses could not validly restrict the 73rd Congress from
exercising its constitutional powers to regulate the value
of money, borrow money, or regulate foreign and interstate commerce "; and, from this premise, the Government seems to deduce the. proposition that when, with
adequate authority, the Government borrows money and
pledges the credit of the United States, it is free to ignore
that pledge and alter the terms of its obligations in case
a later Congress finds their fulfillment inconvenient. The
Government's contention thus raises a question of far
greater importance than the particular claim of the plaintiff. On that reasoning, if the terms of the Government's
bond as to the standard of payment can be repudiated, it
inevitably follows that the obligation as to the amount to
be paid may also be repudiated. The contention necessarily imports that the Congress can disregard the obligations of the Government at its discretion and that, when
the Government borrows money, the credit of the United
States is an illusory pledge.
We do not so read the Constitution. There is a clear
distinction between the power of the Congress to control
or interdict the contracts of private parties when they
interfere with the exercise of its constitutional authority,
and the term 'coin or currency' means coin or currency of the
United States, including Federal Reserve notes and circulating notes
of Federal Reserve banks and national banking associations."

PERRY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

330

and the power of the Congress to alter or repudiate the
substance of its own engagements when it has borrowed
money under the authority which the Constitution confers. In authorizing the Congress to borrow money, the
Constitution empowers the Congress to fix the amount to
be borrowed and the terms of payment. By virtue of.
the power to borrow money" on the credit of the United
States," the Congress is authorized to pledge that credit
as an assurance of payment as stipulated,-as the highest
assurance the Government can give, its plighted faith.
To say that the Congress may withdraw or ignore that
pledge, is to assume that the Constitution contemplates
a vain promise, a pledge having no other sanction than
the pleasure and convenience of the pledgor. This Court
has given no sanction to such it conception of the obligations of our Government.
The binding quality of the obligations of the Government was considered in the Sinking-Fund Cases, 99 U. S.
700, 718, 719. The question before the Court in those
cases was whether certain action was warranted by a
reservation to the Congress of the right to amend the
charter 6f a railroad company. While the particular action was sustained under this right of amendment, the
Court took occasion to state emphatically the obligatory
character of the contracts of the United States. The
Court said: "The United States are as much bound by
their contracts as are individuals. If they repudiate their
obligations, it is as much repudiation, with all the wrong
and reproach that term implies, as it would be if the
repudiator had been a State or a municipality or a citizen.

2

Mr. Justice Strong, who had written the opinion of the majority
of the Court in the legal'tender cases (Knox v. Lee, 12 Wall. 457),
dissented in the Sinking-Fund Cases, 99 U. S. p. 731, because he
thought that the.action of the Congress was not consistent with the
Government's engagement and hence was a transgression of legislative

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

When the United States, with constitutional authority,
makes contracts, it has rights and incurs responsibilities
similar to those of individuals who are parties to such
instruments. There is no difference, said the Court in
United States v. Bank of the Metropolis, 15 Pet. 377, 392,
except that the United States cannot be sued without
its consent: See, also, The Floyd Acceptances, 7 Wall.
666, 675; Cooke v. United States, 91 U. S. 389, 396. In
Lynch v. United States, 292 U. S.571, 580, with respect
to an attempted abrogation by the Act of March 20, 1933
(48 Stat. 8, 11) of certain outstanding war risk insurance
policies, which were contracts of the United States, the
Court quoted with approval the statement in the SinkingFund Cascs, supra, and said: " Punctilious fulfillment
of contractual obligations is essential to the maintenance of the credit of public as well as private debtors.
No doubt there was in March, 1933, great need of economy. In the administration of all government business
economy had become urgent because of lessened revenues
and the heavy obligations to be issued in the hope of
relieving widespread distress. Congress was free to reduce
gratuities deemed excessive. But Congress was*without
power to reduce expenditures by abrogating contractual
obligations of the United States. To abrogate contracts,
in the attempt to lessen government expenditure, would
power. And with respect to the sanctity of the contracts of the
Government, he quoted, with approval, the opinion of Mr. Hamilton
in his communication to the Senate of January 20, 1795 (citing 3
Hamilton's Works, 518, 519), that "when a government enters into a
contract with an individual, it deposes, as to the matter of the contract, its constitutional authority, and exchanges the character of
legislator for that of a moral agent, with the same rights and obligations as an individual. Its promises may be justly considered as
excepted out of its power to legislate unless in aid of them. It is in
theory impossible to reconcile the idea of a promise which obliges,
with the power to make a law which can vary the effect of it."

PERRY v. UNITED STATES.
330

Opinion of the Court.

be not the practice of economy, but an act of repudiation."
The argument in favor of the Joint Resolution, as applied to government bonds, is in substance that the Government cannot by contract restrict the exercise of a sovereign power. But the right to make binding obligations
is a competence attaching to sovereignty.! In the United
States, sovereignty resides in the people, who act through
the organs established by the Constitution. Chisholm v.
Georgia, 2 Dall. 419, 471; Penhallow v. Doane's Administrators,3 Dall. 54, 93; McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat.
316, 404, 405; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, 370.
The Congress as the instrumentality of sovereignty is
endowed with certain powers to be exerted on behalf
of the people in the manner and with the effect the Constitution ordains. The Congress cannot invoke the sovereign power of the people to override their will as thus
declared. The powers conferred upon the Congress are
harmonious. The Constitution gives to the Congress the
power to borrow money on the credit of the United States,
an unqualified power, a power vital to the Government,upon which in an extremity its very life may depend.
The binding quality of the promise of the United States
is of the essence of the credit which is so pledged. Having
this power to authorize the issue of definite obligations
for the payment of money borrowed, the Congress has not
been vested with authority to alter or destroy those obli'Oppenhvim, International Law, 4th ed., vol. 1., §§ 493, 494. This
is recognized in the field of international engagements. Although
there may be no judicial procedure by which such contracts may be
enforced in the absence of the consent of the sovereign to be sued, the
engagement validly made by a sovereign state is not without legal
force, as readily appears if the jurisdiction to entertain a controversy
with respect to the performance of the engagement is conferred upon
an international tribunal. -Hall, International Law, 8th ed., § 107;
Oppenheim, loc. cit.; Hyde, International Law, vol. 2, § 489.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

gations. The fact that the United States may not be
sued without its consent is a matter of procedure which
does not affect the legal and binding character of its contracts. While the Congress is under no duty to provide
remedies through the courts, the contractual obligation
still exists and, despite infirmities of procedure, remains
binding upon the conscience of the sovereign. Lynch v.
United States, supra, pp. 580, 582.
The Fourteenth Amendment, in its fourth section,
explicitly declares: "The validity of the public debt of
the United States, authorized by law, . . . shall not be
questioned."
While this provision was undoubtedly
inspired by the desire to put beyond question the obligations of the Government issued during the Civil. War,
its language indicates a broader connotation. We regard
it as confirmatory of a fundamental principle, which
applies as well to the government bonds in question, and
to others duly authorized by the Congress, as to those
issued before the Amendment was adopted. Nor can we
perceive any reason for not considering the expression
"the validity of the public debt" as embracing whatever concerns the integrity of the public obligations.
We conclude that the Joint Resolution of June 5, 1933,
in so far as it attempted to override the obligation created
by the bond in suit, went beyond the congressional power.
Third. The question of damages. In this view of the
binding quality of the Government's obligations, we come
to the question as to the plaintiff's right to recover damages. That is a distinct question. Because the Government is not at liberty to alter or repudiate its obligations, it does not follow that the claim advanced by the
plaintiff should be sustained. The action is for breach
of contract. As a remedy for breach, plaintiff can recover
no more than the loss he has suffered and of which he
may rightfully complain. He is not entitled to be en-

PERRY v. UNITED STATES.
330

Opinion of the Court.

riched. Plaintiff seeks judgment for $16,931.25, in present legal tender currency, on his bond for $10,000. The
question is whether he has shown damage to that extent,
or any actual damage, as the Court of Claims has no
authority to entertain an action for nominal damages.
Grant v. United States, 7 Wall. 331, 338; Marion & R. V.
Ry. Co. v. United States, 270 U. S. 280, 282; Nortz v.
United States, decided this day, ante, p. 317.
Plaintiff computes his claim for $16,931.25 by taking
the weight of the gold dollar as ,fixed by the President's
proclamation of January 31, 1934, under the Act of May
12, 1933 (48 Stat. 52, 53), as amended by the Act of
January 30, 1934 (48 Stat. 342), that is, at 15 5/21 grains
nine-tenths fine, as compared with the weight fixed by
the Act of March 14, 1900 (31 Stat. 45), or 25.8 grains
nine-tenths fine. But the change in the weight of the
gold dollar did not necessarily cause loss to the plaintiff
of the amount claimed. The question of actual loss cannot fairly be determined without considering the economic
situation at the time the Government offered to pay him
the $10,000, the face of his bond, in legal tender currency.
The case is not the same as if gold coin had remained in
circulation. That was the situation at the time of the decisions under the legal tender acts of 1862 and 1863.
Bronson v. Rodes, 7 Wail. 229, 251; Trebilcock v. Wilson,
12 Wall. 687, 695; Thompson v. Butler, 95 U. S. 694, 696,
697. Before the change in the weight of the gold dollar in
1934, gold coin had been withdrawn from circulation.'
The Congress had authorized the prohibition of the exportation of gold coin and the placing of restrictions upon
transactions in foreign exchange. Acts of March 9, 1933,
'In its Report of May ?7, 1933, it was stated by the Senate Committee on Banking and Currency: "By the Emergency Banking Act
and the existing Executive Orders gold is not now paid, or obtainable
for payment, on obligations public or private." Sen. Rep. No. 99,
73d Cong., 1st sess.

356

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

48 Stat. 1; January 30, 1934, 48 Stat. 337. Such dealings
-could be had only for limited purposes and under license.
Executive Orders of April 20, 1933, August 28, 1933, and
January 15, 1934; Regulations of the Secretary of the
Treasury, January 30 and 31, 1934. That action the
Congress was entitled to take by virtue of its authority
to deal with gold coin as a medium of exchange. And the
restraint thus imposed upon holders of gold coin was incident to the limitations which inhered in their ownership
of that coin and gave them no right of action. Ling Su
Fan v. United States, 218 U. S. 302, 310, 311. The Court
said in that case: "Conceding the title of the owner of
such coins, yet there is attached to such ownership those
limitations which public policy may require by reason of
their quality as a legal tender and as a medium of exchange. These limitations are due to the fact that public
law gives to such coinage a value which does not attach as
a mere consequence of intrinsic value. Their quality as
a legal tender is an attribute of law aside from their bullion value. They bear, therefore, the impress of sovereign
power which fixes value and authorizes their use and
exchange. . . . However unwise a law may be, aimed at
the exportation of such coins, in the face of the axioms
against obstructing the free flow of commerce, there can
be no serious doubt that the power to coin money includes
the power to prevent its outflow from the country of its
origin." The same reasoning is applicable to the imposition of restraints upon transactions in foreign exchange.
We cannot say, in view of the conditions that existed, that
the Congress, having this power, exercised it arbitrarily
or capriciously. And the holder of an obligation, or bond,
of the United States, payable in gold coin of the former
standard, so far as the restraint upon the right to export
gold coin or to engage in transactions in foreign exchange
is concerned, was in no better case than the holder of gold
coin itself.

PERRY v. UNITED STATES.
330

Opinion of the Court.

In considering what damages, if any, the plaintiff has
sustained by the alleged breach of his bond, it is hence
inadmissible to assume that he was entitled to obtain gold
coin for recourse to foreign markets, or for dealings in
foreign exchange, or for other purposes contrary to the
control over gold coin which the Congress had the power
to exert, and had exerted, in its monetary regulation.
Plaintiff's damages could not be assessed without regard
to the internal economy of the country at the time the
alleged breach occurred. The discontinuance of gold payments and the establishment of legal tender currency on
a standard unit of value with which " all forms of money"
of the United States were to be "maintained at a parity,"
had a controlling influence upon the domestic economy.
It was adjusted to the new basis. A free domestic market for gold was non-existent.
Plaintiff demands the "equivalent " in currency of the
gold coin promised. But "equivalent" cannot mean more
than the amount of money which the promised gold coin
would be worth to the bondholder for the purposes for
which it could legally be used. That equivalence or worth
could not properly be ascertained save in the light of the
domestic and restricted market which the Congress had
lawfully established. In the domestic transactions to
which the plaintiff was limited, in the absence of special
license, determination of the value of the gold coin would
necessarily have regard to its use as legal tender and as a
medium of exchange under a single monetary system with
an established parity of all currency and coins. And in
view of the control of export and foreign exchange, and
the restricted domestic use, the question of value, in relation to transactions legally available to the plaintiff,
would require a consideration of the purchasing power of
the dollars which the plaintiff could have received. Plaintiff has not shown, or attempted to show, that. in relation
to buying power he has sustained any loss whatever. On

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
STONE,

J., concurring.

294 U. S.

the contrary, in view of the adjustment of the internal
economy to the single measure of value as established by
the legislation of the Congress, and the universal availability and use throughout the country of the legal tender
currency in meeting all engagements, the payment to the
plaintiff of the amount which he demands would appear
to constitute not a recoupment of loss in any proper sense
but an unjustified enrichment.
Plaintiff seeks to make his case solely upon the theory
that by reason of the change in the weight of the dollar
he is entitled to one dollar and sixty-nine cents in the
present currency for every dollar promised by the bond,
regardless of any actual loss he has suffered with respect
to any transaction in which his dollars may be used. We
think that position is untenable.
In the view that the facts alleged by the petition fail to
show a cause of action for actual damages, the first question submitted by the Court of Claims is answered in the
negative. It is not necessary to answer the second question.
Question No. 1 is answered "No."
MR. JUSTICE STONE,

concurring.

I agree that the answer to the first question is "No,"
but I think our opinion should be confined to answering
that question and that it should essay an answer to no
other.
I do not doubt that the gold clause in the Government
bonds, like that in the private contracts just considered,
calls for the payment of value in money, measured by a
stated number of gold dollars of the standard defined in
the clause, Feist v. Soci~t6 Intercommunale Belge d'Electricitg, [1934] A. C. 161, 170-173; Serbian and Brazilian
Bond Cases, P. C. I. J., series A., Nos. 20-21, pp. 32-34,
109-119. In the absence of any further exertion of governmental power, that obligation plainly could not be

PERRY v. UNITED STATES.
330

STONE,

J., concurring.

satisfied by payment of the same number of dollars, either
specie or paper, measured by a gold dollar of lesser weight,
regardless of their purchasing power or the state of our
internal economy at the due date.
I do not understand the Government to contend that
it is any the less bound by the obligation than a private
individual would be, or that it is free to disregard it
except in the exercise of the constitutional power "to coin
money " and "regulate the value thereof." In any case,
there is before us no question of default apart from the
regulation by Congress of the use of gold as currency.
While the Government's refusal to make the stipulated
payment is a measure taken in the exercise of that power,
this does not disguise the fact that its action is to that
extent a repudiation of its undertaking. As much as I
deplore this refusal to fulfill the solemn promise of bonds
of the United States, I cannot escape the conclusion,
announced for the Court, that in the situation now presented, the Government, through the exercise of its sovereign power to regulate the value of money, has rendered itself immune from liability for its action. To that
extent it has relieved itself of the obligation of its domestic bonds, precisely as it has relieved the obligors of
private bonds in Norman v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co.,
decided this day, ante, p. 240.
In this posture of the case it is unnecessary, anl I
think undesirable, for the Court to undertake to say that
the obligation of the gold clause in Government bonds is
greater than in the bonds of private individuals, or that
in some situation not described, and in some manner and
in some measure undefined, it has imposed restrictions
upon the future exercise of the power to regulate the
currency. I am not persuaded that we should needlessly
intimate any opinion which implies that the obligation
may so operate, for example, as to interpose a serious
obstacle to the adoption of measures for stabilization of

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
STO

, J., concurring.

294 U. S.

the dollar, should Congress think it wise to accomplish
that purpose by resumption of gold payments, in dollars
of the present or any other gold content less than that
specified in the gold clause, and by the re-establishment
of a free market for gold and its free exportation.
There is no occasion now to resolve doubts, which I
entertain, with respect to these questions. At present
they are academic. Concededly they may be transferred
wholly to the realm of speculation by the exercise of the
undoubted power of the Government to withdraw the
privilege of 'suit upon its gold clause obligations. We
have just held that the Court of Claims was without
power to entertain the suit in Nortz v. United States,
ante, p. 317, because, regardless of the nature of
the obligation of the gold certificates, there was
no damage. Here it is declared that there is no
damage because Congress, by the exercise of its
power to regulate the currency, has made it impossible for the plaintiff to enjoy the benefits of gold
payments promised by the Government. It would seem
that this would suffice to dispose of the present case,
without attempting to prejudge the rights of other bondholders and of the Government under other conditions
which may never occur. It will not benefit this plaintiff,
te whom we deny any remedy, to be assured that he has
an inviolable right' to performance of the gold clause.
Moreover, if the gold clause be viewed as a gold value
contract, as it is in Norman v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co.,
supra, it is to be noted that the Government has not prohibited the free use by the bondholder of the paper inoney
equivalent of the gold clause obligation; it is the prohibition, by the Joint Resolution of Congress, of payment
of the increased number of depreciated dollars required
to make up the full, equivalent, which.alone bars recovery.

GOLD CLAUSE CASES.
330

Dissenting Opinion.

In that case it would seem to be implicit in our decision
that the prohibition, at least in the present situation, is
itself a constitutional exercise of the power to regulate the
value of money.
I therefore do not join in so much of the opinion as may
be taken to suggest that the exercise of the sovereign
power to borrow money on credit, which does not override
the sovereign immunity from suit, may nevertheless preclude or impede the exercise of another sovereign power,
to regulate the value of money; or to suggest that although there is and can be no present cause of action upon
the repudiated gold clause, its obligation is nevertheless,
in some manner and to some extent, not stated, superior
to the power to regulate the currency which we now hold
to be superior to the obligation of the bonds.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND, and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

dissent.

See below.

In the four preceding "Gold Clause Cases," viz., Norman v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., and United States v.
Bankers Trust Co., ante, p. 240; Nortz v. United States,
ante, p. 317; and Perry v. United States, ante, p. 330, a
single dissenting opinion was delivered, immediately after
the handing down of the opinion in'the Perry case. It is
as follows:
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, dissenting.
MR. JUSTICE VAN

DEvANTER, MR. JUSTICE SUTHER-

LAND, MR. JUSTICE BUTLER and I conclude that, if given

effect, the enactments here challenged will bring about
confiscation of property rights and repudiation of national
obligations. Acquiescence in the decisions just an-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Dissenting Opinion.

294 U.S.

nounced is impossible; the circumstances demand statement of our views. "To let oneself slide down the easy
slope offered by the course of events and to dull one's
mind against the extent of the danger, . . . that is precisely to fail in one's obligation of responsibility."
Just men regard repudiation and spoliation of citizens
by their sovereign with abhorrence; but we are asked to
affirm that the Constitution has granted power to accomplish both. No definite delegation of such a power exists;
and we cannot believe the farseeing framers, who labored
with hope of establishing justice and securing the blessings of liberty, intended that the expected government
should have authority to annihilate its own obligations
and destroy the very rights which they were endeavoring
to protect. Not only is there no permission for such actions; they are inhibited. And no plenitude of words
can conform them to our charter.
The Federal government is one of delegated and limited
powers which derive from the Constitution. "It can
exercise only the powers granted to it." Powers claimed
must be denied unless granted; and, as with other writings, the whole of the Constitution is for consideration
when one seeks to ascertain the meaning of any part.
By the so-called gold clause--promise to pay in
"United States gold coin of the present standard of
value," or "of or equal to the present standard of weight'
and fineness "-found in very many private and public
obligations, the creditor agrees to accept and the debtor
undertakes to return the thing loaned or its equivalent.
Thereby.each secures protection, one against decrease in
value of the currency, the other against an increase.
The clause is not new or obscure or discolored by any
sinister purpose. For more .than 100 years our citizens
have employed a like agreement. During the War between the States, its equivalent "payable in coin" aided

GOLD CLAUSE CASES.
240

Dissenting Opinion.

in surmounting financial difficulties. From the housetop
men proclaimed its merits while bonds for billions were
sold to support the World War. The Treaty of Versailles
recognized it as appropriate and just. It appears in the
obligations which have rendered possible our great undertakings--public-works, railroads, buildings.
Under the interpretation accepted here for many years,
this clause expresses a definite enforceable contract. Both
by statute and long use the United States have approved
it. Over and over again they have enjoyed the added
value which it gave to their obligations. So late as May
2,1933 they issued to the public more than $550,000,000
of their notes each of which carried a solemn promise to
pay in standard gold coin. (Before that day this coin
had in fact been withdrawn from circulation, but the
statutory measure of value remained the gold dollar of
25.8 grains.)
The. Permanent Court of International JusLice interpreted the clause as this Court had done and upheld it.
Cases of Serbian and Brazilian Loans, Publications P. C.
I. J., Series A, Nos. 20-21 (1929). It was there declared:
"The gold clause merely prevents the borrower from
availing itself of a possibility of discharge of the debt in
depreciated currency," and "The treatment of the gold
clause as indicating a mere modality of payment, without
reference to a gold standard of value, would be, not. to
construe but to destroy it."
In Feist v. Socigt6 Intercommunale Belge d'Electricitg,
(1934), A. C. 161, the House of Lords expressed like
views.
Gregory v. Morris, (1878) 96 U. S.619, 624, 625-last
of similar causes-construed and sanctioned this stipulation. In behalf of all, Chief Justice Waite there said:
"The obligation secured by the mortgage or lien under
which Morris held was for the payment of gold coin, or,
as was said in Bronson v. Rodes, 7 Wall. [1869] 229, 'an

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Dissenting Opinion.

294 US.

agreement to deliver a certain weight of standard gold, to
be ascertained by a count of coins, each of which is
certified to contain a definite proportion of that weight'
and isnot distinguishable 'from a contract to deliver an
equal weight of bullion of equal fineness.' ...
We
think it clear, that, under such circumstances, it was within the power of the Court so far as Gregory was concerned,
to treat the contract as one for the delivery of so much
gold bullion; and, if Morris was willing to accept a judgment which might be discharged in currency, to have his
damages estimated according to the currency value of
bullion."
Earlier cases-Bronson v. Rodes, 7 Wall. 229; Butler v.
Horwitz, 7 Wall. 258; Dewing v. Sears, 11 Wall. 379;
Trebilcock v. Wilson, 12 Wall. 687; Thompson v. Butler,
95 U. S. 694-while important, need not be dissected.
Gregory v. Morris is in harmony with them and the opinion there definitely and finally stated the doctrine which
we should apply.
It is true to say that the gold clauses "were intended
to afford a definite standard or measure of value, and thus
to protect against a depreciation of the currency and
against the discharge of the obligation by payment of
less than that prescribed." Furthermore, they furnish
means for computing the sum payable in currency if
gold should become unobtainable. The borrower agrees
to repay in gold coin containing 25.8 grains to the dollar;
and if this cannot be secured the promise is to discharge
the obligation by paying for each dollar loaned the currency value of that number of grains. Thus, the purpose
of the parties will be carried out. Irrespective of any
change in currency, the thing loaned or an equivalent will
be returned-nothing more, nothing less. The present
currency consists of promises to pay dollars of 15 5/21
grains; the Government procures gold bullion on that

GOLD CLAUSE CASES.
240

Dissenting Opinion.

basis. The calculation to determine the damages for
failure to pay in gold would not be difficult. Gregory v.
Morris points the way.
Under appropriate statutes the United States for many
years issued gold certificates, in the following form: "This
certifies that there have been deposited in the Treasury
of The United States of America One Thousand Dollars
in gold coin payable to the bearer on demand. This certificate is a legal tender in the amount thereof in payment
of all debts and dues public and private."
The certificates here involved-series 1928-were issued
under § 6, Act Mar. 14, 1900, 31 Stat. 47, as amended.
See U. S. C. Title 31, § 429.'
In view of the statutory direction that gold coin for
which certificates are issued shall be held for their payment on demand "and used for no other purpose," it
seems idle to argue (as counsel for the United States did)
that other use is permissible under the ancient Act of
March 3; 1863.
By various orders of the President and the Treasury
from April 5 to December 28, 1933, persons holding gold
certificates were required to deliver them, and accept "an
equivalent amount of any form of coin or currency coined
'In his Annual Report, 1926, 80, 81, theSecretary of-the Treasury
said: "Gold and silver certificates are in fact mere 'warehouse receipts' issued by the Government in exchange for gold coin or bullion
deposited in the one case, or standard silver dollars deposited in the
other case, or against gold or standard silver dollars, respectively,
Gold cerwithdrawn from the general fund of the Treasury. ...
tificates, United States notes, Treasury notes of 1890, and Federal
reserve notes are directly redeemable in gold." In his letter with the
Annual Report, for 1933, 375, he showed that on June 30, 1933,
$1,230,717,109 was held in trust against gold certificates and Treasury
notes of 1890. The Treasury notes of 1890 then outstanding did not
exceed about $1,350,000. Tr, Rep. 1926, 80.

OCTOBER TERM, 1394.
Disaenting Opinion.

-294 US.

or issued under the laws of the United States designated
by the Secretary of the Treasury." Heavy penalties were
provided for failure to comply.
That the holder of one of these certificates was owner of
an express promise by the United States to deliver gold
coin of the 'weight and fineness established by statute
when the certificate issued, or if such demand was not
honored to pay the holder the value in the currency then
in use, seems clear enough. This was the obvious design
of the contract.
The Act of March 14, 1900, 31 Stat., c. 41, 45, 47, as
amended, in effect until January 31, 1934, provided:
"That the dollar consisting of twenty-five and eighttenths grains of gold nine-tenths fine, . . . shall be the

standard unit of value, and all forms of money issued or
coined by the United States shall be maintained at a
parity of value with this standard," and also "The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed to receive
deposits of gold coin with the Treasurer .

.,

. in sums of

not less than twenty dollars, and to issue gold certificates
therefor in denominations of not less than twenty dollars,
and the coin so deposited shall be retained in the Treasury
and held for the payment of such certificates on demand,
and used for no other purpose." See U. S. C., Title 31,
§§ 314, 429.
The Act of February 4, 1910, 36 Stat., c. 25, p. 192,
directed " that any bonds and certificates of indebtedness of the United States hereafter issued shall be payable, principal and interest, in United States gold coin of
the present standard of value."
By Executive Orders, April 5, and April 20, 1933, the
President undertook to require owners of gold coin, gold
bullion, and gold certificates, to deliver them on or before May 1st to a Federal Reserve Bank, and to prohibit the exportation of gold coin, gold bullion or gold

GOLD CLAUSE CASES.
240

Dissenting Opinion.

certificates. As a consequence the United States were
off the gold standard and their paper money began a
rapid decline in the markets of the world. Gold coin,
gold certificates and gold bullion were no longer obtainable. "Gold is not now paid nor is it available for
payment upon public or private debts" was declared
in Treasury statement of May 27, 1933; and-this is still
true. All gold coins have been melted into bars.
The Agricultural Adjustment Act of May 12, 1933, 48
Stat., c. 25, pp. 31, 52, 53-entitled "An act to relieve
the existing national economic emergency by increasing
agricultural purchasing power, to raise revenue for
extraordinary expenses incurred by reason of such
emergency, to provide emergency relief with respect to
agricultural indebtedness, to provide for the orderly
liquidation of joint-stock land banks, and for other purposes," by § 43 provides that "Such notes [United States
notes] and all other coins and currencies heretofore or
hereafter coined or issued by or under the authority of
the United States shall be legal tender for all debts public and private." Also, that the President by proclamation may "fix the weight of the gold dollar . . . as he
finds necessary from his investigation to stabilize domestic
prices or to protect the foreign commerce against the
adverse effect of depreciated foreign currencies." And
further, "such gold dollar, the weight of which is so
fixed, shall be the standard unit of value, and all forms
of money issued or coined by the United States shall
be maintained at a parity with this standard and it.
shall be the duty of the Secretry of the Treasury to
maintain such parity, but in no event shall the weight
of the gold dollar be fixed so as to reduce its present
weight by more than 50 per centum."
The Gold Reserve Act of January 30, 1934, 48 Stat.,
c. 6, p. 337, 342, undertook to ratify preceding Presidential orders and proclamations requiring surrender of gold

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Dissenting Opinion.

294 U.S.

but prohibited him from establishing the weight of the
gold dollar "at more than 60 per centum of its present
weight." By proclamation, January 31, 1934, he directed
that thereafter the standard should contain 15 5/21 grains
of gold, nine-tenths fine. (The weight had been 25.8
grains since 1837.) No such dollar has been coined at
any time.
On June 5, 1933, Congress passed a "Joint Resolution
to assure uniform value to the coins and currencies of the
United States." 48 Stat., c. 48, p. 112. This recited that
holding and dealing in gold affect the public interest and
are therefore subject to regulation; that the provisions
of obligations which purport to give the obligee the right
to require payment in gold coin or in any amount of
money of the United States measured thereby obstruct
the power of Congress to regulate the value of money and
are inconsistent with the policy to maintain the equal
value of every dollar coined or issued. It then declared
that every provision in any obligation purporting to give
the obligee a right to require payment in gold is against
public policy, and directed that "every obligation, heretofore or hereafter incurred, whether or not any such
provision is contained therein or made with respect thereto, shall be discharged upon payment, dollar for dollar,
in any coin or currency which at the time of payment is
legal tender for public and private debts."
Four causes are here for decision. Two of them arise
out of corporate obligations containing gold clauses-railroad bonds. One is based on a United States Fourth
Liberty Loan bond of 1918, called for payment April 15,
1934, containing a promise to pay "in United States gold
coin of the present standard of value" with interest in
like gold coin. Another involves gold certificates, series
1928, amounting to $106,300.

GOLD CLAUSE CASES.
240

-

Dissenting Opinion.

As to the corporate bonds the defense is that the gold
clause was destroyed by the Resolution of June 5, 1933;
and this view is sustained by the majority of the Court.
It is insisted that the agreement in the Liberty Bond,
to pay in gold, also was destroyed by the Act of June 5,
1933. This view is rejected by the majority; but they
seem to conclude that because of the action of Congress
in declaring the holding of gold unlawful, no appreciable
damage resulted when payment therein or the equivalent
was denied.
Concerning the gold certificates it is ruled that if upon
presentation for redemption gold coin had been paid to
the holder, as promised, he would have been required to
return this to the Treasury. He could not have exported
it or dealt with it. Consequently he sustained no actual
damage.
There is no challenge here of the power of Congress to
adopt such proper "Monetary Policy" as it may deem
necessary in order to provide for national obligations and
furnish an adequate medium of exchange for public use.
The plan under review in the Legal Tender Cases was
declared within the limits of the Constitution, but not
without a strong dissent. The conclusions there announced are not now questioned; and any abstract discussion of Congressional power over money would only
tend to befog the real issue.
The fundamental problem now presented is whether recent statutes passed by Congress in respect of money and
credits, were designed to attain a legitimate end. Or
whether, under the guise of pursuing a monetary policy,
Congress really has inaugurated a plan primarily designed
to destroy private obligations, repudiate national debts
and drive into the Treasury all gold within the country,
in exchange for inconvertible promises to pay, of much
less value.

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Dissenting Opinion.

294 U.S.

Considering all the circumstance§, we must conclude
they show that the plan disclosed is of the latter description and its enforcement would deprive the parties before
us of their rights under the Constitution. Consequently
the Court should do what it can to afford adequate relief.
What has been already said will suffice to indicate the
nature of these causes and something of our general views
concerning the intricate problems presented. A detailed
consideration of them would require much time and elaboration; would greatly extend this opinion. Considering
also the importance of the result to legitimate commerce,
it seems desirable that the Court's decision should be announced at this time. Accordingly, we will only undertake in what follows to outline with brevity our replies to
the conclusions reached by the majority and to suggest
some of the reasons which lend support to our position.
The authority exercised by the President and the
Treasury in demanding all gold coin, bullion and certificates is not now challenged; neither is the right of the
former to prescribe weight for the standard dollar. These
things we have not considered. Plainly, however, to coin
money and regulate the value thereof calls for legislative
action.
Intelligent discussion respecting dollars requires recognition of the fact that the word may refer to very different things. Formerly the standard gold dollar weighed
25.8 grains; the weight now prescribed is 15 5/21 grains.
Evidently, promises to pay one or the other of these differ
greatly in value, and this must be kept in mind.
From 1792 to 1873 both the gold and silver dollar were
standard and legal tender, coinage was free and unlimited.
Persistent efforts were made to keep both in circulation.
Because the prescribed relation between them got out of

GOLD CLAUSE CASES.
240

371

Dissenting Opinion.

harmony with exchange values, the gold coin disappeared
and did not in fact freely circulate in this country for
30 years prior to 1834. During that time business transactions were based on silver. In 1834, desiring to restore
parity and bring gold back into circulation, Congress reduced somewhat (6%) the weight of the gold coin and
thus equalized the coinage and the exchange values. The
silver dollar was not changed. The purpose was to restore
the use of gold as surrency-not to force up prices or
destroy obligations. There was no apparent profit for
the books of the Treasury. No injury was done to creditors; none was intended. The legislation is without special significance here. See Hepburn on Currency.
The moneys under consideration in the Legal Tender
Cases; decided May 1, 1871, 12 Wall. 457, and Mavch 3,
1884, 110 U. S. 421, were promises to pa dollars,. ' bills
of credit." They were "a pledge of the national credit,"
promises "by the Government to pay dollars," "'"he
standard of v.lue is not changed." The expectation, ult.imately realized, was that in due time they would'be.redeemed in standard coin. The Cqurt was careful to show:
that they were issued to meet a great emergency in time
of war, when the overthrow of the Government was
threatened and specie payments had been suspended.
Both the end in view and the means employed, the Court
held were lawful. The thing actually done was the issuance of bill6 exidowed with the quality of legal terider in*
order to carry on until the United States could find it possible to meet their obligations in standard coin. This
they accomplished in 1879. The purpose was to meet
honorable obligations--not to -repudiate them.
The opinion there rendered declares--" The legal tender
adts do not attempt to make paper a standard of value.
We do not rest their validity upon the assertion that their
emission is coinage, or any regulation of 'the value "of
money; nor do we assert that Congress may make any-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Dissenting Opinion.

294 U.S.

thing which has no value money. What we do assert is,
that Congress has power to enact that the government's
promises to pay money shall be, for the time being,
equivalent in value to the representative of value determined by the coinage acts or to multiples thereof." What
was said in those causes, of course, must be read in the
light of all the circumstances. The opinion gives no support to what has been attempted here.
This Court has not heretofore ruled that Congress may
require the holder of an obligation to accept payment in
subsequently devalued coins, or promises by the Government to pay in such coins. The legislation before us attempts this very thing. If this is permissible, then a gold
dollar containing one grain of gold may become the standard, all contract rights fall, and huge profits appear on
the Treasury books. Instead of $2,800,000,000 as recently
reported, perhaps $20,000,000,000, maybe enough to cancel the public debt, maybe more!
The power to issue bills and "regulate values" of coin
cannot be so enlarged as to authorize arbitrary action,
whose immediate purpose and necessary effect is destruction of individual rights.2 As this Court has said, a
"power to regulate is not a power to destroy." 154 U. S.
362, 398. The Fifth Amendment limits all governmental
powers. We are dealing here with a debased standard,
adopted with the definite purpose to destroy obligations.
Such arbitrary and oppressive action is not within any
congressional power heretofore recognized.
*, It may well be doubted whether the nature of society and of
government does not prescribe some limits to the legislative power;
and if any be prescribed where are they to be found if the property
of an individual fairly and honestly acquired may be seized without
compensation." Chief Justice Marshall in Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch
87, 135.

GOLD CLAUSE CASES.
240

Dissenting Opinion.

The authority of Congress to create legal tender obligations in times of peace is derived from the power to borrow money; this cannot be extended to embrace the destruction of all credits.
There was no coin--specie-in general circulation in
the United States between 1862 and 1879. Both gold
and silver were treated in business as commodities. The
Legal Tender Cases arose during that period.
CORPORATE BONDS-

The gold clauses in these bonds were valid and in entire
harmony with public policy when executed. They are
property-Lynch v. United States, 292 U. S. 571, 579.
To destroy a validly acquired right is the taking of property-Osborn v. Nicholson, 13 Wall. 654, 662. They established a measure of value and supply a basis for recovery if broken. Their policy and purpose were
stamped with affirmative approval by the Government
when inserted in its bonds..
The clear intent of the parties was that in case the
standard of 1900 should be withdrawn, and a new and
less valuable one set up, the debtor could be required to
pay the value of the contents of the old standard in terms
of the new currency, whether coin or paper. If gold
measured by prevailing currency had declined, the debtor
would have received the benefit. The Agricultural Adjustment Act of May 12th discloses a fixed purpose to
raise the nominal value of farm products by depleting
the standard dollar. It authorized the President to reduce the gold in the standard, and further provided that
all forms of currency should be legal tender. The result
expected to follow was increase in nominal values of
commodities and depreciation of contractual obligations.
The purpose of § 43, incorporated by the Senate as an
amendment to the House Bill, was clearly stated by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Dissenting Opinion.

294 U.S.

Senator who presented it.' It was the destru"+ion of
lawfully acquired rights.
In the circumstances existing just after the Act of
May 12th, depreciation of the standard dollar by the
Presidential proclamation would not have decreased the
amount required to meet obligations containing gold
clauses. As to them the depreciation of the standard
would have caused an increase in the number of dollars
of depreciated currency. General reduction of all debts
could only be secured by first destroying the contracts
evidenced by the gold lauses; and this the Resolution of
June 5th undertook to accomplish. It was aimed directly
at those contracts and had no definite relation to the
power to issue bills or to coin or regulate the value of
money.
To carry out the plan indicated as above shown in the
Senate, the Gold Reserve Act followed-January 30, 1934.
This inhibited the President from fixing the weight of
the standard gold dollar above 60% of its then existing
weight. (Authority had been given for 50% reduction by
the Act of May 12th.) On January 31st he directed that
the standard should contain 15 5/21 grains of gold. If
this reduction of 40% of all debts was within the power
of Congress and if, as a necessary means to accomplish
that end, Congress had power by resolution to destroy the
S

He said.-" This amendment has for its purpose the bringing down

or cheapening of the dollar, that being necessary in order to raise
agricultural and commodity prices. . . . The first part of the

amendment has to do with conditions precedent to action being taken
later.
"It will be my task to show that if the amendment shall prevail it
has potentialities as follows: It may transfer from one class to another
class in these United States value to the extent of almost $200,000,000,000. This value will be transferred, first, from those who own the
bank deposits. Secondly, this value will be transferred from those who
own bonds and fixed investments." Cong. Record, April 1933, pp.
2004, 2216, 2217, 2219.

GOLD CLAUSE CASES.
240

375

Dissenting Opinion.

gold clauses, the holders of these corporate bonds are without remedy. But we must not forget that if this power
exists, Congress may readily destroy other obligations
which present obstruction to the desired effect of further
depletion. The destruction of all obligations by reducing
the standard gold dollar to one grain of gold, or brass or
nickel or copper or lead, will become an easy possibility.
Thus we reach the fundamental question which must
control the result of the controversy in respect of corporate bonds. Apparently in the opinion of the majority
the gold clause in the Liberty bond withstood the June 5th
Resolution notwithstanding the definite purpose to destroy them. We think that in the circumstances Congress
had no power to destroy the obligations of the gold
clauses in private obligations. The attempt to do this
was plain usurpation, arbitrary and oppressive.
The oft repeated rule by which the validity of statutes
must be tested is this-" Let the end be legitimate, let it
be within the scope of the Constitution, and all means
which are appropriate, which are plainly adapted to that
end, which.are not prohibited but consistent with the
letter and spirit of the Constitution, are constitutional."
The end or objective of the Joint Resolution was not
"legitimate." The real purpose was not "to hssure uniform value to the coins and currencies of the United
States," but to destroy certain valuable contract rights.
The recitals do not harmonize with circumstances then
existing. The Act of 1900 which prescribed a standard
dollar of 25.8 grains remained in force; but its command
that " all forms of money issued or coined by the United
States shall be maintained at a parity of value with this
standard " was not being obeyed. Our currency was passing at a material discount; all gold had been sequestrated;
none was attainable. The Resolution made no provision
for restoring parity with the old standard; it established
no new one.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Dissenting Opinion.

294 U.S.

This Resolution was not apprcpriate for carrying into
effect any power entrusted to Congress. The gold clauses
in no substantial way interfered with the power of coining money or regulating its value or providing an uniform
currency. Their existence, as with many other circumstances, might have circumscribed the effect of the intended depreciation and disclosed the unwisdom of it..
But they did not prevent the exercise of any granted
power. They were not inconsistent with any policy
theretofore declared. To assert the contrary is not
enough. The Court must be able to see the appropriateness of the thing done before it can be permitted to destroy lawful agreements. The purpose of a statute is
not determined by mere recitals -certainly they are not
conclusive evidence of the facts stated.
Again, if effective, the direct, primary and intended result of the Resolution will be the destruction of valid
rights lawfully acquired. There is no question here of
the indirect effect of lawful exercise of power. And citations of opinions which upheld such indirect effects are
beside the mark. This statute does not "work harm and
loss to individuals indirectly," it destroys directly. Such
interference violates the Fifth Amendment; there is no
provision Tor compensation. If the destruction is said
to be for the public benefit, proper compensation is essential; if for private benefit, the due process clause bars
the way.
Congress has power to coin money but this cannot be
exercised without the possession of metal. Can Congress
authorize appropriation, without compensation, of the
necessary gold? Congress has power to regulate commerce, to establish post roads, &c. Some approved plan
may involve the use or destruction of A's land or a private
way. May Congress authorize the appropriation or destruction of these things without adequate payment? Of

GOLD CLAUSE CASES.
240

377

Dissenting Opinion.

course not. The limitations prescribed by the Constitution restrict the exercise of all power.
Ling Su Fan v. United States, 218 U. S.302, supports
the power of the legislature to prevent exportation of
coins without compensation. But this is far from saying
that the legislature might have ordered destruction of the
coins without compensating the owners or that they could
have been required to deliver them up and accept whatever was offered. In United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S.
445, 471, this Court said-" If any one proposition can
be considered as settled by the decisions of this court it
is that although in the discharge of its duties the Government may appropriate property, it cannot do so without being liable to the obligation cast by the fifth amendment of paying just compensation."
GOVERNMENT BONDS-

Congress may coin money; also it may borrow money.
Neither power may be exercised so as to destroy the other;
the two clauses must be so construed as to give effect
to each. Valid contracts to repay money borrowed cannot be destroyed by exercising power under the coinage
provision. The majority seem to hold that the Resolution of June 5th did not affect the gold clauses in bonds
of the United States. Nevertheless we are told that no
damage resulted to the holder now before us through the
refusal to pay one of them in gold coin of the kind designated or its equivalent. This amounts to a declaration
that the Government may give with one hand and take
away with the other. Default is thus made both easy
and safe!
Congress brought about the conditions in respect of'
gold which existed when the obligation matured. Having
made payment in this metal impossible, the Government
cannot defend by saying that if the obligation had been
met the creditor could not have retained the gold; con-

378-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Dissenting Opinion.

294 U.S.

sequently he suffered no damage because of the nondelivery. Obligations cannot be legally avoided by prohibiting the creditor from receiving the thing promised. The
promise was to pay in gold, standard of "1900, otherwise to
.discharge the debt by paying the value of the thing promised in currency. One of these things was not prohibited.
The Government may not escape the obligation of making good the loss incident to repudiation by prohibiting
the holding of gold. Payment by fiat of any kind is beyond its recognized power. There would be no serious
difficulty in estimating the value of 25.8 grains of gold in
the currency now in circulation.
These bonds are held by men and women in many parts
of the world; they have relied upon our honor. Thousands of our own citizens of every degree, not doubting
the good faith of their sovereign, have purchased them.
It would not be easy for this multitude to appraise the
form of words which establishes that they have suffered
no appreciable damage; but perhaps no more difficult for
them than for us. And their difficulty will not be assuaged when they reflect that ready calculation of the
exact loss suffered by the Philippine gcvernment moved
Congress to satisfy it by appropriating, in June 1934, $23,862,750.78 to be paid out of the Treasury of the United
States." And see Act May 30, 1934, 48 Stat. 817, appro'AN ACT relating to Philippine currency reserves on deposit in thq
United States.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary
of the Treasury is authorized and directed, when the funds therefor
are made available, to establish on the books of the Treasury a credit
in favor of the Treasury of the Philippine Islands for $23,862,750.78,
being an amount equal to the increase in value (resulting from'the
reduction of the weight of the gold dollar) of the gold equivalent at
the opening of business on January 31, 1934, of the balances maintained at that time in banks i the continental United States by the

GOLD CLAUSE CASES.
240

379

Dissenting' Opinion.

priating $7,438,000 To meet losses sustained by officers
and employees in foreign countries due to appreciation of
foreign currencies in their relation to the American
dollar.
GoLD CERTIFICATES-

These were contracts to return gold left on deposit;
otherwise to pay its value in the currency. Here the gold
was not returned; there arose the obligation of the Government to pay its value. The Court of Claims has jurisdiction over such contracts. Congress made it impossible for the holder to receive and retain the gold promised him; the statute prohibited delivery to him. The
contract being broken the obligation was to pay in currency the value of 25.8 grains of gold for each dollar
called for by the certificate. For the Government to say,
we have violated our contract but have escaped the consequences through our own statute, would be monstrous.
In matters of contractual obligation the Government can
not legislate so as to excuse itself.
These words of Alexander Hamilton ought not to be
forgotten"When a government enters into a contract with an
individual, it deposes, as to the matter of the contract, its
constitutional authority, and exchanges the character of
legislator for that of a moral agent, with the same rights
and, obligations as an individual. Its promises may be
Government of the Philippine Islands for its gold standard fund and
its Treasury certificate fund less the interest received by it on such
balances.
Sec. 2. There is hereby authorized to be appropriated, out of the
receipts covered into the Treasury under section 7 of the Gold Reserve
Act of 1934, by virtue of the reduction of the weight of the gold
dollar by the proclamation of the President on January 31, 1934, the
amount necessary to establish the credit provided for in section 1 of
this Act. Approved, June 19, 1934.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Dissenting Opinion.

294 U.S.

justly considered as excepted out of its power to legislate,
unless in aid of them. It is in theory impossible to reconcile the idea of a promise which obliges, with a power to
make a law which can vary the effect of it." 3 Hamilton's
Works, 518, 519.
These views have not heretofore been questioned here.
In the Sinking-FundCases, 99 U. S. 700, 719, Chief Justice
Waite speaking for the majority declared: "The United
States are as much bound by their contracts as are individuals. If they repudiate their obligations, it is as much
repudiation, with all the wrong and reproach that term
implies, as it would be if the repudiator had been a State
or a municipality or a citizen. No change can be made
in the title created by the grant of the lands, or in the
contract for the subsidy bonds, without the consent of the
corporation. All this is indisputable."
And in the same cause, (731, 732) Mr.Justice Strong,
speaking for himself, affirmed: "It is as much beyond the
power of a legislature, under any pretence, to alter a contract into which the government has entered with a private individual, as it is for any other party to a contract
to change its terms without the consent of the person contracting with him. As to its contract the government in
all its departments has laid aside its sovereignty, and it
stands on the same footing with private contractors."
Can the Government, obliged as though a private
person to observe the terms of its contracts, destr.oy them by
legislative changes in the currency and by statutes forbidding one to hold the thing which it has agreed to deliver? If an individual should undertake to annul or
lessen his obligation by secretig or manipulating his
assets with the intent to place them beyond the reach of
creditors, the attempt would be denounced as fraudulent,
wholly ineffective.

GOLD CLAUSE CASES.
240

Dissenting Opinion.

Counsel for the Government and railway companies
asserted with emphasis that incalculable financial disaster
would follow refusal to uphold, as authorized by the Constitution, impairment and repudiation of private obligations and public debts. Their forecast is discredited by
manifest exaggeration. But, whatever may be the situation now confronting us, it is the outcome of attempts
to destroy lawful undertakings by legislative action; and
this we think the Court should disapprove in no uncertain
terms.
Under the challenged statutes it is said the United
States have realized profits. amounting to $2,800,000,000.5

But this assumes that gain may be generated by legislative fiat. To such counterfeit profits there would be no
limit; with each new debasement of the dollar they would
expand. Two billions might be ballooned indefinitelyto twenty, thirty, or what you will.
Loss of reputation for honorable dealing will bring us
unending humiliation; the impending legal and moral
chaos is appalling.
'In a radio address concerning the plans of the Treasury, August 28,
1934, the Secretary of the Treasury, as reported by the Commercial
and Financial Chronicle of September 1, 1934, stated:
"But we have anothier cash drawer in the Treasury, in addition to
the drawer which carries our working balance. This second drawer I
will call the 'gold' drawer. In it is the very large sum of $2,800,000,000, representing 'profit' resulting from the change in the gold
conteint of the dollar. Practically all of this 'profit' the Treasury
holds in the form of gold and silver. The rest is in other assets.
"I do not propose here to subtract this $2,800,000,000 from the net
increase of $4,400,000,000 in the national debt-thereby reducing the
figure to $1,600,000,000. And the reason why I do not subtract it is
this: for the present this $2,800,000,000 is under lock and key. Most
of it, by authority of Congress, is segregated in the so-called stabilization fund, and for the present we propose to keep it there. But I call
your attention to the fact that ultimately we expect this 'profit' to
flow back into the stream of our other revenues and thereby reduce
the national debt."

