WEST OHIO GAS CO. v. COMM'N. (NO. 1).
50

63

Syllabus.

relief demanded could be spelled out of the Act reading
it as a whole and as amended by the Transportation Act,
1920. This statement of the views of the Commission indicates that its conclusion was not so clearly erroneous
as to call for the exercise of the extraordinary power involved in the issuance of mandamus. Where the matter
is not beyond peradventure clear we have invariably refused the writ, even though the question were one of law
as to the extent of the statutory power of an administrative officer or body. 1 ' We think this principle applicable in the present case, and that the courts below were
right in refusing the writ.
Affirmed.
The judgment is
WEST OHIO GAS CO. v. PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF OHIO. (No. 1).
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF OHIO.

No. 212.

Submitted December 7, 1934.-Decided January 7, 1935.

1. In computing the operating expenses of a gas-distributing company,
in the process of fixing its rates, the company's books are presumptively .correct. P. 67.
2. Where the company's accounts showed that the amount of gas lost
through leakage, etc., was 9% per annum of the amount purchased
by it, and the books were found regular, but the public commission,
in fixing its rates, struck off 2% of this from operating expense,
upon the ground that with proper care the loss would have been
less, and did so without any evidence of waste or neglect, and without giving to the company any warning of this action or opportunity to oppose it by proof of due care,--held that the action was
Wholly arbitrary. P. 67.
Reeride v. Walker, 11 How. 272, 289; International Contracting
Co. v. Lamont, 155 U. S. 303, 308; Riverside Oil Co. v. Hitchcock,
190 U. S. 316, 323; Bates & Guild Co. v. Payne, 194 U. S. 106, 108;
Ness v. Fisher,223 U. S. 683, 691; Hall v. Payne, 254 U. S. 343, 347;
Wilbur v. United States, 281 U. S. 206, 219; United States v. Wilbur,
283 U. S. 414, 420; Interstate Commerce Commission v. New York,
N. H. & H. R. Co., 287 U. S. 178, 191, 203.

64

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

294 U. S

3. Where the sole method provided by state law for review of a ratefixing order is by hearing upon the law and facts on an appeal to
the state supreme court, the facts relied on to sustain the rates
against unimpeached evidence submitted by the utility must be exhibited in the record, otherwise the hearing is inadequate and not
judicial. P. 68.
4. In fixing rates of a gas company, a public commission, after closing
the hearings and without further notice to the company, adopted a
new method of distributing certain expenses over the area served
and applied it to one city, where its effect on the rate was unfavorable to the company, and omitted to apply it to another where the
effect would have been favorable. The reallocation was based on
the commission's construction of annual reports of the company
which had not been put in evidence, and no opportunity was allowed to contest the reallocation or to secure a rate readjustment in
harmony with it. Held that the procedure was unfair and contrary
to due process. Pp. 69, 71.
5. In reviewing rate cases coming from state courts, under the due
process clause, the function of this Court is not concerned with error
or irregularity in the rate-making, however gross, if the consequences, in their totality, are consistent with enjoyment by the
regulated utility of a revenue something higher than the line of confiscation, and if suitable opportunity was afforded the utility
through evidence and argument to challenge the result. P. 70.
6. In deciding a rate case the Court may take judicial notice of the
record of a similar and related ca-e pending before it between the
same parties. P. 70.
7. Within the limits of reason, advertising or development expenses to
foster normal growth are legitimate charges upon income for rate
purposes; and a refusal by a public commission to make allowance
for such expenditures, on the ground that they were excessive and
wasteful but without any evidence to support it, is contrary to due
process. P. 72.
8. Good faith on the part of the managers of a business is to be presumed; and in the absence of a showing of inefficiency or improvidence, a court will not substitute its judgment for theirs as to the
measure of a prudent outlay. P. 72.
9. Judicial notice is taken of the fact that gas is in competition with
other fuels, such as oil or electricity. P. 72.
10. Rates fixed by city ordinance for a term of years were set aside as
unfair and higher rates substituted for the same term in a proceeding brought before a public commission by the utility affected.

WEST OHIO GAS CO. v. COMM'N. (NO. 1).

65

Opinion of the Court.

63

Held that, in determining whether the higher rates yield a fair return, the amount reasonably laid out by the utility as expenses of
the proceeding, including the charges of engineers and counsel,
should be included in the costs of operation and spread over the
period for which the rates were prescribed. P. 72.
11. As applied to a corporation engaged in the sale of gas during
1928-1931, compulsory rates which net an income of only 4.53%
upon its proper rate base, are confiscatory. P. 75.
12. The claim made by the Gas Company that the allowance for depreciation reserve was inadequate, and that it was entitled to add to
operating charges the amortized value of a transmission main extending from the city to fields of natural gas, cannot be upheld.
P. 77.
128 Ohio St. 301; 191 N. E. 105, reversed.

APPEAL from the affirmance of an order of the Public

Utilities Commission fixing the rates of the Gas Company
in the City of Lima, Ohio.
Messrs. Edmond W. Hebel, Harry 0. Bentley, and
Charles C. Marshall submitted for appellant.
Mr. John W. Bricker, Attorney General of Ohio, and
Mr. Donald C. Power, Assistant Attorney General, submitted for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The appellant, West Ohio Gas Company, supplies gas
to the inhabitants of the city of Lima, Ohio, and to neighboring communities, part of what it sells being artificial
gas manufactured by itself and part natural gas bought
from another company which is wholly independent.
On March 19, 1928, the municipal authorities of the
city of Lima passed an ordinance, effective April 19, prescribing the maximum price to be charged for gas to consumers within the city during a period of five years.
The rates were to be as follows: for the first 1,000 cubic
feet of gas, 90 cents per month; for the next 3,000 cubic
112536*--35----5

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

feet per month, 80 cents per M c. f.; for the next 6,000,
75 cents per M c. f.; and for all over 10,000 per month,
55 cents per M c. f. This was a sharp reduction of the
rates previously charged, which were $1.25 for the first
400 cubic feet; $1.05 for the next 9,600 cubic feet; $1 for
the next 15,000; and for all over 25,000, 75 cents per
Mc. f.
In adherence to the Ohio statutes (Ohio General Code,
ยง 614-44 et seq.), the company filed a complaint
with the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio, protesting
against the ordinance, praying that the commission fix a
fair and reasonable schedule, electing, as it might, to
charge in the meantime the rates previously in force, and
giving bond for the return of the excess, if any. The
hearings before the Coimnission began in July, 1928, and
ended in July, 1932. While the proceeding was pending,
there was a final order of valuation, made in January,
1932, whereby the value of the property in Limia, used
and useful for the business, was fixed at $1,901,696.26 as
of March 31, 1928, approximately the date of the adoption of the ordinance. There being no appeal from that
order within the time prescribed by law, it became binding on the company, as well as on the commission, though
the valuation was less than the company had urged. 128
Ohio St. 301, 311; 191 N. E. 105. The rate base being
thus established, what was next to be ascertained was the
amount of the operating expenses as compared with the
gross income, after which a conclusion could be drawn
as to the rates that would be necessary for a fair return
on the investment. An order entered by the commission
on March 10, 1933, adjudged the rates under the ordinance to be insufficient and unjust. It substituted rates
averaging about 131/% less than those that the company had been charging: for 400 cubic feet or less per
month, $1; for the next 9,600, 95 cents per M c. f.; for
anything in excess of 10,000 cubic feet per month, 75

WEST OHIO GAS CO. v. COMM'N. (NO. 1).
63

67

Opinion of the Court.

cents per M c. f., with penalties to be charged if payment
was delayed. The rates so fixed were to be retroactive
as of the effective date of the ordinance, April 19, 1928,
from which time they were to remain in force for a
term of five years, and the difference between their yield
and the amount collected by the company was to be refunded to consumers. A motion for a rehearing having
been denied, the company filed a petition in error with
the Supreme Court of Ohio, invoking the protection of
the Fourteenth Amendment. The order of the commission was affirmed, 128 Ohio St. 301; 191 N. E. 105; and
the case is here upon appeal.
The commission made its order, as it has informed us
by an amended opinion, in the belief that the new rates
would yield a return of 6.65% on the value of the property included in the base. Its estimate was wide of the
mark as a result of mathematical errors, and this on the
assumption that its rulings as to the items of operating
expenses to be allowed or disallowed were correct in fact
and law. Even on that assumption, the average net income during the four years of the ordinance period for
which figures were available was $109,414, which upon a
rate base of $1,901,696 is equivalent to an average return
of about 5.75%. This is now admitted by counsel for the
commission, and must be accepted as a datum. What is
still to be determined is whether the rate of return has
been further overestimated to the point of confiscation
through error in the rejection of charges upon income.
1. The company made claim to an allowance for "unaccounted for gas,"-which is gas lost as a result of leakage,
condensation, expansion or contraction. There is no dispute that a certain loss through these causes is unavoidable, no matter how carefully the business is conducted.
Cf. Consolidated Gas Co. v. Newton, 267 Fed. 231, 244;
Brooklyn Union Gas Co. v. Prendergast,7 F. (2d) 628,
652, 671. The company, basing its claim upon its

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

proved experience, reported the average loss as 9% per
annum. The Commission fixed the allowance at 7%,
thereby reducing the operating expenses by $3,800 a year.
In making this reduction, it did not deny that the loss had
been suffered to the extent stated by the company. The
presumption of correctness that gives aid in controversies
of this order to the books of public service corporations
(Consolidated Gas Co. v. Newton, supra, at p. 242; Newton v. Consolidated Gas Co., 258 U. S. 165, 176) was confirmed in this instance by what amounts to a finding of
regularity. Accepting the loss as proved, the commission
refused to allow it for more than 77( upon the ground that
with proper care of the system the loss would have been
less. A public utility will not be permitted to include
negligent or wasteful losses among its operating charges.
The waste or negligence, however, must be established by
evidence of one kind or another, either direct or circumstantial. In all the pages of this record, there is neither
a word nor a circumstance to charge the management with
fault. Cf. Ohio Utilities Co. v. Public Utilities Commismission of Ohio, 267 U. S. 359, 363. There is not even
the shadow of a warning to the company that fault was
imputed and that it must give evidence of care. Without
anything to suggest that there was such an issue in the
case, the commission struck off 2%; it might with as much
reason have struck off 4 or 6. This was wholly arbitrary.
Ohio Utilities Co. v. Public Utilities Commission of Ohio,
supra.
Under the statutes of Ohio no provision is made for a
review of the order of the Commission by a separate or
independent suit. The sole method of review is by petition in error to the Ohio Supreme Court, which considers
both the law and the facts. Dayton P. & L. Co. v. P. U.
Commission of Ohio, 292 U. S. 290, 302; Hocking Valley
Ry. Co. v. Public Utilities Commission, 100 Ohio St. 321,
326, 327; 126 N. E. 397. To make such review Ldequate

WEST OHIO GAS CO. v. COMM'N. (NO. 1).
63

69

Opinion of the Court.

the record must exhibit in some way the facts relied upon
by the court to repel unimpeached evidence submitted for
the company. If that were not so, a complainant would
be helpless, for the inference would always be possible
that the court and the Commission had drawn upon
undisclosed sources of information unavailable to others.
A hearing is not judicial, at least in any adequate sense,
unless the evidence can be known.
2. The company made claim to an allowance of "distribution expenses" incurred in the superintendence of
distribution, in work on the premises of customers incidental to the service, in the change of meters used .to
measure the gas sold, and in the maintenance of local
mains and equipment. There is no denial,'even now, that
these expenses were incurred as claimed. There was no
challenge upon the trial to the practice of the company
whereby moneys spent in Lima, the territorial unit af-fected by the ordinance, were allocated to that city, and
not to territory beyond. The case was tried on the assumption that the practice was acceptable and was so
submitted for decision. Eight months later, on the eve
of a determination, the commission conceived the thought
that distribution costs in Lima should be borne also by
consumers in outlying communities (including the city
of Kenton) served by the same company, which would
mean, of course, that like expenses in the other communities must be borne by residents of Lima. Up to
that stage the data were lacking for a division on that
basis. Accordingly, by an order made ex parte on March
8, 1933, without the appellant's knowledge, the commission directed of its own motion that the annual reports
for the years 1928 to 1931 inclusive be introduced in evidence and made a part of the record. On the basis of
these reports it ascertained the average distribution expense per customer for all the eleven communities served
by the appellant, multiplied this average by the number

70

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

of customers in Lima, and thus arrived at the share to
be allocated to that city in the determination of the local
rates. By that mode of apportionment, the operating
expenses were reduced to the extent of $6,200 annually.
We do not now decide that there would be a denial of
due process through the spread of distributing costs over
the total area of service, if the new method of allocation
had been adopted after timely notice to the company and
then consistently applied. This court does not sit as a
board of revision with power to review the action of adininistrative agencies upon grounds unrelated to the
maintenance of constitutional immunities. Los Angeles
Gas & Electric Corp. v. Railroad Commission of California, 289 U. S. 287. Our inquiry in rate cases coming
here from the state courts is whether the action of the
state officials in the totality of its consequences is consistent with the enjoyment by the regulated utility of a
revenue something higher than the line of confiscation.
If this level is attained, and attained with suitable opportunity through evidence and argument (Southern Ry.
Co. v. Virginia, 290 U. S. 190) to challenge the result,
there is no denial of due process, though the proceeding
is shot through with irregularity ot error. But the weakness of the case for the appellee is that the fundamentals
of a fair hearing were not conceded to the company. Opportunity did not exist to supplement or explain the annual reports as to the distribution of the expenses in the
neighboring communities, nor did opportunity exist to
bring the rates outside of Lima into harmony with the
exigencies of a new method of allocation adopted without warning.
The need for such an opportunity is brought into clear
relief by the record in number 213, a case submitted along
with this one, and within the range of our judicial notice.
Butler v. Eaton, 141 U. S. 240, 243, 244; Aspen Mining
& Smelting Co. v. Billings, 150 U. S. 31, 38; Bienville

WEST OHIO GAS CO. v. COMM'N. (NO. 1).
63

71

Opinion of the Court.

Water Supply Co. v. Mobile, 186 U. S. 212, 217; Fritzlen
v. Boatmen's Bank, 212 U. S. 364, 370. The subject matter of that case was the rate schedule for the city of Kenton, served with gas by the appellant. In Kenton, unlike
Lima, a spread of distribution costs over the whole area
of service would have been favorable to the appellant
and unfavorable to customers. Strange to say, the commission, though prescribing the larger area for Lima,
adopted the smaller one for Kenton, and this by a decision rendered the same day. An injustice so obvious
may not be suffered to prevail. The commission by its
counsel suggests as an excuse that a division on a different basis was not requested by the company. There was
no reason to request it, for the record as made up when
the case was finally submitted did not contain the necessary data for a spread over a larger area, nor was there
any hint by the commission that such a division was in
view. Manifestly, whatever territorial unit is adopted
must be made use of consistently, and .regardless of the
consequences. If a different course were to be followed,
there would be less than full requital after all the communities affected had contributed their quotas.
To resume: division on one basis in Lima and on
another basis in Kenton, all without notice to the company that the spread was to be altered and new evidence
received, was an exercise of arbitrary power, at variance
with "the rudiments of fair play" (Chicago, M. & St. P.
Ry. Co. v. Polt, 232 U. S. 165, 168) long known to our
law. The Fourteenth Amendment condemns such methods and defeats them.
3. The company made claim to commercial expenses
incurred in reading the meters of the customers, keeping
their accounts, and sending out and collecting bills. The
commission treated these items the same way that it
treated the expenses of distribution, and spread them
over the whole territory instead of confining them to
Lima. The result was a reduction of operating expenses

72

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

to the extent of $1,085.25 yearly. For reasons already
stated, the reduction may not stand.
4. The company made claim to expenses incurred in
procuring new business or in the endeavor to procure it,
such expenses amounting on the average to $12,000 a
year. The commission did not question the fact of payment, but cut down the allowance to $5,000 a year on
the ground that anything morei was unnecessary and
wasteful. The criticism has no basis in evidence, either
direct or circumstantial. Good faith is to be presumed
on the part of the managers of a business. Southwestern
Bell Telephone Co. v. Public Service Commission of Missouri, 262 U. S. 276, 288, 289. In the absence of a showing of inefficiency or improvidence, a court will not substitute its judgment for theirs as to tfie measure of a
prudent outlay. Banton v. Belt Line Ry. Corp., 268
U. S. 413, 421; Brooklyn Borough Gas Co. v. Prendergast, 16 F. (2d) 615, 623; New York & Richmond Gas Co.
v. Prendergast, 10 F. (2d) 167, 181. The suggestion is
made that there is no evidence of competition. We take
judicial notice of the fact that gas is in competition with
other forms of fuel, such as oil and electricity. A business never stands still. It either grows or decays. Within
the limits of reason, advertising or development expenses
to foster normal growth are legitimate charges upon income for rate purposes as for others. Consolidated Gas
Co. v. Newton, supra, at p. 253. When a business disintegrates, there isdamage to the stockholders, but damage
also to the customers in the ost or quality of service.
5. The company made claim to an allowance of the
expenses of the rate litigation amounting in all to about
$30,000, to be spread in equal parts over a term of five
years, the duration of the ordinance. No part of these
expenses has been allowed-, though apparently both commission and court intended to allow them, spreading them,
however, over a term of six years instead of five. "It

WEST OHIO GAS CO. v. COMM'N. (NO. 1).
63

73

Opinion of the Court.

must be conceded," said the court, "that the gas company is entitled to a fair and reasonable allowance for
rate case expenses." This is followed by the statement
that if the spread be six years (instead of five), and $5,100
be allowed for each of those years "as contended by the
commission," the rate fixed by the order will give an adequate return. True there is also the statement that the
commission would have been warranted in ignoring this
item altogether "in the absence of proof that the gas
company's book figures represented an amount that was
fair and reasonable." Even in that remark the implication is obvious that this is not what the commission did.
Moreover, there is nothing in the record justifying an
inference that the figures were erroneous or the payments
improvident. Consolidated Gas Co. v. Newton, supra,
at p. 242; Newton v. Consolidated Gas Co., supra, at
p. 176. The course of the trial exhibits very clearly the
understanding of the parties that expenditures shown by
the books would be deemed to have been made in good
faith and with reasonable judgment unless evidence was
at hand overcoming the presumption. In the absence of
any challenge of their necessity or fairness, we must view
them as they were accepted by the triers of the facts.
Thus viewing them, we think they must be included
among the costs of operation in the computation of a
fair return. The company had complained to the Commission that an ordinance regulating its rates was in contravention of the statutes of the .state and of the Constitution of the nation. In that complaint it prevailed. The
charges of engineers and counsel, incurred in defense of
its security and perhaps its very life, were as appropriate
and even necessary as expenses could well be.
A different case would be here if the company's complaint had been unfounded, or if the cost of the proceeding had been swollen by untenable objections. There is
neither evidence nor even claim that the conduct of the
company's representatives was open to that reproach.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

The statute laid a duty on the commission, when it found
the ordinance unjust, to prescribe its own schedule. The
one it adopted, though higher than the one condemned,
did not satisfy the company, but there was nothing unreasonable or obstructive in laying before the commission
whatever data might be helpful to that body in reaching
a considered judgment. Indeed, we shall be brought to
the conclusion, if we analyze the record, that the two
phases of the controversy were substantially coincident.
Everything relevant to the schedule adopted by the commission was relevant also to an inquiry into the fairness
of the ordinance.
In this matter of rate case expenses, we must distinguish between the function of a court and that of a commission. A court passing upon a challenge to the validity
of statutory rates does not determine the rates to be
adopted as a substitute. Central Kentucky Natural Gas
Co. v. Railroad Commission of Kentucky, 290 U. S. 264,
271, 272; Newton v. Consolidated Gas Co., supra. If the
rates are inadequate to the point of confiscation, the complainant has no need, it is said, to count upon the expenses of the lawsuit; if they are-not already inadequate,
the lawsuit cannot make them so. Cf. Columbus Gas &
Fuel Co. v. City of Columbus, 17 F. (2d) 630, 640. An
argument to that effect runs through some of the decisions, though we are not required now either to accept or
to reject it. But the case is different where a commission,
after setting a schedule of rates aside, is empowered to
substitute another to take effect by retroaction and cover
the same years. In determining what the substitute shall
be, the commission must give heed to all legitimate expenses that will be charges upon income during .the term
of regulation, and in such a reckoning the expenses of the
controversy engendered by the ordinance must have a
place like any others. Denver Union Stockyard Co. v.
United States, 57 F. (2d) 735, 753, 754; New York &
Richmond Gas Co. v. Prendergast,supra, at pp. 181, 182;

WEST OHIO GAS CO. v. COMM'N. (NO. 1).
63

75

Ophiion of the Court.

Monroe Gas Light Co. v. Michigan Public Utilities Com-

mission, 11 F. (2d) 319, 325.
There are sjiuggestions in the books that the cost of
litigation is to be reckoned as an extraordinary expense and
so a charge upon capital rather than a charge upon income to be paid out of the revenues of one year or of
many. Cf. New York & Queens Gas Co. v. Newton, 269
Fed. 277, 290; Reno P. L. & W. Co. v. Public Service
Commission, 298 Fed. 790, 801; contra, New York &
Richmond Gas Co. v. Prendergast,supra,at pp. 181, 182;
Mobile Gas Co. v. Patterson, 293 Fed. 208, 224. There
is no need to consider what practice is to be followed
where the rate is prescribed for a period of indefinite
duration, though there would seem to be little difficulty
in amortizing the charge over a reasonable term. Cf.
New York & Richmond Gas Co. v. Prendergast,supra.
In the case at hand, the period of duration has been
definitely fixed, and the charge upon the income can be
distributed accordingly.
We conclude that an addition of $5,100 must be made
to the yearly operating expenses as the cost of proceedings necessary_ to keep the business going. Cf. Kornhauser v. United States, 276 U. S. 145. The company
makes no point as to the ruling of the commission that
the cost should be spread over six years instead of five,
and we follow that concession.
6. The items enumerated in subdivisions 1 to 5 of this
opinion amount altogether to $23,185.25 annually.
Added to the operating charges they reduce the net income from $109,414 to $86,228.75, or about 4.53% upon
the rate base of $1,901,696. This is too low a rate to
satisfy the requirements of the Constitution when applied to a corporation engaged in the sale of gas during
the years 1928 to 1931, two at least of the four years
b~ing before the days of the depression. Los Angeles
Gas & Electric Co. v. Railroad Commission of California,
supra, at pp. 319, 320; Dayton Power & Light Co. v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

Public Utilities Commission of Ohio, 292 U. S. 290, 311;
Southwestern Bell Telephone Co. v. Public Service Commission, supra, at p. 288; Ohio Utilities Co. v. Public
Utilities Commission of Ohio, supra, at p. 364.
Counsel for the commission argues that disbursements
for charitable and other gifts, allowed by the commission,
ought in law to have been excluded. This may well be,
but the record is too meagre to enable us to ascertain with
certainty the reasons for the payments. Cf. Old Mission
Portland Cement Co. v. Helvering, 293 U. S. 289; In re
Southern California Edison Co., P. U. R. (1924c) 1, at
pp. 32, 33. We do not feel at liberty to eliminate them
upon inconclusive testimony when court and commission have treated them as proper. If, however, all were
to be dropped, the increment to the ra~e would be only
about one-tenth of one per cent. The. change would be
too small to induce a different conclusion.
Counsel also argues that the rate base, though fixed by
the commission in January, 1932, was determined as of
March, 1928, when the ordinance was passed; and we are
reminded that since that time there has been a marked
decline of values, at least during the later years of the
period affected. How great the decline has been we cannot learn with any accuracy from the record now before
us. The value fixed by the commission was adopted as
the base on which to estimate the rate of return at the
beginning of the period, but also at the end. The company acquiesced, believing that the valuation would be
effective during every portion of the term, and abandoned
the appeal it might otherwise have taken. Under the
statutes of Ohio the "sum so fixed must be regarded as a
valuation binding upon the Gas Company aid the city
alike, and is the rate base." 128 Ohio St. 301; 191 N. E.
105. No other sum was considered by the commission,
or deemed to be properly before it. No other sum was
subject to consideration upon the petition in error to

WEST OHIO GAS CO. v. COMM'N. (NO. 1).
63

77

STONE, J., concurring.

the court. To put into the case now an issue heretofore
kept out of it and thereby reach another value would
be a denial of a full and fair hearing by the tribunals of
the state, a denial forbidden by the constitution of the
nation. If the appellee may be heard to say that during
some part of the term the valuation was too high, the company must be free to. urge that at other times it was too
low. Upon the record now submitted to us no such issue
is involved. To bring it into the case at all there is need
of a new hearing with a new reckoning of the rate base,
unhampered by restrictions to any single point of time.
Only in that way can review be full and fair.
7. The company makes the claim that it has received
an inadequate allowance to the extent of $28,021.40 for
depreciation reserve, and that it should have been permitted to amortize the value of a transmission main extending from Lima to fields of natural gas, thereby adding
$22,935.97 to its operating charges.
We have considered these objections, and are unable
to uphold them.
The decree is reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR.JUSTICE STONE,

concurring.

As there was a denial of due process by the Commission in arbitrarily reducing the allowance for " unaccounted for gas," and in failing to apply consistently
either of the two methods of allocation of distribution and
commercial expenses adopted in the two cases submitted
to us, I concur in the judgment of the Court that the case
must be remanded for further proceedings. But with
two of the conclusions in the opinion I am unable to
agree.
1. I think that the petitioner has failed to sustain the
burden, which rests upon it in a confiscation case from

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
STONE,

J., concurring.

294 U. S.

a state court as well as from any other, to show that the
item of expense for "new business " was a proper charge
against gross income. The property for which constitutional protection is invoked is that "used and useful
in the public service," not the enlarged business of the
future which petitioner hopes to obtain through the present expenditure of money. I know of no constitutional
principle upon which this expenditure must be taken from
the pockets of the patrons of the present business, any
more than the cost of future service lines required to
carry on the new business. The record does not suggest
that the expenditure for new business was necessary to,
prevent shrinkage of 'the present business, and the petitioner has failed to show that the charge is not a capital
charge, which it appears on its face to be. If the ation
of the Commission with respect to this item alone .ere
sustained, th o'ate of return, as found by this court, would
be increased to 4.91%.
2. I am not prepared to say that petitioner sustains the
burden of shov&&g confiscation, by showing a rate of re'turn even as low as ,4.91% where it is upon reproduction
value determined as of March 31, 1928. We judicially
know, and cannot ignore, the large declines in price levels
and the earnings of capital which have taker place since
that date. The period for which the ordinance fixed the
rate extends from April 19, i[928, to April 19, 1933. At
least three of the five years are those of declining prices
and diminishing capital returns. Since the commission's
order was based on known income for four of the five
years, the possibly lowered revenues of the fifthi year cannot be taken to off-set the effect of the declining prices
and capital returns. The record gives no hint of what
the rate base would be were it ascertained for the entire
period. While the Commission and the Ohio courts are
bound to adopt a rate base determined as of the beginning
of the ordinance period, this'does not relieve the com-

WEST OHIO GAS CO. v. COMM'N. (NO. 2).

79

Counsel for Parties.

63

pany of the burden of showing that the value of the property for the entire period is such that the net return*under
the Commission's rates would have been so low as to confiscate its property. Sce Los Angeles Gas & Electric Cor'p.
v. Railroad Commission, 289 U. S. 287, 304. No contention is made that the Ohio procedure precludes such proof
or that it prevented petitioner from showing facts which
would establish confiscation.
WEST OHIO GAS CO. v. PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF OHIO.

(No. 2).

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF OHIO.

No. 213.

Submitted December 7, 1934.-Decided January 7, 1935.

1. In fixing the rates of a public utility for a series of past years, it is
contrary to due process to adopt the gross income and operating
expenses of the first year as an exclusive standard or test for the
period, and to ignore unimpeached evidence of the gross income and
operating expenses of later years. To prefer forecast to experience
in such cases is arbitrary. P. 81.
2. A prediction, mere guesswork, that lower rates prescribed for a.'
public utility will ultimately increase its profits by increasing its
business, cannot atone for present confiscation. P. 82.
3. Other questions presented in this case are disposed of by the 9pinion in the case preceding.
128 Ohio St. 301; 191 N. E. 105, reversed.
APPEAL from a judgment affirming an order of the Public Utilities Commission, which fixed rates of the Gas
Company in the City of Kenton, Ohio. See ante, p. 63.

Messrs. Edmond W. Hebel, Harry 0. Bentley, and
Charles C. Marshall submitted for appellant.
Mr. John W. Bricker, Attorney General of Ohio, and
Mr. Donald C. Power, Assistant Attorney General, submitted for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

294 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The rates to be charged by the appellant in Kenton,
Ohio, are the subject matter of this controversy.
An ordinance adopted by the city council of Kenton on
July 16, 1929, effective on August 16, prescribed a schedule
of rates within the city for a period of two years. The
appellant, West Ohio Gas Company, filed a complaint
with the Public Utilities Commission, maintaining its
existing schedule for the time being and giving bond as
it had done in the Lima case (ante, 63), for the return
of the excess, if any. The commission fixed the value of
the property in Kenton for the purpose of a rate base
at $189,856.56. The company acquiesced in the valuation,
which for the purpose of this review must be accepted as
correct. Thereafter, on March 10, 1933, the commission
made a final order determining the ordinance schedule
to be unjust and unreasonable, and establishing a new
schedule, which was to be effective during the period of
the ordinance (August 16, 1929 to August 16, 1931) and
a year and a half afterwards (i. e., till February 16, 1933).
Collections during the course of the proceeding in excess
of the new rates were to be refunded to consumers. A
motion for a rehearing having been denied, the company
filed a petition in error with the Supreme Court of Ohio,
asserting that the order of the commission was in contravention of the limitations of the Fourteenth Amendment. The Supreme Court of Ohio affirmed, writing a
single opinion here and in the Lima case. 128 Ohio St.
301; 191 N. E. 105. An appeal to this court followed.
The intention of the conmission was to establish a
schedule of charges that would enable the appellant to
receive a return of 6% upon the value of the Kenton
property. To accomplish that result there was need of

WEST OHIO GAS CO. v. COMM'N. (NO. 2).
79

81

Counsel for Parties.

a net income of $11,391.39. As the result of mathematical
errors, the commission arrived at the conclusion that income in that amount had been earned in 1929, the year
chosen as a standard. In fact the rate of return for that
year was only 4.92%, even if all contested rulings in respect of points of law are assumed to be correct.
Errors of computation such as these are far from exhausting the list of defects in these proceedings. There
are others more clearly vital. To ascertain the gross
income and the operating expenses the commission confined itself to the business in 1929, predicting on that
basis the income and expenses to be looked for in the
years to follow. Besides the figures for 1929, there was
evidence, full and unchallenged, as to the actual revenue
and outlay for 1930 and 1931. The commission refused
to give any heed to that evidence in fixing the new rates.
It did this in the face of a petition for rehearing which
sharply brought to its attention the. effect of such exclusion. If heed had been given to the later years, the return for 1930 would have been seen to be 4.23% and for
1931, only 3.68%, all this, moreover, on the assumption
that further error was not committed in the classification or disallowance of operating charges. If such error
existed, the return would be even lower.
We think the adoption of a single year as an exclusive
test or standard imposed upon the company an arbitrary
restriction in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment and of "the rudiments of fair play'" made necessary thereby. West Ohio Ga Co. v. Public Utilities
Commission of Ohio (appeal No. 1), decided herewith,
ante, p. 63; Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Polt, 232
U. S. 165, 168. The earnings of -the later years were exhibited in the record and told their own tale as to the
possibilities of profit. To shut one's eyes .to them altogether, to exclude them from the reckoning, is as much

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

arbitrary action as to build a schedule upon guesswork
with evidence available. There are times, to be sure,
when resort to prophecy becomes inevitable in default of
methods more precise. At such times,. "an honest and
intelligent forecast of probable future values made upon
a view of all the relevant circumstances" (Southwestern
Bell Telephone Co. v. Public Service Commission of Missouri, 262 U. S. 276, 288; Los Angeles Gas & Electric
Corp. v. Public Service Commission of California, 289
U. S. 287, 311), is the only organon at hand, and hence
the only one to be employed in order to make the hearing fair. But prophecy, however honest, is generally a
poor substitute for experience. "Estimates for tomorrow
cannot ignore prices of today." Southwestern Bell Telephone Co. v. Public Service Commission of Missouri,
supra, at p. 288. We have said of an attempt by a utility
to give prophecy the first place and experience the second
that " elaborate calculations which are at war with realities are of no avail." Lindheimer v. Illinois Bell Telephone Co., 292 U. S. 151, 164. We say the same of a
like attempt by officers of government prescribing rates
to be effective in years when experience has spoken. A
forecast gives us one rate. A survey gives another. To
prefer the forecast to the survey is an arbitrary judgment.
In the light of this conclusion we find it needless to
dwell upon more particular objections affecting the classification and disallowance of payments which, in the view
of the appellant, are charges upon the expenses of operation. For the most part the objections are similar to
those considered in number 212, decided herewith. What
has been said in that case will guide the commission and
the state court in the event of a rehearing.
We are not unmindful of the argument urged by counsel for the commission that the effect of lower prices may
be to swell the volume of the business, and by thus in-

DETROIT BRIDGE CO. v. TAX BOARD.

83

Counsel for Parties.

79

creasing revenues enhance the ultimate return. Upon
the record as it comes to us, this is guesswork, and no
more. There'has been no attempt to measure the possible enhancement by appeal to the experience of other
companies similarly situated or by any other line of proof.
Present confiscation is not atoned for by merely holding
out the hope of a better life to come.
The decree is reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
DETROIT INTERNATIONAL BRIDGE CO, v.
CORPORATION TAX APPEAL BOARD OF
MICHIGAN'
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 272.

Argued December 14, 1934.-Decided January 14, 1935.

By owning and operating a toll bridge over which pedestrians and
vehicles pass between this country and Canada, a corporation does
not itself engage in foreign commerce, and therefore a state tax on
its privilege to be a corporation and exercise its functions, measured upon paid up capital and surplus, is not inconsistent with the
commerce clause of the Constitution. Hendersbn Bridge Co. v.
Kentucky, 166 U. S. 150. P. 86.
267 Mich. 384; 255 N. W, 368, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment sustaining an order of the Corporation Tax Appeal Board, which in turn sustained the
action of the Secretary of State of Michigan, in laying a
privilege tax on the appellant corporation.

Mr. Victor W. Klein, with whom Messrs. Alfred A. Cook
and Thomas G. Long were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Patrick H. O'Brien, Attorney General of Michigan,
and Mrs. Alice E. Alexander for appellee.

