OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Counsel for Parties.

294 U. S.

LERNER v. FIRST WISCONSIN NATIONAL BANK

OF MILWAUKEE

ET AL.*

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 292.

Argued January 11, 1935.-Decided February 4, 1935.

Under General Order in Bankruptcy No. XXXII, as amended, a creditor opposing a discharge must file his specification of the grounds
of his opposition on the day when the creditors are required to
show cause; an extension of time beyond that date can not be
granted by the court. P. 119.
70 F. (2d) 938, reversed.
73 F. (2d) 56, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 293 U. S. 543, 550, to review two conflicting
decisions upon the power to extend the time within which
creditors must file specifications of their opposition to discharges in bankruptcy.

Mr. Emil Hersh for Lerner.
Messrs. Edgar L. Wood and John C. Warner, filed a
brief on behalf of the First Wisconsin National Bank.
Messrs. Walter J. Mattison and Ben Z. Glass filed a
brief on behalf of Rakita et al., respondents in No. 292.
Mr. Howard Myers, with whom Mr. Saul S. Myers was
on the brief, for the Lawyers County Trust Co.
Mr. Meyer Marlow, with whom Mr. Selig C. Brez was
on the brief, for Reichert et al.
Together with No. 496, Lawyers County Trust Co. v. Reichert
et al. Certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit.
*

LERNER v. FIRST WISCONSIN .BANK.
116

117

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These causes require consideration of General Order
in Bankruptcjr No. XXXII, as amended, effective April
24, 1933, 288 U. S.632. This Order, as it stood before
that day, and the amendments then adopted, follow. Deleted words are within the brackets; words added are
italicized.
"XXXII. Opposition to Discharge or Composition or
extensi n.
"A creditor opposing [the] an application [of a bankrupt] for [his] discharge, or for the confirmation of a
composition or extension proposal,shall enter his appearance in opposition thereto on the day when the creditors
are required to show cause, and shall at the same time file
a specification in writing of the grounds of his opposition
[within ten days thereafter, unless the time shall be
shortened or enlarged by special order of the judge]."
Whether, under the amended order, Bankruptcy Courts
may permit a creditor opposing an application for discharge to file written specifications showing the grounds
of his opposition after "the day when creditors are required to show cause," is the question for determination.
In No. 292 the Circuit Court of Appeals, Seventh Circuit, held that when good cause is shown, such an extension may be granted. In No. 496 the Circuit Court of
Appeals, Second Circuit, ruled to the contrary. The latter court, we think, reached the proper conclusion. Reversal of the challenged judgment must follow in No.
292; affirmance in No. 496.
The purpose of the 1933 amendments to Order No.
XXXII was to prevent continuation of abuses then
apparent.
The so-called "Donovan Report," March 22, 1930, on
"Administration of Bankrupt Estates," printed (1931)

118

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

for the House Judiciary Committee, 71st Congress, 3rd
Session, p. 116, stated:
"An unscrupulous creditor who desires to get something more than the others may be tempted to file a
notice of appearance (a simple 4-line document) at the
time of the hearing on confirmation, knowing that this
will hold up the entire proceeding for at least another
10 days even if he does not follow up the notice of appearanc6 with detailed specifications of objection. During this 10-day period he may hope to get paid off by the
bankrupt. If the bankrupt refuses or is unable to strike
a bargain, the creditor may then file his specifications of
objection, so that the bankrupt will face another three
weeks' delay, during the process of which he may be
finally induced to come to terms."
Reporting on " Bankruptcy Law and Practice," (Dec.
8, 1931), Senate Document No. 65, 72nd Congress, 1st
Session, (p. 16), the Attorney General asserted:
"The clerks of 72 district courts reported to us that,
out of the 49,928 cases closed by them in the fiscal year
1930, 27,426 applications for discharge had been disposed
of.
"In only 1,042 of these cases individual creditors at the
time of the hearing before the judge on the bankrupt's
application filed notices of appearance stating that they
intended to oppose the discharge. Under General Order
XXXII, these creditors were then required to file specifications in writing within 10 days, setting forth the
grounds of this opposition, upon the filing of which- the
issues would be tried.
"But in 330 of these 1,042 cases the creditors did not
follow up their notices of appearance by filing written
specifications. Why?
"Presumably, because the creditors were either bought
off by the bankrupt as already described, or because indifferent, or were unwilling to incur further expense. . ....

LERNER v. FIRST WISCONSIN BANK.
116

119

Opinion of the Court.

By memorandum of April 3, 1933, submitted to us,
Solicitor General Thacher, who had devoted much time
and thought to bankruptcy proceedings, suggested certain
amendments and additions to the General Orders-among
them, those to No. XXXII adopted as above shown.
After referring to the passages from Congressional publications, which we have quoted, he declared:
" For these reasons it is recommended with respect both
to discharges and to compositions that the specifications
of opposition should be filed with the appearances. Ample
time is afforded by the Act to opposing parties to obtain
their evidence and make up their minds. Under Section 58 creditors must be given at least 30 days' notice of
all applications for discharge, and may after receipt of
the notice, if they have not done so already, examine the
bankrupt and other parties under Section 21 (a). Under
compositions creditors may examine the bankrupt or
debtor at the first meeting and at any time thereafter
under Section 21 (a), and must be given at least ten days'
notice of the application for confirmation."
Having considered the facts, thus brought to our attention, and those otherwise known, it seemed proper to
adopt the suggested amendment to Order XXXII.
The language of the amended Order is mandatory; it
is controlling in circumstances like those here presented;
strict compliance should be accorded. Under Order
XXXVII, and permissive provisions of the Bankruptcy
Act, we think the courts may exercise discretion sufficient
for the successful conduct of proceedings in varying circumstances. Thus, while an objecting creditor must file
specifications showing the grounds of his opposition on
the day when creditors are required to show cause, that
(lay may be fixed or postponed by the court in view of
the existing situation.
No. 4f96 Affirmed.
No. 292 Reversed.

