ADAMS v. CHAMPION.
227

Syllabus.

United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co., supra. Section
350(1) of the code is to the effect that in the event of
insolvency a creditor in the situation of the plaintiff shall
be entitled to a preference. As applied to a national bank
the preference is unlawful. Jeimings v. United States
Fidelity & Guaranty Co., supra.
The decree should be affirmed, and it is so ordered.
Affirmed.
ADAMS, RECEIVER, v. CHAMPION, TRUSTEE IN
BANKRUPTCY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 374. Argued January 17, 1935.-Decided February 4, 1935.
1. A suit by a trustee in bankruptcy to recover, under § 60 (b) of
the Bankruptcy Act, property, or the value of property, which the
debtor transferred to a creditor, is maintainable at law; but if
prosecuted in equity without objection the same relief may be
decreed. P. 234.
2. A national bank accepted a pledge of securities as collateral for
an existing debt, with reasonable cause to believe that a preference
would be effected, within the meaning of § 60 (b) of the Bankruptcy Act. The debtor became a bankrupt within four months;
and, while the bankruptcy proceedings were pending but before
the trustee had made any demand upon it based on § 60 (b), the
bank disposed of the securities for fair value to some of its
depositors, receiving payment, not in' cash, but by accepting their
checks drawn on itself and charging them against their accounts.
Some months later the trustee sued the bank to avoid the preferences and, after a protracted litigation, he obtained a decree for
the value of the securities. Although the bank had become insolvent and was placed in the hands of a receiver six months before
the decree was entered, the receiver had not been made a party.
Afterwards, the trustee sought an order requiring the receiver to
pay the amount claimed, as a preferred charge upon the bank's

assets. Held:
(1) That the acceptance of the securities and their subsequent
disposition for fair value, before the trustee in bankruptcy had

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

elected to avoid the preferences, were not wrongful acts on the
part of the bank, and the bank was not chargeable as a trustee
ex maleficio. P. 235.
(2) The bank, when it accepted payment for the securities by
cancelling to an equivalent extent debts due by it to the depositors
who acquired them, was under no present duty to set up a trust
of the proceeds, and as it had then a solvent, going business, and
made the transfer without fraudulent or obstructive purpose, there
is no reason why the transaction should be treated retrospectively
as something other than it was meant to be. P. 236.
(3) When the transfer was avoided, the bank became chargeable like any common law debtor with a duty of restitution to the'
extent of the value of the property disposed of. P. 237.
(4) The assets of the bank in the hands of the receiver are not
subject to a trust in favor of the trustee in bankruptcy. P. 238.
70 F. (2d) 956, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 293 U. S. 547, to review the affirmance of
a decree imposing a frust on the funds of an insolvent
national bank at the suit of a trustee in bankruptcy.
Mr. John F. Anderson, with whom Messrs. F. G. Awalt

and George P. Barse were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Harry C. Heyl submitted for respondent.
By leave of Court, Messrs. F. G. Awalt and George P.

Barse filed a brief on behalf of the Comptroller of the
Currency, as amicus curiae.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO delivered the opinion of the

Court.
A trustee in bankruptcy asserts. a claim against the
receiver of a national bank for the value of property
received by the bank as an unlawful preference. The receiver admits the validity of the claim if it is placed upon
the same level as the claims of creditors at large. The
trustee insists that the claim must have priority on the
ground that the avails of the unlawful preference are
subject to a trust.

ADAMS v. CHAMPION.
231

233

Opinion of the Court.

In September, 1928, the bankrupt, John Fitzgerald, had
overdrawn his deposit. account with the Farmers National
Bank of Pekin, Illinois, and was also indebted to the bank
upon promissory notes. In response to a demand for collateral security he delivered to the bank notes of other
persons, as well as a certificate of stock, the whole of the
face or par value of about $35,000. Most of the securities so delivered have been returned to the trustee and are
not in controversy now. Four items only are the subject
of this suit.
The bank received from Fitzgerald on September 7,
1928, a certificate for ten shares of its own stock, a promissory note of Charles Graff for $3,000, a promissory note
of W. C. Sommer for $1,000, and notes or bonds of
Veesaert for $5,000, reduced later by $1,597.31 paid upon
account. Within a period of four months (on October
26, 1928), creditors of Fitzgerald filed a petition in bankruptcy, an adjudication following in November of that
year. No election was made by the trustee in bankruptcy to reclaim the collateral as an unlawful preference till July 20, 1929, or if there was an earlier election,
it is not shown by the record. In the meantime the bank,
which continued as a going concern until January, 1932,
had disposed of three of the contested items of security as
follows: On February 9, 1929, after having credited the
bankrupt with a dividend of $30, it sold the ten shares of
its own stock to one Cullinan, a depositor. The price was
$3,000, by concession the fair value. Payment was ,.fected by charging the deposit account of the pure, se.'
with what was owing for the shares. On April 12, 1929,
the bank collected $3,183.78 upon the note of Charles
Graff by charging that amount against the deposit bal,ance to his credit. On April 16, 1929, it collected
$1,059.98 upon the note of W. C. Sommer by a charge
against his balance. Nothing was ieceived upon the
Veesaert bonds, the fourth contested item, till December,

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

1930. The bank then had a payment on account to the
extent of $1,597.31, the payment being made by the deposit of a check to its credit in the First National Bank of
Chicago Illinois. The balance in that account was afterwards reduced to $776.57, which latter amount, together
with the bonds themselves, the receiver stands ready to
transfer to the trustee.
The election by the trustee to reclaim the collateral
securities in behalf of the estate was announced, as we
have seen, on July 20, 1929, and was manifested by the
beginning of a suit for appropriate relief. No charge was
made that the transaction was voidable for any actual
fraud. The suit was under § 60b of the National Bankruptcy Act (11 U. S. C. § 96) upon the ground that the
effect of the transaction was to prefer one creditor over
others, and that the creditor, the- bank, had reasonable
cause to believe that such effect would follow.* Under
Schoenthal v. Irving Trust Co., 287 U. S. 92, an action'
at law could have been maintained for the recovery of
the property or its value. Without objection, however,
the suit was tried in equity. Cf. Buffum v. Peter Barceloux Co., 289 U. S. 227, 235. It ended on June 24, 1932,
in a decree invalidating the transactions of September 7,
1928, as constituting a forbidden preference, and directing
the return of the securities, or the value of such as had
been converted into money.
During the years of litigation the bank had suffered
reverses, and on January 8, 1932, it was closed by the
* "If a bankrupt shall . . .have made a transfer of any of his

property, and if, at the time of the transfer, . . .and . . . within
four months before the filing of the petition in bankruptcy . . .the
bankrupt be insolvent and the . . . transfer then operate as a preference, and the person receiving it or to be benefited thereby, or his
agent acting therein, shall then have reasonable cause to believe that
the enforcement of such . . .transfer would effect a preference, it
shall be voidable by the trustee and he may recover the property or
its value from such person ... ." § 60b; 11 U. S. C. § 96.

ADAMS v. CHAMPION.
231

Opinion of the Court.

Comptroller of the Currency. The receiver appointed by
the Comptroller was not a party to the suit to invalidate
the preference. After the entry of a decree, the trustee
in bankruptcy petitioned for an order instructing the receiver that the four contested items were a preferred
charge upon the assets, and that payment should be made
accordingly. The District Court granted the relief prayed
for, and upon appeal to the Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit the order was affirmed. 70 F. (2d) 956.
A writ of certiorari issued from this court.
If we except a small item conceded by the receiver, we
think the reasons are inadequate for the imposition of a
trust in the nature of a preference upon the funds of this
insolvent bank.
1. For convenience the first of the contested items, the
proceeds of the stock certificate, will be considered by
itself, the conclusion appropriate for this item being typical of the conclusion appropriate for the others.
The acceptance by the bank of the certificate delivered
by Fitzgerald on September 7, 1928, was not a wrongful
act whereby the bank forthwith became subject to the
duties and liabililties of a trustee ex maleficio. One who
acquires a security with reasonable cause to believe that
the effect will be a preference does not from that alone
become a party to a fraud. Van Iderstine v. National
Discount Co., 227 U. S. 575, 582; Watson v. Adams, 242
Fed. 441, 444, 445; Dean v. Davis, 242 U. S. 438, 444;
Keppel v. Tiffin Savings Bank, 197 U. S. 356; Carson v.
Federal Reserve Bank, 254 N. Y. 218, 234; 172 N. E. 475.
If bankruptcy is averted altogether, or postponed beyond
four months, the security will stand, though a preference
was intended at the time of its acceptance. So also a
change of assets or liabilities before bankruptcy arrives
may mean the difference between a preference and a
ratable division. Haas v. Sachs, 68 F. (2d) 623; Irving
Trust Co. v. Townsend, 65 F. (2d) 406, 408; Mansfield

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

Lumber Co. v. Sternberg, 38 F. (2d) 614, 617; Rogers v.
Page, 140 Fed. 596, 606; In re Henry C. King Co., 113
Fed. 110, 111; Rubenstein v. Lottow, 223 Mass. 227, 229,
et seq.; 111 N. E. 973. The bank took the risk that in
future and indeterminate contingencies it might be compelled to return what it accepted or the value. At the
outset it was not a trustee ex maleficio or otherwise. It
was a bailee and nothing more.
If a trust was not created in September, 1928, through
the acceptance of a security which has turned out to be
a preference, none was in existence on February 9, 1929,
when part of that security, the certificate of stock, was
delivered to a purchaser. True, by that time the debtor
was in bankruptcy, but the other uncertainties, for anything here shown, were as indefinite as ever. The accurate determination of assets and liabilities had still to
wait upon the process.of proof and liquidation. At most
the security was voidable, not void, and the trustee up
to that time had made no move to avoid it. A suit would
have been a sufficient election, even though not preceded
by a demand (Eau Claire National Bank v. Jackman, 204
U. S. 522, 534, 535; Stephens v. PittsburghPlate Glass
Co., 36 F. (2d) 953), but as yet there had been no suit,
nor statement that a suit was coming. To turn the bank
into a wrongdoer in the absence of actual fraud, to charge
it with all the liabilities growing out of a constructive
trust, there was need of some act of avoidance that would
put the brand of guilt upon it. Cf. Boyd v. Dunlap, 1
Johns. Ch. 478, 482, per Kent, Ch. We hear of no such
act till July, 1929, when the trustee in bankruptcy brought
suit to declare the preference a nullity.
The sale of the stock certificate to Cullinan on February 9, 1929, must be approached and Considered in the
light of the relation then existing. There was then no

ADAMS v. CHAMPION.
231

Opinion of the Court.

trust ex maleficio, whereby the bank was chargeable as
a wrongdoer for parting with the shares. There was no
trust implied in fact, unless it be the fiduciary obligation
assumed by a bailee to act with prudence and fidelity in
the disposition of the pledge. The trustee does not assert
that this obligation has been violated. On the contrary he
concedes that the price was equal to the value. With its
duty thus defined and measured, the bank agreed with
Cullinan to accept payment of the price by canceling to an
equivalent extent the debt due him as a depositor. Cf.
Jennings v. United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co., ante,
p. 216; Old Company's Lehigh, Inc. v. Meeker, ante, p. 227.
We do not need to consider whether effect would be given
to such an agreement according to its form if the bank
at that time had been under a present duty to set up a
trust as to the proceeds to the use of the bankrupt or of
the trustee as his successor. For the purposes of this case
we assume, though we do not hold, that a trust in that
event would attach to the cash assets in the vaults to an
equivalent amount. A different result follows when there
is neither trust to be set up nor wilful wrong to be repaired. The bank, when it parted with the certificate,
had a solvent, going business, and did not make the transfer with any fraudulent or obstructive purpose. There
is no reason in such circumstances why the transaction
should be treated retrospectively as something other than
it was meant to be. Jennings v. United States Fidelity
& Guaranty Co., supra. Equity fashions a trust with
flexible adaptation to the call of the occasion.
Other remedies were at hand sufficient for the needs of
justice. When the preference was avoided, the bank became chargeable like any common law debtor with a duty
of restitution to the extent of the value of the property
disposed of. There might even be a duty, if the proceeds

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

were intact, to make return in specie. But what is here
sought is very different. By a process of analysis a unitary transaction, the cancellation of a debt to a depositor,
is treated as if split up into two parts, a fictitious withdrawal by the depositor of coin or other currency, and its
return to the bank to be applied upon the purchase.
The money so returned is then subjected to a trust and
though mingled with other money is viewed as retaining
its identity so long as any portion of the fund is discovered to be intact. These fictions and presumptions may
serve well enough in their application to one whose act
is against equity and conscience at the time of its commission. They may be implements of justice in cases of
theft or actual fraud. So, at least, we now assume. In
circumstances less flagrant, they will be used more charily.
They will not be so applied as to impose a trust by relation upon moneys that have entered into "the stream
of the firm's general property" (Holmes, J., in National
City Bank v. Hotchkiss, 231 U. S. 50, 57), and are distinguishable no longer.
For nearly three years after the sale of this stock, the
situation stood unchanged. An adequate remedy against
the bank through the recovery of an ordinary money
judgment belonged to the trustee continuously, and this
whether the award of the value was to be at law or in
equity. Schoenthal v. Irving Trust Co., supra; Buffum
v. Peter Barceloux Co., supra. There was no attempt
during those years to separate the' proceeds of the sale
from other assets through an injunction or a receivership,
nor any hint of a desire to charge a trust upon the pro-*
ceeds. Not till the suit was'at an end and the .bank
was in the hands of the Comptroller of the Currency did
the respondent shift his theory and turn a debt into a
trust. By that time new duties had arisen, new interests had intervened. The assets of the bank were now

ADAMS v. CHAMPION.
231

Opinion of the Court.

held by the receiver upon a trust for equal distribution.
Cf. Wisdom v. Keen, 69 F. (2d) 349, 350; Fera v. Wickham, 135 N. Y. 223, 230; 31 N. E. 1028; Gerseta Corp.
v. Equitable Trust Co., 241 N. Y. 418, 425; 150 N. E.
The shift had come too late.
501.
2. What has been said as to the sale of the stock certificate to Cullinan applies with equal force to the second
and third of the contested items, the Graff and Sommer
notes.
The collections on these notes were made in April, 1929.
They were made, not in cash received over the counter,
but by cancellation of a debt owing to the makers upon
their deposit balance in the bank. There was neither
trust, nor claim of trust, until the bank had suspended,
and was in the hands of a receiver.
3. The fourth contested item, the collection on the
Veesaert bonds, differs from the others in that the payment was received after the trustee in bankruptcy had
elected to avoid the preference and had sued for that
relief.
The payment was made as we have seen, by the deposit of $1,597.31 in the Pirst National Bank of Chicago,
Illinois.
The balance in that account was reduced in 1931 to
$776.57. What became of the difference ($820.74) there
is nothing to inform us. Evidence is lacking that it was
withdrawn in such a form or for such purposes as to be
represented by any assets forming part of the estate today.
The receiver consents that this item of $776.57, the balance in the Chicago bank, be paid to the respondent as a
preferred charge upon the fund.
The decree is reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.
Reversed.

