CENTRAL VERMONT CO. v. DURNING.

33

Syllabus.
CENTRAL VERMONT TRANSPORTATION CO. v.
DURNING, COLLECTOR OF CUSTOMS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 247. Argued December 13, 1934.-Decided January 7, 1935.
1. A vessel owned by a Maine corporation, the stock of which is owned

by a Vermont corporation, whose shares, with the voting power, are
in turn vested in a Canadian corporation, is not "a vessel ...
owned by persons who are citizens of the United States," within
the meaning of § 27 of the Merchant Marine Act, 1920, prohibiting
the transportation of merchandise, on penalty of its forfeiture, between points in the United States, by water, or by land and water,
in a vessel other than one "owned by persons who are citizens of
the United States." P. 37.
So held in view of §§ 37 and 38 of this Act (the latter amending
§ 2 of the Shipping Act of 1916) whereby the interests required to
be held by citizens in order that a corporation may- be deemed "a
citizen of the United States" are defined.
2. The proviso of § 27 of the Merchant Marine Act, exempting from
its operation "merchandise transported between points within the
continental United States, excluding Alaska, over through routes
heretofore or hereafter recognized by the Interstate Commerce Commission for which routes rate tariffs have been or shall hereafter be
filed with said Commission when such routes are in part over
Canadian rail lines and their own or other connecting water facilities . . .," does not apply to merchandise shipped from St. Albans,

Vt., to New London, Conn., by rail, and thence by water to New
York City, even though the route be part of a through route which
elsewhere embraces Canadian rail lines and for which tariffs were
filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission. P. 37.
3. An interpretation of the proviso which would enable foreign-owned
vessels to carry merchandise in coastwise traffic, over routes wholly
within the United States, by the expedient of filing tariffs showing
participation in through routes extending over Canadian railways,
would go beyond its purpose and in large measure defeat the prohibition of § 27. P. 39.
4. The fact that a carrier by water is subject to the jurisdiction of the
Interstate Commerce Commission, by virtue of the provisions of
112536°.--35--3

34

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

the Interstate Commerce Act which extend its application "to the
transportation of passengers or property .

.

. partly by railroad

and partly by water when both are used under a common control,
management, or arrangement for a continuous carriage of shipment" and which authorize the Commission to establish through
routes and maximum joint rates over such rail and water lines and
to determine " the terms and conditions under which such lines shall
be operated in the handling of the traffic embraced," held not to
exempt it from the operation of § 27 of the Merchant Marine Act.
P. 40.
5. The application of § 27 of the Merchant Marine Act to a foreigncontrolled corporation-Shipping Act of 1916, § 2, as amended by
§ 38 of the Merchant Marine Act and made applicable by § 37 of
that Act-which had not theretofore been subjected to the prohibition there reenacted, and though it will result in the loss of a substantial part of the business of the corporation, does not deprive it
of its property without due process of law in violation of the Fifth
Amendment. P. 41.
71 F. (2d) 273, affirmed.
CERTIORARI*

to review a judgment which reversed an

interlocutory order of the District Court restraining the
seizure and forfeiture of merchandise alleged to have been
transported in violation of § 27 of the Merchant Marine
Act.
Messrs. J. W. Redmond and Horace H. Powers for
petitioner.
Assistant Attorney GeneralSweeney, with whom Solicitor General Biggs and Messrs. Paul A. Sweeney and M.
Leo Looney, Jr., were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This suit in equity was brought by petitioner in the district court for southern New York, to restrain respondent,
a United States customs officer, from seizing merchandise
transported by petitioner's vessels in coastwise traffic, in
* See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

CENTRAL VERMONT CO. v. DURNING.
33

35

Opinion of the Court.

alleged violation of § 27 of the Merchant Marine Act of
June 5, 1920, c. 250, 41 Stat. 988, 999, 46 U. S. C., § 883.
An interlocutory order of the district court restraining the
seizure and forfeiture of the merchandise thus transported
was reversed and set aside by the Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit, on the ground that the transportation was
a plain violation of the statute. 71 F. (2d) 273. This
Court granted certiorari upon a petition which the government, considering the question one of importance, did
not oppose.
Petitioner is a Maine corporation, engaged in operating
a steamship line on Long Island Sound between New London, Connecticut, and New York City, employing vessels
built in the United States and documented under its laws.
All of petitioner's shares of stock, with the exception of
directors' qualifying shares, are owned and held by the
Central Vermont Railway, Inc., a Vermont corporation,
which is an interstate rail carrier, with its railroad extending northward from New London to points in Connecticut,
Massachusetts and Vermont. The Railway's stock, except
directors' qualifying shares, is held in turn by the Canadian National Railway Company, a Canadian corporation. The acquisition of stock of petitioner by the Central Vermont Railway, Inc. and of the latter's stock by
the Canadian National Railway Company were duly approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission. 40
I. C. C. 589; 158 I. C. C. 397, 405, 406.
Petitioner and Central Vermont Railway, Inc., maintain a line for transportation of merchandise by rail and
water, by continuous carriage, between points in the New
England states and New York City. About two-thirds of
the freight passing over the line either originates at points
in the northwestern states and is routed over Canadian
rail lines and thence over the Central Vermont rail and
water line to New York City or passes over the same route
in the other direction. These through routes have been

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

recognized by the Interstate Commerce Commission and
tariffs for them have been filed with the Commission. The
remainder of the traffic originates in New England or New
York City and moves between those points. All the
freight which moves by petitioner's boats between New
London and New York City is therefore transported over
the whole or some part of a through route recognized by
the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Respondent has seized merchandise which had been
shipped over the Central Vermont from St. Albans, Vermont, to New London and carried thence by petitioner's
vessel to New York City, and threatens to seize other
articles carried by petitioner's vessels upon shipments between points in New England and New York City. Petitioner contends that the threatened seizures, which will
work irreparable injury to its business, are unauthorized
by § 27 because: (a) not within its prohibition; (b) it
does not apply to petitioner or the merchandise which it
transports, because of the paramount and therefore exclusive jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission over the traffic in which petitioner participates; and
(c), if applicable to them, it infringes the due process
clause of the Fifth Amendment.
1. Section 27 of the Merchant Marine Act prohibits the
transportation of merchandise, under penalty of its forfeiture, "by water, or by land and water," between points
in the United States "in any other vessel than a vessel
built in and documented under the laws of the United
States and owned by persons who are citizens of the
United States, . . . Provided, That this section shall not
apply to merchandise transported between points within
the continental United States, excluding Alaska, over
through routes heretofore or hereafter recognized by the
Interstate Commerce Commission for which routes rate
tariffs have been or shall hereafter be filed with said Commission when such routes are in part over Canadian rail

CENTRAL VERMONT CO. v. DURNING.
33

37

Opinion of the Court.

lines and their own or other connecting water facilities. ..."
The vessels of petitioner are not owned by persons who
are citizens of the United States within the meaning of
the Merchant Marine Act. Section 38, when read with
§'37, provides that within the meaning of the Act "no
corporation . . . shall be deemed a citizen of the United
States unless the controlling interest therein is owned by
citizens of the United States . . . but in the case of a
corporation . . . operating any vessel in the coastwise
trade the amount of interest required to be owned by
citizens of the United States shall-be 75 per centum."
Subdivision (b) of the section declares: "The controlling
interest in a corporation shall not be deemed to be owned
by citizens of the United States (a) if the title to a majority of the stock thereof is not vested in such citizens
free from any trust or fiduciary obligation in favor of any
person not a citizen of the United States; or (b) if the
majority of the voting power in such corporation is not
vested in citizens of the United States; or (c) if through
any contract or understanding it is so arranged that the
majority of the voting power may be exercised, directly
or indirectly, in behalf of any person who is not a citizen
of the United States; or (d) if by any other means whatsoever control of the corporation is conferred upon or
permitted to be exercised by any person who is not a
citizen of the United States." Under these provisions the
stock of petitioner, owned by a Vermont corporation,
whose stock in turn is owned and its voting power vested
in a Canadian corporation, is not "owned by persons who
are citizens of the United States."
It is said that the merchandise transported by petitioner's vessels is freed from the prohibition of § 27 by
the proviso that it shall not apply to merchandise transported over through routes recognized by the Interstate
Commerce Commission, where such routes are in part over

38

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

Canadian rail lines. It is true that all merchandise transported on petitioner's vessels between New London and
New York is transported over a part of such through
routes as are exempted by the proviso. But the proviso
does not speak of transportation merely over a domestic
segment of a through route which elsewhere embraces Canadian rail lines. The immunity which it grants is to
merchandise transported " over" the through routes described. Even though the merchandise carried between
points in New England and New York City by rail and
water line might be said to be transported on a through
route which embraces Canadian rail lines, it plainly is not
transported over the route.
The construction for which petitioner contends does
violence to the words of the statute and would thwart its
purpose. The policy declared by the enacting clause, and
restated in the first section, of the Merchant Marine Act,
is "to provide for the promotion and maintenance of an
American merchant marine." The policy has found expression in the enactment of a series of statutes, beginning with the first year of the government, which have imposed restrictions of steadily increasing rigor on the transportation of freight in coastwise traffic -by vessels not
owned by citizens of the United States.' The Act of
March 1, 1817, c. 31, 3 Stat. 351, forbade shipment in foreign vessels between ports in the United States. The Act
,of February 15, 1893, c. 117, 27 Stat. 455, prohibited shipment in foreign vessels from one part of the United States
'See c. 2, § 5, Act of July 4, 1789, 1 Stat. 24, 27; c. 31, § 4,
Act of March 1, 1817, 3 Stat. 351; c. 201, § 20, Act of July 18,
1866, 14 Stat. 178, 182; c. 213, § 4, Act of March 1, 1873, 17 Stat.
482, 483; cf. Treaty with Great Britain of May 8, 1871, 17 Stat.,
Treaties, 67, repealed March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 641; c. 117, Act of
February 15, 1893, 27 Stat. 455; c. 26, Act of February 17, 1898,
30 Stat, 248.

CENTRAL VERMONT CO. v. DURNING.
33

39

Opinion of the Court.

to another via a foreign port; and the Act of February 17,
1898, c. 26, 30 Stat. 248, forbade such shipments "either
directly or via a foreign port, or for any part of the voyage." As these restrictions were thought not to include
transportation that was partly by water and partly by
land, see 30 Op. Atty. Gen. 3, the statute was amended by
the addition in § 27 of the Merchant Marine Act of the
words "or by land and water." The bill for the amendment as originally introduced did not contain the proviso, which was later added in the conference committee.
See Conference Report, H. R. No. 1093, 66th Cong., 2d
Sess., p. 12. The proviso has no other recorded legislative
history, but its evident purpose was to avoid disturbance
of established routes, recognized by the Interstate Commerce Commission as in the public interest, between the
northwestern and eastern states through the lake ports.
In these routes foreign-owned water carriers participated
as well as Canadian and American rail lines. See Application of Grand Trunk Ry. Co. of Canada, 43 I. C. C. 286;
Rail-Lake-and-Rail Rates via Canada, 96 I. C. C. 633.
The proviso obviously would enable American carriers,
participating in such, through routes, to retain the benefits of the traffic which in some instances might otherwise
be diverted to all water transportation by foreign owned
vessels between points in Canada and the United States.
An interpretation of the proviso which would enable
foreign-owned vessels to carry merchandise in coastwise
traffic, over routes wholly within the United States, by
the expedient of filing tariffs showing participation in
through routes extending over Canadian railways, would
go beyond its purpose and in large measure defeat the
prohibition of § 27. Both the words of the statute and
the unmistakable policy of Congress compel the conclusion that the merchandise respondent has seized and
threatens to seize is not within the immunity of the
proviso.

40

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

2. The argument that § 27 of the Merchant Marine
Act does not apply, because petitioner is under the paramount jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission, is based on the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act, which provide (§ 1, Par. (1) (a), 41 Stat. 474)
that the Act shall apply "to the transportation of passengers or property . . . partly by railroad and partly by

water when both are used under a common control, management, or arrangement for a continuous carriage or
shipment," and which authorize (§ 6 (13) (b), 37 Stat.
568) the Commission to establish through routes and
maximum joint rates over such rail and water lines and
to determine the " terms and conditions under which such
lines shall be operated in the handling of the traffic embraced." But these and other sections:of the Interstate
Commerce Act, c. 104, 27 Stat. 379, defining generally
the Commission's authority, which by 9 1, Par. (1) (a),
is extended over such water carriers, are not concerned
with the subject matter of § 27 and do not conflict with
it. The application of its prohibition in terms to any
part of the transportation "by land and water," by a foreign-owned vessel, is not to be erased from the statute
because the Interstate Commerce Commission was not
given authority to enforce it. It is not to be supposed
that Congress, by giving jurisdiction to the Interstate
Comnerce Commission to establish through routes and
maximum joint rates for rail and water lines, intended
to remove from them an unrelated prohibition enacted
March 1, 1817, 3 Stat. 351, repeatedly refnacted, and specifically made applicable in § 27 of the Merchant Marine Act to the transportation of merchandise by foreign
vessels in coastwise traffic "by water or by land and
water." We know of no principle of statutory construction which would admit of such a result.
3. Petitioner, in challenging the constitutionality of
the statute, does not deny the power of Congress to exclude

CENTRAL VERMONT CO. v. DURNING.
33

41

Opinion of the Court.

from coastwise traffic vessels which are foreign-owned or
controlled, regardless of the corporate form which that
control may take. But it points to the loss of its business
which will ensue if § 27 is applied to it, and to the fact
that it established its business with the same corporate
relationships which were only later defined so as to bring
them within the prohibition renacted in § 27. § 38 of
the Merchant Marine Act, amending § 2 of the Shipping
Act of 1916, c. 451, 39 Stat. 728, 729, and made applicable
to the Merchant Marine Act by § 37 of the latter Act.
It insists that the prohibition of § 27, to which it was subjected by the amendment, deprives it of property without due process of law, in violation of the Fifth Amendment.
This contention is answered by the numerous cases in
which this Court has upheld regulations of interstate commerce which have compelled the rail carriers to discontinue parts of their business which had previously been
lawful. New York, N. H. & H. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 200 U. S. 361; United States v. Delaware
& Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366, 415, 416; Delaware, L. & W.
R. Co. v. United States, 231 U. S. 363, 369, 370; Assigned
Car Cdses, 274 U. S. 564, 575. There has been no taking
of petitioner's property. It established its business under
foreign domination, subject to the power of Congress to
regulate it, and in the face of a long established national
policy to restrict such foreign control of coastwise shipping. The amendment of the statute, so as to include
within its prohibition the particular form of foreign control to which petitioner was subject, was no more arbitrary, burdensome or unreasonable than that involved in
the statutes prohibiting transportation by a railroad of
its own commodities. See United States v. Delaware &
Hudson Co., supra, 415; Delaware, L. & W. R. Co. v.
United States, supra, 369, 370.
Affirmed.

