PENN CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
186

Syllabus.

in the possession of the receiver be, with all convenient
speed, surrendered to the Secretary of Banking, the receivers retaining only sufficient of the assets of the defendant association to pay their reasonable fees and any
obligations lawfully incurred by them. Jurisdiction will
be retained by the district court only for that purpose
and for the purpose of promptly discharging the receivers
and settling their accounts, after which the suit will be
dismissed.
Reversed.
PENN GENERAL CASUALTY CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA EX REL. SCHNADER, ATTORNEY GENERAL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 431.

Argued Jaiiuary 11, 14, 1935.-Decided February 4, 1935.

1. Whether, in a suit involving the possession and control of property which is the subject of a suit pending in a federal District
Court, a state court has given proper effect to the proceedings and
order of the federal court, is a federal question reviewable on
appeal. P. 194.
2. It is an established principle, applicable to both federal and state
courts, that where these courts have concurrent jurisdiction of
suits in rem or quasi in rem, the court first assuming jurisdiction
over the property may maintain and exercise that jurisdiction to
the exclusion of the other. This is the settled rule with respect to
suits in equity for the control by receivership of the assets of an
insolvent corporation. P. 195.
3. When the two suits have substantially the same purpose and the
jurisdiction of the courts is concurrent, that one whose jurisdiction
is first invoked by the filing of the bill is treated as in constructive
possession of the property and as authorized to proceed with the
cause, at least where process subsequently issues in due course.
P. 196.
4. The jurisdiction conferred on the federal district courts by the
Constitution and laws of the United States cannot be restricted by
state legislation. P. 197.

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

5. Where the object of a suit in a state court is the liquidation by
a state officer of an insolvent domestic insurance company, and
there is no showing that the interests of creditors and shareholders
will not be adequately protected by this procedure, the case is a
proper one for the federal District Court, in the exercise of judicial
discretion, to relinquish its jurisdiction, though previously acquired,
in favor of the administration by the state officer. Pennsylvania v.
Williams, ante, p. 176. P. 197.
6. Although the federal District Court first acquired jurisdiction of
a suit to liquidate an insolvent insurance corporation, a state court
may properly exercise its jurisdiction to authorize a state officer
to make application to the District Court to relinquish its jurisdiction in favor of the state administration. P. 198.
316 Pa. 1; 173 Atl. 637, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 293 U. S. 547, to review a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania which affirmed a decree
directing the state Insurance Commissioner to take possession of and liquidate the property of an insolvent domestic insurance company. Prior to the institution of proceedings in the state court, a suit for the appointment of
receivers and for an injunction was filed in the federal
District Court, which the state supreme court held was
without jurisdiction.

Mr. Joseph W. Henderson, with whom Messrs. Thomas
F. Mount and George M. Brodhead,Jr., were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Mr. Wm. A. Schnader, Attorney General of Pennsylvania, with whom Mr. Harold D. Saylor, Deputy Attorney
General, was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JusTcIE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case comes here on certiorari, directed" to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, to resolve questions of public importance growing out of the conflicting claims, of
the federal district court and of the Insurance Commis-

PENN CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
189

Opinion of the Court.

sioner of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, to jurisdiction over the liquidation of the business and affairs of
appellant, an insolvent Pennsylvania insurance corporation.
The case was heard in the state supreme court upon
an agreed statement of facts, deemed "necessary to a determination of the question involved in the appeal," which
was filed in the state trial court. It purports to outline
the substance. of proceedings had in that court and in the
federal district court. The question is stated to be
whether the state court, "in view of the prior pendency
of the suit . . . in the Federal court, had jurisdiction to
enter the decree from which this appeal is taken." The
records of the pleadings and proceedings in those courts
are not included in the record and are not before us.
Appellant was organized under the Insurance Company
Law of May 17, 1921, P. L. 682. On September 14, 1933,
appellant's officers and directors appeared at a hearing
before the Insurance Commissioner at which the president of the company was ordered to return to it assets
which he had improperly withdrawn from the company,
with consequent serious impairment of its financial condition. On October 14, 1933, a further hearing was held
before the Attorney General of the state, at which it appeared that the company was in an unsafe and unsound
condition.
On November 17, 1933, a shareholder of the insurance
company filed his bill of complaint against the company
in the district court for eastern Pennsylvania. At this
time negotiations, conducted by the Commissioner with
the stockholders of the company, for its rehabilitation
were pending.
The complaint alleged that the stockholder was a resident of West Virginia; that the requisite
jurisdictional amount was involved; that officers of the
rompany had misappropriated and wasted its assets; that

192

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court. -

294 U. S.

the company was insolvent and in a financially unsafe and
unsound condition. The bill prayed the appointment of
receivers, the liquidation of its property and business, and
the usual injunction. Upon the filing of the bill, subpoena was issued and was served on the corporation on
November 22, 1933.
On December 8, 1933, while the suit in the district
court was pending, the Attorney General of the state,
acting pursuant to § 502 of the Insurance Department Act
of May 17, 1921, P. L. 789, filed a suggestion with the
Court of Common Pleas of Dauphin County, alleging that
the company was in a financially unsound condition; that
the conduct of its business would be detrimental and
hazardous to its policyholders, creditors and the public;
that certain officers of the company had made illegal investments of the funds of the company and had appropriated to their own use other assets of the company.
He prayed for an order, that the defendant show cause
why the business of the company should not be closed,
its charter vacated, and its assets taken into possession
of the Insurance Commissioner for liquidation under his
direction, and for an injunction. On the same day the
Court of Common Pleas granted the order to show cause
and enjoined the company from transacting any business
and from disposing of its property until further order of
the court. The order to show cause was served upon
the company on December 11, 1933.
On December 14, 1933, the company filed an answer
in the suit pending before the federal district court,
substantially admitting the alleged withdrawal of assets
and illegal investment, and denying the other allegations
of the complaint, and alleging the pendency of the proceedings in the Court of Common Pleas.
On the same day the Court of Common Pleas entered
a further order restraining the company and its officers
or agents from transacting any business and from dis-

PENN CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
189

Opinion of the Court.

posing of its property and restraining all persons other
than the Insurance Commissioner and his agents from
taking possession of it. On the following day the federal
district court entered an order which recited the pendency
of the proceedings in the Court of Common Pleas and
restrained the company and its officers or agents from permitting anyone to receive or take possession of its property and enjoining all persons from interfering with it
in any way. On that day both the last mentioned restraining order of the Court of Common Pleas and
that of the federal district court were served on the
company.
After further proceedings the Court of Common Pleas
entered its final decree, March 14, 1934, that the company be dissolved and directing the acting Insurance
Commissioner to take possession of and to liquidate the
business and property of the casualty company in accordance with the provisions of the state Insurance Department Act. No final hearing has been held and no receiver
has been appointed in the suit pending in the district
court, but because of the restraining order of that court
the company has refused to comply with the demand of
the Commissioner for the surrender of its property in
conformity with the decree of the state court.
On appeal from the Court of Common Pleas, the state
supreme court treated the case as one involving only a
conflict of jurisdiction between the state court and the
federal court. It viewed the comprehensive statutory
scheme of the Commonwealth for liquidating insurance
companies by the Insurance Commission as binding on
the company and its shareholder. It therefore thought
that there could be no controversy between them which
would be a proper subject of suit in the federal courts
and that this was sufficient to preclude the exercise of
jurisdiction of the federal court. It accordingly affirmed
the decree. 316 Pa. 1;: 173 AtL 637.

194

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

The state court and the federal court have thus reached
an impasse: each asserts the right to exercise its jurisdiction with respect to substantially the same subject
matter, the liquidation of the business and assets of the
insolvent corporation; each asserts its authority to enjoin interference, by the state officer on the one hand,
and by any person except the state officer on the other;
and each is unable to perform its function without acquiring possession and control of the property. In the state
of the record before us, we confine our review to the single
question of this conflict of jurisdiction considered and
decided by the state court.
Section 502 of the Insurance Department Act authorizes the Commissioner to liquidate an insurance company
when its condition is such that further transaction of its
business will be hazardous; such liquidation is permitted
only on an order or decree of the Court of Common Pleas,
granted on application of the Attorney General of the
state. Upon such application the court is authorized by
§ 505 to enjoin the company from transacting any business
and from disposing of its property, and after a hearing to
direct the Insurance Commissioner to take possession of
the property and to liquidate it pursuant to the statute.
By §§ 506, 507, the order of the court vests the Commissioner with the title to the property and supersedes the
authority of any receiver appointed by any other state
court.
It is plain that the state court, in the absence of the
suit pending in the district court, would have acquired
jurisdiction to proceed with the cause and to grant the
relief sought. But the question now presented is whether
its authority to proceed is affected by the pendency of the
suit in the district court, which the state supreme court,
on the record before it, treated as exercising a conflicting
jurisdiction. The federal question, reviewable on appeal,
is whether the state court has given proper effect to the

PENN CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
189

Opinion of the Court.

proceedings and the order of the federal court. Buck v.
Colbath, 3 Wall. 334, 340; Crescent City Live Stock Co.
v. Butchers' Union Slaughter-House Co., 120 U. S. 141,
142; Moran v. Sturges, 154 U. S. 256, 267; Central National Bank v. Stevens, 169 U. S. 432, 456; Farmers' Loan
& Trust Co. v. Lake Street Elevated R. Co., 177 U. S.
51; Wabash R. Co. v. Adelbert College, 208 U. S. 38, 44,
54.
Where the judgment sought is strictly in personam, for
the recovery of money or for an injunction compelling or
restraining, action by the defendant, both a state court
and a federal court having concurrent jurisdiction may
proceed with the litigation, at least until judgment is obtained in one court which may be set up as res adjudicata
in the other. See Buck v. Colbath, supra, 342; .Kline v.
Burke Construction Co., 260 U. S. 226, and cases cited at
pages 230-231. But if the two suits are in rem or quasi
in rem, requiring that the court or its officer have possession or control of the property which is the subject of
the suit in order to proceed with the cause and to grant
the relief sought, the jurisdiction of one court must of
necessity yield to that of the other. To avoid unseemly
and disastrous conflicts in the administration of our dual
judicial system, see Peck v. Jenness, 7 How. 612, 625;
Taylor v. Carryl, 20 How. 583, 595; Freeman v. Howe, 24
How. 450, 459; Buck v. Colbath, supra, 341; Farmers'
Loan & Trust Co. v. Lake Street Elevated R. Co., supra,
61, and to protect the judicial processes of the court first
assuming jurisdiction, Wabash R. Co. v. Adelbert College,
supra, 54; Palmer v. Texas, 212- U. S. 118, 129, 130, the
principle, applicable to both federal and state courts, is
established that the court first assuming jurisdiction over
the property may maintain and exercise that jurisdiction
to the exclusion of the other. This is the settled rule with
respect to suits in equity for the control by receivership
of the assets of an insolvent corporation. Leadville Coal

196

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

Co. v. McCreery, 141 U. S. 475, 477; Porterv. Sabin, 149
U. S. 473, 480; Farmers' Loan & Trust Co. v. Lake Street
Elevated R. Co., supra; Vabash R. Co. v. Adelbert College, supra; Palmer v. Texas, supra; Lion Bonding &
Surety Co. v. Karatz, 262 U. S. 77, 88, 89; Harkin v.
Brundage, 276 U. S. 36.
Where the assertion of jurisdiction by the two courts
is nearly simultaneous, it becomes important, as in the
present case, to determine the precise time when the jurisdiction attaches. If the two suits do not have substantially the same purpose, and thus the jurisdiction of the
two courts may not be said to be strictly concurrent, and
if neither court can act effectively without acquiring possession and control of the property pendente lite, the time
of acquiring actual possession may perhaps be the decisive
factor. Compare Moran v. Sturges, supra, 284; Harkin v.
Brundage, supra, 43. But when the two suits have substantially the same purpose and the jurisdiction of the
courts is concurrent, that one whose jurisdiction and
process are first invoked by the filing of the bill is treated
as in constructive possession of the property, and as authorized to proceed with the cause. Harkin v. Brundage,
supra, 43-45. Jurisdiction thus attaches upon the filing
of the bill of complaint in court, at least where process
subsequently issues in due course. Palmer v. Texas,
supra, 129; Farmers' Loan & Trust Co. v. Lake Street
Elevated R. Co., supra, 60; compare Smith PurifierCo. v.
McGroarty, 136 U. S. 237, 240. The confusion and uncertainty are thus avoided which might otherwise result
from the attempt to resolve the troublesome question of
what constitutes actual possession and to determine
priority of service of process in the two suits.
In the present case there are outstanding injunctions
by both courts restraining any interference with the property in the hands of the insolvent corporation, and neither
the Insurance Commissioner nor the district court has

PENN CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
189

Opinion of the Court.

taken possession. The suits relate to substantially the
same subject matter. Each sought relief by injunction
against creditors, marshalling and conservation of the corporate assets and their liquidation and distribution among
the creditors and shareholders. The jurisdiction invoked
by the two suits was concurrent, see Harkin v. Brundage,
supra,45, and since the bill was filed in the district court
before the application of the Attorney General to the state
court, the jurisdiction of the district court first attached;
it has asserted this jurisdiction by its injunction order.
Hence, it alone can rightfully assert control over the property and proceed with litigation which affects that control,
Palmer v. Texas, supra, 129, 130; Wabash R. Co. v. Adelbert College, supra, 54, and it alone can determine how
far it will permit any other court to interfere. People's
Bank v. Calhoun, 102 U. S.256, 262; see Riggs v. Johnson
County, 6 Wall. 166. Its authority as a federal court to
entertain the suit is not restricted by the procedure established by local statutes for the liquidation of insurance
companies. The jurisdiction conferred on the district
courts by the Constitution and laws of the United States
cannot be affected by state legislation. See No. 394,
Pennsylvania v. Williams, decided this day, ante, p. 176.
Although the district court has thus acquired jurisdiction, the end sought by the litigation in the state court
is the liquidation of a domestic insurance company by a
state officer. In the absence of a showing that the interests of creditors and shareholders would not be adequately protected by this procedure, the case was a proper
one for the district court, in the exercise of judicial discretion, to relinquish the jurisdiction in favor of the administration by the state officer. See No. 394, Pennsylvania v. Williams, supra.
The authority of the Insurance Commissioner to proceed with the liquidation under state law, it is true, rests
on the decree of the state court entered after the district

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

court had acquired jurisdiction. But even though the
jurisdiction of the district court had attached, the state
court was not without power to designate the Insurance
Commissioner as the vehicle of the state authority to control the property whenever that could lawfully be done.
While it is often said that of two courts having concurrent jurisdiction in rem, that one first taking possession
acquires exclusive jurisdiction, see Peck v. Jenness, supra,
624, 625; Wabash R. Co. v. Adelbert College, supra, 54;
Harkin v. Brundage, supra, 43, it is exclusive only so far
as its exercise is necessary for the appropriate control and
disposition of the property. The jurisdiction does not
extend beyond the purpose for which it is allowed, to enable the court to exercise it appropriately and to avoid
unseemly conflicts. See Leadville Coal Co. v. McCreery,
supra, 477. The other court does not thereby lose its
power to make orders which do not conflict with the authority of the court having jurisdiction over the control
and disposition of the property. Yonley v. Lavender, 21
Wall. 276; Heidritter v. Elizabeth Oil-Cloth Co., 112
U. S. 294, 304; Byers v. McAuley, 149 U. S. 608. If it has
appointed a receiver, it may and should give him directions for the surrender of the property to the court having
prior jurisdiction, or it may make suitable orders permitting him to take possession and proceed with the liquidation when the court having jurisdiction over the property
relinquishes it. See Harkin v. Brundage, supra, 57. The
confirmation by the Court of Common Pleas of the right
of the Insurance Commissioner to liquidate the company
did not infringe the authority of the district court to make
appropriate disposition of the property. But it did confer on the Commissioner the requisite authority to ask
the district court to relinquish its jurisdiction in favor
of the state administration.
Since the district court had first acquired jurisdiction
to' liquidate the property of the insurance company, and

DOMENECH v. NATIONAL CITY BANK. 199
189

Syllabus.

had authority to proceed with the cause for that purpose,
the supreme court of the commonwealth erred in affirming so much of the decree of the Court of Common Pleas
as directed the Insurance Commissioner to take possession of the business and property of the company, and so
far as it affirmed the order of that court which enjoined
the company from surrendering its books, records and assets to any person other than the Commissioner, and enjoined others from taking possession of them. The decree must accordingly be reversed and the cause remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion, but without prejudice to an application by the Commissioner to the district court for an order relinquishing
its jurisdiction over the property of the company and vacating its injunction against surrender of it to the Commissioner for liquidation under the Insurance Department
Law of the state. See No. 394, Pennsylvaniav." Williams,
supra.
Reversed.
DOMENECH, TREASURER OF PUERTO RICO, v.
NATIONAL CITY BANK OF NEW YORK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 386. Argued January 15, 16, 1935.-Decided February 4, 1935.
1. The system of national bank laws extends to Puerto Rico,. ex
proprio vigore and by force of the congressional declaration
(U. S. C.,)Title 48, § 734) that the federal laws which are "not
locally inapplicable," except the internal revenue laws, shall have
the same force and effect there as in the United States. P. 205.
2. A tax on a branch of a national bank is a tax on the bank. P. 204.
3. Puerto Rico, being a dependency of the United States, may not
tax an agency of the United States, such as a national bank, except by the clear and explicit consent of Congress; and the general
power of taxation conferred on the insular government canrot be
construed as a consent. Pp. 204-205.

