686

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Counsel for Parties.

294 U. S.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. INTER-MOUNTAIN LIFE INSURANCE CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 537.

Argued March 5, 7, 1935.-Decided April' 1, 1935.

1. Assets reserved by an insurance company against matured unsurrendered and unpaid coupons attached to its twenty-payment
life coupon nonparticipating policies held not "reserve funds
required by law" within the meaning of § 245 (a) (2) of the
Revenue Act of 1921, allowing deduction of a percentage of the
mean of such reserve funds in computing the net income of life
insurance companies. P.'690.
2. Reserves against such matured and unsurrendered coupons are
not essentially insurance reserves, and the latter alone constitute
the base on which the deduction allowed by § 245 (a) (2) is to
be computed. P. 690.
3. The rule that ambiguities in tax statutes are to be resolved in
favor of the taxpayer has no application to provisions for deductions; they are allowable only when plainly authorized. P. 689.
71 F. (2d) 962, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 293 U. S. 553, to review a judgment affirming a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals redetermining

a deficiency in the income tax of the insurance company.
Assistant Attorney General Wideman, with whom Solicitor General Biggs and Messrs. James W. Morris, Norman D. Keller, and Edward H. Horton were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Mr. A. R. Serven, with whom Mr. Stephen W. Downey
was on the brief, for respondent.
By leave of Court, Messrs. Homer Hendricks, George M.
Wolcott, and 0. H. Chmillon, and Messrs. Thomas Watters, Jr., and Edwin R. Morrison filed briefs as amici
curiae, in support of the contentions of respondent.

HELVERING v. INSURANCE CO.
686

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
The question for decision is whether assets held by the
company in 1922 against matured and unpaid coupons
attached to 20-payment life coupon nonparticipating policies, constituted a reserve fund required by law within the
meaning of § 245 (a) (2) of the Revenue Act of 1921.'
That section declares that net income means gross income less, among other permissible deductions, an amount
equal to four per cent. of the mean of the "reserve funds
required by law" held at the beginning and end of the
taxable year. Respondent, a stock company, incorporated
under Utah law and commenced business in 1911. The
laws of that State require, as a condition of doing life insurance business, that the assets of the company shall
equal or exceed all liabilities for losses reported, expenses,
taxes and other outstanding liabilities, including the legal
reserves. And they prescribe the rate of interest to be assumed, and the mortality table to be used, for the purpose of making valuations of life insurance policies and
determining the reserves required to be maintained.2
' See. 245. (a) That in the case of a life insurance company the
term 'net income' means the gross income less-- . . . (2) An
amount equal to the excess, if any, over the deduction specified in
paragraph (1) of this subdivision, of 4 per centum of the mean of
the reserve funds required by law and held at the beginning and end
of the taxable year . . ." 42 Stat. 261.
'Revised Statutes of Utah, 1933, Title 43, c. 3, § 4. "No stock
company shall do any insurance business in this state before its capital
is fully paid up. Said capital must be unimpaired, that is, the assets
of such company must equal or exceed all liabilities for losses reported, expenses, taxes and other outstanding liabilities, including the
legal reserves as provided in sections 43-3-12 . . ." § 12. "For the
purpose of making valuations of life insurance policies and of determining the reserves required to be maintained therefor under the provisions of this title the rate of interest assumed shall be 31/2 percent
per annum, and the rate of mortality shall be established by the
table known as the 'American Experience Table of Mortality' for
policies issued after January 1, 1910 . .."

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

The record contains aspecimen policy for $10,000, applicable to age 35, issued in consideration of 20 annual
premiums of $420.90. Attached are 19 coupons maturing
serially on anniversary dates of the policy, beginning with
the first and ending with the nineteenth. Each coupon is
a promise that at its maturity the company will pay the
amount specified to the owner of the policy.
The policy states: The company will credit insured the
face amount of any matured coupon as it becomes due
and pay compound interest thereon, thereby creating a
fund to the credit of the insured which may be applied to
the payment of premiums or at any time withdrawn in
cash; and, if not so applied or withdrawn prior to his
death, it will pay the coupon values with interest to date
of death to the beneficiary in addition to the face amount
of the policy. The insured during the first year or within
a month after the due date of the second annual premium
may elect to convert the coupons as they mature into
paid-up life additions to the policy which are only reconvertible into cash surrender value.
At the end of 20 years, if all premiums have been paid
in cash and if the amount of each matured coupon has
been left with the company to accumulate at interest, then
upon surrender of the policy and all coupons the insured
shall select one of the following options: A guaranteed
cash payment of $8,000; a paid-up policy for $14,130,
subject to insurability; a guaranteed annual income of
$490 for at least 20 years and as many more as the insured
shall survive; a paid-up policy for $10,000 and an annual
income of $174.40 during life. At the end of 15 years the
company will issue a fully paid-up policy of $10,000 upon
surrender of the original policy and the first 14 coupons
representing values left on deposit at compound interest.
The mean of the company's reserve funds in 1922 set up
against liabilities other than matured coupons was $942,751.40. Later herein these are referred to collectively
as "insurance reserves." The company claimed and the

HELVERING v. INSURANCE CO.
686

689

Opinion of the Court.

Commissioner allowed as a deduction four per cent. of
that amount. It carried a separate reserve against matured, unsurrendered and unpaid coupons, the mean. of
which in that year was $136,523.39. In its return the company deducted four per cent. of that amount, but the
Commissioner disallowed the item. The Board of
Tax Appeals, in harmony with its prior constructions of
the clause in question,3 held the coupon reserve deductible. It was sustained by the court, following cases in that
71 F. (2d) 962.
and other Circuit Courts of Appeals.4
That being in conflict with a recent decision of the Court
of Claims,' this court granted a writ of certiorari.
In the reserves required by the laws of Utah and of the
other States in which the company issues policies of the
described class, there is included an amount sufficient to
cover not only all elements of insurance but also the coupon liability. We are not here dealing with reserves in
relation to solvency of the company. The thing to be
ascertained is the meaning that Congress intended by
the lnguage "4 per centum of the mean of the reserve
funds required by law." The clause to be construed relates exclusively to life insurance companies. It is
intended to define a deduction which they are permitted
to make in the calculation of the net amount to be taxed.
The rule that ambiguities in statutes imposing taxes are
to be resolved in favor of taxpayers does not apply. Deductions are allowed only whe., plainly authorized.
'Standard Life Insurance Co. of America, 13 B. T. A. 13. Reserve
Loan Life Insurance Co., 18 B. T. A. 359. Farmers Life Insurance
Co., 27 B. T. A. 423. Missouri State Life Insurance Co., 29 B. T. A.
401. Atlas Life Insurance Co., 29 B. T. A. 750.
'Commissioner v. Standard Life Ins. Co. (C. C. A.-3), 47 F. (2d)
218. Commissioner v. Western Union Life Ins. Co. (C. C. A.-9), 61
F. (2d) 207. Commissioner v. Great American Life Ins. Co. (C. C.
A.-10), 70 F. (2d) 133.
S'Continental Assur. Co. v. United States, 8 F. Supp. 474. Cf.
Minnesota Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. United States, 66 Ct. Cls. 481.
Massachusetts Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. United States, 56 F. (2d) 897.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

Ilfeld Co. v. Hernandez, 292 U. S. 62, 66. New Colonial
Ice Co. v. Helvering, 292 U. S. 435, 440.
The word "reserve" has many meanings. Accounts
creating reserves are set up in almost every line of business, and funds evidenced by the book entries are held
for many and widely different purposes. As the Act does
not permit corporations other than insurance companies to
make deductions of the kind here under consideration,
"reserve funds" may not reasonably be deemed to include
values that do not directly pertain to insurance. In life
insurance the reserve means the amount, accumulated by
the company out of premium payments, which is attributable to and represents the value of the life insurance
elements of the policy contracts. The premiums include
enough, over and above what is needed to maintain proper
insurance reserves, to provide for the discharge of coupon
liability according to the terms of the policy. The cou-'
pon values are the equivalent of cash and may be used
to pay premiums on the face amount of the policy, to
procure additional insurance, to lessen the number of
annual premiumas, or otherwise to obtain insurance protection. The amounts so applied cease to exist as coupon
liabilities, and automatically become a part of the life
insurance reserves. These differ essentially from coupon
liability. Like insurance matures only upon the death
of the insured and the life reserve is based upon that contingency, whereas liability on the matured coupons depends upon no contingency. It follows that the insurance
reserves alone constitute the base on which the deduction is to be computed. Reserves against matured coupons are excluded. McCoach v. Insurance Co. of N. A.,
244 U. S. 585, 589. United States v. Boston Insurance
Co., 269 U. S. 197, 202. New York Life Ins. Co. v. Edwards, 271 U. S. 109, 119. Duffy v. Mutual Benefit Ins.
Co., 272 U. S. 613, 618-619. Continental Assurance Co. v.
United States, 8 F. Supp. 474.
Reversed.

