McCREA v. UNITED STATES.
20

Syllabus.

they are deflected in the direction of the fans and there
"drawn " toward them through the central part of the
chamber. Less than 1% of the air passes out through
the foul air exits in the course of making the described
circuits, so that there is circulation and re-circulation of
the air within the chamber. The evidence supports the
finding of the special master and of the two courts below
that the currents of air set in motion by the fans flow
continuously along defined paths.
The petitioner's machine thus employs every essential
of the patented method as it is defined by Claim 1. Petitioner does not avoid infringement of respondent's
method patent merely by employing it in a machine of
different structure than respondent's, whether more or
less efficiently. Winans v. Denmead, 15 How. 330, 344;
Sewall v. Jones, 91 U. S. 171, 184; Cochrane v. Deener,
supra, 789; Carnegie Steel Co. v. CambriaIron Co., 185
U. S. 403, 441.
Affirmed.

McCREA v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 249. Argued December 14, 1934.-Decided January '', 1935.
1. A seaman is not entitled to the extra wages and other relief afforded by R. S., § 4583, unless his claim was upheld, and his discharge granted, by a consul or consular agent. P. 27.
2. To entitle a seaman to double wages under R. S., § 4529, upon the
ground that payment of wages due, as therein provided, was refused or neglected "without sufficient cause," the delay of paymeut
must have been in some sense arbitrary, wilful, or unreasonable
P. 30.
3. Upon the demand of a seaman for his discharge, payment of wages
due, a month's additional pay, and employment on another vessel
homeward bound, the master of a vessel, busily engaged about his
duties on arrival in a foreign port and ignorant of the legal- basis

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

for the demand, requested the seaman to meet him at the consular
office shortly after noon of the following day; the seaman called
early, was advised by the consul that he was not entitled to his disbharge, and failed to keep the appointment 'with the master; he left
the vessel later without having communicated with the master, and
gave no forwarding address. Held, the failure of the master to
make payment of wages as provided by R. S., § 4529 was not
"without sufficient cause." P. 28.
4. The double liability under § 4529 arises from failure, without sufficient cause, to make payment of what was due, during the period
prescribed by the statute. If the failure was justifiable then (in
this case because of the seaman's own conduct), the double liability
does not arise afterwards because of a subsequent refusal to pay the
wages due. P. 31.
5. A decree entered by the District Court on rehearing, becomes the
final decree in the cause and supersedes the earlier one. P. 32.
70 F. (2d) 632, affirmed.

CERTIORARI * to review a judgment affirming a judgment of the District Court entered on rehearing in a
suit, against the United States under the Suits in Admiralty Act. See 3 F. Supp. 184, 187:
Mr. John M.

Scoble, with whom Mr. K.

Courtenay

Johnston was on the brief, for petitioner.

Assistant Attorney General Blair, with whom Solicitor
General Biqs, Assistant Attorney General Sweeney , and
Mr. Aubrey Lawrence were on the brief, for the United

States.
M.

JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of. the Court.

This is a suit under the Suits in Admiralty Act of March

9, 1920, c. 95, 41 Stat. 525, §§ 1, 2 and 6, 46 U. S. C.,
§§ 741, 742, 746, against the United States as owner and
operator of the S. S. American Shipper, brought in the
district court for southern New York by petitioner, a seaman, to recover for loss of his clothing, for wages, and for
See Table of Cases Reported in this Volume.

McCREA v. UNITED STATES.
23

Opinion of the Court.

one month's additional wages and other relief provided by
R. S. § 4583, because of the failure of respondent to divide
the firemen and other employees of the vessel into three
equal watches, as required by § 2 of the Seamen's Act of
March 4, 1915, c. 153, 38 Stat. 1164, 46 U. S. C., § 673.
He also demanded, under R. S. § 4529, as amended by § 3
of the Seamen's Act, double wages, aggregating about
$7,000, for failure to pay wages earned in 1928.
The district court at first gave a decree for the value of
the clothing, $28.95 for the wages due, and a part of the
double wages demanded. 3 F. Supp. 184. On reargument
it reduced the amount of the recovery to the value of the
clothing and the amount of wages due, on the ground that
the demand for double wages was for a penalty for which
the United States, as sovereign, is not liable. 3 F. Supp.
187. The Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit took
the same view and affirmed the decree. 70 F. (2d) 632.
Certiorari was granted upon a petition which urged
that the decision below was erroneous because: (a) the
provision for the recovery of double wages is compensatory and not for the imposition of a penalty; and (b),
even though a penalty, it is one for which the government
is liable by virtue of the provisions of the Suits in Admiralty Act and of the government's waiver of sovereign immunity by engaging in the business of operating vessels
in competition with private owners. It is also insisted
that the Court of Appeals erred in holding that the decree
first entered by the district court, allowing recovery of
double wages, was set aside and superseded by its later
decree, which allowed recovery only for the amount
claimed for loss of petitioner's clothing and for earned
wages.
We find it unnecessary to decide the questions raised
with respect to the liability of the government for double
wages. For upon examination of the record it is apparent that petitioner has failed to establish his right to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

double wages demanded, regardless of the asserted immunity of the government.
Both courts below are in substantial agreement as to
the facts, which, so far as now material, may be detailed
as follows: Petitioner shipped as a fireman on the S. S.
American Shipper on a voyage from New York to London
and return; on arrival at London, he demanded of the
master his discharge, payment of the balance of wages
due, one month's additional pay, and that he be provided
-with adequate employment on some other vessel bound
for New York. As reason for his demand he quoted the
titles of § 2 of the Seamen's Act and R. S. § 4583. The
master, who was then occupied with his duties in advancing money to members of the crew who were about to take
shore leave, offered to pay one-half the wages due, which
petitioner refused. The master then told him that he did
not know what the cited sections of the statute were about
and that he would have to look them up. He asked petitioner to meet him in the office of the American Consul
in London, whose address he gave, shortly after noon of
the following day, when he would discuss with petitioner
the matter of his demand.
Petitioner went to the Consulate the next forenoon and
left about half-past eleven, after stating his complaint and
being informed by the Consul that he was not entitled to
his discharge. He requested that the decision be placed
in writing; this was done and sent to him in care of the
vessel. The master, who had been busy preparing his
papers for entry at the customs house, arrived at the Consulate about two o'clock of the same day and was told
that the petitioner had been there and had gone. He then
returned to the vessel, where he remained most of the
time it was in port, but did not see petitioner again. Petitioner testified that he returned to the vessel, knocked
at the master's door that night and again the next morning, but received no answer at either time. He then asked

McCREA v. UNITED STATES.
23

Opinion of the Court.

the chief mate if the master was aboard and the mate
said that he didn't know. On that day he left the vessel,
without making any further attempt to see the master, or
leaving any information which would enable the officers
to communicate with him. When he asked the mate for
a pass for his clothes he was told that the mate could not
give him one and he was not allowed to take his clothes
with him. He did not intend to return to the vessel when
he left, and never did return. After some weeks in England he purchased passage on another vessel and returned
to the United States.
1. The petitioner rests his claim for a month's extra
pay and for the cost of his return passage on § 2 of the
Seamen's Act and R. S. § 4583. By § 2 a seaman is given
the right to demand his discharge and payment of the
wages due whenever the master of the vessel fails while
at sea to divide the sailors into at least two, and firemen,
oilers and water-tenders into at least three, watches. Ini

O'Harav. Luckenbach Steamship Co., 269 U. S. 364, 367,
we held that the purpose of this provision was to provide for the safety of vessels at sea rather than to regulate
working conditions of the crew, and that it commands
division of the specified classes of the crew into watches
as nearly equal as the number in each class will permit.
Section 4583 provides that:
"Whenever on the discharge of a seaman in a foreign
country by a consular officer on his complaint that the
voyage is continued contrary to agreement, or that the
vessel is . . . unseaworthy, . . . it shall be the duty of
the consul or consular agent to institute a proper inquiry
into the matter, and, upon his being satisfied of the
truth and justice of such complaint, he shall require the
master to pay to such seaman one month's wages over
and above the wages due at the time of discharge, and to
provide him with adequate employment on board some
other vessel, or provide him with a passage on board

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

some other vessel bound to the port from which he was
originally shipped, . . ."
As the government sought no review, either in the Court
of Appeals or in this Court, of the determination of the
district court that petitioner was entitled to demand his
discharge and payment of his earned wages because of
the failure to make proper division of the crew into
watches, there is no occasion for us to pass on that question. Nor do we decide the further one, which the petitioner raises, whether a seaman is entitled to claim the
benefits of § 4583 by reason of a failure to provide equal
watches as directed by § 2 of the Seamen's Act. Laying
aside that question and possible doubts as to the correct
construction of other parts of § 4583, it is plain that by
its provisions the Consul or Consular Agent is made the
arbiter of the seaman's demand for the month's extra
wages and for other relief which it affords, and that his
favorable action upon the demand and his discharge of
the seaman are prerequisite to any recovery under it.
As in the present case the Consul refused to give petitioner his discharge and to certify that he was entitled to
the relief demanded, his recovery under that section was
rightly denied by the courts below.
2. The seaman's right to double wages for failure of
the master to pay wages due is conferred by R. S. §4529.'
'Sec. 4529. The master or owner of any vessel making coasting
voyages shall pay to every seaman his wages within two days after
the termination of the' agreement under which he was shipped, or
at the time such seaman is discharged, whichever first happens; and
in case of vessels making foreign voyages, or from a port on the
Atlantic to a port on the Pacific, or vice versa, within twenty-four
hours after the cargo has been discharged, or within four days after
the seaman has been discharged, whichever first happens; and in all
cases the seaman shall be -entitled to be paid at the time of his discharge on account of wages a sum equal to one-third part of the
balance due him. Every master or owner who refuses or neglects
to make payment in the manner hereinbefore mentioned without suf-

McCREA v. UNITED STATES.
23

Opinion of the Court.

By this section the master or owner of a vessel is required
to pay a seaman his wages within a specified time after
the termination of the agreement under which he was
shipped or after the time of hisdischarge, whichever first
happens. In the case of vessels making foreign voyagespayment is required within twenty-four hours after the
cargo has been discharged or within four days after the
seaman has been discharged, whichever first happens.
In all cases the seaman is entitled at the time of his discharge to one-third of the balance of wages due him. It
directs that "every master or owner who refuses or neglects to make payment in the manner" specified "without sufficient cause shall pay to the seaman a sum equal
to two days' pay for each and every day during which
payment is delayed beyond the respective periods, which
sum shall be recoverable as wages ... "
Since it does not appear in the present case when the
cargo was discharged, the time within which the master
could pay the wages due and thus avoid liability for
double wages cannot be taken to be less than four days
from the time of arrival. There is no question of failure
to pay one-third of the wages due since petitioner did not
avail himself of the master's offer to pay him one-half
of his wages. As it has been determined that the petitioner was entitled to his discharge and to payment of
the wages due, and as payment was not made within the
time specified by the statute, we may assume, for present
purposes, that he was entitled to the double pay deinanded if the master's failure to pay the wages due was.
without sufficient cause."
ficient cause shall pay to the seaman a sum equal to two days' pay
for each and every day during which payment is delayed beyond the
respective periods, which sum shall be recoverable as wages in any
claim made before the court; but this section shall not apply to
masters or owners of any vessel the seamen of which are entitled to
share in the profits of the cruise or voyage. (46 U. S. C. 596.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

We had occasion to pass upon the meaning of this
phrase, as used in § 4529, in Collie v. Fergusson, 281 U. S.
52, where it was held that there was no right to double
wages where the failure to pay earned wages was occasioned by the insolvency of the owner and the arrest
of the vessel subject to accrued claims beyond her value.
After pointing out that the words "without sufficient
cause" must be taken to mean something more than the
absence of valid defenses to the claim for wages, we said,
page 55:
"the phrase is to be interpreted in the light of the evident
purpose of the section to secure prompt payment of seamen's wages (H. R. Rep. 1657, Committee on the Merchant Marine and Fisheries, 55th Cong., 2d Sess.) and
thus to protect them from the harsh consequences of arbitrary and unscrupulous action of their employers, to
which, as a class, they are peculiarly exposed.
"The words' refuses or neglects to make payment . . .
without sufficient cause' connote, either conduct which is
in some sense arbitrary or wilful, or at least a failure
not attributable to impossibility of payment. "We think
the use of this language indicates a purpose to protect
seamen from delayed payments of wages by the imposition of a liability which is not exclusively compensatory,
but designed to prevent, by its coercive effect, arbitrary
refusals to pay wages, ahid to induce prompt payment
when payment is possible."
The statute thus confers no right to recover double
wages where the delay in payment of wages due was not
in some sense arbitrary, wilful or unreasonable. In view
of the many duties imposed, some by law, on the master
of a vessel upon arrival in a foreign port, we cannot say.
that the statute compels him, on pain of subjecting himself or his owner to heavy loss, 'to make immediate decision of questions of law involved in a seaman's demands,.

McCREA v. UNITED STATES.
23

Opinion of the Court.

of whose nature he is left in ignorance. In. the circumstances, he did not unreasonably defer action by fixing
the following day and the Consul's office as the time and
place for his decision. The failure of petitioner to keep
the appointment and to communicate with the master
again, after rejection by the Consul of petitioner's demand, left the master uninformed whether or not petitioner still persisted in his demand. His departure from
the vessel on the following day, without leaving an address, precluded payment of the wages due within the
four days which the statute allowed. The case is not
one of neglect to pay wages without sufficient cause.
In its opinion before reargument the district court, notwithstanding its conclusion that the master had sufficient
cause for his failure to pay wages, ruled that the petitioner
was entitled to recover double pay for the number of days
which had intervened after the suit was brought. Petitioner argues here that, as there was no excuse for delay
in payment after the suit was brought, the duty to pay
double wages accrued from that date. But the liability
is conditioned by the statute upon the refusal or neglect
to pay wages "in the manner hereinbefore mentioned
without sufficient cause." The quoted phrase refers to the
specified periods within which the seaman's wages are directed to be paid, and the section thus imposes the liability
for neglect, without sufficient cause,- to pay the wages
within the prescribed period. Petitioner seeks, by a more
liberal interpretation of the words, to impose the liability
for such delay in payment, without sufficient cause, as
may occur at any time after an excusable failure to pay
within the prescribed period. This possibility is precluded by the further provision of the section that double
wages shall be paid for each day "during which payment
is delayed beyond the respective periods" within which
the payment is to be made. Thus, liability for double

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

wages accrues, if at all, from the end of the period within
which payment should have been made. It must be
determined by the happening of an event within the
period, failure to pay wages without sufficient cause. The
statute affords a definite and reasonable procedure by
which the seaman may establish his right to recover double
pay where his wages are unreasonably withheld. But it
affords no basis for recovery if, by his own conduct, he
precludes compliance with it by the master or owner. He
cannot afterward impose the liability by the mere expedient of bringing suit upon it.
3. Following the trial of the cause in the district court
a decree was entered allowing recovery for loss of petitioner's clothing, for wages and double wages. After
the reargument a second decree wis entered which did
not in terms vacate or modify the first one, but which
granted recovery as in its first decree, except for double
wages. After the appeal was taken to the Circuit Court
of Appeals the district court amended the second decree
by the addition of a direction that the first decree be
vacated.
The application for rehearing was seasonably made and
by granting it the district court retained jurisdiction of
the case. The decree entered on the rehearing thus became the final decree in the cause and superseded the
earlier one, as the court below held. Barrell v. Tilton,
119 U. S. 637, 643; see Wolff Packing Co. v. Industrial
Court, 267 U. S. 552.
It is unnecessary to inquire whether, after the appeal
was taken, the district court retained jurisdiction to correct its own records by vacating the first decree, which
had already become functus officio. See Hovey v. McDonald, 109 U. S. 150, 157, 158.
Affirmed.

