OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

JENKINS, Assignee, v. L(EWENTHAIL & Another.
IN

ERROR TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE STATE

OF ILLI-OIS.

Submitted January 7th, 1884.-Decided January 21st, 1834.

Error-Practice.
When the record discloses two defences to an action brought in a State court,
one presenting a federal question, and one presenting no federal question,
either of which if sustained was a complete defence to the suit, and that
the State court gave judgment in favor of the defendant on both, and the
cause is brought here by writ of error, this court will affirm the judgment
below without considering the federal question.

ifr. IV
-..

. Burgess for plaintiff in error.

A. -Of Pence for defendants in error.

MR. CHEF JUsTICE WATE delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought by Robert E. Jenkins, as assignee in
bankruptcy of Samuel J. Walker, a bankrupt, to recover certain
lands conveyed by the bankrupt to Eli Kinney, on the alleged
ground that the conveyances, though absolute on their face, were
intended as mortgages. Two defences were interposed among
others, one that the defendants, who are the present owners of
the property, are innocent purchasers for a valupble consideration, without notice of any outstanding equities in the assignee
or the bankrupt; and the other that the suit was not brought
within two years after the alleged cause of action accrued to
the assignee. Rev. Stat., ยง 5057. Either of these defences,
if sustained, bars the action. The second involves a federal
question, the other does not. The court in its decree sustained
them both, and, among other things, found as a fact that the
defendants were innocent purchasers for value. As this finding is broad enough to maintain the decree, even though the
federal question involved in the other defence was decided
wrong, we affirm the decree, without considering that question
or expressing any opinion upon it. Murdock-v. City of Ifeonyki, 20 Wall. 590, sustains this practice.

AjX~ned.

DOWS v. JOHNSON.
Opinion of the Court.

DOWS & Another v. JOHNSON.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF IOWA.
Submitted January 7th, 184.-Decided January 21Et, 1884.

urIdition.
When the value of the matter in dispute in this court is less than $5,000 the
court is without jurisdiction of the cause, although an amount more than
$5,000 may have been involved below. .THton v. Dickinson,108. S. 165,
approved and followed.

Motibn to dismiss.

Case also submitted on the briefs.

.Mr. Zenry S. .Monroe for plaintiffs in error and against the
motion.
.r. Samuel F. Chap2man and .'&. IF.F. S p for defendant in error and for the motion.
CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
We have no jurisdiction in this case. The suit was brought
by Dows & Co. to recover damages for the unlawful conversion of ten thousand bushels of corn, the value of which, accord-'
ing to the findings, did not exceed $6,000. With interest added
to this sum from the date of the alleged conversion until the
judgment, the most that could have been recovered, upon the
special finding, was $6,360. A judgment was in fact rendered
for $2,430. The matter in dispute in this court is the difference
between these two sums, or only $3,930. In Hiltonv. Dickinson,
108 U. S. 165, it was settled that our jurisdiction depends on
the value of the matter in dispute here, and as that in the present case is less than $5,000, it follows that the suit must be dismissed; and it is so ordered.
Dimissed.
AER.

