VOGEL -v. GRUAZ.
Opinion of the Court.

VOGEL, Executor, v. GRUAZ.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Argued January 17th, 18th, 1884.-Decided February4th, 1884.

.Ptvieged Communication-Slaner.
A communication made to a State's attorney, in Illinois, his duty being to
"commence and prosecute" all criminal prosecutions, by a person who inquires of the attorney whether the facts communicated make out a case of
larceny for a criminal prosecution, is an absolutely privileged communication, and cannot, in a suit against such person to recover damages for
speaking words charging larceny, be testified to by the State's attorney,
even though there be evidence of the speaking of the same words to other
persons than such attorney.

2r.

-Tarnm - Edsafl (Y. John B. Hawlky was with him)

for plaintiff in error.
Xr. H. S. Greene (r_ .
defendant in error.

TF. Barnzet was with him) for

Mm JUSTICE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action on the case, brought by Timothy Gruaz
against Rudolph Bircher, to recover damages for the speaking
and publishing of false, malicious, scandalous and defamatory
words, charging the plaintiff with being a thief, and with having stolen the money of the defendant, meaning the crime of
larceny. The suit was commenced in a State court of Illinois,
and was removed by the defendant into the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Southern District of Illinois. At the
trial before a jury a verdict was rendered for the plaintiff, June
6th, 1879, for $6,000 damages. On the next day the defendant filed a motion for a new trial On the 14th of June the
defendant died, on the 12th of July an order abating the case
was moved for, on behalf of the defendant, and on the 16th of
August the court overruled the motion for a new trial and the
motion for an order of abatement, and entered a judgment for
the plaintiff, against Bircher, for $6,000 and costs, as of June

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

7th, 1879. The order for judgment recited that the hearing
by the court of the motion for a new trial was, when it was
filed, postponed to a then future and convenient day of the
same term, and that the defendant died pending the hearing of
the motion. Leave was given to the executor of the defendant
to prepare a bill of exceptions and to take a writ of error. The
bill of exceptions being signed, it was filed by the executor,
and the writ of error was issued. Various errors are assigned,
and among them that the Circuit Court did not grant the
motion to abate the suit, and that it rendered, a judgment
against Bircher after his death. But it is unnecessary to pass
on those questions, because we are of opinion that the judgment
must be reversed for another error committed at the trial
Three witnesses for the plaintiff gave evidence tending to
prove the speaking to them by the defendant of more or less
of the words set forth in the declaration; and afterwards C. L.
Cook was sworn as a witness for the plaintiff, and testified that
he was State's attorney for Madison County, Illinois; that
he had a slight acquaintance with Bircher; and that he knew
Gruam The following proceedings then occurred:

"Q. I will ask you if you had any conversation with Doctor
Bircher with regard to Gruaz, and, if so, when was it? Counsel
for defence' asked witness if at that time he was occupying the
same position he now holds. A. Yes, sir. Q. It was communicated
to you while you held that position and were acting in that capacity, whatever was communicated to you by Bircher? A. Yes,
sir. (Defendant's counsel object to the witness testifying to
matters disclosed to him by the defendant under the circumstances stated, on the ground that such communications are to be
treated as privileged.) The Court. I will ask the witness if he
regarded it professionally as a privileged communication ? A.
I had never met defendant before, he was introduced to me by a
citizen of our place, and he informed me that he wanted to talk
with me with regard to a matter he wanted to bring before the
grand jury. (Objected to.) The Court. I will allow the witness to state what the doctor said on that occasion. Of course,
if he made the communication to the witness in good faith, there
would be no malice about it, and I shall instruct the jury to dis-

VOGEL v. GRUAZ.
Opinion of the Court.

regard it. The objection is overruled. To which ruling of the
court the defendant at the time excepted. A. As I stated, I had
at that time no acquaintance with defendant whatever. He inquired for the State's attorney, and was introduced to me, and he
spoke of his affairs. He said he wanted to bring a matter before
the grand jury in regard to Mr. Gruaz. I talked with him in regard to the nature of the matter, and he talked pretty freely in
regard to it, and I directed him to the grand jury room. He said
a good many things. He was evidently in earnest at the time,
expressed himself very freely in regard to him. I would not like
to swear to the exact words used, or that anybody used at the
time. I can give the substance of what he said, I suppose. He
wanted to prosecute Gruaz for stealing, was the amount of it. I
recollect this : he charged him with having stolen his money, and
I asked him how, and he told me how it had been done. Gruaz
was his agent and handled his funds, rented his farms, and had
failed to account for a large amount of money, he told me, and
he charged him in this conversation with having stolen his money,
and he said he wanted to know if there was any law in this State
to prosecute a man for that. I have no objection to state any
words. I remember his making the charge that he had stolen his
money, but I can't swear that the word ' thief' was used at that
time; that it was in substance, undoubtedly. My. impression is
that this was the March term, 1878, of the Circuit Court of Madison County, either that or October term, 1877 ; my recollection
and decided impression is that it was the spring term, 1878. Dr.
Bircher went into the grand jury room and gave his statement to
the grand jury. He was anxious, of course, to have the indictment found, and he evidently believed or so expressed himself.
Counsel for defendant objected to witness stating his opinion
about what defendant evidently believed. The Court. He said
he went before the grand jury, and said he seemed to be in earnest in his movements, but he didn't say what took place before
the grand jury. Don't know, I suppose. Witness. No., I don't
know. Cross-examination. Major Prickett introduced Bircher
to me ; never saw him before in my life. I was certain he came
to see me as prosecuting .attorney, in good faith. That was his
business, as he stated it to me. After he made his statement to
me I advised him to go before the grand jury; directed him to
their room. He went there by my advice. Hold on-I don't

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court

say that; I advised him that he had a good case. He came to
me and I showed him where the grand jury room was. He stated
his case to me as State's attorney. I then directed him where to
go, and said I should prosecute it as vigorously as possible, if the
indictment was found. In regard to the advice I gave him, I
rather encouraged him to drop the thing; I told him he better
sue Mr. Gruaz first, and see if he couldn't get judgment against
him, and so put it in a better shape to prosecute him. He stated
his case, and I thought from his statement that he would have
few, if any, witnesses besides himself, and that it would be doubtfuli however honestly he might believe that he had cause, it would
be doubtful whether the jury would bring a bill; so I advised
him to bring a civil suit; but, said I, you are here, and you
mustn't think hardly of me if the grand jury don't find a bill;
and I directed him to the grand jury room."
The bill of exceptions also contains the following:
"In reference to the testimony of State's attorney C. L Cook,
the court instructed the jury as follows : 'I admitted that evidence with an explanation, and with the explanation made in the
admission of it I think I am content, and I think the jury may
take it into oonsideration ; but, if they think the defendant was
actuated by honest motives, in making the declaration he did, they
will disregard it.' To the giving of which last instruction the defendant excepted, for the reason that the instruction ignores the
element of want of probable cause, and for the reason, also, that
the jury should have been instructed to disregard Cook's testimony
entirely."
We are of opinion that what was said by Bircher to Mr. Cook,

was an absolutely privileged communication. It was said to
Mr. Cook while he was State's attorney, or prosecutor of crimes,
for the county, and while he was acting in that capacity.
Bircher inquired for the State's attorney, and was introduced

to him, and stated to him that he wanted to talk with him about
a matter he wanted to bring before the grand jury in regard to
Gruaz. He laid the matter before Mr. Cook, and charged Gruaz

with having stolen his money, and was asked how, and stated

VOGEL v. GRUAZ.
Opinion of the Court.

how, and inquired of Mr. Cook if there was any law in Illinois
by'which a man could be prosecuted for that. The grand jury
was then in session, and Mr. Cook advised Bircher that he had
a good case, and directed him to the grand jury room, and
Bircher went before the grand jury. If all this had taken place
between Bircher and an attorney consulted by him who did not
hold the public position which Mr. Cook did, clearly, the communication would have been privileged, and not to be disclosed
against the objection of Bircher. Under the circumstances
shown, Mr. Cook was the professional adviser of Bircher, consulted by him, on a statement of his case, to learn his opinion
as to whether there was ground in fact and in law for making
an attempt to procure an indictment against Gruaz. The fact
that Mr. Cook held the position of public prosecutor, and was
not to be paid by Bircher for information or advice, did not
destroy the relation which the law established between them.
It made that relation more sacred, on the ground of public policy. The avenue to the grand jury should always be free and
unobstructed. Bircher might have gone directly before it,
without consulting with Mr. Cook, but, if he chose to consult
him, instead of a private counsel, there was great propriety in
his doing so. Any person who desires to pursue the same course
should not be deterred by the fear of having what he may say
in the confidence of a consultation with a professional adviser,
supposed to be the be.t qualified for the purpose, disclosed afterwards in a civil suit, against his objection. Oliver v. Pate,43
Ind. 132. By the statute of Illinois in force at the time of this
occurrence, it was made the duty of each State's attorney to
"commence and prosecute" all criminal actions, suits, indictments, and prosecutions, in any court of record in his county,
in which the people of the State or county might be concerned.
Rev. Stat. of 1874, chap. 14, ยง 5, subd. 1. Under this provision
it was the province and the privilege of any person who knew
of facts tending to show the commission of a crime, to lay those
facts before the public offcer whose duty it was to commence
a prosecution for the crhnie Public policy will protect all such
communications, absolutely, and without reference to the motive
or intent of the informer or the question of probable cause; the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

ground being, that jgreater mischief will probably result from
requiring or permitling them to be disclosed than from wholly
rejecting them. M-. Cook learned from Bircher the things to
which he testified because he occupied the position of public
prosecuting officer, and because he was acting at the time as
the legal adviser of Bircher in respect to the matter in question
which Bircher was laying before him. The free and unembarrassed administration of justice in respect to the criminal law,
in which the public is concerned, is involved in a case like the
present, in addition to the considerations which ordinarily apply
in communications from client to counsel in matters of purely
private concern. Bircher made his communication to Mr. Cook
for the purpose of obtaining professional advice as to his righ
and that of the public through him, to have a criminal prosecution commenced by Mr. Cook, by the intervention of the grand
jury, against Gruaz.
But there is another view of the subject. The matter 6oncerned the administration of penal justice, and the principle of
public safety justifies and demands the rule of exclusion. In
Wortkington v. Scr7m6r, 109 Mass. 487, an action for maliciously and falsely representing to the Treasury Department of
the United States that the plaintiff was intending to defraud
the revenue, it was held that the defendant could not be compelled to answer whether he did not give to the department
information of supposed or alleged frauds on the revenue contemplated by the plaintiff. The principle laid down in that case
was, that it is the duty of every citizen to communicate to his
government any information which he has of the commission
of an offence against its laws; and that a court of justice will
not compel or allow such information to be disclosed, either by
the subordinate officer to whom it is given, by the informer
himself, or by any other person, without the permission of the
government, the evidence being excluded not for the protection
of the witness or of the party in the particular case, but upon
general grounds of public policy, because of the confidential
nature of such communications. The authorities are collected
and reviewed in that case. The case of .Dawkin v. Rokeby, L.
R. 8 Q. B. 255, there cited, was affirmed by the House of Lords,

CORKER v. JONES.
Syllabus.

L. R. 7 H. L. 744. See also, 1 Greenleaf on Evidence, ยง 250;
Black v. Holmes, 1 Fox & Smith, 28.
It makes no difference that there was evidence of the speaking of the same words to persons other than Mr. Cook, and that
the speaking of them to Mr. Cook was not the sole ground of
action or of recovery. The evidence was incompetent, and it
must be inferred that it affected the minds of the jury both on
the main issue and on the question of damages.
It results from these views that the judgment below cannot
be upheld, and that it must be reversed, and
The case be emanded to the Circuit Court, with direvtion to
set as&e the verdict and vacate the judgment and take u A
further proceedings as may be accordingto law and not inconitent witk thic opiniom

CORKER v. JONES, Executor, & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
Argued and Submitted January 18th, 21st, 1884.-Decided February 4th, 1884.

Georgia-Guardianand Ward.
A being executor of the estate of C and testamentar' guardian of D, minor
son of deceased, purchased on behalf of D, but with his own money, a parcel
of real estate of deceased which had been devised to another heir. While
D was still a minor a bill was filed in the State court of Georgia, where the
property was situated and the parties resided, in the name of D, suing by
his mother as next friend, praying to have the purchase set aside as to D,
and the estate decreed to be the individual property of A, anda final decree
to that effect was made and A went into possession. Subsequently D, by
his nextM
friend, filed a bill setting up title to the property, and praying to
have the cloud upon his title removed, and for an accounting: Held, That
the State court of Georgia bad jurisdiction to make the decree which it
made; that it was not voidable as to D; and that, notwithstanding the relations between the parties, th judgn'ent was conclusive in the absence of
an impeachment for unfairness and fraud.

r. Ienry B. Tompkins argued for appellants.

