UNITED STATES v. RYDER.
Syllabus.

ment, but not to an action brought to recover damages for
a search or seizure.
The general purpose of Congress in the passage of that act
appears plainly to have been to give a degree of protection to
all persons acting during the rebellion under authority of the
President or Congress of the United States. A construction
which gives the benefit of one of its provisions to parties
charged with offences against the person, and not to those
charged with wrongs and trespasses to the property of the
citizen, robs the act of a great part of its intended effect, and
is clearly unsound and untenable.
But it is unnecessary to discuss further this assignment of
error. The point has been expressly decided against the contention of the defendants in error by this court at the present
term in the case of Aitchel v. Clark, ante, 634, where it was
held that the limitation of the statute applied to wrongs to the
estate as well as to the arrest and imprisonment of the person
of the plaintiff.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the
ease remanded to that court, with direction to ordera new •
trial.
MR. Jusec

FRELD did not sit in this case or take any part

in its decision.

UNITED STATES v. RYDER & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF TE UNTED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
Argued December 12th, 188a.-Decided March 10thb, 1884.

Subrogation-Reognzanc.
Without an express contract of indemnity a surety on a recognizance for the
appearance of a person cbarged with committing a criminal offence against
the laws of the United States, cannot maintain an action against the principal to recover any sums he may have been obliged to pay by reason of
forfeiture of the principal, and he is not entitled to be subrogated to the

OCTOBER TERMA

1883.

Statement of Facts.
rights of the United States, and to enjoy the benefit of the government
priority.
Subrogating a surety on a recognizance in a criminal case to the peculiar
remedies which the government enjoys is against public policy, and tends
to subvert the object and purpose of the recognizance.
§ 3408 Rev. Stat. conferring on sureties on bonds to the United States who are
forced to pay the obligation the priority of recovery enjoyed by the United
States does not apply to recognizances in criminal proceedings, and does
not authorize an action in the name of the United States.

The bill in this case was filed at the suit of the United States
to obtain payment of a recognizance for $10,000 from the
property of one Edward P. Williams, or the proceeds thereof,
in the hands of Seth B. Ryder, one of the defendants. The
recognizance was entered into on the 8th day of November,
1876, by Williams and three other persons, conditioned that
Williams "should appear in person at Trenton, before the
United States District Court there, and submit to such sentence
as the said court should order and direct."
Williams did not. appear according to the condition of the
recognizance, but absconded, and, as the bill alleges, "became
a fraudulent, absconding, concealed and absent debtor, and at
the same time was a convicted criminal and a fugitive from
justice," and never has since appeared nor been found. The
bill further alleges that a scire facias was issued, and a judgment entered upon the recognizance, and an execution issued
to the marshal of the district against the goods and lands of
the cognizors; and that certain real estate of the sureties was
levied upon, insufficient (as alleged) to satisfy the execution;
but that no levy was made upon the goods and lands of Williams, for the reason that they were in the possession of said
Ryder, who claimed the right to hold the same partly as assignee under a general assignment made by Williams for the
benefit of his creditors in July, 1876, and partly as auditor in
attachment appointed by the Circuit Court for the county of
Union, in the State of New Jersey, under an attachment issued
against Williams on the 15th of November, 1876, and levied
on the 23d of same month. The bill alleges that Ryder has
since sold the property in his possession by order of the Circuit

UNITED STATES v. RYDER.
Opinion of the Court.

Court of 'Union County, and has in his hands the proceeds,
amounting to several thousand dollars.
The defendant demurred to the bill, and the demurrer was
sustained and the bill dismissed. From that decree the plaintiff appealed to this court.
2.. Assistant Affrey-General .Aaury said that the United
States had no interest in the suit: that the real promoters were
the sureties on the bond, who claimed to be subrogated in the
place of the United States.
.. J Ruley AAton for Woodruff, Clarke, and Kipling,
sureties of Williams.
AXr. John 1 Emery for appellees.
M

JusTICE BRAnL-E

delivered the opinion of the court.

After stating the facts in the foregoing language, he continued:
The grounds on which relief seems to be claimed by the bill,
as far as can be gathered from the statements and the argument of counsel, are: First. That the United States is a judgment and execution creditor, whose remedy at law is exhausted,
and that the funds in the hands of Ryder are equitable assets
which ought to be applied in satisfaction of the judgment:
Second. That the recognizance operated as a lien on the real
estate of Williams from the time of its acknowledgment and
recordation: Third. That under the act of Congress in that
behalf, the United States is entitled to priority over all other
creditors of Williams, he being insolvent, and having made a
general assignment of his property for the benefit of his creditors, and his property being attached as that of an absconding
debtor: Fourth. That the sureties of Williams have, by way
of subrogation, a right to the enforcement of all the remedies
which the United States is entitled to against Williams' property, before resort can be had against them and their property,
or to indemnify them in case of their. satisfying the claim of
the United States; it being conceded on the argument that the
bill was filed, and that the suit is prosecuted in the interest and

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

for the benefit of the sureties. The allegation on this subject
in the bill is as follows:
"And your orator further shows that the said sureties, being
aware that the said Seth B. Ryder has in his hands a large amount
,of money belongin& to their principal and subject to the statutory
claim of your orator to priority, as aforesaid, have claimed, as a
right belonging to them as sureties, that your orator before selling their lands under said execution should seek relief in this
court to compel the said Seth B. Ryder to apply the said fund to

the satisfaction of said execution, as he is bound to do by the
statute, giving your orator a priority upon said fund, in order
that the said moneys of their principal in the hands of said Ryder
may be applied to your orator's claim in exoneration of the said
sureties, so far as the same will extend."
At the coming on of the argument on this appeal, the Solicitor-General of the United States stated, in open court, that
the government has no interest in the suit, the amount of the
recognizance having been paid by the sureties; and that the
suit is prosecuted for the benefit of the sureties only; and this
statement was admitted by the counsel for the sureties, who
alone argued the cause for the appellants.
The questions for us to decide are:
First, Whether, since the recognizance has been paid by the
sureties, they are subrogated to the rights of the United
States:
Secondly, Whether, if thus subrogated, they are entitled to
prosecute in the name of the United States:
Thirdly, If the first two questions are to be answered in the
affirmative, whether a case is made by the bill to entitle the
complainants to relief.
First: Are the sureties subrogated to the rights of the United
States? The general right of sureties, when paying the
debt of their principal, to be subrogated to the rights of the
creditor, whether as a mortgagee, pledgee, or holder of a judgment or execution, or any 6ther security, has been so often and
so fully discussed that nothing further need be added on that
subject. The recent treatise of Mr. Sheldon on the Law of Sub-

UNITED STATES v. RYDER.
Opinion of the Court.

rogation, and the notes to Deringv. FlZ of Winhesea, in 1
White and Tudor's Leading Cases in Equity, 100, refer to the
authorities, and exhibit the general results deducible therefrom;
and in Mr. Burge's Treatise on Suretyship the rules of the civil
law on the same subject are fully set forth. The doctrine is,
that a surety paying the debt for which he is bound, is not
only entitled to all the rights and remedies of the creditor
against the principal for the whole amount, but against the
other sureties for their proportional, part. This is clearly
the rule where the principal obligation is the payment of
money or the performance of a civil duty. And in England
the sureties of a debtor to the King (as for duties, taxes, excise,
&c.), have always, since Magna Oharta at least, had the right,
upon paying the debt, to have the benefit of prerogative process,
such as extent, -or other Crown process adapted to the case, to
aid them in coercing payment from the principal, and compelling contributions from co-sureties. Thus, where upon a 8Cire
facias issued against the heir and executor of one surety, the
defendant paid the debt, it was ordered that he should stand
in the place of the Crown, and have the aid of the court to recover either the whole against the principal, or a moiety against
a co-surety. Manning's Exch. Pract. 563. And where a collector of a township [or parish] was a defaulter, and the township was re-taxed for the deficit, the same relief was given.
Macdonald, Ch. Baron, said:
11The parish stands very much in the nature of sureties ; and it
is a reasonable practice that the party was has made good to
the Crown the default of the defendant, should have the same
remedy that the Crown itself would have; it is besides unanswerable that this is a debt upon record and still subsisting; nor can
it be satisfiea by the re-assessment of the parish." Rex v. Bennett, Wightwick, 1, and cases in note. See als6 Regina v. $alter,
1 Hurlst.-& Nor. 274.
The last observation of the Chief Baron (that the debt of the
collector was still subsisting), was made in view of the opinion
which long prevailed in England, that payment of the debt by
the surety extinguished it, and took away the remedies for en-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

forcing it, even a judgment recovered, and thereby deprived
the surety himself of all advantage of such remedies, and left
him to his action for money paid-a result not recognized
or admitted by most of the courts of this country, and remedied in England by the Mercantile Law Amendment Act, 19
and 20 Vict., c. 97, by virtue of which a payment of the debt
by the surety has virtually the effect of an assignment thereof
to him. Sheldon on Subrogation, §§ 135-138.
This rule of subrogation in favor of the sureties to the prerogative rights and remedies of the Crown seems to be confined
to cases of Crown debtors, such as collectors, receivers, accountants and other fiscal officers, and persons bound for customs
duties excise, taxes and other civil duties. We have not been
able to find any English case in which it has been applied, or
allowed, in favor of bail in a criminal proceeding. It has even
been held that the law raises no liability on the part of the
person bailed to indemnify his bail for what they have been
compelled to pay on their recognizance by reason of his default.
It is said in Highmore on Bail, 204, "if a principal do not appear, and the recognizance be forfeited, and paid by the bail,
yet the principal shall remain open and liable to the law whenever he can be taken, for the penalty in the recognizance is no
other than as a bond to compel the bail to a due observance
thereof, and has no connection with the principal; they could
not sue him thereon for money paid to his use, or on his account, for itwas paid on their own account, and for their own
neglect." In a subsequent edition, it is true, it is said to have
been settled that where a person is. bail for another he is
entitled to recover all the expenses he has incurred incidental
to that situation; and the same statement is made in Petersdorff on Bail, 517; but the only authority cited for the position
is the case of Fisher v. Fallows, 5 Esp. 171, which was a case
of bail in a civil proceeding, and consequently was no authority
for the proposition as applied to criminal cases.
In Jones v. Orchard, 16 C. B. 614, an action on an implied
promise to indemnify bail in a criminal case was sustained in
regard to the costs which he was obliged to Pay on default of
principal under an act of Parliament, but it was virtually con-

UNITED STATES v. RYDER.
Opinion of the Court.

ceded that no such promise of indemnity would be implied for
the non-appearance of the principal, because it would be against
public policy. In the course of the argument, Jervis, C. J.,
said: "As to the non-appearance of the defendant, there can,
I apprehend, be little doubt; but a very different question may
arise as to the costs; and here the recognizance was estreated
only because Orchard failed to pay the costs." And in the
final opinion he said:
"The rule [to set aside a verdict for the plaintiff] was moved
on the ground that a contract, in a criminal case, to indemnify the
bail against the consequences of a default of the principal's
appearance on the trial of the indictment, is contrary to public
policy, and therefore that the law will not presume any such contract. It is unnecessary to decide that point on the present occasion, although we are inclined to think the objection well founded,
and that such a contract would be contrary to public policy, inasmuch as it would be in effect giving the public the security of one
person only, instead of two."
In the subsequent case of Chipjs v. HartnoZl, 4 B. & S. 414,
it was held by the Court of Exchequer Chamber, upon much
consideration, that an express contract to indemnify the bail in
a criminal case might be sustained, but that no such contract is
implied by law. In that case, the plaintiff had become bail for
defendant's daughter upon his promise to hold the plaintiff
harmless. The daughter making default, and the plaintiff
being obliged to pay his recognizance, sued the defendant on
his promise. The latter set up the statute of frauds, and the
question was whether the promise was or was not a collateral
one; if the person for whose appearance bail was given (the
daughter of the defendant) was in law liable -to indemnify her
bail, then the promise of the father was a collateral one, and
void by the statute of frauds for not being in writing; if she
was not thus liable, then the father's promise was an original
promise of indemnity, and the statute of frauds did not apply.
The case was fully argued, first in the King's Bench, 2 B. & S.
697, and afterwards in the Exchequer Chamber on error. The
King's Bench held, in deference to a former case of Green v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

C'resswell, 10 A. & E. 453, that the daughter was primarily
liable, and that the promise of the father was collateral. But
in the Exchequer Chamber it was pointed out that Greem v.
C.resswellwas a case of bail in a civil, and not in: a criminal, proceeding. an(, therefore not an authority in the case under consideration; and the court held that the daughter was not
legally liable, and that the promise was not a collateral one;
and reversed the judgment of the Court of King's Bench.
Chief Baron Pollock, after pointing out the distinction, said:
"Here the bail was given in a criminal proceeding ; and, where
the bail is given in such a proceeding, there is no contract on the
part of the person bailed to indemnify the person who became bail
for him. There is no debt, and with respect to the person who
bails there is hardly a duty ; and it may very well be that the
promise to indemnify the bail in a criminal matter should be considered purely as an indemnity, which it has been decided to be."
-- This decision (made in 1863) has not, so far as we are aware,
been shaken by any subsequent case in England or in this
country; and we think it. is based on very satisfactory grounds.
This may be more apparent when we consider the peculiar
character and objects of bail in criminal cases as compared with
the object and purpose of bail in civil cases. The object of
bail in civil cases is, either directly or indirectly, to secure the
payment of a debt or other civil duty; whilst the object of bail
in criminal cases is to secure the appearance of the principal
before the court for the purposes of public justice. Payment
by the bail in a civil case discharges the obligation of the principal to his creditor, and is only required to the extent of that
obligation, whatever may be the penalty of the bond or recognizance; whilst payment by the bail of their recognizance in
criminal cases, though it discharges the bail, does not discharge
the obligation of the principal to appear in court; that obligation still remains, and the principal may at any time be retaken
and brought into court. To enable the bail, however, to escape the payment of their recognizance by performing that
which the recognizance bound them to do, the government will
lend them its aid in every proper way, by process and without

UNITED STATES v. RYDER.
Opinion of the Court.

process, to seize the person of the principal and compel his appearance. This is the kind of subrogation which exists in criminal cases, namely, subrogation to the means -of enforcing the
performance of the thing which the recognizance of bail is intended to secure the performance of, and not subrogation to
the peculiar remedies which the government may have for collecting the penalty; for this would be to aid the bail to get rid
of their obligation, and to relieve them from the motives to
exert themselves in securing the appearance of the principal.
Subrogation to the latter remedies would clearly be against
public policy by subverting, as far as it might prove effectual,
the very object and purpose of the recognizance. It would be
as though the government should say to the bail, "W6 will aid
you to get the amount of your recognizance from the principal
so that you may be relieved from your obligation to surrender
him to justice." If payment of the recognizance operated as a
satisfaction or composition of the crime, then the subrogation
contended for might be free from this objection; for then the
government would be satisfied in regard to the principal matter
intended to be secured.
We have been referred by the appellant's counsel to two
cases in this country which are supposed to maintain a contrary doctrine to that of the English cases above cited. These
are Reynold4 v. Harral,2 Strobhart, 87, and Simpson v. Roberts,
35 Ga. 180. In Reynolds v. farrat (which was decided in
1847) it was indeed held that bail in a criminal case may maintain an action against their principal for money paid, to indemnify them for what they have been obliged to pay on their
recognizance. But the case stands alone, and the point was
very little discussed; and the court relied for authority upon
the observation in Petersdorff on Bail, already referred to,
which, as we have seen, was based on a decision at nisi priu.s
in a civil proceeding, and was expressly overruled as applied to
criminal cases in C2pp8 v. Hartnol. The other case, Simp8son v. Roberts, was one in which the principal executed a mortgage to the bail to induce him to enter into the recognizance,
and the mortgage was sustained by the court. This decision
entirely accords with that of C6i p8 v. Yartnoll. Neither of
VOL. cx-47

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

the cases cited, therefore, can be regarded as affecting the
authority of that case.
As to the act of Congress which declares that sureties on
bonds given to the United States shall have the same right of
priority which the United States have by law, we do not think
that it contains anything to modify the result to which we
have come. The act referred to is now to be found in § 3468
Rev. Stat., and is as follows:
"Whenever the principal in any bond given to the United
States is insolvent, or whenever such principal being deceased, his
estate and effects which come to the hands of his executor, administrator, or assignee, are insufficient for the payment of his debts,
in either of such cases any surety on the bond, or the executor,
administrator, or assignee of such surety, pays to the United
States the money due upon such bond, such surety, his executor,
administrator, or assignee, shall have the like priority for the recovery and receipt of the moneys out of the estate and effects of such
insolvent or deceased principal as is secured to the United States;
and may bring and maintain suit upon the bond in law or equity,
in his own name, for the recovery of all moneys paid thereon."

We do not understand that this section was intended to embrace recognizances in criminal cases. The section is taken
from, and is substantially a reproduction of, the proviso of the
65th section of the act to regulate the collection of duties,
approved March 2d, 1799, 1 Stat. 676. That section related
to bonds given for the payment of duties, and declared that, if
not satisfied when due, they should be prosecuted without delay; and in all cases of insolvency, or where an estate in the
hands of executors, administrators, or assignees should be insufficient to pay all the debts due from the deceased, the debt
or debts due to the United States, on any such bond or bonds,
should be first satisfied; and any executor, administrator, or
assignee who should pay other debts before paying the United
States, should be personally liable; and the proviso then declared that if the principal in any bond given for duties on
goods, wares, or merchandise imported, or other penalty, should
be insolvent, or if, being deceased, his estate should be insuffi-

UINITED STATES v. RYDER.
Opinion of the Court.

cient to pay all his debts, and if, in either of such cases, any
surety on the said bond or bonds, or the executors, adininistrators or assignees of such surety, should pay to the United
States the money due upon such bond or bonds, such surety,
&c., should have the like advantage, priority, or preference for
the recovery of the said moneys out of the estate of such insolvent, or deceased principal, as were reserved or secured to the
United States, and should and might bring and maintain a suit
or suits upon said bond or bonds in law or equity in his, her,
or their own name or names for the recovery of all moneys
paid thereon.
The only difference between section 3468 of the Revised
Statutes and this proviso is, that the latter in terms relates to
bonds given for duties, whilst the former uses the more general
terms "whenever the principal in any bond given to the United
States is insolvent, &c." If it was intended by Congress to
enlarge the scope of the section so as to include other bonds
than those given for duties (as seems to be the necessary inference from the language), still it is restricted to "bonds :" the
words are, "whenever the principal in any bond given to the
'United States is insolvent, &c.," and any "surety on the bond"
pays the money due upon "such bond," such surety shall have
the like priority, &c., and may bring and maintain a suit upon
"the bond" in his own name, &c. This cautious phraseology,
so carefully avoiding any general words of enlargement beyond
the article of "bonds" alone, seems to imply that, in extending
the peculiar privileges given to sureties, it was onlyintended to do
so in reference to obligations of the same general character with
those referred to in the original act, that is to say, bonds conditioned for the payment of money, or, at most, to embrace,
besides, those conditioned for the performance of some civil
duty, such as the faithful discharge of the duties of an office,
&c. Had it been intended to include sureties for appearance
in criminal cases, the word "recognizance," or some other appropriate term, or some general word adapted to the purpose,
would naturally have been used. The revisers would not have
proposed, nor would Congress have made, such a fundamental
change in the law as the extension of this provision to criminal

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

cases, without employing more appropriate terms for that purpose than those which the section contains. It will not be inferred that the legislature, in revising and consolidating the
laws, intended to change their policy, unless such intention be
r.eDonald v. Ilovey, ante, p. 619.
clearly expressed.
Our opinion is that the right of subrogation does not exist in
this case.
But if the sureties were entitled under the act to the same
priority which the United States have, they are not entitled to
use the name of the United States in prosecuting their claimThe statute expressly declares that they must sue in their own
names. The reason is obvious. The government has many
advantages in proceeding which are not possessed by individuals,
and is not liable to costs; and individuals prosecuting claims
against other individuals ought not to have the advantage of
the name and prestige of the United States. In the case of
ZUniled Statem v. Praton,4 Wash. Cir. Rep. 446, the surety in
a duty bond, having paid the judgment recovered on it, brought
an action in the name of the United States, for his own use,
against the assignees of the principals, and contended that he
was entitled to every advantage which the United States are
entitled to in such a suit, as to sue in the federal court, to require special bail, to demand a trial at the return of the writ,
to exclude equitable defences, &c. The court, by Mr. Sustice
Washington, held that the action could not be brought in the
name of the United States, but only in the name of the surety
himself, and that the only advantage which the law gave to the
surety was that of priority over other creditors, and not in
the form and modes of proceeding.
As it Is conceded that the United States have received full
satisfaction of the recognizance on which the present suit is
based, and that this suit is not prosecuted for the benefit of the
United States, but solely for the benefit of the sureties, we are of
opinion that it cannot be sustained; but that the bill ought to
be dismissed, as well on the ground that the sureties are not
*subrogated to the rights of'the United States, as on the ground
,.
that they cannot sue in the name of the United States.
This conclusion does not touch the merits of the case as set

LEGGETT v. ALLEN.
Opinion of the Court.

up in the bill, considered as a bill filed by the United States
on their own behalf and for their own use; but the bill itself
shows that it was filed for the benefit of the sureties, although
they may not have paid their recognizance when it was fied.
Without deciding, therefore, whether, on demurrer, the bill
might or might not have been sustained, considered purely as
a bill filed by the United States on their own behalf, we are
satisfied that its dismissal by the court below was right, considered as a bill filed on behalf, and for the benefit of, the
sureties. And as it is now admitted that the United States
have been satisfied and paid, and as, for this reason, if for no
other, the bill should be dismissed, our conclusion is that
The decree of the court below be ajfrmed, but without costseack arty to pay their oz= costs on this appeal.

LEGGETT v. ALLEN, Assignee.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCU=

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Submitted March 3d, 184.--DecIded March 10th, 1884.

Bankruptcy.
This court has no jurisdiction to review a judgment of a Circuit Court rendered in a proceeding upon an appeal from an order of a District Court
rejecting the claim of a supposed creditor against the estate of a bankrupt.
Wiwall v. Campbell, 93 U. S. 847, affirmed.

Motion to dismiss.
XrM.
A. J Pals for appellee, moving.
Mr. 2'horndike Saunders for appellant, opposing.
MR.

CmxF fTusTn WAIrE delivered the opinion of the court.

This motion is granted on the authority of TFiswa!l v.
Campbei,93 U. S. 347, in which it was decided that this court
has no jurisdiction to review a judgment of the Circuit Court,
rendered in a proceeding upon an appeal from an order of the

