OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

JONESBORO CITY v. CAIRO & ST. LOUIS RAILROAD COMPANY & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT
THE SOUTHERN

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

Submitted January 2d, 1884.-Decided January 21st, 1834.

Constitutional Law-Illnois-MunicipaZ Bonds-Municip l Corporatiows.

1. Under the Constitution of Illinois in force in 1868, an act authorizing a city
council to borrow money on the credit of the city, and issue bonds under
the seal of the city therefor, did not confer authority to subscribe to the
stock of a railroad company, and issue bonds therefor, even when the
legal voters of the city at a regular election voted to authorize such subscription : but the want of power could be cured by an act declaring an
election theretofore held to be binding, and granting power to issue bonds
to pay for a subscription authorized thereat : and such a curative act
was within the legislative power, and that power was not taken away by
the Constitution of 1870.
2. An act entitled "An Act to amend the charter of the Cairo & St. Louis Railroad Company," which legalized an election previously held in a municipality, at which the people voted to subscribe to the stock of that company and to issue bonds for the payment of the subscription, and which
granted authority to issue such bonds, is no violation of that provision
in the Constitution of Illinois, which provides that "no private or local
law which may be passed by the general assembly shall embrace more
than one subject, and that shall be expressed in the title." Any provision in the title of a bill which calls attention to its subject, although
in general terms, is all that is required by the Constitution.

Bill in equity to obtain an injunction against assessing and
levying taxes to pay for the principal and interest of bonds
issued by a municipal corporation in payment of a subscription
to stock in a railroad company.
. W. S.Day and -Yr. Sidney Grear for appellant.
.WT. George A. Sanders for Graves, appellee.
delivered the opinion of the court.
JUSTICE Hn&aR
This is an appeal from a decree in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Illinois, dismissing
a bill in equity filed by the city of Jonesboro, in that State,
MR.

JONESBORO CITY v. CAIRO & ST. LOUIS R.R. CO. 193
Opinion of the Court.

against the Cairo & St. Louis :Railroad Company, an Illinois
corporation, the auditor of State, the county clerk and sheriff
of Union County, Illinois, and the "Unknown holders of the
Jonesboro City bonds, issued in aid of the Cairo & St. Louis
Railroad Company." The suit was commenced in one of the
courts of the State. Its object was to obtain a decree perpetually
enjoining the State and county officers, who were made defendants, from levying, certifying, and extending any tax for
the payment either of the principal or interest of said bonds.
There was no defence upon the part of those officers, and after
publication against the "unknown holders" of the bonds in the
mode prescribed by the local statute, a decreepro confesso was
passed, giving the relief asked, and declaring the bonds invalid
as against the city.
Subsequently Luther R. Graves, a citizen of Vermont, presented his petition, in conformity with the State law, alleging
his ownership of some of the bonds, and asking that the default
be set aside with permission to him to plead, demur, or answer
under the orders of the court. The petition was granted, and
he was made a party defendant. Thereafter, on his further
petition, the cause was removed to the court from whose decree
this appeal was taken.
The evidence shows that on the 2d day of March, 1868,
a resolution was passed by the city council of Jonesboro submitting to the legal voters of that municipality, at its then
next regular election, held April 6th, 1868, the question whether
that city should, upon certain named conditions, subscribe
850,000 to the capital stock of the Cairo & St. Louis Railroad
Company, payable in bonds within twenty years after date at
the option of the city, with interest at the rate of eight per
cent. per annum from the date of issue. The election was held
at the time indicated.
Subsequently, by an act of the general assembly of Illinois,
which became a law on March 3d, 1869, entitled "An Act to
amend An act entitled 'An Act to incorporate the Cairo & St.
Louis Railroad Company,'" approved February 16th, 1865,
authority.was given to the several towns, cities, and counties
through or near which that railroad might pass, and to the
VOL. cX-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

several townships in said counties which may have adopted, or
might thereafter adopt, the township organization, to subscribe
for and take stock in the company, or to make a donation in
aid of the construction of the road, and issue bonds for such
subscriptions or donations, to be paid by taxation upon the
property of the municipality issuing them. It was provided
that no subscription or donation should be made, nor bonds
issued, nor tax levied, unless a majority of the legal voters of the
municipality, voting at an election called and held as provided
in the act should assent to the subscription or donation. But
it was further provided in the same act
" that all elections heretofore had in any county, city, or town in
reference to a subscription to said railroad, are hereby declared
legal and binding, and the County Court of any county, and the
corporate authorities of any city or town in which such elections
have been already held, and a majority of the votes cast were for
subscription, shall have authority to issue bonds for such an
amount as was voted for, notwithstanding any insufficiency, informality, or irregularity in such election or in the notice thereof."
Pri. Laws Ill. 1869, vol. 3, pp. 256-7-8.

By an ordinance of the city council of Jonesboro passed July
,21st, 1871-which referred to the resolutions of March 2d, 1868,
.and recited that at the election of April 6th, 1868, all the votes
bast favored the subscription-it was enacted that the proposed
subscription of $50,000 "be, and is hereby, made upon the conditiong specified in said resolutions," and that bonds be issued
for the purpose of paying the same. The clerk was directed to
have them prepared and delivered to John E. 1aill, who by
the ordinance was
"appointed agent on behalf of the city to receive from the clerk
the said bonds and to deliver the same to the said company, its
authorized agent or officer, upon compliance by the said company
with the conditions in said resolutions specified, and at the same
time to receive from the said company its certificate or certificates
of stock (paid up) in said company to an amount equal to the
amount of the bonds so delivered, and that he immediately deliver
such certificate or certificates to the'city council."

JONTESBORO CITY v. CAIRO & ST. LOUIS R.R. CO. 195
Opinion of the Court
Under date of July 1st, 1872, there was executed and
delivered to Naill $25,000 of the bonds directed to be issued.
They purport to have been issued by the city, were signed by
its mayor and countersigned by its treasurer and clerk, and
made payable to the railroad company or bearer at the Bank
of Commerce in New York. Each one recites that" This bond is issued under and by virtue of the charter of said
city, and of ordinances passed in pursuance thereof, in payment
of so much of the subscription by said city for fifty shares of the
capital stock of said Cairo and St. Louis Railroad Company.
The proposition to subscribe for said stock having been first submitted, as required by law, to the qualified voters of said city
for their approval or rejection, at a special election regularly
held for that purpose at the various voting precincts or wards
in and of said city, on the 6th day of April, A D. 1868, and more
than two-thirds of said voters having at said election assented
thereto, and said majority of voters also being a majority over
all the votes cast at the last preceding regular election held in
and for said city, and said Cairo and St. Louis Railroad Company
having duly performed all the conditions of said subscription to
be performed on its part before said bond was to be issued."
On the 13th day of October, 1814, there was filed in the

office of the auditor of State the official sworn certificate of the
then mayor of Jonesboro (who as clerk had attested the bonds
when issued), attested by the city clerk, to the effect that the
before-mentioned bonds, amounting to $25,000, were entitled
to registration in the ofte of auditor under the act of April
16th, 1869, entitled '1An Act to fund and provide for paying
the railroad debts of counties," that they were issued by
said city to said railroad company "under and by authority of
the provisions of an act of the general assembly of Tlinois approved March 3d, 1869, and by a vote of the people of said
city at an election held on the 6th day of April, 1868." That
certificate concluded:

"And I, as mayor of said city, do hereby certify that all the
preliminary conditions in the act in force April 16th, 1869,-re,
quired to be done to authorize the registration of these bonds,.and

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
to entitle thbm to the benefits of said act last referred to, have
been fully complied with to the best of my knowledge and belief."
On the day that certificate was filed the auditor of State
indorsed on each bond that it had been registered in his
office pursuant to the provisions of the said act in force April
16th, 1869.
It was stipulated in the cause that the interest on the
bonds so issued had been regularly paid by the city from the
date of their delivery to the issuing of the injunction by the
State court in September, 1882.
1. It is entirely clear that when the vote of April 6th, 1868,
was taken, the city of Jonesboro was not authorized by its charter, or by any statute of Illinois, to make a subscription to the
capital stock of the Cairo and St. Louis Railroad Company.
The power given to its city council "to borrow money on the
credit of the city and issue their bonds under the seal of the
city therefor," did not, alone, confer authority to subscribe to
the stock of a railroad company, and issue bonds in payment
thereof. The bonds upon their face showed that they were
not issued for an ordinary municipal purpose. 1Lewis v. Srmveport,. 108 U. S. 282.
2. But the act passed April 15th, 1869, and which became a
'law on :Narch 3d, 1869, declared legal and binding aIZ elections
theretofore held in any county, city, or town, in reference to a
subscription to the stock of the Cairo and St. Louis Railroad
Company, and gave power to the County Court of any county,
and the corporate authorities of any city or town in which
such elections had already been held, and a majority of the
votes cast were for subscription, to issue bonds for the amount
voted, "notwithstanding any insufficiency, or informality, or
irregularity in such election, or in the notice thereof." The
election of April 6th, 1868, was something more than informal
or irregular. It was insufficient, in itself, as authority for an
issue of bonds. But its insufficiency was removed by the act
of 1869, if the general assembly of Illinois had the power to
do so. That it had such power cannot well be doubted. It

JONESBORO CITY v. CAIRO & ST. LOUIS R.R. CO. 197
Opinion of the Court.

has been frequently decided by the Supreme Court of that
State-and upon that point there has been no disagreement
between that learned tribunal and the courts of the Union-that
prior to the adoption of the Illinois Constitution of 1870, an
incorporated city, its corporate authorities being thereunto authorized by the legislature, could make a subscription to the
capital stock of a railroad company, without referring the
question of subscription to a popular vote. Eeithsburg v. Frick,
31: Ill. 405, 421 ; Quincy, .Missouri & _Pacifa Railroad Company v. 2Torris, 8-4 Tb. 410; MarshJull v. Silliman, 61 Tb. 218,
225; Quincy v. Cook, 107 U. S. 549. The legislature, therefore, could make the election of 1868 legal and binding as an
expression of the popular will, and, upon the basis of the election thus legalized, empower or authorize the corporate authorities of the municipality to issue the bonds for the amount
indicated by the popular vote.
There is no question here, such as has arisen in some cases
in the Supreme Court of Illinois, and in this court, as to the
power of the legislature, prior to the adoption of the Constitution of 1870, to compel the corporate authorities of a municipality to issue bonds in aid of the construction of a railroad.
While the act of 1869 legalized the election of 1868, it did not
require an issue of bonds, but only gave power to the corporate authorities of the municipality to do so; such authorities,
in the case of an incorporated city, being, not the voters, but
its mayor and council. Williarm v. Towm of Roberts, 88 IlL
11; Quincy v. Cooke, mpura. If the conditions attached to
the subscription by popular vote, or by the ordinance of the
city council of Jonesboro, had not been complied with when the
curative act of 1869 was passed, then the railroad company
would not have been entitled to have the bonds issued. This
shows that the curative act does not belong to that class
which the Supreme Court of the State, has, in some cases,
held to be beyond the constitutional power of the legislature
to pass.
3. The next question to be considered is whether the Constitution of Illinois adopted in 1870 took from the city of
Jonesboro the power thereafter to issue the bonds voted by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

election of 1868 and authorized by the act of 1869.
strument declares that

That in-

"no county, city, town, township, or other municipality shall
ever become subscribers to the capital stock of any railroad or
private corporation, or make donation to or loan its credit in aid
of such corporation : Provided,however, That the adoption of this
article shall not be construed as affecting the right of any such
municipality to make such subscriptions where the same have
been authorized, under existing laws, by a vote of the people of
such municipality prior to such adoption."

We are of opinion that the right of the city to make the
subscription in question, and to issue bonds in 'payment thereof,
was saved by the proviso of that section. Before and at the
time of the adoption of the Constitution of 1870, the city, by
its corporate authorities, had power to subscribe to the stock
of this railroad company. Power to that end was conferred
by the act of 1869, which was itself based upon a vote of the
people of Jonesboro. The vote, when taken, was, it is true,
without legal sanction, but it was made effective as an expression of the popular will by the statute subsequently passed and
in force before the Constitution of 1870 was adopted. The
phrase "under existing laws," in the section of the Constitution referred to, relates, we think, to the time of the adoption
of the Constitution rather than to the time when the vote of
the people was in fact taken. Looking at the purpose of the
proviso in the Constitution of 1870, we cannot suppose that
the framers of that instrument intended to make a difference,
in the operation of that proviso, between a subscription authorized by a vote legally taken, and a subscription authorized by
a vote taken without legislative authority, but subsequently,
and before the Constitution went into operation, legalized by a
valid act of assembly.
4. But it is insisted that that part of the act of 1869 legalizing the election of 1868 and conferring authority to issue
bonds for the amount voted at that election, was in violation
of section 23 of article 3 of the Illinois Constitution of 1848,
which provides that "no private or local law which may be

JONESBORO CITY -v.
CAIRO & ST. LOUIS R.R. CO. 199
Opinion of the Court.

passed by the general assembly shall embrace more than one
subject, and that shall be expressed in the title." The title of
the act is "An Act to amend the charter of the Cairo and St.
Louis Railroad Company." The contention is, that the legalization of an election previously held, and at which the people
voted in favor of a subscription of stock to that company and
the granting of authority to issue bonds in payment of such
subscription, is not a subject expressed by the title of the act.
In this view we do not concur, and our conclusion is justified
by the later decisions of the Supreme Court of Illinois construing a similar provision in the State Constitution of 1870. It
was held in Johnson v. People, 83 Il. 431, that the Constitution "does not require that the subject of the bill must be specifically and exactly expressed in the title; hence we conolude
that any expression in the title which calls attention to the
subject of the bill, although in general terms, is all that is required." People v. owenthal, 93 Ill. 191. The authority of
municipalities to make subscriptions in aid of the construction
of railroads in Illinois has frequently, if not generally, been
given in the charters of the respective railroad corporations.
Whether a particular municipality has legislative authority for
a subscription to the stock of a particular railroad company
can be determined, ordinarily, by referring to the charter of
that company. The general subject of municipal subscriptions
to the stock of this particular company was, therefore, germane
to and fairly embraced by the title of the act of 1869. Upon
like grounds a provision in the same act legalizing a previous
election at which the people voted in favor of a subscription
and giving authority to issue bonds for the amount indicated
by the popular vote, was sufficiently covered by a title showing
that the act in question was amendatory of the original charter of the company; this, because the validity of bonds so
issued would depend upon the existence of legislative authority to issue them, and the existence of such authority
would ordinarily be ascertained by reference to the charter
and amended charter of the railroad corporation. Our decision in ofontclair v. _Ramsdell, 107 U. S. 147, expresses substantially the same views, upon this general subject, as those

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

announced by the Supreme Court of Illinois in Johon v.
People.
We are of opinion that no error was committed in dismissing the bill, so far as it questioned the authority of the State
officers to assess, levy, and extend taxes in payment of the
bonds held by the appellee Graves.
The decree is, consequently, affirmed.
It isso ordered.

ZAINE & Another v. SOFFE.
APPEAL FROM TE

cIRcurr COURT OF THE UNMID

STATES

OR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued October 24th, 18S3.-Decided January21st,
1834.

Evidence-Patent.
1. A patent was issued June 22d, 1865, to one Jennings (and subsequently
assigned to appellants), for an improvement in self-acting cocks and
faucets. The first claim was for a "screw follower H in combination
with the valve of a self-closing faucet, substantially as set forth, and
for the purpose described." This screw follower was a round stem
"provided with a coarse screw thread or threads." It projected upward
through the faucet, and terminated' in a handle for the purpose of turning it downward to let on 'the water. At its lower end it rested upon a
valve. which was supported-by a spiral spring, the object of this spring
being to keep the valve closed when the pressure was removed. It appearing that for ten or fifteen years before the date of J.'s patent B. had
manufactured and sold faucets in which an inclined plane or cam was
used as a means of producing the result upon the valve stem which was
produced by J.'s screw: Held, That J.'s 1st claim must be limited to a
screw follower, and could not be construed to embrace an arrangement
for moving the valve.
2. Since the decision in Loom Company v. Higgins, 105 U. S. 580, it is Held,
That under a general denial of the patentee's priority of invention, evidence of prior knowledge and use, taken without objection, is competent
at the final hearing, not only as demonstrative of the state of the art,
and therefore competent to limit the construction of the patent to the
precise form of parts and mechanism described and claimed, but also on
the question of the validity of the patent.

Bill in equity, setting forth an infringement of a patent for

