HOLLAND v,. CHAILEN.
Syllabus.

poration, as represented by the board of directors. When,
during a series of years or in numerous business transactions,
he has been permitted, without objection and in his official
capacity, to pursue a particular course of conduct, it may be
presumed, as between the bank and those who in good faith
deal with it upon the basis of his authority to represent the
corporation, that he has acted in conformity with instructions
received from those who have the right to control its operations. Directors cannot, in justice to those who deal with the
bank, shut their eyes to what is going on around them. It is
their duty to use ordinary diligence in ascertaining the condition of its business, and to exercise reasonable control and
supervision of its officers. They have something more to do
than, from time to time, to elect the officers of the bank, and
to make declarations of dividends. That which they ought,
by proper diligence, to have known as to the general course of
business in the bank, they may be presumed to have known
in any contest between the corporation and those who are
justified by the circumstances in dealing with its officers upon
the basis of that course of business.
These principles govern the case before us, and lead necessarily to an affirmance of the decree adjudging the surrender
cancellation of the old deeds and the notes given by Kenney,
and declaring the liens in favor of Remsen's trustees and Frank
& Darrow to be superior to that of the bank.
It i8 so rdered.

HOLLAND v. 0HALLENT.
APPEAL FROM1 THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FORTE
DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
Submitted December 13th 1683.-Decided January 7th, 1884.

Equity-ebraaka-Stalules.

1. A statute of Nebraska provided that an action may be brought and prosecuted to final decree, judgment, or order, by any person or persons.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Argument for the Appellee.
whether in actual possession or not, claiming the title to real estate, against
any person or persons who claim an adverse estate or interest therein, for
the purpose of determining such estate or interest, and quieting the title
to such real estate: Hdd, That it dispensed with thb general rule of courts
of equity, that in order to maintain a bill to quiet title, it is necessary that
the party should ba in possession, and in most cases that his title should
have been established by law, or founded on undisputed evidence, or
long continued possession. Clark v. Smith, 13 Pet. 195, with reference
to a Kentucky statute in some respects similar, approved.
2 Jurisdiction over proceedings to quiet title and prevent litigation is inherent
in courts of equity ; and although the courts have imposed limitations
upon its exercise, it is always competent for the legislative power to remove those restrictions.
8. While it is true that alterations in the jurisdiction of State courts cannot
affect the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the United States, so long
as the equitable rights themselves remain ; yet an enlargement of equitable rights may be administered by the Circuit Couits as well as by the
courts of the State.
4. Under the Nebraska statute cited above, a bill to quiet title which, on its
face, presented a good title in the complainant, gave him the right to call
upon the defendant to produce and disclose whatever estate he had in the
premises in question, to the end that its validity might be determined,
and, if adjudged invalid, that the title of the plaintiff might be quieted.

Bill in equity to quiet title. Plaintiff claimed under a tax
sale, but did not aver possession. Defendant was owner prior
tb the tax sale. The bill charged:
"That said defendant is contriving now to wrong and injure
your orator in the premises by claiming to be the owner of said
real estate, and by trying to obtain, take, and keep possession
thereof, and by denying and slandering your orator's title to and
his right of possession thereof, all of which acts, doings, and pretences of said defendant are contrary to equity and good conscience, and tend to the manifest wrong, injury, and oppression of
your orator in the premises."
The defendants demurred, and the court below dismissed the
bill.

The plaintiff appealed.

2.r. Lmis A. hoff and Xr.C.S. Yontgomery for appellant.
-L

Xr.T. TV -3fargme and Xr.Geo. W. Doane for appellee.
This bill is exhibited by the holder of the tax titles to

HOLLAND v. CHALLEN.
Opinion of the Court.

have the same established as against the true owner, who
claimed the fee-simple title, before the complainant acquired
any interest in the property described in the bill, and who
still claims it. The title so held by complainant, and the
only title which he holds, as shown by the averments of his
bill, is at best a very doubtful title, and the principle applied
by courts of equity is, that where a complainant has himself
a doubtful title, he cannot have the relief sought in a bill guia
timet. West v. ScAuek1ey, 54 Ill. 523; Huningtm v. Allen, 44
Miss. 654; Low v. Staples, 2 Nev. 209.-I. The bill states no
facts constituting grounds for equitable relief. It sets forth
the tax deeds held by complainant, the adverse fee-simple
title claimed by the defendant, that complainant is entitled to
possession and that defendant is keeping him out of possession,
or in the language of the bill, "trying to obtain, take and
keep possession thereof," and denying the right of possession of
complainant. These allegations are sufficient as the basis of
an action at law to recover possession, but there is not an
allegation in the bill showing any ground for equitable juris.
diction.
M JUsTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity to quiet the title of the plaintiff to
certain real property in Nebraska as against the claim of the
defendant to an adverse estate in the premises. It is founded
upon a statute of that State which provides:
"That an action may be brought and prosecuted to final decree, judgment, or order by any person or persons, whether in actual
possession or not, claiming title to real estate, against any person or
persons who claim an adverse estate or interest therein, for the
purpose of determining such estate or interest and quieting the
title to such real estate."
The bill alleges that the plaintiff is the owner in fee simple
and entitled to the possession of the real property described.
It then sets forth the origin of his title, particularly specifying
the deeds by which it was obtained, and alleges that the defendant claims an adverse estate or interest in the premises;
VOL. CX-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Cou&

that the claim so affects his title as to render a sale or other
disposition of the property impossible, and that it disturbs him
in his right of possession. It therefore prays that the defendant may be required to show the nature of the adverse estate
or interest claimed by her; that the title of the plaintiff may
be adjudged valid and quieted as against her and parties claiming under her, and his right of possession be thereby assured;
and that the defendant may be decreed to have no estate in
the premises and "be enjoined from in any manner injuring or
hindering" the plaintiff in his title and possession.
The defendant demurred to the bill, on the ground that the
plaintiff had not made or stated such a case as entitled him to
the discovery or relief prayed. The court below sustained the
demurrer and dismissed the bill. From this decree the case is
brought here on appeal.
It does not appear from the record in what particulars it
was contended in the court below that the bill is defective,
that is, in what respect it fails to show a right to the relief
zprayed. We infer, however, from the briefs of counsel, that
the same positions now urged in support of the decree were
then urged against the bill, that is, that the title of the plaintiff to the property has not been by prior proceedings judicially
adjudged to be valid, and that he is not in possession of the
property-the contention of the defendant being, that when
either of these conditions exists, a court of equity will not interpose its authority to remove a cloud upon the title of the
plaintiff and determine his right to the possession of the property.
The statute of Nebraska enlarges the class of cases in which
relief was formerly afforded by a court of equity in quieting
the title to real property. It authorizes the institution of legal
proceedings not merely in cases where a bill of peace would
lie, that is, to establish the title of the plaintiff against numerous parties insisting upon the same right, or to obtain repose
against repeated litigation of an unsuccessful claim by the
same party; but also to prevent future litigation respecting
the property by.removing existing caused of controversy as to
its title, and so embraces cases where a bill quid timet to remove-a cloud upon the title would lie.

HOLLAND v. CHALLEN.
Opinion of the Court.

A bill of peace against an individual reiterating an unsuccessful claim to real property would formerly lie only where
the plaintiff was in possession and his right had been successfully maintained. The equity of the plaintiff in such cases
arose from the protracted litigation for the possession of the
property which the action of ejectment at common law permitted. That action being founded upon a fictitious demise,
between fictitious parties, a recovery in one action constituted
no bar to another similar action: or to any number of such
actions. A change in the date of the alleged demise was sufficient to support a new action. Thus the party in possession,
though successful in every instance, might be harassed and
vexed, if not ruined, by a litigation constantly renewed. To
put an end to such litigation and give repose to the successful
party, courts of equity interfered and closed the controversy.
To entitle the plaintiff to relief in such cases, the concurrence
of three particulars was essential: He must have been in possession of the property, he must have been disturbed in its possession by repeated actions at law, and he must have established his right by successive judgments in his favor. Upon
these facts appearing, the court would interpose and grant a perpetual injunction to quiet the possession of the plaintiff against
any further litigation from the same source. It was only in
this way that adequate relief could be afforded against vexatious litigation and the irreparable mischief which it entailedAdams on Equity, 202; Pomeroy's Equity Jurisprudence,

ยง248; Stak v. Starrs, 6 Wall. 402; Curtis v. Sutter, 15 Cal.
259 ; 87wpley v. Rangeley, 2 Ware, 242 ; Devonsher v. Hewenham, 2 Schoales & Lef. 199.
In most of the States in this country, and Nebraska among
them, the action of ejectment to recover the possession of real
property as existing at common law has been abolished with
all its fictions. Actions for the possession of such property are
now not essentially different in form from actions for other
property. It is no longer necessary to allege what is not true
in fact and not essential to be proved. The names of the real
contestants must appear as parties to the action, and it is
generally sufficient for the plaintiff to allege the possession or

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

seizin by him of the premises in controversy, or of some estate
therein, on some designated day, the subsequent entry of the
defendant, and his withholding of the premises from the
plaintiff; and although the plaintiff may in such cases recover,
when a present right of possession is established, though the
ownership be in another, yet such right may .involve, and
generally does involve, a consideration of the actual ownership
of the property; and in such cases the judgment is as much a
bar to future litigation between the parties with respect to the
title as a judgment in other actions is a bar to future litigation
upon the subjects determined. Where this new form of action
is adopted, and this rule as to the effect of a judgment therein
obtains, there can be no necessity of repeated adjudications at
law upon the right of the plaintiff as a preliminary to his invoking the jurisdiction of a court of equity to quiet his possession against an asserted claim to the property.
A bill guia timet, or to remove a cloud upon the title of real
estate, differed from a bill of peace in that it did not seek so
.much to put an end to vexatious litigation respecting the prop:erty, as to prevent future litigation by removing existing causes
of controversy as to its title. It was brought in view of anticipated wrongs or mischiefs, and the jurisdiction of. the court
was invoked because the party feared future injury to his rights
and interests. Story's Equity, ยง 826. To maintain a suit of
this character it was generally necessary that the plaintiff
should be in possession of the property, and, except where the
defendants were numerous, that his title should have been
established at law or be founded on undisputed evidence or
long continued possession. Alexander v. Pendleton, 8 Cranch,
462; Peirsollv. Elliott, 6 Pet. 95; Orton v. Smith, 18 How.
263..
The statute of Niebraska authorizes a suit in either of these
classes of cases without reference to any previous judicial determination of the validity of the plaintiff's right, and without
reference to his possession. Any person claiming title to real
estate, whether in or out of possession, may maintain the suit
against one who claims an adverse estate or interest in it, for
the purpose of determining such estate and quieting the title.

HOLLAND v. CHALLEN.
Opinion of the CourL

It is certainly for the interest of the State that this jurisdiction
of the court should be maintained, and that causes of apprehended litigation respecting real property, necessarily affecting
its use and enjoyment, should be removed; for so long as they
remain they will prevent improvement and consequent benefit
to the public. It is a matter of every-day observation that
many lots of land in our cities remain unimproved because of
conflicting claims to them. The rightful owner of a parcel in
this condition hesitates to place valuable improvements upon it,
and others are unwilling to purchase it, much less to erect
buildings upon it, with the certainty of litigation and possible
loss of the whole. And what is true of lots in cities, the
ownership of which is in dispute, is equally true of large tracts
of land in the country. The property in this case, to quiet the
title to which the present suit is brought, is described in the
bill as unoccupied, wild, and uncultivated land. Few persons
would be willing to take possession of such land, enclose, cultivate and improve it, in the face of a disputed claim to its
ownership. The cost of such improvements would probably
exceed the value of the property. An action for ejectment for
it would not lie, as it has no occupant; and if, as contended by
the defendant, no relief can be had in equity because the party
claiming ownership is not in possession, the land must continue
in its unimproved condition. It is manifestly for the interest
of the community that conflicting claims to property thus
situated should be settled, so that it may be subjected -to use
and improvement. To meet cases of this character, statutes,
like the one of Nebraska, have been passed by several States,
and they accomplish a most useful purpose. And there is no
good reason why the right to relief against an admitted obstruction to the cultivation, use, and improvement of lands thus
situated in the States should not be enforced by the federal
courts, when the controversy to which it may give rise is
between citizens of different States.
In C/lark v. Smith, 13 Pet. 195, a doctrine is declared, with
reference to the legislation of Kentucky as to the removal
of clouds upon titles to land, which seems to us to be am
plicable here, and to be decisive of this point. A law of

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court

that State, regulating proceedings in the courts of chancery,
provided:
"That any person having both the legal title to and possession
of land may institute a suit against any other person setting up a
claim thereto, and if the complainant shall be able to establish
his title to such land, the defendant shall be decreed to release
his claim thereto and pay the complainant his costs, unless the
defendant shall by answer disclaim all title to such lands, and
offer to give such release to the complainant."
Under that act, the complainant Clark filed a bill in the Circuit Court of the United States to compel the defendant to
release the title claimed by him to certain lands, under patents
from the State of Kentucky, obtained years after the registration of the survey of the ancestor of the complainant and
patent to him. The Circuit Court heard the evidence of the
parties as to their respective claims, and was of opinion that
the complainant &iad established a legal title to the premises
under a valid grant from the commonwealth, and was in possession at the commencement of the suit, and that the defendant had not shown any right or title, either in law or in equity,
to the land or any part of it; but being divided in opinion on
the question of the jurisdiction of the court to compel the defendant to execute a conveyance, the bill was dismissed. On
the case coming here, the decree below was reversed. In giving its decision this court referred to the unsettled condition of
titles in Kentucky, and observed that,
"Conflicts of title were unfortunately so numerous that no one

knew from whom to buy or take lands with safety, nor could improvements be made, without great hazard, by those in possession
who had conflicting claims hanging over them, and which might
thus continue for half a century; the writ of right being limited
to fifty years in some cases, that is, where it was brought upon
the seizin of an ancestor or predecessor, and to thirty years if on
the demandant's own seizin. During all which time the party
in possession had no power to litigate, much less to settle the title
at law, though he might be harassed by many actions of ejectment and his peace and property destroyed, although always suc-

HOLLAND v. CHALEN.
Opinion of the Court.

cessful, by no means an uncommon occurrence.

This evil it was

the object and policy of the legislature to cure, not so much by
prescribing a mode of proceeding as by conferring a right on him
who had the better title and the possession to draw to him the
outstanding inferior claims." And again : "Kentucky has the
undoubted power to regulate and protect individual rights to her
soil and to declare what should form a cloud on titles; and, having so declared, the courts of the United States, by removing such
clouds, are only applying an old process to a new equity created
by the legislature, having its origin in the peculiar condition of
the country." "The State legislatures," the court added, "certainly have no authority to prescribe the forms and modes of proceeding in the courts of the United States, but having created a
right and at the same time prescribed the remedy to enforce it,
if the remedy prescribed is substantially consistent with the ordinary modes of proceeding on the chancery side of the federal
courts, no reason exists why it should not be pursued in the same
form as in the State court ; on the contrary, propriety and convenience suggest that the practice should not materially differ where
titles to lands are the subjects of investigation. And such is the
constant course of the federal courts."

The opinion concludes with the observation:
"That when investigating and decreeing on titles in this country we must deal with them in practice as we find them, and accommodate our modes of proceeding, in a considerable degree, to
the nature of the case and the character of the equities involved
in the controversy, so as to give effect to State legislation and
State policy; not departing, however, from what legitimately
belongs to the practice of a court of chancery."

That case differs from the one at bar in that the complainant
was in possession of the premises at the commencement of the
suit, and the law of Kentucky gave the right to the relief

claimed only to persons having both the legal title and the
possession. But the law did not require that such possession
should have been disturbed by legal proceedings and that the
title of the plaintiff should be sustained in them by judgments
in his favor, before the court could entertain jurisdiction of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Cour,

case and grant the relief prayed; and therefore no such disturbance of his possession and adjudication sustaining h5 title
were held to be essential to the maintenance of the suit. If
the jurisdiction to grant the relief prayed remained unaffected
when the legislature had thus dispensed with previous legal
proceedings affecting the possession of the plaintiff, it would
seem to follow that the jurisdiction would remain unimpaired
if possession itself, as a condition of the institution of the suit,
was also dispensed with.
The truth is that the jurisdiction to relieve the holders of real
property from vexatious claims to it casting a cloud upon their
title, and thus disturbing them in its peaceable use and enjoyment, is inherent in a court of equity; and though conditions
to its exercise have at different times been prescribed by that
court, both in England and in this country, they may at any
time be changed or dispensed with by the legislature without
impairing the general authority of the court. Pomeroy's
Equity Jurisprudence, ยง 1398. The equitable rights of parties
in Nebraska claiming the legal title to real property are simply
enlarged by its statute, not changed in character. And the
language used by this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Bradley,
in the Brodenek Mill Cme, 21 Wall. 520, is appropriate here:
" Whilst it is true that alterations in the jurisdiction of the
State courts cannot affect the equitable jurisdiction of the Circuit
Courts of the United States, so long as the equitable rights them-selves remain, yet an enlargement of equitable rights may be
administered by the Circuit Courts as well as by the courts of
the State." And it may be affirmed of this case, what was said
as probably true of that one, that it is "1a case in which an enlargement of equitable rights is effected, although presented in
the form of a remedial proceeding." "Indeed," as the court
there observed, "much of equitable jurisdiction consists of better and more effective remedies for attaining the rights of
parties."
No adequate relief to the owners of real property against
the adverse claims of parties not in possession can be given by
a court of law. If the holders of such claims do not seek to
enforce them, the party in possession, or entitled to the pos-

HOLLAND v. CHALLEN.
Opinion of the Court.

session-the actual owner of the fee-is helpless in the matter,
unless he can resort to a court of equity.
It does not follow that by allowing in the federal courts a
suit for relief under the statute of Nebraska, controversies
properly cognizable in a court of law will be drawn into a
court of equity. There can be no controversy at law respecting
the title to or right of possession of real property when neither of the parties is in possession. An action at law, whether
in the ancient form of ejectment or in the form now commonly
used, will lie only against a party in possession. Should suit
be brought in the federal court, under the Nebraska statute,
against a party in possession, there would be force in the objection that a legal controversy was withdrawn from a court
of law; but that is not this case, nor is it of such cases we are
speaking. Undoubtedly, as a foundation for the relief sought,
the plaintiff must show that he has a legal title to the premises,
and generally that title will be exhibited by conveyances or
instruments of record, the construction and effect of which will
properly rest with the court. Such, also, will generally be the
case with the adverse estates or interests claimed by others.
This was the character of the proofs establishing the title of
the complainant in Clark v. Smith, already cited. But should
proofs of a different character be produced, the controversy
would still be one upon which a court of law could not act. It
is not an objection to the jurisdiction of equity that leoal questions are presented for consideration which might also arise in
a court of law. If the controversy be one in which a court of
equity only can afford the relief prayed for, its jurisdiction is
unaffected by the character of the questions involved.
In the present case the plaintiff claims under a purchaser
at a tax sale by the State, to whom deeds by the treasurer
of the county in which the property is situated were executed.
By the law of Nebraska the fee of real property, and not
merely a term of years, may be sold for unpaid taxes. A
certain time is allowed to the owner to redeem the property
from such a sale, but if redemption is not made within the
period designated, a deed is executed by the treasurer of the
county to the purchaser, and such deed vests in him the right,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

title, and estate of the formef owner of the land and also of
the State and county, and is evidence in all courts that the
property conveyed was subject to the taxes for the years
stated; that they were not paid, and that redemption was not
made before the sale; that the property had been properly
listed and assessed and the taxes properly levied; that the
property was advertised for sale in the manner and for the
length of time required, and was sold as stated in the deed,
and that the grantee named was the purchaser or assignee
of the purchaser of the property; and, indeed, that all the prerequisites of the law had been complied with by the officers
whose duty it was to have taken any part in the transaction
relating to or affecting the title conveyed. NYo person is permitted to question the title thus acquired without showing
that he had title to the property at the time of the sale, or
has since obtained the title from the United States, and that
the property was not subject to taxation for the years named; or
that the taxes had been paid before th6 sale, or that the property
had never been assessed for taxation, or had been redeemed
from the sale, or that there had been fraud committed by the
officer in making the sale, or by the purchaser to defeat it.
The plaintiff, therefore, had a complete legal title to the
premises in controversy, unless some one of the defects mentioned, affecting the v4idity of the assessment and sale of the
property, existed at the time, or fraud had been committed
by the officer or purchaser in the sale. Having an apparent
legal title by the deeds, it was, of course, important to him
and, indeed, necessary for the peaceable possession of the
property and its improvement, to have any adverse claims, notwithstanding such deeds, considered and settled.
We think, therefore, that he was entitled, upon the statement made in his amended bill, the only one before us, to call
upon the defendant to produce and disclose whatever estate
she had in the premises in question, to the end that its validity
may be determined; and if adjudged invalid, that the title of
the plaintiff may be quieted. It follows that the decree of the
court below must be reversed and the cause remanded, with
leave to the defendant to answer the bill; and I is o ordea.

