OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

If Hiram Cable is not to be concluded by anything done in
his absence, he ought not to be allowed to force himself into
the suit at this late day. No sale made under a decree to which
he is not actually or constructively a party can cut off his rights.
If he can be bound by a decree in his absence, it is because he
has been all the time represented in the suit by Philander Cable,
under whom he claims, and as an intervenor he can do nothing
that might not have been done for him by his representative
without his intervention. He took his place by intervention in
the suit subject to all the disabilities that rested at the time on
the party in whose stead he is to act. If his application to
have his rights in respect to the improvements he has put on
the property settled in this suit can be entertained at all, it will
be only as an incident to the original controversy, and whatever would bar a removal of suit before he intervened -will bar
him afterwards, even though by his intervention he may havie
raised a separate controversy.
This disposes of the case, for, as has already been seen, the
right to remove this suit was barred long before Hiram Cable
intervened. Without, therefore, determining whether Hiram
Cable can claim the benefit of his improvements, notwithstanding the pendency of the suit, or whether, if his petition had
been filed in time, he would have been entitled to a removal of
the suit on the showing made,
W~e cafflmm the order re zmu~ng the cauwe.

TUPPER & Another v. WISE.
IN ERROR TO THE C

CUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted January 28th, 1884.-Decided February 4th, 184.

Jurisfiction.
Distinct judgments in favor of or against distinct parties, though in the same
record, cannot be joined to give this court jurisdiction.

Notion to dismiss, with which is united a motion to affirm.

TUPPER v. WISE.
Opinion of the Court.

-Mr.Henry Beard and _Mr. CharlesE. Am es for the motion.
No brief filed contra.
Mm CHIEF JUSTICE W =& delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a suit brought by Wise, the defendant in error,
against the plaintiffs in error and others to recover the possession of sec. 21, T. 3 N., R. 8E., Mount Diablo base and meridian,
containing 640 acres of land. Tupper answered, denying that
he was in possession of any part of the section except the N. E.
,and to that he set up a pre-emption claim and settlement.'
Lenfesty made the same answer and claim as to the S. E. 1.
There was no joint ownership or joint possession. Each defendant claimed a separate and distinct interest in a separate
and distinct part of the land. The jury found that the "defendants were each severally in the wrongful possession of the
lands respectively described in their several answers and no
others, and that the value of the rents and profits of the lands
so held and possessed by defendant Tupper is $100, of the land
so held and possessed by defendant Lenfesty $100, and that the
value of each one of said tracts of 160 acres is $3,000 and of
the two of them $6,000." Judgment was thereupon rendered
against Tupper for the possession of his tract and $100 damages, and against Lenfesty in the same way. Tupper and
Lenfesty then sued out this writ of error, which Wise moves to
dismiss, because the claims of the several plaintiffs in error are
separate and distinct, and the value of the. matter in dispute
with either of them does not exceed $5,000.
This motion is granted. The rule is well settled that distinct
judgments in favor of or against distinct parties, though in the
same record, cannot be joined to give this court jurisdiction.
The whole subject was fully considered at the last term in Ex
pardteBaltimore & Ohio Railroad Company, 106 U. S. 5; Farmers' Loan & Trust Oomjany v. W~aterman, id. 265 ; Adams
v. Crittenden, id. 576; Schwed v. Smith, id. 188. The stipulation as to the value of the property which is found in the record
cannot alter the case, for it states that the aggregate value of

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

the two quarter sections exceeds $5,100, and the verdict fixes
the value of each quarter at $3,000.
DiMi
.se.
Lynch & Another v. Bailey & Another. This, like the case
of TDeyper v. Wise, just decided, was a suit to recover the possession of a whole section of land. Each of the plaintiffs in error
was in possession of a separate quarter-section under a pre-emption
claim. Their defences were separate and distinct, and the recovery against each was for the land that be separately claimed and
occupied. The value of the recovery from either of the defendants does not exceed five thousand dollars, though the aggregate
against all is more.
The motion to dismiss is granted for the reasons stated in the
other case.

THE STATE, RUCKMAN Prosecutor, v. DEMAREST,
Collector.
f ERROR TO THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF NW JERSEY.
Submitted January10th, 188L-Decided February4th, 1834.

Error-Practice.
Grgsby v. Purcell, 9D U. S. 505, followed; holding that if the transcript is
not filed and the cause docketed during the term to which it is made returnable, or some sufficient excuse given for the delay, the writ of error or
appeal becomes inoperative, and the cause may be dismissed by the court
of its own motion or on motion of the defendant in error or the appellee.

Motion by a defendant in error to docket and dismiss a case.
XrM. _Pete'

V. Stagg for the mover.

delivered the opinionr of the court.
This is a motion by Cornelius N. Durie, the successor in
office of Demarest, the defendant in error, to docket and dismiss a case. From the motion papers it appears that Demarest,
as collector of the township, recovered a judgment against the
State, Ruckman prosecutor, in the Court of Errors and Appeals
MR. CHIEF JUsTICE WA r

