AITCHELL v. CLARK.
Syllabus.

could be suggested as a possible ground for the return of the
money; nor could there have been any mistake of fact which
would be recognized as a ground for relief even in equity, for
the fact suggested as having been misunderstood was declared
by the law.
Besides, the title to the property sold under judicial process
is not warranted by the party obtaining the judgment of the
court. Whatever title the law gives, the purchaser takes, no
more and no less; and he must govern himself accordingly.
Any different rule prevailing on this subject in Louisiana or any
other State by statute cannot change the position of the United
States with respect to judicial sales in proceedings instituted by
them.
Nor is this position at all affected by the doctrine that upon
the reversal of a judgment under which a sale has been had,
the purchaser is entitled to a return of his money. There has
been no reversal of the judgment inthe confiscation proceedings
against Conrad. On the contrary, it has been affirmed.

Judgrnznt affinmd.

MITCHELL & Another v. CLARK.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURL

Argmed December 14th, 17th, 1S83.-Decided March 3d, 1884.

Jurdiction-Limitations,Statute of.

When a defendant in a suit pending in a State court pleads a provision of the
State constitution as a defence, a judgment there overruling the plea presents no federal question to give jurisdiction to this court.

Congress has the constitutional power to prescribe the law of limitations for
suits which may by law be removed into the courts of the United States ;
and when Congress has exercised that power it is binding upon State courts
as well as uponFederal courts. A rn on v. Mu tphy, 109 U. S. 238, approved.
A suit by a lessor to recover of a lessee rents which, during the rebellion, by
order of the commanding general in the department where the property
was situated, had been paid to the military authorities and appropriated to
the use of the United States, is an action subject to the limitations prescribed
by the Act of March 3d, 1863, 12 Stat. 755, and May 11th, 1866,14 Stat. 46,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.
for the commencement of suits for seizures made during the rebellion by
virtue or under color of authority derived from or exercised under the
President or under any act of Congress. Harrison v. Xfyer, 92 U. S. 111,
cited and approved.
In a plea setting up the defence of the limitations prescribed by the statutes
of March 3d, 1863, 12 Stat. 75.5, and May 11th, 1856, 14 Stat. 46, it is not
necessary to set forth the language of the ordei of the commanding general.
This case distinguished from Bean v. Beckwil&, 18 Wall. 510.

This was a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Missouri.
The plaintiff below sued the plaintiffs in error for rent due
on a lease of two storehouses in St. Louis for the months of
August, September, and October, 1862, at the rate of $583.33
per month. The defendants answered with four pleas, as follows:
"And now come said defendants, by leave of court, for amended
answer to plaintiff's petition, admit the execution of said lease
and the occupancy of said premises under and by virtue of the
same as alleged in said petition; and defendants say that after the
making of said lease, to wit, on or about the first of May, A.D.
1861, certain evil-disposed and wicked persons in the State of
Missouri, and in other of the United States, did raise an insurrection and rebellion against the lawful government of the United
States, and did seek by force and arms to overthrow said government, and for this purpose did raise a large force of armed men,
and did incite and carry on a civil war with said government of
the United States.; that during all the year 1862, and for a long
time prior and subsequent thereto, civil war prevailed throughout
the State of Missouri, where said premises were located and where
defendants and plaintiff resided; that in order to suppress said
insurrection and rebellion and maintain the lawful authority of
the government of the United States said government was compelled to raise, and did raise, equip, and put into the field in said
State of Missouri, where said war was raging, a large army, and
did place said State of Missouri and the city of St. Louis, where
said premises were located and defendants resided, under military
law; and the said city and county of St. Louis were under military law, and under the military control of J. M. Schofield, a
Major-General of the Army of the United States, as the military
commander of the District of Missouri, which embraced the entire

MITCHEIL v. CLARK.
Statement of Facts.
State of Missouri aforesaid ; that by reason of said civil war the
courts of said State of Missouri were suspended and unable to
perform their ordinary functions and administer the law of the
land, except as they were protected and allowed to do so by the
said military authorities thus in control of said State ; that in
order to prosecute said civil war on behalf of the government of
the United States, and put down and suppress said insurrection
and rebellion, and overpower the insurgents and rebels and protect the loyal citizeqs of the said State of Missouri, it became and
was necessary for the military authorities in control of said State
of Missouri as aforesaid to take, seize, and appropriate to the
public use the private property of the citizens of Missouri ; and
the said military authorities who were in lawful command and
control in said State, by order of said Schofield, then the lawful
commanding general in said State, did seize and appropriate to
the public use in suppressing said rebellion the private property
of divers citizens of said State, and among other things did levy
upon, seize, and appropriate to such publio use the property,
credits, and effects of said plaintiff, especially the rents due and
owing from defendants under and by virtue of said lease of defendants in their hands for said months of August, September,
and October, 1862 ; and the said defendants were compelled by
the overpowering military force then in lawful control of said
State to pay, and did pay long before the commencement of this
suit, to -wit,on or about the 24th day of November, 1862, the said
rents for said months of Aungust, September, and October, 1862,
and every part thereof, to said military authorities, for and on
account and as the property and effects of said plaintiff so seized
and appropriated to the public use as aforesaid; that said seizure
and appropriation were necessary means for carrying on said war
for the suppression- of said insurrection and rebellion and for the
defence and protection of the loyal citizens of Missouri. Wherefore defendants say that plaintiff ought not to have or maintain
his aforesaid action against them, and they pray judgment, &c.
"1And for a further defence defendants say that the said rents
reserved in said lease and due and owing for said months of
August, September, and October, 1862, were seized in the hands of
defendants and appropriated as the property of plaintiff for public
use in the city of St. Louis, while said city was under military
law, under the authority, or color of authority, exercised by said

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.
General Schofield, who was then and there duly vested with the
military command of said city by the President of the United
States and under his authority, and said payment was made by
defendants for and on account of plaintiff, as aforesaid, under
said authority; and defendants plead and set up as a defence to
this action the act of Congress entitled 'An Act relating to habeas
corpus, and regulating judicial proceedings in certain cases, approved March 3d, 1863, and say that by reason thereof and of the
payment aforesaid plaintiff ought not to have and to maintain
this action, and they pray judgment, &c.
" And for a further defence defendants say that they paid the
said rent for and on account of said plaintiff in the manner and
for the purposes in their first plea hereinbefore stated, after the
first day of January, 1861, by and in pursuance of orders received
by them from the said General J. M. Schofield, who was vested
with military authority by the said government of the United
States to make said order and to seize and to apply to the public
use the said property and effects and credits of said plaintiff ; and
defendants plead in bar of said action the fourth section of article
eleven of the Constitution of the State of Missouri, and pray
judgment, &c.
" And for a further defence to said action defendants say that
the cause of action in plaintiff's petition alleged, if any such does
or ever did exist, arose out of certain acts done, that is to say, out
of or from an alleged failure or omission to pay the rent reserved
in said lease for the months of August, September, and October,
A. D. 1862, to the said plaintiff, and from a payment thereof made
for and on account of plaintiff by defendants to the provostmarshal of said district of Missouri, for the public use, under and
by virtue of the order and command of General J. M. Sch6field,
who was then in military command of the militaiy district of
Missouri, which embraced the State of Missouri ; that said payment was omitted to be paid to the plaintiff, and was in fact
made for and on account of the plaintiff, for the public use as
aforesaid, as a necessary means of carrying on the military operations of the government of the United States against the insurgents, who were then seeking to overthrow said government in
said State of Missouri, by virtue or under color of authority
derived from and exercised under the President of the United
States; and said cause of action, if any such there be or ever

MITCHELL v. CLARK.
Opinion of the Court.

was, arose more than two years before the commencement of this
action, and said action was commenced more than two years after
the passage of an act by the Congress of the United States entitled, ' An Act relating to habeas corpus, and regulating judicial
proceedings in certain cases,' approved March 3d, 1863.
"And defendants set up and plead the limitations contained in
said statute in bar of said actions and pray judgment."

To these defences the plaintiff demurred, and the demurrer
was sustained in the court of original jurisdiction, and in the

St. Louis Court of Appeals, as to the three first pleas and overruled as to the fourth. On appeal to the Supreme Court,
however, the demurrer was sustained as to all the pleas, and
judgment being rendered on that ruling for plaintiff in the
court below and affirmed in the Supreme Court, this writ of
error was sued out.
.A&. George P. Strong for appellants.
.Xir. George F. Edmund8 for appellee.
Ym. JusTIcE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
After reciting the facts in the foregoing language, he continued:
The first of these defences is intended. to assert the validity
of the military order by which defendants under compulsion of
that order paid the rent which as tenants of Clark they then
owed to him, into the military chest of General Schofield, and
that said order being lawful and valid is a full protection to
them and a bar to this action.
We shall not undertake to decide in this case whether General Schofield had such authority as would make that payment
a discharge of the debt or not.
The third plea, conceding that the order of General Schofield may not of itself be a sufficient defence to the action,
invokes the aid of the fourth section of article eleven of the
Constitution of the State of Missouri as making the facts set
out in the first plea a good defence.
The language of this section is as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
"No person shall be prosecuted in any civil action or criminal
proceeding for or on accouit of any act by him done, performed,
or executed after the first day of January, 1861, by virtue'of military authority vested in him by the government of the United
States or that of this State to do such act, or in pursuance of
orders received by him from any person vested with such authority; and if any action or proceeding shall heretofore have been or
shall hereafter be instituted against any person for the doing of
any such act, the defendant may plead this section in bar thereof."
This constitutional provision was adopted in 1865, and was
clearly intended to protect the military officers or those acting
under them from liability, civil or criminal, for acts done under
their orders. Whether it covers the present case or .not is not
a question within our province to decide. The plea is made in
a State court and sets up a defence under the State law, and
however much the party may be aggrieved by that court's decision he in that plea sets up an immunity under a State law
and not under the law of the United States. Of such matter
this court has no jurisdiction, and we consider it no further.
The second and fourth pleas both set up the act of March
3d, 1863, 12 Stat. 155, as a defence; the second plea relying
upon the fourth section of the act as a full defence to any suit
at all in such case as the present, and the fourth plea setting
up the specific defence of the statute of limitation found in the
7th section of that act.
The fourth section is as follows:
"That any order of the President, or under his authority, made
at any time during the existence of the present rebellion, shall be
a defence in all courts to any action or prosecution, civil or criminal, pending or to be commenced, for any search, seizure, arrest, or
imprisonment, made, done, or committed, or acts omitted to be
done under and by virtue of such order, or under color of any law
of Congress, and such defence may be made by special plea or
under the general issue."
And the seventh section declares:
"That no suit or prosecution, civil or criminal, shall be main-

MITCBELL v. CLARK.
Opinion of the Court.
tained for any arrest or imprisonment made, or other trespasses or
wrongs done or committed, or act oinitted to be done, at any time
during the present rebellion, by virtue or under color of any authority derived from or exercised by or under the President of
the United States, or by or under any act of Congress, unless the
same shall have been commenced within two years next after such
arrest, imprisonment, trespass, or wrong may have been done or
committed, or act may have been omitted to have been done ; PM-ovided, That in no case shall the limitation herein provided commence to run until the passage of this act, so that no party shall,
by virtue of this act, be debarred of his remedy by suit or prosecution until two years from and after the passage of this act."
The act of May 11th, 1866, to amend this act, 14 U. S. Stat.
46, by its first section declares that the benefit of this defence
shall extend to any acts done or omitted to be done during said
rebellion by any officer or perso, under and by virtue of any
order, written or verbal, general or &Pecial, issued by the President or Secretary of War, or by any military officer of the
United States holding command of the department, district or
place within which such acts . . . were done or omitted to
be done, either by the veron or officer to whom the order was
addressed, or for whom it was intended.
The act of 1863 also makes elaborate provision for the removal of this class of cases, including any act done under color
of authority derived from the President, from a State court into
a Federal court, which provision is also made more effectual by
the act of 1866.
It is not at all difficult to discover the purpose of all this legislation.
Throughout a large part of the theatre of the civil war the
officers of the army, as well as many civil officers, were engaged in the discharge of very delicate duties among a class of
people who, while asserting themselves to be citizens of the
United States, were intensely hostile to the government, and
were ready and anxious at all times, though professing to be
non-combatants, to render every aid in their power to those engaged in active efforts to overthrow the government and destroy
the Union.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Cour

For this state of things Congress had provided no adequate
legislation, no law by which the powers of these officers were so
enlarged as to enable them to deal with this class of persons
dwelling in the midst of those who were loyal to the government.
Some statutes were passed after delay of a general character,
but it was seen that many acts had probably been done by
these officers in defence of the life of the nation for which no
authority of law could be found, though the purpose was good
and the act a necessity.
For most of these acts there was constitutional power in
Congress to have authorized them if it had acted in the matter in advance. It is possible that in a few cases, for acts
performed in haste and in the presence of an overpowering
emergency, there was no constitutional power anywhere to
make them good.
But who was to determine this question? and for service so
rendered to the government by its own officers and by men
acting under the compulsory power of these officers could
Congress grant no relief?
That an act passed after the event, which in effect ratifies
what has been done, and declares that no suit shall be sustained
against the party acting under color of authority, is valid, so
far as Congress could have conferred such authority before,
admits of no reasonable doubt. These are ordinary acts of
indemnity passed by all governments when the occasion requires it.
In the legislation to which we have referred in the act of
1863, and the amendatory act of 1866, Congress seems to have
well considered this subject. By the fourth section of the act
of 1863 it undoubtedly intended to afford an absolute defence,
as far as it had power to do so, in this class of cases.
By sections five and six it was enacted that the person sued
for any of this class of acts, performed or omitted under orders
of officers of the government, even when there was only color
of authority, could, instead of having his case tried in a State
court, where both court and jury might be prejudiced against
him, remove his case into a court of the United States for trial

MITCHELL v. CLARK.
Opinion of the Court.

That this act is constitutional, so far as it authorizes this
removal, was settled in the case of The .MXayor v. Cooper, 6
Wall. 247.
The defendant, however, for some reason did not attempt to
remove this case into the Circuit Court of the United States,.
probably because the Supreme Court of the State had decided
in the case of the State v. Gatzweiler, 49 Mo. 17, that the
limitation clause of the act of Congress was valid and was
binding on the State court.
The third measure of relief which those statutes provided for
said case was this statute of limitations, found in the seventh
section of the act of 1863.
This limitation of the right of action, like the right of removal, did not depend by the teims of the statute on the validity of the authority set up by the party. In one case it is
obvious that that question must be inquired into after the removal. In the other, if the action had not been brought within
two years, it was immaterial; for the plaintiff could not recover, however void the authority under which defendant
acted.
Had Congress power to pass such a law? The suit being
one which, under the act of Congress, could be removed into
the courts of the United States, Congress could certainly prescribe for it the law of limitations for those courts. If for
such actions in those courts, why not in all courts? Otherwise
there would be two rules of limitation of actions in different
courts holding pleas of the same cause.
But there are other considerations which lead to the conclusion that Congress must have the right to prescribe the rule of
limitations for all courts in this class of cases.
The act complained of is done for the benefit of the government by one of its officers, or by his imperative orders, which
could not be resisted. If done hnder a necessity or a mistake,
the government should not see him suffer. In such a case as
the present, where the money collected went into the military
chest, and was either turned over to the treasury or used to
pay the military expenses of the United States, the govemment is bound in equity, if not legally, to repay the defendant,
vOL.

x.-41

OCTOBER TERMI, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

if judgment goes against him, what it received, with intetest
and costs. It has a right to say in such cases that the suit,
which is to establish this liability, must be brought within reasonable time in whatever court it is brought, and to determine
what is that reasonable time. The government which thus
exposes its officers and others, acting under its compulsory exercise of power, to be sued, while not denying redress for the
illegal exercise of such power, must have the authority to require that suits brought for such redress shall be commenced
within reasonable time.
The question in all such cases is one that arises under the
Constitution and laws of theUnited States, because the act questioned is one done or omitted under eolor of authority claimed
to be derived from the government, and, therefore, involves the
consideration whether such authority did in fact, or could
in law, exist. It is one, consequently, that falls within the
constitutional jurisdiction of the judicial power of the United
States. Hence it follows that Congress might vest that jurisdiction exclusively in the courts of the United States, and
might regulate all the incidents of suits brought in any jurisdiction authorized to entertain them.
It is upon this principle that the case of Arnson v. .2Iurpky,
109 U. S. 238, was decided. The question there was whether
the statute of limitations of the State or of Congress should
govern, the suit having been brought to recover for duties
illegally assessed. And though the action was one properly
brought originally in the State court, and which might have
been tried there, it was held that as the money collected by the
collector had been paid into the treasury, and the United
States was responsible for the judgment which might be recovered against him, and Congress having also modified the
right of action which plaintiff had at common law, the provisions of the act in regard to time of commencing the action
governed the case, and that they were necessarily exclusive.
The Supreme Court of Missouri in the case of Die State v.
Gatzweiler, 49 Mo. 17, held that the seventh section of the act
of 1863 is not only valid; but is binding on the State courts.
Quoting from the case of Clark v. .Dick, 1 Dillon, 8, it concurs

ITCHELL v. CLARK.
Opinion of the Court.

with the Circuit Court that if Congress has the right to determine in what courts such questions must be tried, it must
necessarily have the power to regulate the remedy, including
the right to prescribe the time within which the suit must be
brought. That court further cites from the same opinion with
approval, as follows:
"Nor is the objection sound that in such cases the action, if
tried in the State courts, will be subject to the laws of limitations
prescribed by the States, while in the federal courts a different
rule would prevail. For the act of Congress by its terms applies
to all cases of the character described in the statute, and we see
no reason to limit its application to the federal courts. If Congress has a right to legislate on this subject, it has the right to
make that legislation the law of all courts into which such a case
may come, and we think they have done this in the statute under
consideration."
That a similar statute in regard to suits by or against an
assignee in bankruptcy governs the State courts, see Jenkins v.
171e Bank, 106 U. S. 571, and Jenkins v. Lowenthal, 110 U. S.
222.
It is no answer to this to say that it interferes with the
validity of contracts, for no provision of the Constitution prohibits Congress from doing this, as it does the States; and
where the question of the Tower of Congress arises, as in the
legal tender cases, and in bankruptcy cases, it does not depend
upon the incidental effect of its exercise on contracts, but on
the existence of the power itself.
In regard to the States, which are expressly forbidden to
impair by legislation the obligation of contracts, it has been repeatedly held that a statute of. limitation which reduces
materially the time within which suit may be commenced,
though passed after the contract was made, is not void if a
reasonable time is left for the enforcement of the contract by
suit before the statute bars that right.
Such is the case before us, for the statute leaves two years
after its passage, and two years after cause of action accrued,
within which suit could be brought.

CTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

It is said that the plea does not bring the case within the
provisions of the act of Congress, because this is an action to
recover of the defendant the rents which are due from him to
the plaintiff on a contract in writing, and that the trespass
committed on the defendant by order of General Schofield is
no answer to plaintiff's right under the contract.
But we are of opinion that both the language and the spirit
of the statute embrace the present case.
The plea makes it plain that it was the purpose of the Schofield order to seize the debt due from defendant to plaintiff, to
confiscate it for military purposes. The sum enforced from
Mitchell was the precise sum due to Clark for those rents. It
was to answer Clark's obligation or default the order was made
and enforced against Mitchell. He could not help himself.
It could as well be said that the garnishee in attachment is
not protected when paying under the order of the court, because there was error in the proceeding against his creditor.
In all the confiscation of debts in the cases arising out of the
late rebellion the same thing was done by the courts that was
done here by the military power, namely, a debt due by a
debtor, who was present, was seized and paid over to the United
States. Can it be held that this was no proceeding against the
creditor ? It cannot be denied that such a procedure, if well
conducted, is a good defence. It was the purpose of this
statute to make it a defence here, though done without authority, if the creditor's right was not asserted by suit within two
years.
The language of the statute is, that no suit shall be maintained unless brought within two years, for any wrongs done
or committed or act omitted to be done, by virtue or under
color of authority, derived-from or exercised by, or under, the
President. The act done here was the payment, under summary confiscation, of the debt due Clark to the military officer.
The act omitted was the omission by Mitchell, during all
these years, under that order, to pay to Clark. The two years'
statute was intended to cover the act done by Mitchell in paying according to the order of Schofield, and the omission, in
refusing to pay to Clark.

MITCHELL v. CLARK
Opinion of the Court.

The case of Ha rison v. Xyers, 92 U. S. 111, was a case
where the rent due under a lease from an absconding malcontent, was seized by a military order. This court held that the
lessor could not afterward insist on the contract. His property
was seized, says the court, and the tenant was no longer responsible to him, who could no longer secure him possession,
and as the lessee was obliged to render obedience to paramount
authority, it was entirely competent for him to enter into a
new contract to protect his interest.
It is said, however, that the Supreme Court of Mfissouri held
the plea to be bad because it did not set -out a copy of the
order of General Schofield on which the defence is founded,
either in Iar verb or in substance, and -that this, not being a
question of federal law, is sufficient to sustain the judgment of.
that court.
But there are several sufficient answers to this:
1. The opinion of the Supreme Court, while mentioning this
objection enpassant,does not decide that it is of itself sufficient
to invalidate the plea.
2. It does proceed in a lengthy discussion of the plea on its
merits, and rests its judgment on the ground that Congress had
no power to pass the statute of limitations in question.
3. The question whether a plea sets up a -sufficient defence,
when the defence relied on arises under an act of Congress,
does present, and that necessarily, a question of federal law;
for the question is and must be, does the plea state facts which
under the act of Congress constitute a good defence?
4. In this particular matter Congress made eveil the manner
of pleading the defence a question of federal law by the provisions of the statutes on- this subject.
By section four of the act of 1863, 12 Stat. 756, it is enacted
that the defence which it affords may be made by special plea
or under the general issue; and by section one of the act of
1866, 14 Stat. 46, that the order which shall be a sufficient defence may be written or verbal, general or special.
These provisions furnish the rules by which the manner of
setting up the defence is to be governed, and they leave no
doubt in our mind that the liberality which they intended to

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court

prescribe in the matter requires that the present plea of the
statute of limitations, being good in substance, is sufficient in
form of statement.
If the order was verbal, if it was general, if it could be given
in evidence under the general issue, it is sufficiently set out in
this plea as an order of General Schofield, in command of that
military department, under which defendant was compelled to
pay to that officer's subordinate the rent he owed to plaintiff.
In the case of Ban v. Beckwith, 18 Wall. 510, the defendants did not rely upon the statute of limitations of 1863, but
pleaded as a special defence that one of them was a"provostmarshal, and the other acted under his orders; and that they
both acted under the authority and by the order of Abraham
Iincoi, President of the UzTited States. But whether there
was in that case a special oyder of the President to the provostma Shal, or whether he assumed to arrest and imprison the
plaintiff under some proclamation or general order, did not
appear by the plea, and as it was a case of arrest and imprisonment this court held that the authority of the defendants to
make it should be specifically set forth.
That is not the present case, for the defendant here did as
he was compelled to by others, and probably never saw the
order under which he was forced to pay the money, and has
not now within his control the order under which the officer
acted. ' He has, besides, given with sufficient clearness the sub#tance of General Schofield's order to enable plaintiff to deny
its existence, if he can, or to make any other reply appropriate
to the merits of the case, and if the order was verbal no better
statement of it can be exacted.
We concur in the opinion of the lower courts in Missouri
that the plea of the statute of limitations is a good plea and is
sufficiently set out; and for the error in sustaining the demurrer
to this plea
The judgment of the SVreme Court of Misouriisreversed,
and the case remanded to that court for fjrtherproceedings, -notinoneitent with his opinion.

MITCHELL v. CLARK.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

dissenting.
I cannot agree with my associates in the judgment in this
case.
I know of no law that was ever enacted in the United States,
which would justify a military officer in enforcing the payment
to him of a debt due from one loyal citizen to another loyal
citizen, neither being in the military service, or residing in a
State declared to be in insurrection, or in which the courts of
law were not open and in the peaceful exercise of their jurisdiction. Such a law, in my opinion-I say it with respect-would dishonor the statute-book of the United States; and that
which has never been enacted by legislative power can never
be rightly adjudged to exist by a judicial tribunal
The averment of the answer that the payment was enforced
as a means of carrying on military operations by the United
States, we know to be untrue. At that time the government
appropriated the requisite funds to prosecute the war, and our
legislation and history show that no plundering of loyal citizens
in loyal States, nor any forced contribution from them, was
ever ordered or sanctioned by public authority.
The enforced payment in question could, therefore, be no
defence to the claim of the plaintiff. And it is difficult to
understand how the act of Congress of March 3d, 1863, 12
Stat- '55, or the amendatory act of May 11, 1866, 14 Stat. 46,
fixing a limitation to actions against military officers for certain
acts done by them during the war, or against parties acting
under their direction, can be invoked in this case. The fourth
section of the act of March 3d, 1863, makes the order or
authority of the President a defence only to actions "for any
search, seizure, arrest, or imprisonment made, done, or committed, or acts omitted to be done, under and by virtue of such.
order or under color of any law of Congress." It has reference
to acts affecting the person or such property as is subject to
physical seizure. It does not apply to actions for breaches of
contract between citizens in loyal States, or to any questions
arising out of such contracts. Debts being intangible things,
were incapable of seizure in any proper sense of that term;
and the debtors were not discharged from liability because of
Mn. JUSTICE FIELD,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

an unlawful exaction from them of equivalent sums. What
was thus exacted could under no circumstances be regarded as
anything more than a forced loan. By no possible alchemy
could it be converted into the payment of their debt to another.
Its effect upon others was not a matter which concerned the
military officer. His object, according to the defendant's
theory, was to raise funds for military operations; if so the
relations of debtor tocreditor were not affected by his exactions from one of them. Williamn v. BJrufy, 96 U. S.1,76, 187.
The debt of the defendants to the plaintiff was not thereby
discharged; it is still owing. It can only be discharged when
paid to him or to others by his direction. Independently of
this consideration, the statute cannot be construed to give
protpction to any one in the commission of unlawful acts.
N~either the President nor Congress can confer immunity for
acts committed in violation of the rights of citizens. An army
in the enemy's country may do all things allowed by the rules
of civilized warfare, and its officers and soldiers will be responsible only to their own government. But in loyal States,
or in such parts as are not in insurrection, or declared to be so,
and in which the courts are open, the rights of citizens are just
as much under constitutional security and protection in time
of war as in time of peace. Because civil war was raging in
one part of the country the constitutional guaranties of the
rights of .person and property were not suspended where no
such war existed. We sometimes hear the opposite doctrine
advanced; but it has no warrant in the principles of the common law, or in the language of the Constitution. As I observed on a former occasion, our system of civil polity is not
such a rickety and ill-jointed structure that when one part is
disturbed the whole is thrown into confusion and jostled to its
foundation. The existence of insurrection and war in other
States than Missouri, or in parts of that State distant from St.
Louis, did not suspend the Constitution or any of its guaranties
in that city. No proclamation of the President had ever dedared Missouri to b.e in a siate of insurrection, and it is a matter
within our judicial knowledge that St. Louis, so far from being
the theatre of actual warfare, was a city where supplies were

=IITCHELL v. CLARK.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J

collected for military operations in other quarters, and where
the courts were in the undisturbed exercise of their jurisdiction.
It is true that where rebellion exists, and the public safety
requires it, the privilege of the writ of habeav cOarp may be
suspended, and to that extent one of the safeguards of the
right of personal liberty may be withdrawn, but this suspension
in no respect affects the claims of private citizens against each
other arising out of contracts between them, or the means of
their enforcement. The Constitution does not forbid, during
such suspension or by reason of it, the institution of suits for
such claims, or authorize Congress to forbid it.
Congress may piowide for indemnifying those who, in great
emergencies, acting under pressing necessities for the public,
invade private rights in support of the authority of the govern.
meat; but between acts of indemnity in such cases, and the
attempt to deprive the citizen of his right to compensation for
wrongs committed against him or his property, or to enforce
contract obligations, there is a wide difference, which cannot
be disregarded without a plain violation of the Constitution.
As the fourth section of the act of 1863 refers only to seizures, arrests and imprisonments committed, or acts omitted, by
order or authority of the President, or under color of an act of
Congress, it has no bearing upon actions for breaches of contract between citizens. The seventh section, fixing a limitation
to actions for such arrests,- imprisonment and other trespasses,
does not therefore apply to the case before us. And the amendatory act of 1866 only extends the benefit of the limitation
to actions for similar acts or omissions, when committed by a
person acting under the order of the President, or the Secretary of War, or of a military commander. It does not, any
more than the act of 1863, govern actions for breaches of contract between private parties. Could it be construed to embrace a case like the present, it would clearly be unconstitutional The right of a lessor to sue his lessees for breach of
contract, is in no way dependent upon any act or authority of
Congress. It is a matter purely of State concern, and Congress
can no more declare within what time he shall sue for his rent,
than it can prescribe the court in which the action shall be

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

brought, or the form of the proceedings by which it shall be
conducted. Its power to fix a limitation to actions can apply
only to such as are in the first instance brought in the courts
of the United States, and to those wherein the right or interest
claimed depends upon a law of Congress. If such a law gives
the right or interest, claimed, it may prescribe the time in
which it shall be asserted, but not otherwise. It would hardly
be pretended that Congress can enlarge the time prescribed by
the State for bringing in her courts actions upon contracts;
and if it cannot enlarge, how can it limit the time? Indeed,
it cannot be held that Congress may interpose a limitation to
the right of enforcing in the courts of a State debts existing
between her citizens, unless it be also held that, as to all actions
in State tribunals, it can say when they may and when they
may not be brought. It will be long, I trust, before the States
will become thus helpless to enforce in their own tribunals
contracts between their own citizens.
,The argument of the court, in its opinion, is substantially
this :--an action in which a defence under an act of Congress
is set up may be removed from a State court to a federal
court; therefore Congress may prescribe the law of limitation
for it in the latter court; and if in that court, it may in all
courts, as otherwise there would be two rules of limitations of
actions in different courts holding pleas of the same cause. It
is easy to see that this mode of reasoning would necessarily
lead to the conclusion that Congress may prescribe the limitation to all actions in State courts between citizens, because
actions commenced there may be removed to a federal court
when they are between citizens of different States; and, on the
assumption of the argument, 'Congress may prescribe the law
of limitation for such cases in the federal court; and if in that
court, it may, says the opinion, in all courts, as otherwise there
would be two rules of limitations of actions upon the same
causes in different courts, one if the action remain in the State
court and another if it be removed to the federal court. The
length to which the ariu~ent leads proves the error of the
assumption on which it is founded. The true doctrine is the
reverse of this; the limitation of actions in the State courts for

EX PARTE YARBROUGH.
Syllabus.

the enforcement of rights which are not -dependent upon acts
of Congress or upon the Constitution, is a matter purely of
State regulation, which the federal courts must follow when
such actions are transferred to them. The object of the Constitution in extending the judicial power of the United States
to controversies between citizens of different States, was to
avoid, what was at the time of its adoption apprehended, the
existence of State attachments and State prejudices, which
might injuriously affect the administration of justice in the
State courts against non-residents. To carry out this purpose
the Judiciary Act provides for the removal to a Federal court
of actions commenced in a State court involving such controversies. It has no other object; and the removal in no respect
affects the rights of the parties, either the claims on the one
hand or the defences on the other. Only the tribunal and, in
some respects, the modes of procedure are changed. The limitations prescribed by the State law govern in both tribunals.

EX PARTE YARBROUGH, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
Argued January 23d, 24th, 1884.-Decided March 3d, 1884.

Contitutina Law-Indictment-,Turisdiction.
This court has no general authority to review on error or appeal the judgments
of Circuit Courts in cases within their criminal jurisdiction.
When a prisoner is held under sentence of a court of the United States in a

matter wholly beyond the jurisdiction of that court, it is within the authority
of the Supreme Court, when the matter is properlybrought to its attention,
to inquire into it, and to discharge the prisoner if it be found that the matter was not within the jurisdiction of the court below.
Errors of law committed by a Circuit Court which passed sentence upon a
prisoner, cannot be inquired into in a proceeding on an application for
Wzbea corpus to test the jurisdiction of the court which passed sentence.

An indictment which charges in the first count that the defendants conspired
to intimidate A. B., a citizen of African descent, in the exercise of his right
to vote for a member of the Congress of the United States, and that in the
execution of that conspiracy they beat, bruised, wounded, and otherwise

