OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

The records of the County Court which were put in evidence
show affirmatively that all the justices were present and acting
at the adjourned and special terms, when the orders were made
directing the subscription to the stock and providing as to the
terms of the contract. The last order was made at a regular
term. Under these circumstances, it is certainly to be presumed,
in the absence of anything to the contrary, that the terms were
regularly called and held. It was, therefore, not error to admit
the records in evidence without proof 6f the order for the adjourned term, or the call for the special term. The fact that
the order of the 7th of August, 1871, is referred to in the
recitals of the bond as having been made on the 12th, is unimportant. Smith v. County of Clark, 54 Mo. 58.
The judgment is affirmwd.

UNITED STATES v. BRINDLE.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TEE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued January 18th, I884-Decided March 3d, 1834.

Of-Public fan.--lary-Statutes.
A receiver of public moneys for a district of public lands subject to sale where
the annual salaryis 22,500, is only entitled to retain from the militarybountyland fees received by him during his term of office sufficient, vith his commissions on cash sales of public lands, to make up his annual salary.
United States v. Babbit, 1 Black, 65, adhered to.
A receiver of moneys from the sale of public lands whose annual salary amounted
to $2,500, was also appointed agent for the sale of Indian trust lands under
the treaty of July 17th. 1854, with the Delaware Indians, 10 Stat. 1048 :
Hed, That he was entitled to 2ommilsions on the sales of Indian lands
made by him, although they increased his annual compensation to a greater
amount than $2,500.
18 of the Act of August 81st, 1852, 10 Stat. 100 [Rev. Stat. § 1763], which
provided that "no person hereafter who holds or shall hold any office under
the government of the United States, whose salary or annual compensation
shall amount to the sum of $2,500, shall receive compensation fordischarg.
ing the duties of any other office," did not forbid the allowance of extra

UNITED STATES v. BRINDILE
Opinion of the Court.
compensation to such an officer for the performance of duties not imposed
upon him by an office under the government of the United States. Con.
verse v. The United Sates, 21 How. 463, cited and approved to this extent.

The plaintiff in error as plaintiff below sued the defendant to
recover a balance claimed to be in his hands as receiver of
moneys from the sale of public lands in Kansas. The defendant answered, denying liability, and setting up a claim to commissions on the amount received by him from sales of public
lands, and also a claim to commissions on amounts received by
him from sales of Indian lands. The latter claim was set up on
sales made by him as agent under the treaty of July 17th,
1854, with the Delaware Indians, 10 Stat. 1048.
A profo l a judgment was entered below for the defendant.
The plaintiff below brought the cause here by writ of error.
Xr. A88istant Attw

y-GeneraZ Xau y for plaintiff in error.

X3. X. F. MarR (Mr. 1R. T. XerTick and X1. John H.
Sloane were with him), for defendant in error.
MIL. CHIEF TJuSiCE W irn delivered the opinion of the court.

Two general questions are presented by the special verdict in
this case:
1. Whether Brindle, the defendant in error, as receiver of
public moneys for the district of lands subject to sale at Lecompton, Kansas, is entitled to the military bounty-land fees
received by him during his term of office, over and above the
amount required, with his commissions on cash sales of public
lands, to make up his annual salary of $2,500 per year; and,
2. Whether he is entitled to commissions on sales of Indian
trust lands in addition to his compensation as iuch receiver of
public moneys.
The first of these questions is answered in the negative on
the authority of United States v. Babbit, 1 Black, 55, decided
in 1861, and reaffirmed in 1877. 95 U. S. 335. The rule settled in that case ought not to be disturbed at this late day.
The 'facts on which the claim for commissions on sales of
Indian trust lands depend are these:
On the 17th of July, 1854, a treaty was concluded with the
voL. cx-44

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

Delaware tribe of Indians, 10 Stat. 1048, the material parts of
which are as follows:
"Art. 1. The Delaware tribe of Indians hereby cede, relinquish,
and quit-claim to the United States all their right, title, and
interest in and to their country," describing it, and also their
right, title, and interest in what was then known as "the outlet."
"Art. 2. The United States hereby agree to have the ceded
country (excepting the said ' outlet'), surveyed, as soon as it can
be conveniently done, in the same manner that the public lands
are surveyed, such survey to be commenced and prosecuted as the
President of the United States may deem best. And the said
President will, so soon as the whole or any portion of said lands
are surveyed, proceed to offer such surveyed lands for sale, at
public auction, in such quantities as he may deem proper, being
governed in all respects, in conducting such sales, by the laws of
the United States respecting the sales of public lands; and such
of the lands as may not be sold at the public sales, shall thereafter
be subject to private entry, in the same manner that private
entries are made of United States lands ; and any, or all, of such
lands as remain unsold after being three years subject to private
entry, at the minimum government price, may, by act of Congress, be graduated and reduced in price, until all said lands are
sold; regard being had in said graduation and reduction to the
interests of the Delawares, and also to the speedy settlement of
the country.
"Art. 3. The United States agree to pay to the Delaware tribe
of Indians the sum of ten thousand dollars; and, in consideration
thereof, the Delaware tribe of Indians. hereby cede, release, and
quit-claim to the United States, the said tract of country hereinbefore described as the t outlet.' And as a further and full
compensation for the cession made by the first article, the United
States agree to pay to said tribe all the moneys received from the
sale of the lands provided to be surveyed in the preceding article,
after deducting therefrom the cost of surveying, managing, and
selling the same."

Another article provided for the permanent investment of
such of the proceeds as were not required for the present

UNITED STATES v. BRINDLE.
Opinion of the Court.

wants of the Indians, and for the disposition of the interest on
the investments.
On the 10th of August, in the same year, the Kaskaskias
and Peorias, and certain tribes of the Piankeshaw and Wea
Indians, ceded certain of their lands to the United States by a
treaty the same in its general provisions as that of the Delawares.

10 Stat. 1082.

§ 5 of the act of March 3d, 1855, c. 204, 10 Stat. 100,
passed after these treaties were concluded, is as follows:
"That to enable the President of the United States to carry
out,.in good faith, the recent treaties with the . . . Dela-wares . . . and the united tribes of Kaskaskias and Peorias,
Piankeshaws and Weas, . . . there shall be, and hereby is,

appropriated, the sum of twenty thousand dollars, in addition to
the appropriations heretofore made, for the execution of the surveys required by said treaties; and where the net proceeds of the

lands ceded by either of said treaties are required to be paid over
to the Indians, the President shall cause said lands, or such parts
thereof as he may deem proper, to be classified and valued, and
when such classification and valuation have been made to his sat-

isfaction, he shall cause said lands to be offered at public sale, by
legal subdivisions or town lots, at such times and places, and in
such manner and quantity, as to him shall appear proper and necessary to carry out faithfully the" stipulations in said treaties ;
and said lands shall not be sold at private sale for a less price
than that fixed by the valuation aforesaid, nor shall any land be
sold at a less price than .one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre,
for three years, and thereafter as may be directed by law pursuant to the treaty."
By an act of July 9th, 1832, c. 174, 4 Stat. 564, as afterwards amended, and now § 463 of the Revised Statutes, the
Commissioner of Indian Affairs, under the direction of the
Secret y of the Interior, and agreeably to such regulations as
the President Tnay prescribe, has the management of Indian
affair and of all matters arising out of Indian relations. The
same act (now § 462 Rev. Stat.) also provides that all accounts and vouchers for claims and disbursements connected

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

with Indian affairs shall be transmitted to the commissioner
for administrative examination, and by him passed to the
proper accounting officer of the Treasury Department for settlement. The Second Auditor of the Treasury is charged by
law with the duty of receiving and examining all accounts
relating to Indian affairs and transmitting them to the second
comptroller for his decision thereon. Rev. Stat., § 277, subdivision second.
There must be appointed a register of the land office and a
receiver of public moneys for each land district established by
law, to reside at the place where the land office to which he is
appointed is kept. Rev. Stat., §§ 2234, 2235, re-enacting other
statutes to the same effect.
The Commissioner of the General Land Office has power to
audit and settle all public accounts relating to the public lands,
and to transmit the accounts and vouchers to the First Comptroller of the Treasury for his examination and decision thereon.
Rev. Stat., § 456.
§ 18 of the act of August 31, 1852, "makdng appropriations
for the civil and diplomatic expenses of the government," c. 108
10 Stat. 100i is as follows:
"1No person hereafter who holds or shall hold, any office under
the government of the United States, whose salary or annual
compensation shall amount to the sum of two thousand five hundred dollars, shall receive compensation for discharging the duties
of any other office."
On the 24th of October, 1856, Brindle, the defendant in
error, "was duly appointed special receiver and superintendent
to assist the special commissioner to dispose of the Delaware
Indian trust lands at Fort Leavenworth, in the Teritory of
Kansas, under the treaty -with the Delaware tribe of Indians."
On the 18th of February, 1857, he was appointed and cominmissioned for four years as receiver of public moneys for the district of lands subject to sale at Lecompton, Kansas, and on the
15th of May, 1857, he was' duly appointed as special receiver
and superintendent to assist the special commissioner to dispose
of the trust lands of the Kaskaskia, and ]Peoria, Piankeshaw

UNITED STATES v. BRINDLE.
Opinion of the Court.

and WVea Indian confederated tribes of Indians at Paoli, Kansas Territory.
These Indian trust lands were never public lands of the
United States, and were never subject to sale at the Lecompton
land office. The cessions to the United States were in trust, to
survey, manage and sell the lands and pay the net proceeds to
or invest them for the Indians. There was never a time that
the United States occupied any other position under the cessions than that of trustees, with power to sell for the benefit
of the Indians. In equity, under the operation of the treaties,
the Indians continued, until sales were made, the beneficial
owners of all their country ceded in trust. Of this we have
no doubt. The treaties are full of evidence to that effect. It
is unnecessary to state it in detail
It follows that it was never any part of the official duty of
Brindle, as receiver of public moneys at the Lecompton land
office, to sell the trust lands or receive the payments therefor.
His duties in connection with that office were to receive and
account for moneys paid for public lands, that is to say, the
public moneys of the United States derived from the sales of
public lands. The moneys paid for the Indian lands were
trust moneys, not public moneys. They were at all times in
equity the moneys of the Indians, subject only to the expenses
incurred by the United States for surveying, managing, and
selling the lands.
When, therefore, Brindle was appointed special receiver and
superintendent, to assist the special commissioner in disposing
of the trust lands, he was employed to render a service in no
way connected with the office he held. He was not appointed
to any office known to the law. No new duty was imposed on
him as receiver of the land office. The President was, both by
the treaties and the act of 1855, charged with.the duty of
selling the lands, and under his instructions Brindle was employed to assist in that work. By express provisions in the
treaties the expenses incurred by the United States in making
the sales were to be paid from the proceeds. This clearly
implied the payment of a reasonable compensation for the
services of those employed to carry the trust into effect.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Cour'.

..n Converse v. United States, 21 How. 463, it wa§ decided
that provisions in appropriation acts, like section 18 of the act
of August 31st, 1852, prohibiting an officer from receiving more
than one salary, could not by "fair interpretation be held to
embrace an employment which has no affinity or connection,
either in its character or by law or usage, with the line of his
official duty, and where the service to be performed is of a different character and for a ,different place, and the amount of
compensation regulated by law." P. 471. In the present case
the employment was for a special service in connection with a
special trust assumed by the United States for the benefit of
certain Indian tribes, in which express provisions were made
for the payment of expenses. In legal effect, the appointment
was to an agency for the sale of lands for the Indians, with an
implied understanding that a reasonable compensation-would
be paid for the services rendered. So far as anything appears
in the record, the appointment was not made because Brindle
was receiver of the land office. The duties to be performed
were of a different character and at a different place from those
of the land office, and while the exact amount of compensation
for this service was not fixed, it was clearly to be iferred that
such compensation as the law implies where labor is performed
by one at the request of another, that is to say, a reasonable
compensation, would be paid. This case comes, therefore,
within the rule in Converse v. United States, and Brindle is not
excluded by the act of 1852 from demanding compensation for
this service by reason of his being receiver of the land office.
What we have already said disposes of one of the incidental
questions presented by the verdict, to wit, whether the first or
second Comptroller of the Treasury was the proper officer
under the law to state the accounts of Brindle as special receiver, &c. As the lands were Indian lands and the accounts
related to and were connected with Indian affairs, the law required them to be transmitted to the Commissioner of Indian
Affairs, to be passed by him to the second auditor, and by him
to the second comptroller for examination and certificate of the
balances arising thereon. This disposes of all the questions
presented in the argument.

RICE v. SIOUX CITY & ST. PAUL R.R. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

It follows that the judgment in favor of Brindle for
$50,979.19 was erroneous, and that it should have been for
$14,541.78, according to the alternative finding marked G in
the special verdict.
The judgment is therefore reversed, and the cause remanded
with instructions to enter another judgment in favor of
the defendant in error in accordance with the ,funding G ;
that is to say, for $14,511.78, as of June

lath, 1879, the

date of the verdict, thejudgment to draw interestfrom that
date.

RICE v. SIOUX CITY & ST. PAUL RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF

dINNESOTA.

Submited Tanuary 14th, 1884.-Deld.d March 3d,1884.

Paadljc Land8-Stalutes.
Claimants against the government under legislative grants of public land must

show a clear title, as gifts of public domain are never to be presumed.
The grant of swamp lands to each of the States of the Union by the act of
September 28th, 1850, 9 Stat. 519, did not confer a similar grant upon the
Territories; and the subsequent admission of a Territory.as a State under
an act which provided that all laws of the United States not locally inapplicable should have the same force and effect within that State as in other
States of the Union did not work a grant of swamp lands under the act
of 1850.

.Mf. John B. Sanhorn for appellant.
.r.

. C. Palmerfor appellee.

MR. CmxvF JvSTCE WIrE delivered the opinion of the court.
This case briefly stated is as follows:
On the 28th of September, 1850, what is now known as the
swamp-land act, c. 8, 9 Stat. 519, was passed by Congress. By
sections 1, 2, and 3 swamp lands were defined and a special

