OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

out of their own means, which they did by purchasing grain.
for delivery at the market price, or paying the difference
between that and the contract price. The custom proved was
offered to show this performance and consequent loss; and in
doing so it disclosed that the brokers did not perform the original
contracts of sale actually made, but delivered equal quantities
of grain, or its market value, in fulfilment of contracts of purchase made by them for others, and which, by the process of
mutual exchange authorized by this custom, had come into their
hands for that purpose. This exchang? and*substitution, and
payment of differences to effect it, working as it does a complete change in the nature of the seller's rights and obligations,
cannot be made without his assent, and that assent can be implied only from knowledge of the custom which it is claimed
authorizes it.
The Circuit Court therefore erred in permitting proof of this
custom, without evidence that the defendant below had knowledge of it, and in not instructing the jury to disregard it, if
they were satisfied from the evidence that such knowledge had
not been satisfactorily shown.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore reversed, with
directions to grant a new trial, and
Bt is 8o ordered.

HURTADO v. PEOPLE OF CALIFOR IA.
N ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF CAIFORHIA.
Argued January 22d, 23d, 1884.-Deciled March 3d, 1884.

Constitutional Law.
1. The words "due process of law " in the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States do not necessarily require an indictment
by a grand jury in a prosecution by a State for murder.
2. The Constitution of California authorizes prosecutions for felonies by information, after examination and commitment by a magistrate, without
indictment by a grand jury, in the discretion of the legislature. The
Penal Code of the State makes provision for an examination by a magistrate, in the presence of the accused, who is entitl.d to the aid of counsel

HURTADO v. CALIFORNIA.
Statement of Facts.
and the right of cross-examination of witnesses, whose testimony Is to be
reduced to writing, and upon a certificate thereon by the magistrate that
a described offence has been committed, and that there is sufficient cause
to believe the accused guilty thereof, and an order holding him to answer
thereto, requires an information to be filed against the accused in the
Superior Court of the county in which the offence is triable, in the form
of an indictment for the same offence: Held, That a conviction upon such
an information for murder in the first degree and a sentence of death
thereon are not illegal by virtue of that clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which prohibits the States
from depriving any person of life, liberty or property without due proc.
ess of law.

The Constitution of the State of California, adopted in 1879,
in article I., section 8, provides as follows:
"Offences heretofore required to be prosecuted by indictment
shall be prosecuted by information, after examination and commitment by a magistrate, or by indictment, with or without such
examination and commitment, as may be prescribed by law. A
grand jury shall be drawn and summoned at least once a year in
each county."

Various provisions of the Penal Code regulate proceedings
before the examining and committing magistrate in cases of
persons arrested and brought before him upon charges of
having committed public offences. These require, among other
things, that the testimony of the witnesses shall be reduced to
writing in the form of depositions ; and section 872 declares
that if it appears from the examination that a public offence
las been committed, and there is sufficient cause to believe the
defendant guilty thereof, the magistrate must indorse on the
depositions an order, signed by him, to that effect, describing
the general nature of the offence committed, and ordering that
the defendant be held to answer thereto. . Section 809 of the
Penal Code is as follows:
"1When a defendant has been examined and committed, as provided in section 872 of this Code, it shallbe the duty of the district
attorney, within thirty days thereafter, to file in the Superior
Court of the county in which the offence is triable, an information
charging the defendant with such offence. The information shall

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

be in the name of the people of the State of California, and subscribed by the district attorney, and shall be in form like an indictment for the same offence."
In pursuance of the foregoing provision of the Constitution,
and of the several sections of the Penal Code of California, the
district attorney of Sacramento County, on the 20th day of
February, .1882, made and filed an information against the
plaintiff in error, charging him with the crime of murder in
the killing of one Jose Antonio Stuardo. Upon this information, and without any previous investigation of -the cause by
any grand jury, the plaintiff in error was arraigned on the 22d
day of March, 1882, and pleaded not guilty. A trial of the
issue was thereafter had, and on May 7th, 1882, the jury rendered its verdict, in which it found the plaintiff in error guilty
of murder in the first degree.
On the 5th day of June, 1882, the Superior Court of Sacramento County, in which the plaintiff in error had been tried,
rendered its judgment upon said verdict, that the said Joseph
Hurtado, plaintiff in error, be punished by the infliction of
death, and the day of his execution was fixed for the 20th day
of July, 1882.
From this judgment an appeal was taken, and the Supreme
Court of the State of California affirmed the judgment.
On the 6th day of July, 1883, the Superior Court of said
county of Sacramento ordered that the plaintiff in error be in
court on the 11th day of July, 1883, in order that a day for the
execution of the judgment in said cause should be fixed. In
pursuance of said order, plaintiff in error, with his counsel,
appeared at the bar of the court, and thereupon the judge asked
him if he had any. legal reason to urge why said judgment
should not be executed, and why an order should not then be
made fixing the day for the execution of the same.
Thereupon the plaintiff in error, by his counsel, objected to
the execution of said judgment and to any order which the
court might make fixing a day for the execution of the same,
upon the grounds:
"7th. That it appeared upon the face of the judgment that the

HURTADO v. CALIFORNIA.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff in error had never been legally, or otherwise, indicted or
presented by any grand jury, and that he was proceeded against
by information made and filed by the district attorney of the
county of Sacramento, after examination and commitment by a
magistrate of the said county.
"8th. TIat the said proceedings, as well as the laws and Constitution of California, attempting to authorize them, and the
alleged verdict of the jury, and judgment of the said Superior
Court of said county of Sacramento, were in conflict with and prohibited by the Fifth and Fourteenth Articles of Amendment of
the Constitution of the United States, and that they were therefore void.
"9th. That th~e said plaintiff in error had been held to answer
for the said crime of murder by the district attorney of the said
county of Sacramento, upon an information filed by him, and hadbeen tried and illegally found guilty of the said crime, without
any presentment or indictment of any grand or other jury, and
that the judgment rendered upon the alleged verdict of the jury
in such case Wfas and is void, and if executed would deprive the
plaintiff in error of his life or liberty without due process of law."
Thereupon the court overruled the said objections, and fixed
the 30th day of August, 1883, as the time for the execution of
the sentence. From this latter judgment the plaintiff in error
appealed to the Supreme Court of the State.
On the 18th day of September, 1883, the Supreme Court of
the State affirmed the said judgment, to review which the
present writ of error was allowed and has been prosecuted.

)Lr. A. Z. Hart for plaintiff in error.
.&. .ToAn T. Cary for defendant in error.
1

uif.
JUsTIC

:&Tmrws delivered the opinion of the court.

After reciting the facts in the foregoing language, he continued:
It is claimed on behalf of the prisoner that the conviction
and sentence are void, on the ground that they are repugnant
of the
to that clause of the Fourteenth Article of Amendment
which is in these words:
Constitution of the United States

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
"Nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or
property without due process of law."
The proposition of law we are asked to affirm is that an indictment or presentment by a grand jury, as known to the
common law of England, is essential to that "due process of
law," when applied to prosecutions forfelonies, which is secured
and guaranteed by this provision of the Constitution of the
United States, and which accordingly it is forbidden to the
States respectively to dispense with in the administration of
criminal law.
The question is one of grave and serious import, affecting
both private and public rights and interests of great magnitude,
and involves a consideration of what additional restrictions
upon the legislative policy of the States has been imposed by
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States.
The Supreme Court of California, in the judgment now
under review, followed its own previous decision in Kauloch v.
Sajerior Court, 56 Cal. 229, in which the question was deliberately adjudged. Its conclusion was there stated as

follows:
"This proceeding, as [it] is regulated by the Constitution and
laws of this State, is not opposed to any of the definitions given
of ihe phrases ' due process of law' and ; the law of the land;'
but, on the contrary, it is a proceeding strictly within such definitions, as much so in every respect as is a proceeding by indictment. It may be questioned whether the proceeding by indictment
secures to the accused any superior rights and privileges ; but
certainly a prosecution by information takes from him no immunity or protection to which he is entitled under the law."
And the opinion cites and relies upon a decision of the
Supreme Court of Wisconsin in the case of Rowan v. The State,
30 Wis. 129. In that case the court, speaking of the Fourteenth Amendment, says:
"But its design was not to confine the States to a particular
mode of procedure in judicial proceedings, and prohibit them from

HURTADO v. CALIFORNIA.
Opinion of the Court.
prosecuting for felonies by information instead of by indictment,
if they chose to abolish the grand jury system. And the words
' due process of law' in the amendment do not mean and have not
the effect to limit the powers of State governments to prosecutions for crime by indictment; but these words do mean law in its
regular course of administration, according to prescribed forms,
and in accordance with the general rules for the protection of individual rights. Administration and remedial proceedings must
change, from time to time, with the advancement of legal science
and the progress of society; and, if the people of the State find it
wise and expedient to abolish the grand jury and prosecute all
crimes by information, there is nothing in our State Constitution
and nothing in the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States which prevents them from doing so."
On the other hand, it is maintained on behalf of the plaintiff
in error that the phrase "due process of law" is equivalent to
"law of the land," as found in the 29th chapter of Magna
Charta; that by immemorial usage it has acquired a fixed,
definite, and technical meaning; that it refers to and includes,
not only the general principles of public liberty and private
right, which lie at the foundation of all free government, but
the very institutions which, venerable by time and custom,
have been tried by experience and found fit and necessary for
the preservation of those principles, and which, having been the
birthright and inheritance of every English subject, crossed theAtlantic with the colonists and were transplanted and established in the fundamental laws of the State; that, having been
originally introduced into the Constitution of the United States
as a limitation upon the powers of the government, brought
into being by that instrument, it has now been added as an
additional security to the individual against oppression by the
States themselves; that one of these institutions is that of the
grand jury, an indictment or presentment by which against the
accused in cases of alleged felonies is an essential part of due
process of law, in order that he may not be harassed or destroyed
by prosecutions founded only upon private malice or popular
fury.
This view is certainly supported by the authority of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the CourT

great name of Chief Justice Shaw and of the court in which he
bobins, 8 Gray, 329, decided that
presided, which, in Jones v.
the 12th article of the Bill of Rights of Massachusetts, a transcript of Magna Charta in this respect, made an indictment or
presentment of a grand jury essential to the validity of a conviction in cases of prosecutions for felonies. In delivering the
opinion of the court in that case, Merrick, J., alone dissenting,
the Chief Justice said:
"The right of individual citizens to be secure from an open and
public accusation of crime, and from the trouble, expense, and
anxiety of a public trial before a probable cause is established by
the presentment and indictment of a grand jury, in case of high
offences, is justly regarded as one of the securities to the innocent
against hasty, malicious, and oppressive public prosecutions, and
as one of the ancient immunities and privileges of English liberty."
"It having been stated," he continued, "by Lord Coke,
that by the ' law of the land' was intended a due course of proceeding according to the established rules and practice of the
courts of common law, it may, perhaps, be suggested that this
might include other modes of proceeding sanctioned by the
common law, the most familiar of which are, by informations of various kinds, by the officers of the crown in the name of
the King. But, in reply to this, it may be said that Lord Coke
himself explains his own meaning by saying ' the law of the land,'
as expressed in Magna Charta, was intended due process of law,
that is, by indictment or presentment of good and lawful men.
And further, it is stated, on the authority of Blackstone, that informations of every kind are confined by the constitutional law to
misdemeanors only. 4 B1. Com. 310."

Referring again to the passage from Lord Coke, he says, p.
343:
"This may not be conclusive, but, being a construction adopted
by a writer of high authority before the emigration of our ancestors, it has a tendency to show how it was then understood."

This passage from C6ke seems to be the chief foundation of
the opinion for which it is cited; but a critical examination and

HURTADO v. CALIFORNIA.
Opinion of the Court.

comparison of the text and context will show that it has been
misunderstood; that it was not intended to assert that an
indictment or presentment of a grand jury was essential to the
idea of due process of law in the prosecution and punishment
of crimes, but was only mentioned as an example and illustration of due process of law as it actually existed in cases in
which it was customarilkr used. In beginning his commentary
on this chapter of Magna Charta, 2 Inst. 46, Coke says:
"This chapter containeth nine several oranches :
"1. That no man be taken or imprisoned but per legem terars,
that is, by the common law, statute law, or custom of England;

for the words per legemr terrw, being towards the end of this chapter, doe referre to all the precedent matters in the chapter, etc.
"2. No man shall be disseised, etc., unless it be by the lawful
judgment, that is, verdict of his equals, (that is of men of his own
condition,) or by the law of the land, (that is to speak it once for
all,) by the due course andprocess ojf law."

He then proceeds to state that, 3, no man shall be outlawed,
unless according to the law of the land; 4, no man shall be
exiled, unless according to the law of the land; 5, no man shall
be in *anysort destroyed, "unlesse it be by the verdict of his
equals, or according to the law of the land;" 6, "no man shall
be condemned at the King's suite, either before the King in his
bench, where the pleas are coran ege, (and so are the words
nec super eunz, ibimus to be understood,) nor before any other
commissioner or judge whatsoever, and so are the words nec
super eum mittemus to be understood, but by the judgment of
his peers, that is, equals, or according to the law of the land."
Recurring to the first clause of the chapter, he continues:
"1. No man shall be taken (that is) restrained of liberty by petition or suggestion to the King or to his councill, unless it be by

indictment or presentment of good and lawfull men, where such
deeds be done. This branch and divers other parts of this act
have been notably explained by divers acts of Parliament, &c.,
quoted in the margent."
The reference is to various acts during the reign of Edward

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

III. And reaching again the words
continues:

"1nisi per

egem tece," he

"But by the law of the land. For the true sense and exposition
of these words see the statute of 37 E. 3, cap. 8, where the words,
by the law of the land, are rendered, without due proces of the law,
for there it is said, though it be contained in the Great Charter,
that no man be taken, imprisoned, or put out of his freehold without
proces of the law, that is, by indictment of good and lawfull men,
where such deeds be done in due manner, or by writ originall of
the common law. Without being brought in to answere but by
due proces of the common law. No man be put to answer without
presentment before justices, or thing of record, or by due proces,
or by writ originall, according to the old law of the land.
Wherein it is to be observed that this chapter is but declaratory
of the old law of England."
It is quite apparent from these extracts that the interpretation usually put upon Lord Coke's statement is too large, because

if an indictment or presentment by a grand jury is essential
to due process of law in all cases of imprisonment for crime, it
applies not only to felonies but to misdemeanors and petty

offences, and the conclusion would be inevitable that informatios as a substitute for indictments would be illegal in all cases.
It was indeed so argued by Sir Francis Winninton in -Yr.
P ynn's Case, 5 Mod. 459, from this very language of Mfaga
Charta, that all suits of the King must be by presentment or
indictment, and he cited Lord Coke as authority to that effect.
He attempted to show that informations had their origin in the
act of 11 Hen. 7, c. 3, enacted in 1494, known as the infamous
Empson and Dudley act, which was repealed by that of 1 Hen.
8, c. 6, in 1509. But the argument was overruled, Lord Holt
saying that to hold otherwise "would be a reflection on the
whole bar." Sir Bartholomew Shower, who was prevented
from arguing in support of the information, prints his intended
argument in his report of the case under the name of The Z]Tg

v. Berchd, 1 Show. 106, in which, with great thoroughness, he
arrays all the learning of the time on the subject.

He under-

takes to "evince that this method of prosecution is noways con-

HURTADO v. CALIFORNIA.
Opinion of the Court.

trariant to any fundamental rule of law, but agreeable to it."
He answers the objection that it is inconvenient and vexatious
to the subject by saying (p. 117):
"Here is no inconvenience to the people. Here is a trial per
pais, fair notice, liberty of pleading dilatories as well as bars.
Here is subpoenaand attachment, as much time for defence, charge,
&c., for the prosecutor makes up the record, &c.; then, in case of
malicious prosecution, the person who prosecutes is known by the
note to the coroner, according to the practice of the court."

He answers the argument drawn from ffagna Charta, and
says:
"That this method of prosecution no way contradicts that law,
for we say this isper legem terrw et per communem legem terre,
for otherwise there never had been so universal a practice of it in
all ages."

And referring to Coke's comment, that "no man shall be
taken," i. e., restrained of liberty by petition or suggestion to
the King or his Council unless it be by indictment or presentment, he says (p. 122):
"By petition or suggestion can never bb meant of the King's
Bench, for he himself had preferred several here ; that is meant
only of the the King alone, or in Council, or in the Star Chamber.
In the King's Bench the information is not a suggestion to the
King, but to the court upon record."

And he quotes 3 Inst. 136, where Coke modifies the statement by saying, "The King cannot put any to answer, but his
court must be apprized of the crime by indictment, presentment, or other matter of record," which, Shower says, includes
an information.
So it has been recently held that upon a coroner's inquisition
taken concerning the death of a man and a verdict of guilty of
murder or manslaughter is returned, the offender may be prosecuted and tried without the intervention of a grand jury. Beg.
v. Ingham, 5 B. & S. 257. And it was said by Buller, J., in

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

Rex v. Jolife, 4 T. R. 285-293, that if to an action for slander in charging the plaintiff with felony a justification is
pleaded which is found by the jury, that of itself amounts to
an indictment, as if it had been found by the grand jury, and is
sufficient to put the party thus accused on his trial.
The language of Lord Coke applies only to forfeitures of
life and liberty at the suit of the King, and hence appeals of
murder, which were prosecutions by private persons, were
never regarded as contrary to Magna Charta. On the contrary, the appeal of death was by Lord Holt "esteemed a noble
remedy and a badge of the rights and liberties of an Englishman." Rex v. Toler, 1 Ld. Raymond, 555-557; 12 Mod. 3T5;
Holt, 483. We are told that in the early part of the last century, in England, persons who had been acquitted on indictments for murder were often tried, convicted and executed on
-4T. An
appeals. Kendall on Trial by Battel (3d Ed.),
appeal of murder was brought in England as lately as 181-7,
but defeated by the appellant's declining to accept the wager
of battel. Ashford v. Thornton., 1 B. & Ald. 405. The English statutes concerning appeals of murder were in force in the
Provinces of Pennsylvania and Maryland. Report of Jidges,
3 Binn. 599-604; Kilty on Maryland Statutes, 141, 143, 158.
It is said that no such appeal was ever brought in Pennsylvania;
but in Maryland, in 1765, a negro was convicted and executed
upon such an appeal. Soper v. Tom, 1 Har. & McHen. 227.
See note to Paxto's Case, Quincy's Mass. Rep. 53, by Mr.
Justice Gray.
This view of the meaning of Lord Coke is the one taken by
Merrick, J., in his dissenting opinion in Jones v. -Robins, 8
Gray, 329, who states his conclusions in these words:
"It is the forensic trial, under a broad and general law, operating equally upon every member of our community, which the
words, ' by the law of the land,' in Mlagna Charta, and in every
subsequent declaration of rights which has borrowed its phraseology, make essential to the safety of the citizen, securing thereby
both his liberty and his property, by preventing the unlawful
arrest of his person or any unlawful interference with his estate."
See also State v. Starling, 15 Rich. (S. C.) Law, 120.

HURTADO v. CALIFORNIA.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Reeve, in 2 History of Eng. Law, 43, translates the
phrase, ni i er legaZe judicium arium taurum veZ er 7egem
"But by the judgment of his peers, or by some other legal
process or proceeding adapted by the law to the nature of the
case."

Chancellor Kent, 2 Com. 13, adopts this mode of constru-

ing the phrase.

Quoting the language of Magna Charta, and

referring to Lord Coke's comment upon it, he says:
"The better and larger definition of due process of law is that
it means law in its regular course of administration through
courts of justice."
This accords with what is said in Westervelt v. Gregg, 12
N. Y. 202, by Denio, J., p. 212:
11The provision was designed to protect the citizen against all

mere acts of power, whether flowing from the legislative or executive branches of the government."
The principal and true meaning of the phrase has never

been more tersely or accurately stated than by Mr. Justice
Johnson, in Bank of Co~umbiav. Okely, 4 Wheat. 235-244:
"As to the words from Magna Charta, incorporated into the

Constitution of Maryland, after volumes spoken and written with
a view to their exposition, the good sense of mankind has at last'
settled down to this : that they were intended to secure the individual from the arbitrary exercise of the powers of government,
unrestrained by the established principles of private right and
distributive justice."

And the conclusion rightly deduced is, as stated by Mr.
Cooley, Constitutional Limitations, 356:
"The principles, then, upon which the process is based, are to
determine whether it is ' due process' or not, and not any considerations of mere form. Administrative and remedial process may

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
be changed from time to time, but only with due regard to the
landmarks established for the protection of the citizen."
It is urged upon us, however, in argument, that the claim
made in behalf of the plaintiff in error is supported by the
decision of this court in X1trray's Lessee v. HToboken Land &
Improvement Company , 18 How. 272. There Mfr. Justice
Curtis, delivering the opinion of the court, after showing, p.
276, that due process of law must mean something more than
the actual existing law of the land, for otherwise it would be
no restraint upon legislative power, proceeds as follows:
"To what principle, then, are we to resort to ascertain whether
this process, endcted by Congress, is due process'? To this the
answer must be twofold. We must examine the Constitution
itself to see whether this process be in conflict with any of its
provisions. If not found to be so, we must look to those settled
usages and modes of proceeding existing in the common and
statute law of England before the emigration of our ancestors,
and which are shown not to have been unsuited to their civil and
political condition by having been acted on by them after the
settlement of this country."
This, it is argued, furnishes an indispensable test of what
constitutes "due process of law;" that any proceeding otherwise authorized by law, which is not thus sanctioned by usage,
or which supersedes and displaces one that is, cannot be regarded as due process of law.
But this inference is unwarranted. The real syllabus of the
passage quoted is, that a process of law, which is not otherwise
forbidden, must be taken to be due process of law, if it can show
the sanction of settled usage both in England and in this country; but it by no means follows that nothing else can be due
process of law. The point in the case cited arose in reference
to a summary proceeding,. questioned on that account, as not
due process of law. The answer was: however exceptional it
may be, as tested by definitions and principles of ordinary procedure; nevertheless, this, in substance, has been immemorially
the actua law of the land, and, therefore, is due process of law.

URTADO

,.

CALIFORNIA.

Opinion of the Court.

But to hold that such a characteristic is essential to due process
of law, would be to deny every quality of the law but its age,
and to render it incapable of progress or improvement. It
would be to stamp upon our jurisprudence the unchangeableness attributed to the laws of the Medes and Persians.
This would be all the more singular and surprising, in this
quick and active age, when we consider that, 'owing to the
progressive development of legal ideas and institutions in England, the words of Magna Charta stood for very different
things at the time of the separation of the American colonies
from what they represented originally. For at first the words
inisi .er legale judicium parium had no reference to a jury;
they applied only to the Tares regni, who were the constitutional judges in the Court of Exchequer and coram rege. Bac.
Abr. Juries, 7th Ed., Lond., note, Reeve, H. L. 41. And as
to the grand jury itself, we learn of its constitution and functions from the Assize of Clarendon, A. D. 1164 and that of
Northampton, A. D. 1176, Stubbs' Charters, 143-150.

By the

latter of these, which was a republication of the former, it was
provided, that "if any one is accused before the justices of our
Lord the King of murder, or theft, or robbery, or of harbouring persons committing those crimes, or of forgery or arson, by
the oath-of twelve knights of the hundred, or, if there are no
knights, by the oath of twelve free and lawful men, and by the
oath of four men from each township of the hundred, let him
go to the ordeal of water, and, if he fails, let him lose one foot.
And at Northampton it was added, for greater strictness of
justice (pro rigorejstitiw),that he shall lose his right hand at
the same time with his foot, and abjure the realm and exile
himself from the realm within forty days. And if he is acquitted by the ordeal, let him find pledges and remain in the
kingdom, unless he is accused of murder or other base felony
by the body of the country and the lawful knights of the
country; but if he is so accused as. aforesaid, although he is
acquitted by the ordeal of water, nevertheless he must leave
the kingdom in forty days and take his chattels with him,
subject to the rights of his lords, and he must abjure the kingdom at the mercy of our Lord the King."
voL. cx-84

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opini6n of the Court.
"The system thus established," says Mr. Justice Stephens, 1
I-ist. Crim. Law of England, 252, ", is simple. The body of the
country are the accusers. Their accusation is practically equivalent to a conviction, subject to the chance of a favorable termination of the ordeal by water. If the ordeal fails, the accused person loses his foot and his hand. If it succeeds, he is nevertheless
to be banished. Accusation,- therefore, was equivalent to banishment, at least."
When we add to this that the primitive grand jury heard no
witnesses in support of the truth of the charges to be preferred,
but presented upon their own knowledge, or indicted upon
common fame and general suspicion, we shall be ready to
acknowledge that it is better not to go too far back into antiquity for the best securities for our "ancient liberties." It is
more consonant to the true philosophy of our historical legal
institutions to say that the spirit of personal liberty and individual right, which they embodied, was preserved and developed by a progressive growth and wise adaptation to new circumstances and situations of the forms and processes found fit
to give, from time to time, new expression and greater effect
to modern ideas of self-government.
This flexibility and capacity for growth and adaptation is the
peculiar boast and excellence of the common law. Sir James
Mackintosh ascribes this principle of development to Magna
Charta itself. To use his own language:
,"It was a peculiar advantage that the consequences of its principles were, if we may so speak, only discovered slowly and
gradually. It gave out on each occasion only so much of the
spirit of liberty and reformation as the circumstances of succeeding generations required and as their character would safelybear.
For almost five centuries it was appealed to as the decisive authority on behalf of the people, though commonly so far only as the
necessities of each case demanded." 1 Hist. of England, 221.
The Constitution of the United States was ordained, it is
true, by descendants of Englishmen, who inherited the traditions of English law and history; but it was made for an un-

HURTADQ v. CALIFORNIA.
Opinion of the Cour.

defined and expanding future, and for a people gathered and to
be gathered from many nations and of many tongues. And
while we take just pride in the principles and institutions of the
common law, we are not to forget that in lands where other

systems of jurisprudence prevail, the ideas and processes of
civil justice are also not unknown. Due process of law, in
spite of the absolutism of continental governments, is not alien
to that code which survived the Roman Empire as the foundation of modern civilization in Europe, and which has given us
that fundamental maxim of distributive justice-suum cuigue
trikere. There is nothing in Magna Charta, rightly construed
as a broad charter of public right and law, which ought to exclude the best ideas of all systems and of every age; and as it
was the characteristic principle of the common law to draw its
inspiration from every fountain of justice, we are not to assume
that the sources of its supply have been exhausted. On the
contrary, we should expect that the new and various experiences of our own situation and system will mould and shape
it into new and not less useful forms.
The concessions of Magna Charta were wrung from the King
as guaranties against the oppressions and. usurpations of his
prerogative. It did not enter into the ininds of the barons to
provide security against their own body or in favorof the Commons by limiting the power of Parliament; so that bills of
attainder, ex post facto laws, laws declaring forfeitures of
estates, and other arbitrary acts of legislation which occur so
frequently in English history, were never regarded as inconsistent with the law of the land; for notwithstanding what was
attributed to Lord Coke in .Boan'sCase, 8 Rep. 115, 118 a,
the omnipotence of Parliament over the common law was.
absolute, even against common right and reason. The actual
and practical security for English liberty against legislative
tyranny was the power of a free public opinion represented hy
the Commons.
In this country written constitutions were deemed essential
to protect the rights and liberties of the people against the
encroachments of power delegated to their governments, and
the provisions of Magna Charta were incorporated into Bills of

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

Rights. They were limitations upon all the powers of government, legislative as well as executive and judicial.
It necessarily happened, therefore, that as these broad and
general maxims of liberty and justice held in our system a
different place and performed a different function from their
position and office in English constitutional history and law,
they would receive and justify a corresponding and more comprehensive interpretation. Applied in England only as guards
against executive usurpation. and tyranny, here they have
become bulwarks also against arbitrary legislation; but, in that
applcation, as it would be incongruous to measure and restrict
them by the ancient customary Englishliaw, they must be held
to guarantee not particular forms of procedure, but the very
substance of individual rights to life, liberty, and property.
Restraints that could be fastened upon executive authority
with precision and detail, might prove obstructive and injurious
when imposed on the just and necessary. discretion of legislative power; and, while in every instance, laws that violated
express and specific injunctions and prohibitions, might, without embarrassment, be judicially declared to be void, yet, any
general principle or maxim, founded on the essential nature of
law, as a just and reasonable expression of the public will and
of government, as instituted by popular- consent and for the
general good, can only be applied to cases coming clearly
within the scope bf its spirit and purpose, and not to legislative
provisions merely establishing forms and modes of attainment.
Such regulations, to adopt a sentence of Burke's, "may alter
the mode and application but have no power over the substance
of original justice." Tract on the Popery Laws, 6 Burke's
Works, ed. Little & Brown. 323.
Such is the often-repeated doctrine of this court. In .unn
v. .lhinoi&, 94 U. S. 113-134, the Chief Justice, delivering the
opinion of the court, said:
"A person has no property, no vested interest, in any rule of
the common law. That is only one of the forms of municipal
law, and is no more sacred than any other. Rights of property
which have been created by the common law cannot be taken

H1IRTADO v. CALIFORNIA.
Opinion of the Court.
away without due process; but the law itself, as arule of conduct,
may be changed at the will or even at the whim of the legislature,
unless prevented by constitutional limitations. Indeed, the great
office of statutes is to remedy defects in the common law as they
are developed, and to adapt it to the changes of time and circumstances."
And in

Valker v. Savind, 92 U. S. 90, the court said:

"A trial by jury in suits at common law pending in State
courts is not, therefore, a privilege or immunity of national citizenship which the States are forbidden by the Fourteenth Amendment to abridge. A State cannot deprive a person of his property
without due process of law; but this does not necessarily imply
that all trials in the State courts affecting the property of persons
must be by jury. This requirement of the Constitution is met if
the trial is had according to the settled course of judicial proceedings. Due process of law is process according to the law of
the land. This process in the States is regulated by the law of
State."
In Kennard v. Louioiana ex reZ. X£organ, 92 U. S. 480, the

question was whether a mode of trying the title to an office, in
which was no provision for a jury, was due process of law.
Its validity was affirmed. The Chief Justice, after reciting the
various steps in the proceeding, said:
"From this it appears that ample provision has been made for"
the trial of the contestation before a court of competent jurisdiction ; for bringing the party against whom the proceeding is had
before the court and notifying him of the case he is required to
meet; for giving him an opportunity to be heard in his defence ;
for the deliberation and judgment of the court ; for an appeal
from this judgment to the highest court of the State, and for
hearing and judgment there. A mere statement of the facts carries with it a complete answer to all the constitutional objections
urged against the validity of the act."
And lr. Justice Miller, in Davidon v. -ew Orleanm, 96 U.
S. 97-105, after showing the difficulty, if not the impossibility
of framing a definition of this constitutional phrase, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

should be "at once perspicuous, comprehensive, and satisfactory," and thence deducing the wisdom "in the ascertaining of
the intent and application of such an important phrase in the
Federal Constitution, by the gradual process of judicial inclusion and exclusion, as the cases presented for decision shall require," says, however, that:
"It is not possible to hold that a party has, without due process of law, been deprived of his property, when, as regards the
issues affecting it, he has by the laws of the State a fair trial
in a court of justice, according to the modes of proceeding applicable to such a case." See also .Blissouriv. Lewis, 101 U. S. 2231 ; .ExLparte Wall, 107 U. S. 288-290.

We are to construe this phrase in the Fourteenth Amendment by the usus loguendi of the Constitution itself. The same
words are contained in the Fifth Amendment. That article
makes specific and express provision for perpetuating the institution of the grand jury, so far as relates to prosecutions for
the more aggravated crimes under the laws of the United
States. It declares that :
"No person shall be held to answer for a capital or otherwise
infamous crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand
jury, except in cases arising in the land or naval forces, or in the
militia when in actual service in time of war or public danger;
nor shall any person be subject for the same offence to be twice
put in jeopardy of life or limb; nor shall he be compelled in any
criminal case to be witness against himself." [It then immediately adds] : "Nor be deprived of life, liberty, or property,
without due process of law."
According to a recognized canon of interpretation, especially
applicable to formal and solemn instruments 'of constitutional
law, we are forbidden to assume, without clear reason to the
contrary, that any part of this most important amendment is
superfluous. The natural and obvious inference is, that in the
sense of the Constitution, "due process of law" was not meant
or intended to include, ex vi termini, the institution and procedure of a grand jury in any case. The conclusion is equally

HURTADO v. CALIFORNIA.
Opinion of the Court.

irresistible, that when. the same phrase was employed in the
Fourteenth Amendment to restrain the action of the States, it
was used in the same sense and with no greater extent; and
that if in the adoption of that amendment it had been part of
its purpose to perpetuate the institution of the grand jury in all
the States, it would have embodied, as did the Fifth Amendment, express declarations to that effect. Due process of law
in the latter refers to that law of the land which derives its
authority from the legislative powers conferred upon Congress
by the Constitution of the United States, exercised within the
limits therein prescribed, and interpreted according to the principles of the common law. In the Fourteenth Amendment, by
parity of reason, it refers to that law of the land in each State,
which derives its authority from the inherent and reserved
powers of the State, exerted within the limits of those fundamental principles of liberty and justice which lie at the base of
all our civil and political institutions, and the greatest security
for which resides in the right of the people to make their own
laws, and alter them at their pleasure. *
"The Fourteenth Amendment" [as was said by Mr. Justice
Bradley in Mssouri v. -Lewis, 101 'U. S. 22-31] "does not profess
to secure to all persons in the United States the benefit of the
same laws and the same remedies. Great diversities in these respects may exist in two States separated only by an imaginary
line. On one side of this line there may be a right of trial by
jury, and on the other side no such right. Each State prescribes
its own modes of judicial proceeding."

But it is not to be supposed that these legislative powers are
absolute and despotic, and that the amendment prescribing
due process of law is too vague and indefinite to operate as a
practical restraint. It is not every act, legislative in form, that
is law. Law is something more than mere will exerted as an
act of power. It must be not a special rule for a particular
person or a particular case, but, in the language of Mr. Webster, in his familiar definition, ",the general law, a law which
hears before it condemns, which proceeds upon inquiry, and
renders judgment only after trial," so "that every citizen shall

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court

hold his life, liberty, property and immunities under the protection of the general rules which govern society," and thus
excluding, as not due process of law, acts of attainder, bills of
pains and penalties, acts of confiscation, acts reversing judgments, and acts directly transferring one man's estate to another, legislative judgments and decrees, and other similar
special, partial and arbitrary exertions of power under the
forms of legislation. Arbitrary power, enforcing its edicts to
the injury of the persons and property of its subjects, is not
law, whether manifested as the decree of a personal monarch
or of an impersonal multitude. And the limitations imposed
by our constitutional law upon the action of the governments,
both State and national, are essential to the preservation of
public and private rights, notwithstanding the representative
character of our political institutions. The enforcement of
these limitations by judicial process is the device of self-governing communities to protect the rights of individuals and
minorities, as well against the power of numbers, as against
the violence of public agents transcending the limits of lawful
authority, even when acting in the name and wielding the
force of the government.
The Supreme Court of Mississippi, in a well-considered case,
Brown v. levee Commissioners, 50 Miss. 468, speaking of the
meaning of the phrase "due process of law," says:
The principle does not demand that the laws existing at any
"'
point of time shall be irrepealable, or that any forms of remedies
shall necessarily continue. It refers to certain fundamental rights
which that system of jurisprudence, of which ours is a derivative,
has always recognized. If any of these are disregarded in the
proceedings by which a person is condemned to the loss of life,
liberty, or property, then the deprivation has not been by ' due
process of law."'
This court, speaking by Mr. Justice Miller, in .oan Association v. Tove&, 20 Wall. 655-662, said:
"It must be conceded that there are such rights in every free
government beyond the control of the State. A government

HURTADO v. CALIFORNIA.
Opinion of the Court.

which recognized no such rights, which held the lives, the liberty, and the property of its citizens subject at all times to the
absolute disposition and unlimited control of even the most democratic depository of power, is after all but a despotism. It is
true it is a despotism of the many, of the majority, if you choose
to call it so, but it is nevertheless a despotism. It may be doubted,
if a man is to hold all that he is accustomed to call his own, all
in which he has placed his happiness and the security of which
is essential to that happiness, under the unlimited dominion of
others, whether it is not wiser that this power should be exercised by one man than by many." I
It follows that any legal proceeding enforced by public authority, whether sanctioned by age and custom, or newly devised in the discretion of the legislative power, in furtherance
of the general public good, which regards and preserves these
principles of liberty and justice, must be held to be due process
of law. ,
The Constitution of Connecticut, adopted in 1818 and in
force when the Fourteenth Amendment took effect, requires
an indictment or presentment of a grand jury only in cases
where the punishment of the crime charged is death or imprisonment for life, and yet it also declares that no person shall
"be deprived of life, liberty, or property but by due course of
law." It falls short, therefore, of that measure of protection
which it is claimed is guaranteed by :Magna Charta to the
right of personal liberty; notwithstanding which it is no doubt
justly said in Swift's Digest, 1, that
,,This sacred and inestimable right, without which all others
are of little value, is enjoyed by the people of this State in as full
extent as in any country on the globe, and in as high a degree as
is consistent with the nature of civil government. No individual
or body of men has a discretionary or arbitrary power to commit
any person to prison ; no man can be restrained of his liberty, be
prevented from removing himself from place to place as he
chooses, be compelled to go to a place contrary to his inclination,
or be in any way imprisoned or confined, unless by virtue of the
express laws of the land."

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

Tried by these principles, we are unable to say that the substitution for a presentment or indictment by a grand jury of
the proceeding by information, after examination and commitment by a magistrate, certifying to the probable guilt of the
defendant, with the right on his part to the aid of counsel, and
to the cross-examination of the witnesses produced for the
prosecution, is not due process of law. It is, as we have seen,
an ancient proceeding at common law, which might include
every case of an offence of less grade than a felony, except
misprision of treason; and in every circumstance of its administration, as authorized by the statute of California, it carefully
considers and guards the substantial interest of the prisoner.
It is merely a preliminary proceeding, and can result in no
final judgment, except as the consequence of a regular judicial
trial, conducted precisely as in cases of indictments.
In reference to this mode of proceeding at the common law,
and which he says "is as ancient as the common law itself,"
Blackstone adds (I Com. 305):
"And as to those offences in which informations were allowed
as well as indictments, so long as they were confined to this high
and respectable jurisdiction, and were carried on in a legal and
regular course in His Majesty's Court of King's Bench, the subject
had no reason to complain. The same notice was given, the same
process was issued, the same pleas were allowed, the same trial
by jury was had, the same judgment was given by the same

judges, as if the prosecution had originally been by indictment."
For these reasons, finding no error therein, the judgment of
the Supreme Court of California is
Aftirmed.
dissenting.
The plaintiff in error, Joseph Hurtado, now under sentence
of death pronounced in one of the courts of California, brings
this writ of error upon the ground that the proceedings against
him are in violation of the Constitution of the United States.
The crime charged, and of which he was found guilty, is murder.
The prosecution against him is not based upon any presentment
or indictment of a grand jury, but upon an information filed
MR. JusTIoE HARLAw,

RRTADO v. CALIFORNIA.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

by the district attorney of the county in which the crime was
alleged to have been committed. His contention is that an
information for a capital offence is forbidden by that clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States which declares that no State shall "deprive any person
of life, liberty, or property without due process of law." As I
cannot agree that the State may, consistently with due process
of law, require a person to answer for a capital offence, except
upon the presentment or indictment of a grand jury, and as
human life is involved in the judgment rendered here, I do not
feel at liberty to withhold a statement of the reasons for my
dissent from the opinion of the court.
The phrase "due process of law" is not new in the constitutional history of this country or of England. It antedates
the establishment of our institutions. Those who had been
driven from the mother country by oppression and persecution
brought with them, as their inheritance, which no government
could rightfully impair or destroy, certain guaranties of the
rights of life and liberty, and property, which had long been
deemed fundamental in Anglo-Saxon institutions. In the
Congress of the Colonies held in New York in 1765, it was declared that the colonies were entitled to all the essential rights,
liberties, privileges, and immunities, confirmed by Magna,
Charta to the subjects of Gi-eat Britain. Hutch. Hist. Mas. Bay,
Appendix F. "It was under the consciousness," says Story,
"of the full possession of the rights, liberties and immunities of
British subjects, that the colonists in almost all the early legislation of their respective assemblies insisted upon a declaratory
act, acknowledging and confirming them." 1 Story Const.
§ 165. In his speech in the House of Lords, on the doctrine of
taxation without representation, Lord Chatham maintained
that the inhabitants of the colonies were entitled to all the
rights and the peculiar privileges of Englishmen; that they
were equally bound by the laws, and equally entitled to participate in the constitution of England. On the 14th of October,
1774, the delegates from the several Colonies and Plantations,
in Congress assembled, made a formal declaration of the rights
to which their people were entitled, by the immutable laws

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

of nature, the principles of the English Constitution, and
the several charters or compacts under which the colonial
governments were organized. Among other things, they declared that their ancestors who first settled the colonies were,
at the time of their immigration, "entitled to all the rights,
liberties, and immunities of free and natural born subjects within
the realm of England;" that "by such immigration they by no
means forfeited, surrendered, or lost any of those rights, but
that they were, and their descendants now are, entitled to the
exercise and enjoyment of all such of them as their local and
other circumstances entitle them to exercise and enjoy;" and
that "the respective colonists are entitled to the common law
of England, and more especially to the great and inestimable
privilege of being tried by their peers of the vicinage, according to the course of that law." 1 Journalof Congress, 27-8-9.
These declarations were subsequently emphasized in the
most imposing manner, when the doctrines of the common law
respecting the protection of the people in their lives, liberties
and property were incorporated into the earlier constitutions
of the original States. Massachusetts, in its Constitution of
1780, and New Hampshire in 1784, declared in the same language that "no subject shall be arrested, imprisoned, despoiled,
or deprived of his property, immunities, or privileges, put out
of the protection of the law, exiled, or deprived of his life,
liberty, or estate, but by the judgment of his peers or the law
of the land;" Maryland and Noith Carolina in 1776 and South
Carolina in 1778, that "no freeman of this State be taken or
imprisoned, or disseized of his freehold, liberties, or privileges,
outlawed, exiled, or in any manner destroyed or deprived of
his life, liberty, or property, but by the judgment of his peers
or the law of the land;" Virginia in 1776, that "no man be
deprived of his liberty except by the law of the land or the
judgment of his peers;" and Delaware, in 1792, that no person
"shall be deprived of life, liberty, or property, unless by the
judgment of his peers or the law of the land." In the ordinance of 1789 for the government of the Northwestern Territory, it was made one of the articles of compact' between the
original States and the people and States to be formed out of

KURTADO v. CALIFORNIA.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

that Territory-" to remain forever unalterable unless by common consent "-that "no man shall be deprived of his life,
liberty, or property, but by the judgment of his peers or the
law of the land." These fundamental doctrines were subsequently incorporated into the Constitution of the United Stafes.
The people were not content with the provision in section 2 of
article 3, that "1
the trial of all crimes, except in cases of impeachment, shall be by jury." They desired a fuller and
broader enunciation of the fundamental principles of freedom,
and therefore demanded that the guaranties of-the rights of
life, liberty, and property, which experience had proved to be
essential to the safety and security of the people, should be
placed beyond all danger of impairment or destruction by the
general government through legislation by Congress. They
perceived no reason why, in respect of those rights, the same
limitations should not be imposed upon the general government
that had been imposed upon the States by their own Constitutions. Hence the prompt adoption of the original amendments,
by the Fifth of which it is, among other things, provided that
"no person shall be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law." This language is similar to that of.
the clause of the Fourteenth Amendment now under examination. That similarity was not accidental, but evinces a purpose
to impose upon the States the same restrictions, in respect of
proceedings involving life, liberty and property, which had
been imposed upon the general government.
"Due process of law," within the meaning of the national
Constitution, does not import one thing with reference to the
powers of the States, and another with reference to the powers
of the general government. If particular proceedings con;ducted under the authority of the general government, and involving life, are prohibited, because not constituting that due
process of law required by the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, similar proceed!ngs, conducted
under the authority of a State, must be deemed illegal as not
being due process of law within the meaning of the Fourteenth
Amendment.* What, then, is the meaning of the words "due
process of law" in the latter amendment?

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, IU.

In seeking that meaning we are, fortunately, not left without
authoritative directions as to the source, and the only source, from
which the necessary information is to be obtained. In .AXur,
ray's Lessees v. Hobocen, dc., 18 How. 272, 276-7, it was said:
"The Constitution contains no description of those processes
which it was intended to allow or forbid. It does not .even
declare what principles are to be applied to ascertain whether
it be due process. It is manifest that it was not left to the
legislative power to enact any process whi~h might be devised.
The article is a restraint on the legislative as well as on the
executive and judicial powers of the government, and cannot
be so construed as to leave Congress free to make any process
'due process of law' by its mere will. To what principles are
we to resort to ascertain whether this process enacted by Congress is due process? To this the answer must be two-fold.
We must examine the Constitution itself to see whether this
process be in conflict with any of its provisions. If not found
to be so, we must look to those settled usages and modes ofpvroceeding exlsting in the common and statute law of England before the emigration of our ancestors, and which are shoun not
to have been unsuited to their civil and politicaZ condition by
having been acted on by them after the settlement of this country."
Magna Charta-upon which rested the rights, liberties and
immunities of our ancestors-was called, said Coke, "the Charter
of the Liberties of the Kingdom, upon great reason, because
liberos fait,it makes the people free." Hallam characterizes
the signing of it as the most important event in English history,
and declares that the instrument is still the keystone of English
liberty. "To have produced it," said Mackintosh, "to have
preserved it, to have matured it, constitute the immortal claim
of England upon the esteem of mankind." By that instrument
the King, representing the sovereignty of the nation, declared
that "no freeman shall be taken, or imprisoned, or be disseized
of his freehold, or liberties, or free customs, or be outlawed, or
exiled, or any otherwise destroyed ; nor will we [not] pass upon
him, nor condemn him, but bylawful judgment of his peers, or
by the law of the land."

HURTADO v. CALIFORNIA.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

"The words due ' process of law' were undoubtedly intended,"
said this court, in Mug-ray's Lessees v. Hobokn, &c., "to convey
the same meaning as the words 'by the law of the land' in
-31agna Marta." That the one is the equivalent of the other
was recognized in Davidson v. -New Orleans,96 U. S. 97. See
also 2 Kent, 13; 2 Story Const. § 1789; Cooley's Const. Lim.
353; Pomeroy's Const. Law, § 245; Greene v. Briggs, 1 Curtis,
325. Whether the phrase in our American constitutions,
national or State, be "law of the land" or "due process of law,"
it means in every case the same thing. Cooley's Const. Lim.
352.
Declining to follow counsel in their search for precedents in
England in support or in refutation of the proposition that the
common law permitted informations in certain classes of public
offences, and conceding that in some cases, such as .Ar. Pryan'8
Case, 5 Mod. 459, which was an information for a riot, tried
before Chief Justice Holt, the requirement of due process of
law was met by that mode of procedure, let us inquire-and no
other inquiry is at all pertinent-whether according to the
settled usages and modes of proceeding to which, this court has
said, reference must be had, an information for a capital offence
was, prior to the adoption of our Constitution, regarded as due
process of law.
Erskine, in his speech delivered in 1784, in defence of the
Dean of St. Asaph, said, in the presence of the judges of the
King's Bench: "If a man were to commit a capital offence in
the face of all the judges of England, their united authority
could not put him upon his trial; they could file no complaint
against him, even upon the records of the supreme criminal
court, but could only commit him for safe custody, which is
equally competent to every common justice of the peace. The
grand jury alone could arraign him, and in their discretion might
likewise finally discharge him, by throwing out the bill, with
the names of all your lordships as witnesses on the back of it.
If it be said that this exclusive power of the grand jury does
not extend to lesser misdemeanors, which may be prosecuted
by information, I answer, that for that reason it becomes
doubly necessary to preserve the power of the other jury which

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

is left." That this defender of popular rights against official
oppression was not in error when saying that no person could
be arraigned for a capital offence except upon the presentment
or indictment of a grand jury, is shown upon almost every page
of the common law.
Blackstone says: "But to find a bill there must be at least
twelve of the jury agree; for, so tender is the law of England
of the lives of the subjects, that no man can be convicted at
the suit of the King of any capital offence, unless by an unanimous voice of twenty-four of his equals and neighbors, that is,
by twelve at least of the grand jury, in the first place, assenting
to the accusation, and afterwards by the whole petit jury, of
twelve more, finding him guilty upon his trial." 4 BL Cora.
306. The same author, after referring to prosecutions by information, describing their different kinds, and stating that the
mode of prosecution by information (or suggestion) filed on
record by the Kings attorney-general, or by his coroner or
master of the crown office in the Court of King's Bench, was
as ancient as the common law itself, proceeds: "But these informations (of every kind) are confined by the constitutional
law to mere misdemeanors only; for, wherever any capital
offence is charged, the same law requires that the accusation be
warranted by the oath of twelve men, before the party shall
be put to answer it." 4 Bl. Com. 309-10. Again, in his discussion of the trial by jury, Blackstone, after observing that the
English law has "wisely placed this strong and two-fold
barrier, of a presentment and a trial by jury, between the
liberties of the people and the prerogative of the crown," says:
"The founders of the English law have, with excellent forecast,
contrived that no man shall be called to answer the King for
any capital crime, unless upon the peremptory accusation of
twelve or more of his fellow-subjects, the grand jury; and that
the truth of any accusation, whether preferred in the shape of
an indictment, information, or appeal, should afterwards be
confirmed by the unanimous suffrage of twelve of his equals
and neighbors, indifferently chosen and superior to all suspicion.
So that the liberties of England cannot but subsist so long as
this alaium remains sacred and inviolate, not only from all

HURTADO v. CALIFORNIA.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

open attacks (which none will be so hardy as to make), but
also from all secret machinations which may sap and undermine
it, by introducing new and arbitrary methods of trial, by
justices of the peace, commissioners of the revenue, and courts
of conscience. And however convenient these may appear at
first (as doubtless all arbitrary powers, well executed, are the
most convenient), yet let it be again remembered that delays
and little inconveniences in the forms of justice, are the price
that all free nations must pay for their liberty in more substantial matters; that these inroads upon the sacred bulwark of the
nation are fundamentally opposite to the spirit of our constitution; and that, though begun in trifles, the precedent may
gradually increase and spread to the utter disuse of jurors in
4 BI. Corn.
questions of the most momentous concern."
349-50.
Hawkins, in his Pleas of the Crown (Bk. 2, chap. 26),
after saying that it is every-day practice to proceed by information in certain cases, says: "But I do not find it anywhere holden that such an information will lie for any
capital crime, or for misprision of treason." In Wooddeson's
Lectures on the Laws of England (Lect. 38), it is said that
"informations cannot be brought in capital cases, nor for misprision of treason." Bacon, in his Abridgment, lays it down:
"But though, as my Lord Hale observes, in a7Z criminal causes
the most regular and safe way, and most consonant to the
statute of Magna Charta, &c., is by presentment or indictment.
of twelve sworn men, yet he admits that, for crimes inferior
to capitalones, the proceedings may be by information." Title
Information A. See also 2 Hal. Hist. P. C. c. 201; Jacobs'
Law Dictionary, Title Information; Broom's Co. Laws England, vol. 4, p. 396; Story's Const. § 1784.
I omit further citations of authorities, which are numerous,
to prove that, according to the settled usages and modes of
proceeding existing under the common and statute law of England at the settlement of this country, information in capital
cases was not consistent with the "law of the land," or with
"due process of law." Such was the understanding of the
patriotic men who established free institutions upon this contiVOL. CX-85

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, T.

nent. Almost the identical words of Magna Chart were incorporated into most of the State Constitutions before the
adoption of our national Constitution. When they declared,
in substance, that no person should be deprived of life, liberty,
or property, except by the judgment of his peers or the law of
the land, they intended to assert his right to the same guaranties that were given in the mother country by the great charter and the laws passed in furtherance of its fundamental
principles.
My brethren concede that there are principles of liberty and
justice, lying at the foundation of our civil and political institutions, which no State can violate consistently with that due
process of law required by the Fourteenth Amendment in proceedings involving life, liberty, or property. Some of these
principles are enumerated in the opinion of the court. But,
for reasons which do not impress my mind as satisfactory,
they exclude from that enumeration the exemption from prosecution, by information, for a public offence involving life.
By what authority is that exclusion made? Is it justified by
the settled usages and modes of proceedure existing under the
common and statute law of England at the emigration of our
ancestors, or at the foundation of our government? Does not
the fact that the people of the original States required an
amendment of the national Constitution, securing exemption
from prosecution, for a capital offence, except upon the indictment or presentment of a grand jury, prove that, in their judgment, such an exemption was essential to protection against
accusation and unfounded prosecution, and, therefore, was a
fundamental principle in liberty and justice? By the side of
that exemption, in the same amendment, is the declaration that
no person shall be put twice in jeopardy for the same offence,
nor compelled to criminate himself, nor shall private property
be taken for public use without just compensation. Are not
these principles fundamental in every free government established to maintain liberty and justice? If it be supposed that
immunity from prosecution for a capital offence, except upon
the presentment or indictment of a grand jury, was regarded
at the common law any less secured by the law of the land, or

HURTADO v. CALIFORNIA.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

any less -valuable, or any less essential to due process of law,
than the personal rights and immunities just enumerated, I
take leave to say that no such distinction is authorized by any
adjudged case, determined in England or in this country prior
to the adoption of our Constitution, or by any elementary
writer upon the principles established by Magna Charta and
the statutes subsequently enacted in explanation or enlargement of its provisions.
But it is said that the framers of the Constitution did not suppose that due process of law necessarily required for a capital
offence the institution and procedure of a grand jury, else they
would n 6t in the same amendment prohibiting the deprivation
of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law, have
made specific and express provision for a grand jury where the
crime is capital or otherwise infamous; therefore, it is argued,
the requirement by the Fourteenth Amendment of due process
of law in all proceedings involving life, liberty, and property,
without specific reference to grand juries in any case whatever,
was not intended as a restriction upon the power which it is
claimed the States previously had, so far as the express
restrictions of the national Constitution are concerned, to disp~nse altogether with grand juries.
This line of argument, it seems to me, would lead to results
which are inconsistent with the vital principles of republican
government. If the presence in the Fifth Amendment of a
specific provision for grand juries in capital cases, alongside the
provision for due process of law in proceedings involving life,
liberty, or property, is held to prove that "due process of law"
did not, in the judgment of the framers of the Constitution,
necessarily require a grand jury in capital cases, inexorable
logic would require it to be, likewise, held that the right not
to be put twice in jeopardy of life and limb for the same offence,
nor compelled in a criminal case to testify against one's selfrights and immunities also specifically recognized in the Fifth
Amendment-were not protected by that due process of law
required by the settled usages and proceedings existing under
the common and statute law of England at the settlement of
this country. More than that, other amendments of the Con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

stitution proposed at the same time, expressly recognize the
right of persons to just compensation for private property taken
for public use; their right, when accused of crime, to be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation against them,
and to a speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury of the State
and district wherein the crime was committed; to be confronted by the witnesses against them; and to have compulsory
process for obtaining witnesses in their favor. Will it be
claimed that these rights were not secured by the "law of the
land" or by "due process of law," as declared and established
at the foundation of our government ? Are they to be excluded
from the enumeration of the fundamental principles of liberty
and justice, and, therefore, not embraced by "due process of
law?" If the argument of my brethren be sound, those rights
-although universally recognized at the establishment of our
institutions as secured by that due process of law which for
centuries had been the foundation of Anglo-Saxon libertywere not deemed by our fathers as essential in the due process
of law prescribed by our Constitution; because,-such seems to
be the argument-had they been regarded as involved in due
process of law they would not have been specifically and expressly provided .for, but left to the protection given by the
general clause forbidding the deprivation of life, liberty, or
property without due process of law. Further, the reasoning
of the opinion indubitably leads to the conclusion that but for
the specific provisions made in the Constitution for the security
of the personal rights enumerated, the general inhibition
against deprivation of life, liberty, and property without due
process of law would not have prevented Congress from enacting a statute in derogation of each of them.
Still further, it results from the doctrines of the opinion-if
I do not misapprehend its scope-that the clause of the Fourteenth Amendment forbidding the deprivation of life or liberty
without due process of law, would not be violated by a State
regulation, dispensing with petit juries in criminal cases, and
permitting a person charged with a crime involving life to be
tried before a single judge, or even a justice of the peace, upon
a rule to show cause why he should not be hanged. I do no

HURTADO v. CALIFORNIA.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

injustice to my brethren by this illustration of the principles of
the opinion. It is difficult, in my judgment, to over-estimate
the value of the petit jury system in this country. A sagacious
statesman and jurist has well said that it was "the best guardian of both public and private liberty which has been hitherto
devised by the ingenuity of man," and that "liberty can never
be insecure in that country in which the trial of all crimes is by
the jury." Mr. Madison observed, that while trial by jury
could not be considered as a natural right, but one resulting
from the social compact, yet it was "as essential to secure the
liberty of the people as any one of the pre-existent rights of
nature." .1 Lloyd's Deb. 430. "When our more immediate
ancestors," says Story, "removed to America, they brought
this privilege with them, as their birthright and inheritance, as
a part of that admirable common law, which had fenced round
and interposed barriers on every side against the approaches of
arbitrary power." Story's Const. § 1779. I submit, however,
with confidence, there is no foundation for the opinion that,
under Magna Charta or at common.law, the right to a trial by
jury in a capital case was deemed of any greater value to the
safety and security of the people than was the right not to
answer, in a capital case, upon a mere information filed by an
officer of the government, without previous incuiry by a grand
jury. While the former guards the citizen against improper
conviction, the latter secures him against unfounded accusation.
A State law which authorized the trial of a capital case before
a single judge, perhaps a justice of the peace, would-if a petit
jury in a capital case be not required by the fundamental
principles of liberty and justice-meet all the requirements of
due process of law, as indicated in the opinion of the court;
for such a law would not prescribe a special rule for pa4icular
persons; it would be a general law which heard before it condemned, which proceeded upon inquiry, and under which
judgment would be rendered only after trial; it would be embraced by the rule laid down by the court when it. declares
that. any legal proceeding enforced by public authority, whether
sanctioned by age and custom, or newly devised in the discretion of the legislative power, in furtherance of the public

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

good, which regards and preserves those principles of liberty
and justice, must be held to be due process of law.
It seems to me that too much stress is put upon the fact that
the framers of the Constitution made express provision for the
security of those rights which at common law were protected
by the requirement of due process of law, and, in addition, declared, generally, that no person shall "be deprived of life,
liberty or property without due process of law." The rights,
for the security of which these express provisions were made,
were of a character so essential to the safety of the people that
it was deemed wise to avoid the possibility that Congress, in
regulating the processes of law, would impair or destroy them.
Hence, their specific enumeration in the earlier amendments of
the Constitution, in connection with the general requirement of
due process of law, the latter itself being broad enough to
cover every right of life, liberty or property secured by the
settled usages and modes of proceeding existing under the
common and statute law of England at the time our governmeit was founded. Pomeroy's Municipal Law, 366, 372.
The views which I have attempted to express are supported
by the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, in Tones v.
Robbins, 8 Gray, 329, reaffirmed in Nolan's Case, 122 Mass.
330, 332, and in- Commonwealth v. Honeman, 127 Mass. 450.
Among the questions there presented was whether a statute of
Massachusetts which gave a single magistrate authority to try
an offence punishable by imprisonment in the State prison,
without the presentment by a grand jury, violated that provision of the State Constitution which declared that "no man
shall be arrested, imprisoned, exiled, or deprived of his life,
liberty, or estate, but by the judgment of his peers, or the law
of the land." It was held that it did.
"Tiis clause, in its whole structure," said Chief Justice Shaw,
speaking for the court, "is so manifestly conformable to the
words of Magna Charta, that we are not to consider it as a
newly invented phrase, first used by the makers of our Constitution; but we are to look at it as the adoption of one of the
great securities of private right, handed to us as among the liberties and privileges which our ancestors enjoyed at the time of

HURTADO v. CALIFORNIA.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

their emigration and claimed to hold and retain as their birthright.
"These terms, in this connection, cannot, we think, be used
in their most bald and literal sense to mean the law of the land
at the time of their trial; because the laws may be shaped and
altered by the legislature, from time to time; and such a provision, intended to prohibit the making of any law impairing
the ancient rights and liberties of the subject, would under such
a construction be wholly nugatory and void. The legislature
might simply change the law by statute, and thus remove the
landmark and the barrier intended to be set up by this provision
in the Bill of Rights. It must, therefore, have intended: the
ancient established law and course of legal proceedings, by an
adherence to which our ancestors in England, before the settlement of this country, and the emigrants themselves and their
descendants, had found safety for their personal rights." After
recognizing "law of the land" in Magna Charta and in the Constitution of Massachusetts as having the same meaning as " due
process of law," and after stating that the people of the original
States deemed it essential for the better security of their rights
of life, liberty, and property, that their Constitutions should set
forth and declare the fundamental principles of free government, Chief Justice Shaw proceeds:. "Most of the State Constitutions did contain these declarations, more or less detailed
and explicit; but the general purpose was to assert and maintain the great rights of English subjects, as they had been
maintained by the ancient laws, and the actual enjoyment of
civil rights under them. 'The sense of America was,' says
Chancellor Rent. ' more fully ascertained, and more explicitly
and solemnly promulgated, in the memorable Declaration of
Rights of the first Continental Bill of Rights, in October, 1774,
and which was a representation of all the States except Georgia.
That declaration contained the assertion of several great and
fundamental principles of American liberty; and it constituted
the basis of those subsequent bills of rights which, under various modifications, pervaded all our Constitutional charters' 2
Kent, 5, 6.
"The right of individual citizens to be secure from an open

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

and public accusation of crime, and from the trouble, expense,
and anxiety of a public trial, before a probable cause is established by the presentment and indictment of a grand jury, in
case of high offences, is justly regarded as one of the securities
to the innocent against hasty, malicious, and oppressive public
prosecutions, and as one of the ancient immunities and privileges of English liberty."
Chancellor Kent, referring to the rights of personal security,
as guarded by constitutional provisions, which were transcribed
into the Constitutions of this country from Magna Charta and
other fundamental acts of the English Parliament, says: "And
where express constitutioial provisions on the subject appear
to be wanting, the same principles are probably asserted by
declaratory legislative acts; and they must be regarded as fundamental doctrines in every State, for the colonies were parties
to the national declaration of rights in 1774, in which the trial
by jury, and the other rights and liberties of English subjects,
were peremptorily claimed as their undoubted inheritance and
birthright. It may be received as a proposition, universally
understood and acknowledged throughout this country, that
no person can be taken or imprisoned, or disseized of his freehold or estate, or exiled or condemned, or deprived of life, liberty, or property, unless by the law of the land or the judgment of his peers. The words by the law of Ike land, as used
originally in Magna Charta in reference to this subject, are
understood to mean due process of law, that is, by indictment
or presentment of good and lawful men; and this, says Lord
Coke, is the true sense and exposition of these words." And
Kent immediately adds: "The better and larger definition of
dueprocess of law is that it means law in its regular course of
administration through courts of justice."
Because of this general definition of due process of law, that
distinguished jurist, it seems is claimed as authority for the
present decision. When Lord Coke said that indictment or
presentment was due process of law, he had reference, of course,
to proceedings in cases in which, by the law of the land, that
kind of procedure was required. In no commentary upon
Magna Charta is it more distinctly stated than in Coke's that

HURTADO v. CALIFORNIA.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

informations were consistent with the law of the land in certain
cases, and no one has more emphatically declared that, in capitalcases, informations are not allowed by that law and were not
due process of law. He referred to indictments and presentments to illustrate what was due process of law in prosecutions
against persons accused of the higher grades 6f crime, and not
for the purpose of giving a full definition of the phrase "due
process of law," as applicable to both civil and criminal cases.
The definition by Kent of "due process of law" was, therefore.
better and larger, because it embraced casescivil and criminal,
in ren and in personam, and included proceedings affecting
every right, whether of life, liberty, or property, guaranteed
by the law of the land. He was very far from saying that
every proceeding, involving new methods of trial, was due
process of law, because declared by the legislature to be such, or
because it may be regular inthe sense that it is established by
a general statute.
It is said by the court that the Constitution of the United
,States was made for an undefined and expanding, future, and
that its requirement of due process of law in proceedings
involving life, liberty and property, must be 'sointerpreted as
not to deny to the law the capacity of progress and improvement; that the greatest security for the fundamental principles
of justice resides in the right of the people to make their own
laws and alter them at pleasure. It is difficult, however, to
perceive anything in the system of prosecuting human -beings
for their lives, by information, which suggests that the State
which adopts it has entered upon an era of progress and improvement in the law of criminal procedure. Even the statute
of L 7,c.3, allowing informations, and, "under which Empson
and Dudley, and an arbitrary star chamber, fashioned the proceedings of the law into a thousand tyrannical forms," expressly
declared that it should not extend "to treason, murder or felony,
or to any other offence wherefor any person should lose life or
member." So great, however, were the outrages perpetrated
by those men, that ihis statute was repealed by 1 H. 8, c.6.
Under the local statutes in question, even the district attorney
of the county is deprived of any discretion in the premises; for,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

if in the judgment of the magistrate before whom the accused is
brought-and, generally, he is only a justice of the peace--a public offence has been committed, it becomes the duty of the district
attorney to proceed against him by information for the offence
indicated by the committing magistrate. Thus, in California,
nothing stands between the citizen and prosecution for his life,
except the judgment of a justice of the peace. Had such a
system prevailed in England, in respect of all grades of public
offences, the patriotic men who laid the foundation of our government would not have been so persistent in claiming, as the
inheritance of the colonists, the institutions and guaranties
which had been established by her fundamental laws for the
protection of the rights of life, liberty and property. The royal
governor of lew York would not have had occasion to write
in 1697 to the home government that the members of the provincial legislature were "big with the privileges of Englishmen
and Magna Charta." 3 Bancroft, 56. NSor would the Colonial Congress of 1774, speaking for the people of twelve colonies, have permitted, as it did, the journal of their proceedings
to be published with a medallion on the title-page, "representing Magna Charta as the pedestal on which was raised the
column and cap of liberty, supported by twelve hands, and
containing the words IHanc Tuemur, Hac Yitimur.'" Hurd
on Habeas Corpus, 108. Anglo-Saxon liberty would, perhaps,
have perished long before the adoption of our Constitution, had
it been in the power of government to put the subject on trial
for his life whenever a justice of the peace, holding his office
at the will of the crown, should certify that he had committed
a capital crime. That such officers are, in some of the States,
elected by the people, does not add to the protection of the
citizen; for, one of the peculiar benefits of the grand jury system, as it exists in this country and England, is that it is composed, as a general rule, of a body of private persons, who do
nwt hold offlee at the will of the government, or at the will of
voters. In many if not in all of the States civil officers are disqualified to sit on grand juries. In the iecrecy of the investigations by grand juries, the weak and helpless--proscribed,
perhaps, because of their race, or pursued by an unreasoning

KURTADO v. CALIFORNIA.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

public clamor-have found, and will continue to find, security
against official oppression, the cruelty of mobs, the machinations of falsehold, and the malevolence of private persons who
would use the machinery of the law to bring ruin upon their
personal enemies. "Grand juries perform," says $tory, "1most
important public functions, and are a great security to the
citizens against vindictive prosecutions either by the government, or by political partisans, or by private enemies." Story's
Const. § 1785.
To the evidence already adduced to show the necessity and
value of that system, I may add the testimony of Mr. Justice
Wilson, formerly of this court, and one of the foremost of the
great men who have served the cause of constitutional government. He said that "among all the plans and establishments
which have been devised for securing the wise and uniform execution of the criminal laws, the institution of grand juries
holds the most distinguished place. This institution is, at least
in the present times, the peculiar boast of the common law.
The era of its commencement, and the particulars attending its
gradual progress and improvement, are concealed behind a thick
veil of a very remote antiquity. But one thing concerning it
is certain. In the annals of the world there is not found another
institution so well adapted for avoiding all the inconveniences
and abuses, which would otherwise arise from malice, from rigor,
from negligence, or from partiality inthe prosecution of crimes."
3 Wilson's Works, 363-4.
Mr. Justice Field, referring to the ancient origin of the
grand jury system in England, said, that it was, "1at the time
of the settlement of this country, an informing and accusing
tribunal, without whose previous action no person charged with a
felony could, except in certain special cases, be put upon his trial.
And iti the struggles which at times arose in England between
the powers of the King and the rights of the subject, it often
stood as a barrier against persecution in his name; until, at length,
it came to be regarded as an institution by which the subject
was rendered secure against oppression from unfounded prosecutions of the crown. In this country, from the popular
character of our institutions, there has seldom been any contest

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

between the government and the citizen, which required the
existence of the grand jury as a protection against oppressive
action of the government. Yet the institution was adopted in
this country, and is continued from considerations similar to
those which give to it its chief value in England, and is designed
as a means, not only of bringing to trial persons accused of
public offences upon just grounds, but also as a means of protecting the citizen against unfounded accusation, whether it
comes from government, or be prompted by partisan passion or
private enmity." 2 Sawyer, 668-9. He quoted with approval the
observations of a distinguished judge to the effect that "into
every quarter of the globe in which the Anglo-Saxon race have
formed settlements, they have carried with them this timehonored institution, ever regarding it with the deepest veneration, and connectiug its perpetuity with that of civil liberty."
In their independent action," said the same jurist, "the persecuted have found the *most fearless protectors; and in the
records of their doings are to be discovered the noblest stands
against the oppressions of power, the virulence of malice, and
the intemperance of prejudice."
We have already seen that for centuries before the adoption
of our present Constitution, due process of law according to the
maxims of Magna Charta and the common law-the interpreters
of constitutional grants of power-which even the British Parliament with all its authority could not rightfully disregard,
Cooley's Const. Lim. 175, absolutely forbade that any person
should be required to answer for his life except upon indictment
or presentment of a grand jury. And we have seen that the
people of the original States deemed it of vital importance to
incorporate that -principle into our Constitution, not only
by requiring due process of law in all proceedings involving life,
liberty, or property, but by specific and express provision
giving immunity from prosecution, in capital cases, except by
that mode of procedure.
To these considerations may be added others of very great
significance. When the Fourteenth Amendment was adopted,
all the States of the Union, some in terms, all substantially,
declared, in their constitutions, that no person shall be deprived

HURTADO v. CAlIFORNIA.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

of life, liberty, or property, otherwise than "by the judgment
of his peers, or the law of the land," or "without due process
of law." When that Amendment was adopted, the constitution of each State, with few exceptions, contained, and still
contains, a Bill of Rights, enumerating the rights of life, liberty
and property which cannot be impaired or destroyed by the
legislative department. In some of them, as in those of Pennsylvania, Kentucky, Ohio, Alabama, Illinois, Arkansas, Florida,
M4ississippi, Missouri and North Carolina, the rights so enumerated were declared to be embraced by "the general, great and
essential principles of liberty and free government;" in others,
as in those of Connecticut, in 1818, and Kansas, in 1857, to be
embraced by "the great and essential principles of free government." Now, it is a fact of momentous interest in this discussion, that, when the Fourteenth Amendment was submitted and
adopted, the Bill of Rights and the constitutions'of twentyseven States expressly forbade criminal prosecutions, by information, for capital cases; * while, in the remaining ten
States, they were impliedly forbidden by a general clause declaring that no person should be deprived of life otherwise
than by "the judgment of his peers or the law of the land,"
or "without due process of law." t It may be safely affirmed
that, when that Amendment was adopted, a criminal prosecution, by information, for a crime involving life, was not permitted in any one of the States composing the Union. So that
the court, in this ease, while conceding that the requirement
* Ala., 1867, Art. 1, § 10 ; Ark., 1868, Art. 1, § 9 ; Cal., 1849, Art. 1, 8 ;
Conn., 1818, Art., 1, § 9; DeL, 1831, Art. 1, § 8; Flor., 1868, Art. 1, § 9;
II., 1848, Art. 13, § 10 ; Iowa, 1857, Art. 1, § 11 ; Ky., 1850, Art. 18, § 13 ;

Me., 1820, Art. 1, § 7 ; Mass., 1780, Pt. 1, Art. 12, as contained in Jones v.
Robbins, 8 Gray 329 ; Minn., 1857, Art. 1, § 7 ; Miss., 1868, Art. 1, § 31 ; Mo.,
1865, Art. 1, § 24; Nebraska, 1866-7, Art. 1, § 8 ; Nev., 1864, Art. 1, § 8 ;
X. J., 1844, Art. 1,§ 9 ; N. Y., 1846, Art. 1, 6 ; N. C., 1868, Art. 1, § 12 ;
Ohio, Art. 1, § 10; Penn., 1838, Art. 9, § 10; R. 1., 1842, Art. 1. § 7 ; S. C.,
1868, Art. 1, § 19 ; Tenn., 1834, Art. 1, § 14 ; Tex., 1868, Art. 1, § 8 ; W. Va.,
1861-3, Art. 2. § 1 ; Wis., 1848, Art. 1, § 8.
t Geo., 1869, Art. 1, § 8 ; Ind., Art. 1, § 12 ; Kansas, 1859, Bill of Rights,
§ 18; La., 1868, Telle. 1, Art. 10 ; Md., 1867, Declaration of Rights. Art. 23 ;
Mich., 1850, Art. 6, § 82; N. H., 1792, Pt. 1, Art. 15 ; Oregon, 1857, Art. 1,.
§ 10 ; Vt., 1793, Chap. 1, Art. 10; Va., 1850, Bill of Rights, Art. 8.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

of due process of law protects the fundamental principles of
liberty and justice, adjudges, in effect, that an immunity or
right, recognized at the common law to be essential to personal security, jealously guarded by our national Constitution
against violation by any tribunal or body exercising authority
under the.general government, and expressly or impliedly recognized, when the Fourteenak Amendment was adopted, in the
Bill of Rights or Constitution of every State in the Union, is,
yet, not a fundamental principle in governments established,
as those of the States of the Union are, to secure to the citizen
liberty and justice, and, therefore, is not involved in that due
process of law required in proceedings conducted under the
sanction of a State. My sense of duty constrains me to dissent
from this interpretation of the supreme law of the land.
Mi. JUSTICE FIELD did not take part in the decision of this
case.

WASHER v. BULLITT COUNTY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TE
DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
Argued February 1st, 1884.-Decided March 3d, 18.

When an amended complaint demands a sum different from that demanded
in the original, the amended and not the original complaint is to be looked
to in determining the question of jurisdiction.
At common law a county may be required or have authority to maintain a
bridge or causeway across its boundary line and extending into the territory of an adjoining county.
A statute of Kentucky which enacts that "County Courts have jurisdiction
to . . . erect and keep in repair necessary . . . bridges and other
structures and superintend the same, . . . provide for the good condi-

tion of the public highways of the county; and to execute all of its orders
consistent with law and within its jurisdiction" confers upon a County
Court authority to erect a bridge across a boundary stream and construct
approaches to it in the adjoining county.
The power conferred upon County Courts of adjoining counties by statute,
to construct bridges across boundary streams at joint expense is not exclusive, and does not take away the common-law right in each of the
counties to erect such bridges at its sole cost.

