FRELINGHUTYSEN v. KEY.
Syllabus.

That a suit cannot be removed under the third subdivision of
sec. 639, unless all the parties on one side of the controversy
are citizens of different States from those on the other, was
settled in the case of the Sewing 2ifachine CoInpanies, 18
Wall. 553, and Fannevarv. Bryant, 21 Wall. 41, and that the
executors were necessary parties we have no doubt. The sum
of $2,000 was specifically bequeathed to them in trust for the
complainant, Mrs. Price, during her life, and after her death
for her children, or, in case of their death before coming of
age, for the two societies. The interest of the children is left
entirely to the protection of the executors, and is not represented either by the mother, who is complainant, or by the
societies who are defendants. If the children had united with
the mother in contesting the will the case might have been
different, but they have not done so, and their interests must
be treated accordingly.
Without, therefore, deciding any of the other questions,
The order remanding tite ease is aflrmed.

FRELINGUYSET, Secretary of State, v. KEY.
LA ABRA SILVER MINING COMPANY v. FRELINGHUYSENl, Secretary of State.
IN EROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Argued December 3d, 4th, 1883.-Decided January 7th, 184.
Awards under -aims Convention witk Mexico.
1. By the Claims Convention of July 4th, 1868, between the United States and
Mexico, it was agreed that "all claims on the part of corporations, companies or private individuals, citizens of the United States, upon the Government of the Mexican Republic, arising from injuries to their persons
or property by authorities of the Mexican Republic" should be submitted
to the decision of a commission to be created under the treaty ; that it
should "be competent for each government to name one person to attend
the commission as agent on its behalf, to present and support claims on
its behalf ;" and that the parties would "consider the result of the proceedings of this commission as a full, perfect and final settlement:"
Held, That, though the awards made by the Commissioners under this

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.
authority are on their face final and conclusive as between the United
States and Mexico, they are only so until set aside by agreement between
the two governments or otherwise; and that the United States may treat
with Mexico for a retrial of any case decided by the commission, and that
the President may withhold from any claimant his distributive share of
any sums paid by Mexico under the treaty, while negotiating with that
republic for a retrial of his case.
2. When it is alleged that a decision in an international tribunal against a
foreign government was obtained by the use of fraud, no technical rules
of pleading as applied in municipal courts should be allowed to stand in
the way of the national power to do what is right.
8. The relations between a claimant in an international tribunal and the foreign government, and between the claimant and his own government examined and considered.
4. ยง 1, act of June 18th, 1878, ch. 262, 20 Stat. 144, authorized and required the
Secretary of State to receive all sums paid by Mexico in pursuance of that
convention, and to distribute them in ratable proportions among those in
whose favor awards had been made : Held, That this only provided
for the receipt and distribution of the surns paid without such a protest or
reservation on the 'part of Mexico as in the opinion of the President
was entitled to further consideration, and that it did not set new limits
on executive power.
5. ยง 5 of that act requested the President to investigate charges of fraud made
by Mexico respecting the proof of certain claims before the commission,
and pointed out some subsequent executive acts that might be done in the
premises : Hde1, That this was only an expression of the desire of Congress
to have the charges investigated, but did not limit or increase the executive powers in that respect under preexisting laws.

These causes originated in petitions to the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia, for mandamus upon the Secretary of
State to compel him to pay to the petitioners (representing claims
proved before the commission established under the Claims Convention of July 4th, 1868, with Mexico), their distributive
shares of certain payments made by Mexico to the United
States in accordance with the terms of that convention. The
following are the facts as recited by the court, and on which
the opinion is based.
On the 4th of July, 1868, a convention between the United
States and the Republic of Mfexico, providing for the adjustment of the claims of citizens of either country against the
other, was concluded, and, on 1st of February, 1869, proclaimed by the President of the United States, by and with

FRELINGHUYSEN v. KEY.
Statement of Facts.

the advice and consent of the Senate.

By this convention

(Art. I.):
"All claims on the part of corporations, companies, or private
individuals, citizens of the United States, upon the government
of the Mexican Republic, arising from injuries to their persons or
property by authorities of the Mexican Republic, and all claims
on the part of corporations, companies, or private individuals,
citizens of the Mexican Republic, upon the government of the
United States, arising from injuries to their persons or property by
authorities of the United States, which may have been presented
to either government for its interposition with the other since
the signature of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, .....
and
which yet remain unsettled, as well as any other such claims which
may be presented within," a specified time, were to "be referred
to two commissioners, one to be appointed by the President of
the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, and one by the President of the Mexican Republic."

Provision was then made for the appointment of an umpire.
Arts. II., IV., and V., are as follows:
ArT. II. "The commissioners shall then conjointly proceed to
the investigation and decision of the claims which shall be presented to their notice, . . . but upon such evidence or information only as shall be furnished by or on behalf of their respective governments. They shall be bound to receive and peruse all
written documents or statements which may be presented to them
by or on behalf of their respective governments in support of, or
in answer to any claim, and to hear, if required, one person on
each side on behalf of each government on each and every separate claim. Should they fail to agree in opinion upon any individual claim, they shall call to their assistance the umpire
.;
and such umpire, after having examined the evidence adduced for
and against the claim, and after having heard, if required, one
person on each side as aforesaid, and consulted with the commissioners, shall decide thereupon finally and without appeal. .
It shall be competent for each government to name one person to
attend the commissioners as agent on its behalf, to present and
support claims on its behalf and to answer claims made upon it,
VOL. cx-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.
and to represent it generally in all matters connected with the investigation and decision thereof. The President of the United
and the President of the Mexican Republic
States . ...
hereby solemnly and sincerely engage to consider the decisions of
the commissioners conjointly, or of the umpire, as the case maybe,
as absolutely final and conclusive upon each claim decided upon
by them or him respectively, and to give full effect to such decision without any objection, evasion, or delay whatsoever. ... "
AmT. IV. "When decisions shall have been made by the commissioners and the arbiter in every case which shall have been
laid before them, the total amount awarded in all the cases decided in favor of the citizens of the one party shall be deducted
from the total amount awarded to the citizens of the other party,
and the balance, to the amount of $300,000, shall be paid at the
within
city of Mexico or at the city of Washington, .
twelve months from the close of the commission, to the government in favor of whose citizens the greater amount may have
been awarded, without interest. . . . The residue of the said
balance shall be paid in annual instalments to an amount not
. in any one year until the whole
exceeding $300,000
shall have been paid."
ART. V. "The high contracting parties agree to consider the
result of the proceedings of this commission as a full, perfect,
and final settlement of every claim upon either government arising out of any transaction of a date prior to the exchange of the
ratifications of the present convention ; and further engage that
every such claim, whether or not the same may have been presented to the notice of, made, preferred, or laid before the said
commission, shall, from and after the conclusion of the proceedings of the said commission, be considered and treated as finally
settled, barred, and thenceforth inadmissible." 15 Stat. 679.
Under this convention commissioners were appointed who
entered on the performance of their duties. Benjamin Weil
and the La Abra Silver Mining Company, citizens of the
United States, presented to their government certain claims
against Mexico. These claims were referred to the commissioners, and finally resulted in an award, on the 1st of October,
1875, in favor of Weil and against Mexico for $489,810.68, and

FRELINGHUYSEN v. KEY.
Statement of Facts.

on the 27th of December, 1875, in favor of La Abra Silver
Mining Company for $683,041.32. On the adjustment of balances under the provisions of Art. IV. of the convention it was
found that the awards against Mexico exceeded largely those
against the United States, and the government of Mexico has
promptly and in good faith met its annual payments, though
it seems from the beginning to have desired a re-examination
of the Weil and La Abra claims.
On the 18th of June, 1878, Congress passed an act (c. 262,

20 Stat. 144), secs. 1 and 5 of which are as follows:
SEc. 1. "That the Secretary of State be, and he is hereby authorized and required to receive any and all moneys which may
be paid by the Mexican Republic under and in pursuance of the
convention between the United States and the Mexican Republic
for the adjustment of claims;

.

.

.

and, whenever and as

often as any instalments shall have been paid by the Mexican
Republic on account of said awards, to distribute the moneys so
received in ratable proportions among the corporations, companies, or private individuals respectively in whose favor awards
have been made by said commissioners, or by the umpires, or to
their legal representatives or assigns, except as in this act otherwise limited or provided, according to the proportion which their
respective awards shall bear to the whole amount of such moneys
then held by him, and to pay the same, without other charge or
deduction than is hereinafter provided, to the parties respectively
entitled thereto."
SEc. 5. "And whereas the government of Mexico has called
the attention of the government of the United States to the
claims hereinafter named, with a view to a rehearing, therefore
be it enacted that the President of the United [States] be, and he
is hereby, requested to investigate any charges of fraud presented
by the Mexican government as to the cases hereinafter named,
and if he shall be of the opinion that the honor of the United
States, the principles of public law or considerations of justice
and equity require that the awards in the cases of Benjamin Well
and La Abra Silver Mining Company, or either of them, should be
opened and the cases retried, it shall be lawful for him to withhold payment of said awards, or either of them, until such case or

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

cases shall be retried and decided in such manner as the governments of the United States and Mexico may agree, or until Congress shall otherwise direct. And in case of such retrial and decision, any moneys paid or to be paid by the Republic of Mexico
in respect of said awards respectively shall be held to abide the
event, and shall be disposed of accordingly; and the said present
awards shall be set aside, modified, or affirmed, as may be determined on such retrial: provided that nothing herein shall be construed as an expression of any opinion of Congress in respect to
the character of said claims, or either of them."
During the year 1879, President Hayes caused an investigation to be made of the charges of fraud presented by the Mexican government, and the conclusion he reached is thus stated
in the report of Mr. Evarts, the then Secretary of State:
"I conclude, therefore, that neither the principles of public law
nor considerations of justice or equity require or -permit, as between the United States and Mexico, that the awards in these
cases should be opened and the cases retried before a new international tribunal or under any new convention or negotiation
respecting the same between the United States and Mexico.
"Second. I am, however, of opinion that the matters brought
to the attention of this government on the part of Mexico do
bring into grave doubt the substantial integrity of the claim of
'Benjamin Weil and the sincerity of the evidence as to the measure
'of damages insisted upon and accorded in the case of the La Abra
Silver Mining Company, and that the honor of the United States
does require that these two cases should le further investigated
by the United States to ascertain whether this government has
been made the means of enforcing against a friendly power claims
of our citizens based upon or exaggerated by fraud.
"If such further investigation should remove the doubts which
have been fairly raised upon the representations of Mexico, the
honor of the United States will have been completely maintained.
If, on the other hand, the claimants shall fail in removing these
doubts, or they should be replaced by certain condemnation, the
honor of the United States will be vindicated by such measures
as may then be dictated.
"Third. The executive government is not furnished with the

FRELINGHUYSEN v. KEY.
Statement of Facts.
means of instituting and pursuing methods of investigation which
can coerce the production of evidence or compel the examination
of parties and witnesses. The authority for such an investigation
must proceed from Congress. I would advise, therefore, that
the proofs and the conclusions you shall come to thereon, if adverse to the immediate payment on these awards of the instalments received from Mexico, be laid before Congress for the exercise 6f their plenary authority in the matter."
This action of the President was communicated to Congress

under date of April 15th, 1880, by his forwarding a copy of
the report of the Secretary of State, which concludes as
follows:
"Unless Congress should now make this disposition of the matter, and furnish thereby definite instructions to the Department to
reserve further payments upon these awards till the conclusion of
such investigation, and to take such further order with the same
thereafter as Congress might direct, it would appear to be the
duty of the Executive to accept these awards as no longer open
to reconsideration, and proceed in the payment of the same pro
rata with all other awards under the convention."
No definitive instructions were given by Congress in respect
to the matter during that session, and after the close of the
session payments were made on these awards by the direction
of the President the same as on the others. Another instalment was paid by the Mexican government and distributed
to these claimants with the rest during President Garfield's
administration. In this wayfive instalments were distributed.
After President Arthur came into office he examined the cases
further, and, "believing that said award was obtained by

fraud and perjury," negotiated a treaty with Medico providing
for a rehearing.
for ratification.

This treaty is now pending before the Senate
On the 31st of January, 1882, the sixth in-

stalment was paid by Mexico to Mr. Frelinghuysen, the
present Secretary of State. A distribution of this instalment
to these claimants has been withheld by order of the President

on account of the pending treaty.
These suits were brought in the Supreme Court of the IDis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court

trict of Columbia to obtain writs of mandamus requiring the
Secretary of State to pay to the several relators the amounts
distributable to them respectively upon their disputed awards
from the instalment of 1882. The relator, Key, is the assignee
of part of the Weil claim. In this case the Secretary filed an
answer setting up the action of President Arthur in respect to
this claim and the negotiation of the new treaty. To this the
relator demurred. Upon the hearing the court below sustained
the demurrer and awarded a peremptory writ Vs prayed for.
In the case of the La Abra Company a petition substantially
like that of the relator Key was demurred to by the Secretary.
Upon the hearing this demurrer was sustained and the petition
dismissed. In this case, therefore, the action of President
Arthur does not appear affirmatively on the face of the record,
but it was conceded on the argument that it might properly be
considered.
The writ of error in the Key case was brought by the
Secretary of State, and in the other by the La Abra Company.
.mr.P. Phillips,for Key.
Xfr. Sarmuel Shellabarger, for the La Abra Silver Mining
Company.
.A1r. Solicitor-General,for the United States.
Mr. Attorney-General, for the United States.
26'. John Good, for Key, and .fr. .Federick P. Stanion,for
La Abra Company.
2r. T. IF. Bartley filed a brief for the La Abra Company,
and 26r. 1. B. Warden a brief for Key.
Mn. CnnFF JusTicE WAnm delivered the opinion of the court.
If we understand correctly the positions assumed by the different counsel for the relators, they are:
1. That the awards under the convention vested in the several claimants an absolute right to the amounts awarded them
respectively, and that this right was property which neither

FRELINGHUYSEN v. KEY.
Opinion of the Court.

the United States alone, nor the United States and Mexico together, could take away; and,
2. That, if this were not so, the action of President Hayes,
under the 5th section of the act of 1878, was conclusive on
President Arthur, and deprived him of any right he might
otherwise have had to investigate the charges of fraud presented by the Mexican government, or to withhold from the
relators their distributive shares of any moneys thereafter paid
to the Secretary of State under the authority of the first
section.
1. There is no doubt that the provisions of the convention
as to the conclusiveness of the awards are as strong as language can make them. The decision of the commissioners, or
the umpire, on each claim, is to be "absolutely final and conclusive" and "without appeal." The President of the United
States and the President of the Mexican Republic are "to
give full effect to such decisions, without any objection,
evasion, or delay whatsoever," and the result of the proceedings of the commission is to be considered "a full, perfect, and
final settlement of every claim upon either government arising
out of transactions prior to the exchange of the ratifications of
the . . . . convention." But this is to be construed as
language used in a compact of two nations "for the adjustment of the claims of the citizens of either . . . against
the other," entered into "to increase the friendly feeling between" republics, and "so to strengthen the system and principles of republican government on the American continent."
No nation treats with a citizen of another nation except
through his government. The treaty, when made, represents
a compact between the governments, and each government
holds the other responsible for everything done by their respective citizens under it. The citizens of the United States
having claims against Mexico were not parties to this convention. They induced the United States to assume the responsibility of seeking redress for injuries they claimed to have sustained by the conduct of Mexico, and as a means of obtaining
such redress the convention was entered into, by which not
only claims of citizens of the United States aga:inst Mexico

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

were to be adjusted and paid, but those of citizens of Mexico
against the United States as well. By the terms of the compact the individual claimants could not themselves submit
their claims and proofs to the commission to be passed upon.
Only such claims as were presented to the governments respectively could be "referred" to the commission, and the
commissioners were not allowed' to investigate or decide on
any evidence or information except such as was furnished by
or on behalf of the governments. After all the decisions
were made and the business of the commission concluded,
the total amount awarded to the citizens of one country was
to'be deducted from the amount awarded to the citizens of the
other, and the balance only paid in money by the government
in favor of whose citizens the smaller amount was awarded,
and this payment was to be made,. not to the citizens, but to
their government. Thus, while the claims of the individual
citizens were to be considered by the commission in determining amounts, the whole purpose of the convention was to
ascertain how much was due from one government to the
other on account of the demands of their respective citizens.
As between the United States and Mexico, the awards are
final and conclusive until set aside by agreement between the
two- governments or otherwise. Mexico cannot, under the
terms of the treaty, refuse to make the payments at the times
agreed on if required by the United States. This she does not
now seek to do. Her payments have all been made promptly
as they fell due, as far as these records'show. What she asks
is the consent of the United States to her release from liability
under the convention on account of the particular awards now
in dispute, because of the alleged fraudulent character of the
proof in support of the claims which the United States were
induced by the claimants to furmish for the consideration of
the commission.
As to the right of the United States to treat with Mexico
for a retrial, we entertain no doubt. Each government, when
it entered into the compact under which the awards were made,
relied on the honor and good faith of the other for protection
as far as possible against frauds and impositions by the indi-

FREINGHUYSEN v. KEY.
Opinion of the Court.

vidual claimants. It was for this reason that all claims were
excluded from the consideration of the commission except such
as should be referred by the several governments, and no evidence in support of or against a claim was to be submitted
except through or by the governments. The presentation by
a citizen of a fraudulent claim or false testimony for reference
to the commission was an imposition on his own government,
and if that governmept afterwards discovered that it had in this
way been made an instrument of wrong towards a friendly
power, it would be not only its right but its duty, to repudiate
the act and make reparation as far as possible for the consequences of its neglect if any there had been. International
arbitration must always proceed on the highest principles of
national honor and integrity. Claims presented and evidence
submitted to such a tribunal must necessarily bear the impress
of the entire good faith of the government from which they
come, and it is not to be presumed that any government will
for a moment allow itself knowingly to be made the instrument
of wrong in any such proceeding. No technical rules of pleading
as applied in municipal courts ought ever to be allowed to stand
in the way of the national power to do what is right under all
the circumstances. Every citizen who asks the intervention of
his own government against another for the redress of his
personal grievances must necessarily subject himself and his
claim to these requirements of international comity. None of
the cases cited by counsel are in opposition to this. They all
relate to the disposition to be made of the proceeds of international awards after they have passed beyond the reach of
the governments and into the hands of private parties. The
language of the opinions must be construed in connection
with this fact. The opinion of the Attorney-General in Gibes'
Case, 13 Opinions, 19, related to the authority of the executive
officers to submit the claim of Gibbes to the second commission
after it had been passed on by the first, without any new
treaty between the governments to that effect; not to the
power to make such a treaty.
2. The first section of the act of 1878 authorizes and requires
the Secretary of State to receive the moneys paid by Mexico

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

under the convention, and to distribute them among the several
claimants, but it manifests no disposition on the part of Congress to encroach on the power of the President and Senate to

conclude another treaty with Mexico in respect to any or even
all the claims allowed by the commission, if in their opinion
the honor of the United States should demand it. At most, it
only provides for receiving and distributing the sums paid
without a protest or reservation, such as..in the opinion of the
President, is entitled to further consideration. It does not
undertake to set any new limits on the powers of the Executive.
The fifth section, as we construe it, is nothing more than an
expression by Congress in a formal way of its desire that the
President will, before he makes any payment on the Weil or
La Abra claims, investigate the charges of fraud presented by
Mexico,
"and if he shall be of the opinion that the honor of the United
States, the principles of public law, or considerations of justice
and equity require that the awards, ....
.. or either of them,
should be opened and the cases retried," that he will "withhold
payment

. ...

until the case or cases shall be retried and

decided in such manner as the governments of the United States
land Mexico may agree, or until Congress may otherwise direct."
-From the beginning to the end it is, in form even, only a request from Congress to the Executive. This is far from making
the President for the time being a qucai judicial tribunal to
hear Mexico and the implicated claimants and determine once
for all as between them, whether the charges which Mexico
-makes have been judicially established. In our opinion it
would have been just as competent for President Hayes to
have instituted the same inquiry without this request as with it)
and his action with the statute in force is no more binding on
his successor than it would have been without. But his action
as reported by him to Congress is not at all inconsistent with
what has since been done by President Arthur. He was of
opinion that the disputed "cases should be further investigated
by the United States to ascertain whether this government has

FRELING-TYSEN v. KEY.
Opinion of the Court.

been made the means of enforcing against a friendly power
claims of our citizens based upon or exaggerated by fraud," and,
by implication at least, he asked Congress to provide him
the means "of instituting and furnishing methods of investigation which can coerce the production of evidence or compel
the dxamination of parties or witnesses." He did report
officially that he had "grave doubt as to the substantial integrity of the Weil claim" and the "sincerity of the evidence
as to the measure of damages insisted upon and accorded in
the case of La Abra .
.
Company." The report of Mr.
Evarts cannot be read without leaving the conviction that if
the means had been afforded, the inquiries which Congress
asked for would have been further prosecuted. The concluding
paragraph of the report is nothing more than a notification by
the President that unless the means are provided, he will consider that the wishes of Congress have been met, and that he
will act on such evidence as he has been able to obtain without
the help he wants. From the statements in the answer of
Secretary Frelinghuysen in the Key case, it appears that further
evidence has been found, and that President Arthur, upon this
and what was before President Hayes, has become satisfied
that the contested decisions should be opened and the claims
retried. Consequently, the President, believing that the honor
of the United States demands it, has negotiated a new treaty
providing for such a re-examination of the claims, and submitted it to the Senate for ratification. Under these circumstances it is, in our opinion, clearly within the discretion of the
President to withhold all further payments to the relators until
the diplomatic negotiations between the two governments on
the subject are finally concluded. That discretion of the Executive Department of the government cannot be controlled
by the judiciary.
The United States, when they assumed the responsibility of
presenting the claims of their citizens to Mexico for payment,
entered into no contract obligations with the claimants to assume their frauds and to collect on their account all that, by
their imposition of false testimony, might be given in the
awards of the commission. As between the United States and

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

the claimants, the honesty of the claims is always open to inquiry for the purposes of fair dealing with the government
against which, through the United States, a claim has been
made.
Of course, in what we have said we express no opinion on
the merits of the controversy between Mexico and the relators.
Of that we know nothing. All we decide is, that it was within
the discretion of the President to negotiate again with Mexico
in respect to the claims, and that as long as the two governments are treating on the questions involved, he may properly
withhold from the relators their distributive shares of the
moneys now in the hands of the Secretary of State.
The judment in the case of t7he La Alrna Company is afJ&ned with costs, and that in the case of Zey is reversed
with costs, and the cases remanded with instotios -todismiss the petition of Key.

SCHREIBER & Others v. SftARPLESS.
ORIGINAL.
Submitted December 17th, 1883.-Decided January 7th, 134.

Alatement-Action-Covyrigh--Penally-Stautes.
1. The rule at common law, that qui tam actions on penal statutes do not survive, prevails in the federal courts as to actions on penal statutes of the
United States, even in States where the statutes of the State allow suits
on State penal statutes to be prosecuted after the death of the offender.
2. An action to recover penalties and forfeitures for the infringement of a
copyright under the provisions of ยง 4965 Rev. Stat. is abated by the death
of the defendant.

Petition for mandamus to require the judge of the District
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania to reinstate a writ of scire facias sued out to bring in
the executors of the will of Sharpless to defend an action commenced against him in his lifetime, under ยง 4965 Rev. Stat., to

