HOFF v. JASPER COUNTY.
Statement of Facts

affirmatively on the face of the record that of this amount
$2,669.03 was not disputed below. The defence related alone
to the difference between these two amounts, which is less
than $5,000. The dispute here is only in reference to the
amount contested below. Such being the case, we have no jurisdiction. The cases of Gray v. Blanchard,97 U. S. 564;
Tintsman v. Mational Bank, 100 U. S. 6; and Hilton v. Dickin-son, 108 U. S. 165, are conclusive to this effect.
Dismissed.

HOFF -. JASPER COUNTY.
IN

ERROR

TO

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE IVESTERN DISTRICT OF 3ISSOURI.
Argued and submitted December 20th, 1883.-Decided January 7th, 1884.

Municipal Bonds-Holderfor Value.
1. When a municipal corporation subscribes to the capital stock of a railroad
company, and issues its bonds in payment therefor, the bonds must comply with the requisitions which the law makes necessary in respect of
registration and certificate before they are issued ; and innocent holders
for value are charged with the duty of knowing these laws, and of inquiring whether they have been complied with.
2. A statute requiring a State auditor to register municipal bonds and to certify that all the conditions of law have been complied with in their issue
calls for the exercise of no judicial functions on his part.
3. The rulings in Anthony v. County of Jasper,101 U. S. 693, involving the
same issue of bonds, adhered to. The additional facts shown in this case
present no legal aspects to distinguish it from that case.

Suit to recover on coupons on bonds issued by a county in
payment of subscription to stock of a railroad company by
a township within the county. The facts were in all respects
the same as those in Anthony v. County of Jasper,101 U. S.
693, except that here it was expressly found that the subscription of the township which was voted had actually been made
by the County Court and accepted by the railroad company before the act providing for the registration of bonds was approved, while there the acceptance of the subscription before

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

the approval of the act did not appear unless by implication.
The vote of the township was taken on the 5th of M[arch, 1872;
the order of the County Court for the subscription entered on
the 28th of March, and on the same day the subscription was
actually made and accepted. The registration act was approved March 30th.
-Mr. James S. Botsford for plaintiff in error, argued.
.M
. J.3fontague for the defendant in error, submitted on
his brief.
JusTIcE WirrE delivered the opinion of the court.
Upon the additional fact found-in this case it is insisted:
1. That if the registration act was applicable to the bonds
now in question, it impaired the obligation of the contract of
subscription, and is therefore, so far as such application is concerned, in contravention of art. I., sec. 10, clause 1, of the
Constitution of the United States; and,
2. That it was retrospective in its operation, and therefore
in contravention of art. I., see. 28, of the Constitution of Missouri, which is:
M . C=IF

"That no ex post facto law, nor law impairing the obligation
of contracts, or retrospective in its operation, can be passed."
It is also insisted tlat the 4th section of the act is in contravention of the Constitution of Missouri, because it delegates the
exercise of judicial power to an executive officer of the State.
The first two objections may be considered together, and to
our minds they are disposed of by the paragraph in the opinion
in Anthony v. County of Jayer,which is as follows (p. 699):
"It matters not that when the bonds were voted the registration law was not in force. Before they were issued it had
gone into effect. It did not change in any way the contract with
the railroad company. The company was just as much entitled
to its bonds when it complied with the conditions under which
they were voted after the law, as it could have been before. All
the legislature attempted to do was to provide what should be a

HOFF v. JASPER COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

good bond when issued.
form of the execution."

There was nothing changed but the

That is clearly the true construction of the 4th section of the
act. The contract of subscription undoubtedly gave the company the right to valid negotiable bonds executed in due form
of law. The section simply provides that before any-bond
thereafter issued shall be deemed to have been completely executed, it must have upon it the requisite certificate of the
Auditor of State. When so certified, if otherwise in proper
form, it may be issued as a duly executed negotiable public
security. The provision that the certificate of the auditor
"shall be primafacieevidence only of the facts therein stated"
does not of itself open the bonds to attack in the hands of a
bonafde holder. Before this law a bond, in due form issued
under a power conferred by the legislature, could not be impeached in the hands of a bonaftde holder for fraud or irregularities in the execution of the power by those charged with
that duty. The law does not interfere with this; it simply
says that the certificate which the auditor is to give shall not
prevent such an impeachment, that is to say, shall not operate
as an estoppel. The certificate, so far from casting suspicion
on the bond, gives additional credit, for it shows that an officer of
the State specially charged with the duty has examined and certilled officially "that all the conditions of the law have been complied with," "and also that the conditions of the contract under
which they [the bonds] were ordered to be issued have also been
complied with." Such a bond certainly can have no less credit
in the market than it would have without the official certificate.
Neither, in our opinion, does the fact that one more officer
must examine and certify the bond before it can be issued
place such an additional burden on the parties to the subscription as to impair the obligation of their contract. It is in
reality no more than providing that two officers shall sign a
municipal bond instead of one before the body politic shall be
bound by an instrument to be put on the market and sold as
commercial paper. We cannot believe, if when the subscription
was made, a bond, if signed by the presiding justice of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the CourL

County Court alone, .would have been sufficient, it would be
contended that the obligation of the contract of subscription
was impaired by a law passed afterwards that required the
signature of the clerk of the court to the bond as well as that
of the presiding justice. In the view we take of the case, the
requirement of the signature and certificate of the Auditor of
State is nothing more in legal effect than that. By the contract
of subscription the township agreed to take stock and pay for
it in valid negotiable bonds, and the company agreed to take
the bonds and give the stock. All the new law has done is to
provide what shall be a valid negotiable bond of the township,
and this by providing additional guaranties against fraudulent
and irregular issues. Of such a provision honest parties cannot
complain, for it is always to be presumed that a public officer
will do whenever called on what the law requires of him.
As to the objection that the duties of the Auditor, in respect
to his inquiries under the 4th section, are judicial rather than
executive, it is sufficient to say that every executive officer,
when called on to act in his official capacity, must inquire and
determine whether, on the facts, the law requires him to do
one thing or another. The due execution of these bonds was
an executive act, and the Auditor of State was made by law
one of the executive officers whose duty it was to take part in
their execution. The inquiries he is required to make do not
differ in their character from those the presiding justice of the
County Court should have made when he affixed his signature.
The certificate of the auditor being according to the statute
prima facie evidence only of the facts stated, amounts to
nothing more than that in his opinion the circumstances are
such that the bonds may properly go out as c6mmercial paper
of the kind they appear on their face to be. It binds no one.
It simply states the opinion of this executive officer on the
questions he was called on to consider in his official capacity.
It makes the bond complete in the form of its execution, and
in law does nothing more.
We are of opinion that this ease is in no respect distinguishable from Anthony v. County of Jauyer,and upon that authorThejudment is caffl~med.
ity

