JEFFRIES v. MUT. LIFE INS. CO. OF NEW YORK. 305
Syllabus.

ment was for $8,233.59, because, by an agreeed statement of
facts in the record, it appeared that the defendant admitted
he owed $5,099.59 of the amount recovered. To the same
effect is dennes8 v. Citizens' _NationaZ Bank of Rome, ante, 52.
The amount in dispute here is no more than was in dispute
below, and that was less than $5,000.

The motion to dis

isig ranted.

JEFFRIES, Administrator, v. MUTUAL LIFE INSURAOCE COffPMANY OF NEW YORK
IN

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Argued and submitted January 16th, 1884.-Decided February 4tb, 1884.

Error-Contract-Coartnership.

K. died in Missouri, in 1871, having a policy of insurance on his life. J. was.
appointed there his administrator. LJ. and T., copartners as attorneys at
law, brought a suit on the policy, in which, after a long litigation, there
was a judgment for the plaintiff for $13,495, in 1877, in a Circuit Court of
the United States. J. had died in 1873, and C. had been appointed administrator in his place, and substituted as plaintiff. The case was brought
into this court, by the defendant, by a writ of error. Before it was heard
here L. compromised the judgment with the defendant, in 1879, receiving
in full $9,401.42, and entered satisfaction of the judgment on the record.
C. then moved the Circuit Court to vacate the satisfaction, on the grounds
that L. had no authority to enter it, and had been notified by C., after the
compromise had been made and before the satisfaction had been entered,
that he would not ratify the compromise, and that the compromise was
unlawful because not authorized by the Probate Court. The Circuit Court
heard the motion on affidavits, and found as a fact, that 3. while administrator, entered into a contract with L. and T., whereby they agreed to
prosecute the claim for a portion of the proceeds, with full power to compromise it as they should please, and that the claim was a doubtful one,
and held that the compromise was rightly made, and that the plaintiff was
bound by the contract of J. and denied the motion. On a writ of error by
the plaintiff: Held, 1. This edurt cannot review such finding of fact. there
being evidence on both sides, and the error, if any, not being an error of
law; 2. The contract made was not champertous or unlawful, andJ. had
authority to make it; 8. The contract having given to L. and T. a power
vor. cx-20

306

OCTOBER TERM, 1883o
Opinion of the Court.

coupled with an interest, the death of J. did not impair the authority to
compromise, and C. was bound by it; 4. L. having continued to be a copartner with T. so far as this case was concerned, had authority to mahe
the compromise without the co-operation or consent of T.

XAr1.
T. T. B. rew8 (Y.
argued for appellant.

JohnTF. Booth was with him),

Xr'. S. T. Glover and Xr. John R. heq/ey for appellee, submitted on their brief.
Mmn JuSnrC BLLrcHoiu delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 19th of August, 1871, one Allan A. Kennedy died in
Franklin County, Missouri, having two policies of insurance on
his life, one in the Economical Life Insurance Company, of
Providence, R. I., for $5,000, and the other in the Mutual Life
Insurance Company, of :New York, the defendant in error, for
$10,000. Charles W. Jeffries was appointed administrator of
Kennedy, by the Probate Court of Franklin County. At that
time Joseph S. Laurie and Thomas W. B. Crews were attorneys
at law, and copartners as such, in St. Louis, Missouri. The
policies were put into their hands for suit, and they brought a
suit on each in the name of Jeffriqs, as plaintiff, in a State
,court of Missouri. The suits were both of them removed into
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Missouri In each suit an answer was put in setting up a
breach of warranty by the assured, in that, in the application
for the insurance, he stated that he was a single man when he
was a married man. In the suit against the Economical Company there was a demurrer to the answer, on the ground that
the answer failed to allege that the.misstatement was material
to the risk. The demurrer was overruled by the Circuit Court
and a judgment was entered for the defendant. On a writ of
error, this court affirmed the judgment, at October term, 1814,
22 WalL 47. In the suit against the defendant in error, which
is the suit now before us, there was a reply to the answer,
alleging that, under the policy, the misstatement was not a
breach of warranty, and that the statement was the representation of the agent of the company, and not that of the as-

JEFFRIES v. MUT. LIFE INS. CO. OF NEW YORK. 307
Opinion of the Court.

sured. In January, 1873, Charles W. Jeffries died, and the
plaintiff in error, Cuthbert S. Jeffries, was appointed in his
place administrator of Kennedy, and was substituted as plaintiff
in this suit in March, 1873. In November, 1873, while the suit
against the Economical Company was pending in this court, this
suit was tried in the Circuit Court before the court without a
jury. That court rendered a judgment for the plaintiff. The
defendant brought the case to this court by a writ of error, and
at October term, 1875, the judgment was reversed on the authority of the case in 22 Wall., and a new trial was awarded.
In April, 1877, the case was again tried, and before a jury,
which found a verdict for the plaintiff, but the Circuit Court
set it aside. The case was tried again before a jury, in October, 1877, and a verdict was rendered for the plaintiff, on
which a judgment in his favor was entered, October 9th, 1877,
for $13,495. On the 27th of October, 1877, the defendant
sued out a writ of error returnable to this court at October
term, 1878.- The case was docketed here, and the appearance
of Joseph S. Laurie was entered for the defendant in error, the
present plaintiff in error, and that of 0. H. Palmer for the
plaintiff in error, the present defendant in error. In February,
1879, Mr. Laurie compromised the judgment with the Mutual
Company. Interest at 6 per cent. was computed on the judgment from its entry to November 22d, 1878, and added, and
an abatement of $5,000 was then made, and the remainder,
$9,401.42, was paid by the company to Mr. Laurie. He surrendered the policy to the company, a stipulation signed by
Mr. Laurie and by Mr. Palmer, agreeing that the suit might
be dismissed from the docket of this court without costs to
either party as against the other, was presented to this court
and filed, and, on the 11th of March, 1879, an order was made
by this court dismissing the writ of error, each party to pay
his own costs. On the 15th of December, 1879, Mr. Laurie,
as attorney for the plaintiff, entered satisfaction of the judgment on the margin of the record of the judgment, in the law
record book in the office 6f the clerk of the Circuit Court, in
the presence of the deputy clerk, who signed the entry, as a
witness, the entry being as follows: "I hereby enter satisfac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of this judgment in full, this 15th day of December, 1879.
C. S. Jeffries, adm'r, &c., by Joseph S. Laurie, his att'y." The
plaintiff immediately filed a motion in the Circuit Court to
vacate the entry of satisfaction, alleging, as grounds therefor,
that the entry was made by Laurie without authority from the
plaintiff, and in fraud of his rights, and without consulting
him, and after Laurie had been notified that the plaintiff would
not ratify the said compromise; that the plaintiff had learned
only a few days previously of the dismissal of the writ of error
in March, 1819, and of the compromise made by Laurie, and
had at once notified Laurie and the defendant that the compromise was made without authority from him and he would
not ratify it; and that he could not authorize a compromise
without the order of the Probate Court of Frauklin County,
which order had not been made. The motion was supported
and opposed by affidavits, the defendant appearing by counsel
The court, as appears from its opinion, which is set forth in
the record, found, as a fact, from the evidence before it, which
evidence is before us, that Charles W. Jeifries, while administrator, entered into a contract with Mr. Laurie and Mr. Crews,
whereby they agreed to prosecute the claim for a portion of
the proceeds, with full power to compromise it as they should
please, and that the claim was a doubtful one. On the ground
of such express authority and of the doubtfulness of the claim,
the court held that the compromise was rightly made, notwithstanding the judgment. It also held that the plaintiff was
bound by the contract made by his predecessor. An order
was made overruling the motion, *and afterwards a motion for
a rehearing, founded on further affidavits, was denied. A bill
of exceptions setting forth all the papers used on both motions,
and containing proper exceptions, was signed. Thereupon the
plaintiff has brought the case to this court, on a writ of error.
It is contended for the plaintiff in error that the evidence
was insufficient to warrant the finding that there was any contract between the first administrator and Mr. Laurie and Mr.
Crews, authorizing a compromise; that the first administrator
had no authority to make such a contract, or to make a compromise, without the sanction of the Probate Court; that the

JEFFRIES v. MIT. LIFE INS. CO. OF NEW YORK. 309
Opinion of the Court.
plaintiff was not bound by the contract made by the first administrator; and that Laurie had no authority to compromise
without the co-operation of Crews.
As to the finding of fact that there was a contract by the
first administrator giving to the attorneys an interest in the
proceeds of the claim, with authority to compromise it, this
court is prohibited, by § 1011 of the Revised Statutes, from
reversing a case on a writ of error for any error in fact. In
this case there was a dispute as to the fact, and evidence on
both sides, and it was a fair exercise of the judgment of the
court, on the evidence before it, to make the finding of fact it
did. Under such circumstances, an erroneous finding of the
fact cannot be held to be an error of law. Hyde v. Booraem,
16 Pet. 169, 176; Parks v. Turner, 12 How. 39, 43.
There is nothing to show that the Circuit Court was not correct in its conclusion that the right of recovery in the suit was
very doubtful, notwithstanding the judgment. This being so,
as the writ of error was pending, the compromise would seem
to have been a proper one for the interests of the estate. It
was said by this court, in .folker v. Parker,7 Cranch, 436, 452,
speaking by Chief Justice Marshall:
"Although an attorney at law, merely as such, has,. strictly
speaking, no right to make a compromise, yet a court would be
-disinclined to disturb one which was not so unreasonable in itself
as to be exclaimed against by all, and to create an impression that
the judgment of the attorney has been imposed on or not fairly
exercised in the case."
We do not perceive that there was any want of authority in
the first administrator to make the contract he did. The contract was not champertous under the laws of Missouri. Duke
v. Ha2er,66 Mo. 51. The attorneys did not agree to pay any
part of the costs or expenses of the litigation. Nor do we find
in the statutes of Missouri which are cited, nor in any of its
judicial decisions, anythin. which forbids the making of such
a contract as the CircuitC6urt found to have been made in this
case. The administrator had the usual power of a trustee over
the estate, under his responsibility for a breach of his trust.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court

Perry on Trusts, § 482 ; OverAf v. Bu , 1 Mo. 537. The
authority given to him by statute, Wag. Stat., vol. 14 p. 8',
see. 26, to commence and prosecute actions fairly includes the
power to make such reasonable contracts in regard to compensation and the compromising of actions on doubtful claims as
the circumstances of particular cases may justify. The fact of
the enactment in Missouri of a statute, which went into effect
November 1st, 1879, Rev. Stat. of Missouri, of 1879, vol. 1,
p. 37, see. 242, giving power to an administrator to compound
-with a debtor, with the approbation of the judge of probate,
does not imply that the power did not eiist before without
such approbation. This transaction occurred before such enactment. An administrator has general power to dispose of
the personal effects of his intestate, 2 Williams on Exrs., 6th
Am. ed., p. 998; and to compound a debt, if it is for the beiiefit of the trust estate. 3 Id., p. 1900, and note g. And, even
when statutes exist providing for compromises with debtors
with the approval of a Probate Court, it is held that the right
to compromise which before existed is not taken away, but
may be exercised subject to the burden of showing that the
compromise was beneficial to the estate. TVymres ApgpeZ,
13 N. H. 18; Chouteau v. &ydan, 21 N. Y. 179; Chkdbou n
v. C'adbounw, 9 Allen, 173.
The contract made by the first administrator having given
to the attorneys a power coupled with an interest, the authority to compromise was not impaired by the death of the first
administrator, and his successor was bound by the contract.
Story on Agency, §§ 476, 477.
It is apparent, from the record, that Mr. Laurie continued to
be a copartner with Mr. Crews so far as this case was concerned. That being so, he had authority to make the compromise in question without the co-operation or consent of Mr.
Crews.
No error of law is found in the proceedings in the Circuit
Court, and its orders, made January 26th, 1880, and March
10th, 1880, are
Afflfm.

