OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

XIUPPENDORF v. HYDE & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
Submitted January 2d, 1884.-Deeided January 28th, 1884.
E-uity-- dIet

io---Offrs of the Court---Pat.

A bill filed on the equity side of the court to restrain or regulate judgments or
suits at law in the same court, and thereby prevent injustice or an inequitable advantage under mesne or final process, not being an original suit,
but ancillary and dependent, supplementary merely to an original suit out
of which it arose, can be maintained without reference to the citizenship
or residence of the parties. Freeman v. Howe, 24 How. 450, followed, and
the language of NELsoF, J., in the opinion of the court adopted.
The powers both of courts of equity and courts of law over their own procezs
to prevent abuse, oppression, and injustice are inherent and equally extensive and efficient: as is also their power to protect their own jurisdiction
and officers in the possession of property that is in the custody of the law.
When property in the possession of a third person claiming ownership is attached by a marshal on mesne process issuing out of a Circuit Court of the
United States as the property of a defendant, citizen of the same State as the
person claiming it, such person has no adequate remedy against the marshal
in the State court, and may seek redress in the Circuit Court having custody of the property by ancillary proceedings ; as, for instance, if the original proceeding is in equity, by a petition pro interesse suo, or by ancillary
bill, or by summary motion, according to circumstances ; or if it is at common law, by a summary motion or by a proceeding in the nature of an
interpleader ; or if proceedings authorized by statutes of the State in which
the cause is pending afford an adequate remedy, by adopting them as put
of the practice of the court.

In equity.--In September, 1882, two of the defendants, partners as Hyde & Brothers, brought an action at law in the CirCourt against Lewis C. Frey and Jacob C. Maag, partners
as Frey & Maag, to recover an amount alleged to be due for
goods and merchandise sold, and levied a writ of attachment
issued therein on a stock of goods in the city of Indianapolis,
as the property of Frey & Ifaag, which was in the possession
of the appellant, and of which, at that time, as he alleged, he
was owner. The property was appraised as required by the
statutes of Indiana, and its value returned at the sum of
$13,165.64. The goods were returned to the appellant on his

KRIPPENDORF v. HYDE.
Statement of Facts.

giving to the marshal a delivery bond, conditioned to properly
keep and take care of the property, and deliver the same to the
marshal on demand, or so much thereof as might be required
to be sold on execution to satisfy any judgment which might
be recovered against the defendants in the action, or to pay the
appraised value of the property, not exceeding the amount of
the judgment and costs. The appellant was made on his own
motion a party defendant to the suit in order to assert his title,
but on motion of the plaintiff, his name was stricken from the
record without prejudice to his right to enforce his claim in
some other form. Such further proceedings were then had,
that, as provided by the statute, a large number of the creditors of Frey & Maag came into the attachment suit for the purpose of obtaining judgments and participating in the distribution of the fund arisng from the sale of the attached property.
Judgment was subsequently rendered therein in favor of the
original plaintiffs, and of these several creditors respectively,
and it was ordered that the attached property be sold by the
marshal for the satisfaction thereof. The appellant, as required
by the condition of his bond, not being able to return the
speific property attached, paid to the marshal the full amount
of its appraised value. He thereupon, the money being in the
marshal's hands, undistributed, filed. his bill, to which all the
parties in the attachment suit and the marshal were made defendants, praying that the marshal be restrained from paying
the said fund, or any part thereof, to the creditors in the
attachment suit, and that the same be adjudged to belong to
the appellant, and paid to him accordingly.
It was alleged that all the attachment creditors were nonresidents of the State of Indiana; but it did not appear from
the record what was the citizenship of any of the parties to
the bill.
The Circuit Court dismissed the bill for want of equity, on
the ground that the complainant had a plain and adequate
remedy at law; from which decree an appeal was taken.
X. 1. 7. Bu

for appellant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Argument for Appellee.

.r. Le Wallace and Ar2. -4.W. Hatch for appellee.-Under
the statutes of the State of Indiana, which would control in
any action brought to recover the possession of the goods seized
by the marshal, Krippendorf could have obtained the specific
property and also damages for its detention. Rev. Stat. of
Indiana, 1881, § 1266. That such an action would lie, see
Drake on Attachment, § 340 ; Loutuin v. Fitzer, '78Ind.449.
Replevin was appellant's proper remedy. Still, in the abundance of legal redress, he is permitted a choice, and may now
maintain, upon the facts averred, an action in trespass against
the marshal for the wrongful seizure. There is no impediment
to such proceedings shown, and no claim in the bill or in
argument that the marshal is unable to respond in damages.
It seems to us not only that the legal remedy is adequate,
but that the relief at law is the very same as the relief
afforded by a court of equity. It is elementary that where
the legal remedy is adequate and certain, equity has no
jurisdiction. Appellant's counsel attempt to break. the force
of this conclusion by insisting that as the court of equity
only supplements the proceedings at law, the usual prerequisites of original jurisdiction need not exist. This is true
as applied to parties, but is far from true if made to govern
principles. We have selected from the vast number of cases
upon this subject those similar to that under consideration,
and we refer the court to such authorities with the conviction
that this subject is no longer a matter for controversy. .RI&
v. Crews, 2 Leigh (Va.), 576; Hamlton v. Skrewabury, 4 Randolph (Va.), 427; Bowyer v. Creigh, 3 Randolph (Va.), 25;
Allen v. Freeland,3 Randolph (Va.), 170; W7Uiman v. Williq,
51 Texas, 429 ; Henderson v. _fororill, 12 Texas, 1; David.o
v. 84eear, 15 Florida, 671 ; Akin v. -Davis, 14 Kansas, 143;
Baker v. R1inelrd, 11 W. Va. 238; Stilwell v. Oliver, 35
Arkansas, 184; Sheldo v. Stokes, 7 Stewart (N. J.), 87 ; Dawes
v. Taylor, 8 Stewart (N. J.), 40; Freeman v.Ebendorf,3
Histed Oh. (N. J.) 47T5, 655 ; Greenup v. Brown, Breese (ILL),
18 Illinois, 414; Winck's Appeal, 61
252; Coughron v. &Sift,
Penn. St. 424; Imlay v. Carpentier, 14 California, 173;
.Marky v. Rand, 12 California, 275; .Tohmon v. Bank, 21

KRIPPENDORF v. HYDE.
Opinion of the Court.

Connecticut, 148 ; WTatkim v. Logan, 3 T. B. Mon-oe (Ky.),
21; Bouldin~v. Alexander, 7 id. 425; Ha v. Davis, 5 J. J.
Marshall (Ky.), 290; Gurby v. Bel, 40 Georgia, 133; Xcfndoe
v. Hazeton, 19 Wisconsin, 567; -facy v. loyd, 23 Ind. 60;
Lewis v. Levy, 16 Maryland, 85; reeland v. 1eynolds, 16 Id.
416; Chwpell v. C, 18 Id. 513; B'amnmond v. St. Jon, 4
Yerger (Tenn.), 107; LDu _PTe v. Williams, 5 Jones Eq. (N.
C.) 96; Howell v. Howell, 5 Iredel Eq. (N. 0.) 258; Garstin
v. -AVpin, 1 Maddock Oh. 150. In Pennwck v. Coe, 23 How.
117,and inFTeemanv. Howe, above cited, the complainants had
equitable claims to the property, and there was thus no doubt
Vaztear CanaZ Comas to the jurisdiction. In Gue v. The Te
a court of
because
.pany, 24 How. 257, the relief was granted
law could not fully protect all interests. Mr. Justice Nelson did
not intend to make his remarks of universal application, out
had in mind only the case before him. This same comment
has been made upon .Teeman v. Howe, by this court, in Bwk
v. (olbath, 3 Wall 334, and Christmas v. Rmusell, 14 Wall.
69. In Buck v. Colhath, commenting upon what was said
of equitable proceedings in Freeman v. Howe, this court
said: "The proceeding here alluded to is one unusual in any
court, and is only to be resorted to in the federal courts, in
extraordinary cases where it is essential to prevent injustice by
an abuse of the process of the court, whick cannot otherwise
be remedied." Taking all these cases together, we see nothing
in them entrenching upoi our position. The law, as well setfled is, that to supplement proceedings at law, equity will only
interfere in proper cases for equitable relief; and the test is
whether the remedy at law is adequate and certain. That
Krippendorf upon the facts stated in his bill has such remedy
at law, is not an open question in this court. See Buck v.
"Oolath,above cited, and Bhare v. Doyle, 102 'U. S. 686.
M.

Jusnon M&mEws delivered the opinion of the court.

After reciting the facts in the language above stated, he
continued:
According to the law of Indiana, the giving of the delivery
bond did not divest the lien of the attachment upon the goods,

280.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court

which remained, in contemplation of law, in the possession of
the officer, Gas v. Williams, 46 Ind. 253; so that if the proceedings had been in the State court the appellant, while the
goods remained in specie, on demand and refusal of a return of
the property to him by the officer, might have maintained an
action of replevin on proof of title. Louthain v. .Fitzer, '8
Ind. 449.
Having disposed of the goods, so that he could not return
them in specie, it would seem that no action of replevin could
thereafter be brought, and, on general principles, he could not
set up his ownership as a defence to an action on the bo~id.
Drake on Attachment, § 340. Under the practice in Indiana
he would not be permitted to become a party to the suit in
.order to have his title there determined. Risher v. Gilpin, 29
Ind. 53. And, accordingly, in the attachment suit of Hyde
Brothers against Frey & NMaag, as stated in the bill, the appellant, having been at first made a party on his own motion, was
subsequently dismissed from it. Payment of the appraised
value of the attached property to the marshal, which, by the terms
of the delivery bond, he was bound to make, it can hardly be
insisted deprived him of his title to the goods and their proceeds.
Without giving the delivery bond, it is true, the owner could
have brought suit against the marshal for trespass, although
that would not in all cases furnish an adequate remedy by giving damages for the value of the property taken. WVatan v.
Sutherland, 5 Wall. 74.
The only legal remedy which can be said to be adequate for
the purpose of protecting and preserving his right to the possession of his property was an action of replevin. Of this
remedy at law in the State court he was deprived by the fact
that the proceedings in attachment were pending in a court of
the United States, because the property attached, being in the
hands of the marshal, is regarded as in the custody of the
court. This was the point decided in Freeman v. Howe, 24 How.
450, the doctrine of which must be considered as fully and firmly
established in this court. In meeting the objections made in
argument to the conclusion of the court in that case, Mr. Justice
Nelson, delivering its opinion, used the following language:

KRIPPENDORF v.

YDE.

Opinipn of the Court.

misapprehension under which the defendant in error
labors, and in which the court below fell, was in respect to the
appropriate remedy of the plaintiffs in the replevin suit for the
grievance complained of. It was supposed that they were utterly
remediless in the federal courts, inasmuch as both parties were
citizens of Massachusetts. But those familiar with the practice
of the federal courts have found no difficulty in applying a remedy,
and one much more effectual than replevin, and more consistent
with the order and harmony of judicial proceedings, as may be
seen by reference to the following cases : 23 How. 117 ; Pennock
et al. v. Coe; Robert Gue v. Yhe Tie Tater CanaZ Company,
24 How. 257 ; 12 Pet. 164 ; 8 id. 1 ; 5 Cranch, 288;
"The principle is that a bill filed on the equity side of the court
to restrain or regulate judgments or suits at law in the same
court, and thereby prevent injustice or an inequitable advantage
under mesne or final process, is not an original suit, but ancillary
and dependent, supplementary merely to an original suit out of
which it has arisen, and is maintained without reference t4 the
citizenship or residence of the parties."
"The case in 8 Pet. 1, which was among the first which
came before the court, deserves, perhaps, a word of explanation.
It would seem, from a remark in the opinion, that the power of the
court upon the bill was limited to a case between the parties .to
the original suit. This was probably not intended, as any party
may file the bill whose interests are affected by the suit at law."
ccAnother

It has been sometimes said that this statement was onter
dictum, and not to be treated as the law of the case; but it was,
in point of fact, a substantial part of the argument in support
of the judgment, and, on consideration, we feel bound to con-

fm it in substance as logically necessary to it. ForifweaTfm,
as that decision does, the exclusive right of the Circuit Court in
such a case to maintain the custody of property seized and held
under its process by its officers, and thus to take from owners,
wrongfully deprived of possession, the ordinary means of redress by suits for restitution in State courts, where any one
may sue, without regard to citizenship, it is but common justice
to furnish them with an equal and adequate remedy in the court
itself which maintains control of the property; and, as this may

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

not be done by original suits, on account of the nature of the
jurisdiction as limited by differences of citizenship, it can only
be accomplished by the exercise of the inherent and equitable
powers of the court in auxiliary and dependent proceedings
incidental to the cause in which the property is held, so as to
give to the claimant, from whose possession it has been taken,
the opportunity to assert and enforce his right. And this
jurisdiction is well defined by Mr. Justice Nelson, in the statement quoted, as arising out of the inherent power of every
court of justice to control its own process so as to prevent and
redress wrong.
This principle was illustrated and applied in the case of Bank
v. Turn~ug 16 Wall 190. There, under a statute of Virginia,
the claimant of property taken in execution upon a judgment
rendered against another, gave to the sheriff a suspending and
forthcoming bond, which stayed the sale and maintained his
possession of the property until the title could be determined
by a statutory interpleader. This issue having been properly
directed in the State court, between parties who were
citizens of different States, a petition was filed for its removal
to the Circuit Court of the United States, under the removal
act of March 2d, 1867. The order of removal was reversed by
this court on the ground that the suit "1
was merely auxiliary to
the original action, a graft upon it, and not an independent and
separate litigation;" that "it was provided to enable the court
to determine whether its process had, as was claimed, been
misapplied, and what right and justice required should be
done touching the property in the hands of its officers. It
was intended to enable .the court, the plaintiff in the original action, and the claimant to reach the final and proper
result by a processs at once speedy, informal, and inexpensive."
No one, even in equity, is entitled to be made or to become
a party to the suit unless he has an interest in its object, Calvert on Parties, 13; yet it is the common practice of the court
to permit strangers to the litigation, claiming an interest in its
subject-matter, to intervene on their own behalf to assert their
titles.

KRIPPENDORF v. HYDE.
Opinion of the Court.
"When any person," says Mr. Daniel, Chancery Practice, ch.
XXVL, § 7, p. 1057, "claims to be entitled to an estate or other
property sequestered, whether by mortgage or judgment, lease or
otherwise, or has a title paramount to the sequestration, he should
apply to the court to direct an inquiry whether the applicant has
any and what interest in the property sequestered. This inquiry
is called an examination pro interesse suo; and an order for such
an examination may be obtained by a party interested, as well
where the property consists of goods and chattels or personalty,
as where it is real estate. Thus, in .Martin v. Tpillis, 1 Fowl.
Ex. Pr. 160, a person claiming title to goods seized under a sequestration, obtained an order for an examination pro interesse
auo, and in the meantime that the goods might be restored to him
on his giving security."
The same practice prevails in cases where property is put
into the hands of a receiver. Daniel, Oh. Pr., ch. XXXTY,
§ 4, p. 1744. The grounds of this procedure are the duty of
the court to prevent its process from being abused to the injury
of third persons, and to protect its officers and its own custody
of property in their possession, so as to defend and preserve its
jurisdiction, for no one is allowed to question or disturb that
possession except by leave of the court.
So the equitable powers of courts of law over their own
process to prevent abuse, oppression, and injustice are inherent
and equally extensive and efficient, as is also their power to
protect their own jurisdiction and officers in the possession of
property that is in the custody of the law, Buck v. Cobath,
3 Wall. 334; Ifagan v. Iuc, 10lPet. 400; and when in the exercise of that power it becomes necessary to forbid to strangers
to the action the resort to the ordinary remedies of the law for
the restoration of property in that situation, as happens when
otherwise conflicts of jurisdiction must arise between courts of
the United States aid of the several States, the very circumstance appears which gives the party a title to an equitable
remedy, because he is deprived of a plain and adequate remedy
at law; and the question bf citizenship, which might become
material as an element of jurisdiction in a court of the United
States when the proceeding is pending in it, is obviated by

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

treating the intervention of the stranger to the action in his
own interest, as what MEr. Justice Story calls, in Clarke v. 2WaMwwson, 12 Pet. 164-172, a dependent bill.
In the original action of Hyde Brothers against Frey and
Maag, in which the attachment was issued and levied, the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court attached by reason of the'
citizenship of the parties. But the statute of Indiana granting
and regulating the process of attachment, provides, § 943 Rev.
Stat. of 1881, that after the institution of the suit, and at any
time before final judgment, any creditor of the defendant may
file and prove his claim, with the right to participate in the
distribution of the proceeds of the attached property. In the
present case that actually took place, and it is shown, on the
face of the bill, that a large number of persons, as to whom it
is not stated that they were citizens of other States, competent to bring an original action in the Circuit Court, and as to
whom it does affirmatively appear, that the judgments upon
their claims in their favor are less than the jurisdictional sum
-of $500, nevertheless, filed their claims, obtained judgments,
and will be entitled on distribution to divide with the plaintiff
and among themselves the money paid into court by the appellant. So that, unless he is allowed to intervene by his present bill to stay the distribution of the fund, which, by the
demurrer, is admitted to be his own, the anomaly will be presented, in judicial proceedings, of an award, dividing property
among claimants, from which the only person excluded is the
one whose sole and paramount title is confessed; and he will
be compelled to stand idly by to witness the dissipation of his
property into many unknown hands, by a court, to whose jurisdiction he has submitted himself from the beginning, and which
now remits him to an action for damages against its own officer
who has simply acted under its order.
This court has uniformly resisted the tendency to confuse
the boundaries of law and equity in its procedure, and maintained the distinction between the two systems, so deeply imbedded in our jurisprudence; and in the present instance, is not
to be considered as departing from the consistent course of
precedents in which that distinction has been maintained. The

KRIPPENDORF v. HYDE.
Opinion of the Court.

bill in this case is not be treated as an original bill in equity,
for, as such, it could not be maintained. It is altogether ancillary to the principal action at law in which the attachment
issued, and should be regarded as merely a petition in that
cause, or dependent upon it and connected with it, as a petition
pro interewse &uo,or of intervention in an equity or an admiralty suit, asserting a claim to property or a fund in court, the
subject of the litigation, which, owing to the peculiar relations
between the courts of the States and of the United States, is a
necessary resort to prevent a failure of justice, and furnishes in
such cases a certain, adequate, and complete remedy against
injurious abuses of the process of the court, by supplying a
means, in the principal suit, of trying the title to property in
the custody of the law.
The character of the bill as related to the principal case is
well explained in .Minnesota Company v. St. Paul Company, 2
Wall. 609-633, where it is stated,
"that the question is not whether the proceeding is supplemental
and ancillary, or is independent and original in the sense of the

rules of equity pleading, but whether it is supplemental and ancillary, or is to be considered entirely new and original, in the
sense which this court has sanctioned, with reference to the line
which divides the jurisdiction of the federl courts from that of
the State courts. No one, for instance, would hesitate to say,.
that according to the English chancery practice a bill to enjoin a
judgment at law is an original bill in the chancery sense of the
word. Yet, this court has decided many times that when a bill is
filed in the Circuit Court to enjoin a judgment of that court, it is
not to be considered as an original bill, but as a continuation of
the proceeding at law; so much so that the court will proceed in
the injunction suit without actual service of subpoena on the defendant, and though he be a citizen of another State, if he were a
party to the judgment."
And in speaking of the application of the principle to the
case then before it, the court, Mr. Justice Miller delivering its
opinion, continued:
"The case before us is analogous.

An unjust advantage has

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

been obtained by one party over another by a perversion and
abuse of the orders of the court, and the party injured comes now
to the same court to have this abuse corrected, and to carry into
effect the real intention and decree of the court, and that while
the property, which is the subject of the contest, is still within
the control of the court and subject to its order."
The question was discussed in 'Fan 3orden v. Yforton, 99
U. S. 378, where the court pointed out the mode of reconciling
the distinction between original legal and equitable rights and
remedies, as administered in the courts of the United States
and ancillary proceedings to restrain and control their process.
Referring to the statutory injunction given by the law of
Louisiana to restrain "the sheriff in the execution of a judgment" when "he has seized property not belonging to the defendant, and insists on selling the same, disregarding the opposition of him who alleges that he is the real owner," Mfr. Justice
Miller, delivering the opinion of the court, said:
"Now this obviously refers to the control of the court over its
own officer, in the execution of its own writs, and is as applicable
to other misconduct of that officer in the execution of his official
duties, as in cases of seizures of property not liable under an execution in his hands. The remedy needs no formal chancery proceeding, but a petition or motion, with notice to the sheriff, is not
only all that is required, but is the most speedy and appropriate
mode of obtaining relief. This relief does not depend upon any
inadequacy of an action for damages or by sequestration. It is a
short, summary proceeding before the court under whose authority the officer is acting, gives speedy relief, and is very analogous
to the statutory remedy given in many of the Western States in
similar cases to try the right of property at the instance of the
party whose property is wrongfully seized."
It is in this light, we think, that the court below should have
regarded the present bill, not as an original bill invoking the
general jurisdiction of the court in equity, but as an ancillary
and dependent bill, equivalent in effect and purpose to a petition in the attachment proceeding itself, incident to and dependent upon it.

KRIPPENDORF v. HYDE.
Opinion of the Court,.

The form of the proceeding, indeed, must be determined by
the circumstances of the case. If the original cause, in which
the process has issued or the property or fund is held, is in
equity, the intervention will be by petitionpro interewe mUO, or
by a more formal, but dependent bill in equity, if necessary.
Relief, either in a suit in equity, or an-action at law, may prop
erly be given, in some cases, in a summary way, by motion
merely, supported by affidavits. In actions at law, where
goods have been taken in execution after judgment, or upon
attachment before, a proceeding in the nature of an interpleader
might be appropriately ordered by the court, such as was
given in the English practice to the officer by the statute of 1
& 2 Will. 4, c. 58; 2 Lush's Pr. by Dixon, 777; and in that
the respective rights of the claimants to the property could
generally be tried as in an action at law by a jury, upon a
formal issue framed for that purpose, or with the consent of
the parties by the court; or, if the claim was such as that it
could be determined only upon principles of equity, as administered in courts of that general jurisdiction, it would be propgr
to provide relief upon a bill of that nature, filed for that purpose. If the statutes of the State contained provisions regulating trials of the right of property in such cases, it might be
most convenient to make them a part of the practice of the
court, as contemplated by % 914, 915, 916 of the Revised
Statutes. In Whatever form, however, the remedy is administered, whether according to a procedure in equity or at law,
the rights of the parties will be preserved and protected against
judicial error, and the final decree or judgment will be reviewable, by appeal or writ of error, according to the nature of the
case.
For the reasons given, we are of opinion that the Circuit
Court should have overruled the demurrer to the bill, and required the parties to try the issue tendered by the appellant.
The decree dismissing the bill is accordingly reversed, and the
cause remanded with direction to take such further proceeding
therein, in conformity with this opinion, as justice and equity
requireIt i8 accordingly8o ordered.

