CORKER v. JONES.
Syllabus.

L. R. 7 H. L. 744. See also, 1 Greenleaf on Evidence, ยง 250;
Black v. Holmes, 1 Fox & Smith, 28.
It makes no difference that there was evidence of the speaking of the same words to persons other than Mr. Cook, and that
the speaking of them to Mr. Cook was not the sole ground of
action or of recovery. The evidence was incompetent, and it
must be inferred that it affected the minds of the jury both on
the main issue and on the question of damages.
It results from these views that the judgment below cannot
be upheld, and that it must be reversed, and
The case be emanded to the Circuit Court, with direvtion to
set as&e the verdict and vacate the judgment and take u A
further proceedings as may be accordingto law and not inconitent witk thic opiniom

CORKER v. JONES, Executor, & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
Argued and Submitted January 18th, 21st, 1884.-Decided February 4th, 1884.

Georgia-Guardianand Ward.
A being executor of the estate of C and testamentar' guardian of D, minor
son of deceased, purchased on behalf of D, but with his own money, a parcel
of real estate of deceased which had been devised to another heir. While
D was still a minor a bill was filed in the State court of Georgia, where the
property was situated and the parties resided, in the name of D, suing by
his mother as next friend, praying to have the purchase set aside as to D,
and the estate decreed to be the individual property of A, anda final decree
to that effect was made and A went into possession. Subsequently D, by
his nextM
friend, filed a bill setting up title to the property, and praying to
have the cloud upon his title removed, and for an accounting: Held, That
the State court of Georgia bad jurisdiction to make the decree which it
made; that it was not voidable as to D; and that, notwithstanding the relations between the parties, th judgn'ent was conclusive in the absence of
an impeachment for unfairness and fraud.

r. Ienry B. Tompkins argued for appellants.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

XM.
m

?naU Hagner submitted on his brief for appellees.
JusTIoE MATrnws delivered the opinion of the court.

Malcolm D. Jones, of whom Francis A. Jones, the appellee,
is executor, in his lifetime was executor of the last will of Drury
Corker, deceased, and testamentary guardian of the person and
estate of the testator's son, Ernest D. Corker, the appellant, one
of the devisees, then a minor, who arrived at age since filing
the present bill. While acting as such, on July 24th, 1863,
MNalcolm D. Jones, as guardian, purchased a tract of land
known as the Gilstrop and Watson place, part of the estate
of Drury Corker, from the trustees of Mrs. S. C. Hart, a
daughter of the testator, to whom he had devised it, with
power to sell. The consideration paid was $15,600 in Confederate money, which was advanced by Malcolm D. Jones
from his own funds. The conveyance was to him as guardian
of the appellant, the latter being charged in account by the
guardian with the amount of the advance. In 1867, while
the appellant was still an infant about eleven years of age,
and living with his mother, a bill in equity was filed in the
Superior Court of Burke County, where they resided, a
court of general jurisdiction at law and in equity, in the name
of the appellant, suing by his mother and next friend, to which
Malcolm D. Jones was made defendant, praying for a rescission
of the transaction as between the guardian and ward, so that
the former should take the land and the latter be relieved from
the payment of the consideration. The pleadings in that case
are not exhibited in the present record, as it is stated, because
they have been lost or destroyed; but the matter was submitted
to a jury, who found that "it is to the interest of Ernest D.
Corker, the minor, under his circumstances, that said purchase
be rescinded and deed be cancelled and set aside as to said
Ernest D., leaving it to stand as against the makers and in favor
of said Malcolm D. individually; and that, if necessary, said
Ernest D. make and deliver a proper conveyance of said land
to said Malcolm D." And upon this verdict, on January
1st, 1868, it was by the court ordered and decreed "that said
deed be, and is hereby, set aside and cancelled as to said Ernest

CORKER v. JONES.
Opinion of the Court.

D. only, and that it stand good against the makers thereof, and
for the use and benefit of said Malcolm D. individually, and
said Ernest D. make any, all necessary, and proper conveyances
of the land referred to, to said Malcolm D.; that said Malcolm
D. also pay one-half of the costs of this proceeding, and said
Ernest D. the other half thereof."
Thereafter Malcolm D. Jones went into possession of the
land, claiming title thereto in his own right, and since his death
his executor, Francis A. Jones, one of the appellees, has sold
the same in parcels under judicial proceedings in the Superior
Court of Burke County, as the property of -Malcolm D. Jones,
deceased, to the several other appellees. These purchasers
claim to be protected as such against any equities of the appellant, but the latter insists that they had not acquired the legal
title nor fully paid the purchase money at the time he filed his
bill, and consequently are not innocent purchasers.
Without reference to that question, however, the appellant
claims that he has the legal estate in the land in controversy
by virtue of the deed to his guardian from the trustees of his,
sister, and that it was not divested by the decree of the Superior
Court of Burke County, of January 1st, 1868, for the reason
that that court had no jurisdiction in the case, and the proceedings and decree therein were coran nwzjudiae and void.
This is urged on the ground that the Court of Ordinary in
Georgia has jurisdiction, exclusive of the Superior Court, to
deal with the property of minors, and various provisions of the
Code of that State are cited in support of that proposition.
Among others, sec. 1837 provides that
"The guardian cannot borrow money and bind his ward therefor,
nor can he, by any contract other than those specifically allowed
by law, bind his ward's property or create any lien thereon."
It would be difficult under this section, or any others to be
found relating to the subject, to discover any authority for the
purchase by Jones, the guardian, of the real estate in controversy for his ward, on credit, advancing the money as a loan
for that purpose; and the question whether it was a transaction

'320

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

that should stand or be cancelled, as between guardian and
ward, was not one arising in the ordinary course of administration for settlement as a mere matter of account in the Court of
Ordinary, but, as we think, was one more appropriately: dealt
with in the more formal procedure of a court of general jurisdiction with equity powers. The question is 'not one relating
to the sale or disposition of any part of the ward's estate which
had come under the control of the guardian, but was whether,
under the circumstances, the purchase made by the guardian
should be treated as made for the benefit of his ward, or whether
its burdens and risk should be borne by him individually. It
was peculiarly a case for cognizance in equity, and the Superior
Court of Burke County, we think, had jurisdiction to make the
decree directing the title to remain in Malcolm D. Jones for his
,own use.
It is further 'urged, however, that the decree is voidable,
because it was taken against an infant, without the protection
of a guardian ad litm. If the infant had been defendant, the
objection could only be taken on appeal, or by bill of review, and
not collaterally; but the infant was plaintiff, and sued by his
next friend, which was proper, and there is no more ground for
saying that the decree was against the infant than in his favor.
He was relieved from the burden of the purchase, which was
the object of the suit.
But it is also claimed that the relation of the parties was such
that the guardian could not acquire an interest adverse to his
ward, and that the attempt to do so will convert him into a
trustee by construction. But the transaction was judicial, the
parties standing at arm's length as avowed litigants; the plaintiff being represented by his mother, appearing on the record
with him as his next friend, and the court deciding between
them. That judgment must be conclusive, unless it can be impeached for unfairness and fraud.
This charge is in fact made, it being alleged that the suit
was collusive. The only proof of this is, that the mother of
the infant agreed with the guardian that it was best to submit
the question of 'the purchase to the decision of the court. Their
co-operation in this is not sufficient, in our opinion, to raise the

EAST ST. LOUIS v. ZEBLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

suspicion of fraud. Outside of this circumstance there is no
proof.
It is finally alleged that, upon a settlement of accounts
between the guardian and ward, a larger amount should have
been found due to the latter than was awarded by the court
below. But the decree on that point is in conformity with the
evidence.
Wefind no error in the record, and the decree is affrmed.

EAST ST. LOUIS & THE TREASURER OF EAST
ST. LOUIS v. UTNITED STATES ex rel. ZEBLEY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted January 23d, 1884.-Decided February 4th, 1884.

Illinois Statute-M.funicipal Cororation-Taxaton.
The charter of East St. Louis limited the right of taxation for all
purposes to
one per centum per annum on the assessed value of all taxable property in
the city, and required the city council to levy a tax of three mius on the
dollar on each assessment for general purposes, and apply it to the interest and sinking fund on its bonded debt: Held, That the use of the
remaining seven-tenths was within the discretion of the municipal authorities, aud was not subject to judicial order in advance of an ascertained surplus.

.fr. ,.X. Free7s and .X&. B. IT Can y for plaintiffs in error.
.21r. T.

. -father for defendant in error.

JusnoEr
MATrHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.
The relator having recovered judgments in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of Illinois upon
bonds issued by the city of East St. Louis, a municipal corporation of that State, was awarded in this proceeding a peremptory
mandamus. The directiona of the judgment are as follows:
MR.

"That said defendant, the city of East St. Louis, do, through
its proper corporate authorities, levy and collect full one per cent.
voL. cx-21

