CLAFLIN v. COIMONWEALTH INSURANCE CO.

81

Syllabus.

CLAFLIN & Others v. COMMONWEALTH INSURANCE COMPANY.
SAME v. WESTERN ASSURANCE COMPANY.
SAME v. FRANKLIN INSURANCE COMPANY.
ALL: IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
Argued and submitted October 16th, December 17th, 18.-Decided January 14th, 1834.

.Evidence-Inurance--urisclidion--Partis-emovaI
of Causes-tatutes.
1. It appearing on examination of the record after argument that the jurisdiction of the court over the cause is in doubt, the court of its own motion
took notice of the question and ordered it argued.
2. § 1, ch. 137, act of March 3d, 1875, 18 Stat. 470, confers upon Circuit
Courts of the United States original jurisdiction in controversies between
citizens of different States, or citizens of a State and foreign States,
citizens or subjects, where the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of
costs, the sum of $500, and further provides as follows: "Nor shall any
Circuit or District Court have cognizance of any suit founded on contract in favor of an assignee, unless a suit might have been prosecuted
in such court to recover thereon if no assignment had been made,
except in cases of promissory notes, negotiable by the law merchant, and
bills of exchange." § 2 of that act authorizes the removal of similar
causes as to parties and amounts from State courts to Circuit Courts of
the United States, but without imposing the restriction as to assignees
and assignments. Held, That the restriction upon the commencement
of suits contained in § 1 does not apply to the removal of suits under

§ 2.
3. When this court has given a construction to relative provisions in different
parts of a statute, and Congress then makes a new enactment respecting
the same subject-matter, with provisions in different sections bearing like
relations to each other, and without indicating a purpose to vary from
that construction, the court is bound to construe the two provisions in
the different sections of the new statute in the same sense which, id
previous statutes, had uniformly been given to them, and not invent a
new application and relation of the two clauses.
4. A policy of insurance against loss by fire contained a clause to the effect
that in case of loss the assured should submit to an examination under
oath by the agent of the insurer, and that fraud or false swearing should
forfeit the policy. The assured, after loss, submitted to such examination, and made false answers under oath respecting the purchase and
payment of the goods assured. Although it appeared that the statevOL. cx-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.
ments were not made for the purpose of deceiving the insurer, but for
the purpose of covering up some false statements previously made to other
parties: Ned, That the motive which prompted them was immaterial,
since the questions related to the ownership and value of the goods, and
were material, and that the attempted fraud was a breach of the condition el the policy and a bar to recovery.

Suits on three policies of insurance made by the several defendants in favor of one Frances E. Barritt on a stock of goods,
and by her assigned to one Murphy with consent of defendants
after an alleged sale of the goods to him. After loss Murphy
assigned to the plaintiffs. The answers set up fraud in procuring insurance on the goods in excess of their value, and in
false representations as to their ownership; denied the injury
to the amount claimed; set forth that the respective policies
required the assured, in case of loss, to submit to examination
under oath, and that fraud or attempt at fraud by false statements in such examination should cause a forfeiture of all claims
under the policy; and averred that Murphy had been guilty of
making such false statements, and that the claims under the
policies respectively were forfeited. The plaintiffs were citizens
of New York. One of the defendants was a corporation created
under the laws of Massachusetts; one a corporation created
under the laws of the Dominion of Canada, and one a corporation created under the laws of Missouri.
The suits were begun in a State court of Minnesota, and
were removed thence on motion of the defendants to the Circuit
Court of the United States for that district. In each case
judgment was rendered for the defendant and a writ of error
sued out by the plaintiff. The errors assigned referred to the
matters set forth in the following extract from the record:
"These causes, having been duly ordered to be tried before
the same jury by the court, came on for trial before the Hon.
Samuel F. Miller and the Hon. Rensselaer R. Nelson, judges of

said court, presiding at said trial, at a general term thereof begun
and held at St. Paul, Minnesota, on the third Monday in June, A.D.
1880.

"The respective causes were brought by the plaintiffs on certain policies of insurance bearing date as follows : That of The

CLAFLIN v. COMMONWEALTH INSURANCE CO.

83

Statement of Facts.
Commonwealth Insurance Company of Boston, bearing date of
11th of January, 1877 ; that of The Western Assurance Company
of Toronto, Canada, bearing date of 27th of December, 1876 ; and
that of The Franklin Insurance Company of St. Louis, bearing date
of 29th of December, 1876, the two latter being for 85,000 each,
and the former for 82,500, insuring one Frances E. Barritt against
loss or damage by fire on her stock of dry goods or other merchandise pertaining to her business, contained in the three-storied
store, metal-roofed building, situated No. 37 East 3d street, St.
Paul, Minnesota, for a period of three months after their respective dates, with the condition that 835,000 other insurance shall be
allowed. The respective policies were assigned by Frances E.
Barritt, the assured, to one William Murphy on the 7th day of
February, 1877, with the consent and approval of the respective
companies.
"On the 25th day of February, 1877, said stock of goods was
damaged by fire to the amount of 811,804.72, as found and determined by the arbitrators appointed by the assured and the respective companies. The policy of The Western Assurance Company of Toronto, Canada, contained, among other things, the
folloing provision: ' The assured shall, if required, submit to an
examination or examinations under oath by any person appointed
by the company, and subscribe thereto when the same is reduced
to writing,' and also ' all fraud or attempt at fraud, by false swearing or otherwise, shall forfeit all claim on this company, and be a
perpetual bar to any recovery under this policy.'
"That of The Franklin Insurance Company of St. Louis
contained, among others, the following provision, viz.: 'And
the insured shall, if required, submit to an examination under
oath, by the agent or attorney of this company, and afiswer
all questions touching his, her, or their knowledge of anything
relating to such loss or damage, or to their claim thereupon, and
subscribe such examination, the same being reduced to writing ;'
and the further provision, to wit: 'All fraud or false swearing
shall cause a forfeiture of all claims on the insurers, and shall be
a full bar to all remedies against the insurer on the policy ; ' that
of the defendant, The Commonwealth Insurance Company of
Boston, contained, among others, the following provision, to wit:
' All fraud or attempt at fraud, by false swearing or otherwise,
shall cause a forfeiture of all claims on this company under this

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.
policy ;' and the further provision, viz. : ' The assured shall, if required, submit to an examination or examinations, under oath, by
any person appointed by the company, and subscribe to such examinations when reduced to writing.'
"Upon the trial of said causes there was evidence tending
to show that the respective defendants required the assured,
William Murphy, to appear before their appointed agent and submit to an examination under oath, and answer all questions
touching his knowledge of anything relating to such loss or
damage and his claim thereupon, and to subscribe such exaiiination, the same being reduced to writing, which the said Murphy
did, as required, and that upon said examination the question of
the ownership of said goods by said Murphy was made by the
defendants, and said Murphy examined at length upon the
same, and he answered certain questions relating to the manner
in which he paid one Frances E. Barritt, for said stock at the
time of his alleged purchase thereof falsely, and there was evidence tending to show that he answered thus with no purpose
to deceive and defraud the insurance companies, but for the purpose of showing himself, upon the examination, consistent with a
statement that he had made about it a day or two subsequent to
the purchase of said stock to R. G. Dunn & Co.'s commercial
agency at St. Paul, Minnesota, with a view of obtaining a large
commercial credit in eastern cities. There was evidence tending to
show that on the 9th day of February, 1877, said William Murphy
went to said agency and reported that he had bought the stock of
Frances E. Barritt for $35,484.20 ; that he had paid for the same
in cash and securities; and plaintiffs claimed that if the false
statements- were made to the agents of the insurance company
upon examination, even though made upon a material question,
without intent to deceive or defraud the insurance companies, it
would not prevent a recovery upon the policies, and requested the
court upon that point to charge as follows:
"' If you find from the evidence that any incorrect statements
made by William Murphy upon his examination were made for
the purpose of protecting himself against the statements made by
him to the commercial agency for the purpose of obtaining more
credit than he was actually entitled to, and not for the purpose
of deceiving and defrauding the defendants, then such statements
constitute no defence to this action,' and also, 'No false state-

CLAFLIN v. COMMONWEALTH INSURANCE CO.

85

Statement of Facts.
ments made by Murphy on his examination, under oath or otherwise, constitute a defence to this action, unless the same were
made upon material issues between him and the defendants, and
unless you are satisfied from the evidence that Mr. Murphy made
them knowingly -and wilfully, with intent thereby to deceive and
defraud the defendants.'
"The court (his honor Judge Miller addressing the jury) refused to give said instructions, but told the jury in its charge that
the said questions relating to the manner in which Mr. Murphy
paid said Frances E. Barritt for said stock at the time of his
alleged purchase thereof were upon a material point, upon which
the defendants had a right to interrogate Mr. Murphy, and were
material questions, to which they had a right to true answers from
Miurphy in said examinations, and upon the point in controversy
upon which the said instructions were asked, charged the jury as
follows, to wit: ' It is said here, and the point is urged with a
good deal of force, that unless Mr. Murphy made these false statements, if they were false, and it is conceded that they were false,
with the intent to deceive and defraud these corporations, and if
he made them with the intent to deceive and defraud some one
else, that it is immaterial to this issue. I don't think that is the
law. I don't think it was necessary in order to avoid the policy
that the statements by Mr. Murphy should have been made solely,
or even partly, with a view to get money wrongfully out of the
companies ; however, that is a point I wish to draw your attention
to. If these statements had been wholly immaterial, that doctrine
may be right; if it was a matter that the company had no right
to inquire into or interrogate him about, if he did swear falsely
and intended to deceive some one else, that does not interfere
with the policy; but these companies had a right to have from
him the truth about every matter that was material as evidence
to show whether he owned these goods or not ; they had a right
to have the truth from him, whatever his intentions might have
been, that is, as far as the truth was material ; and so far as his
testimony before the notary had a tendency to mislead the companies on an important matter, it was false swearing and false
testimony within the meaning of the policy, and would avoid the
policy. If he stated that which was intended for their action,
and which would probably influence their action, and these statements were false, then he swore falsely within the meaning of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.
policy, though he didn't intend to cheat them, but intended to
cheat somebody else, for, without looking to his motives, the
company had a riglit to an honest statement from him to all
questions that went to show whether he was the owner of these
goods or not.'
"To which refusals to charge as requested, and to said charge
as given, plaintiffs' counsel thereupon duly excepted, and, after
the rendition of the verdict for the defendants, moved for a new
trial on account thereof, and said motion was duly argued by
John B. Sanborn, Esq., counsel for the plaintiffs, and Cushman K.
Davis, Esq., counsel for the defendants, and after due consideration thereof the court denied the motion, and upon the question as
to whether said instructions should be given to the jury as requested, or the jury instructed as in the said charge of the court,
the opinions of the said judges were opposed.
"Whereupon, on motion of the plaintiffs H. B. Claflin & Co.,
by counsel, that the points on which the disagreement hath happened may, during the term, be stated under the direction of the
judges, and certified under the seal of the court to the Supreme
Court to be finally decided,
"It is ordered that the foregoing state of the evidence and
cases, and the questions on which the disagreement of opinion
hath happened, which is made under the direction of the judges,
be certified according to the request of the plaintiffs, by their
counsel, and the law in that case made and provided."
The question raised by the assignment of errors was argued
on the 16th of October, 1883, and on" the 5th of the following
November Mn. CHIEF JUSTICE WA=r announced as follows:
These suits were begun in a State court of Minnesota, by
the present plaintiffs in error, citizens of New York, against
the several defendants, corporations of Massachusetts, Canada,
and Missouri, respectively, upon policies of fire insurance issued
to Frances E. Barritt, and by her assigned, with the consent
of the companies, to William Murphy. After a loss, Murphy
assigned his claims against the several companies under the
policies to the plaintiffs. The suits were removed by the defendants to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Minnesota. The record shows sufficiently that the

CLAFLIN v. COMMONWEALTH INSULRANCE CO.

87

Opinion of the Court.
plaintiffs and defendants were citizens of different States, but
the citizenship of Murphy, the assignor of the plaintiffs, is
nowhere stated. The question is therefore presented, whether
the Circuit Court had jurisdiction of the suits. This question
was not alluded to by counsel either in their oral or written
arguments. As it is one we do not feel authorized to overlook,
counsel will be heard upon it either orally, or by printed arguments, as may best suit their convenience, at any time they may
desire on or before the third Monday in December next.
Each party then filed a brief on the question of jurisdiction,
and the cause was submitted.
.1r. John B. Sanbomrn, and X..
tiffs in error.

IV ff. Sanborn, for plain-

Xr. George B. Young, for the several defendants in error.
MR. JVsTicE MATTHEws delivered the opinion of the court.
These actions were tried in the court below at the same time,
before the same jury, and, by stipulation of parties, were heard
in this court upon one record, the issues and questions in them
respectively being the same.
They were origifially commenced in the District Court of
the State of Minnesota for the County of Ramsey, the plaintiffs in error being plaintiffs below. The suits were founded on
policies of insurance against fire issued by the several defendants upon a stock of dry goods in St. Paul to Frances E. Barritt, who having sold the property insured to William Murphy,
assigned to him, for his benefit, the several policies of insurance with the assent of the insurance companies, the defendants. After the loss, Murphy assigned the policies of insurance
and his claims under the same, for value, to the plaintiffs in
error, who brought suit thereon, February 11th, 1878. On
March tth, 1878, the several defendants filed petitions for the
removal of the causes to the Circuit Court of the United States,
alleging that the plaintiffs were citizens of the State of New
York, and the defendants, respectively, citizens of Massachusetts, or Missouri, or aliens, subjects of Great Britain, in the
Dominion of Canada, being corporations created by the laws

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

of those governments respectively. The record does not show
anything respecting the citizenship of Murphy, the plaintiffs'
assignor, and it does not appear, therefore, whether, in case
the assignment had not been made, he could have brought suit
upon the policies of insurance against the defendants in the
Circuit Court of the United States.
No question concerning the jurisdiction of that court was
made by counsel, either on the trial or in this court; but, after
having been argued here at the bar on the merits, the doubt
upon the right of the court below to entertain jurisdiction arose
so seriously as in our opinion to require argument upon the
point. That has now been submitted and considered, the conclusion we have reached requiring an affirmance of the jurisdiction.
The question is whether, under the second section of the act
of March 3d, 1875, 18 Stat. 470, a suit of a civil nature, brought
in a State court, where the matter in dispute exceeds the sum
or value of $500, and in which there is a controversy between
citizens of different States, or between citizens of a State and
foreign States, citizens, or subjects, may be removed into the
Circuit Court, which suit, because it is founded on a contract
in favor of an assignee, could not have been brought in the
Circuit Court if no assignment had been made, not being the
case of a promissory note, negotiable by the law merchant, or
bf a bill of exchange. That section of the act is confined to
the subject of removals of suits from the State to the Circuit
Courts, and expressly provides that where there is a controversy between citizens of different States, or between citizens
of a State and aliens, the suit in which it arises may be removed by either party; while the first section, providing that
the Circuit Courts shall have original cognizance of the same
character of cases, concurrent with the courts of the several
States, nevertheless declares that they shall not "have cognizance of any suit founded on contract in favor of an assignee,
unless a suit might have been prosecuted in such court to recover thereon if no assignment had been made, except in cases
of promissory notes negotiable by the law merchant, and bills
of exchange."

CLAFLIN v. COMIM1ONWEALTH INSURALNCE CO.

89

Opinion of the Court.
The exception out of the jurisdiction, as to suits begun in the
Circuit Courts, contained in this clause, does not, by its terms,
nor by the immediate context, apply to suits commenced in
State courts and afterwards removed to the Circuit Courts;
but it is argued that it must apply from the reason and necessity of the case. The ground of this argument is that no
reason can be assigned for limiting the jurisdiction in suits first
brought in the Circuit Courts, which does not apply equally
to those removed into them from State courts; and that if the
limitation is not applied to the latter the effect will be thereby
to remove it from the former, by enabling parties, forbidden
to commence their actions in the Circuit Court, to transfer
them at will to that court, after first formally bringing them
in a State court. Such, indeed, seems to be the result necessarily to be anticipated from this construction of the act, and
the argument, a&inconvenienti,must be admitted to be cogent.
An attempt to meet it is.made by seeking to limit, by construction, the right of removal given by the second section to
both parties, without qualification, to the defendant only in
cases where, if exercised by the plaintiff, it would create jurisdiction in the Circuit Court in favor of an assignee whose
assignor could not have sued in that court originally. This
proposed construction is based upon the words of the clause in
the first section of the act which forbids the Circuit Court to
take cognizance of any suit founded on contract in favor of an
assignee, which, it is argued, may be taken to mean that when
the jurisdiction is invoked by the defendant, by a removal from
the State court, it cannot be deemed to be exerted in favor of
the assignee, but rather in favor of the adverse party. But
this, we think, is a refinement upon the language of the clause
not justified by its natural import, nor by admitted rules of interpretation. The words "in favor of an assignee" were evidently used, not to distinguish between the plaintiff and the
defendant in the suit, but between the assignee and his assignor,
so as not to give the favor to the former of bringing a suit
which was denied to the latter.
The question, however, we think, is satisfactorily answered
by recurring to the state of the law as it existed under the Ju-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

diciary Act of 1789, 1 Stat. 78, until the passage of the act of
MNarch 3d, 1875.
The 11th section of the Judiciary Act corresponds to the 1st
section of the act of 1875, describing in similar terms the character of the suits of which the Circuit Courts should have
original cognizance, and containing a similar exception out of
that jurisdiction of suits "to recover the contents of any promissory note or other chose in action in favor of an assignee, unless
a suit might have been prosecuted in such court to recover
the said contents, if no assignment had been made, except in
cases of foreign bills of exchange."
The 12th section of the act of 1789 corresponds to the second
section of the act of 1875, limiting, however, the right to remove a suit begun in a State court to the defendant alone,
where he is an alien, or a citizen of a State other than that
where the suit has been brought, and of which the plaintiff is
a citizen.
It will be seen, therefore, on a comparison of the two statutes, that the chief differences between them are:
1. That the act of 1875 enlarges the original jurisdiction of
Circuit Courts, based on the citizenship of the parties, to all
cases of controversy between citizens of different States, and
between citizens of a State and aliens, retaining substantially
the same exception as to suits upon contracts brought by an
assignee, when the assignee could not have sued in the Circuit
Court, but not including negotiable paper; and,
2. That the act of 1875 gives to either party the right of
removal from a State court to the Circuit Court, instead of
confining.it to the defendant.
The exception out of the original jurisdiction, as to assignees
of non-negotiable contracts, occupies in both statutes the same
relative position, qualifying the provisions of the section in
which it is contained, as to suits commenced in the Circuit
Court, and not being found in, nor necessarily connected with,
that regulating the removal of suits from the State courts.
Under the Judiciary Act of 1789 the question was several
times presented to this court for decision, whether the exceptions in the 11th section of the act applied to the right of re-

CLAFLIN v. COMMONWEALTH INSURANCE CO.

91

Opinion of the Court.
moval givon in the 12th section, and was uniformly answered
in the negative. The very question arose directly in Green v.
Custard, 23 How. 484. Mr. Justice Grier, delivering the
opinion of the court, said:
"If Green had been a citizen of Texas, and Custard had claimed
a right as indorsee of a citizen of Texas to bring his suit in the
courts of the United States, because he (Custard) was a citizen of
another State, the case would have occurred which is included in
the proviso to the 11th section of the act, which restrains the jurisdiction of the court. But the United States court had jurisdiction
of this case by virtue of the 12th section. It is a right plainly
conferred on Green, a citizen of Massachusetts, when sued by a
citizen of Texas in a State court of Texas, no matter what the
cause of action may be, provided it demand over five hundred
dollars. The exception of the llth section could have no possible
application to the case."
The same conclusion was reached in Bushinell v. Kennedy,
9 Wall. 387, in which, however, the prior decision in Greem v.
Custarddoes not appear to have been mentioned by counsel or
court.
This was the established law at the time of the passage of
the act of March 2d, 1867, 14 Stat. 558, known as the Local
Prejudice Removal Act, which for the first time conferred upon
a plaintiff as well as the defendant the right to remove a suit
brought by him in a State court, when the controversy was
between a citizen of the State where the suit was brought and
a citizen of another State, upon making and filing an affidavit
that he had reason to and did believe that, from prejudice or
local influence, he would not be able to obtain justice in such:
State court. The case of the City of La-xington v. Butler, 14
Wall. 282, was removed by the plaintiff in the action, under
this act, from the State court to the Circuit Court. The question of jurisdiction was raised on the ground that the suit,
which was founded on interest coupons attached to bonds
issued by the city of Lexington and payable to bearer, could
not have been brought in the Circuit Court on account of the
restriction contained in the 11th section of the Judiciary Act.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

It was decided, however, that the case was not within that
exception-the holder of such an instrument not being an
assignee within the meaning of the act. But the court went
further, and, speaking through Mr. Justice Clifford, said:
"Suppose, however, the rule is otherwise, still the objection
must be overruled, as the suit was not originally commenced in
the Circuit Court. Suits may properly be removed from a State
court into the Circuit Court in cases where the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court, if the suit had been originally commenced there,
could not have been sustained, as the twelfth section of the Judiciary Act does not contain any such restriction as that contained
in the eleventh section of the act defining the original jurisdiction
of the Circuit Courts. Since the decision in the case of Bushnell
v. Kennedy, 9 Wall. 387, all doubt upon the subject is removed,
as it is there expressly determined that the restriction incorporated in the eleventh section of the Judiciary Act has no application to cases removed into the Circuit Court from a State court,
and it is quite clear that the same rule must be applied in the construction of the subsequent acts of Congress extending that privilege to other suitors not embraced in the twelfth section of the
Judiciary Act."

By this construction of the act of 1867 it was placed within
the power of a plaintiff, on filing the requisite affidavit, to
transfer from the State court to the Circuit Court a suit which
'he could not have commenced in it; the precise objection which
is made to the construction now given to the second section of
the act of 1875.
It was in contemplation of these previous statutes, and of
the judicial decisions construing them, that Congress passed the
act of 1875, giving to plaintiffs as well as defendants unrestrained liberty to remove the cases specified in the second
section from a State court to a Circuit Court, and we are
bound to presume in full view and upon consideration of the
very inconveniences which are now relied on as the ground for
limiting the right of removal by force of the restrictive clauses
in the first section of the act.
In our opinion this is not admissible. We are bound to take

CLAFLIN v. COMMONWEALTH INSURANCE CO.

93

Opinion of the Court.
the words of the law in their usual, ordinary, literal meaning,
and to construe the two provisions in the different sections in
the same sense which, in previous statutes, had uniformly been
given to them, and not invent a new application and relation
of the two clauses without any indication whatever of any intention on the part of Congress to that effect.
It was, perhaps, with foresight of possible practical inconveniences to result from the extension of the right of removal
effected by the act of 1875, and in order to furnish means for
preventing evasions of the limits of the jurisdiction of the
courts of the United States under the forms of the law, that in
the fifth section of the act it was provided, that if "it shall
appear to the satisfaction of said Circuit Court, at any time
after such suit has been brought or removed thereto, that such
suit does not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within the jurisdiction of said Circuit Court, or
that the parties to said suit have been improperly or collusively
made or joined, either as plaintiffs or defendants, for the purpose of creating a case cognizable or removable under this act,
the said Circuit Court shall proceed no further therein, but shall
dismiss the suit or remand it to the court from which it was
removed, as justice may require." However that may be, we
cannot, on the mere ground of a policy of convenience, change
the settled rules of construction according to which for so long
a period these and similar statutes have been administered.
The question of jurisdiction having been thus answered in
the affirmative, it becomes necessary to consider the errors assigned upon the rulings of the court at the trial. These appear from a bill of exceptions and a certificate of division of
opinion between the judges before whom the trial was had,
and which, to understand the exceptions, it is necessary to set
out in full. It is as follows:
[The learned justice here recited the extract from the record
quoted above, and continued:]
It was set out in the answer and relied on as a defence that
the policy of original insurance made to Frances E. Barritt
had been fraudulently procured for her by one.Johnson upon
false representations, greatly overvaluing the stock insured;

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

that Murphy received the assignment of the stock and policy
with knowledge of the fraud, and that the pretended sale to
him by Mrs. Barritt was without consideration and merely
colorable and fictitious; that Murphy consequently never acquired or had any insurable interest in the stock and property
insured; that after the fire, Murphy, in making proof of loss,
stated under oath that the actual cash value of the property
insured, at the time of the fire, amounted to $35,491.61, and
that same belonged to him; that the property insured was injured'to the amount of $26,827.06, and that of said amount
$6,463.39 was the cost and value of goods totally destroyed,
and $20,360.67 was the amount of the loss on that part of
the stock damaged but not destroyed; whereas in truth and in
fact the cash value of the goods insured, at the time of the fire,
did not exceed $18,000, and the total amount of the loss and
damage thereto by fire did not exceed $5,000, and that said
goods did not belong to Murphy, as he well knew:
"That thereafter, the said Murphy was examined under oath,
at the city of St. Paul, by an agent of the defendant, as provided in said policy, before J. D. O'Brien, Esq., and before R. B.
Galusha, Esq., who were then and there respectively notaries public within and for the county of Ramsey, and in such examination the said Murphy did swear that he had purchased said stock
from said Barritt, and that he was the sole owner thereof, and
that no other person had any interest therein, and that he had
fully paid for the same, each and every of which statements as to
said purchase, ownership, interest, payment, and the manner

thereof, were wholly false, as said Murphy well knew."
It is quite obvious that upon the issues, as made in the pleadings and actually tried, it was material to show what title
and interest Murphy had at the time of the loss in the property
insured. If he had no insurable interest, that certainly would
have been a defence. The object of the provisions in the policies of insurance, requiring the assured to submit himself to
an examination under oath, to be reduced to writing, was to
enable the company to possess itself of all knowledge, and all
information as to other sources and means of knowledge, in

CLAFLIN v. COM3MONWEALTH INSURANCE CO.

95

Opinion of the Cour.
regard to the facts, material to their rights, to enable them to
decide upon their obligations, and to protect them against false
claims. And every interrogatory that was relevant and pertinent in such an examination was material, in the sense that a
true answer to it was of the substance of the obligation of the
assured. A false answer as to any matter of fact material to
the inquiry, knowingly and wilfully made, with intent to deceive the insurer, would be fraudulent. If it accomplished its
result, it would be a fraud effected; if it failed, it would be a
fraud attempted. And if the matter were material and the
statement false, to the knowledge of the party making it, and
wilfully made, the intention to deceive the insurer would be
necessarily implied, for the law presumes every man to intend
the natural consequences of his acts. No one can be permitted to say, in respect to his own statements upon a material matter, that he did not expect to be believed; and if
they are knowingly false, and wilfully made, the fact that they
are material is proof of an attempted fraud, because their materiality, in the eye of the law, consists in their tendency to influence the conduct of the party who has an interest in them,
and to whom they are addressed. "Fraud," said Mr. Justice
Catron, in Lord v. Goddard, 13 How. 198, "means an intention to deceive." "Where one," said Shipley, Ch. J., in Hamrnatt v. Emerson, 27 Maine, 308-326, "has made a false representation, knowing it to be false, the law infers that he did
so with an intention to deceive." "If a person tells a falsehood, the natural and obvious consequence of which, if acted
on, is injury to another, that is fraud in law." Bosanquet, J.,
in Foster v. Cares,7 Bing. 105; Polhill -% Walter, 3 Barn.
& Ad. 114; Sleeper v. lksuramwe Company, 56 N. H. 401;
Leack v. Republic insurance Corapany, 58 N. H. 245.
An attempt is made by counsel for the plaintiffs in error to
distinguish between matters that are material only as evidence
and matters material to the contract and liability of the defendants in error thereunder, and in argument the distinction
is illustrated by the following statement:
"Where the question is as to the extent of the loss, and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

assured knowingly exaggerates his loss, and makes false statements concerning the same, his conduct must of necessity be held
fraudulent, for he invites the company to take a false position, to
assume new and unjust obligations, to pay a loss that has not
been sustained and does not exist, to do that which will prejudice
and damage the company. But if the assured had made a true
statement of his actual loss, and then answered falsely, for personal reasons, as to the parties from whom he had purchased the
goods, or the value of those purchased from a certain house, then
there could be no fraud, because there could be no prejudice or
damage. The questions would be material as evidence, but not
material as to the rights and liabilities of the company."
But this position is untenable. The fact whether Murphy
had an insurable interest in the merchandise covered by the
policy was directly in issue between the parties. By the terms
of the contract he was bound to answer truly every question
put to him that was relevant to that inquiry. His answer to
every question pertinent to that point was material, and made
so by the contract, and because it was material as evidence; so
that every false statement on that subject, knowingly made,
was intended to deceive and was fraudulent.
And it does not detract from this conclusion to suppose
that the purpose of Murphy in making these false statements
was not to deceive and defraud the companies, as is stated in
the bill of exceptions and certificate, but for the purpose of
preventing an exposure of the false statement previously made
to the commercial agency in order to enhance his credit. The
meaning of that we take to be simply this: that his motive for
repeating the false statements to the insurance companies was
to protect his own reputation for veracity, and that he would
not have made them but for that cause. But what is that but
that he was induced to make statements, known to be false,
intended to deceive the insurance companies, lest they might
discover, and others through them, the falsity of his previous
statements; in other words, that he attempted, by means of a
fraud upon.the companies, to protect his reputation and credit?
In any view, there was a fraud attempted upon the insurers;

HILTON v. MERRITT.
Syllabus.

and it is not lessened because the motive that induced it was
something in addition to the possible injury to them that it
might work. The supposition proceeds upon the very ground
of the false statement of a material matter, knowingly and
wilfully made, with the intent to deceive ihe defendants in
error; and it is no palliation of the fraud that Murphy did not
mean thereby to prejudice them, but merely to promote his
own personal interest in a matter not involved in the contract
with them. By that contract the companies were entitled to
know from him all the circumstances of his purchase of the
property insured, including the amount of the price- paid and
in what manner payment was made; and false statements,
wilfully made under oath, intended to conceal the truth on
these points, constituted an attempted fraud by false swearing
which was a breach of the conditions of the policy, and constituted a bar to the recovery of the insurance.
Such we understand to be the precise effect of the rulings of
the justice presiding at the trial of the case in the court below,
in refusing the requests to instruct the jury as asked by the
plaintiffs in error, and in giving the instructions contained in
the charge excepted to; and, finding no error in them,
The Judgment is cafflrmed.

HILTON & Another v. MERRITT, Collector.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUT COURT OF THE UNWED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued December 17th and 18th, 1883.-Decided January 14th, 1884.

Customas Duties.
1. The valuation of merchandise made by customs officers, under the statutes,
for the purpose of levying duties thereon, is, in the absence of fraud on
the part of the officers, conclusive on the importer.
2. §§ 2931, 3011, Rev. Stat., which give the right of appeal to the Secretary of
the Treasury, when duties are alleged to have been illegally or erroneously
exacted, and the right of trial by jury in case of adverse decision by the
Secretary of the Treasury, do not relate to alleged errors in the appraisement of goods, but to the rate and amount of duties imposed upon them
after appraisement.
voL. cx-7

