OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

REDFIELD, Executrix, v. YSTALYFERA IRON COMPANTY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Submitted January 4th, 184.-Decided January 21st, 1834.
ractice.
Dan ages-Error-Interest-Lache.s-P
1. A verdict was taken, subject to the opinion of the court, upon a case to be
made, with liberty to either party to turn the case into a bill of exceptions. A case was made setting forth the entire evidence at the trial,
but it was not made an agreed statement of facts, nor were exceptions
taken, nor was any finding of facts made: Held, That there was no basis
for the assignment of errors.
2. A plaintiff obtained a verdict against the United States in the court below,
subject to the opinion of the court on a case to be made, and then rested
nearly thirty years before entry of judgment: Held, That under these
circumstances interest should run only from the entry of the judgment.
3. Interest is recoverable of right when it is reserved in the contract; but
when it is given as damages, it is within the discretion of the court to
allow or disallow it, and it will not be allowed if the plaintiff has been
guilty of laches in unreasonably delaying the prosecution of his claim.

.AIr. Solicitor-GeneraZfor plaintiffs in error.
.Xt. A. W. Gr wold for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTCE MLATTHEws delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was begun on December 30th, 185-4, in the
Supreme Court of New York by the defendant in error to recover from the collector of the port of N ew York money
alleged to have been illegally exacted by him for customs dues
and paid under protest. It was removed by certiorari to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New York, in which, on December 15th, 1856, the testimony
having been heard, it appears by the record that:
"By direction of the court and consent of counsel, the jury find

a verdict for the plaintiff in the sum of fifteen hundred dollars, subject to the opinion of the court upon a case to be made, with liberty to either party to turn the same into a bill of exceptions, and
subject to adjustment at the custom house as to the amount."

REDFIELD v. YSTALYFERA IRON COMPANY. 175
Opinion of the Court.
The next step in the cause taken in court was on June 9th,
1882, when, on m6tion of the plaintiffs' attorney, the plaintiffs
in error, as personal representatives of the defendant, who had
died, were made parties.
And then, on January 19th, 1883, it was ordered that the
case, of which it appeared a copy had been served by the plaintiffs' attorney on the United States attorney in January, 1851,
be considered as having been then agreed upon and settled
between the parties, and that the same be ffied in the office of
the clerk as part of the record in the case.
On April 30th, 1883, the cause was heard upon that case
made and served pursuant to the verdict of December 16th,
1856, and it was thereupon ordered that judgment be entered
on the verdict for the sum of $715.7to, with interest thereon
from December 8th, 1854, and for costs; and on August 22d,
1883, a formal judgment was entered against the plaintiffs in
error for the said sum and interest as aforesaid, amounting to
$2,128.16 damages, besides costs. To reverse that judgment
this writ of error is prosecuted..
The case made, which by the terms of the verdict either
party was at liberty to turn into a bill of exceptions, sets forth
the entire evidence adduced at the trial, but is not an agreed
statement of facts, nor a special verdict, nor a finding of facts
by the court, and contains no exceptions. It cannot, therefore,
be treated as the basis for any assignment of errors, and the
questions argued, as if arising thereon, must be dismissed without further consideration.
We are of opinion, however, that the court erred in allowing
interest from December 8th, 1854, until the entry of judgment
on August 22d, 1883-a period of nearly twenty-nine yearsupon the amount found due to the defendant in error.
The delay in the prosecution of the suit must be attributed
to the plaintiff below. It was the actor, and had come into
court for the purpose of asserting and enforcing a right, which
the defendant below contested and denied, and which it was
necessary to determine and ascertain. The verdict was purely
formal, and was entered by consent, after the hearing of the
evidence, merely as a basis for further proceedings, which were

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court

to consist in an adjudication by the court of the questions of
fact and law arising upon the testimony, and liquidation of the
amount to be recovered in case the legal liability was found to
exist. No step for this purpose was taken by the plaintiff
after January, 1857, when he served upon the defendant the
case made, until January, 1883, when he procured the order to
bring into court and file it, a period of twenty-six years. In
the meantime the suit had abated by the death of the defendant, having been revived in the names of his personal representatives in June, 1882, after the lapse of what period, since the
defendant's death, the record does not disclose.
This delay in prosecution would certainly have justified the
court in dismissing the action on its own motion. So far as
the rights of third parties might have been affected by it, as a
lis endemns, it had lost its force without such a dismissal, for,
as to innocent strangers, acquiring interests to be affected by
it, it would have been treated as abandoned and obsolete. Fox
v. Reeder, 28 Ohio State, 181. There is nothing in the record,
by which alone we must be governed, to show any reasonable
excuse for the unusual and extraordinary delay in the progress
of the suit; and that delay, as we have said, must be attributed
to the defendant in error.
Interest is given on money demands as damages for delay in
payment, being just compensation to the plaintiff for a default
on the part of his debtor. Where it is reserved expressly in
the contract, or is implied by the nature of the promise, it becomes part of the debt, and is recoverable as of right; but
when it is given as damages, it is often matter of discretion.
In cases like the present, of recoveries for excessive duties paid
under protest, it was held in Erskine v. Vlan Arsdale, 15 Wal.
75, that the jury might add interest, the plaintiff ordinarily
being entitled to it from the time of the illegal exaction. But
where interest is recoverable, not as part of the contract, but
by way of damages, if the plaintiff has been guilty of laches in
unreasonably delaying the prosecution of his claim, it may be
properly withheld. Bann v. .- alell, 3 C. & P. 376; Newell
v. Keith, 11 Vt. 214; Adam .EpressComlany v. MEiltcm, 11
Bush, 49.

REDFIELD v. YSTALYFERA IRON COMPANY. 177
Opinion of the Court.

The statute of New York allowing interest on verdicts, relied on in argument as applicable, was intended for the government of the ordinary practice of the court, and cannot furnish
the rule for a case that is excepted from it by the unexplained
negligence and delay of the plaintiff. The verdict, indeed, in
the present instance was purely formal, as much so as the penalty of a bond, which does not represent the amount equitably
due, but stands only as security for it. In ordinary practice it
may be convenient, and certainly would not be improper nor
unjust, that interest properly allowed, on the real amount subsequently ascertained, should be calculated from the date of
such a verdict; but in such cases it is not interest on the verdict in fact, because, until the amount is liquidated by the
subsequent action of the court, there is no sum certain due on
which interest could be computed. The finding of the court
fixing the amount due is, in fact and in contemplation of law,
the equivalent for the verdict of the jury, upon which interest
may be allowed; and when that has been, as in the present
instance, unreasonably delayed by the neglect of the plaintiff,
he cannot justly claim interest by way of damages for delay
which has been altogether his own. The date of the order for
judgment in the present case is April 30th, 1883, from which
time only interest should have been allowed.
For this error, accordingly, the judgment i8 reversed, wit,
costs in this court, and the came remanded, with instructions to enter a judgment for the defndnt in errorfor
the sum, of $715.70, with interest thereon from .April 30th,
1883, together with costs in the Circuit Court.
ToL. ox-12

