OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

of the consumers, the line is passed which separates regulation
from spoliation.
For the reasons thus stated I cannot assent to the judngment
of the court.

HOWARD COUNTY v. PADDOCK.
m

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF 1ISSOURI.
Argued January22d, 1834.-Decided February 4th, 1884.

.issouri--iunicipal Bonds-imunicipalCorporation.
The Louisiana and Missouri Railroad, through Howard County, Missouri, was
constructed under authority derived from the original charter granted in
1859, and the power conferred by that act upon the county to subscribe
to the capital stock of the railroad company without a vote of the people
was not affected by the amendment to the Constitution in 1865. Ca)Zaway
County v. Foster, 93 U. S. 567, affirmed and followed.

.X'. John D. Stevenson for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. John H.£ Overall for defendant in error.
MM. CIIF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.

It was conceded on the argument of this case that under the
original charter of the Louisiana and Missouri River Railroad
Company granted in 1859, Howard County had authority to
subscribe to the capital stock of the company without a vote of
the people, and that this authority was not taken away by the
Constitution of 1865. The claim is, however, that the amending act of 1868 so changed the original charter as to subject it
to the prohibitions of the Constitution as to municipal subscriptions made after that act was passed and accepted by the company. As to this it is sufficient to say that in County of Cal away v. Foster,93 U. S. 567, it was decided otherwise. By the
act of 1868 power was given to build a branch through Callaway County, and to extend the road across the Missouri River,
but no change was made in the direction of the main line.

EX PARTE CLODOMIRO COTA.
Opinion of the Court.

That was left to the discretion of the directors, who retained
their original authority to build through Howard County on
the way to the :Missouri. The original authority of Howard
County to subscribe to the stock was consequently unimpaired.
The fact that the branch through Callaway County was located,
and the subscription of that county received, before Howard
County made its subscription, is unimportant in this case, because the line through Callaway County was located as a
branch, while that through Howard County was designated in
express terms as the main line. If either part of the road was
built under new authority conferred on the company by the
act of 1868, it certainly was not the main line as located. The
power to build the main line was clearly conferred by the act
of 1859.
It follows that the judgment of the Circuit Court was right,
and it is consequently

EX PARTE CLODOIRO COTA.
ON CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION' OF OPINION FROM THE DISTRICT OF
CALIFORNIA.
Submitted January224, 184-Decided February 4th, 1884.

Division of Oiinion-uridiction.
This court cannot take jurisdiction of a certificate of division in opinion in
proceedings under writ of habeas corpus, until entry of final judgment,
.xpare Tom Tong, 108 U. S. 56-approved and followed.

. AsmistantItt
States.

rney-Gneraz -Yaury for the United

No counsel appeared for Clodomiro Cota.
R* CHiEF JusTicE W m, delivered the opinion of the court.

It was decided at the last iermin Exaparte Tom Tong, 108 U. S.
556, that this court could not take jurisdiction of a certificate
of division in olinion between the judges of a Circuit Court
voL. cx-25

