A. T. & S. RAILROAD v. D. & N. 0. RAILROAD.

667

Syllabus.
has been comparatively free from both these evils in the past.
no lover of his country can shut his eyes to the fear of future
danger from both sources.
If the recurrence of such acts as these prisoners stand convicted of are too common in one quarter of the country, and
give omen of danger from lawless violence, the free use of
money in elections, arising from the vast growth of recent
wealth in other quarters, presents equal cause for anxiety.
If the government of the United States has within its constitutional domain no authority to provide against these evils,
if the very sources of power may be poisoned by corruption or
controlled by violence and outrage, without legal restraint,
then, indeed, is the country in danger, and its best powers, its
highest purposes, the hopes which it inspires, and the love
which enshrines it, are at the mercy of the combinations of
those who respect no right but brute force, on the one hand,
and unprincipled corruptionists on the other.
The rue i8 discharged, and the writ of 1uha
corus is
dmied.

ATCHISON, TOPEKA & SANTA FE RAILROAD COMPANY v. DENVER & NEW ORLEANS RAILROAD
COMPANY.
DENVER & NEW ORLEANS RAILROAD COMPANY
.ATCHISON, TOPEKA & SANTE FE RAILROAD
COMPANY.
oOSS AppEAXS IROM THE CIMCUI coUrr op TH

UITED STATES

FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Submitte JanuarY 16th, 1884.--ecided March 3d, 1884.

Connecting Railroads-TheirRighis and Duties.
The provision in the Constitution of Colorado, that "all individuals, associa-

tions, and corporations shall have equal rights to have persons and property transported over any railroad in this State, and no undue or unreasonable discrimination shall be made in charges or facilities for transportation of freight or passengers within the State, and no railroad com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.
pany, nor any lessee, manager, or employee thereof, shall give any preference to individuals, associations, or corporations in furnishing cars or
motive power," imposes no greater obligation on a railroad company than
the common law would have imposed upon it.
The provision in the Constitution of Colorado that "every railroad company
shall have the right with its road to intersect, connect with, or. cross any
other railroad," only implies a mechanical union of the tracks of the roads
so as to admit of the convenient passage of cars from one to the other, and
does not of itself imply the right of connecting business with business.
At common law a railroad common carrier is not bound to carry beyond its
own line; and if it contracts to carry beyond it, it may, in the absence of
statutory regulations, determine for itself what agencies it will employ;
and there is nothing in the previsions of the Constitution of Colorado
which takes away such right, or imposes any further obligation.
A railroad company bas authority to establish its own stations for receiving
and putting down passengers and merchandise, and may regulate the time
and manner in which it will carry them, and in the absence of statutory
obligations, it is not required in Colorado to establish stations for those
purposes at a point where another railroad company hasmade a mechanical
union with its road.
A provision in a State Constitution which prohibits a railroad company from
discriminations in charges and facilities does not, in the absence of legislation, require a company which has made provisions with a connecting road
for the transaction of joint business at an established union junction
station, to make similar provisions with a rival connecting line at another
near point on its line, at which the second connecting line has made a
mechanical union with its road.
A.provision in a State Constitution which forbids a railroad company to make
discrimination in rates is not violated by refusing to give to a connecting
road the same arrangement as to through rates which are given to another
vonnecting line, unless the conditions as to the service are'substantilly
alike in both cases.

This was a bill in equity filed by the Denver & tew Orleans
Railroad Company, a Colorado corporation, owning and operating a railroad in that State between Denver and Pueblo, a distance of about one hundred and twenty-five miles, against the
Atchison, Topeka & Sante F4 Railroad Company, a Kansas corporation, owning and operating a railroad in that State from the
Missouri River, at Kansas City, westerly to the Colorado State
line, and also operating from there, under a lease, a road in
Colorado from the State lie to Pueblo, built by the Pueblo &
Aikansas Valley Railroad Company, a Colorado corporation.
The two roads so operated by the Atchison, Topeka & Santa

A. T. & S. RAILROAD v. D. & Xi. 0. RAILROAD.

669

Statement of Facts.
F4 Company formed a continuous line of communication from
Kansas City to Pueblo, about six hundred and thirty-four miles.
The general purpose of the suit was to compel the Atchison,
Topeka & Santa F4 Company to unite with the Denver & New
Orleans Company in forming a through line of railroad transportation to and from Denver over the Denver & New Orleans
road, with all the privileges as to exchange of business, division
of rates, sale of tickets, issue of bills of lading, checking of baggage and interchange of cars, that were or might be customary
with connecting roads, or that were or iight be granted to the
Denver & Ri6 Grande Railroad Company, another Colorado
corporation, also owning and operating a road parallel to that
of the Denver & New Orleans Company between Denver and
Pueblo, or to any other railroad company competing with the
Denver & New Orleans for Denver business.
It appeared that when the Atchison, Topeka & Santa F6
Company reached Pueblo with its line it had no connection of
its own. with Denver. The Denver & Rio Grande road was
built and running between Denver and Pueblo, but the gauge
of its track was different from that of the Atchison, Topeka &
Santa F4. Other companies occupying different routes had at
the time substantially the control of the transportation of passengers and freight between the Missouri River and Denver.
The Atchison, Topeka & Santa F4 Company, being desirous
of competing for this business, entered into an arrangement, as
early as 1879, with the Deiiver & Rio Grande Company for the
formation of a through line of transportation for that purpose.
By this arrangement a third rail was to be put down on the
track of the Denver & Rio Grande road, so as to admit of the
passage of cars continuously over both roads, and terms were
agreed on for doing the business and for the division of rates.
The object of the parties was to establish a new line, which
could be worked with rapidity and economy, in competition
with the old ones. In the division of prices the Denver & Rio
Grande Company was allowed compensation at the rate of a
mile and a half for every mile of actual haul. As the distance
from the MIfissouri River to Pueblo by this route was about the
same as to Denver by the other routes, the through rates over

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

this line to and from Denver were usually made about the same
as the rates to and from Pueblo. This was necessary to compete successflly with other lines for Denver business. Afterwards another agreement, known as the "tripartite agreement,"
was entered into between the Atchison, Topeka & Santa F4,
the Denver & Rio Grande, and the Union Pacific Railroad
Companies, by which rates were established between Denver
and the Missouri River, and arrangements made for a division of
business among those companies, and for the regulation of their
conduct towards each other with a view to avoiding competition between themselves or from others.
In 1882 the Denver & New Orleans Company completed
its road between Denver and Pueblo, and connected its track
with that of the Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fj, in Pueblo,
twelve or fifteen hundred feet easterly from the junction of
the Denver & Rio Grande, and about three-quarters of a
mite from the union depot at which the Atchison, Topeka &
Santa F6 and the Denver & Rio Grande interchanged their
business, and where each stopped its trains regularly to take
on and let off passengers and receive and deliver freight. The
Denver & New Orleans Company erected at its junction
with the Atchison, Topeka & Santa F4 platforms and other
accommodations for the interchange of business, and before
this suit was begun the general superintendent of the Denver
& New Orleans Company made a request in writing of the
general manager of the Atchison, Topeka & Santa F6, as
follows:
"That through bills of lading be given via your line and ours,
and that you allow all freight consigned via D. & 2T. 0. R. R. to
be delivered this company at point of junction, and on such terms

as exist between your road and any other line or lines ; that you
allow your cars, or cars of any foreign line, destined for points
reached by the D. & N. 0. R. R., to be delivered to this company
and hauled to destination in same manner as interchanged with
any other line. That you allow tickets to be placed on sale between points on line of D. & N. 0. R. R. and those on line of
A. T. & S. F. R. R., or reached by either line; that a system of

A. T. & S. RAILROAD v. D. & N. 0. RAILROAD.

671

Statement of Facts.
through checking of baggage be adopted; that a transfer of IT. S.
mail be made at point of junction. In matter of settlements between the two companies for earnings and charges due, we will
settle daily on delivery of freight to this line; for mileage due
for car service, and for amounts due for tickets interchanged, we
agree to settle monthly, or in any other manner adopted by your
line, or as is customary between railroads in such settlements."
This request was refused, and the Atchison, Topeka &
Santa F4 Company continued its through business with the
Denver & Rio Grande as before, but declined to receive or
deliver freight or passengers at the junction of the Denver &
New Orleans road, or to give or take through bills of lading,
or to sell or receive through tickets, or to check baggage over
that line. All passengers or freight coming from or destined
for hat line were taken or delivered at the regular depot of
the Atchison, Topeka & Santa F4 Company in Pueblo, and
the prices charged were according to the regular rates to and
from that point, which were more than the Atchison, Topeka,
& Santa F4 received on a division of through rates to and
from Denver under its arrangement with the Denver & Rio.
Grande Company.
By the Constitution of Colorado, art. 15, corporations can
only be formed in that State under general laws, subject to
alteration and repeal, and the law under which the Pueblo &
Arkansas Valley Railroad Company was organized, conferred
power, among others:
"Second. To cross, intersect, or connect its railroad with any
other railway.
"Third. To connect at State line with roads of other States and
Territories.
"Fourth. To receive and convey passengers and property on
its railway.
"Fifth. To erect and maintain all necessary and convenient
buildings and stations, fixtures and machinery, for the convenience,
accommodation, and use of passengers, freights, and business interests, or which may be necessary for the construction and
operation of said railway.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.
"Sixth. To regulate the time and manner in which passengers
and property shall be transported, and the compensation to be
paid therefor." General Laws of Colorado, 1877.

Sections 4 and 6 of article 15 of the Constitution of Colorado
are as follows:
11 Snc. 4. All railroads shall be public highways, and all raflroad
companies shall be common carriers. Any association or corporation organized for the purpose shall have the right to construct
and operate a railroad between any designated points within this
State, and to connect at the State line with railroads of other
States or Territories. Every railroad company shall have the
right with its road to intersect, connect with, or cross any other
railroad.
"'Sic. 6. All individuals, associations, ahd corporations shall
have equal rights to have persons and property transported over
any railroad in this State, and no undue or unreasonable discrimination shall be made in charges or facilities for transportation of
freight or passengers within the State, and no railroad company,
nor any lessee, manager, or employ6 thereof, shall give any preference to individuals, associations, or corporations in furnishing
cars or motive power.''
:No other provisions of the Constitution or of the statutes of
the State were referred to as affecting the questions involved in
the suit.
A large amount of testimony was in th6 record as to the custom of connected roads in respect to the interchange of business
and the formation of through lines. From this it appeared
that, while through business was very generally done on
through lines formed by an arrangement between connecting
roads, no road could make itself a part of such a line, so as to
participate in its special advantages, without the consent of
the others. Oftentimes new roads, opening up new points,
were admitted at once on notice, without a special agreement
to that effect, or in reference to details; still, if objection was
made, the new road must te content with the right to do business over the line in such a way as the law allowed to others that
have no special contract interest in the line itself. The manner

A. T. & S. RAILROAD v. D. & N. 0. RAILROAD. 673
Statement of Facts.
in which its business must be done by the line would depend
not alone on the connection of its track with that of the line,
but upon the duty which the line as a carrier owed to it as a
customer. No usage was established which required pne of the
component companies of a connecting through line to grant to
a competitor of any of the other companies the same privileges
that were accorded to its associates, simply because the tracks
of the competing company united with its own and admitted of
a free and convenient interchange of business. The line was
made up by the contracting companies to do business as carriers
for the public; and companies, whose roads did not form part
of the line, had no other rights in connection with it,. than such
as belonged to the public at large, unless special provision was
made therefor by the legislature or the contracting companies.
Upon this state of facts the Circuit Court entered a decree
requiring the Atchison, Topeka & Santa F4 Company to stop
all its passenger trains at the platform built by the Denver &
New Orleans Company where the two roads joined, and to remain there long enough to take on and let off passengers with
safety, and to receive and leliver express matter and the mails.
It also required the Atchison, Topeka & Santa F4 Company
to keep an agent there, to sell tickets, check baggage, and bill
freight. All freight trains were to be stopped at the same
place whenever there was freiglht to be taken on or delivered, if
proper notice was given. While the Atchison, Topeka & Santa
F4 Company was not required to issue or recggmize through
bills of lading embracing the Denver & New Orleans road in
the route, or to sell or recoghize through tickets of the same
character, or to check baggage in connection with that road, it
was required to carry freight and passengers going to or com-ing from that road at the same price it would receive if the
passenger or freight were carried to or from the same point
upon a through ticket or through bill of lading issued under
any arrangement with the Denver & Rio Grande Company
or any other competitor of the Denver & New Orleans Company for business. In short, the decree, as entered, establishes,
in detail, rules and regulations for the working of the Atchison,
Topeka & Santa F6 and Denver & New Orleans roads, in convoL. cx--43

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

nection with each other as a connecting through line, and, in
effect, requires the Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fd Company to
place the Denver & New Orleans Company on an equal footing
as to the interchange of business with the most.favored of the
compctitors of that company, both as to prices and facilities,
except in respect to the issue of through bills of lading, through
checks for baggage, through tickets, and perhaps, the compulsory interchange of cars.
From this decree both companies appealed; the Atchison,
Topeka & Santa F4 Company, because the bill was not dismissed; and the Denver & New Orleans Company because the
decree did not fix the rates to be charged by the Atchison,
Topeka & Santa F6 Company for freight and passengers transported by it in connection with the Denver & New Orleans, or
make a specific division and apportionment of through rates
between the two companies, and because it did not require the
issue of through tickets and through bills of lading, and the
through checking of baggage.
Xr. i. 0. 7Uhacher,Mr. C7harlesE Gast,2fr. Geog'ye B. Peck
and .A&. William . Evars for the Atchison, Topeka &
Santa F6 Railroad Company.
Xr.*E. T. Wells for the Denver & New Orleans Railroad
Company.
Mm.

CmrE JUSncE WArrs delivered the opinion of the court.

After reciting the facts in the foregoing language he continued:
The case has been presented by counsel in two aspects:
1. In view of the requirements of the Constitution of Colorado alone; and
2. In view of the constitutional and common-law obligations of railroad companies in Colorado as common carriers.
We will.first consider the requirements of the Constitution;
and here it may be premised that see. 6 of art. 15 imposes no
greater obligations upon the company than the common law
would have imposed without it. Every common carrier must
carry for all to the extent of his capacity, without undue or
unreasonable discrimination either in charges or facilities. Thd

A. T. & S. RAILROAD v. D. & N. 0. RAILROAD.

6*75

Opinion of the CourL

Constitution has taken from the legislature the power of abolishing this rule as applied to railroad companies.
So in sec. 4 there is nothing specially important to the present inquiry except the last sentence: "Every railroad company
shall have the right with its road to intersect, connect with, or
cross any other railroad." Railroad companies are created to
serve the public as carriers for hire, and their obligations to
the public are such as the law attaches to that service. The
only exclusively constitutional question in the case is, therefore, whether the right of one railroad company to connect its
road with that of another company, which has been made part
of the fundamental law of the State, implies more than a mechanical union of the tracks of the roads so as to admit of the
convenient passage of cars from one to the other. The claim
on the part of the Denver and New Orleans Cqmpany is that
the right to connect the roads includes the right of business
intercourse between the two companies, such as is customary
on roads forming a continuous line, and that if the companies
fail or refuse to agree upon the terms of their intercourse a
court of equity may, in the absence of statutory regulations,
determine what the terms shall be. Such appears to have been
the opinion of the Circuit Court, and accordingly in its decree
a compulsory business connection was established between the
two companies, and rules were laid down for the government
of their conduct towards each other in this new relation. In
other words, the court has made an arrangement for the business intercourse of these companies such as, in its opinion, they
ought in law to have made for themselves.
There is here no question as to how or where the physical
connection of the roads shall be made, for that has already
been done at the place, and in the way, decided upon by the
Denver & New Orleans Company for itself, and the Atchison, Topeka & Santa F4 Company does not ask to have it
changed. The point in dispute upon this branch of the case,
therefore, is whether, under the Constitution of Colorado, the
Denver & New Orleans Company has a constitutional right,
which a Court of Chancery can enforce by a decree for specifie
performance, to form the same business connection, and make

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

the same traffic arrangement, with the Atchison, Topeka &
Santa Fe Company as that company grants to, or makes with,
any competing company operating a connected road.
The right secured by the Constitution is that of a connection
of one road with another, and the language used to describe
the grant is strikingly like that of sec. 23 of the charter of the
Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company, given by Maryland on
the 28th of February, 1827, Iaws of Maryland, 1826, c. 123,
which is in these words:
"That full right and privilege is hereby reserved to the citizens
of this State, or.any company hereafter to be incorporated under
the authority of this State, to connect with the road hereby provided for, any other railroad leading from the main route, to any
other part or parts of the State."
At the time this charter was granted the idea prevailed that
a railroad could be used like a public highway by all who chose
to put carriages thereon, subject only to the payment of tolls
and to reasonable regulations as to the manner of doing business, -LakeS p. & im . 1. Co. v. Unitd Stat, 93 U. S.
442; but that the word "connect," as here used, was not supposed to mean anything more than a mechanical union of the
tracks is apparent from the fact that when afterwards, on the
9th of March, 1833, authority was given the owners of certain
factories to connect roads from their factories with the Washington branch of the Baltimore & Ohio Company, and to erect
depots at the junctions, it was in express terms made "the duty
of the company to take from and deliver at said depot any
produce, merchandise, or manufactures, or other articles whatsoever, which they (the factory owners) may require to be
transported on said road." Maryland Iaws of 1832, c. 175,
sec. 16. The charter of the Baltimore & Ohio Company was
one of the earliest ever granted in the United States, and while
from the beginning it was common in most of the States to
provide in some form by charters for a connection of one railroad with another, we have not had our attention called to a
single case where, if more than a connection of tracks was

A. T. & S. RAILROAD -v. D. & X. 0. RAILROAD.

6T7

Opinion of the'Court.
required, the additional requirement -was not distinctly stated
and defined by the legislature.
Legislation regarding the duties of connected roads because
of their connection is to be found in many of the States, and it
began at a very early day in the history of railroad construction.
As long ago as 184-2 a general statute upon the subject was
passed in Maine$ Stats. of Maine, 1812, c.9; and in 1854, c. 93,
a tribunal was established for determining upon the "terms of
connection" and "the rates at which passengers and merchan.dise coming from the one shall be transported over the other,"
in case the companies themselves failed to agree. Other States
have made different provisions, and as railroads have increased
in number, and their relations have become more and more com;plicated, statutory regulations have been more frequently
adopted and with greater particularity in matters of detail.
Much litigation has grown out of controversies between connected roads as to their respective rights, but we have found no
case in which, without legislative regulation, a simple connection of tracks has been held to establish any contract or business
relation between the companies.
No provision is to be found in any of the constitutions of the
several States, having special reference to the government of
railroad corporations, before that of Illinois, which was ratified
by a vote of the people oii the second of July, 1870. See. 12 of
art. 11 of that Constitution is as follows:
"Railways heretofore constructed or that may hereafter be
constructed in this State are hereby declared public highways,
and shall be free to all persons for the transportation of their persons and property thereon, under such regulations as may be
prescribed by law. And the general assembly shall, from time
to time, pass laws establishing reasonable maximum rates of
charges for the transportation of passengers and freight on the
different railroads of this State."
During the same year an amendment to the Constitution of
Michigan was adopted in these words:
"SEc.

1.The legislature may, from time to time, pass lawsi

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

establishing reasonable maximum rates of charges for the transportation of passengers and freight on different railroads in this
State ; and shall prohibit running contracts between such railroad
companies, whereby discrimination is made in favor of either of
such companies as against other companies owning connecting or
intersecting lines of railroad."
The Constitution of West Virginia, adopted ini 1872, contained
(sec. 9, art. 11) an exact copy of sec. 12, art. 11 of the Constitution of Illinois, with an addition of these words:
"And providing for the correction of abuses, the prevention of
unjust discriminations between through and local or way freight
and passengei tariffs, and for the protection of the just rights of
the public, and shall enforce such laws by adequate penalties."
In 1873 a new Constitution was adopted in the State of Pennsylvania. Secs. 1 and 3 of art. 17 are as follows:
"SEO. 1. All railroads and canals shall be public highways, and
all railroads and canal companies shall be common carriers. Any
association or corporation organized for the purpose shall have the
right to construct and operate a railroad between any points within
this State, and to connect at the State line with railroads of other
States. Every railroad company shall have the right with its road
to intersect, connect with, or cross any other railroad; and shall
receive and transport each the other's passengers, tonnage and
cars, loaded or empty, without delay or discrimination."
"Snc. 3. All individuals, associations, and corporations shall
have equal right to have persons and property transported over
railroads and canals, and no undue or unreasonable discrimination
shall be made in charges for, or in facilities for, transportation of
freight or passengers within the State, or coming from or going
to any other State. Persons and property transported over any
railroad shall be delivered at any station at charges not exceeding
the charges for transportation of persons and property of the same
class in the same direction to any more distant station; but excursion tickets may be issueaI at special rates."
Since that time new constitutions have been adopted in Alabama, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Georgia, Louisiana,

A. T. & S. RAILROAD r. D. & 1W. 0. RAILROAD.

679

Opinion of the Court.
Missouri, Nebraska, and Texas. In Georgia, sec. 2, art. 4,
authority was given the legislature to regulate faxes and
freights and to prevent unjust discriminations; and in Nebraska, sec. 4, art. 11, the provision in the Constitution of Illinois was substantially followed; but in Alabama, sec. 21, art.
13, Axrkansas, sec. 1, art. 17, California, sec. 11, art. 12, Louisiana, art. 243, Iissouri, sees. 12, 13, 14, art. 12, and Texas, see.
1, art. 10, the whole of sec. 1, art. 12 of that of Pennsylvania
is included without any material change of phraseology. In
Colorado, however, while all th6 rest of that section is adopted,
these words are omitted: "and shall receive and transport each
other's passengers, tonnage and cars, loaded or empty, without
delay or discrimination." And so, while the first sentence'of
see. 3, art. 12 is included, in language almost identical, the last
sentence, which provides that passengers and property shall be
delivered at all stations at charges not exceeding the charges
to a more distant station, is left out, and the following inserted
in its place: "and no railroad company, nor any lessee,
manager, or employ4 thereof, shall give any preference to
individuals, associations, or corporations in furnishing cars or
motive power." Both these alterations are significant, and we
cannot avoid the conclusion that their purpose was to leave the
legislature free to act in the regulation of the duties of OQnnected roads towards each other as the public good might
require, for it is always to be borne in mind that while constitutional provisions of this character are intended as securities
for the rights of the people, they may operate also as limitations on the powers of the legislature. To our minds it is
clear that the constitutional right in Colorado to connect railroad with railroad does not itself imply the right of connecting
business with business. The railroad companies are not to be
connected, but their roads. A connection of roads may make
a connection in business convenient and desirable, but the oie
does not necessarily carry with it the other. The language of
the Constitution is that railroads may "intersect, connect with,
or cross" each other. This clearly applies to the road as a
physical structure, not to the corporation or its business.
This brings us to the consideration of the second branch of

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

the case, to wit, the relative rights of the two companies at
common law and under the Constitution as owners of connected roads, it being conceded that there are no statutory
regulations applicable to the subject.
The Constitution expressly provides:
1. That all shall have equal rights in the transportation of
persons and property;
2. That there shall not be any undue or unreasonable discrimination in charges or facilities; and
3. That preferences shall not be given in fumishing cars or
motive power.
It does not expressly provide:
1. That the trains of one connected road shall stop for the
exchange of business at the junction with the other; nor
2. That companies owning connected roads shall unite in
forming a through line for continuous business, or haul each
other's cars; nor
3 That local rates on a through line shall be the same to
one connected road not in the line as the through rates are to
another which is; nor
4. That if one company refuses to agree with another owning
a connected road to form a through line or to do a connecting
business a court of chancery may order that such a business be
done and fix the terms.
The question, then, is whether these rights or any of them
are implied either at common law or from the Constitution.
At common law, a carrier is not bound to carry except on
his own line, and we think it quite, clear that if he contracts to
go beyond he may, in the absence of statutory regulations to
the -contrary, determine for himself what agencies he will
employ. His contract is equivalent to an extension of his line
for the purposes of the contract, and if he holds himself out as
a carrier beyond the line, so that he may be required to carry
in that way for all alike, he may nevertheless confine himself
in carrying to the particular route he chooses to use. He puts
himself in no worse position, by extending his route with the
help of others, than he would occupy if the means of transportation employed were all his own. He certainly may select

A. T. & S. RAILROAD v. D. & N. 0. RAILROAD.

681

Opinion of the Court.
his own agencies and his own associates for doing his own
work.
The Atchison, Topeka & Santa F4 Company, as the lessee
of the Pueblo & Arkansas Valley Railroad, has the statutory
right to establish its own stations and to regulate the time and
manner in which it will carry persons and property and the
price to be paid therefor. As to all these matters, it is undoubtedly subject to the power of legislative regulation, but in
the absence of regulation it owes only such duties to the public,
or to individuals, associations or corporations, as the common
law, or some custom having the force of law, has established
for the government of those in its condition. As has alreadybeen shown, the Constitution of Colorado gave to every railroad company in the State the right to a mechanical union of
its road with that of any other company in the State, but no
more. The legislature has not seen fit to extend this right, as
it undoubtedly may, and consequently the Denver & New
Orleans Company comes to the Atchison, Topeka & Santa
F4 Company just as any other customer does, and with no more
rigtits. It has established its junction and provided itself yith
the means of transacting its business at that place, but as
yet it has no legislative authority to compel the other company
to adopt that station or to establish an agency to do business
there. So far as statutory regulations are concerned, if it wishes
to use the Atchison, Topeka & Santa F4 road for business,
it must go to the place where that company takes on and lets
off passengers or property for others. It has as a railroad
company no statutory or constitutional privileges in this particular over other persons, associations, or corporations. It saw
fit to establish its junction at a place away from the station
which the Atchison, Topeka & Santa F Company had, in
the exercise of its legal discretion, located for.its own convenience and that of the public. It does not now ask to enter that
station with its tracks or to interchange business at that place,
but to compel the Atchison, Topeka & Santa F4 Company
to stop at its station and transact a connecting business there.
No statute requires that connected roads shall adopt joint
stations, or that one railroad company shall stop at or make

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

use of the station of another. Each company in the State has
the legal right to locate its own stations, and, so far as statutory regulations are concerned, is not required to use any
other.
A railroad company is prohibited, both by the common law
and by the Constitution of Colorado, from discriminating unreasonably in favor of or against another company seeking to
do business on its road; but that does not necessarily imply
that it must stop at the junction of one and interchange business there, because it has established joint depot accommodations and provided .facilities for doing a connecting business
v ith another company at another place. A station may ba
established for the special accommodation of a particular customer; but we have never heard it claimed that every other
customer could, by a suit in equity, in the absence of a statutory or contract right, compel the company to establish a like
station for his special accommodation at some other place.
Such matters are, and always have been, proper subjects for
legislative consideration, unless prevented by some charter contract; but, as a general rule, remedies for injustice uf that kind
can only be obtained from the legislature. A court of chancery is not, any more than is a court of law, clothed with legislative power. It may enforce, in its own appropriate way, the
specific performance of an existing legal obligation arising out
of contract, law, or usage, but it cannot create the obligation.
In the present case, the Atchison, Topeka & Santa F4 and
the Denver & Rio Grande Companies formed their business
connection and established their junction or joint station long
before the Denver & New Orleans road was built. The Denver & New Orleans Company saw fit to make its junction with
the Atchison, Topeka & Santa F Company at a different
place. Under these ciicumstances, to hold that, if the Atchison, Topeka & Santa F4 continued to stop at its old station,
after the Denver & New Orleans was built, a refusal to stop
at the junction of the Denver & New Orleans, was an unreasonable discrimination as i6 facilities in favor of the Denver &
Rio Grande Company, and against the Denver & New Orleans,
would be in effect to declare that every railroad company which

A. T. & S. RAILROAD v. D. & N. 0. RAILROAD.

683

Opinion of the Court,

forces a connection of its road with that of another company
has a right, under the Constitution or at the common law, to
require the company with which it connects to do a connecting
business at the junction, if it does a similar business with any
other company under any other circumstances. Such, we
think, is not the law. It may be made so by the legislative
department of the government, but it does not follow, as a
necessary consequence, from the constitutional right of a mechanical union of tracks, or the constitutional prohibition
against undue or unreasonable discrimination in facilities.
This necessarily disposes of the question of a continuous business, or a through line for passengers or freight, including
through tickets, through bills of lading, through checking of
baggage, and the like. Such a business does not necessarily
follow from a connection of tracks. The connection may
enable the companies to do such a business conveniently when
it is established, but it does not of itself establish the business.
The legislature cannot take away the right to a physical union
of two roads, but whether a connecting business shall be done
over them after the union is made depends on legislative regulation, or contract obligation. An interchange of cars, or the
hauling by one company of the cars of the other, implies a stop
at the junction to make the exchange or to take the cars. If
there need be no stop, there need be no exchange or taking on
of cars.
The only remaining questions are as to the obligation of the
Atchison, Topeka & Santa F Company to carry for the
Denver & New Orleans when passengers go to or freight is
delivered at the regular stations, and the prices to be charged.
As to the obligation to carry, there is no dispute, and we do
not understand it to be claimed that carriage has ever been refused when applied for at the proper place. The controversy,
and the only controversy, is about the place and the price.
That the price must be reasonable is conceded, and it is no
doubt true that in determining what is reasonable the prices
charged for business coming from or going to other roads connecting at Pueblo may be taken into consideration. But the
relation of the Denver & New Orleans Company to the

OCTOBER T.RRM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

Atchison, Topeka & Santa F4 is that of a Pueblo customer,
and it does not necessarily follow that the price which the
Atchison, Topeka & Santa F4 gets for transportation to and
from Pueblo, on a division of through rates among the component companies of a through line to Denver, must settle the
Pueblo local rates. It may be that the local rates to and from
Pueblo are too high, and that they ought to be reduced, but
that is an entirely different question from a division of through
rates. There is no complaint of a discrimination against the
Denver & New Orleans Company in respect to the regular
Pueblo rates; neither is there anything except the through
rates to show that the local rates are too high. The bill does
not seek to reduce the local rates, but only to get this company
put into the same position as the Denver & Rio Grande on a
division of through rates. This cannot be done until it is shown
that the relative situations of the two companies with the
Atchison, Topeka & Santa F6, both as to the kind of service
and as to the conditions under which it is to be performed, are
substantially the same, so that what is reasonable for one must
necessarily be reasonable for the other. When a business
connection shall be established between the Denver & New
Orleans Company and the Atchison, Topeka & Santa F4 at
their junction, and a continuous line formed, different questions
may arise; but so long as the situation of the parties continues
as it is now, we cannot say that, as a matter of law, the prices
charged by the Atchison, Topeka & Santa F4, for the transportation of persons and property coming from or going to the
Denver & New Orleans, must necessarily be the same as are
fixed for the continuous line over the-Denver & Rio Grande.
Our attention has been called to several cases in the English
courts where the question of reasonable or unreasonable preference by railway companies has been considered, but they all
arose under the "Railway and Canal Traffic Act, 1854," 17 &
18 Vict. c. 31, and furnish but little aid in the determination of
the present case. They are instructive and of high authority
as to what would be undue or unreasonable preferences among
competing customers, but none of them relate to the rights of
connected railroads where there is no provision in law for their

A. T. & S. RAILROAD v. D. & N. 0. RAILROAD.

685

Opinion of the Court.
operation as continuous lines for business. And here it is
proper to remark that in the very act under which these cases
arose it is provided that "every railway company ....
working railways . . . . which form part of a continuous
shall
line of railway . . . . communication . ...
afford all due and reasonable facilities for receiving and forwarding by one of such railways . . ..
all the traffic
arriving by the other, without any unreasonable delay, and
without any . . . . preference or advantage, or prejudice
and so that no obstruction may
or disadvantage, ....
be offered to the public desirous of using such railways
. . as a continuous line of communication, and so that all
reasonable accommodation may, by means of the railways
of the several companies, be at all times afforded
.* ..
to the public in that behalf." If complaint was made of a
violation of this provision, application could be made to the
courts for relief. Were there such a statute in Colorado, this
case would come before us in a different aspect. As it is, we
know of no power in the judiciary to do what the Parliament
of Great Britain has done, and what the proper legislative
authority ought perhaps to do, for the relief of the parties to
this controversy.
All the American cases to which our attention has been
called by counsel relate either to what amounts to undue discrinination between the customers of a railroad company, or
to the power of a court of chancery to interfere, if there is such
a discrimination. None of them hold that, in the absence of
statutory direction, or a specific contract, a company having
the power to locate its own stopping places can be required by
a court of equity to stop at another railroad junction and interchange business, or that it must under all circumstances give
one connecting road the same facilities and the same rates that
it does to another with which it has entered into special contract relations for a continuous through line and arranged facilities accordingly. The cases are all instructiv in their analogies,
but their facts are different from those we have ndw to consider.
We have not referred specially to the tripartite agreement
or its provisions, because, in our opinion, it has nothing to do

OCTOBER TERM, 1883. •
Statement of Facts.

with this case as it is now presented. The question here is
whether the Denver & New Orleans Company would have
the right to the relief it asks if there were no such contract, not
whether the contract, if it exists, will be a bar to such a right.
The real question in the case, as it now comes before us, is
whether the relief required is legislative in its character or
judicial. We think it is legislative, and that upon the existing
facts a court of chancery can afford no remedy.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the cause
remanded with direction to
Dismiss tie bilZ with-outwpejudie.

DALLAS COUNTY v.MCKENZIE.
IN

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF Z1[SSOURI.
Submitted January 16th, 1884.-Decided ?Jurch ad, 1884.

*Evdence-ffunicipalBo &d.
Bails oun4lv. Douglas, 105 U. S. 728, relating to bonds in counties in Issouri
issued in payment of subscriptions to railway stock, approved and followed.
farcy v. Township of Oswego, 93 U. S. 687, HumboM Township v. Long, 92
U. S. 642. and Wilson v. Salaman a, 99 U. S. 499, relating to the validity
of such bonds in the hands of a bona fide holder, approved and followed.
When the records of a County Court show that orders for subscriptions to stock
were made at adjourned and special terms at which all the judges were
present, and that the last order was made at a regular term, it will be presumed, in the absence of anything to the contrary, that the adjourned and
special terms were regularly called and held.

This was an action to recover the amounts due on interest
coupons of municipal bonds issued in payment of a subscription
for $85,000 to railway stock.

The bonds contained the follow-

ing recital:
"This bond is is#aed pursuant to an order of the County Court
of the county of Dallas, made on the 18th of May, A. D. 1871, and
amended on the 19th of June, A.D. 1871, and on the 12th of
August, A. D. 1871.'

