OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

three years to file its map to establish the line of its road, and
for years afterwards to make selections. It is unreasonable to
say that during all that time these valuable lands were to be
kept out of the market, when the country was rapidly filling
up with an agricultural popuiation, settling and making valuable farms on them.
Z)e judgrazets of the Supreme (ourt of Iowa are a/rmned.

TAYLOR & Another v. BEMISS & Others by their next
Friend.
BEITSS & Others by their next Friend v. TAYLOR &
Another.
BEM ISS v. BEISS & Others by their next Friend.
APPEALS

FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLU3mIA

Argued December 19th, 20th. 18.-Decided January7th, 1IM.

Attorney-laims against t7w United States-Contingent Fee-Guardianand
.Ward-Lousiazna--Tutriz.
1. A citizen of Louisiana in his lifetime had a.valid claim against the United
States for the recovery of which a remedy was given in the Southern
Claims Commission. After his decease his widow was duly appointed
tutrix to his minor children and heirs: .Held,That it was her duty to take
legal steps to recover the money from the United States, and that whethir
the action was brought in her own name, or in hers jointly with the children, she was equally bound to prosecute it with diligence.
2. On the principles set forth in Wy0man v. United States, 109 U. S. 654: Held,
That a payment of a claim against the United States, to a tutrix appointed
under the laws of Louisiana is a valid payment making her responsible
to the minors, if wronged, for the receipt of the money by herself or by
her authorized attorney.
8. A contract ith an attorney to prosecute a claim for a contingent fee is not
void; and under the circumstances of this case, the parties having agreed
upon fifty per cent. of the claim as a contingent fee, the court is not prepared to assume that the division is extortionate. Stantonv. Embrog,
93 U. S. 548, approved and followed.

TAYLOR v. BEMISS.
Opinion of the Court.

3fr. George S. Boutwell for Taylor and Another.
.Mr. Enoch Totten for Mrs. Bemiss and the minor children.
.3f. F'rank T. Broming for Laura 5. Bemiss.
MR. JUSTICE MILFR delivered the opinion of the court.
Laura J. Bemiss, widow of John Bemiss, having a claim
against the United States pending before the commission commonly called the Southern Claims Commission, under the act
of March 3d, 1871, employed George Taylor and F. C. Wood,
attorneys-at-law, residing in Washington .city, to prosecute
said claim, and by an instrument in writing agreed to give
them fifty per cent. of the amount which might be recovered.
The sum recovered was $27,310.00, and, under a power of
attorney given by her to Mr. Taylor, he received from the
Treasury the sum of $14,598.33, and AIrs. Bemiss the balance
of $12,711.67.
The present suit originates in a bill in chancery brought by
Belle Bemiss, Elizabeth Bemiss, and Mattie Bemiss, minor children of Mrs. Bemiss and of her husband, John Bemiss, deceased,
to recover of Taylor and Wood and of Mrs. Bemiss, the money
thus received.
Mrs. Bemiss makes her answer a cross-bill'against Taylor and
Wood, and asserts the invalidity of her contract with them for
compensation, and prays also that they may be required to refund the money which they received under it.
To the bill and cross-bill Taylor and Wood answer, under
oath (and their answer is in no material matter disproved),
that they were employed by Mrs. Bemiss, by a letter written
from Louisiana, where she resided, asking them to accept a
retainer in the case, by reason of a suggestion of a friend of
hers in Louisiana, and she offered them fifty per cent. of the
amount recovered as their compensation. To this they assented,
and enclosed her a contract to that effect, which she signed and
returned to them. She also executed a power of attorney to
them, authorizing them to manage the case and to receive the
sum awarded to her.
The answer further states that, without any suggestion from

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

them, Mrs. Bemiss employed, at different times, two other attorneys in Louisiana, to each of whom she agreed to pay ten per cent.
of the amount of the award, and that defendants had advanced to
Mrs. Bemiss, pending the litigation, the sum of $800, which, with
interest to the time they received the money from the Treasury,
was added to the one-half they were entitled to by the terms
of the contract. They also paid the ten per cent. out of their
share to each of the attorneys employed by her, so that, deducting this twenty per cent., and the money advanced to her
and its interest, they received for their compensation only
thirty per cent. of the money recovered, or $8,193.00.
It is urged against the validity of this contract of employment that Mrs. Bemiss had no authority to bind her children,
the minor heirs of her deceased husband, by such a contract,
and that as to their interest in the award it is void.
The bill of the minor heirs states that Mrs. Bemiss had been
appointed by the proper court in Louisiana natural tutrix of
these child.en. We are of opinion that this appointment made
it her duty to take the necessary legal steps to obtain this
money from the United States, and that, whether the suit was
brought in her own name or in hers jointly with her children,
she was equally bound to prosecute it with diligence, and to do
all that was necessary to recover the money. It would be a
queer condition of the law if, while it imposed this obligation
upon her, it gave her no authority to employ counsel to prosecute the claim before the only legal tribunal which could allow
it; and if she could employ counsel, it follows as a matter of
course, she could make a contract for the amount of their
compensation.
This agreement would bind her as tutrix as well as in her
individual right, and it is in both characters she professes to
contract.
Such undoubtedly is the law of Louisiana, which must govern
as to her powers as tutrix, since it is there she was appointed,
and there both she and her children resided when she made the
agreement with Taylor and Wood.
Of her authority to make such a contract as tutrix we have
no doubt.

TAYLOR v. BEMISS.
Opinion of the Court.

Another objection raised is that, since by the act of Congress
making the appropriation to pay the money, it is expressly
made payable to Mrs. Bemiss and her children by name, her
authority as tutrix under the Louisiana appointment did not
authorize payment to her in the District of Columbia.
The subject of such payments by the United States to administrators appointed in the States is very fully discussed in
the case of Mynzan v. The Vnited States, decided simultaneously with the present case, 109 U. S., 654, and, upon the principles there laid down, we are of opinion that payment to Mrs.
Bemiss as tutrix under the Louisiana appointment is a valid
payment, and that she is responsible under that appointment,
and the receipt of the money by herself and by her authorized
attorney, to these minors if they have been wronged. And
this is a matter of accounting with them in her fiduciary character of tutrix.
It remains to be considered whether there is in this contract
of employment anything which, after it has been fully executed
on both sides, should require it to be declared void in a court
of equity, and the money received under it returned. It was
decided in the case Stanton v. Embrey, 93 U. S. 548, that contracts by attorneys for compensation in prosecuting claims
against the United States were not void because the amount-of
it was made contingent upon success, or upon the sum recovered. And the well known difficulties and delays in obtaining
payment of just claims which are not within the ordinary
course of procedure of the auditing officers of the government,
justifies a liberal compensation in successful cases, where none
is to be received in case of failure.
Any other rule would work much hardship in cases of creditors of small means residing far from the seat of government,
who can give neither money nor personal attention to securing
their rights.
This, however, does not remove the suspicion which naturally
attaches to such contracts, and where it can be shown that they
are obtained from the suitor by any undue influence of the attorney over the client, or by any fraud or imposition, or that
the compensation is clearly excessive, so as to amount to

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

extortion, the court will in a proper case protect the party
aggrieved.
While fifty per cent. seems to be more than a fair proportion
in the division between client and attorney in an ordinary case,
we are not prepared to assume that it is extortionate for that
reason alone, and the testhnony of the lawyers on that subject,
taken as experts, does not justify such a conclusion. In the
case before us, it is beyond dispute that the attorneys of Mrs.
Bemiss exercised no influence over her whatever in adjusting
the amount of the fee stipulated in the agreement. They had
never known her until this employment, and it was through no
suggestion of theirs or any agent of theirs that she applied to
them. Hler first letter to them on the subject made the offer
of fifty per cent., and no more was asked for by them.
The evidence of two of the judges who composed the court
shows that the case was a difficult and complicated one, and
that both Taylor and Wood attended to it vigorously, and gave
it much time and attention, and that it was in court a considerable time.
It seems probable that Mrs. Bemiss was an impatient and
not very wise woman, but there is no evidence of such weakness of mind as to incapacitate her from making a contract, and
there is absolutely no evidence of any advantage taken of her
*atany stage of the proceeding. On the contrary, the payment
by these principal attorneys of two-fifths of the fee they had
contracted for to other attorneys employed by her without
consulting them, for which she was bound while they were not,
shows anything but harsh or oppressive conduct, and would go
far to mitigate any objection to enforcing the contract founded
on the idea of excessive compensation.
We are of o~pinion that on the apya oTaylor and WVood
t7he decree of the court below must be reversed, and as the
minor children, jlaintiffs below, assign no error, because
they had no decree against their mother, a decree must be
rendered in that court dismissing the bill.

