OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

them, and from a careful consideration of the language of the
law itself, we are satisfied that it was not the intention of Congress, either in the 22d section of the act of 1789, or in the 2d
section of the act of 1872, or in the 1008th section of the Revised
Statutes, to change the rule which had always, from the
time of Henry Seventh, been applied to statutes of limitation,
namely, the rule that no disability will postpone the operation
of the statute unless it exists when the cause of action accrues;
and that when the statute begins to run no subsequent disability
will interrupt it.
This conclusion disposes of the case. As the appellant was
free from any disability for several months after the entry of
the decree appealed from, the statute commenced to run at
that time, and, therefore, the time for taking the appeal expired several years before it was actually taken.
The apeal is terefo'e dismissed.

WAPLES v. UNITED STATES.
APPFAL FROM THE COURT OF C6LAM.
Argued January 2d, 1884.-Decided March Sd, IM

Confimation-Deed-J'udicialsaSe.

In a sale under the Confiscation Act, of July 17th, 1862, 12 Stat. 589, the purchaser is presumed to know that if the offender had no estate in the premises at the time of seizure, nothing passed to the United States by decree or
to him by purchase, and general language of description in his deed will
not operate as a warranty or affect this presumption; and this rule prevails
as to the United States, although a different rule may prevail in the State
where the property is situated as to judicial sales under State laws.

Mr. . W. ifornor and 21r. 2 ason Day for appellant.
Mr. Solicitor-Generalfor appellee submitted the case on his
brief.
M2n. JusricE FELD delivered the opinion of the court.
In March, 1865, the plaintiff purchased for the sum of $7,400

WAPES v. UNTED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

certain real property in New Orleans at a sale upon a decree
rendered by the District Court of the United States in proceedings for its confiscation under the act of July 17th, 1862,
and subsequently obtained a deed of the property from the
marshal. The proceedings were instituted in the usual form
by a libel of information filed on the 7th of August, 1862, by
the district attorney of the Eastern District of Louisiana on
behalf of the United States, against ten lots of ground alleged
to be the property of Charles M. Conrad. The libel sets forth
that the marshal of the district, under authority from the district attorney, given pursuant to instructions of the AttorneyGeneral, had seized the lots of ground, which are fully described,
as forfeited to the United States; that they were owned by
Conrad then, and on the 17th of July, 1862, and previously;
that after. that date he had acted as an officer of the army or
navy of the rebels in arms against the government of the
United States, or as a member of Congress, or as a judge.of a.
court, or as a cabinet officer, or as a foreign minister, or as a
commissioner, or as a consul of the so-called Confederate States.
Indeed, many other official positions he is charged in the alternative with holding, the district attorney evidently regarding
him as a person of so much consequence that he must have lbeen
called to some official position by the Confederate government,
in which he gave aid and comfort to the enemies of the United
States, and therefore his right, title, and estate in the property
was forfeited, and ought to be condemned. Publication of
monition followed, and no one appearing to answer, judgment
by default was entered, declaring that the lots of land, the
property of Conrad, were condemned as forfeited to the United
States, and a decree for their sale was entered. In the writ
issued to the marshal and in his deed of sale, the lots are described as the property of Conrad. Under the act of Congress
no other interest than that of Conrad was forfeited, and no
other interest was sold. It was for his alleged offences that
the libel was filed and the forfeiture sought. It was undoubtedly in the power of Congress to provide for the confiscation
of the entire property as being within the enemy's country,
without restricting it to the estate of the defendant, but Congress.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

did not see fit to so enact; and as we said in speaking of the
proceedings in this case: "The court cannot enlarge the operations of the stringent provisions of the statute. The plaintiff
had notice of the character and legal effect of the decree of condemnation when he purchased, and is therefore presumed to
have known that if the alleged offender possessed no estate in
the premises at the time of their seizure, nothing passed to the
United States by the decree or to him by his purchase."
Bwurban- v. Conrad, 96 U. S. 291.
This would be true with reference to any layman who might
have been the purchaser, but with special force may it be applied to the plaintiff, who as the district attorney directed the
seizure and conducted the proceedings to the decree.
It turned out in other litigation that at the time of the seizure
Conrad possessed no estate in the premises. He had transferred
the property by a public act of sale before a notary on the 31st
of May, 1862, before the confiscation statute was passed, which
applied only to the property of persons thereafter guilty of acts
of disloyalty and treason. In express terms it withheld from
its application the property of persons who before its passage
may have offended in those respects. Conrad's power of disposition when he made his sale to his sons was not impaired by
anything he may previously have done. This was expressly
adjudged by this court in the case of Conrad, the son, against
the plaintiff. 96 U. S. 279.
But because of the general language used in the description
of the property in the libel of information and in the deed of
the marshal, it is contended that something more than the estate
of the offender Conrad was warranted by the United States to
the purchaser, and the warranty having failed, that he is entitled
to a return of the purchase money; but this position is without
even plausible foundation. As already stated, the plaintiff was
presumed to know the law on the subject, and that by his purchase under the decree he could only acquire such an estate as
the alleged offender possessed, to hold during the offender's life;
and that if the offender had no estate none was forfeited to the
United States, or sold under the decree of the court. So no
false assurance could have been made to the purchaser which

AITCHELL v. CLARK.
Syllabus.

could be suggested as a possible ground for the return of the
money; nor could there have been any mistake of fact which
would be recognized as a ground for relief even in equity, for
the fact suggested as having been misunderstood was declared
by the law.
Besides, the title to the property sold under judicial process
is not warranted by the party obtaining the judgment of the
court. Whatever title the law gives, the purchaser takes, no
more and no less; and he must govern himself accordingly.
Any different rule prevailing on this subject in Louisiana or any
other State by statute cannot change the position of the United
States with respect to judicial sales in proceedings instituted by
them.
Nor is this position at all affected by the doctrine that upon
the reversal of a judgment under which a sale has been had,
the purchaser is entitled to a return of his money. There has
been no reversal of the judgment inthe confiscation proceedings
against Conrad. On the contrary, it has been affirmed.

Judgrnznt affinmd.

MITCHELL & Another v. CLARK.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURL

Argmed December 14th, 17th, 1S83.-Decided March 3d, 1884.

Jurdiction-Limitations,Statute of.

When a defendant in a suit pending in a State court pleads a provision of the
State constitution as a defence, a judgment there overruling the plea presents no federal question to give jurisdiction to this court.

Congress has the constitutional power to prescribe the law of limitations for
suits which may by law be removed into the courts of the United States ;
and when Congress has exercised that power it is binding upon State courts
as well as uponFederal courts. A rn on v. Mu tphy, 109 U. S. 238, approved.
A suit by a lessor to recover of a lessee rents which, during the rebellion, by
order of the commanding general in the department where the property
was situated, had been paid to the military authorities and appropriated to
the use of the United States, is an action subject to the limitations prescribed
by the Act of March 3d, 1863, 12 Stat. 755, and May 11th, 1866,14 Stat. 46,

