OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

TAYLOR & Another v. DAVIS' ADMtINISTRATRIX.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Argued January 21st, 22d, 1884.-Decided February 4th, 1884.

Contrac.
Real estate and personal property were held in trust by two trustees. One
trustee at the request of the other and of a third person resigned his trust,
without requiring previous payment of his demands against the trust

estate, and the third person was appointed trustee in his place. The
two trustees then executed a written agreement with the outgoing trustee,
undertaking to apply to the payment of his said claims "all the moneys
which shall come into our hands as trustees as aforesaid after first paying
therefrom all taxes and current expenses of said property and trust :" Held,
That this was a contract to be enforced at law, against the parties individually, and not a trust to be enforced in a court of equity ; and that the
current expenses of the trust did not include the construction of fire-proof
buildings and unusual expenditures for protecting the property.

The defendant in error, administratrix, devisee, and legatee
of Charles Davis, deceased, was plaintiff in the court below.
The declaration alleged that on October 4th, 1861, the defendants, S. Staats Taylor and Edwin Parsons, trustees of the Cairo
City property, executed and delivered to Charles Davis, then
in life but since deceased, a contract in writing, of which the
following is a copy:
"Whereas Charles Davis, late one of the trustees of the Cairo
City property, has agreed to transfer to the present trustees of
said property, S. Staats Taylor and Edwin Parsons, at their request, all of said property remaining in his hands, without requiring previous payment of his demands against said property:
Now, in consideration of the premises, and of one dollar to us in
hand paid, we, S. Staats Taylor and Edwin Parsons, trustees of
the Cairo City property, hereby promise and agree to and with
the said Charles Davis, his executors, administrators, or assigns,
that we will apply, from time to time, to the payment of all the
just claims and demands of said Charles Davis against said Cairo
City property, including the sum of $7,382.60, audited October
1st, 1860, until the same shall be fully paid, all the moneys which

TAYLOR v. DAVIS.
Statement of Facts.
shall come and remain in our hands as trustees as aforesaid, after
first paying therefrom all taxes and current expenses of said property and trust actually imposed or incurred. But said claims and
demands of said Davis, his executors or administrators, shall not
be preferred to like claims of his co-trustee, John H. Wright.
"S. STAATS TAxon,
"October 4th, 1861.
"EDwrw

PARSONS,

"Trustees of the Cairo City Property."
The declaration further alleged that at the date of the execution and delivery of the contract there was due to Davis on
just claims and demands against the Cairo City property, which
had been audited and allowed, the sum of $7,382.60; that on
March 1st, 1867, Davis departed this life, leaving a last will
and testament, which was afterwards duly proven, whereby
he devised and bequeathed all his estate to the plaintiff; that
afterflards, on September 30th, 1867, the defendants, in consideration of the premises, executed and delivered to the plaintiff another contract, whereby they renewed and confirmed
the contract of October 4th, 1861, between them and Davis,
and agreed to pay the plaintiff, as his administratrix, the
amounts due his estate in the same manner and form as in the
instrument of October 4th, 1861, is particularly set forth; and
that although large sums of money had come into the hands
of the defendants as such trustees, over and above the amounts
necessary to pay all the taxes and current expenses of the prolerty and trust actually imposed or incurred, they had neglected
and refused to pay said sum of money or any part of it.
The defendants pleaded non-assumpsit. The parties waived
a trial by jury and submitted the issues of fact as well as of
law to the court, which made a special finding of facts upon
which it rendered judgment against the defendants in the sum
of $12,951.51, that being the principal sum due Davis from the
Cairo City property on October 4th, 1861, with interest from
that date.
To reverse that judgment a writ of error was sued out.
Yr. Wager Swayne for plaintiff in error.
.r.

J. Hubly A8hton for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
Mr. JusricE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.

The findings of the Circuit Court show the following facts:
The contracts of October 4th, 1861, and of September 30th,
1867, were executed and delivered by the plaintiffs in error, as
averred in the declaration; the said Charles Davis and one
Thomas S. Taylor had, previous to the execution of the firstmentioned instrument, been trustees of the Cairo City property
under and by virtue of a declaration of trust dated September
29th, 1846. That instrument, after reciting the conveyance to
Taylor and Davis of about nine thousand acres of land situate
in the State of Illinois at and near the confluence of the Mississippi and Ohio Rivers, declared that the property was held
in trust by them to, for, and upon the terms, conditions, uses,
interests, and purposes therein pointed out. The fourth section of the instrument defined the powers of the trustees as
follows:
"The said Taylor and Davis and their successors shall have
the general management and control of all the property aforesaid, and of the proceeds thereof, pay the taxes thereon when
in funds, and all the expenses incident to the creation and
execution of the trust hereby declared. They may make such
contracts, execute such instruments and obligations, employ such
agents and laborers, make such erections and improvements on
said lands, and such purchases and sales of real and personal
estate,
leases) donations, and investments as may be necessary
kand expedient
to promote the interests of the shareholders," &c.
The principal object of the co-owners of the land described
in the declaration of trust was to build a city thereon. In the
exercise of their powers the trustees caused"The erection of levees of sufficient size and height to protect
the city to be commenced; the old hotel was repaired; river
bank protected from abrasion; roads were cut through the timber ; part of the land cleared; a new hotel built at an expense to
the trust of about twenty thousand dollars, and grounds were laid
out for a cemetery; a steamboat was bought and run on the
business of this trust; a quarry operated, also a ferry; newspapers were established; the city and additions were platted;

TAYLOR v. DAVIS.
Opinion of the Court.

lots were donated as compensation to persons who assisted in protecting the property from adverse legislation ; wharves were constructed and improved; all these expenses were paid out of the
trust fund."
About September 1st, 1860, the plaintiffs in error were, by
regular conveyances, made the successors of Taylor and Davis
as trustees. By virtue of the powers expressed in the fourth
clause of the declaration of trust they executed the agreement
of October 4th, 1861, in order to obtain from Davis a transfer
of the trust estate.
In order to carry out the purposes of the trust, the plaintiffs
in error, on October 1st, 1863, borrowed $75,000, and on October 1st, 186T, $50,000, to secure which they executed mortgages
on all the real estate of the trust, which were afterwards foreclosed 6md the property sold, and the proceeds of the sale were
insufficient to pay the amount due on the mortgage by $17,,

572.27.
During the trusteeship of the plaintiffs in error they faithfully applied all the moneys received by them to the purposes
of the trust and in discharging what in their opinion were the
current expenses of the trust and in the exercise of a fair and
reasonable judgment therein. Between September 1st, 1860,
and the year 1874, the plaintiffs in error expended in" improvements on the trust property, imcluding the fire-proof:
office mentioned in the 8th finding, the sum of $298,226.91.
and during the same period the additional sum of $343,226.94
in building levees on the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers, and in
protecting the Mississippi River bank, and, as appears from the
accounts made part of the findings, much the greater part of
these sums were expended after October 4th, 1881. On Sel.
tember 30th, 1867, the time of the execution of the obligation
to the defendant in error and at the commencement of this
suit, they had no money of the trust fund in their hands,
but the fund was indebted to them in a sum exceeding $8,000.
This eighth finding establshed the following facts:
About the winter of 1863 and spring of 1864 the plaintiffs
in error, as trustees, erected, at a cost of about $35,000, a fire-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

proof office, which they deemed .to be absolutely necessary for
the safe keeping of the valuable papers and the transaction of
the business of the trust. But the court was of the opinion
that said expenditure was not the current expenses of the
trust.
The court further found that the plaintiffs in error "1at divers
days and dates in the years 1863, 1864, 1865, 1866, 1873, and
1874 had in their hands moneys belonging to said trust fund
sufficient to pay the amount due the plaintiff, after paying
therefrom all taxes on said trust property and the ordinary
expenses of said trust, as appears from the accounts herein contained; and that the plaintiff on divers occasions prior to the
bringing of this suit, and prior to January 1st, 1868, demanded
of the defendants payment of the amount due on said contract,
which was not paid."
Upon these facts the plaintiffs in error contend that the instruments sued on, construed in connection with the declaration
of trust and the administration of the trust estate by them,
create between the parties the relation of trustees and ceastui
qu tm8t, and that a court of law could not entertain jurisdiction of the suit against a trustee in his trust capacity, and that
the Circuit Court erred in rendering judgment against the
jplaintiffs in error in their individual capacity.
-Ii our opinion, the relation of trustees and cesmtuque trust
did not arise betwen the plaintiffs in error and Davis upon the
contract of October 4th, 1861. It is true the plaintiffs in error
are trustees of the Cairo City property, but they are not trustees for Davis or the administratrix of his estate. This is, in
substance, the case of trustees promising to repay money which
they had borrowed of a stranger for the benefit of the trust
estate. Their undertaking was subsequent to the time when
they assumed the duties of the trust. The declaration of trust
expressed fully the powers and duties of the trustees, and the
contract sued on did not and could not modify it. The defendant in error did not sue as a cestui que trust, or base her claim
on any trust, express or implied, undertaken by the plaintiffs
in error for her benefit.
A trustee is not an agent. An agent represents and acts for

TAYLOR v. DAVIS.
Opinion of the Court.

his principal, who may be either a natural or artificial person.
A trustee may be defined generally as a person in whom some
estate, interest, or power in or affecting property is vested for
the benefit of another. When an agent contracts in the name
of his principal, the principal contracts and is bound, but the
agent is not. When a trustee contracts as such, unless he is
bound no one is bound, for he has no principal. The trust
estate cannot promise; the contract is therefore the personal
undertaking of the trustee. As a trustee holds the estate,
although only with the power and for the purpose of managing
it, he is personally bound by the contracts he makes as trustee,
even when designating himself as such. The mere use by the
promisor of the name of trustee or any other name of office
or employment will not discharge him. Of course when a
trustee acts in good faith for the benefit of the trust, he is
entitled to indemnify hinself for his engagements out of the
estate in his hands, and for this purpose a credit for his expenditures will be allowed in his accounts by the court having
jurisdiction thereof.
If a trustee contracting for the benefit of a trust wants to
protect himself from individual liability on the contract, he
must stipulate that he is not to be personally responsible, but
that the other party is to look solely to the trust estate. There
are, no doubt, cases where persons occupy the position of quasi,
trustees, under the appointment of a court, such as receivers
charged with the performance of active duties, in which it
would involve much hardship to make them personally liable.
But in such cases, as the parties have the right to prove their
claims against the common fund, and have them allowed by
the court, the officer may have the protection of the court by
which he is appointed, restraining parties from bringing suita,
against him, except where leave is given for the purpose of
fixing the amount due. Barto v. Barbour, 104 U. S. 126.
In this case the contract is the personal contract of the plain-;
tiffs in error. Before it .was made the trust estate and the
plaintiffs in error, in their capacity of trustees, were already
bound for the debt due to Davis, and he had the right to keep
possession of the trust estate until he waspaid. It is clear,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

from the contract and the circumstances under which it was
made, that Davis consented to yield possession of the trust
property on condition that he received some security for his
payment other than the mere liability of the trust estate. He
therefore took the contract in suit, and yielded the possession
of the trust estate without exacting payment of his demands.
The designation of the plaintiffs in error as trustees in the
contract and in the pleadings was merely descriptive of their
persons. The contract was their personal undertaking. It is
true it was their promise to pay the claim of Davis out of the
trust funds. But this was simply a limitation upon the contract;
it was none the less their personal obligation. They personally
undertook to pay a conceded balance due to Davis, whenever
there should be a certain surplus of trust funds in their hands
sufficient for that purpose, and they are personallyliable for the
breach of their undertaking.
The case of -Duvagv. Craig, 2 Wheat. 45, supports these
views. The suit was an action at law upon the covenants of
warranty in a deed. The deed was executed by John Craig
and by Robert Johnson and Elijah Craig as his trustees. The
trustees described themselves as trustees of John Craig in the
granting clause of the deed and in the covenants of warranty,
and subscribed their names as such. The Circuit Court sustained a demurrer to the declaration. In this court it was contended for the defendant -in error that, Johnson and Elijah
Craig having covenanted as trustees, a court of equity was the
,only forum in which they could be sued, and that no individual
judgment could be rendered against them.
But the court, speaking by Mr. Justice Story, said:
"If a trustee chooses to bind himself by a personal covenant, he
is liable at law for a breach thereof in the same manner as any other
person, although he describes himself as covenanting as trustee,
for in such case the covenant binds him personally, and the addition
of the words ' as trustee' is but matter of description to show the
character in which he acts for his own protection, and in no degree
affects the rights or remedies of the other party." The court
added: "The reasoning upon* this point disposes also of the
second, that the covenant being made by Johnson and Elijah

TAYLOR v. DAVIS.
Opinion of the Court.

Craig as trustees, no individual judgment can be rendered against
them. It is plain . . there could have been no other judgment
rendered against them, for at law a judgment against a trustee in
such special capacity is utterly unknown."
The same learned judge, in his work on Promissory Notes,
declares:
"As to trustees, guardians, executors, and administrators, and
other persons acting en autre droit, they are by our law generally
held personally liable on promissory notes, because they have no
authority to bind ex direeto the persons for whom, or for whose
benefit, or for whose estate, they act, and hence, to give any validity
to the note, they must be deemed personally bound as makers."
ยง 63.

See also Thacher v. -Dinenore,5 Mass. 299 ; Forsterv. Fulker,
6 id. 58; HMll v. Bann e, 8 Cowen, 31; Baton v. BedZ, 5 B,
& Ald. 34.
The cases cited show that whether the obligation of a trustee
is under seal or not is an immaterial fact, so far as it concerns
his personal liability thereon.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the plaintiffs in error,
having assumed a personal liability, the suit was well brought
against them in a court of law, and that the court did not err
in rendering judgment against them in their individual capacity.
The next assignment of error is that the facts found by the
court do not sustain the judgment. The contention is that the
findings do not show that there was any surplus fund remaining in the hands of the trustees "after paying therefrom all taxes
and current expenses."
The findings of the court expressly state that in the yeax
1863, 1864, 1865, 1866, 1873, and 1874 the plaintiffs in erro
had in their hands moneys belonging to the trust fund sufficient
to. pay the amount due the defendant in error, after payina
therefrom all taxes on the trust property and the ordinary expenses of the trust. Thes6 findings are fully sustained by the
accounts therein referred to, unless there should be included in
the current expenses of the trust the large sums expended by
vT
o.

c-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

the trustees in the erection of the fire-proof office and other
improvements, and in building and protecting the levees. We
are of opinion that these and like expenditures are not current
expenses of the trust, within the meaning of the contract of
October Ath, 1861. By that contract even the payment of
taxes is not classed as among current expenses. If the expenditures referred to can be called expenses at all, they are
extraordinary expenses. In our view they are investments
of the capital of the Cairo City property, as much so as the
purchase of land or the construction of water works, gas works,
or a system of sewerage. It could scarcely have been the purpose of Davis, when he exacted from the plaintiffs in error the
contract of October 4th, 1861, in consideration of his yielding
possession of the trust property, on which he had a lien, and
from which he could have enforced immediate satisfaction of
his debt, to postpone its payment for an indefinite period, and
until the large sums which the plaintiffs in error expended in
substantial and permanent improvements on the trust property
had been paid. We think the correct interpretation of the
'phrase "current expenses" was that given it by the Circuit
'Court, namely, ordinary expenses. The contract of the plaintiffs in error being thus construed, their liability to the defendant in error upon the facts found is clear. We are of opinion
,thatthere is no error in the record. The judgment of the Circuit
Court is, therefore,

UNITED STATES v. BEHAlf.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIWS.
Submitted December 18th, 183.-Decided February 4th. 1834.

ContramtDasme-EsoeZA
'When one party enters upon the performance of a contract, and incurs expense
therein, and being willing to perform, is, without fault of his own, prevented by the other party from performing, his loss will consist of two dis.
tinct items of damage: 1st, his outlay and expenses, less the value of ma-

