ILLINOIS CENTRAL R.R CO. v. TURRILL

301

Syllabus

But they bought pendente lite, and by the well-known rule
on that subject, are bound by this decree. The suit was commenced December 5th, 1874, Haselton's answer filed April 14th,
1875, and the deed, though without date, from Haselton to the
company is acknowledged September 8th, 1875.
It is apparent also that during all the time Haselton was president of The Bartow Iron Company. The fact that the corporation was organized under the laws of another State does
not, under these circumstances, relieve it from the rule which
governs purchasers of property pending litigation about the
title.
We are of opinion that, as this case is presented to us, the
decree of the Chancery Court of Hamilton County, Tennessee,
is conclusive of the rights of all the parties to this suit.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the case iemanded to that courtforfurtherproceedingsin conformity

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v. TU-R:
RILL, Administratrix.
ICHIGAN SOUTHERN AND NORTHERN INDIANA
RAILROAD COA'fPANY . Same.
APPEA

FROM THE CIRCUIT CORT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS."
Argued January 11th, 14th, 1884.-Decided January 28th, 1884.

Aba emeni--Interest--Juclgment--Patent.
1. In 1876 a decree was made affirming the principles of a decree below in a
suit in equity for relief against infringement of a patent, but sending

the case back to ascertain and correct the amount of the damages,
on principles laid down by the court.

The master reported in 1879.

Hed, That under the circumstances it was equitable to allow interest on
the amount from the date of the report.
2. A suit in equity seeking relief against an infringement of a patent does not

abate by the death of the plaintiff, but may be prosecuted to final judgment by his legal representative.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court

M. George Payson for appellant.
XM. Lester L. Bond and X1. Cazunay Smitk for appellee.
CHIEF JusTicE WAIE delivered the opinion of the court.
The effect of the judgments in these cases, when here on the
former appeals, as reported under the name of the Cawood
Patent, 94 U. S. 695, was to affirm the decrees then appealed
from, so far as they charged these appellants respectively
with the profits made from the use of the infringing machines
known as the "Illinois Central" the "Etheridge," and the
"Whitcomb," and to reverse as to the profits made by the use
of the "Bayonet Vise," the "Ifichigan Southern," and the
"Bebee & Smith," which were adjudged to be non-infringing
inachines. The total amount of profits arising from the use of
all the machines, infringing and non-infringing, was settled,
and the judgment of the court was that the profits had prop,erly been estimated by comparing the cost of mending on the
machines with the cost of mending on a common anvil. This
was found to be about thirty-six cents per foot mended;
in favor of the machines. Nothing was left open for further inquiry but the amounts of the former recoveries for
the use of the non-infringing machines. It was quite right,
therefore, for the Circuit Court, when the cases went back, to
direct the master to ascertain from the old evidence, if possible,
and, if not, from new, how much should be deducted from the
old decrees on account of the erroneous recoveries. The true
way of determining this clearly was to find out what part
of the profits for which the original decrees were rendered
had been made by the use of the non-infringing machines.
This the master attempted to do, and in the case of the Illinois
Central Company there is no doubt in our minds that the conclusion lie reached was entirely correct. In fact, we do not
understand that this is disputed. It is argued that a sufficient
allowance was not made in the accounting for cut rails; but
that question was settled by the original decree, and could not
be re-examined on this reference. The inquiry now is limited
to the amount of mending done by the use of the non-infringing
machines and its comparative cost.
M-.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL R.R. CO. v. TURRILL.

303

Opinion of the Court.
In the case of the Michigan Southern and Northern Indiana
Company, the evidence is not as satisfactory as in that of the
Illinois Central The shop books in which the accounts for repairing rails were kept, if kept at all, were not produced, and
had probably been destroyed as of no value before the accounting took place. In their absence it is difficult to determine with
accuracy what the facts were, but upon full consideration we
are satisfied the Circuit Court did not in its decree under-estimate
the amount of deduction to be made in favor of this company.
In making up the decree interest was added from the date
of the master's report on the balances found due after the
ascertained deductions had been made, and this is assigned for
error. As a general rule a patentee is not entitled to interest
on profits made by an infringer. The reason is that profits are
v..Booth,
regarded in the light of unliquidated damages. Pas
102 U. S. 96, but in many of the cases itis said that circumstances
may arise in which it would be proper to add interest. Xfowry
v. Whitney, 14 Wall 620; Litt&Afe d v. Peny, 21 Wall. 205.
Here, as has been seen, in effect, the original decrees rendered.
in July, 1874, were affined in 1876, to the extent of the present recoveries. The cases were only sent back to ascertain
how much should be deducted from those decrees for errors
in the accounts as then stated. If the decrees had been entered
originally for the present amounts, the patentee would have
been entitled to interest from 1874. That was settled in Rail,roadComxmay v. Tur'ill, 101 U. S. 836, which was one of the
cases affirmed in whole at the former hearing in this court.
Under these circumstances, it seems to us not at all inequitable
to allow interest on the corrected amounts from the date of the
master's report in 1879. The cases are entirely different in this
particular from what they would have been if the original decrees had been reversed for error in the principles of the accounting. Those decrees may very properly be considered as aflirmed
in part and reversed in part, the new reference being had only
to find out the exact extent of the reversals.
Since the present appeals were taken the patentee has died,
and the appellants now suggest that the causes of action do not
survive, and the suits cannot be further prosecuted in the name

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

of the legal representatives of the decedent. As to this, it is
sufficient to say that what was called by Chief Justice Marshall,
in Gordon v. Ogden, 3 Pet. 33, "the silent practice of the
court" has always been the other way. It is every-day practice to revive such suits, and the books are full of cases in which
this has been silently done, no one apparently entertaining a
doubt of its propriety.
The decree in eacl of the cases is afflrned.
Mm. JUST=E BrcnonOU did not sit in these cases and took

no part in their decision.

WABASH, ST. LOUIS & PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. KNOX.
In ERROR TO THE o

RUIT COURT OF THE UNI

STATES FOP T.E

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLIMOIS.
Submitted January 14th, 1884.-Decided January 2th, 1834.

When the amount in dispute in this court is less than $5,00D the court cannot

take jurisdiction.

Motion to dismiss.
-. r. Y WVarner for the motion and for defendant in error.
Nt

HmF JusTioE WArr= delivered the opinion of the court.

The judgment in this case was for $5,237.15, but the record
shows in many ways that of this amount $727.42 was admitted
to be due. A formal tender of that sum was made on the 26th
of February, 1883, and the money deposited in court for Knox,
the plaintiff, where it remained until the 14th of March, nine
days after the judgment was rendered, when it was withdrawn
by the railroad company, without prejudice, on the order of
the court and with the consent and agreement of Knox. The
bill of exceptions also shows an admitted liability of the company for the amount of the tender. The case is, therefore, in
all material respects, like that of Tintsznw v. NalionaZ Ban77
100 U. S. 6, where the writ was dismissed, although the judg-

