CASES ADJUDGED
1WNTIE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.

GOODWIN & Wife v. COLORADO MORTGAGE INVESTMENT COMPANY OF LONVDON (Limited).
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Submitted December 20th, 188.-Decided January 7th, 1884.

Colorado-Corpoaffo-Husbandand Wife.-Pleadings.
1. A certificate signed and acknowledged by the president and secretary of a
foreign corporation, and filed with the Secretary of State and in the
office of the recorder of deeds for the county in which it is proposed to carry
on business, stating that "thi principal place where the business shall be
carried on in the State of Colorado shall be at Denver, in the County of
Arapahoe, in said State, and that the general manager of said corporation, residing at the said principal place of business, is the agent upon
whom process may be served in all suits that may be commenced against
said corporation," is a sufficient compliance with the requirements of the
Constitution and laws of Colorado in that respect.
2. The separate plea of a married woman which sets up the homestead law oA
Colorado as a defence against an action for the recovery of real estate is
bad if it fails to aver that the word "homestead" is written on the margin of the recorded title of the premises occupied as a homestead; as required by law, even if it also aver a defective acknowledgment by the
wife.

Action to recover possession of land. The plaintiffs claimed
title through a sale under decree of foreclosure of a mortgage
1

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

of the premises executed by the defendants. Several defences
were interposed, but the assignment of errors related only to
the following. The defendant Elizabeth Goodwin, in her
amended separate answer, answered:
"That at the time of execution of the said mortgage deed, the
plaintiff well knew that said lands and premises were occupied by
the said Harrison and Elizabeth as their homestead ; and that
the said Harrison was a householder, and that this defendant was
the lawful wife of the said Harrison and residing with him."

The plaintiff demurred to this plea and the demurrer was
sustained. This was one assigned error.
An amended joint answer made the following averments:
"And the said defendants in fact say that the said plaintiff
long before and at the time of the execution of the said pretended deed conveyance of the said Harrison Goodwin unto the
said David H. Maffat, jr., was and still is a foreign corporation, not
organized or existing under any law of the State of Colorado, but
organized and existing under the statutes'of the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Ireland, and being such foreign corporation
the said plaintiff, on or about the 29th day of August, A. D. 1877,
caused to be 'filed in the office of the Secretary of State of the
said State of Colorado and in the office of the recorder of
Arapahoe County a certain certificate in words and figures as follows, to wit:
We, the undersigned, president and secretary of the Colorado
Mortgage and Investment Company of London (Limited), hereby
certify that the principal place where the business of said corporation shall be carried on in the State of Colorado shall be at
Denver, in the County of Arapahoe, in said State, and that the
general manager of said corp'oration residing at the said principal
place of business is the agent upon whom process may be served
in all suits that may be commenced against said corporation.
[Here follow the signatures and acknowledgment.]
And save as aforesaid the said plaintiff hath never at any time
hitherto caused to be filed with the Secretary of the State of Colorado, nor in the office of the recorder of any county in said
State, any certificate signed by the-president and secretary of

GOODWIN v. COLORADO MORTGAGE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

said plaintiff, or acknowledged, designating the principal place
where the business of the said corporation shall be carried on in
this State, or any authorized agent in this State, residing at its
principal place of business, upon whom process may be served,
nor hath plaintiff at any time hereto filed in the office of the recorder of deeds of the said County of Boulder, any such certificate whatsoever signed by the president or secretary of the said
plaintiff, designating the principal place where the business of
said plaintiff will be carried on in this State, or any authorized
agent or agents in this State, residing at its principal place of
business upon whom process may be served-and the defendants
say that the said pretended conveyance of the said Harrison so
assumed and pretended to be executed to the said David H. Maffatt, Jr., was executed and delivered at the said County of Boulder and not elsewhere, and the moneys therein recited to be
payable to the plaintiff, were moneys by the said plaintiff lent to
the said Harrison at the said County of Boulder, contrary to the
constitution of the State of Colorado, and the statute in such
case made and provided.
Plaintiffs demurred to all of this answer, save the last paragraph, which demurrer was sustained. This was also assigned as
error.

Judgment being rendered for plaintiff, defendants sued out
their writ of error.
XM-. . T7. WeZ/s for plaintiffs in error.

No appearance for defendant in error.
:Nm JusrcE HAL&w delivered the opinion of the court.
The Colorado Mortgage and Investment Company of London (Limited), a corporation organized under the laws of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, brought this
action against Harrison Goodwin and Elizabeth Goodwin, his
wife, to recover the possession of certain real estate in Colorado, and damages for withholding the same. In conformity
with a written stipulation by the parties, the case was tried by
the court without the intervention of a jury, and judgment
rendered for the plaintiff.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

The lands in controversy were conveyed by Harrison Goodvin to David H. Maffat, jr., in trust to secure certain promissory notes executed by the grantor to the plaintiff, and made
payable at Denver, Colorado. The deed provided that in case
of default in the payment of the principal or interest of either
of the notes, the trustee, on application in writing of the legal
holder of the notes, might sell the premises at public auction,
after giving four weeks' previous notice of the time and place
of sale by advertisement in any newspaper published in Boulder
County (where, as we infer, the lands lie), and from the proceeds pay the principal and interest of the notes, whether due
and payable by the tenor thereof or not.
There was such default, and under the authority given by
the deed of trust the lands were sold, the plaintiff becoming
the purchaser, and receiving a conveyance therefor from the
trustee.
The wife of Goodwin filed a separate answer, in which,
among other things, it is alleged, that at the time of the execution of the deed of trust, the premis6s in controversy were,
as plaintiff well knew, occupied by her husband and herself as
their homestead,,and that her husband was a householder. By
these allegations it was intended to question the validity, under the laws of Colorado, of the sale of the premises, in pur,suance of the before-mentioned deed of trust.
The statutes of Colorado, General Laws of Colorado, 1817,
ch. 46, provide that every householder in that State,
"being the head of a family, shall be entitled to a homestead not
exceeding in value the sum of $2,000, exempt from execution and
attachment arising from any debt, contract, or civil obligation
entered into or incurred after the first day of February, in the
year of our Lord 1868" § 1 ; that "to entitle any person to the
benefits of this act, he shall cause the word 'homestead' to be entered of record on the margin of his recorded title to the same"
§ 2 ; that "such homestead shall only be exempt, as provided in
the first section of this act, while occupied as such by the owner
thereof or his or her family" § 3 ; that "when any person dies
seized of a homestead, leaving a widow,

.

. such widow

GOODWIN ij. COLORADO MORTGAGE CO.
Opinion of the Court,
shall be entitled to the homestead" § 4 ; and that "nothing in this act shall be construed to prevent the owner and occupier of any homestead from voluntarily mortgaging the same:
.Provided,no such mortgage shall be binding against the wife of
any married man who may be occupying the premises with him,
unless she shall freely and voluntarily, separate and apart from
her husband, sign and acknowledge the same, and the officer taking such acknowledgment shall fully apprise her of her rights and
the effect of signing such mortgage" § 6.
The assignments of error do not present any question as to the
sufficiency of that part of Mrs. Goodwin's answer which impeaches the truth of the officer's certificate of her acknowledgment of the trust deed. But had they done so, it is sufficient,
upon this branch of the case, to say that no one is entitled to
the benefits of the foregoing statutory provisions unless the
word "homestead" be entered on the margin of the recorded
title of the premises occupied as a homestead. Such are the
express words of the statute, and there is no room left for construction. We are not at liberty to say that the legislature
intended actual notice to creditors of the occupancy of particular premises as a homestead to be equivalent to the entry on
the record of title of the word "homestead." The requirement that the record of the title shall show that the premises
are occupied as a homestead before any person can become
entitled to the benefits of the statute, is absolute and unconditional. As the answer of Mrs. Goodwin did not show a
compliance, in that respect, with the statute, it was fatally
defective.
The Constitution of Colorado provides, Art. XY. § 10, that
"no foreign corporation shall do any business in this [that] State
without one or more known places of business, and an authorized
agent or agents in the same, upon whom process may be served."
The statutes of the State provide that
"foreign corporations shall, before they are authorized or per-

mitted to do any business in this State, make and file a certificate

6

OCTOBER TERM

1883.

Opinion of the Court.
signed by the president and secretary of such corporation, duly
acknowledged, with the Secretary of State and in the office of the
recorder of deeds of the county in which such business is carried
on, designating the principal place where the business of such corporation shall be carried on in this State, and an authorized agent
or agents in this State, residing at its principal place of business,
upon whom process may be served." General Laws of Colorado,
1877, ch. 19, § 23.
Prior to the execution of the before-mentioned deed of trust
or of the notes secured by it, the plaintiff caused to be filed in
the office of the Secretary of State of Colorado and in the office
of the recorder of Arapahoe County, a certificate signed by its
president and secretary, and duly acknowledged, which stated
"that the principal place where the business of said corporation
shall be carried on in the State of Colorado shall be at Denver, in
the county of Arapahoe, in said State, and that the general manager of said corporation, residing at the said principal place of
business, is the agent upon whom process may be served in all
suits that may be commenced against [said] corporation."
The contention of plaintiffs in error is that this certificate is
materially defective, in that it does not designate the particular
individual by name upon whom, as the agent of the corporation,
process may be served; that until this foreign corporation fied
such a certificate as the statute required, it was prohibited by the
Constitution and laws of Colorado from doing any business in
that State; and, consequently, that this deed of trust, executed
and delivered in Colorado, and upon which its title to the
premises in controversy rests, was void.
We are of opinion that the certificate in question was in
substantial conformity to the law. The requirement of the
statute was met by the designation of the "general manager"
of the corporation, residing at its principal place of business, as
agent to receive service of process. It was not necessary, as
we think, to give the name of the particular person who happened, at the date of the certificate, to fill that position. The
object of the statute could be best subserved by a certificate of

MARTIN v. WEBB.
Syllabus.

the character filed, for the obvious reason that the death or
resignation of the incumbent would not long interfere with the
bringing of suits against the corporation. Had there been,
when the certificate was filed, no such officer of the corporation
as a general manager, there would have been ground to contend
that it had not performed the condition essential to its authority
to do business in the State. But the answer makes no claim of
that kind, but assumes that it was necessary to give the name
of some individual upon whom process against the corporation
might be served. We do not concur in this construction of the
statute.
None of the points made by counsel for plaintiffs in error
can be sustained, and the judgment must be affirmed.
It is so ordered.

MARTIN, Sheriff, & Others v. WEBB & Others, Trustees.
I

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
VESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURL

Submitted December 7th, 1883.-Decided January 7th, 1884.

Contract-Estope-Evdenwe-Principta and Agent.
1. Although a cashier of a bank ordinarily has no power to bind the bank except
in the discharge of his customary duties ; and although the ordinary business of a bank does not comprehend a contract made by a cashier without
delegation of power from the board of directors, involving the payment of
money not loaned by the bank in the customary way ; nevertheless : (1.) A
banking corporation, whose charter does not otherwise provide, may be
represented by its cashier in transactions outside of his ordinary duties,
without his authority to do so being in writing, or appearing in the records
of the proceedings of the directors. (2.) His authority may be by parol and
collected from circumstances or implied from the conductor acquiescence
of the directors. (3.) It may be inferred from the general manner in which,
for a period sufficiently long to establish a settled course of business, he has
been suffered by the directors, without interference or inquiry, to conduct
the affairs of the bank ; and (4.) When, during a series of years, or in numerous business transactions, he has been permitted, in his oicial capacity
and without objection, to pursue a particular course of conduct, it -may
be presumed, as between the bank and those who in good faith deal with
it upon the basis of his authority to represent the corporation, that he has

