IRWIN v. WILLIAR.
Statement of Facts.

IRWIN v. WILLIAR & Another.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE TUNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
Argued October 17th, 18th, 18.-Decided March 3d, 1884.
Contract-Partnership--.PncipaZ
and Agent- Wagers.
A contract of partnership for the buying of grain, both wheat and corn, and
its manufacture into flour and meal, and the sale of such grain as might
accumulate in excess of that required for manufacturing, and the use,
with the knowledge of all the partners in the partnership business, of cards
and letter-heads describing the firm as millers and dealers in grain, do not
necessarily imply as matter of law authority to deal in the partnership name
in futures by means of conticts of sale or purchase for purposes of speculating upon the course of the market, and to bind the partnership thereby.
Dealing in futures by means of contracts of sale or purchase for purposes of
speculating upon the course of the market, is not as matter of law an essential characteristic of every business to which the name of dealing in grain
may properly be assigned.
If under guise of a contract to deliver goods at a future day the real intent be
to speculate in the rise or fall of prices, and the goods are not to be delivered, but one party is to pay to the other the difference between the contract
price and the market price of the koods at the date fixed for executing the
contract, the whole transaction is nothing more than a wager, and is null
and void.
When a broker is privy to such a wagering contract, and brings the parties tpgether for the very purpose of entering into the illegal agreement, he is
?partkeps cnminis, and cannot recover for services rendered or losses incurred by himself in forwardifig the transaction.
Generally, in this country, wagering contracts are held to be illegal and void
as against public policy.
A custom among brokers in the settlement of differences which works a substantial and material change in the principal's rights or obligations is not
binding upon the principal without his assent; and that assent can be implied only from knowledge of the custom which it is claimed authorizes it.

The defendants in error were plaintiffs below, and brought
this action against the plaintiff mierror, as surviving partner of
the firm of Irwin & Davis, to recover a balance alleged to be
due, growing out of certain sales of wheat for future delivery,
claimed to have been made by the defendants in error for the
firm of Irwin & Davis upon their order. The liability of the
plaintiff in error was denied on two grounds: 1. That the trans-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

actions were made by Davis, the deceased partner, without the
knowledge, assent or authority of the plaintiff in error, and
were not within the scope of the partnership business; and 2.
That the sales were wagering contracts and void.
The bill of exceptions showed that there was evidence on the
trial tending to prove the following state of fact:
Irwin, the plaintiff in error, and Davis, who died in October,
1877, became partners in 1872 in the ownership and operation
of a flouring-mill and appurtenances at Brazil, Clay County,
Indiana. Their contract of partnership contemplated the buying of grain-both wheat and corn-and its manufacture into
flour and meal, and the sale of such grain as might accumulate
in excess of that required for manufacturing; and did not contemplate, as between themselves, the buying and selling of
grain in large quantities for speculation. The capacity of the
mill did not exceed sixty barrels of flour per day; its average
manufacture was thirty. The working capital of the firm
varied from $2,000 to $4,000. Irwin resided at Butler, in
Pennsylvania, and visited Brazil rarely. Appurtenant to the
mill was a warehouse, for the storage of grain, equipped with
appliances for loading and unloading grain, in bulk, into and
from railroad cars. Soon after the formation of the partnership, and as a part of its business, Davis, in its name, began and
continued to ship corn and oats to Indianapolis, and corn and
flour to Baltimore, for sale and immediate delivery, in consignments not exceeding $1,000 each in value; and in the year 18T5
several such consignments had been made to the defendants in
error at Baltimore for sale on account of the firm by Davis.
In all their business correspondence, including that with the
defendants in error, who were commission merchants and grain
brokers in Baltimore, the cards and letter-heads were as follows:
"Brazil Flouring Mills, Irwin & Davis, millers and dealers in
grain, Brazil, Ind." This letter-head was used with the knowledge of Irwin, who, however, had no knowledge of any transactions by Davis, on account of the firm, in the purchase or -ale
of grain for future delivery. Prior to 1877, in point of fact,
Davis had given no orders for the purchase of grain in Baltimore, or any Eastern market, and during that year, in the

IRWIN v. WILLIAR.
Statement of Facts.

months of July, August and September, he shipped to, defendants in error thirty-one car loads of wheat, of about three
hundred and eighty.bushels each, for sale, which was accounted
for.
The transactions which form the subject of this suit were as
follows: On July 12th, 1877,Davis, by cipher telegrams and
letters, gave an order to defendants in error to sell 20,000 bushels of wheat for deliveir in August, and followed that up with
similar orders until the last, on September 3d, a period of fiftythree days, making an aggregate of 30,000 bushels for delivery
in August, 105,000 bushels in September, and 30,000 bushels in
October, in all 165,000 bushels. These orders.were reported by
the defendants in error as executed at the prices named, amounting in gross to $251,794.81. At or before maturity these contract of sale were settled by defendants in error on account of
Davis and Irwin according to the custom of the Corn and Flour
Exchange in Baltimore, of which the former were members, at
and through the members of which substantially all the business of buying and selling grain at that city was done. In
these settlements the differences between the prices at which the
wheat had been sold and those which the brokers would have
been compelled to pay, or did pay, as the market prices, at the
time of settlement, for wheat to deliver or in fact delivered in
execution of the sales, amounted to $17,217.95, which was the
balance sued for and recovered in this action. Davis did not
consign or deliver to defendants in error any of the wheat so
contracted to be sold on their account, although he had during
the same period consigned other wheat to defendants in error,
as above stated, but which, pursuant to orders given at the
time, had been sold on arrival, but not applied on contracts of
sale for future delivery. The defendants in error actually delivered on account of Davis and Irwin about 40,000 bushels of
wheat on their contracts, which they purchased in open market
for that purpose, but as to the rest, settled by paying the differences between the contract and market prices.
There was evidence tending to show that among the general
usages and customs obtaining at Baltimore among grain commission merchants were the following, which were well known

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

and which had long existed and been uniformly observed among
the members of said Corn and Flour Exchange and others
engaged in the buying and selling of grain on commission at
said city, viz.:
1st. That a commission merchant buying or selling grain
upon the order of a customer for future delivery entered into
such contract in his own name, thereby becoming personally
responsible to the party with whom he contracted for the performance of the contract, the name of his principal being never,
or but rarely, disclosed.
2d. That such commission merchant held himself and stood
responsible to his principal or customer for the performance by
the other party with whom he entered into such contract of
purchase or sale of such contract, and for making good the
contract to his principal in case of the insolvency or JefauIt
from any cause of such other party.
3d. That purchases or sales to 1111 orders of customers are
usually made on the floor of the Corn and Flour Exchange, by
open public offer to the members of the board there assembled.
That when itso occurs as that a commission merchant, who upon
the order of one customer has sold to (or vice versa purchased
from) another commission merchant grain for a certain future
delivery, and afterwards, upon the order of another customer,
buys (or vice versa sells) a like amount of like grain for the
same future delivery, from (or to) the same commission
merchant, the two commission merchants as between themselves set off one contract against the other and mutually
surrender ,or cancel them, settling between them the difference
in price, each substituting on his books in the place and stead
of the other the new or second customer, upon whose order he
made the second purchase or sale. Thus if commission
merchant A, upon the order of his customer X, has sold grain
for a designated future delivery to commission merchant B,
and afterwards upon the order of customer Y, buys like grain
for like delivery from B, A and B adjust the difference, cancel
their contracts, and surrender any margins that may have been
put up by them, and in such case A substitutes his second customer Y in place of B, so that the grain he had sold on the

IRWIN v. WILLIAR.
Statement of Facts.

order of X would be delivered to Y instead of to B; A standing as guarantor to Y that X will deliver the grain, and to X
that Y will receive and pay for it, and that X shall receive
the full price at which the grain had been contracted to B.
4th. That where such second transaction is not with the same
commission merchant with whom the first had occurred, but
a different one, and it is found that a circuit of like contracts
exists, by which commission merchant A has sold grain to
merchant B, who has sold like grain to 0, who has made like
sale to A, the commission merchants settle as among themselves by what is called a "ring." The parties in such case do
not make successive deliveries until the grain comes round
again to the commission merchant from whom it started, nor
does each buyer pay the full amount of his purchase money to
his immediate seller, but receives or pays, as the case may be,
the amount of the net profit he would have received or of net
loss he would have sustained if the settlement had not been
made by a "ring."
In such case all margins put up by the commission merchants
are restored, the contracts surrendered, and the contracts or
orders of their undisclosed principals, upon whose instructions
they had eAtered into those contracts, are held in lieu of the
contracts so surrendered, each commission merchant being responsible to each of his customers for performance by the other.
The settlements of differences, made by defendants in error
on account of Davis and Irwin, were made in pursuance of these
customs, but there was no evidence that Davis and Irwin had
any actual knowledge of them.
There was evidence also tending to prove that Irwin had
no knowledge of the transactions between iDavis and the defend
ants in error until after they had been completed.
On the trial it was claimed on behalf of the defendant below
that the transactions in question were not authorized by the
partnership agreement, that they were not in the regular course
of the partnership business, and were not within its apparent
scope.
On that point, among other things, the Circuit Court charged
the jury.as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Cour.
"4. If Irwin permitted Davis to hold himself and Irwin out to
the world as partners in the business of dealing in grain, he became liable with Davis on contracts for the sale and purchase of
grain for future delivery, and in that case it is not material that
Irwin should have actual knowledge of particular sales or purchases in the firm name; and if Irwin knew that Davis was holding the firm out as dealers in grain, and did not protest or give
public notice to the contrary, he is responsible as partner for all
contracts made by Davis in the firm name, within the apparent
scope of the business of dealing in grain. If Davis, as partner,
did in fact buy and sell grain, and if in his correspondence with
customers and others, including the plaintiffs, he employed printed
letter-heads or cards representing the firm of Irwin & Davis as
grain dealers, this was a holding out of that firm as a partnership
engaged in that business, and if before and at the time of the
dealings with the plaintiffs, Irwin knew that the firm was thus
held out as grain dealers, he is liable as a partner. If, therefore,
you believe from the evidence that Irwin & Davis held themselves
out as dealers in grain as well as in. flour, and that plaintiffs dealt
with Davis, supposing they were dealing with the firm, and in so
doing advanced their own money in fulfilling such contracts, you
should find for the plaintiffs in whatever sum the evidence may
show them to be entitled to on account of such advanbements,
unless you think the defendant has shown that the transactions
between the plaintiffs and Irwin & Davis were gambling transactions."
This was excepted to, and was assigned for error.
M;p. John -..

Buter for plaintiff in error.

._31,. J. A. Hendricks and 21r. C Baker for defendants in
error.

Mn. JUSTICE MAITTHwS delivered the opinion of the court.
After reciting the facts in the foregoing language, he continued:
The proposition contained in this charge is that the business
of dealing in grain, no matter how much it may be restricted
by agreement between the partners, and no matter how it may
have been qualified by the actual practice of the firm, necessa.

IRWIN v. WILLIAR.
Opinion of the Court.

rily authorizes each partner to bind the others by unknown
contracts in distant markets for unlimited sales and purchases
of grain for future delivery. And so the jury must have understood it; fok they were told that "if Irwin permitted Davis
to hold himself and Irwin out to the world as partners in the
business of dealing in grain, he became liable with Davis on
contracts for the sale and purchase of grain for future delivery,
and in that case it'is not material that Irwin should have actual
knowledge of particular sales or purchases in the firm name;"
and "if Davis, as partner, did in fact buy and sell grain, and
if, in his correspondence with customers and others, including
the plaintiffs, he employed printed letter-heads or cards representing the firm of Irwin & Davis as grain dealers, this was a
holding out of that firm as a partnership engaged in that business ;" and "if, therefore, ybu believe from the evidence that
Irwin & Davis held themselves out as dealers in grain as well
as in flour, and that the plaintiffs dealt with Davis, supposing
they were dealing with the flirm, &c., you should find for the
plaintiffs," &c. This was equivalent to directing the jury to
find a verdict for the plaintiffs in the action, for the only facts
to which their attention was directed as material were not disputed, 'viz., that the firm had been in the habit of buying and
selling grain, and had constantly used letter-heads describing
themselves as dealers in grain.
In this, we think, there was error. The liability of one partner, for acts and contracts done and made by his copartners,
without his actual knowledge or assent, is a question of agency.
If the authority is denied by the actual agreement between the
partners, with notice to the party who claims under it, there is
no partnership obligation. If the contract of partnership is
silent, or the party with whom the dealing has taken place has
no notice of its limitations, the authority for each transaction
may be implied from the nature of the business according to
the usual and ordinary course in which it is carried on by those
engaged in it in the locality which is its seat, or as reasonably
necessary or fit for its successful prosecution. If it cannot be
found in that, it may still be inferred from the actual though
exceptional course and conduct of the business of the partner-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

ship itself, as personally carried cn with the knowledge, actual
or presumed, of the partner sought to be charged.
In the present case the partnership agreement cannot affect
the question, because it is not claimed on the one-hand that it
conferred actual authority to make the transactions in dispute,
nor, on the other, that the defendants in error had any notice
of its limitations.
And so, too, any implication that might have arisen from a
previous course of business of this character, carried on by
Davis with the knowledge of Irwin, must be rejected, for it is
not claimed that any foundation in proof existed for it.
The only remaining ground for the implied authority by
which it can be claimed that Irwin was bound by the contracts
of his partner is that arising from the intrinsic nature of the
business in which the partnership was actually engaged, or
from the usual and ordinary course of conducting it at the
locality where it was carried on.
What the nature of that business in each case is, what is
necessary and proper to its successful prosecution, what is involved in the usual and ordinary course of its management by
those engaged in it, at the place and time where it is carried
on, are all questions of fact to be decided by the jury, from a
consideration of all the circumstances which, singly or in combination, affect its character or determine its peculiarities, and
from them all, giving to each its due weight, it is its province
to ascertain and say whether the transaction in question is one
which those dealing with the firm had reason to believe was
authorized by all its members. The difficulty and duty of
drawing the inference suitable to each case from all its circumstances cannot be avoided or supplied by affixing or ascribing
to the business some general name, and deducing from that, as
a matter of law, the rights of the public and the duties of the
partners. Dealing in grain is not a technical phrase from
which a court can properly infer as matter of law authority to
bind the firm in every case irrespective of its circumstances;
and if, by usage, it has acquired a fixed and definite r .3ing,
as a word of art in trade, that is matter of fact to be :tab 1
lished by proof and found by a jury. It may mean one thing

IRWIN v. "WILLIAR.
Opinion of the Court.

at Brazil in Indiana, another at Baltimore. It may not be the
same when standing alone with what it is in connection with
a flouring-Hi in a small interior town. It may mean dealing
in grain on hand for present delivery for cash or on credit,
or it may mean, also, dealing in futures by means of contracts
of sale or purchase for purposes of speculating upon the course
of the market. We are quite clear that the latter feature of the
business, as it may sometimes be prosecuted, is not as matter
of law an essential characteristic of every business to which
the name of dealing in grain may be properly assigned. And
yet this is distinctly what in the present case was given to the
jury as the law, and in that respect the Circuit Court erred.
As the judgment now under review would have to be reversed for the error just pointed out, it is not necessary for the
purpose of disposing of the present writ of error to proceed
further to examine other assignments; but as the case must be
remanded for a new trial, in which the remaining questions
may again arise, it seems appropriate now to dispose also of
them.
It was contended on the part of the defendant below, that
the transactions on which the suit was founded were void as
wagering transactions.
On this point, the court charged the jury as follows.,
"5. If you find that the dealings with the plaintiffs were within the scope of the partnership, you will next consider whether
the dealings were gambling transactions. The burden of showing that the parties were carrying on a wagering business, and
were not engaged in legitimate trade or speculation, rests upon
the defendant. On their face these transactions are legal, and the
law does not, in the absence of proof, presume that parties are
gambling.
"A person may make a contract for the sale of personal
property for future delivery which he has n6t got. Merchants
and trnders often do this. A contract for the sale of personal
prope~fyIlwhich the vendor does not own or possess, but expects
to obtdin by purchase or otherwise, is binding if an actual transfer of property is contemplated. A transaction which on its face

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
is legitimate cannot be held void as a wagering contract by showing that one party only so understood and meant it to be.
"The proof must go further, and show that this understanding
was mutual-that both parties so understood the transaction. If,
however, at the time of entering into a contract for a sale of personal property for future delivery it be contemplated by both parties that at the time fixed for delivery the purchaser shall merly
receive or pay the difference between the contract and the market price, the transaction is a wager, and nothing more. It
makes no difference that a bet or wager is made to assume-the
form of a contract. Gambling is none the less such because it is
carried on in the form or guise of legitimate trade.
"6. It is not sufficient for the defendant to prole that Irwin
& Davis never understood that they were to deliver wheat in
fulfilment of the sales made for them by the plaintiffs. The
presumption is, that the plaintiffs expected Irwin & Davis t6
execute their contracts, expected them to deliver the amount of
grain sold, and before you can find that the sales were gambling
transactions and void, you must find from the proof that the
plaintiffs knew or had reason to believe that Irwin & Davis
contemplated nothing but a wagering transaction, and acted for
them accordingly. If the plaintiffs made sales of wheat for Irwin
& Davis for future delivery, understanding that these contracts
would be filled by the delivery of grain at the time agreed upon,
Irwin & Davis were liable to the plaintiffs, even though they
meant to gamble, and nothing more."
No objection seems to be made to this charge, so far as it
defines what constitutes a wagering contract, and we accept it
as a correct statement of the law upon that point.
The generally accepted doctrine in this country is, as stated
by Mr. Benjamin, that a contract for the sale of goods to be
delivered at a future day is valid, even though the seller has not
the goods, nor any other means of getting them than to go into
the market and buy them; but such a contract is only valid
when the parties really intend and agree that the goods are to
be delivered by the seller and the price to be paid by the buyer;
and, if under guise of such a contract, the real intent be merely
to speculate in the rise or fall of prices, and the goods are not

IRWIN v. WILIAR.
Opinion of the Court.

to be delivered, but one party is to pay to the other the difference
between the contract price and the market price of the goods
at the date fixed for executing the contract, then the whole
transaction constitutes nothing more than a wager, and is null
and void. And this is now the law in England by force of the
statute of 8. & 9 Vict. c. 109, s. 18, altering the common law
in that respect. Benjamin on Sales, % 541, 542, and notes to
4th Am. Ed. by Bennett.
In Reed v. Anderson, 48 L. T. N. S. 74, the defendant was
nevertheless adjudged liable to refund to the plaintiff the
amount lost by the latter by a bet on a horse race, made in his
own name, but for the defendant, at his request; and this was
followed in Tnacker v. Hardy, 4:Q. B. D. 685. There the
plaintiff was employed by the defendant as a broker to spec"ulate for him on the Stock Exchange. It was never intended
between the parties that the defendant should take up the contracts into which the plaintiff entered on his behalf, but the
plaintiff was to arrange matters so that nothing but "differences" should be actually payable to or by the defendant.
The plaintiff having entered into such contracts on the defendant's behalf, in respect of which he became, by the rules of the
Stock Exchange, personally liable, he sued the defendant for his
commissions and for indemnity against the liability he had incurred. It was held that the agreement between the plaintiff
and defendant was not a gaming contract, within the meaning
of the statute. The case was distinguished from Griewood v.
BRane, 11 0. B. 526, which was an action on a contract for the
future delivery of railway shares, in which Jervis, 0. J., left it
to the jury to say "what was the plaintiff's intention and what
was the defendant's intention at the time of making the contracts, whether either party really meant to purchase or to sell
the shares in question, telling them that if they did not, the contract was, in his opinion, a gambling transaction and void."
This ruling was held to be correct. In Rountree v. Smith,108
U.-S. 269, it was said that brokers who had negotiated such contracts, suing not on the cQntracts themselves, but for services
performed and money advanced for defendant at his request,
though they might under some circumstances be so connected

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

with the immorality of the contract as to be affected by it, they
are not in the same position as a party sued for the enforcement
of the original agreement. It is certainly true that a broker
might negotiate sucth a contract without being privy to the
illegal intent of the principal parties to it which renders it void,
and in such a case, being innocent of any violation of law, and not
suing to enforce an unlawful contract, has a meritorious ground
for the recovery of compensation for services and advances.
But we are also of the opinion that when the broker is privy
to the unlawful design of the parties, and brings them together
for the very purpose of entering into an illegal agreement, he
is particeps criminis, and cannot recover for services rendered
or losses incurred by himself on behalf of either in forwarding
the transaction.
In England, it is held that the contracts, although wagers,
were not void at common law, and that the statute has not made
them illegal, but only non-enforceable, Thacker v. H~ardy, ubi
supra, while generally, in this country, all wagering contracts
are held to be illegal and void as against public policy. Dicksons
Executor v. Thomas, 97 -Penn. St. 278; Giegory v. Wendell,
40 Mich. 432; Iyon v. Culbertson, 83 IlL 33; 3felchert v.
American Union Telegraph Company, 3 McOrary, 521; . C.
11 Fed. Rep. 193, and note; Barnardv. Bocdhaus, 52 Wis.
593; Kingsbury v. Kirwan, V7 N. Y. 612; Story v. Salomon,
71 N. Y. 420 ; Love v. Harvey, 114 Mass. 80.
The charge of the court, however, is objected to on behalf of
the plaintiff in error as misleading by the statement embodied
in it, that "on their face these transactions are legal."
We presume that nothing more was meant by this than what
had just before been said in the charge, that the burden of
proof to show the illegality of the transactions was upon the
defendant, who affirmed it; the presumption being that men
ordinarily in their business transactions do not intend to violate
the law. It is argued, however, that the expression is ambiguous and misleading, as calculated to convey to the jury an
opinion that the transactions as disclosed by the evidence were
not merely lawful in form, but also in fact, without other proof
to the contrary. We do not doubt, that the question whether

IRIVIN v. WILIAR.
Opinion of the Court.

the transactions came within the definition of wagers, is one
that may be determined upon the circumstances, the jury drawing all proper inferences as to the real intent and meaning of
the parties; for, as was properly said in the charge, "It makes
no difference that a bet or wager is made to assume the form
of a contract, Gambling is none the less such because it is
carried on in the form or guise of legitimate trade." It might
therefore be the case, that a series of transactions, such as that
described in the present record, might present a succession of
contracts, perfectly valid in form, but which on the face of the
whole, taken together, and in connection with all the attending circumstances, might disclose indubitable evidences that
they were mere wagers. The jury would be justified in such
a case, without other evidence than that of the nature and circuinstances of the transactions, in reaching and declaring such a
conclusion.
Objection was made at the trial by the plaintiff in error to
proof of the customs of the grain commission merchants
operating through the Corn and Flour Exchange, and exception
was taken to its admission. They were also made the subject
of a charge to the jury, to which exception was taken. That
portion of the charge is as follows:

"7.The testimony tends to show that a general custom obtained among grain commission merchants in Baltimore to the
following effect: When one commission merchant, upon the order
of a customer, sells to another commission merchant a quantity
of grain for future delivery, and where it occurs that at some
other time before the maturity of the contract the same commission merchant receives an order from another customer to purchase
the same or a larger quantity of the same kind of grain for the
same future delivery, and he executes this second order by
making the purchase from the same commission merchant to
whom he had made the sale in the other case, that then, in such
case, the two commission merchants meet together and exchange
or cancel the contracts as between themselves, adjusting the difference in the prices between the two contracts, and restoring
any margins that may have been put up, and that from that time
forth the first commission merchant holds for the benefit of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1s88.
Opinion of the Court.

customer for whom he sold the order or contract of the purchaser
for whom he bought, so that the wheat of the selling customer
may, when delivered, be turned in on the order or contract of the
purchasing customer, and that the commission merchant is held
responsible as guarantor to his customer.
"The evidence further tends to show a custom obtaining among
commission merchants at Baltimore to the further effect that,
though the second transaction may have been had with a different
commission merchant from the one with which the first transaction
was had, yet where it can be found that a series of contracts are
in existence for the sale of like grain, for like delivery, so that the
seller owes the wheat to the buyer to whom he sold, and he to
another, who owes like wheat for like delivery to the first commission merchant, that then, in such case, they settle by what
they call a ' ring,' that is, they all reciprocally surrender or cancel
their contracts, adjust the price differences between themselves,
and surrender all margins that had been put up; that in all such
cases the commission merchant substitutes the contract of another
customer in place of that with the commission merchant whose
contract has been cancelled or surrendered, and that he guarantees
to his customer the performance of the contract originally made
on his behalf.
"1I say to you, gentlemen, that these customs are founded in
commercial convenience ; that they are not in contravention of
the law, and that they are valid." -

The case which the plaintiffs below stated in their declaration was, that in pursuance of orders from the defendant's firm
they had sold to responsible purchasers the wheat mentioned
for future delivery, and on failure of Irwin & Davis to forward
the grain for delivery when due, upon instructions from them,
the plaintiffs had purchased the necessary quantity and delivered the same in performance of the contracts, the recovery
sought being for the difference between what it cost them to
purchase the grain delivered and the prices received bn the con-

tracts of sale.
The proof was, except as to 40,000 bushels actually delivered,
that the settlements in pursuance of which these advances were
made by the plaintiffs below on account of Irwin & Davis were

IRWIN v. WILMIAR.
Opinion of the Court,

made according to the customs of the Grain and Flour Exchange, which were admitted in evidence.
The bill of exceptions states that "there was evidence tending
to show that after the making of divers of the contracts for sale of
wheat in the declaration mentioned, which were made to members of said Corn and Flour Exchange, the same were, before
the expiration of the respective times therein named for the delivery of the wheat, settled and cancelled as between the'plaintiffs and the said respective parties with whom they had in the
first instance contracted said sales by mutual surrender of contracts pursuant to the customs aforesaid; and that the orders
of customers in the fulfilment of whicti said cancelled. contracts
had been made were substituted by the plaintiffs in lieu of such
cancelled or surrendered contracts, and held in the lieu and
stead thereof for the use and benefit of said Irwin & Davis, in
accordance with the usages and customs aforesaid, the plaintiffs standing as guarantors to said Irwin & Davis that the respective parties so ordering the wheat would accept and pay for
it qn delivery, and that said Irwin & Davis should receive the
full price at which the respective sales on their behalf had originally been made.'
The question is, there being no evidence that Irwin & Davis
had any knowledge of the existence of these customs, whether
they were bound by them.
The relation between the parties to this litigation was that
of principal and agent; and the defendants in error, acting as
brokers, in executing the orders to sell, undertook to obtain,
and, as they allege in their declaration, did obtain a responsible
purchaser; so that the plaintiff in error would, upon the contract of sale against such purchaser when disclosed, have been
entitled to maintain an action in case of default in his owu
name. Although the broker guaranteed the sale, it was nota
sale to himself; for, being agent to sell, he could not make himself the purchaser. The precise effect, therefore, of the custom
proved was, that at the time of settlement, in anticipation of
the maturity of the contracts, the brokers, by an arrangement
ambng themselves, by a process of mutual cancellation, reduced
.the settlement to a payment of differeuces, exchanging conVOL. Cx-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

tracts, so as to substitute new purchasers and new sellers respectively for the balances. The question is not whether in a
given case, without the assent, express or implied, of the principal, this change of his rights and obligations can be effected
(for that proposition is not doubtful), but whether the fact of
his transacting business through a member of the Exchange,
without other knowledge of the custom, makes it part of his
contract with the broker.
In Nickalq v. Aferry, L. R. ' I. L. 530, it was said by Lord
Chelmsford, p. 543, that *the contract "having been made
between a broker and a jobber, members of the Stock E change,
the usage of that body enters into, and to a certain extent determines and governs, the nature and effect of the contract."
To what extent such a custom shall be allowed to operate, as
between the broker and his principal, was very thoroughly considered and finally decided by the House of Lords in the case
of Robinson v. .MAol, L. R. 7 H. L. 802, after much division
of opinion among the judges. The custom questioned in that
case was one established in the I6ndon tallow trade, according
to which brokers, when they received an order from a principal
for the purchase of tallow, made a contract or contracts in
their own names, without disclosing their principals, either for
the specific quantity of tallow so ordered, or to include such
order with others in a contract for the entire quantity, or in
any quantities at their convenience, at the same time exchanging
bought and sold notes with the selling brokers, and passing to
their principals a bought note for the specific quantity ordered
by them. When a broker so purchased in his own name, he
was personally bound by the contract. On the usual settling
days the brokers balanced between themselves the purchases
and sales made, and made or received deliveries to or from
their principals, as the case might be, or if their principals refused to accept or deliver, then they sold or bought against
them, and charged them with the loss, if any; or if delivery
was not required on either side, then any difference arising from
a rise or fall in the market was paid by one to the other. It
was held that this custom did not bind a principal giving an
order to a broker to purchase for him, being ignorant of its ex-

IRWVIN v. WILLIAR.L
Opinion of the Court.

istence. It was admitted by lord Chelmsford, p. 836, "that if
a person employs a broker to transact for him upon a market,
with the usages of which the principal is unacquainted, he gives
authority to the broker to make contracts upon the footing of
such usages, provided they are such as regulate the mode of
performing the contracts and do not change their intrinsic
character;" and he added, "of course, if the appellant knew of
the existence of the usage, and chose to employ the respondents
without any restriction upon them, he might be taken to have
authorized them to act for him in conformity to such usage."
Mr. Justice Brett, in his opinion, p. 816, points out very clearly
that the custom, if allowed to prevail, would work a change in
the relation between the broker and his principal, by permitting
the agent to buy, to convert himself into a principal to sell
Mr. Baron Cleasby, p. 828, said:
"The vice of the usage setup in the present case cannot be ap,
preciated by examining its parts separately. It must be looked at
as a whole, and its vice consists, I apprehend, in this, that the
broker is to make the contract of purchase for another whose interest as buyer is to have the advantage of every.turn of the market ; but if the broker may eventually have to provide the goods
as principal, then it becomes his interest as seller that the price
which he is to receive should have been as much in favor of the
seller as the state of the market would admit. Thus the two
positions are opposed."
The principle of this decision seems to us to be incontrovertible, and applies in the present case.
The ground of the action is, that the defendants in error, at
the request of Irwin & Davis, had made certain contracts for
the sale and future delivery of grain; that these contracts were
made in the name of the brokers, on which therefore they were
personally liable, but in which Irwin & Davis were the principals; that the latter were bound to perform them, or to place
in the hands of their brokers means of performance within the
proper period, or to indemnify them against the consequences
of non-performance; that Irwin & Davis in all these particulars
became in default, and the plaintiffs were required to perform

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

out of their own means, which they did by purchasing grain.
for delivery at the market price, or paying the difference
between that and the contract price. The custom proved was
offered to show this performance and consequent loss; and in
doing so it disclosed that the brokers did not perform the original
contracts of sale actually made, but delivered equal quantities
of grain, or its market value, in fulfilment of contracts of purchase made by them for others, and which, by the process of
mutual exchange authorized by this custom, had come into their
hands for that purpose. This exchang? and*substitution, and
payment of differences to effect it, working as it does a complete change in the nature of the seller's rights and obligations,
cannot be made without his assent, and that assent can be implied only from knowledge of the custom which it is claimed
authorizes it.
The Circuit Court therefore erred in permitting proof of this
custom, without evidence that the defendant below had knowledge of it, and in not instructing the jury to disregard it, if
they were satisfied from the evidence that such knowledge had
not been satisfactorily shown.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore reversed, with
directions to grant a new trial, and
Bt is 8o ordered.

HURTADO v. PEOPLE OF CALIFOR IA.
N ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF CAIFORHIA.
Argued January 22d, 23d, 1884.-Deciled March 3d, 1884.

Constitutional Law.
1. The words "due process of law " in the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States do not necessarily require an indictment
by a grand jury in a prosecution by a State for murder.
2. The Constitution of California authorizes prosecutions for felonies by information, after examination and commitment by a magistrate, without
indictment by a grand jury, in the discretion of the legislature. The
Penal Code of the State makes provision for an examination by a magistrate, in the presence of the accused, who is entitl.d to the aid of counsel

