OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

the voters to limit that amount, and requires a tax to be levied
and collected sufficient to pay the whole interest for the year;
and it is equally clear that a bridge across the Platte River is
a work of internal improvement, for the benefit of the public,
and within the scope and the terms of the statute of 1869.
County Comnmissioniers v. Chandler, 96 U. S. 205; Fremont
Building Association v. 9 -rwin, 6 Neb. 48.
The petitioner is therefore entitled to a peremptory writ of
mandamus to the county commissioners to levy a tax on the
taxable property of Fremont Precinct, sufficient to pay the
amount of the judgments recovered in the Circuit Court for
the interest due on the bonds held by him. Davenport v.
Dodge County, 105 U. S. 237.
Judgment reversed.

BISSELL v. SPRWTG VALLEY TOWNESHIP.
IN

ERRtOR TO

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
Submitted January d 1884.-Decided January 21st, 1884.

EstoeZ--ansas-unicilpa Bonds-Safutes.
1. A statute of the State of Kansas directed county commissioners of a county
(when the electors of a township in the county should have determined,
in the manner provided in the act, to issue bonds in payment. of a sub-

scription to railway stock), to order the county clerk to make the subscription, and to cause the bonds to be issued in the name of the township, signed by the chairman of the beard, and attested by the clerk
under the seal of the county: Held, That the signature of the clerk was
essential to the valid execution of the bonds, even though he bad no discretion to withhold it.
2. When bonds have been issued by a township in payment of a subscription
to railway stock, under a statute which makes the signature of a particular officer essential, without the signature of that officer they are not
the bends of the township ; and the municipality is not estopped from
disputing their validity by reason of recitals in the bond, setting forth
the provisions of the statute and a compliance with them.
8. A statute of Kansas authorized the auditor of a State to receive from the
holder of bonds issued by a township in payment of a subscription to

BISSELL v. SPRING VALLEY TOWNSHIP.
Statement of Facts.
railway stock his bonds, and to register the same, and directed the auditor to notify the officers issuing the bonds of the registration of the
same ; and further, directed such officers to enter the fact in a book kept
by them for the purpose ; and then provided that " the bonds shall thereafter be considered registered bonds:" Held, That until the notice to the
township officers, and their entry of the registration in their books, the
bonds were not to be regarded as registered bonds within the intent of
the statute, and as entitled to the benefits of the act; and that no estoppel against disputing the validity of the bonds by reason of a certificate
of registration arose. Lewis v. Commissionersof Barbour County, 105
U. S. 7;39, distinguished from this case.

This was an action brought by the plaintiff in error to recover the amount of certain interest coupons attached to municipal bonds, which, it is alleged in the petition or complaint,
were made, issued, and delivered by the defendant, a municipal corporation of Kansas, to aid in the construction of a railroad running within and through its corporate limits, under
and in pursuance of an act of the legislature of the State of
Kansas entitled "An Act to enable municipal townships to subscribe for stock in any railroad, and to provide for the payment
of the same," approved February 25th, 1870, under and in pursuance of an order of the board of county commissioners of the
county of Cherokee, and under and in pursuance of a vote of
more than three-fifths of the qualified voters of the township,
voting at an election duly held therein for such purpose, being
negotiable bonds payable to bearer. It was further alleged:
"That afterwards, to wit, on December i5th,

A.

D. 1871, each of

the said bonds, with all the interest coupons thereto attached,
was put upon the market and sold and delivered to bona fide
purchasers for value, the same passing from hand to hand like

other negotiable securities.
" That afterwards, to wit, on April lth, A. D. 1872, each of the
said bonds, with all the interest coupons thereto attached, was
duly registered in the office of the auditor of the State of Kansas,
according to law, and the fact that each of the said bonds was so
registered was then and there, under the hand and official seal of
the said auditor, in writing duly certified and indorsed upon each
of the said bonds, a copy of which said certificate and indorse-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.
ment is filed herewith, made part hereof, and marked cExhibit B.'"
It was also alleged that after the issuing and delivering of the
said bonds, and before the maturity, either of the bonds or of
any of the coupons sued upon, they were sold and delivered to

the plaintiff for the price of ninety cents on the dollar thereof
in cash.
The following is the form of the bond:
"No.

.]

TJNTED STATES Or AmER

"COUNTY

.

[p1,000.

OF CHEROKEE, STATE OF M&AWSAS.

"Spring Valley Township Bonds.
"Know all men by these presents that Spring Valley Township, county of Cherokee, State of Kansas, acknowledges itself
and is firmly bound to the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company in the sum of one thousand dollars, which sum the said
township therein promises to pay to the said Atlantic and Pacific
Railroad Company, or bearer, at the office of Northrop & Chick,
in the city of New York and State of New York, on the fifteenth
day of December, 1886, together with the interest on the first day
of July in each and every year until this bond matures, at the
rate of seven per cent. per annum, which interest shall be payable annually on the presentation and delivery at said office of the
coupons of interest hereto attached.
"This bond being issued under and pursuant to an order of the
board of county commissioners of Cherokee County, in the State
of Kansas, by virtue of an act of the legislature of the State of
Kansas, approved February 25th, 1870, entitled ' An Act to enable
municipal townships to subscribe for stock in any railroad, and
to provide for the payment of the same;' and authorized by a
vote of the people taken on the 4th day of February, 1871, as
required by law, upon the proposition to subscribe one hundred
and fifty thousand dollars to aid in the construction of the said
railroad, which proposition was voted upon on the day aforesaid,
and three-fifths of the votes of said township being cast in favor
of said proposition.
" In testimony whereof the said board of county commissioners
of Cherokee County have executed this bond by the chairman of

BISSELL v. SPRING VALLEY TOWNSHIP.
Statement of Facts.
said board, under the order thereof, signing his name hereunto,
and by the clerk of said board attesting the same and affixing the
seal of said board.
"This done at Colunbus, Cherokee County, this 15th day of
December, 1871.
SEAL OF CEMOKXE

COUM-T,

,ANSAS.

WM. H.

CLARK,

"Chairman Board of County Commssioners.
"J. G. Du .ravy, County Clerk."
The certificate of registration was as follows:

"I, A. Thoman, auditor of the State of Kansas, do hereby certify that this bond has been regularly and legally issued, that the
signatures thereto are genuine, and that such bond has been duly
registered in my office in accordance with an act of the legislature entitled ' An Act to authorize counties, incorporated cities,
and municipal townships to issue bonds for the purpose of building bridges, aiding in the construction ,of railroads, or other
works of internal improvement, and providing for the registration of such bonds, the registration of other bonds, and the repealing of all laws in conflict therewith, approved March 2d, 1872.
"Witness my hand and official seal this 11th day of April, 1872..
C[SEAL.]
-A THOmIA, Auditor O.f State."
The defendant in answer to the petition pleaded the following defence:
"That it ought not to be charged with the said supposed debt
by virtue of the said supposed bonds and coupons, because it, by
its attorneys, says that J. G. Ddnlavy, whose name appears on said
bonds and coupons as county clerk, never signed his name thereto
or thereon, nor ever authorized any party or parties to sign his
name thereto or thereon, and that said signature is not his signature.
"1Nor did he affix or authorize to be affixed the seal of said
county of Cherokee to said bonds or coupons."
To this the plaintiff demurred.

The demurrer was over-

ruled, and the plaintiff declining to reply, judgment was rendered for the defendant, to review which this writ of error was

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

prosecuted. The assignment of error relied on was that thiis
defence being insufficient in law the demurrer thereto should
have been sustained and judgment rendered for the plaintiff.
.Mr'. Ayred Ennis for plaintiff in error, among other contentions made the following: The seal of the county being affixed
to the bonds, was prima facie evidence that it was so affixed
by the proper authority, and the burden is upon the defendant
in error to establish the contrary. 1 Kyd on Corporations,
268; Angell and Ames on Corporations, ยง 224; Iovett v. Steam
Saw Itill Association, 6 Paige, 54, 60; Clark v. imperial
Gas Light and Coke Company, 4 B. & A. 315; Solomon's
Lodge v. .2fontmollin, 58 Ga. 547; Reed v. Bradley, 17 IIl.
321; St. Jokn's Church v. Steinmetz, 18 Penn. St. 273. The
bonds having been issued and delivered by the legal representatives of the defendant in error, with the name of the county
clerk signed, and the seal of the county affixed thereto, estops
the defendant in error from denying the genuineness of the
signature of such clerk, or the authority for affixing such seal,
as against the plaintiff in error, a bona fide holder for value.
Town of Weyauwega v. Ayling, 99 U. S. 112. The recitals
upon the face of the bonds that they were issued according to
law, and that the board of county commissioners had executed
the same by the chairman of the board, under the order
thereof, signing his name thereto, and by the county clerk attesting the same and affixing the seal of the county thereto,
estops the defendant in error from denying the facts so recited, as against the plaintiff in error, a bona ftde holder for
value. Insurance Company v. Bruce, 105 U. S. 328; Hrarter
v. Iernochan, 103 U. S. 562; .Menashav. Hazard,102 UI. S.
81; HYackett v. Ottawa, 99 U. S. 86 ; Town of JFeyauwega v.
Ayling, 99 U. S. 112; Supervisors i% Galbraith,99 U. S. 214;
Wilson v. Salmaln a Township, 99 U. S. 499; County of Mar,renv. Jaray,97 U. S. 96; San Antonio v. Xehajffy, 96 U. S.
312; Town of Coloma v. Eaves, 92 UT. S. 484; Towmn of Venice
v. -Murdock, 92 U. S. 494; County of -Moultrie v. Rockingham
Ten Cent Savings Bank, 92 *U. S. 631 ; 3larcy v. Township of
Oswego, 92 U. S. 637; HZumboldt Township v. Long, 92 U. S.

BISSELL v. SPRING VALLEY TOWNSHIP.

167

Opinion of the Court.

642; Pompton v. C00er Union, 101 U. S. 196; The .fayorv.
Lord, 9 Wall. 409; Supervisor v. Schenck, 5 Wall. 772; -Moran
v. Commissioners Xiami County, 2 Black, 723; Bissell v.
J.fersonville, 24 How. 287; Knox County v. A pnwalt, 21
How. 539. The registration of the bonds in the office of the
auditor of State, according to law, was a final and conclusive
determination that the same had been regularly and legally
issued, and that the sigmatures thereto were genuine, and such
facts cannot now be inquired into, as against the plaintiff in
error, a bonafde holder for value. See Bigelow on Estoppel,
464; Herman's Law of Estoppel, 509 and 512; -Moranv. The
Commissioner. of Miami County, 2 Black, 722; Zabriskie v.
Cleveland, dc., Railroad Company, 23 How. 400; Commisioners of Xnox County v. Aspinwall, 21 How.539 ; Rogers v.
Burlington, 3 Wall. 654; Pendleton County v. Amy, 13 Wall.
297; .Yeithsburg v. Fric, 34 Ill. 405; Royal British.Bank v.
Turguand,6 El. & BL 327; lHale v. Union, &c.,Insurance Com.pany, 32 N. H. 295; Trustees v. -Mayoret al. of Aberdeen, 13
S. & M. 645.
.Xr. . ff. Ros-ington, . .
1. fallowell, and -Y.r. Chas.
R
B. Smith, for defendant in error.
YR. JUSTICE XArTmnws delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the above recited facts he continued:
The plaintiff in error contends that this judgment is erroneous on several grounds, which we proceed to consider in their
order.
1. It is claimed, in the first place, that the defence is not sufficient, because the signature of the county clerk is not essential to the validity of the bonds, nor that the county seal
should have been affixed thereto by him.
The statute of Kansas, Laws of Kansas of 1870, ch. 90, p.
189, under which the bonds in question purport to have been
issued, contains the following provisions ;
"SECTION 1. Whenever fifty of the qualified voters, they being
freeholders, of any municipal township in any county in the
State, shall petition in writing the board of county commissioners

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

of such county to submit to the qualified voters of such township
a proposition to take stock, in the name of such township, in any
railroad proposed to be constructed into or through such township,
and shall in such petition designate the railroad company and the
amount of stock proposed to be taken, and the mode and terms
of payment for the same, together with the conditions of such
subscription, if any, it shall be the duty of such board of county
commissioners to cause an election to be held by the qualified
voters of such township, to determine whether such subscription
shall be made: Provided, That the amount of bonds voted by
any township shall not be above such an amount as will require
a levy of more than one per cent. per annum on the taxable property of such township to pay the yearly interest on the amount
of bonds issued.
"1SEcTION 5. If three-fifths of the electors voting at such elec.
tion vote for the subscription of the stock, the board of county
commisioners shall order the county clerk to make such subscription in the name of the township, and shall cause such bonds
as may be require& by the terms of sid vote and subscription to
,be issued in the name of such township, to be signed by the
phairman of the board, and attested by the clerk, under the seal
of the county: Provided, That the commissioners shall not cause
such bonds, to be issued until the railroad shall have been completed through the township voting such bonds, or to such point
in said township as may be conditioned in said bonds."
It is argued, as the board of county commissioners is the
prescribed authority which orders every step to be taken to
issue the bonds, and as the clerk acts only as directed by it,
and signs and seals the bonds merely as a witness of its orders
and acts, that it is only what that board does and directs which
becomes important, and that if it issues bonds with the name
of the clerk signed and the seal of the county attached, it is not
material whether the clerk writes his name or affixes the
seal, or whether it is done by another.
It is alleged in the petition that the defendant corporation,
the municipal township, made, issued, and delivered the bonds
on which the suit is founded, and that it was done under and
in pursuance of an order of the board of county commissioners

BISSELL v. SPRING VALLEY TOWNSHIP.
Opinion of the Court.

of the county of Cherokee. But it is sufficient to say, that the
power of the board of county commissioners to bind the township is conferred by the statute to be exercised only in the mode
pointed out, and the attesting signature of the clerk is as material to the integrity and validity of the bonds as is that of the
chairman of the board of county commissioners. The township
had no power to bind itself for the purpose of aiding in the
construction of a railroad, by subscription to its capital stock
and the issue of bonds to pay for the same, except as authorized
by this statute; the board of county commissioners of the
county did not represent the township for any other purpose,
and could not execute its power to issue bonds by instruments
not conforming to the substantial requirements of the law.
That law required the bonds to be executed in a particular manner, and the signature of the clerk is essential to the valid execution of them, even though he had no discretion to withhold
it. Anthwny v. County of Japer,101 U. S. 693-697'; .AcGarraha v. Xining Company, 96 U. S. 316.
Admitting that the board could cause his signature to be
affixed, without his assent, by another specially or generally
appointed to do so; still, that it was so affixed in the present
case does not appear as matter of fact; and if the fact could
be supplied by supposition, the signature would still, in law, be
the signature of the clerk. But the answer denies that fact,
and the demurrer admits the truth of the denial. So that the
defence set forth in the answer is, in law, that the bonds sued
on are not the bonds of the township, and that is admitted by
the demurrer to be true.
2. This disposes of the second ground of the contention of
the plaintiff in error, which is, that the township defendant is
estopped by the bonds and the recitals contained in them to
dispute their validity..
But there can be no ground for such an estoppel unless the
bonds, which are supposed to effect it, are the bonds of the defendant. We have just seen that, by the pleadings, they are
admitted not to be such; and the position of the plaintiff in
error is not improved by the supposition that he is an innocent
holder for value. If the bonds are not the act and deed of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the .Court.

defendant, they do not bind it at all, and cannot be made
obligatory by their own contents.
3. It is argued, however, finally, that the defendant township
is estopped to dispute the validity and obligation of these bonds
by the fact and certificate of registration.
The statute of Kansas, Laws of Kansas of 1872, ch. 68, p. 110,
to authorize counties, &c., to issue bonds, and providing for their
registration, &c., contained ample and specific provisions, according to which municipal corporations were authorized to lend
their credit to aid in the construction of works of internal
improvement. It required that when bonds were to be
issued for such purpose, the officers of the municipal body
making them should deliver them in the first instance to the
treasurer of State, to be held by him in escrow, or to an agent
agreed on, until full compliance with the conditions of the
agreement on which they were to issue, when the treasurer or
agent was required to deliver them to the parties entitled to
them. The officers of the municipal corporation were also
required to make registration thereof in a book kept for that
purpose, and to certify a statement of the same to the auditor
of State ; and, if within thirty days after their issue, the holder
of such bonds should present them to the auditor of State
for registration, he was required, upon being satisfied that such
bonds had been issued according to the act, and that the signatures thereto of the officers signing the same were genuine,
to register the same in his office, in a book kept for that purpose, in the same manner that such bonds were required to be
registered by the officers issuing the same, and also to certify
upon such bonds the fact that they had been regularly and
legally issued, that the signatures thereto were genuine, and
that such bonds had been registered in his office according to
law.
The act also makes provision for the registration of bonds
not issued under it, but issued either before its enactment or in
pursuance of agreements entered into before it took effect.
The fifteenth section is as follows:
"1SECT.

15. That the holder of bonds heretofore issued, or that

BISSELL v. SPRING VALLEY TOWNSHIP.
Opinion of the Court.
may hereafter be issued, in pursuance of any contract heretofore
made under any law in this State, may have the benefits of this
act by having such bonds registered in the office of said auditor
of State as provided herein for the registration of bonds (issued)
by virtue hereof. It shall be the duty of the auditor of State,
upon the registration of any bonds not issued under the provisions of this act, within ten days thereafter, to notify the officers
issuing the same of such registration, which fact shall be entered
by such officers in a book wherein the record of such bonds is
kept, and such bonds shall thereafter be considered registered
bonds."
Under this section it is claimed that the bonds sued on were
registered, having been issued prior to the passage of the registration act of 1872; and it is insisted, upon the authority of the
case of Lewis v. Commissioners, 105 U. S. 789, that the registration is conclusive of their validity, as against the defence
made in the answer.
It is shown, however, by a comparison of the fifteenth section
with the other sections of the act in reference to registration,
that distinct and diverse provisions are made for different
classes of bonds, those issued under the act and those previously
issued or agreed to be issued under prior acts. As to the
former class, the bonds authorized are to be registered, in the
first instance, according to the mandate of the twelfth section,
by the officers of the municipality acting in that behalf, who
are required to transmit to the auditor of State a certified
statement of the number, amount, and character of the bonds
so issued, to whom issued, and for what purpose, which stateiaent is required to be attested by the clerk of the municipal
corporation issuing the same under its corporate seal. The
registration thus provided for consists of two parts, that which
is recorded by the officers of the corporation in their books and
that which the auditor records in his own, and in that case the
last step is taken by the auditor, who certifies it on the bonds
themselves, presented by the holder for that purpose. This
certificate is intended to be based not merely upon what the
auditor himself has done, but upon the knowledge officially

OCTOBER TERMI, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

certified to him of what had previously been done by the
officers of the municipal corporation issuing the bonds.
But as to the other class of bonds, those not issued under the
act of 1872, the order of the steps in registration is reversed.
The first record is made by the auditor on presentation of the
bonds by the holder for that purpose. Within ten days thereafter he is required by the fifteenth section of the act to notify
the officers issuing the same of such registration by him, which
fact, it is provided, shall be entered by such officers in a book
wherein the record of such bonds is kept, and such bonds, the
statute thpn proceeds to declare, shall thereafter be considered
Tegistered bonds. That necessarily means that they shall not
be so considered until the happening of that event; and it is
that complete and perfected registration, and that alone, which
conifers upon the holder of such bonds the benefits of the act.
The bonds that were in controversy in the case of Lewis v.
Comrmisionem, 105 U. S. 739, were issued under the act of
1872, and their registration was governed by the provisions of
the statute relating to that class. The bonds on which the
present suit is based were issued under the abt of 1870, and
belong to the class the registration of which is governed by
the provisioas of the fifteenth section of the act.
It is alleged in the petition that "each of said bonds, with
all the interest coupons thereto attached, was duly registered
'in the office of the auditor-of the State of Kansas according to
law, and the fact that each of the said bonds was so registered
was then and there, under the hand and official seal of the said
auditor, in writing, duly certified and indorsed upon each of
the said bonds," and a copy of the certificate and indorsement
is set out as already exhibited. But it is not alleged that the
auditor notified the officers of Cherokee County of this
record, nor that these officers entered the fact in the record
kept by themselves; and without these additional steps, what
was done by the auditor was incomplete and ineffective. Without showing compliance with these requisitions, the bonds
cannot be considered registered bonds, nor entitled as such to
the benefits of the act.
If complete and conclusive effect were, on the contrary, given

BISSELL v. SPRING VALLEY TOWNSHIP.

173

Opinion of the Court.

to the exparte record of the auditor of State, as is claimed for
it, the obvious design and just purpose of the statute would be
not secured, but subverted; and municipal corporations might
be subjected to liability for bonds purporting to be issued by
them, which, in fact and in law, were not their obligations, by
virtue of a proceeding of which they had no notice, resulting
in an adjudication which they had no opportunity of contesting. A construction of the statute that necessarily leads to
that conclusion is not warranted by its terms, and would be
repugnant to fundamental principles of common right. If the
registration of bonds issued under the act itself is to have the
force of an adjudication by the auditor, the preliminary record
by the officers of the municipal corporation transmitted to him
must be the indispensable foundation of his jurisdiction, without which he cannot lawfully act; and as to bonds issued, as
were these now in suit, under previous statutes, the action of
the auditor is itself but the preliminary proceeding, of which
confirmation by the subsequent record of the officers issuing
them is essential to its efficacy as a registration. If these
officers refuse to recognize the registry of the auditor, whether
rightfully or wrongfully, the holder loses no rights. He has
the bonds as he acquired them, and may test the liability of
the corporation by judicial proceedings. If, on the other hand,
the statute is construed to allow him, by a proceeding before
the auditor, conclusively to fix the liability of the municipal
corporation, without notice and without a hearing, certainly,
in respect to bonds previously issued, it would be open to the
gravest objections on constitutional grounds, for, if a law cannot impair the obligation of a contract, neither can it create
one, or, by a mere fat, take from a party an existing and meritorious defence.
It appears then, by the record in this cause, that the bonds
sued on are not the obligations of the defendant in error.

The judgment in it favor i8, therefore, afflrmed.

