HILTON v. MERRITT.
Syllabus.

and it is not lessened because the motive that induced it was
something in addition to the possible injury to them that it
might work. The supposition proceeds upon the very ground
of the false statement of a material matter, knowingly and
wilfully made, with the intent to deceive ihe defendants in
error; and it is no palliation of the fraud that Murphy did not
mean thereby to prejudice them, but merely to promote his
own personal interest in a matter not involved in the contract
with them. By that contract the companies were entitled to
know from him all the circumstances of his purchase of the
property insured, including the amount of the price- paid and
in what manner payment was made; and false statements,
wilfully made under oath, intended to conceal the truth on
these points, constituted an attempted fraud by false swearing
which was a breach of the conditions of the policy, and constituted a bar to the recovery of the insurance.
Such we understand to be the precise effect of the rulings of
the justice presiding at the trial of the case in the court below,
in refusing the requests to instruct the jury as asked by the
plaintiffs in error, and in giving the instructions contained in
the charge excepted to; and, finding no error in them,
The Judgment is cafflrmed.

HILTON & Another v. MERRITT, Collector.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUT COURT OF THE UNWED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued December 17th and 18th, 1883.-Decided January 14th, 1884.

Customas Duties.
1. The valuation of merchandise made by customs officers, under the statutes,
for the purpose of levying duties thereon, is, in the absence of fraud on
the part of the officers, conclusive on the importer.
2. §§ 2931, 3011, Rev. Stat., which give the right of appeal to the Secretary of
the Treasury, when duties are alleged to have been illegally or erroneously
exacted, and the right of trial by jury in case of adverse decision by the
Secretary of the Treasury, do not relate to alleged errors in the appraisement of goods, but to the rate and amount of duties imposed upon them
after appraisement.
voL. cx-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

This was a suit brought by the plaintiffs in error, who were
plaintiffs in the Circuit Court, to recover the sum of $1,037.40,
an alleged excess of duties exacted by the defendant as collector of customs at the port of New York, on two cases of kid
gloves imported by plaintiffs from Paris, France, in the steamer
Mosel, in June, 1878.
The complaint alleged that the plaintiffs made due protest
at the time of paying such excessive duties, and made due and
timely appeal to the Secretary of the Treasury, who affirmed
the decision of defendant by which said duties were exacted.
The answer denied that the duties exacted were excessive,
and averred that they were according to the rule imposed by
law.
The case was tried by a jury, who, after hearing the evidence, returned, by direction of the court, a verdict for defendant, upon which judgment for costs was entered in his favor.
To reverse that judgment this writ of error is prosecuted.
Xkr. Henry E. Tremain for plaintiff in error.
.Xr. Solicitor-Generalfor defendant in error.
AR.

JUSTICE WOODs delivered the opinion of the court.

It appears from the bill of exceptions found in the record
that the withdrawal entry of the packages on which the duty
occasioning this controversy arose, was made October 23d, 1878.
The local appraiser made and reported to the collector his
appraisement of the goods. The importers being dissatisfied
therewith, demanded a reappraisement according to law, which
was allowed, and a merchant appraiser appointed to be associated with one of the general appraiser.
The merchant appraiser made an appraisement of the
standard gloves at 42 francs per dozen, and of the invoice at
16,613.10 francs, which corresponded with the importer's invoice and entered valuation of the merchandise in question.
The general appraiser made a report of his appraisement on
the same day, in which he put the value of the standard gloves
at 52 francs, and the total valuation at 20,282.85 francs.
Upon receiving these and other appraisements, the collector

HILTON v. MERRITT.
Opinion of the Court

wrote to the general appraiser a letter, dated October 10th,
1878, in which he said:
"I have received the reports on the re-appraisement of gloves
entered by Wilmerding, Hoguet & Co., per S. S. Lessing; Iselin,
Neeser & Co., per S. S. Pereire ; and A. T. Stewart & Co., per S.
S. Mosel, together with a mass of testimony taken at the hearing,
and a special report from yourself, giving in extenso your reasons
for differing from the merchant appraisers in these cases. The
merchant appraisers sustain the invoices or entered value, while
you advance the value in two of the cases upwards of 20 per cent.
The law requires the collector in cases of difference to decide behas
tween the merchant and general appraiser. I find that it.
been the almost universal practice for the collector under these
circumstances to adopt the higher valuation. Unwilling to accept this easy method of disposing of troublesome questions, and
believing it to be the duty of a government officer, while carefully
protecting the revenue, to see that no injustice is done to the
merchant, I have personally devoted much time and attention to
the examination of the evidence presented.
"It is a matter of surprise that three 'discreet' merchants
should differ so widely from the general appraiser. With no disposition to evade the responsibility placed upon me by the law, I
consider that the interests involved and the vexatious delays in
reaching a satisfactory conclusion require that an effort should be
made to fix a value which will remain unchallenged. I have
therefore to suggest that you re-examine the evidence, in the hope
that a result may be reached which shall not, on the one hand,
make it appear that the merchants of New York cannot be relied
upon to give a fair hearing and correct judgment on a question
of value, or on the other hand, that the government seeks and
enforces by its might that which is unjust.
"I would call your attention to the conflicting evidence as to
the similarity of the glove marketed in London and New York.
"I would also call your attention to the amount to be added
per button to represent the true value. I find it difficult from the
evidence to fix this amount at five francs per dozen.
"The three reports are returned herewith."
To this letter the general appraiser replied, by letter of the
same date, stating, among other things, as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

"As to the invoices under consideration I do not feel at liberty
to formally withdraw the reports I have already presented, because they were found on the evidence received on the reappraisements, and I think it best that they should stand as expressing
my convictions based on that evidence. If, however, you are
willing to retain them as memoranda for that purpose, and will
accept as substitutes therefor the additional reports which I present herewith and have designated as ' amended' reports, I shall
feel that I have met, to the best of my ability, the considerations
which your letter set forth."
The amended report of the general appraiser fixed the value
of the merchandise in question in this case at 49 francs.
The collector, on October 23d, 1878, assessed the duty, 50
per cent. ad valorem, on the merchandise, based on the valuation of the standard glove at 49 francs, adopting the appraisement returned in the amended report of the general appraiser,
that being an advance of the invoice value of 16.2 per cent.,
and imposed an additional duty of 20 per cent. ad valorem on
account of undervaluation in the entry.
The importers, the plaintiffs in error, duly protested against
the action of the collector and, under protest, paid the duties
assessed and appealed to the Secretary of the Treasury, who,
on November 11th, 1878, approved the decision of the collector,
holding, however, that the correctness of the valuation was not
a matter subject to appeal.
Upon the trial of the case the plaintiffs offered in evidence
the records of the proceedings before the merchant appraiser
and the general appraiser, including the testimony and various
documents before those officers, and subsequently before the
collector. They also offered the testimony of one Hildreth, an
expert, and others, to show the foreign market value of gloves
at the principal markets of France, whence the merchandise in
question was imported. They also offered the testimony of
the collector to show all the facts within his knowledge, or
officially acted upon by him, in relation to the invoice in question, and to show what his experience was in valuing kid
gloves. They also offered to prove the cost of the manufacture of goods similar to those in question. All the evidence

HILTON v. MERRITT.
Opinion of the Court.

so offered was excluded by the court, and the plaintiffs excepted.
It also appears from the bill of exceptions that the plaintiff's
counsel claimed the right to go to the jury upon the questions:
(1) Whether the collector, acting as appraiser, fully and fairly
examined the goods. (2) Whether the goods were invoiced at
their fair and actual value in the principal markets of France
at the time of exportation. (3) Whether a fair examination of
the goods was made by the general appraiser, associated with
the merchant appraiser, when that matter was referred to him.
(4) Whether the facts stated in the protests of the appraisers
had been established by the evidence; and (5) whether the
appraiser followed the evidence before him or disregarded it,
and whether the collector disregarded the evidence or was negligent in his appraisal
The plaintiffs also asked the court to charge the jury that if
the collector did not fully and fairly examine the goods, then
the verdict need not necessarily follow the appraisement; that
the general appraiser not having re-examined the goods after
he made his first report, the jury is not concluded by his report
at 49 francs, or the collector's action therein.
The court refused to submit the questions aforesaid to the
jury or to charge the jury as requested, and the plaintiffs excepted.
The bill of exceptions further states that no claim was made
to submit to the jury any question of fraud on the part of the
collector or appraiser, and that no claim was made during the
trial that any excluded evidence was offered for the purpose of
showing or did show or tended to show fraud on the part of
the government officers.
The question presented by the exceptions of plaintiffs is
whether the valuation of merchandise made by the customs
officers under the statutes of the United States for the purpose
of levying duties thereon is, in the absence of fraud on the part
of the officers, conclusive on the importer, or is such valuation
reviewable in an action at law brought by the importer to recover back duties paid under protest.
The solution of this question depends upon the provisions of

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

the acts of Congress regulating the subject, which are as
follows:
Section 2900 declares in substance that the owner, &c., of
any merchandise may, when he shall produce the original
invoice to the collector and make and verify his written entry,
and not afterward, make such addition to the cost or value
given in the invoice as shall raise the same to the actual market
value at the time of importation in the principal markets of the
country from which the same has been imported, and the collector shall cause such actual market value to be appraised, and
if such appraised value shall exceed by ten per centum or more
the value declared in the entry, then there shall be collected in
addition to the duties imposed by law a duty of twenty per cent.

ad valorem on such appraised value.
Section 2902 declares:
"It shall be the duty of the appraisers of the United States, and
every of them, and every person who shall act as such appraiser,
or of the collector and naval officer, as the case may be, by all
reasonable ways and means in his or their power, to ascertain,
estimate, and appraise the true and actual market value and
wholesale price, any invoice or affidavit thereto to the contrary
.notwithstanding, of the merchandise at the time of exportation
and in the principal markets of the country whence the same has
been imported into the United States, and the number of such
yards, parcels, or quantities, and such actual market value or
wholesale price of every of them, as the case may require."
Section 2906 provides:
"When an ad valorem rate of duty is imposed on any imported
merchandise, or when the duty imposed shall be regulated by or
directed to be estimated or based upon the value of the square
yard, or of any specified quantity or parcel of such merchandise,
the collector

.

.

.

shall cause the actual market value or

wholesale price thereof at the period of exportation to the United
States in the principal markets of the country from which the
same has been imported to be appraised, and such appraised value
shall be considered the value on which the duty sliall be assessed."

HILTON v. AERRITT.
Opinion of the Court,

Section 2922 is as follows:
"The appraisers, or the collector and naval officer, as the
case may b , may call before them and examine upon oath any
owner, importer, consignee, or other person, touching any matter
or thing which they may deem material in ascertaining the true
market value or wholesale price of any merchandise imported,
and require the production on oath to the collector, or to any permanent appraiser, of any letters, accounts or invoices in his
possession relating to the same. All testimony in writing, or
depositions, taken by virtue of this section, shall be filed in the
collector's office, and preserved for future use or reference, to be
transmitted to the Secretary of the Treasury when he shall require
the same."
Section 2929 provides that the principal appraisers shall revise
and correct the report of the assistant appraisers as they may
judge proper, and report to the collector their decision thereon,
who, if he deems any appraisement of goods too low, may order
a reappraisement either by the principal appraisers or by three
merchants designated by him for that purpose, and may cause

the duties to be charged accordingly.
Section 2930 is as follows:
"If the importer, owner, agent, or consignee of any merchandise
shall be dissatisfied with the appraisement, and shall have complied with the foregoing requisitions, he may forthwith give notice
to the collector, in writing, of such dissatisfaction ; on the receipt
of which the collector shall select one discreet and experienced merchant to be associated with one of the general appraisers wherever
practicable, or two discreet and experienced merchants, citizens
of the United States, familiar with the character and value of the
goods in question, to examine and appraise the same, agreeably to
the foregoing provisions; and if they shall disagree, the collector
shall decide between them, and the appraisement thus determined
shall be final and deemed to be the true value, and the duties shall
be levied thereon accordingly."'

Section 2949 provides that the Secretary of the Treasury
from time to time shall establish such rules and regulations,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

not inconsistent with the laws of the United States, to secure
a just, faithful, and impartial appraisement of all merchandise
imported into the United States, and just and proper entries of
the actual market value or wholesale price thereof.
The provisions of the statute law show with what care Congress has provided for the fair appraisal of imported merchandise subject to duty, and they show also the intention of Congress to make the appraisal final and conclusive. When the
value of the merchandise is ascertained by the officers appointed by law, and the statutory provisions for appeal have
been exhausted, the statute declares that the "appraisement
thus determiined shall be final and deemed to be the true value,
and the duties shall be levied thereon accordingly." This language would seem to leave no room for doubt or construction.
The contention of the appellants is, that after the appraisal
of merchandise has been made by the assistant appraiser,
and has been reviewed by the general appraiser, and a
protest has been entered against his action by the importer,
and the collector has appointed a special tribunal, consisting of a general and merchant appraiser, to fix the value,
and they have reported each a different valuation to the collector, who has decided between them and fixed the valuation
upon which the duties were to be laid, that in every such case
the importer is entitled to contest still further the appraisement
and have it reviewed by a jury in an action at law to recover
'back the duties paid. After Congress has declared that the appraisement of the customs officers should be final for the purpose of levying duties, the right of the importer to take the
verdict of a jury upon the correctness of the appraisement
should be declared in clear and explicit terms. So far from
this being the case, we do not find that Congress has given the
right at all. If, in every suit brought to recover duties paid
under protest, the jury were allowed to review the appraisement
made by the customs officers, the result would be great uncertainty and inequality in the collection of* duties on imports.
It is quite possible that no two juries would agree upon the
value of different invoices of the same goods. The legislation
of Congress, to which we have referred, was designed, as it am-

HILTOIN v. MERRITT.
Opinion of the Court.

pears to us, to exclude any such method of ascertaining the
dutiable value of goods. This court, in referring to the general
policy of the laws for the collection of duties, said in Bartlett
v. Kane, 16 How. 263, "The interposition of the courts in the
appraisement of importations would involve the collection of
the revenue in inextricable confusion." And, referring to section 3 of the act of March 3d, 1851, which is reproduced in
section 2930 Revised Statutes, this court declared, in Bezoher
v. Zinn, 24 How. 508, that, in the absence of fraud, the decision of the customs officers "is final and conclusive, and their
appraisement, in contemplation of law, becomes, for the purpose of calculating and assessing the duties due to the United
States, the true dutiable value of the importation." To the
same effect see Tappan v. United States, 2 :Mtason, 393, and
Baiky v. Goodrich, 2 Cliff. 597.
The appellants contend, however, that the right to review the
appraisement of the customs officers by a jury trial is given to
the importer by sections 2931 and 3011 of the Revised Statutes. The first of these sections provides that on the entry of
any merchandise the decision of the collector as to the rate
and amount of duties shall be final and conclusive unless the
importer shall, within two days after the ascertainment and
liquidation of the proper officers of the customs, give notice in
writing to the c6llector on each entry, if dissatisfied with his
decision, setting forth distinctly and specifically the grounds of
his objection thereto, and shall within thirty days after such
ascertaimnent and liquidation appeal therefrom to the Secretary of the Treasury, and the decision of the Secretary in such
appeal shall be final and conclusive, and such merchandise
shall be liable to duty accordingly, unless suit shall be brought
within ninety days after such decision of the Secretary of the
Treasury. Section 3011 provides that any person who shall
have made payment under protest of any money as duties,
when such amount of duties was not, or was not wholly, authorized by law, may maintain an action, which shall be triable by jury, to ascertain the validity of such demand and payment of duties, and to recover back any excess so paid; but no
recovery 'shall be allowed in such action unless a protest

OCTOBER TERM1, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

and appeal shall have been taken as prescribed in section
2931.
The argument is that by these sections the appraisement
which had been declared final by section 2930 is opened for
review by a jury trial. Such is not, in our opinion, a fair construction of this legislation. Considering the acts of Congress
as establishing a system, and giving force to all the sections,
its plain and obvious meaning is that the appraisement of the
customs officers shall be final, but all other questions relating
to the rate and amount of duties may, after the importer has
taken the prescribed steps, be reviewed in an action at law to
recover duties unlawfully exacted. The rate and amount of
duties depends on the classification of the imported merchandise, that is to say, on what schedule it belongs to. Questions
frequently arise whether an enumerated article belongs to one
section or another, and section 2499 of the Revised Statutes
provides that there shall be levied on every non-enumerated
article which bears a similitude either in material, quality,
texture, or the use to which it may be applied to any enumerated article chargeable with duty, the same rate of duty which
is levied and charged on the enumerated article which it most
resembles in any of the particulars before mentioned. In determining the rate and amount of duties, the value of the
merchandise is one factor, the question what schedule it properly falls under is another.
Congress has said that the valuation of the customs officers
shall be final, but there is still a field left for the operation of
the sections on which the plaintiffs in error rely. Questions reelating to the classification of imports, and consequently to the
rate and amount of duty, are open tb review in an action at
law. This construction gives effect to both provisions of the
law. If we yield to the contention and construction of plaintiffs in error, we must strike from the statute the clause which
renders the valuation of dutiable merchandise final.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the valuation made by
the customs officers was not open to question in an action at
law as long as the officers acted without fraud and within the
power conferred on them by the statute. The evidence offered

BILTON v.

=RITT.

Opinion of the CourL

by the plaintiffs, and ruled out by the court, tended only to show
carelessness or irregularity in the discharge of their duties by
the customs officers, but not that they were assuming powers
not conferred by the statute, and the questions which the
plaintiffs proposed to submit to the jury were, in the view we
take of the statute, immaterial and irrelevant.
The plaintiffs in error make the further point that the merchant appraiser having appraised the goods in question at 42
francs, and the general appraiser at 52 francs, the law which
made it the duty of the collector to decide between them required him to adopt one valuation or the other, and did not
authorize him to fix a valuation of his ownbetween those made
by the merchant and general appraisers, and that his appraisement at 49 francs was beyond his powers and unauthorized by
law, and consequently void. Without deciding whether this
construction of the law is the correct one, we reply that the
bill of exceptions shows that after making his first report, the
general appraiser filed an amended report, in which he placed
his valuation at 49 francs, which was adopted by the collector.
The right of the appraiser to amend his report was distinctly
recognized in this court in Bartlett v. -Yane, 16 Howard, wui
supra. The informal character of his amended report could
not affect the power of the collector to act in the premises.
The plaintiffs in error contended further that a denial of the
right to bring an action at law to recover duties paid under an
alleged excessive valuation of dutiable merchandise, is depriving
the importer of his property without due process of law, and is
therefore forbidden by the Constitution of the United States.'
The cases of fuvray's Lessee v. Hooken Land & 1mprove,2ent Company, 18 How. 272, and Sqpringer v. United States,
102 U. S. 686, are conclusive on this point against the plaintiff
in error.
We find no error in the record. The judgment of the Circuit
Court must, therefore be
Affirmed.

