EX PARTE CLODOMIRO COTA.
Opinion of the Court.

That was left to the discretion of the directors, who retained
their original authority to build through Howard County on
the way to the :Missouri. The original authority of Howard
County to subscribe to the stock was consequently unimpaired.
The fact that the branch through Callaway County was located,
and the subscription of that county received, before Howard
County made its subscription, is unimportant in this case, because the line through Callaway County was located as a
branch, while that through Howard County was designated in
express terms as the main line. If either part of the road was
built under new authority conferred on the company by the
act of 1868, it certainly was not the main line as located. The
power to build the main line was clearly conferred by the act
of 1859.
It follows that the judgment of the Circuit Court was right,
and it is consequently

EX PARTE CLODOIRO COTA.
ON CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION' OF OPINION FROM THE DISTRICT OF
CALIFORNIA.
Submitted January224, 184-Decided February 4th, 1884.

Division of Oiinion-uridiction.
This court cannot take jurisdiction of a certificate of division in opinion in
proceedings under writ of habeas corpus, until entry of final judgment,
.xpare Tom Tong, 108 U. S. 56-approved and followed.

. AsmistantItt
States.

rney-Gneraz -Yaury for the United

No counsel appeared for Clodomiro Cota.
R* CHiEF JusTicE W m, delivered the opinion of the court.

It was decided at the last iermin Exaparte Tom Tong, 108 U. S.
556, that this court could not take jurisdiction of a certificate
of division in olinion between the judges of a Circuit Court
voL. cx-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

in proceedings under a writ of habeas corpus until final judgment had been rendered in accordance with the opinion of
the presiding justice or judge. This is such a case, and it is
consequently remanded to the Circuit Court for further proceedings according to law.

WEBSTER & Another v. BUFFALO INSURANSCE COM-

PANY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Argued January 24th, 1835-Decided February 4th, 1834.

Jurisdicton.
When the pleadings plainly show that a sum below the jurisdictional amount
is in controversy, the court cannot accept a stipulation of the parties that
judgment may be entered for a sum in excess of that amount.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court. The question
of jurisdiction, decided in the case, was not raised by the parties, but was suggested by the court of 'its own motion during
the argument.
.Jfr.Jeferson Chandlerfor plaintiffs in error.
X7r. 0. B.

ansum for defendant in error.

delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit upon an open cargo policy of insurance issued
by the Buffalo Insurance Company to the firm of Webster,
Heinicke & Coglin "on shipments of merchandise to them at
MR.CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

St. Louis,

.

.

.

they stipulating to report all such shipments

and modes of transit to this office as soon as advised thereof."
The aggregate amount of the conpany's liabilities under the
policy was in no case to exceed $5,000 on one vessel at any one
time, unless special arrangements were mutually agreed upon for
amounts exceeding that sum. One of the conditions of the

