OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

District Court rejecting the claim of a supposed creditor against
the estate of the bankrupt, and for the reason that a proceeding to prove a debt is part of the suit in bankruptcy, and not
an independent suit at law or in equity. Such being the nature
of the proceeding, it is a matter of no consequence whether the
appeal from the District Court to the Circuit Court was taken
by the creditor or the assignee, for it has always been held
that this court has no control over judgments or orders made
by the Circuit Courts in mere bankruptcy proceedings. It is
unnecessary to repeat here what was said in TWiwa v. Camp
beIZ. This case and that are in all material respects alike.
lDismised.

THE MAMIE.
PARCEER & Another v. CUDDY, A dministrator.
ORIGINAI, MOTION,

ENTITLED IN

FROM THE CIRCUIT
EASTERN

COURT

A. CAUSE PENDING

OF THE

ON

APPEAL

UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MICHIGA..
Submitted March 4th, 1884.-Decided March lOth, IM

.Injunct"-.imWte Lia~y.

This court will refuse an application for injunction to stay proceedings begun
in a State court before the filing of a libel to obtain the benefit of the
limited liability act, Rev. St. ยง' 4283-4-5, -when it appears that both courts
below decided against the petitioner's right to the benefit of the act, -and
that no cause for granting the petition is shown except the expense con-

sequent upon trials in the State court pending the appeal.

The steam yacht Mamie, engaged in carrying passengers on
the Detroit :River, came into collision with another steamer and
sank, by reason of which several passengers were drowned.
Their administrator commenced suits in the State court to recover damages from the -owners of the yacht. The owners
then commenced proceediiigs in admiralty in the District Court
for the Eastern District of Michigan, to obtain the benefit of
the limited liability act. The District Court dismissed the libel

PARCHER v. CUDDY.
Opiniou of the CourL

on the ground that the vessel was not one of the class described
in the act. Appeal was then taken to the Circuit Court, where
the decree of the District Court was affirmned. The owners
of the yacht appealed to this court. Pending the appeal
here they prayed for a writ'of injunction to restrain the prosecution of the suits in the State courts by the administrator.
.M. Geo. F. Edmunds, made the motion and filed a brief in
support of it.
Ma.

CHIEF

JusTiCE W.A=r delivered the opinion of the court.

Without deciding whether an injunction may be granted
under any circumstances by this court to stay proceedings in
the State courts during the pendency of an appeal in a suit
brought by the owners of a vessel to obtain the benefit of the
limitation of liability provided for by ยง 4283, 4284, 4285,
and 4286 of the Revised Statutes, we are all of the opinion that
this motion should be denied. Both of the courts below have
decided that the vessel owned by the appellants did not come
within the purview of the statute, and consequently that the
relief asked for should not be granted. If the suits in the
State courts go on and judgments are rendered against the appellants, there is a way in which decisions overruling defences set
up under the statute may be brought here for review, and the
errors, if any, corrected.
In view of these facts we are not inclined to use the extra.
ordinary writ of injunction to stay proceedings in suits begun
in the State courts before the appellants filed their libel in the
District Court, simply because of the expense that will be consequent upon trials pending the appeal. If we have the power
it should not be used in a doubtful case, and after two judgments below denying the relief, unless the reasons are imperative.
Writ ref/used.

