CABLE v. ELLIS.
Statement of Facts.

opinion that the plaintiffs were entitled to recover at all, as
giving us jurisdiction. The dispute, as developed in the pleadings, was as to the liability of the company upon a contract of
insurance for $4,000, and no more. Arrangements between
parties contradictory to their pleadings, and so evidently made
for the purpose of enlarging the. case sufficiently to bring it
within the jurisdiction of this court, cannot be recognized here.
It follows that the writ should be dismissed for want of jurisdiction; and. it is so ordered.

CABLE v. ELLIS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TE
NORTHER_, DISTRICT OF ILLIMOIS.
Submitted January 14th, 1854-Decdded February 4th, 1

RemovaZ of Causa,.

After a suit in equity involving title to real estate and priority of len had
been long pending in a State court, and the highest court in the State had

decided some of the points in controversy, and had remanded the cause to
the court below to have other issues determined, A became interested
in the property by grant from one of the patties to the suit, and
intervened in it by leave of the State court to protect his rights at a time
when the right of removing the cause fibm the State court to the Federal
court had expired as to all the parties : Held,that under the circumstances
the intervention of A was to be regarded as incident to the original suit ;
and that he was subject to the disabilities resting on the party'from whom
he took title ; and that the time for removal having expired before he intervened, his right of removal was barred by that fact.

Bill in equity to determine priority of liens upon real estate
in Illinois and for other relief. The only question decided was
as to the right of removal of the cause from a State Court to a
Circuit Court of the United States. The facts which make
up the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
M . Cluzrles .X 08orn for appellant.
.X. George "W.S.pa r for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
m CHEF JusTIoE WArrE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from an order of the Circuit Court remanding a suit removed from a State court. From the confused
mass of pleadings, exhibits, proofs, orders, and decrees,
making a volume of more than five hundred printed pages,
sent here as a transcript of the record below, and the reports
of the decisions of the Supreme Court of Illinois in Sumner v.
JFavug, 56 Ill. 531, Cable v. Ellis, 86 111. 525, and Ellis v. Sisson,
96 Ill. 105, referred to on both sides as part of the case, we
have, with the help of the briefs of counsel, extracted the following facts, which, in our opinion, are decisive of the present
controversy:
On the 3d of June, 1858, Thomas B. Ellis bought of John
Mi[. Waugh and Henry B. Ellis certain lands and mill property
in fllinois. 'Waugh and Henry B. Ellis were at the time indebted to Thomas B. Ellis to the amount of $8,000 or thereabouts, and the mill property was encumbered by a mortgage
to Benjamin T. Sisson for $9,280. Thomas B. Ellis paid for
the property by releasing the debt due himself, assuming the
mortgage to Sisson, and giving his own notes to Waugh and
Henry B. Ellis, secured by mortgage on the property for
$14,984.54. On the 30th of September, 1858, Thomas B. Ellis
entered into a written contract with Sisson and John B. Rathbun for the sale, release, and conveyance of "all his paid in
interest" in the property, foi which the purchasers were to pay
as in the agreement specified, including with the rest such a
sum to Thomas B. Ellis personally as from authenticated bills
it should appear he had "paid in." To secure the payment of
such sum as should be found to be due him a mortgage was to
be given on the property. Under this contract possession was
delivered to the purchasers.
Disputes having arisen as to the amount of the "authenticated bills," Thomas B. Ellis, on the 21st of March, 1861,
filed a bill in chancery in the Mercer County Circuit Court
to enforce a specific performance of the contract. To this bill
Waugh, Sisson, and Rathbun were made defendants, and the
prayer was that the mortgages of Waugh and Henry B. Ellis
to Sisson, and Thomas B. Ellis to Waugh and Henry B. Ellis

CABLE ,v. ELLIS.
Opinion of the CourL.

might be cancelled, and that the amount of purchase money
due Thomas B. Ellis from Sisson and iRathbun might be ascertained and adjudged to be the paramount lien on the property
in the hands of the purchasers. As to Waugh, the averments
were, in substance, that he was "in fact and in equity" a purchaser of the property with Sisson and Rathbun, and that by the
terms of the contract, the notes and mortgage of Thomas B.
Ellis, then held by Waugh, and the mortgage to Sisson, were to
be cancelled and a first lien on the property given to Thomas B.
Ellis as security for the purchase money to be paid to him.
In 1862 Sisson assigned his notes and mortgages to Austin,
Sumner & Co., and in 1864 they began a suit for foreclosure in
the Mercer County Circuit Court, making Waugh, Sisson,
Thomas B. Ellis, and Henry B. Ellis defendants. Thomas B.
Ellis answered, and also filed a cross-bill, in which he set up
his sale of the property and a cancellation under that sale of
the mortgage to Sisson before the transfer to Austin, Sumner
& Co. The Circuit Court decreed against Austin, Sumner &
Co., and dismissed their bill, but upon appeal to the Supreme
Court, the decree dismissing the bill was reversed in 1869, but
the lien of Austin, Sumner & Co. was postponed to that of
Thomas B. Ellis for the purchase-money under his contract of
sale. As to the mortgage of Thomas B. Ellis to Waugh and.
Henry B. Ellis, the language of the opinion is as follows:
"This contract postponed also the mortgage in question to the
mortgage executed by T. B. Ellis to Waugh and H. B. Ellis.
They were not parties to it, and could not be bound by its provisions. Although the contract seems to contemplate that their
mortgage was also to be cancelled, it does not appear how or in
what mode, and not being parties to the agreement, they cannot
be affected by it. It is, therefore, the first lien on the property,
and must be so held. The whole case, somewhat complicated, it
is true, shows a contest between equities. That the complainants

have some which should have been regarded by the Circuit Court
and decreed to them, we cannot doubt. The bill should not,
therefore, have been dismissed. In order that the equities of the
complainants may be enforced, it seems necessary that there

should be a foreclosure of the Waugh and Ellis mortgage. .

.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
The pleadings are not framed with a view to any relief as to the
Waugh and Ellis mortgage, or as to any substitution of the
complainants to the rights of Waugh in the Waugh and Ellis
mortgage. Leave will be given to amend the pleadings as the
parties may be advised, and to take further proofs." ,Sumner v.
" augh, 56 Ill. 541, 542.
The case was then remanded for further proceedings in conformity with the opinion, in which suggestions were made as to
what should be done if the Waugh and Ellis mortgage should
be found to be a valid and subsisting lien.
After this decision Philander L. Cable took from Waugh an
assignment of the note and mortgage of Thomas B. Ellis to
Waugh and Henry B. Ellis, and in 1872 began a suit in the
Mercer County Circuit Court for a foreclosure. To this suit
Thomas B. Ellis, Sisson, and Austin, Sumner & Co. were made
defendants. Thomas B. Ellis answered, setting up his contract
of sale, and claiming a cancellation of the mortgage thereby.
On the 6th of May, 1873, an order was entered in the Circuit
Court consolidating the three suits, to wit, that of Thomas B.
Ellis, that of Austin, Sumner & Co., and that of Philander L.
Cable. From that time these three suits were proceeded in as
one and involving the same general matter. On the 10th of
June, 1875, the Circuit Court entered a decree establishing the
claim of Thomas B. Ellis as against Cable. From this decree
Cable appealed to the Supreme Court, where, in 1877, after
holding that the Sisson mortgage could not be enforced as
against Thomas B. Ellis, it was said in the opinion delivered:
"It was doubtless the intention of the contract of September
30th that the latter mortgage also [that to Waugh and Ellis,] as
well as the former [that of Sisson] should be cancelled, so as to
give T. B. Ellis a superior lien upon the property for the security
of the payment of his paid-in interest, and for the carrying out
of such intention, and being impressed with the justice of the
claim of T. B. Ellis that he should have such security, we have
anxiously sought for some satisfactory ground upon which we
might rest the support of such a claim, but we have not been able
to discover any. . . . The written contract of September

CABLE v. ELLIS.
Opinion of the Court.
30th, 1858, was not signed by Waugh, and we cannot hold him
as bound by that contract to discharge and release his mortgage,
although we may strongly suspect there was a secret understanding to that effect." Cabl v. Elli, 86 Ill. 539, 540.
The result was a decision that the Waugh and Ellis mortgage should be first paid, and an order was entered remanding
the suit to the Circuit Court for further proceedings in accordance with the opiniion.
The case was redocketed in the Circuit Court at or before
the May term, 1878, and on the 25th of November, Thomas B.
Ellis, by leave of the court, filed an amended bill, in which it
was averred, in substance, that while Waugh did not sign the
contract of purchase by Sisson and Rathbun, he did in fact
agree with Ellis at the time that if the sale was made on the
terms proposed, he would postpone his mortgage on the property to the lien of Ellis for the purchase money and release
Ellis from the payment of the notes. Answers were filed and
new testimony taken. Upon the hearing in the (ircuit Court
the lien of Cable, in preference to that of Thomas B. Efllis, was
established, and Ellis appealed. In 1880 the Supreme Court
reversed the decree of the Circuit Court, and in the opinion,
when speaking of the former decision in the case, it was said:
" There was no proof of such a joint written contract, or of such
a joint contract by Waugh, Sisson and Rathbun as alleged. The
allegations and proofs did not agree. The amendment which has
been made to the bill of Ellis, since the case was remanded, re,
moves the difficulty which before existed. It sets up a separate
verbal agreement on the part of Waugh td release the mortgage."
Then, after an examination of the testimony, the opinion
proceeds:
"We are satisfied, from the evidence, that outside of this written agreement there was a verbal agreement between Waugh and
Ellis to the purport that if Ellis would sell out to Sisson and
Rathbun, he, Waugh, would accept such sale in satisfaction of
the debt of Ellis to Waugh and H. B. Ellis. We think that by
virtue of this agreement, and the transfer of the property, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
was made by T. B. Ellis, and the full enjoyment of it ever since
by Sisson, Rathbun, and Waugh among them, the notes and mortgage to Waugh and H. B. Ellis were satisfied; and as those to
Sisson are also satisfied, that T. B. Ellis is entitled to the first lien
on the property for his paid-in interest."
Cable thereupon filed a petition for rehearing, and from the
opinion it appears that one of the grounds relied on was that
the court below had no right to allow the amendment of the
bill after the decision on the former appeal, by setting up in
substance that the agreement of Waugh was by parol instead
of in writing, as was originally alleged; but this petition was
overruled and the case remanded to the Circuit Court for further proceedings in accordance with the opinion. Eli/s v. Sisson, 96 Ill., at 114, 119, 122.
When the case got back to the Circuit Court, on the 10th of
February, 1881, a receiver of the property was appointed on
the application of Thomas B. Ellis and against the objections of
Cable.
During the year 1816, while the several suits were pending,
Philander L. Cable caused a small part of the property to be
laid off into lots, one of which went into the possession of Hiram
Cable. On the 14th of May, 1881, after the receiver was
appointed, Hiram Cable filed in the Circuit Court his petition
of intervention in the cause, on the ground that he was "pecuniarily interested in the subject-matter of the litigation, . .
and that the orders and decrees that may be entered concerning
the same may very materially affect him pecuniarily and conclude him with respect to his rights in the premises." He then
states in substance that
"on or about the -day of December, 1816, Philander L. Cable
was in the actual and exclusive possession of part of the premises
described in the pleadings, and represented that he had bought
the Waugh and Ellis mortgage ; that the mortgage had been declared by the Supreme Court to be a first lien on the property;
that in a short time there would be a final and conclusive decree
for a sale of the property ; that he should buy the property at

CABLE v. ELLIS.
Opinion of the Court.
the sale, and that in that way and others he would acquire an indefeasible title in the course of tvo or three years at the most."
Relying on these representations, Hiram'Cable, "on the saidday of December, 1876," orally agreed with Philander Cable to
purchase one of the lots that had been laid out, and to pay the
reasonable and -fair
value thereof when a title was made.
tnder this agreement, with the leave of Philander, he went
into the possession of the lot, relying on
"the said decision and determination of the said Supreme Court,
and then being fully advised by the pleadings and proceedings
herein of the extent and character of the claim of the said Thomas
B. Ellis in and to said premises, and fully believing the said claim
of the said Ellis was not other or different than he had himself stated
the same in his pleadings, and that he would forever thereafter be
estopped in equity and right, as against your petitioner or the said
Cable, to assert and maintain that the same was other or differeilt
than as stated in his said pleadings herein, your, petitioner did
enter upon and take possession of said lot and parcel of said
premises and has ever since remained in possession of the same."
After entering into possession, and while the rights of the
parties remained the same, he erected on the property permanent and lasting improvements of the value of $1,800. He
then charges that long after the improvements were made it was
adjudged and determined by said Supreme Court:
"upon and by virtue of a new and distinct claim (not germane to
or consistent with his original claim in the premises) made and
asserted by said Ellis, in and by an amendment to his pleadings,
long since said improvements were so made, .
.
that the
said mortgage so purchased by said Cable from said Waugh was
not a first lien upon said premises, but that the same was in equity
satisfied and discharged,"
and the lien of Ellis was established for more than the property
and all the improvements thereon were worth.
"But your petitioner says that the said Ellis ought not to be allowed in a court of equity to insist and maintain, as against your

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

petitioner, such a new claim, so made by his amendment aforesaid,
but that in equity and good conscience he ought to be stayed and
estopped from so interposing the same. That the said Cable has
in all things acted in good faith and fairly with your petitioner,
and has strenuously endeavored to maintain his claimed rights in
the premises, but that, as your petitioner believes, in case such
premises shall be sold in behalf of the said claim-of the said Ellis,
without the decree and direction of this court that the value of
said improvements shall be first paid to your petitioner out of the
proceeds of such sale, your petitioner will wholly lose all costs,
disbursements, labor, and expenses he has incurred in making the
same, as in such case the said Cable will not purchase said premises at such sale, and, as your petitioner is advised, that under the
facts and circumstances aforesaid, the said Cable will not be liable
in law or equity to your petitioner for the same, or in any respect,
on account of said agreement so made with him as aforesaid."
He then asserted the priority of the lien of the Waugh mortgage over that of Sisson, and that, although Ellis had notice of
his acts and proceedings, no objection was made to what he did
in the way of improvements. •After referring to the pleadings
and proceedings in the cause for further particulars, he submitted his rights to the court, and prayed that, if the premises
should be sold under the decree,
"it shall be ordered and directed that out of the proceeds of such
sale there shall be paid to your petitioner such part thereof as
shall bear the same ratio to the whole amount of the proceeds of
such sale, as the value of said improvements shall bear to the whole
value of said premises, or an amount equal to the value of said
improvements, such ratio or value of said improvements to be first
determined, as the court shall order and direct, in accordance with
chancery practice, and for such other and further relief in the
premises as shall seem meet and proper."
on the 21st of July, and:
This petition was answered by E
by the other parties in opposition within a few days after, but
on the 29th of July Ellis moved to strike the intervening petition from the files for reasons stated. Before this motion was
disposed of, and at the same term, to wit, on the 30th of July,

CABLE v. ELLIS.
Opinion of the Court.

Hiram Cable filed his petition for the removal of the causes as
consolidated to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Nqorthern District of Illinois, alleging that the value of the
matter in dispute exceeded $500; that he was a citizen of Iowa
and Ellis a citizen of :Missouri, and Austin, Sumner & Company citizens of Mfassachusetts; that none of the other parties
to the causes were citizens of Iowa; that "there is a controversy presented and made by his intervening petition
which is wholly between citizens of different States, and which
can be fully determined as between the sole partids interested
therein in the Circuit Court of the United States," and that
such controversy was solely Between him and Ellis and Austin,
Sumner & Co.
On the 29th of August the State court made an order staying all further proceedings in that court and transferring the
causes to the Circuit Court of the United States. Afterwards
all parties entered their appearance in the Circuit Court, and
thereupon Ellis moved to remand. This motion was granted
on the 6th of April, 1882, and from that order the present
appeal was taken.
Both Philander Cable and Hiram Cable acquired their
respective interests in the property involved in this litigation
during the pendency of the suit brought by Thomas B. Ellis in
1861, to establish his alleged superior lien. Philander Cable
is concluded by all that has been done, because he was and is
an actual party to the suit. There has been no time since the
first term of the M[ercer County Circuit Court, after the act of
March 3d, 1875, c. 137, was passed, that he could remove the
suit from the State court. .Rewval Caes, 100 U. S. 457.
Hiram Cable made the arrangement with Philander Cable on
which all his rights depend long after that time had gone by.
In fact, the decree of June 13th, 1875, was the result of a hearing begun after the act went into effect. So that.the question
here is whether Hiram Cable has by his petition of intervention, after twenty years of litigation between the original parties,
introduced a new and separate controversy into the suit, which
entitles him on his own application to transfer the whole case
to the Circuit Court of the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

If Hiram Cable is not to be concluded by anything done in
his absence, he ought not to be allowed to force himself into
the suit at this late day. No sale made under a decree to which
he is not actually or constructively a party can cut off his rights.
If he can be bound by a decree in his absence, it is because he
has been all the time represented in the suit by Philander Cable,
under whom he claims, and as an intervenor he can do nothing
that might not have been done for him by his representative
without his intervention. He took his place by intervention in
the suit subject to all the disabilities that rested at the time on
the party in whose stead he is to act. If his application to
have his rights in respect to the improvements he has put on
the property settled in this suit can be entertained at all, it will
be only as an incident to the original controversy, and whatever would bar a removal of suit before he intervened -will bar
him afterwards, even though by his intervention he may havie
raised a separate controversy.
This disposes of the case, for, as has already been seen, the
right to remove this suit was barred long before Hiram Cable
intervened. Without, therefore, determining whether Hiram
Cable can claim the benefit of his improvements, notwithstanding the pendency of the suit, or whether, if his petition had
been filed in time, he would have been entitled to a removal of
the suit on the showing made,
W~e cafflmm the order re zmu~ng the cauwe.

TUPPER & Another v. WISE.
IN ERROR TO THE C

CUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted January 28th, 1884.-Decided February 4th, 184.

Jurisfiction.
Distinct judgments in favor of or against distinct parties, though in the same
record, cannot be joined to give this court jurisdiction.

Notion to dismiss, with which is united a motion to affirm.

