LEGGETT v. ALLEN.
Opinion of the Court.

up in the bill, considered as a bill filed by the United States
on their own behalf and for their own use; but the bill itself
shows that it was filed for the benefit of the sureties, although
they may not have paid their recognizance when it was fied.
Without deciding, therefore, whether, on demurrer, the bill
might or might not have been sustained, considered purely as
a bill filed by the United States on their own behalf, we are
satisfied that its dismissal by the court below was right, considered as a bill filed on behalf, and for the benefit of, the
sureties. And as it is now admitted that the United States
have been satisfied and paid, and as, for this reason, if for no
other, the bill should be dismissed, our conclusion is that
The decree of the court below be ajfrmed, but without costseack arty to pay their oz= costs on this appeal.

LEGGETT v. ALLEN, Assignee.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCU=

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Submitted March 3d, 184.--DecIded March 10th, 1884.

Bankruptcy.
This court has no jurisdiction to review a judgment of a Circuit Court rendered in a proceeding upon an appeal from an order of a District Court
rejecting the claim of a supposed creditor against the estate of a bankrupt.
Wiwall v. Campbell, 93 U. S. 847, affirmed.

Motion to dismiss.
XrM.
A. J Pals for appellee, moving.
Mr. 2'horndike Saunders for appellant, opposing.
MR.

CmxF fTusTn WAIrE delivered the opinion of the court.

This motion is granted on the authority of TFiswa!l v.
Campbei,93 U. S. 347, in which it was decided that this court
has no jurisdiction to review a judgment of the Circuit Court,
rendered in a proceeding upon an appeal from an order of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

District Court rejecting the claim of a supposed creditor against
the estate of the bankrupt, and for the reason that a proceeding to prove a debt is part of the suit in bankruptcy, and not
an independent suit at law or in equity. Such being the nature
of the proceeding, it is a matter of no consequence whether the
appeal from the District Court to the Circuit Court was taken
by the creditor or the assignee, for it has always been held
that this court has no control over judgments or orders made
by the Circuit Courts in mere bankruptcy proceedings. It is
unnecessary to repeat here what was said in TWiwa v. Camp
beIZ. This case and that are in all material respects alike.
lDismised.

THE MAMIE.
PARCEER & Another v. CUDDY, A dministrator.
ORIGINAI, MOTION,

ENTITLED IN

FROM THE CIRCUIT
EASTERN

COURT

A. CAUSE PENDING

OF THE

ON

APPEAL

UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MICHIGA..
Submitted March 4th, 1884.-Decided March lOth, IM

.Injunct"-.imWte Lia~y.

This court will refuse an application for injunction to stay proceedings begun
in a State court before the filing of a libel to obtain the benefit of the
limited liability act, Rev. St. ยง' 4283-4-5, -when it appears that both courts
below decided against the petitioner's right to the benefit of the act, -and
that no cause for granting the petition is shown except the expense con-

sequent upon trials in the State court pending the appeal.

The steam yacht Mamie, engaged in carrying passengers on
the Detroit :River, came into collision with another steamer and
sank, by reason of which several passengers were drowned.
Their administrator commenced suits in the State court to recover damages from the -owners of the yacht. The owners
then commenced proceediiigs in admiralty in the District Court
for the Eastern District of Michigan, to obtain the benefit of
the limited liability act. The District Court dismissed the libel

