SIOUX CITY & PAC. R.R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 205
Opinion of the Court.
SIOUX CITY & PACIFIC RAILROAD COTPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF IOWA.
Submitted December 18th, 1883.-Decided January 21st, 1884.

Internal Revenue-Land Grant Razlroads-Statutes-Taxation.
Under the act of July 1st, 1862, 12 Stat. 492-3, and the acts in addition to it,
plaintiff in error received from defendant in error subsidy bonds, which
were made by statute a lien upon its road : Held, That, in a suit to collect an internal revenue tax on the undivided net earnings of the road,
carried to a fund or to construction account, the plaintiff was not entitled
to have the interest upon these bonds deducted from its net earnings before settling the amount to be subject to the tax ; but that the amount of

that interest, if earned and carried to a fund or charged to construction,
was taxable.
Suit to recover an internal revenue tax on the undivided net
earnings of the plaintiff's railroad. Defence that the company
was not subject to the tax to the extent of the interest on the
subsidy bonds issued to it under the act of July 1st, 1862, 12
Stat. 489, ch. 120.
.Mr.

. S. Bailey for plaintiff in error.

-M'. Solicitor-Generalfor defendant in error.
Mr. JUSTIcE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action brought by the United States against the
Sioux City & Pacific Railroad Company to recover certain arrears
of taxes alleged to have accrued from November, 1868, to September, 1871, inclusive. The first count of the declaration states
that for the eleven months ending September 30th, 1868, the gross
receipts of the company from passengers were $51,786.12, on
which it became liable to pay atax of 21-per cent., or $1,294.55;
and that the undivided net earnings of the company for the
same period, which were carried to the construction fund or
account, were $43,889.39, on which the company became liable
to pay a tax of 5 per cent., amounting to $2,194.41; that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

company paid the tax on gross receipts, but refused to pay the
tax on net earnings carried to construction account. Three
other counts for the following years showed an aggregate
arrearage (including that stated in the first count) of over
$11,000. There were four other counts .for penalties, to
which the statute of limitations was pleaded, and which are
not the subject of controversy. Issue being taken on the first
four counts, the parties entered into a stipulation for the purpose of showing the precise matter in dispute.
This stipulation, after stating the title of the cause, was

as follows :
"The parties to the above-entitled action hereby stipulate to
waive a jury on the trial thereof. For the purpose of the trial of
this action the following facts are admitted:
"1. All the material facts alleged in the first count of the
petition are true, subject to the following statement and exception,
to wit: The amount of interest accrued during the period mentioned in said count on the subsidy bonds (so-called) issued by the
United States to said defendant in pursuance of the act of Congress
entitled ' An Act to aid in the construction of a railroad and telegraph line from the Missouri River to the Pacific Ocean, and
to secure to the government the use of the same for postal, military, and other purposes,' approved July first, 1862, and the
amendments thereto, was the sum of thirty-six thousand dollars
($36,000). If the said sum of $36,000 is subject in law to be
deducted from the gross receipts of the defendant in order to
ascertain the net earnings thereof for the period named, then the
amount of the net earnings liable to-a tax of five per cent. is the
sum of seven thousand eight hundred and eighty-eight and 4W%dollars ($7,888.39), and the tax on the same is three hundred
ninety-four and -f% dollars ($394.41), instead of the sum of
$2,194.41, as claimed in said count."

Similar admissions were made withregard to the other counts,
and the stipulation concluded as follows:
" If the court is of the opinion that the interest which accrued on
the said subsidybonds for the several periods named is subject to be

SIOUX CITY & PAC.R.R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 207
Opinion of the Court.
deducted from the gross receipts in order to ascertain the net
earnings, then the plaintiff is entitled to recover$394 51
On the first count only ........................
52 60
On the second count only ......................
1,434 37
On the third count only .......................
221 81
And on the fourth count .......................
"1Total ........................... $2,103 29
"But if, on the other hand, the court should be of the opinion
that the said interest accrued on said bonds is not subject to be
deducted, the plaintiff is entitled to receive$2,194 51
On the first count ...........................
3,944 77
On the second count .........................
3,416 23
On the third count ..........................
221 81
On the fourth count .........................
"lMaking a total of ................

$9,777 32"

Upon this state of facts, the court gave judgment for the
latter sum, and the company has brought this writ of error to
review said judgment.
We think that the judgment was right. The accruing interest on the subsidy bonds loaned by the government to the
company, is payable by the company at a future day, to wit,
at the maturity of the bonds; and if a sufficient amount of
the company's annual net earnings is laid aside (as it should
be) to meet that interest when it shall become due, the amount
so laid aside would be directly within the scope of the Internal Revenue Act, as it stood when the net earnings in question
arose. The 122d section of that act, as amended in 1866, imposed a five per cent. tax, not only on all payments of interest
due on bonds and on all dividends declared by any railroad or
canal company, but also on "all profits of such company carried to the account of any fund, or used for construction."
The profits here referred to are the profits arising from the
operation of the road or canal, without deduction of interest
paid to its bondholders or dividends paid to its stockholders,
and correspond to the phrase "net earnings" used in the stipuRailroad
lation of the parties in this case. Union Paoe
Company v. Unitd States, 99 U. S. 402. The expression in

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

the act, "Profits carried to the account of any fund," would
cover the exact case here if any portion of such net earnings
had been carried to a fund created for meeting the interest to
be paid on the subsidy bonds. It is very clear, therefore, that
whether the whole of said net earnings were carried to construction account (as admitted in the stipulation) or a part of it
were carried to account of such accruing interest fund, it
would be expressly taxable by the Internal Revenue Act.
The same result, we think, would have followed had the interest in the subsidy bonds been payable by the company semiannually as it fell due; for although the words of the Internal
Revenue Act, as that act stood when the transactions in question occurred, 14 Stat. 138, imposed the five per cent. tax upon
interest due and payable by a railroad or canal company only
where such company was indebted for "money for which
bonds or other evidence of indebted,'ess have bee issued, payable in one or more years after date, upon which interest is
stipulated to be paid, or coupons representing the interest;"
which words may be regarded as literally referring only to
"bonds or other evidence of indebtedness" issued by the company itself; yet, if the company had been obliged to pay the
interest accruing on the sibsidy bonds semi-annually as the
same fell due, said bonds would have been, in effect, the bonds
"or other evidence of indebtedness" of the company. Though
in form government bonds; the subsidy act makes them a mortgage lien on the property of the company, and ultimately payable by the company, principal and interest, 12 Stat. 492, 493;
and if an obligation had been imposed by the statute to pay
both principal and interest as they respectively fell due, it
would have made them substantially and in effect the bonds of
the company, and fairly taxable under the Internal Revenue Act.
Be this, however, as it may, it is clear that where, as in the
present case, the interest is to be provided for by a fund, in the
nature of a sinking fund, to be laid by for the purpose, the case
comes within the express terms of the Internal Revenup Act;
and no deduction of such accruing interest can be made from
the taxable net earnings of the company.
The judgment of thse Ciruie~Court is uaflrmed.

