BUSSEY v. EXCELSIOR MANUFACTURING CO. 131
Syllabus.

BUSSEY & Another v. EXCELSIOR MANUFACTURING

COMIPANY.
EXCELSIOR MANUFACTURING

COKPFANY v. BUS-

SEY & Another.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF M1ISSOURI.
Argued January 8th, 1884.-Decided January 21ct, 1884.

Patent.
The first four claims of reissued letters patent No. 3,815, granted to Esek
Bussey and Charles A. McLeod, February 1st, 1870, for a "cooking-stove,"
the original patent, No. 56,686, having been granted to said Bussey, as inventor, July 24th, 1866, and reissued to him, as No. 3,649, September 28th,
1869, namely : "1. A diving-flue cooking stove with the exit-flue so constructed as to inclose on the sides and bottom the culinary boiler or hotwater reservoir B ; 2. A diving-flue cooking-stove with the exit-flue constructed across the bottom and up the rear upright side of the culinary
boiler or hot-water reservoir B ; 3. A diving-flue cooking-stove constructed
with an exit passage, F, below the top of the oven, and an exit-flue, E ',
in combination with an uneased reservoir, B, attached to the rear of the
stove, and placed just above such exit passage, and so arranged that the
gases of combustion, in passing through such exit-flue, will impinge upon
or come in direct contact with said reservoir, substantially as and for the
purposes bereinbefore specified; 4. An exit-passage, F, constructed in the
rear of a diving-flue cooking-stove and below the top of the oven, in combination with an uncased reservoir, B, attached to the rear of the stove,
the bottom of which reservoir is also below the top of the oven, and so
arranged that the gases of combustion will come in contact with, and heat
such reservoir by, a direct draft from the fire-box to the smoke-pipe," are
limited to a structure in which the front of the reservoir has no air space
in front of it, and in which the exit-flue does not expand into a chamber at
the bottom of the reservoir, and in which the vertical part of the exit-flue
does not pass up through the reservoir.
Hence, those claims are not infringed by a stove in which, although there are
three flues, and an exit-passage below the top of the oven, and a reservoir
the bottom of which is below the top of the oven, no part of the rear-end
vertical plate is removed so as to allow the gases of combustion to come
into direct contact with the front of the reservoir, nor is any such plate
employed as the plate w w of the patent, but there is a dead air-space between the rear plate of the flue and the front of the reservoir, and the exitflue is not a narrow one, carried across the middle of the bcttom of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
reservoir, as in the patent, but the products of combustion, on leaving the
flue space, pass into a chamber beneath the reservoir, the area of which is
co-extensive with the entire surface of the bottom of the reservoir, and the
vertical passage out of such chamber is not one outside of the rear of the
reservoir, but is one in and through the body of the reservoir, and removable with it.
The claim of letters patent No. 142,933, granted to David H. Nation and
Ezekiel C. Little, as inventors, September 16th, 1873, for an "improvement
in reservoir cooking-stoves," namely, "1. The combination, with the backplate I of the cooking-stove A, of the reservoir C. arranged on a support
about midway between the top and bottom plates of the stove, and the airchamber b between the stove back and reservoir front, open at the top, and
communicating with the air in the room, substantially as and for the purposes set forth ; 2. The combination, with the stove A and reservoir, C, of
the small opening a, the sheet-flue G under the entire bottom of the reservoir, and the small exit-passage or pipe E, all substantially as and for the
purposes herein set forth," are void for want of novelty.
The claims of letters patent No. 142,934, granted to said Nation and Little,
September 16th, 1873, for an "improvement in reservoir cooking-stoves,"
namely, 1"1. The detachable base-pan or flue-shell D, attached to the body
at a point near the centre of the back plate of the stove, by means of
hooks a a cast on the base-pan, and pins b b on the stove body, substantially for the purposes herein set forth ; 2. The portable reservoir F, with
the flue E in the rear side, in combination with the portable base-pan or
flue-shell D, substantially as and for the purposes herein set forth ; 3. The
combination, with a three-flue stove having damper H arranged as described,
of the portable base-pan or flue-shell D and warming-closet G, all substantially as and for the purposes herein sat forth," are void for want of
novelty.
There was no invention, in claim 1, in using, to attach the base-pan, an old
mode used in attaching other projecting parts of the stove.
Claims 2 and 3 are merely for aggregations of parts and not for patentable
combinations.
-Yr. C6u ze8 J. Bunt for Bussey & Another.
_fr. S. A. Duncan for Excelsior Manufacturing Company.
ML JusTicE. BI&TcH oRD delivered the opinion of the court.
-This is a suit in equity brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Missouri, by Esek
Bussey and Charles A. McLeod against the Excelsior Manufacturing Company of St. Louis, a corporation, for the infringement of three several letters patent, being (1) reissue No. 3,815,
granted to the plaintiffs, February 1st, 1870, for a "'cooking-

BUSSEY v. EXCELSIOR MKNUFACTURING CO. 133
Opinion of the Court.
stove," the original patent, No. 56,686, having been granted to
said Bussey, as inventor, July 24th, 1866, and reissued to him,
as No. 3,619, September 28th, 1869; (2) letters patent No.
142,933, granted to David H. Nation and Ezekiel C. Little, as
inventors, September 16th, 1873, for an "improvement in reservoir cooking-stoves;" (3) letters patent No. 142,934, granted
to said Nation and Little, as inventors, September 16th, 1873,
for an "improvement in reservoir cooking-stoves." After an
answer and proofs, the Circuit Court made a decree finding no
infringement of No. 3,815 and dismissing the bill as to that
patent; decreeing that the other two patents were valid and
had been infringed as to all their claims; and awarding a perpetual injunction as to those claims and an accounting before
a master. The master reported one cent damages. The plaintiffs excepted to the report, claiming $14,972 damages. The
court confirmed the report and made a decree accordingly,
which also provided that the entire costs to be taxed in the
of
suit should be divided and that the plaintiffs should pay 4rthem and the defendant 2. Both parties appealed to this
court.
The specification of No. 3,815 says:
"Figure 1 is a side elevation ; Fig. 2, a rear elevation; Fig. 3,
a plan; Fig. 4, a vertical section at the line z z; Fig. 5, a front
view of a section at the line y y ; and Fig. 6, a top view of a partial section at the line x x, all of a cooking-stove embodying my
said invention, like parts being marked by the same letters in all
the figures, and the arrows therein being indicative of the courses
in which the gases of combustion pass through the stove. One
part of my invention consists in arranging a culinary boiler or
hot-water reservoir in the rear of the oven of a diving-flue cooking
stove, with an exit-flue extending down the front, under the bottom
and up the rear of the said reservoir, substantially as hereinafter
described and specified. It also consists in arranging a culinary
boiler or hot-water reservoir in the rear of the oven of a diving-flue
cooking-stove, with an exit-flue leading from some point in the rear
of the vertical flue or flues below the top of the said oven, and continuing under the bottom and up the rear side of said reservoir,
substantially as hereinafter described and specified. It also con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

sists in the arrangement of a diving-flue cooking-stove,
exit-passage constructed in the vertical rear flue or flues
and below the top of the oven, in such a manner that the
combustion, after passing through such exit-passage, will

with an
thereof,
gases of
impinge

pm'

upon or come in contact with the bottom or sides of a reservoir
placed in the rear of the stove, and just above said exit-passage,
substantially as hereinafter described and specified. It also consists in the employment of a thin plate or sheet of metal between
the front plate of the reservoir and the rear-end vertical flues of

BUSSEY v. EXCELSIOR MAN-UFACTURING CO. 135
Opinion of the Court.
the said stove, substantially as shown and specified. In illustration of my invention, the aforesaid drawings represent a cookingstove having an oven, A, a culinary boiler or hot-water reservoir,
B, arranged opposite to the rear upright side or end dof the oven,
and an exit-flue, E E', extended from the central vertical flue K of
said stove at a point below the top of the oves, under or across
the bottom g of the reservoir, and from thence up along the rear
upright side of said boiler or reservoir to the draft-pipe I. For
the purpose of allowing the boiler to heat more readily, a portion
of the rear-end vertical plate of said stove is removed, so as to
uncover the upper portion of the rear-end vertical flues, and the
front of the boiler is attached to the rear of said flues, in the manner shown and described in my reissued patent of July 24th, 1866.
Between the inner side of the boiler B and the rear-end vertical
flues K and L L', a plate may be employed, indicated by dotted
line i w. The object of this plate is as follows: It has been as-.
certained by experience that when, during the use of the oven
for baking purposes, a large quantity of cold water is suddenly
poured into the reservoir, and there is nothing between the front
of the boiler and gases of combustion passing through the rearend vertical flues, the heat of the said gases will be so much absorbed by the reservoir as to sensibly cool the oven and interfere
with the process of baking. To obviate this I employ the thin
plate w w, placed between the front of the reservoir and the said
rear-end vertical flues, and which, while it allows sufficient heat
to pass through it to aid in heating the boiler, protects the front
thereof from the direct impact of the gases of combustion, and
preserves an equable heat in the oven. In case the said plate is
dispensed with the inner side J of the said boiler will form a part
of the lateral rear casing of the said rear-end vertical flues, and
will be heated by direct contact with the gases of combustion as
they pass down and up the same. M is the fire-box, and N and
R the top and bottom flues of said stove. The operation of my
said invention is as follows : A fire being kindled in the fire-bot
M, and the damper Q at the top of the oven being open, so as to
allow of a direct draft, the gases of combustion from the said firebox will pass down the middle vertical flue K, through the exitpassage F and exit-flue E E', to the smoke-pipe I, heating the contents of the reservoir in its passage through the exit-flue, as aforesaid. By this mode of construction I am enabled to obviate what

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

has been heretofore the greatest objection to reservoir-stoves of
this class, namely; that the reservoirs would not heat with a direct
draft. It will also be observed that, by this device of constructing
the exit-passage below the top of the oven, I can at the same
time by a direct draft heat the rear side of the oven and the reservoir, instead of-wasting the heat by carrying it directly to the
chimney. When the damper Q is closed, for the purpose of heating the oven, the gases of combustion will pass down the side
vertical flues L L' and under the bottom of the oven, returning
through a central horizontal flue to the central vertical flue K,
from which they pass through the exit-flue E E', aforesaid. I am
aware that cooking-stoves have been in use in which the reservoir
has been incased or inclosed on all sides except the top by a kind
of expanded flue, through which the gases of combustion are made
to pass. The advantages of my plan over this device are twofold :
-First, it is much more economical, requiring far less material and
labor to construct it ; and, second, by confining the heat and gases
of combustion to a small space at the bottom afid rear of the
reservoir, the contents thereof will be much more effectually heated
than where the products of combustion are admitted to an extensive flue-space and permitted to rise and expend their heat at
or near the top of the reservoir."
The claims of the patent, the first 4 only of which are alleged to have been infringed, are as follows:
"11. A diving-flue cooking-stove with the exit flue so constructed as to inclose on the sides and bottom the culinary boiler
or hot-water reservoir B. 2. A diving-flue cooking-stove with
'the exit-flue constructed across the bottom and up the rear
upright side of the culinary boiler or hot-water reservoir B.
3. A diving-flue cooking-stove constructed with an exit passage,
F, below the top of the oven, and an exit-flue E E', in combination with an uncased reservoir, B, attached to the rear of the
stove, and placed just above such exit passage, and so arranged
that the gases of combustion, in passing through such exit-flue,
will impinge upon or come in direct contact with said reservoir,
substantially as and for the purposes hereinbefore specified.
4. An exit-passage, F, constructed in the rear of a diving-flue
cooking-stove and below the top of the oven, in combination with

BUSSEY v. EXCELSIOR MANUFACTURING CO. 137
Opinion of the Court.
an uncased reservoir, B, attached to the rear of the stove, the bottom of which reservoir is also below the top of the-oven, and so
arranged that the gases of combustion will come in contact with
and heat such reservoir by, a direct draft from the fire-box to
the smoke-pipe. 5. In a cooking-stove wherein the rear-end vertical plate, or a portion of the same, has been removed for the purpose of heating a reservoir placed in the rear thereof, the shieldplate w w, in combination with the uneased reservoir B and the
rear-end vertical flues K, L, and L', substantially as and for the
purposes hereinbefore described and specified."
The defendant's stove has three flues and an exit-passage below the top of the oven, and a reservoir, the bottom of which is
below the top of the oven; but no part of the rear-end vertical
plate is removed so as to allow the gases of combustion to
come into direct contact with the front of the reservoir, nor
is any of such plate employed as the plate w w of the patent,
but there is a dead air-space between the rear plate of the flue
and the front of the reservoir. The exit-flue is not a narrow
one, carried across the middle of the bottom of the reservoir,
as in the patent, but the products of combustion, on leaving
the flue-space, pass into a chamber beneath the reservoir, the
area of which is co-extensive with the entire surface of the bottom of the reservoir; and the vertical passage out of such chamber is not one outside of the rear of the reservoir, but is one
in and through the body of the reservoir, and removable with
it. In view of the earlier patents put in evidence, we are of
opinion that the 4 claims in question must be limited to a
structure in which the front of the reservoir has no air-space
in front of it, and in which the exit-flue does not expand into
a chamber at the bottom of the reservoir, and in which the
vertical part of the exit-flue does not pass up through the reservoir. Under this construction there is no infringement of
No. 3,815.
Claim 1, in requiring that the exit-flue shall "inclose on the
sides and bottom," the reservoir, requires, in the language of
the text of the specification, that it shall extend "down the
front, under the bottom and up the rear" of the reservoir;

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

and it does not admit of an air-space in front of the reservoir;
nor is it limited to what is called a low-down boiler or reservoir. The Getz patent of 1840 shows an exit-flue passing
under the bottom and up the rear side of a reservoir. The
Spaulding or Paris patent of 1858 shows a diving-flue inclosing
the bottom and one of the sides of a reservoir.
Claim 2 is not limited to a low-down boiler or reservoir. If
a stove with an exit-flue constructed across the bottom and up
the rear upright side of a boiler or reservoir existed before,
there was nothing patentable in applying such construction to
a diving-flue stove. The combination of exit-flue and reservoir
with which claim 2 is concerned has no patentable relation to
the arrangement of the internal flues of the stove. The Getz
patent of 1840 shows an exit-flue extending across the bottom and up the rear upright side of a boiler. In the Stewart
patent of 1859 the products of combustion enter a chamber
under the reservoir and thence pass off by a pipe embraced
within the walls of the reservoir. The exit-flue of claim 2
must, therefore, be limited to one which passes under the bottom of the reservoir without expanding into a chamber substantially co-extensive with the area of the bottom of the
reservoir, as in the defendant's stove and in the Stewart patent of 1859 ; and also to one in which the escape-pipe is outside
of the rear wall of the reservoir and not within the reservoir,
as in the defendant's stove and in the Stewart patent of 1859.
Claim 3 adds to claim 2 only the feature of having the exitpassage or exit-orifice into the exit-flue, below the top of the
oven. There is no patentable relation between the combination of exit-flue and reservoir and the location of the exit-passage with reference to the oven, in view of the state of the art.
In the Stewart patent of 1859 the exit-opening was on a level
with the top of the oven and led into a chamber under the
reservoir. In the Spaulding or Paris patent of 1858, and
in the Bussey patent of 1865, the boitom of the reservoir
was below the top of the oven. There was no invention in
causing the gases to act on a low-down reservoir in the same
way in which they had acted before on an elevated reservoir;
and no invention in lowering the exit opening to correspond

3USSEY v.EXCELSIOR TANTFACTURING CO. 139
Opinion of the Court.
with the depression of the reservoir, even though the incidental
effect was to heat by a direct draft, at the same time, the
reservoir and the rear side of the oven.
Claim 4 adds to claim 3 only the feature of heating the
reservoir by a direct draft from the fire-box to the smokepipe. This, however, is only a statement of the effect produced in a structure made according to the first three claims.
In the Getz patent of 1840 and in the Stewart patent of 1859
the exit-pipe was in the rear of the reservoir, and the gases
were brought into contact with the bottom of the reservoir,
and it was heated by a direct draft. There is really nothing
in claim 4 beyond what is found in claim 3.
The specification of No. 142,933 is as follows:
"Our invention relates to that class of cooking-stoves in which
a water reservoir is situated at the rear end of the stove ; and
it consists in the arrangement of the reservoir upon an extended
support at the rear of the stove, so that an air-chamber, opening at its top into the air of the room, is left between the backplate of the stove and the front of the reservoir, thereby
protecting the front of the same from becoming burned out
by being in direct contact with the heat from the fire. It
also consists in a broad sheet-flue arranged under the reservoir, the heated air for which enters through a small passage
in the back-plate of the stove, and, after circulating in said
flue, passes out through the small opening in the rear thereof,
all as more fully hereinafter set forth.

.

.

.

Figure 1 is a

longitudinal vertical section of our stove ; Fig. 2 is a transverse vertical section of the same through the water-reservoir ; Fig. 3 is a plan view of the reservoir; and Fig. 4 is
a front view of the sheet-flue under the bottom of the reservoir.
A represents the top plate of the stove. B is the oven ; C, the
water-reservoir ; D, the centre one of the three flues of the stove ;
and E, the exit-flue, located in the rear of the reservoir C. This
reservoir is located upon a support therefor, which extends rearward from a point about half way between the top and bottom
plates of the stove, and which may either be attached to or form
part of the stove, and a sheet-flue, G, is provided in the same under the bottom of the'reservoir C. The heat, entering this flue,

,OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

passes through the small centre passage a in the stove-back L It
is there spread and retained. under the reservoir until it gradually
ascends through the small passage or exit-flue E. By this con-

(7T

struction the rapid exit of the heated air from under the reservoir
is prevented, and the heat, being retained under the bottom of
the reservoir, causes the water in the same to become hot in a
short time. The reservoir C is so arranged with respect to the

BUSSEY v. EXCELSIOR MANUFACTURING CO. 141
Opinion of the Court.
back-plate I of the stove that an air-space, b, communicating with
the air of the room at the top, is left between the front of the
reservoir and the back-plate. By this means the outside air will
pass down between the back-plate and front of the reservoir and
prevent the front of the reservoir from burning out, which would
be the case if the parts were in direct contact, especially when
the water in the reservoir becomes low. In the ordinary method
the flame is made to strike directly upon the front surface of the
reservoir, thereby rendering it liable to crack while replenishing
with cold water upon the heated plates. The opening a in the
back-plate I of the stove is of the same width as the centre-flue
'D, and the products of combustion pass through said opening
into the sheet-flue G, which thus has a contracted entrance and
a contracted exit. When using the direct draft the damper d of
the centre flue D is turned downward and rests against the backoven plate, as shown by the dotted lines in Fig. 1. At such times
the heat passes down the centre-flue D of the back, through the
opening a in the back-plate I, into the sheet-flue G under the bottom of the reservoir, and out of the exit-flue E. When the indirect draft is used, the damper d occupies the position shown in
Fig. 1, and at such times the heat passes down the usual side
flues and under the bottom of the oven to the front of the stove,
where it turms into the centre-flue D and passes back through the
opening a to the sheet-flue G under the bottom of the reservoir
and out of the exit-flue. With a stove thus constructed, the
reservoir is heated almost entirely from the bottom, and the heat
acts upon the entire surface of the bottom of the reservoir, and
when the reservoir is but partially filled there is no danger of the
heat acting against, and burning out, the top part of the front
side of the reservoir. We do not claim under this patent a flueshell and rear central extension that is detachable from the stovebody by means of hooks on the one and catches or pins on the
other, nor do we specifically claim a reservoir with a flue in its
rear, as these elements of invention are the subject of a separate
application for a patent, now pending; neither do we wish to be
understood as claiming the arrangement of the reservoir and flues
for heating the same in front of the fire-box of the stove, as shown
in our patent of May 6th, 1873, No. 138,682."
The claims of No. 142,933 are 2 in number, as follows, and
the infringement of both is admitted:

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

"1. The combination with the back-plate I of the cookingtove A, of the reservoir C, arranged on a support about midway
between the top and bottom plates of the stove, and the airchamber b between the stove-back and reservoir-front, open at
the top and communicating with the air in the room, substantially
as and for the purposes set forth. 2. The combination, with the
stove A and reservoir C, of the small opening a, the sheet-flue G
under the entire bottom of the reservoir, and the small exit-passage or pipe E, all substantially as and for the purposes herein
set forth."
The point of invention in claim 1 is in so arranging the
reservoir as to have an air-space between the front plate of the
reservoir and the back plate of the stove, to a sufficient extent
to prevent the flame from striking against the upper part of
the front plate Jof the reservoir, which it would do if the upper
part of the back plate of the stove were cut away, and there
were no such air-space. It is the upper part of the front side
of the reservoir which, as the specification states, is liable to be
'burned out by the direct action of the flame, as the water in
the reservoir is lowered. In the McDowell patent of 1871 all
the upper part of the reservoir is protected by an air-space,
open at the top, between the reservoir and the stove.
The point of invention in claim 2 is to take the gases through
a small opening into a broad sheet-flue under the bottom of a
reservoir and out through another small opening in the rear,
so that they will circulate in the broad flue and act on the
entire surface of the bottom of the reservoir. The Stewart
patent of 1859 shows the same arrangement with an elevated
reservoir, but there is no invention in applying it to a low-down
reservoir. The Tiffany patent of 1869 shows the same arrangement with a low-down reservoir.
The specification of No. 142,934: says:
"The nature of our invention consists in the construction and
arrangement of a cooking-stove with a portable base-pan or flueshell, and the means for attaching the same, as will be hereinafter
more fully set forth. . . . Figure 1 is a longitudinal vertical
section of our improved cooking-stove ; Fig. 2 is a side view of

BUSSEY v. EXCELSIOR MANUFACTURING CO. 143
Opinion of the Court.
the rear end of the same; Fig. 3 is a plain view of a loose cover
or plate for the base-pan ; and Fig. 4 is a perspective view of the
portable base-pan or flue-shell. A represents the main baking-

.-XV

)

m

I

m

oven of the stove; B is the top flue; B B', the vertical and horizontal side flues ; C is the centre flue ; D is the base-pan or flueshell; E, the exit-flue passing up the rear side of the reservoir;

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court

F is the reservoir; G, the warming-closet; H, the damper; I,
the fire-chamber; and J, the division-plate. When using the
direct draft, the damper H occupies a line parallel with the back
plate of the main oven, hanging down in the centre flue of the
back part of the stove. At such time the products of combustion pass from the fire chamber I, along the top flue B, and down
the centre flue, between the back oven-plate and the divisionplate J, into the base-pan D, and out of the exit-flue E. When
using the indirect draft the damper H occupies the position
shown in Fig. 1. At such time the products of combustion pass
over the top oven-plate flue B, and down the vertical end flues
B', into corresponding flues at the bottom, making the turn into
the centre flue of the bottom at C, through said bottom centre
flue, into and through the rear centre flue, through the divisionplate J, into the base-pan flue D, and out of exit-flue E, so that,
whether using the direct or indirect draft, the reservoir is heated
only on its bottom surface. The base-pan D is made separate
from the stove, and provided on each side with a hook projection, a, to be fastened on a pin, b, projecting from the side of the
stove. By this means the base-pan can readily be attached and.
detached, and when attached it fits in the upper end and forms
the top of the warming-oven G. K represents a plate with two
boiler-holes in it, which can be used when the reservoir is removed or should become broken in shipment, thus converting it
into a six-hole stove. It is our purpose to insert a loose centre
piece between the boiler-holes in the plate K, so that an ordinary
wash-boiler can be used on said plate, if desired. The novelty
of this invention consists in the portability of the reservoir basepan D and in the warming-closet attachment, whereby we economize space in shipment, and whereby repairs can be made at a
very small cost and by unskilled workmen, as all the attachments
will be shipped separate from the body of the stove, and mounted
after they reach their destination. Should the reservoir become
broken in shipment or otherwise, the plate K can be used, thus
converting it into a six-hole stove, upon which an ordinary washboiler can be used in case of emergency. The front bottom
corner of the reservoir rests upon a strip, d, attached to the division-plate J, which thus entirely shuts off the air-space at the
bottom. By means of the base-pan flue D extending under the
whole bottom of the reservoir F and the space between the reser-

BUSSEY v. EXCELSIOR MANUFACTURING CO. 145
Opinion of the Court.
voir and the division-plate J, the reservoir becomes heated only
on its bottom surface, where there will always be water, if any
in the reservoir at all. The exit-flue E passes up through and
forms part of the reservoir F at the back or rear side, as shown.
We do not claim, under this specification, the combination of the
reservoir with the back of the stove when an air-space open at
the top is left between the two, as seen in the drawings, nor do
we claim the sheet-flue under the reservoir in the shell D, as both
of these arrangements are the subject-matter of a sepayate application for a patent, now pending."
The claims of No. 142,934 are 3 in number, as follows, and
the infringement of all of them is admitted:
"1. The detachable base-pan or flue-shell D, attached to the
body at a point near the centre of the back plate of the stove, by
means of hooks a a cast on the base-pan, and pins b b on the
stove-body, substantially for the purposes herein set forth. 2.
The portable reservoir F, with flue E in the rear side, in combination with the portable base-pan or flue-shell D, substantially as
and for the purposes herein set forth. 3. The combination, with
a three-flue stove, having damper H arranged as described, of the
portable base-pan or flue-shell D and warming-closet G, all substantially as and for the purposes herein set forth."
The Tiffany patent of 1869 shows a low-down reservoir at
the rear of a three-flue stove, and a warming closet below the
reservoir. The gases pass from the flue-space into a base-pan or
chamber which is immediately below the reservoir, and forms
the top of the warming-closet. The flue by which the gases
escape from the base-pan is in the rear of the reservoir and is
removable with it. The Tiffany stove, having three flues, must
have a damper to open and close the middle flue. The specification of the Tiffany patent states that the reservoir and the
warming-closet are capable of being attached to and detached
from the stove, so that the stove is complete without them and
they are complete without being attached; and it also states
that they may be attached to the stove by lugs or hooks, either
cast in the back of the stove, with a corresponding eye in-the
side of the case surrounding the reservoir, or in the top and
vor. cx-O

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

side of the reservoir, or the hook and the eye may be reversed.
A detachable base-pan existed before, and hearths and ash-pans
existed attached by lugs and hooks in the same way as the defendant's base-pan. A portable reservoir was old, with an
escape-pipe or flue forming a part of the reservoir. A damper
for the middle flue was old. A warming-closet below a basepan and that below a reservoir were old. In view of the state
of the art there was no invention, in claim 1 of the patent, in
using to attach the base-pan an old mode used in attaching
other projecting parts of the stove. Claim 2 is merely for an
aggregation of parts, and not for a patentable combination,
there being no patentable relation between a portable reservoir
with a flue in its rear side and the existence or portability of
a base-pan beneath it. In claim 3 there is merely an aggregation of parts, there being no patentable relation between a
damper for the middle flue of a three-flue stove, and the existence or portability of a base-pan or the existence of a warmingcloset.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, with costs in this
court to the Excelsior .Manufacturing Company on both
appeals, and the case is remnded to the Circuit Court with
direction to dismiss the bill, with costs.

UNITED STATES v. LAWTON .
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAf.
Submitted January 4th,

M854.-Decided January 21dt, 185.

Statutes-Tax-Sae.

Land subject to a direct tax was sold for its non-payment, and was bought In
for the United States for the sum of $1,100, under section 7 of the act of
June 7th, 1862, c. 98, as amended by the act of February 6th, 1863, c. 21,

12 Stat. 640, the tax, penalty, interest and costs being $170.50. No money
was paid. The United States took possession of the land, and leased it,
and afterwards sold all but 50 acres for $180, under the act of June 8th,
1872, c. 337, 17 Stat. 880. The land was not redeemed. Application by
its owner was made to the Secretary of the Treasury for the $929.50 surplus,

