OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

of the legal representatives of the decedent. As to this, it is
sufficient to say that what was called by Chief Justice Marshall,
in Gordon v. Ogden, 3 Pet. 33, "the silent practice of the
court" has always been the other way. It is every-day practice to revive such suits, and the books are full of cases in which
this has been silently done, no one apparently entertaining a
doubt of its propriety.
The decree in eacl of the cases is afflrned.
Mm. JUST=E BrcnonOU did not sit in these cases and took

no part in their decision.

WABASH, ST. LOUIS & PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. KNOX.
In ERROR TO THE o

RUIT COURT OF THE UNI

STATES FOP T.E

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLIMOIS.
Submitted January 14th, 1884.-Decided January 2th, 1834.

When the amount in dispute in this court is less than $5,00D the court cannot

take jurisdiction.

Motion to dismiss.
-. r. Y WVarner for the motion and for defendant in error.
Nt

HmF JusTioE WArr= delivered the opinion of the court.

The judgment in this case was for $5,237.15, but the record
shows in many ways that of this amount $727.42 was admitted
to be due. A formal tender of that sum was made on the 26th
of February, 1883, and the money deposited in court for Knox,
the plaintiff, where it remained until the 14th of March, nine
days after the judgment was rendered, when it was withdrawn
by the railroad company, without prejudice, on the order of
the court and with the consent and agreement of Knox. The
bill of exceptions also shows an admitted liability of the company for the amount of the tender. The case is, therefore, in
all material respects, like that of Tintsznw v. NalionaZ Ban77
100 U. S. 6, where the writ was dismissed, although the judg-

JEFFRIES v. MUT. LIFE INS. CO. OF NEW YORK. 305
Syllabus.

ment was for $8,233.59, because, by an agreeed statement of
facts in the record, it appeared that the defendant admitted
he owed $5,099.59 of the amount recovered. To the same
effect is dennes8 v. Citizens' _NationaZ Bank of Rome, ante, 52.
The amount in dispute here is no more than was in dispute
below, and that was less than $5,000.

The motion to dis

isig ranted.

JEFFRIES, Administrator, v. MUTUAL LIFE INSURAOCE COffPMANY OF NEW YORK
IN

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Argued and submitted January 16th, 1884.-Decided February 4tb, 1884.

Error-Contract-Coartnership.

K. died in Missouri, in 1871, having a policy of insurance on his life. J. was.
appointed there his administrator. LJ. and T., copartners as attorneys at
law, brought a suit on the policy, in which, after a long litigation, there
was a judgment for the plaintiff for $13,495, in 1877, in a Circuit Court of
the United States. J. had died in 1873, and C. had been appointed administrator in his place, and substituted as plaintiff. The case was brought
into this court, by the defendant, by a writ of error. Before it was heard
here L. compromised the judgment with the defendant, in 1879, receiving
in full $9,401.42, and entered satisfaction of the judgment on the record.
C. then moved the Circuit Court to vacate the satisfaction, on the grounds
that L. had no authority to enter it, and had been notified by C., after the
compromise had been made and before the satisfaction had been entered,
that he would not ratify the compromise, and that the compromise was
unlawful because not authorized by the Probate Court. The Circuit Court
heard the motion on affidavits, and found as a fact, that 3. while administrator, entered into a contract with L. and T., whereby they agreed to
prosecute the claim for a portion of the proceeds, with full power to compromise it as they should please, and that the claim was a doubtful one,
and held that the compromise was rightly made, and that the plaintiff was
bound by the contract of J. and denied the motion. On a writ of error by
the plaintiff: Held, 1. This edurt cannot review such finding of fact. there
being evidence on both sides, and the error, if any, not being an error of
law; 2. The contract made was not champertous or unlawful, andJ. had
authority to make it; 8. The contract having given to L. and T. a power
vor. cx-20

