OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

held within the State in which the judgment was rendered.
Ilollingswoeth v. Barbour,4 Pet. 466, 475; Boswell v. Oti, 9
How. 336; Bisclof v. Wethered, 9 Wall. 812; Knowes v. Gaslight Company, 19 Wall. 58; Pennoyer v. lNef, 95 'U. S. 714.
See also Scldbsby v. TFestenholtz, L. R. 6 Q. B. 155 ; The City
of -3feeca, 6 P. D. 106.

The Circuit Court having ruled and instructed the jury
otherwise, its judgment must be reversed, and the case remanded with directions to set aside the verdict, and to order a
-ew trial.

UNITED STATES, on the relation of Chandler, v. COUNTY
COMMISSIONERS OF DODGE COUNTY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
Submitted January 4th, 1884.-Decided January 21st, 1884.

Inkermal Improrements-tuniciZBonds-Nebraska-Statues--Ta.z
A wagon bridge across the Platte River is a work of internal improvement
within the meaning of the statute of Nebraska of February 15th, 1869; and
that statute makes it the duty of county commissioners to levy a tax on
the taxable property within a precinct in whose behalf bonds have been
issued under that statute to aid in constructing such a bridge, sufficient to
pay the annual interest on the bonds, and without regard to any limit imposed by, or voted in accordance with chapter 9 of the Revised Statutes

of 1866.

Petition for writ of mandamus; refused below, and brought
up by writ of error.
..Mr. William H . uger for plaintiff in error.
r. . T. N'ewton, 3Pf. Zewis A. Grof, and .MI'. C. S. Xontgomery for defendants in error.
E.

JUSTIoE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to reverse a judgment of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Nebraska, deny-

UNITED STATES v. DODGE COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

ing a peremptory writ of mandamus to command the county

commissioners of the county of Dodge, in the State of Nebraska, to levy a special tax upon the taxable property within
Fremont Precinct, a local subdivision of that county, to pay
and satisfy two judgments obtained by the petitioner against
the county, in that court, upon interest coupons attached to
bonds issued by the county commissioners in behalf of the
precinct on September 1st, 1871, under the statute of Nebraska

of February 15th, 1869, for the purpose of building a wagon
bridge across the Platte River in that precinct, and purchased
by the petitioner in good faith in the usual course of business, and without notice of any defects or infirmities; each of
which judgments provided that they should be paid by such a
levy.
To an alternative writ of mandamus, alleging the facts above
stated, the county commissioners filed an answer, alleging
that the bonds, which were signed and sealed by the county.
commissioners, were in this form:
" U-ITED STATES OF AmERICA, STATE OF NEBRASKA.

"It is hereby certified that Fremont Precinct, in the county of
Dodge, in the State of Nebraska, is indebted unto the bearer in
the sum of one thousand dollars, payable on or before twenty
years after date, with interest at the rate of ten per cent. per annum from date.' Interest payable annually on the presentation
of the proper coupons hereunto annexed. Principal payable at
the office of the county treasurer, in Fremont, Dodge County,
Nebraska ; interest payable at the Ocean National Bank, in the
City of New York.
"This bond is one of a series issued in pursuance of and in accordance with a vote of the electors of said Fremont Precinct
at a special election held on the eleventh day of November, A.D.
1870, at which time the following proposition was submitted:
"'Shall the county commissioners of Dodge County, Nebraska, issue their special bonds on Fremont Precinct, in said
county, to the amount not to exceed fifty thousand dollars, to be
expended and appropriated by the county commissioners, or as
much thereof as is necessary, in building a wagon bridge across
Platte River, in said precinct; said bonds to be made pay-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

able on or before twenty years after date, bearing interest at the
rate of ten per cent. per annum, payable annually?'
Which
proposition was duly elected, adopted, and accepted by a majority of the electors of said precinct voting in falor of the proposition.
"1And whereas the Smith Bridge Company of Toledo, Ohio,
have entered into a contract with said county commissioners to
furnish the necessary materials and to build and construct said
bridge referred to in the foregoing proposition:
"Therefore this bond, with others, is issued in pursuance thereof,
as well as under the provisions of an act of the legislature of the
State of Nebraska, approved February 15th, A. D. 1869, entitled
'An Act to enable counties, cities, and precincts to borrow money
on their bonds or to issue bonds, to aid in the construction oi completion of works of internal improvement in this State, and
to legalize bonds already issued for such purposes.'
"In witness whereof, we, the said county commissioners of
said Dodge County, have hereunto set our hands, this day of
- , A. D.
The answer further alleged that the proposition to vote the
bonds, submitted to and voted upon by the voters of the precinct, contained a provision that the tax levied in any one year
should not exceed one mill on a dollar of the valuation of the
taxable property within the precinct, and was entered on the
records of the county; and that a tax of one mill had since
been annually levied. A general demurrer to the answer was
overruled by the Circuit Court, and judgment entered accordingly ; and thereupon this writ of error was sued out.
The decision of this case depends upon the peculiar provisions
of the statutes of Nebraska, and an examination of those
statutes leaves us in no doubt how it should be decided.
In the Revised Statutes of 1866, the ninth chapter, concerning
county commissioners, contained the following provisions :
"1SECT. 19. The said commissioners shall have power to submit
to the people of the county, at any regular or special election, the
question whether the county will borrow money to aid in the construction of public buildings, the question whether the county will
aid or construct any road or bridge, or to submit to the people of

UNITED STATES v. DODGE COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

the county any question involving an extraordinary outlay of
money by the county ; and said commissioners may aid any enterprise designed for the benefit of the county as aforesaid, whenever
a majority of the people thereof shall be in favor of the proposition,
as provided in this section.
"SECT. 20. When county warrants are at a depreciated value,
the said commissioners may, in like manner, submit the question
whether a tax of a higher rate than that provided by law shall be
levied ; and in all cases when an additional tax is laid, in pursuance of a vote of the people of the county, for the special purpose of repaying borrowed money, or of constructing or ordaining
to construct any road or bridge, or for aiding in any enterprise
contemplated by the preceding section, such special tax shall be
paid in money and in no other manner.
"SECT. 21. The mode of submitting questions to the people,
contemplated by the last two sections shall be the following:
The whole question, including the sum to be raised, or the amount
of the tax desired to be levied, or the rate per annum, and the
whole regulation, including the time of its taking effect or having
operation, if it be of a nature to be set forth, and the penalty of
its violation, if there be one, is to be published at least four weeks
in some newspaper published in the county. If there is no such
newspaper published, the publication is to be made by being posted
up in at least one of the most public places in each election precinct in the county. And in all cases the notices shall name the
time when such question will be voted upon, and the form in which
the question shall be taken ; and a copy of the question submitted
shall be posted up at each place of voting during the day of election.
"SECT. 22. When the question submitted involves the borrowing
or expenditure of money, the proposition of the question must be
accompanied by a provision to lay a tax for the payment thereof,
in addition to the usual taxes under section sixteen of this chapter; and no vote adopting the question proposed shall be valid,
unless it likewise adopt the amount of tax to be levied to meet the
liability incurred.
"SECT. 23. The rate of tax to be levied in pursuance of the last
four sections of this chapter shall in no case exceed three mills on
the dollar of the county valuation in one year. When the object
is to borrow money tQ aid in the erection of public buildings, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

rate shall be such as to pay the debt in ten years ; when the object is to construct or aid in constructing any road or bridge, the
annual rate shall not exceed one mill on a dollar of the valuation ;
and any special tax or taxes levied in pursuance of this chapter,
becoming delinquent, shall draw the same rate of interest as
ordinary taxes levied in pursuance of the revenue laws of this
Territory."
But the statute of February 15th, 1869, as amended by a
statute of March 3d, 1870, and under which the bonds in question were issued, provides as follows:
"SECT. 1. Any county or city in the State of Nebraska is hereby authorized to issue bonds to aid in the construction of any
railroad, or other work of internal improvement, to an amount to
be determined by the county commissioners of such county or the
city council of such city, not exceeding ten per centum of the
assessed valuation of all taxable property in said county or city:
Provided,the county commissioners or city council shall first submit the question of the issuing of such bonds to a vote of the
legal voters of said county or city, in the manner provided by
chapter nine of the Revised Statutes of the State of Nebraska, for
submitting to the people of the county the question of borrowing
money.
"SECT. 2. The proposition of the question must be accompanied
by a provision to levy a tax annually for the payment of the interest on said bonds as it becomes due: Provided, that an additional amount shall be levied and collected to pay the principal of
said bonds, when it shall become due; and Providedfurther,that
no tax shall be levied or collected to pay any of the principal of.
said bonds until the year 1880.
"S11cT. 3. The proposition shall state the rate of interest such
bonds shall draw, and when the principal and interest shall be
made payable."
"SECT. 5. It shall be the duty of the proper officers of such
county or city to cause to be annually levied, collected, and paid
to the holders of such bonds a special tax on all taxable property
within said county or city, sufficient to pay the annual interest as
the same becomes due; and when the principal of said bonds becomes due, such officers shall in like manner collect an additional

UNITED STATES v. DODGE COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.
amount sufficient to pay the same as it becomes due;" with certain
restrictions as to the amount to be levied and collected in any one
year towards payment of the principal.
"SECT. 6. Any county or city, which shall have issued its
bonds in pursuance of this act, shall be estopped from pleading
want of consideration therefor; and the proper officers of such
county or city may be compelled, by mandamus or otherwise, to
levy the tax herein provided to pay the same.
" SECT. 7. Any precinct in any organized county of this State
shall have the privilege of voting to aid works of internal improvement, and be entitled to all the privileges conferred upon
counties and cities by the provisions of this act; and in such case
the precinct election shall be governed in the same manner as is
provided in this act, so far as the same is applicable, and the
county commissioners shall issue special bonds for such precinct,
and the tax to pay the same shall be levied upon the property
within the bounds of such precinct. Such precinct bonds shall be
the same as other bonds, but shall contain a statement showing
the special nature of such bonds."
Under either statute, the submission of the question to the
people must be accompanied by a provision to levy a tax. But
whereas the statute of 1866 provided that no vote adopting the
question proposed should be valid unless it likewise adopted the
amount of tax to be levied to meet the liability incurred, and
that when the object was to construct or aid in constructing any
road or bridge the annual rate should not exceed one mill on a
dollar on the valuation, the statute of 1869, as amended by
the statute of 1870, omits both these provisions, and peremptorily enacts that the proposition of the question shall be accompanied by a provision to levy. a tax annually, sufficient for
the payment of the interest as it becomes due; that it shall be
the duty of the proper municipal officers to cause to be annually
levied, collected, and paid to the holders of the bonds a special
tax, sufficient so to pay the annual interest; and that they may
be compelled, by mandamus or otherwise, to levy such a tax.
The later statute, as to objects included in it, clearly repeals
to this extent the earlier statute, removes the limit imposed
upon the amount to be levied, and takes away the power of
VOL. cx-1l

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

the voters to limit that amount, and requires a tax to be levied
and collected sufficient to pay the whole interest for the year;
and it is equally clear that a bridge across the Platte River is
a work of internal improvement, for the benefit of the public,
and within the scope and the terms of the statute of 1869.
County Comnmissioniers v. Chandler, 96 U. S. 205; Fremont
Building Association v. 9 -rwin, 6 Neb. 48.
The petitioner is therefore entitled to a peremptory writ of
mandamus to the county commissioners to levy a tax on the
taxable property of Fremont Precinct, sufficient to pay the
amount of the judgments recovered in the Circuit Court for
the interest due on the bonds held by him. Davenport v.
Dodge County, 105 U. S. 237.
Judgment reversed.

BISSELL v. SPRWTG VALLEY TOWNESHIP.
IN

ERRtOR TO

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
Submitted January d 1884.-Decided January 21st, 1884.

EstoeZ--ansas-unicilpa Bonds-Safutes.
1. A statute of the State of Kansas directed county commissioners of a county
(when the electors of a township in the county should have determined,
in the manner provided in the act, to issue bonds in payment. of a sub-

scription to railway stock), to order the county clerk to make the subscription, and to cause the bonds to be issued in the name of the township, signed by the chairman of the beard, and attested by the clerk
under the seal of the county: Held, That the signature of the clerk was
essential to the valid execution of the bonds, even though he bad no discretion to withhold it.
2. When bonds have been issued by a township in payment of a subscription
to railway stock, under a statute which makes the signature of a particular officer essential, without the signature of that officer they are not
the bends of the township ; and the municipality is not estopped from
disputing their validity by reason of recitals in the bond, setting forth
the provisions of the statute and a compliance with them.
8. A statute of Kansas authorized the auditor of a State to receive from the
holder of bonds issued by a township in payment of a subscription to

