OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Without considering other grounds urged in opposition to
the statute and in support of the judgment below, we are of
opinion that the statute of Virginia, although avowedly
enacted to protect its people against the sale of unwholesome
meats, has no real or substantial relation to such an object.
but, by its necessary operation, is a regulation of commerce, beyond the power of the State to establish.

Judgment ajz:rmed.

UJNITED STATES v. CENTRAL PACIFIO RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM

THE COURT

OF CLAIMS.

No. 758. Argued November 21, 22,1890.-Decided January 26, 1891.

Since the passage of the act of May 7, 1878, 20 Stat. 58, c. 96, ยง 1, the sums
expended by the Central Pacific Railroad for betterments and improve:
ments on its road, its buildings and equipments, whereby the capital of
the Company invested in its works is increased in permanent value,
are not to be regarded as part of its current expenses to be deducted from
its gross receipts in reaching and determining the amount of the net
earnings upon which a percentage is to be paid to the United States.
The case of Union Pacific Railroad Co. v. United States, 99 U. S. 402, distinguished from this case.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Xr. Attorney General for the United States.
.Ar. JosepA E. .XoDonald and Mr. Josep'A -.
for the Central Pacific Railway Company.
MR. JusTicE BRADLEY

.oCammon

delivered the opinion of the court.

This -is an appeal from the-Oourt of Claims. The claimant,
the Central Pacific Railroad Company, filed a petition October
31, 1887, to recover from the United States.the sum of $804,
994.31,, all.ged to be due for dervices rendered to the War,

UNITED STATES v. CENTRAL PACIFIC R'D CO.

85

Opinion of the Court.

Post Office, and other departments, and the sum of $321,157.72, alleged to have been exacted by the Treasury Department, and paid by the claimant, in excess of the amount actually due from the claimant to the government for the 25 per.
cent net earnings required to be paid by the fourth section of
the act known as the Thurman act, passed May 7, 1878. The
Court of Claims rendered a decree in favor of the claimant for
the first of the above-mentioned sums, and for a portion of the
second claim, amounting to $198,422,83, the other part of the
sum demanded having been barred by the statute of limitations. Both parties* appealed from the decree, but the
claimants have dismissed their appeal and the government
has consented that the decree shall be affirmed as to the said
sum of $804,094.31 due to the claimants for services rendered
to the departments, so that the only matter of controversy
remaining on the record is the decree for the said sum of
$198,422.83 the alleged amount of over-payments exacted for
25 per cent of net earnings during the years 1881, 1882, 1883
and 1884. The ground of appeal on the part of the government
as to this sum is that in arriving at the net earnings of the railroad company for the years before mentioned, the company
claimed and the court allowed certain expenses which, as contended by the government, were not for current expenses and
repairs, but were for betterments and improvements on the
road, its buildings and equipments, whereby the capital of
the company invested in its works was increased in permanent
value. These expenses, the government contends, ought not
to have been allowed under the provisions of the Thurman
act. They are of the same class, as appears by a supplemental
return made by the Court of Claims, which were allowed by
this court as fairly chargeable under the head of expenses under the act of 1862, in the case of Union Pac*ic Railroad Co.
v. United States, 99 IT. S. 402. But the accounts in question
in that case arose before the Thurman act was passed, nd the
phraselogy of this act was probably adopted in view of the
construction of the act of 1862 claimed by the railroad companies in that case. As the law stood prior to 1878, under
which 5 per cent of the net earnings of the companies was to

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

be paid into the Treasury towards the liquidation of the bonds
loaned to them by the government, we held that in arriving
at such net earnings it was admissible for the companies to
charge, as they had done, a reasonable amount for betterments
and improvements, rendered necessary by the gradual increase
of traffic, the better discharge of business, and the public accommodation; not including, however, the cost of- any important
improvement, such as additional track, or any other matter
involving a large outlay of money. This view was based upon
the practice and usage of conservative and well managed railroad companies, which tended to -the suppression of extravagant dividends that might be the result of a showing of large
net earnings. But Congress, in the Thurman act, ex industria
used language with regard to the character of the expenses to,
be allowed in ascertaining the amount of net earnings, which
seems to preclude any charges for improvements or betterments, or increase of permanent value of the works in any
manner whatever. The language referred to is as follows:
" That the net earnings mentioned in said act of eighteen hundred and sixty-two, of said railroad companies respectively,
shall be ascertained by deducting from the gross amount of
their earnings respectively the necessary expenses actually
paid within the year in operating the same and keeping the
same in a state of repair, and also the sum paid by them respectively within the year in discharge of interest on their first
mortgage bond, whose lien has priority over the lien of the
United States, and excluding from consideration all sums
owing or paid by said companies respectively for interest upon
any other portion of their indebtedness; and the foregoing
provision shall be deemed and taken as an a~iendment of said
act of eighteen hundred and sixty-four, as well as of said act
of eighteen hundred and sixty-two." 20 Stat. c. 96, ยง 1, p. 58.
Considering the time,\ and the circumstances under which
this act was passed, and tle express declaration that the clause
'in question was to be deerhed and taken as an amendment of
the acts, of 1861 and 186 , we think its meaning cannot b&
mistaken as intending to exclude froma the category of ex
penses, t be taken from gross receipts in order to ascertain the

UNITED STATES v. KINGSLEY.
Statement of the Case.

"net earnings," all such expenditures. as have the effect of
permanently improving the value of the company's property
and works; and, taken prospectively, it is to be regarded as
valid under the decision in The Sinking -Fund0ae, 99 U. S.
7'00. As the expenses in question are of the category referred
to, and the allowance of them by the Court of Claims reduced
the 25 per cent of net earnings by the said amount of $198,422.83, it follows that the judgment, as to that sum, must be
reversed, and be affirmed as to the said sum of $804,094.31;
and the cause
Remanded with in8truction8 to enter judgment in conformity with tWhie oznwin.

UNITED STATES v. KINGSLEY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLA]XS.

1Wo.
778. Argued January 16, 1891

Decided Jafhuary 26,1891.

A private In the Marine Corps of the United States, discharged from the
service as a person of bad character and unfit for service by order of
the Secretary of the Navy through the Commandant of the Corps,
without court martial or other competent military proceeding, forfeits
thereby his retained pay under the provisions of Rev. Stat. ยง 1281; but
he may claim and recover his transportation and subsistence from the
place of his discharge to -the place of his enlistment, enrollment, or
original muster into the service, under the provisions contained In Rev.
Stat. ยง 1290.

Tis was an appeal by the United States from a judgment
of the Court of Claims, 24: C. Cl. 219, awarding to the petitioner, Joseph F. Kingsley, $73.30 for "retained pay," and for
transportation and subsistence from the place of his discharge
to that of his enlistment. The finding of the Court of Claims
was as follows:
"Finding,offact.
"This ase having been heard before the Court of Claims,
the court, upon the evidence, finds the facts to be as follows;

