MiERRILL v. MONTICELLO.
Statement of the Case.

MERRILL v. MONTICELLO.
]ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 125.

STATES FOR THE

Argued December 19, 22, 1890.-Decided 4farch 2,1891.

The implied power of a municipal corporation to borrow money to enable
it to execute the powers expressly conferred upon it by law, if it exists
at all, does not authorize it to create and issue negotiable securities, to
be sold in the market and to be taken by a purchaser freed from equities
that might be set up by the maker.
To borrow money, and to give a bond or obligation therefor which may 'circulate in the market as a negotiable security freed from any equities
that may be set up by the maker of it, are essentially different transactions in their nature and legal effect.
A municipal corporation in Indiana issued its negotiable bonds having ten
years to run, to the amount of $20.000, the proceeds to be used to aid in
the construction of a school house, and sold them in open market. When
they matured, a new issue of like bonds to the amount of $21,000 was
made, which were sold in open market, and a part of the proceeds converted by a trustee of the corporation to his own use. R eld, that the
new issue was void for want of authority, and that the municipality was
not est6pped from setting up that defence.

Tins was an action at law by Abner L. Merrill, a citizen of
Massachusetts, against the town of Monticello, in the State of
Indiana, upon certain bonds and coupons issued by the town
and purchased by the plaintiff in open market.
The bonds and coupons wpre in form lile the following:
" UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

$100.
State of Indiana.
"No. 1.
"Funding Bond of the Town of Monticello.
"Ten years after date, the town of Monticello, in the county
of White, State of Indiana, promises to pay to the bearer, at
the Importers' and Traders' National Bank, New York, one
hundred dollars in gold, with interest thereon at the rate of
seven per cent per annum, payable annually, in gold, at the
same place, upon presentation of the proper coupon hereto.
VOL. cxxxvm-43

OCTOBER TERMT, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

-

attached, without any relief whatever from the valuation or
appraisement laws of the State of Indiana. The principal of
this bond shall be due and payable, at the option of the holder,
on the non-payment, after due presentation, of any of said
coupons, for ninety days after the maturity thereof. This
bond is one of a series of $21,000, authorized by the said town
by an ordinance passed by the board of trustees thereof, on
the thirteenth day of May, 1878, for the purpose of funding
the indebtedness of the said town.
"In witness whereof, the board of trustees of the town of
Monticello have caused this bond and the coupons thereof to
be signed by their president and clerk, and the seal of the
town to be affixed hereto, at the said town of Monticello, this
twentieth day of May, 1878.
"Attest: F. BosmnGER, Clerk. R. W. CnlusTr, President.
[Copy of coupon.]
"The town of Monticello, Indiana, will pay the bearer, in
gold coin, seven dollars, without relief from valuation or appraisement laws of the State of Indiana, at the Importers' and
Traders' National Bank, New York, on the twentieth day of
May, 1880, being one year's interest on bond No. 1.
"Attest: F. BosnmGER, Clerk. I. W. CHInsTy, President."
The coupons numbered 2, attached to each bond, having
been presented for payment when due, at the place specified
therein, and payment having been refused, the plaintiff, as the
holder of 143 of the bonds with coupons attached, elected to
declare the principal sum due, in accordance with the terms of
the bonds, and, accordingly, on the 1st of July, 1881, brought
this action to recover that amount.
A demurrer to the defendant's answer having been sustained, it filed an amended answer, in substance as follows:
At the time the bonds in suit were issued the defendant was,
and still.is, a municipal corporation or town; duly organized
under the laws of Indiana, in pursuance of a statute of that
State passed June 11, 1852. On the 24th of June, 1869, a
petition was presented to the board of trustees of the town by

MERRILL v. MONTICELLO.
Statement of the Case.

the school trustees, praying for the issue of the bonds of the
town to aid in building a school house; and on the same day
the trustees of the town passed an ordinance directing that
there be issued to the school trustees $20,000 worth of coupon
bonds, of the denomination of $100 each, bearing 10 per cent
interest, payable annually, which bonds, running ten years,
were issued by the town May 1, 1869, and were afterwards
sold in open market. The principal .of them had not been
paid, and they constituted the only indebtedness of the town,
when, on the 11th of May, 1878, the following petition, signed
by the owners of taxable property in the town, was presented
to the town trustees:
"We, the undersigned, citizens of the town of Monticello,
Indiana, and owners of the taxable property therein, respectfully petition that you, as trustees of said town, contract a
loan for said town, for the purpose of paying the indebtedness
thereof, in the sum of twenty-one thousand dollars."
On the same day the board of town trustees passed and entered of record the following ordinance:
"Be it ordained by the board of trustees of .the town of
Monticello, Indiana, That said town issue bonds in the sum of
twenty-one thousand dollars, in denominations of one hundred
dollars, bearing interest at the rate of seven per centum per
annum, payable in gold, to provide the means with which to
pay the indebtedness of said town. And be it further ordained,
That when said bolids are issued they be placed in the hands
of J. C. Wilson, a member of the board of trustees, for negotiation and sale. And be it further ordained, That said bonds
shall not be sold at a price less than ninety-four cetits on the
dollar."
In pursuance of this ordinance, on the 20th of May, 1878,
there were issued coupon bonds of the town to the amount of
$21,000, bearing -7per cent. interest, payable annually, and
due in ten years, being the same'bonds a large amount of
which are involved in this action. After the bonds were issued,
they were delivered to said J. C. Wilson, who sold them and
converted the proceeds thereof to his own use, the town not
receiving any benefit therefrom.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

The answer further alleged that on the 20th of May, 1878,
when these bonds were issued, there was no law of the State
of Indiana which authorized the trustees of an incorporated
town in that State to issue its bonds for the purpose of funding its indebtedness, or to issue its bonds for negotiation and
sale, for the purpose of paying its indebtedness or of raising
money to pay its indebtedness; and that, at the date last
above mentioned, the defendant was an incorporated town,
organized under the general law of the State, for the incorporation of towns having a population of twelve hundred inhabitants.
A general demurrer to the amended answer, as not stating
facts sufficient to constitute a good defence to the complaint,
was overruled by Judge Gresham, in December, 1882, (14 Fed.
iRep. 628;) and the plaintiff then filed a reply, that part of it
material to this consideration being, in substance, as follows:
After admitting the main facts stated in the answer respecting
the issue and sale of the bonds of 1869, and also as to the
issue of the bonds of 1878, here in suit, it was alleged that the
bonds in suit were legal, having been authorized by an act of
the state legislature, passed March 3, 1873; that the town
was without means to pay its indebtedness except by the issue
of its bonds, the tax levies permitted by law being insufficient
for that purpose; that J. C. Wilson, as the agent of the town,
under and by virtue of the authority conferred upon him by
the aforesaid ordinance, negotiated the bonds in open market,
and received from their sale the sum of $19,680.17, a part of
which sum, to wit, $6618.10, he deposited in a bank in that
town, and absconded with the remainder; that the town, by,
suit instituted for that purpose, recovered the aforesaid amount
which had been deposited in the bank, and appropriated it to
its own use; and that the plaintiff, in July, 1878, purchased
143 of the bonds (those in suit) in open market in Boston, at
par for cash, without any notice or knowledge on his-part that
Wilson had not accounted to the town for the money received.
by him from the sale of the bonds.
A demurrer to the reply was overruled by Judge Woods,
holding the Circuit Court, 22 Fed. Rep. 589. The case was

MERRILL v. MONTICELLO.
Statement of the Case.

then tried before Judges Gresham and Woods, upon the merits,
under a written stipulation, waiving a jury, judgment being
given in favor of the defendant.
Plaintiff afterwards made a motion for a new trial, which
was overruled by Judge Woods at the November term of the
court, 1886. At the same time plaintiff again made a motion
for a new trial, setting, up, in substance, the following: That
he had prepared a bill of exceptions setting forth all the evidence in the case, all of which, it was alleged, tended to :upport the .declaration and the reply; that he was desirous of
bringing the case to this court by writ of error, but, under the
rules and practice here and the statutes of the United States,
he would not be able to present the questions involved to this
court, without a special finding of facts upon the evidence adduced at the trial; that a manifest hardship and injustice had
been done him in the case, which occurred in the manner following: The judge who heard the case on demurrer to the answer
held the answer sufficient, while another judge of the court, who
heard the case on demurrer to the reply, pronounced the reply
sufficient, and at the final hearing plaintiff, relying upon the
evidence which supported and proved his reply, did not require
or ask a special finding of facts, supposing, of course, that his
reply having been proved, there would be a certificate of division in opinion between the judges who tried the cause, or
that, if not so, he would have saved to him by the record the
questions of law iii some other proper manner; that the entry
of the judgment took him wholly by surprise, and he had not
saved the legal questions as he should have, done, by requesting
beforehand a special finding of facts, because having had his
replication sustained, he had no doubt of the final judgment of
the court being favorable to him; and that he was fearful he
would be remediless to present to this court the questions involved in the case, unless the judgment should be set aside and
a special finding of facts made by the court.
This motion was sustained by Judge Woods, over the objection of the defendant, and a new trial was granted. The case
was again tried by 'Judge Woods, without a jury, who, at
plaintiff's request, made and filed the following finding of

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

facts, and entered judgment thereon in favor of the .defendant:
"1st. At the time hereinafter mentioned the defendant was
a municipal corporation organized and existing under and by
virtue of the laws of the State of Indiana, and situate in the
county of White, in the said State.
"2d. That upon the 24th day of January, 1869, a petition
was presented to the board of trustees of said town by the
sclool trustees thereof praying for the issue of the bonds of
said, town to aid in the building of a school house in said
town, which said petition was granted, and in pursuance
thereof the trustees of said town did pass and adopt an ordinance directing that there should be made and issued to the
said school trustees of said town twenty thousand dollars of
coupon bonds of said town of the denomination of one hundred dollars each, with interest at the rate of ten per cent per
annum, payable annually; and afterwards, to wit, on the 1st
day of May, 1869, the said town executed the said bonds under said ordinance to the amount of $20,000, maturing in ten
years after the date thereof, which bonds were sold and delivered to certain persons, who then and there became the purchasers thereof, and which bonds at the times hereinafter mentioned were outstanding, unpaid and valid obligations of the
said town.
"3d. On the 11th day of May, 1878, a petition was presented to the board of trustees of the defendant, signed by
citizens, owners of taxable property in said town, praying for
the issue of bonds of said town, to the amount of $21,000,
which petition (omitting the names of the signers thereto) is
in the words following, to wit:
[Then follows the petition as set out in the answer, and
heretofore quoted.]
"4th. That upon the 20th day of May, 1878, in pursuance
of the said petition and ordinance, the said defendant town
made and executed its 210 coupon bonds, payable to bearer,
of the denomination of $100 each, bearing interest at the rate
of seven per centum per annum, which bonds and coupons are
in the "'n",'.- nnl figm'es following, to wit:

MERRILL v. MONTICELLO.
Statement of the Case.

[Then follows a copy of a bond and a coupon heretofore
set out in full.]
"5th. That the said bonds were put in the hands of the
said J.C. Wilson, in pursuance of said ordinance, for sale, and
that $14,300 of the said bonds, being the same as those now
in suit, were sold to Claypoole and Stoddard, of Indianapolis,
Indiana, for which the said firm of Olaypool and Stoddard
paid to the said Wilson the sum of $12,918.40, which said
last-named sum was paid to said Wilson in the following manner: On or about April 14, 1879, said Claypool and Stoddard,
by the direction of said Wilson, paid a draft drawn by G. A.
Ivers, of Chicago, for $6000; on the same day said Olaypool
and Stoddard paid said Wilson, by their check on the First
National Bank of Indianapolis, the further sum of $5000;
that on the 13th day of May, 1879, the said Claypool and
Stoddard paid to said Wilson, by their check on the First
National Bank of Indianapolis, the further sum of $1840.30,
and within a few days after the last-named date said Claypool
and Stoddard, for the balance of the said sum of $12,918.40,
paid to him the sum of $78.17.
"6th. That the board of trustees of said town required and
exacted from their said agent, J. C. Wilson, a bond, with
sureties, to secure-the money which he might realize from the
sale of-said bonds.
"7th. That the said Wilson, after the sale of said bonds,
failed to turn over the proceeds thereof to the treasurer of the
said town and fled the country.
"8th. That at the time the said Wilson fled the country he
had a large sum of money on deposit in the First'National
Bank of Monticello, Indiana, to his credit as 'trustee'; that
suit was instituted by the defendant t6wn against said bank
to recover the same, upon the ground that such money was
the proceeds of the sale- of said bonds so made by "the said
Wilson; that judgment was rendered in favor of said town
and against said bank for the sum of $6988.43; that thereupon the receiver of the said bank appealed to the Supreme
Court of Indiana, and thereupon said judgment was affirmed
by said Supreme Court -

Bundy, Reeeae,..c&c. v. l'own (f

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Counsel for Parties.

HLnticello, 84 Indiana, 119 - and said town recovered the sum
of $6988.43.
"9th. That the said town instituted a proceeding upon the
bond so given by the said Wilson to the said town to secure
the money which he might realize from the sale of said bonds,.
and in a court of competent jurisdiction recovered judgment
against the sureties and the said Wilson on the said bond for
'"he full amount of the proceeds arising from the sale of said
bonds, and from which judgment an appeal was taken to the
Supreme Court of Indiana, and reported in 85 Indiana Reports,
at page 10, and which said judgment was reversed and remanded by said Supreme Court for another trial, and afterwards the said suit was dismissed by the said town, and
that the said town has received nothing on account of said
bond.
n10t. That at the time of the issuing of the bonds in suit
there was in the town treasury $3047.85, ,aud no more,. received under the taxing act of the legislature of Indiana, under
which the bonds were issued, as a special fund for the payment of the $20,000 ten per cent bonds then outstanding, and
that under the laws of the State of Indiana a sum sufficient to
.pay said bonds could-not have been raised before maturity of
the same on the amount of taxable property in said town.
"1lth. That the plaintiff is -a resident of iNewton, in the
State of Massachusetts, and that he bought. the bonds in suit
in open market, in the city of Boston, as an investment, and
paid therefor a valuable consideration, without any notice of
any irregularity as to their issue or any claim to that effect.
"And the court further finds that the principal of the bonds
sued on is wholly unpaid, and that the interest upon the same
accrued is wholly unpaid from the 20th day of May, 1880.
"And the court further finds, as a conclusion of law upon
the foregoing facts, for the defendant."
.Mr.Addison

. Hai'risfor plaintiff in error.

- .Mr.
David Titrpie and .fr.
inerror.

Wiian E. UN for defendant

MERRILL v. MONTICELLO.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTiCE. L mAn, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The decisive question presented by the record in this case is,
did the town of Monticello have authority, under, the laws of
Indiana, to issue for sale in open market negotialle securities
in the forms of the bonds and coupons on which recovery is
here sought .. Ohancellor Kent, in his Commentaries, vol. 2,
298, 299, referring to the strictness with which corporate
powers are construed, irrespective of the distinction between
public and private corporations, uses the following language:
"The modern doctrine is, to consider corporations as having
such powers as are specifically granted by the act of incorporation, or as are necessary for the purpose of carrying into effect
the powers expressly granted, and as not having any other.
The Supreme Court of the United Stdates declared this ob:-ious
doctrine, and it hasbeen repeated in the decisions of the state
-courts.

.

.

.

As corporations are the mere creatures of

law, established for special purposes, and derive all their
powers from the acts .creating them, it is perfectly just and
proper that they should be obliged strictly to show their authority for the business they assume, and be confined, in:
their operations, to the mode and manner and subject matter
prescribed."
Judge Dillon, in his work on Municipal Corporations,- ยง 89,
says: "It is a general and undisputed proposition of law that
-amunicipal corporation possesses and can exercise the following powers and no others: First, those granted in express
-words; secouid, those necessarily or fairly implied in or incident to the powers expressly granted; third, those essential to
the deolared objects and purposes of the corporation -not
simply convenient, but indispensable. Any fair, reasonable
doubt concerning the existence of power is resolved by the
courts against the corporation, and the power is denied."
In Hopper v. Covington, 118 U. S. 148, 151, this court, in
passing upon the power of incorporated towns in Indiana,
under laws which we will have to consider and pass upon in
this case, said, Mr. Justice Gray delivering the opinion: "Whn

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the law confers no authority to issue the bonds in question,
the mere fact of their issue cannot bind the town to pay them,
even to a purchaser before maturity and for value. Mar8h v.
Fulton County, 10 Wall. 676; East Oakland v. 8kinner, 94
U. S. .255; Buchanan v. -Litch/eld, 102 U. S. 278; .Dixon
County v. Field, 111 U- S. 83 ; Hayes v. Holly Spring8, 114
U. S. 120; Davie8 County v. Dickinon, 117 U. S. 657."
In Gause v. Clarkaville, 5 Dillon, 165, the court, in an able
discussion of the inherent and incidental authority of municipal corporations, holds, that whether a municipal corporation
possesses the power to borrow money, and to issue negotiable
securities therefor, depends upon a true construction of its.
charter and the legislation of the State applicable to it.
In order to determine the question before us, recourse must
be had to the statutory enactments, applicable to the subject,
that were in force at the time the bonds in this suit were
issued, in May, 1878.' These enactments are contained in sections 3333, 332, 3344, 3345, 488 and 4489 of the Revised
Statutes of Indiana of 1881. See 3333 is a section of the act
of 1852 for the incorporation of towns in that State, and contains the usual grant of municipal powers. See. 3342, which
was also section 27 of the same act of 1852, provides as follows:
"cNo incorporated town under this act shall have power to
borrow money or incur any debt or liability, unless the citizenowners of five-eighths of the taxable property of such town,
as evidenced by the assessment roll of the preceding year,
petition the board of trustees to contract such debt or loan.
And such petition shall have attached thereto an affidavit
verifying the genuineness of the signatures to the same. And
for any debt created thereby, the trustees shall add to the tax
duplicate of each year, successively, a levy sufficient t6 pay
the annual interest on such debt br loan, with an addition of
not less than five cents on the hundred dollars, to create a
sinking fund for the liquidation of the principal thereof."
The other sections contain the provisions of certain statutes
passed in 1867, 1869 and 1873. It is only necessary to quote
here sections 4488 and 4489, as they embody the provision of
the act of 1873, which is itself the statute of 1869 rewritten

MERRILL v. MONTICELLO.
Opinion of the Court.

in order to extend to other purposes not material to this inquiry.
"SEC. 4488. Any city or incorporated town in this State
which shall, by the action of its school trustees, have purchased any ground and building or buildings; or may hereafter purchase any ground and building or buildibgs; or has
commenced, or, may hereafter commence, the erection of any
building or buildings for school purposes; or which shall have,
by its school trustees, contracted any debts for the erection of
such building or buildings, or the purchase of such ground
and building or buildings; or such trustees shall not have the
necessary means with which to complete such building or
buildings,or to pay for the purchase of such ground and
buildingor-buildings, or pay such debt, -may, on the filing,
by the school trustees of said city or town, of a report, under
oath, with the common council, of such city, or the board
of trustees of such town, showing the estimated or actual cost
of any such ground and building or buildings, or the amount
required to complete such building or buildings, or purchase
such ground'-and building or buildings, or the amount of such
debt, on the passage of an ordinance authorizing the same by
the common council of said city, or the board of trustees of
such town, issue the bonds of such city or town to an amount
not exceeding, in the aggregate, fifty thousand dollars, in
denominations not less than one hundred nor more than one
-thousand dollars, and payable at any place that may be desig--nated in the bonds (the principal in not less than one year nor
more than twenty years after the date of such bonds, and the
interest annually or semi-annually, as may be therein provided)
to provide the means with which to complete such building or
buildings, or to pay for the purchase of such ground and
building or buildings, and to pay such debt. Such common
council or board of trustees may, from time to time, negotiate
and sell as many of such bonds as may be necessary for such
purpose, in any place and for the best price that can be obtained
therefor in cash: Provided, That such bonds shall not be sold
at a price less than ninety-four cents on the dollar.
"SEc. 4489. The proceeds of the sales of such bonds shall

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

be paid to the said school trustees, to enable them to erect or
complete such building or buildings and pay such debt. But
before payment to them, such school trustees shall file with
the county auditor a bond, payable to the State of Indiana, in
a sum not lessthan the full amount of the said money so t6
be paid to them, and with security to be approved by said
auditor, conditioned for the faithful and honest application of
such money to the purpose for which the same was provided;
and such trustees, and their surety or sureties, shall be liable
to suit on such bond -for any waste, misapplication or loss of
such money, in the same manner as now provided for waste
or loss of sihool revenue."
We have given these sections in full to show the entire legislation of the State in 1878, upon the subject of the power of
towns to berrow money, contract loans, incur debts and issue
bonds, so that it may be the more clearly determined whether
it anywhere expressly.confers upon incorporated towns of the
State the general power of issuing, for sale in open market,
negotiable securities, irn the form of bonds and coupons, which,
in the hands of bona jfde purchasers before maturity, will be
subject to no legal or equitable defences in favor of the maker.
In our opinion no such express power, is given by these sections, either for the purpose of raising money or funding a
previous indebtedness. Obviously, it cannot be found in sections 4488 and 4489, for they relate specifically and exclusively
to bonds for school buildings, school grounds and school debts,
and prescribe the mode by which bonds may be issued by
towns for those specified objects- a mode confessedly not
followed, or even attempted to be followed, in issuing the
bonds in this suit. We are confirmed in this conclusion by
the view taken i fl1-opper v. Covington, supra: "The averment, that the defendant is a municipal corporation under the
laws of Indiana, ' with full power and authority, pursuant to
the laws of said State, to execute negotiable commercial paper,'
if understood as alleging a general power to execute negotiable commercial paper, is inconsistent with the public laws of
the State, of which the courts of the United States take judicial notice."

MERRILL v. MONTICELLO.
Opinion of the Court.

The laws of Indiana referred to are those we axe now considering. The court also says: "The general statute of May
15, 1869, authorized towns to issue bonds for the purchase and
erection of lands and buildings for school purposes only."
But the bonds in suit were not issued for either -of the purposes named, but to retire and pay off the bonds of 1869.
The town had no power to pay off those bonds in this way,
viz. by the issue of new bonds, or it could perpetuate a debt
forever. Bonds once issued for a lawful purpose must be paid
by taxation. This is manifest from the provision which requires a tax to be levied each year "sufficient to pay the
annual interest, with an addition of vot es8 than five cents on
the hundred dollars to create a sinking fund for the liquidation of the principal." When bonds are once issued for a
lawful purpose, the town is functs oifio as to that matter.
To argue that the old bonds are a debt for, school purposes
which may be liquidated by new bonds is a refinement of
construction which the sound sense of the law rejects.
The plaintiff in error relies mainly upon the ground that
the authority in question arises, by necessary implication, from
the power to make certain expenditures; from the character
of the objects to be accomplished by those authorized expenditures; from the necessity of providing the means for. paying
a previous indebtedness lawfully incurred in such expenditures;
and from other powers expressly granted. The'line of his
counsel's argument, and that of the district judge to whose
opinion our attention has been especially called, is this: Whilst
section 3342 (the same as section 27 in the act of M[ay, 1852
is not in itself a substantive grant of power, it clearly evinces
the legislative intent and understanding that the right to borrow morley or otherwise incur any debt or liability might be
implied as incidental to the express power given in that or
any subsequent act containing not inconsistent provisions, and
includes a case like this, where the power is necessary to prevent a default of payment of a previous debt; which "it was
authorized to create. It is insisted farther that it is the settled
doctrine in Indiana that corporations. take, by implication, all
the reasonable modes of executing their express or substantive

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

powers which a natural person may adopt; and that, in the
absence of positive restrictions, a corporation has the -power
to borrow money as an incident to such power.
Section 119, Dillon on Munic. Corp. 3d ed., lays down the
Indiana law, on this subject, substantially as is contended for
by the plaintiff in error. That section is as follows: "In
Indiana, the doctrine is that corporations, along with the.
express and substantive powers conferred by their charters,
take by implication'all the reasonable modes of executing such
powers which a natural person may adopt. It is a power
incident to corporations, in the absence of positive restriction,
to borrow money as means of executing the power." A large
number of cases from the Supreme Court of Indiana are cited
in a note to support the doctrine of the text. We think the
proposition that, under the laws of Indiana, a town has an
implied authority to borrow money, or contract a loan, under
the conditions, and in the manner expressly prescribed, cannot
be controverted.
But this only brings us back to the question, Does the
implied power to borrow money or contract a loan carry with
it a farther implication of power to issue funding negotiable
bonds, for that amount, and sell them in open market, as
commercial paper? Let us see. Sec. 3342 is unquestionably
a limitation upon the power to borrow money. Its very language is that of mandatory negation. "No incorporated town
shall have the power to borrow money, or incur any debt,"
unless certain conditions precedent are complied with. The
conditions which the statute prescribes the statute means to
be performed. There can be no legal borrowing, unless the
statute is strictly followed. What does it prescribe ? That
there must be first a petition to the town trustees, which shall
be .'signed by the citizen-owners of at least five-eighths of the
taxable property of the town, whose signatures shall be verified by an affidavit to the petition. The prayer of the petition
is required to be that the board of trustees shall contract such
debt or loan. The board could not depart, in its action, from
this legally required prayer of the petition without transcend'ing its authority, and acting ulea vire8. But the board did

MERRILL v. MONTICELLO.
Opinion of the Court.

depart from the prayer, for it did not borrow money, nor contract a loan; but it ordained, in so many words, that the town
issue bonds for negotiation and sale at not less than ninetyfour cents on the dollar. We think the words of Chief Justice Marshall, in Head v. Providence Ins. Co., 2 Cranch, 127,
169, aptly characterize this transaction, and beat upon the
points which are the subject of this controversy. Speaking of
bodies corporate which have only a legal existence, he said:
"The act of incorporation is to them an enabling act; it gives
them all the power they possess; it enables them to contract,
and when it prescribes to them a mode of contracting, they
must observe that mode, or the instrument no more creates a
contract than if the body had never been incorporated." See
also ew York Firenie's-Ins. Co v. Ely, 5 Connecticut, 560;
3fJcCracken v. City of San Francisco, 16 California, 591, 619.
It is admitted that the power to borrow money, or to incur
indebtedness, carries with it the power to issue the usual evidences of indebtedness, by the corporation, to the lender or
other creditor. Such evidences may be in the form of promissory notes, warrants and, perhaps, most generally, in that of
a bond. But there is a marked legal difference between the
power to give a note to a lender for the amount of money
borrowed, or to a creditor for the amQunt due, and the power
to issue for sale, in open market, a; bond, as a commercial
security, with immunity, in the hands of.a bona f#de holder for
value, from equitable defences. The plaintiff in error contends
that there is no legal or substantial difference between the
two; that the issuing and disposal of bonds in market, though
in common parlance, and sometimes in legislative enactment,
called a sale, is not so in fact; and that the so-called purchaser who takes the bond and advances his money for it is
actually a lender, as much so as a person who takes a bond
payable to him in his own name.
We think the case of Police Jury v. Britton, 15 Wall. 566,
is directly and absolutely conclusive against the position of
the plaintiff in error, on this point. It was an action upon
coupons of certain bonds issued by the Police Jury of Tensas
Parish, Louisiana, the validity of which the defendant deri -a,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

upon the ground that they were issued without the authority
of any law of that State. It appeared that the Police Jury
had no express authority to issue the bonds in question; and,
if they had any authority of the kind, it must be implied from
the general powers of administration with which the said
Police Jury was invested. The question, therefore, directly
presented in that case was precisely the question directly presented in this case, viz. whether the trustees or representative
officers of a parish, county or other local jurisdiction, invested
with the usual powers of administration, in specific matters,
and the power of levying taxes to defray the necessary expenditures ofithe jurisdiction, have an implied authority to issue
negotiable securities, payable in future, of such a character as
to be unimpeachable in the hands of bona jfe holders, for the
purpose of raising ihoney or funding a previous indebtedness.
The opinion of the court, delivered by Mr. Justice Bradley,
clearly illustrated the fundamental distinction between issuing
bofids merely as evidences of a debt or loan and issuing bonds
for negotiation and sale generally, with respect to the powers
of a municipal corporation. It said: "That a municipal corporation which is expressly authorized to make expenditures
for certain purposes may, unless prohibited by law, make contracts for the accomplishment of the authorized purposes, and
thereby incur indebtedness, and issue proper vouchers therefor,
is not disputed. This is a necessary incident to the express
power granted. But such contracts, as long as they remain
executory, are always liable to any equitable considerations
that may exist or arise between the parties, and to any modification, abatement or recission in whole or in part that may
be just and proper in consequence of illegalities, or disregard
or betrayal of the public interests. Such contracts are very
different from those which are in controversy in this case.
The bonds and coupons on which a recovery is now sought
are commercial instruments, payable at a future day and
transferable from hand to hand.

.

.

.

The power to issue

such paper has been the means, in several cases which have
recently been brought to our notice, of imposing upon counties and other local jurisdictions burdens of a most fraudulent

MERRILL v. MONTICELLQ.

689"

Opinion of the Court.

and iniquitous character, and of which they would have been
summarily relieved had not the obligations been such as to
protect them from question in the hands of bon fte holders.
.

.

.It seems to us to be a power quite distinct from that

of incurring indebtedness for improvements actually authorized
and undertaken, the justness and validity of which may always.
be inquired into. It is a power which ought not to be implied
from the mere authority to make such improvements." pp.570, 571.
The plaintiff in error quotes from the opinion in that case,
to support his contention, the following: "We do not mean
to be understood that it requires, in all cases, express authority
for such bodies to issue negotiable paper. The power has frequently been implied from other express powers granted.
Thus, it has been held that the power to borrow money, implies the power to issue the ordinary securities for its repayment, whether in the form of notes or bonds payable in
future." We think the significance of these sentences, as
applicable to the facts of this case, can be clearly discerned
from the following concluding sentences of the paragraph:
"But in our judgment these implications should not be encouraged or extended beyond the fair inferences to be gathered
from the circumstances of each case. It would be an anomaly,
justly to be deprecated, for -all our limited territorial boards,
charged with certain objects of necessary local administration,
to become the fountains of commercial issues, capable of floating about in the financial whirlpools of our large cities."
The same doctrine is'pr-esented.-most forcibly in the case of
The fayor v. Bay, 19 Wall. 468. En lzibornm County v.
Brook8, 111 U. S. 400, 406, it was held, that the statutes of
Tennessee, which conferred upon counties in that State the
power to erect a court-house, jail and other necessary Anty
buildings, did not authorize the issue of commercial paper as
evidence of or security for a debt contracted for the construction of such a building. iReferring to the view of the court
below in that case, which held that, as the county had power.
to erect a court-house, that power implied the power to contract out the work, and to issue negotiable bonds of a commer:
voL. cxxvx'r-44

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

cial character in payment thereof, Mr. Justice Bradley, who
delivered the opinion of the court, said: "We cannot concur
in this view. The erection of court-houses, jails and bridges
is amongst the ordinary political or administrative duties of
all counties; and from the doctrine of the charge it would
necessarily follow that all counties have the incidental power,
without any express legislative authority, to issue bonds, notes
and other commercial paper in payment of county debts and
charges; and if they have this power, then such obligations
issued by the county authorities and passing into the hands of
bona' f&de holders would preclude the county from showing
that they were issued improperly, or without consideration, or
for a debt already paid; and it would then be in the power
of such authorities to utter any amount of such paper, and to
fasten irretrievable burdens upon the county without any
benefit i;eceived. Our opinion is, that mere political bodies,
constituted as counties are for the purpose of local police and
administration, and haying the power of levying taxes to
defray all public charges created, whether they are or are not
formally invested with corporate capacity, have no power or
authority to make or utter commercial paper of any kind,
unless 'such power is expressly conferred upon them by law,
or clearly implied from some other power expressly given,
which cannot be fairly exercised without it;" citing Police
Jury v. Britton, 15 Wall. 566; The .Mayor v. Ray, 19 Wall.
468.
In Young v. Clarendon, Township, 132 UT. S. 340, 347, many
of the decisions bearing on this question were referred to, and
the court said: "Even where there is authority to aid a railroad, and incur a debt in extending such aid, it is also settled
that, such power does not carry with it any authority to execute negotiable bohds, except subject to the restrictions and
directions of the enabling act;" citing WVells v. Supervisors,
102 U. S. 625; Claiborne Gounty v. Brooks, '111 U. S. 400;
Zelley y. Milan, 127 U. S. 139.
In I--i/Z v. Miemphis, 134 U. S. 198, 203, it was held that the
power conferred by statute on municipal corporations to subscribe for stock in a railway corporation did not include the

MERRILL v. MONTICELLO.
Opinion of the Court.

power to create a debt and issue negotiable bonds in order to
pay for that subscription. In delivering the opinion of the
court, Mr. Justice Field said: "Whilst a municipal corporation,
authorized to subscribe for the stock of a railroad company,
or to incur any other obligation, may give written evidence of
such subscription or obligation, it is not thereby empowered
to issue negotiable paper for the amount of indebtedness incurred by the subscription- or obligation. Such papers in the
hands of innocent parties for value cannot be enforced without reference to any defence on the part of the corporation,
whether existing at the time or arising subsequently. - Municipal corporations are established for. purposes of local government, and in the absence of specific delegation of power
cannot engage in any undertakings not directed immediately
to the accomplishment of those purposes. Private corporations created for private purposes may contract debts in connection with their business, and issue evidence of them in
such form as may best suit their convenience. The inability
of municipal corporations to issue negotiable paper for their
indebtedness, however incurred, unless authority for that purpose is expressl given or necessarily implied for the execution of other express powers, has been affirmed in repeated
decisions of this court." All of the cases we have cited above
were referred to in the opinion in that case as sustaining the
-doctrine therein laid down.
The logical result of the doctrines announced in the above
cited cases, in our opinion, clearly shows that the bonds sued
on in this case are invalid. It does not follow that, because
the town of Monticello had the right to contract a loan, it
had, therefore, the right to issue negotiable bonds and put
them on the market as evidences of such loan. To borrow
money, and to give a bond or obligation therefor which may
circulate in the market as a negotiable security; freed from
any equities that may be set up by the maker of it, are, in
their nature and in their legal effect, essentially different
transactions. In the present case all that can be contended
for is. that the town had the power to contract a-loan, under
certain specified restrictiois and limitations. Nowhere in, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

statute is there any express power given to issue negotiable
bonds as evidence of such loan. Nor can such power be
implied, because the existence of it is not necessary to carry
out any of the purposes of the municipality.'
It is true that there is a considerable number of cases, many
of which are cited in the brief of counsel for plaintiff in error,
which hold a contrary doctrine. But the view taken by this
court in the cages above cited and others seems to us more in
keeping with the well recognized and settled principles of the
law of municipal 'corporations. For, as is said in Dillon's
2funic. Corp., (third ed.,) ยง 507: "The frauds which unscrupulous officers will be enabled successfully to practice, if an implied and unguarded power to issue negotiable securities is
recognized, and which the corporation or the citizen will be
helpless to Prevent, is a strong argument against the judicial
establishment of 'any such power. And the argument is
unanswerable, when it is remembered that in ascertaining the
extent of corporate powers there is no rule of safety, but the
rule of strict construction, and that such an implied power is
not necessary, however convenient it may be at times, to enable the corporation to exercise its ordinary and usual express
powers, or to cairy into effect the purposes for which the cor-.
poration is created. 'We r'eg'ard as alike unsound and dangerous the doctrine that 'a public or municipal corporation
possesses the implied power to borrow money for its ordinary
pu'rposes, and, incidental to that, the power to issue commercial securities. The cases on this subject are conflicting, but
the tenden'cy is towards the view above indicated. The opinion-of Mr. Justice Bradley, in a case before referred to, (The
.Mayorv. Bay,) evinces a' thor6ugh comprehension of the whole
question, and, in our judgpient, 'is sound in every proposition
it advances, and must become the law of this country. This
view is confirmed by the almost invariable legislative practice
in the States to confer, -hep" it is deefned expedient, upon
municipalities and public corporations, in express terms, the
power to barrow money or to issue negotiable bonds or
secirities."
Tfi the case before us the power in question is Alot, in our

MERRILL v. MONTICELLO.
Opinion *of the Court.

opinion, indispensable to the exercise of the express or implied
powers conferred upon the t6wn by law. The utmost that
can be gaid is, that it was deemed more convenient or expedient
to issue the bonds in that form than in the mode prescribed.
We think that the fact that the legislature of the State of
Indiana, by the acts of 1867, 1869 and 1873, above referred
to, expressly authorized towns in the same class as the defendant in error to issue bonds for certain specified purposes, under
proper safeguards and limitations, is indicative of the legislative understanding that, without some such express statutory
provisions, no power existed in the town to issue negbtiabl.
bonds, and sell them in open market.
The same may be said of the act of the legislature of that
State which took effect August 24, 1879, expressly conferring
upon the towns in that State power to fund their indebtedness
by issuing bonds and negotiating them for that purpose, under
certain specified terms, restrictions and limitations.
We are not unmindful that in several of the cases in the
Supreme Court of Indiana, cited by counsel for plaintiff in
error, there may be found abstract propositions, susceptible
of a construction in support of the position he seeks to maintain. But we think-this case is distinguishable from them all,
in essential features, which except it from those general propositions, and leaves the conclusion which we have reached in
harmony with them.
It is contended that the bonds sued on were issued practically for the purpose of taking the place of the prior bonds
outstanding and unpaid, which represented a debt for th4
erection of a school. building, and were, therefore, authorized
by section 4488. This position is untenable. It cannot be
reasonably contended that the bonds were issued unreer any of
the sections relating to the fiegotiation and sale of bonds for
school purposes. It is not even pretended that they were
issued in accordance with the clearly defined conditions and
restrictions imposed by those sections.
Nor do we, think the fact that the town: actuallyreceived a
portion of the money. arising from the sale of the so-called
bonds (or, in legal contemplation, perhaps all of it, as it was

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

paid to the agent of the town,) estops the corporation from
pleading a want of authority in the municipality to issue the
instruments sued on. The original act of issuing the bonds
for sale was not only unauthorized by law, but in disregard of.
its requirements, and no subsequent act of the town trustees
could make it valid. Whether it could be a circumstance in
favor of the equitable right of the holders of the bonds to
recover from the municipality the money which they represent
is a question not here for consideration. The suit was upon
the bonds themselves, and for the reasons above stated we hold
that there can be no recovery upon them.
Judgment afflrmed.
MRii. JUSTICE BROWN was not a member of the court when
this case was argued, and took no part in its decision.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and ilp. JUSTICE: BREWER were not present at the argument, and took no part in the decision.

ANDERSON v. WATT.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTrHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 138. Argued January 8, 1891.-Decided March 2, 1891.

Since the passage of the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470, if it appear
from the pleadings and proofs, taken together, that the defendants are
citizens of the United States, and reside, in the sense Qf having their permanent domicil, in the State of which the complainants are citizens, (or
that each of the indispensable adverse parties is not competent to sue or
liable to be sued therein,) the Circuit Court cannot maintain cognizance
of the suit; and the inquiry is determined by the condition of the parties
at the commencement of the suit.
The husband of a married woman is a necessary party in Florida to a suit
in equity to foreclose a mortgage 'upon real estate owned by her there;
and although he be not named in the bill as defendant he may appear
at the hearing with the consent of all parties, and in this case the objection of want of consent cannot be taken.

