KAUFFMfAN v. WOOTTERS.
Counsel for Parties

the plaintiffs in the writs be joined as parties defendant, where,
as in this case, it does not appear, either from the pleadings or
the proofs, that they advised or directed the sheriff to seize

the particular property, as the property of their judgment
debtor. In our opinion injunction was the proper remedy, the
remedy at law being wholly inadequate to prevent or repair
the injuries set forth in the pleadings, and stated in the findings of the court.
We have not deemed it necessary to discuss the jurisdictional question raised by the appellee. It is clear that the
appeal in this case was allowed by the proper court; that all
the proceedings relative to the perfecting of an appeal were
taken within two years from the date of entering the judgment of the court below; and that the enabling act admitting the two Dakotas, Montana and Washington Territories
as States authorizes us to proceed to hear and determine cases
of this character.
JAdgment alprmed.

KAUFFMAN v. WOOTTERS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 1360. Submitted January 5, 1891. -Decided

February 2, 1891.

State legislation simply forbidding the defendant to come into court and
challenge the validity of service upon him in a personal action, without
surrendering himself to the jurisdiction of the court, but which does not
attempt to restrain him from fully protecting his person, his property
and his rights against any attempt to enforce a judgment rendered without due process of law, is not in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
York v. Texas, 137 U. S. 15, affirmed and applied.

Tins was a motion to dismiss or affirm.
in the opinion.

The case is stated

.Mr. A. H. Garlandand .Xr.H. J. Mray for the motion.

.M

. f.. Waul opposing.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JusTicE HARLA_

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is before us upon a motion to dismiss the writ of
error for want of jurisdiction in this court to reexamine the
judgment below; or, if this court has jurisdiction, to affirm
the judgment upon the ground that the question on whichour
right of review, depends is too frivolous to require argument
upon it.
Certain provisions of the statutes of Texas relating to the
service of process are, it is contended, in violation of the clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment, declaring that no State shall
deprive any person of property without due process of law.
These provisions are as follows: (Rev. Stats. Texas.)
"Art. 1240. The defendant may accept service of any process, or waive the issuance, or service thereof, by a written
memorandum signed by him or by his duly authorized agent
or attorney, and filed among the papers of the cause; and such
waiver or acceptance shall have the same force and effect -as if
the citation had been issued and served as provided by law.
Art. 1241. The defendant may in person, or by attorney, or
by his duly authorized agent, enter an appearance in open
court, and such appearance shall be noted by the judge upon
his docket and entered in the minutes, and shall have the
same force and effect as if citation had been duly issued and
served as provided by law. Art. 1242. The filing of an answer
shall constitute an appearance of the defendent so as to dispense with the necessity for the issuance or service of citation
upon him. Art. 1243. Where the citation or service thereof
is quashed on motion of the defendant, the case may be continued for the term, but the defendant shall be deemed to
have entered his appearance to the succeeding term of the
court. Art. 1244. Where the judgment is reversed on appeal
or writ of error taken by the defendant for the want of service, or because of defective service of process, no new citation
shall be issued or served, but the defendant shall be presumed
to have entered his appearance to the term of the court at
which the mandate shall be filed. Art. 1245. No judgment
shall in any case be rendered against, any defendant unless

BELMONT BRIDGE v. WHEELING BRIDGE.

287

Syllabus.

upon service, or acceptance, or waiver of process, or upon an
appearance by the defendant, as prescribed in this chapter,
except where otherwise expressly provided by law."
The Supreme Court of Texas, construing these statutory
provisions, has held, and it so held in this case, that a defendant who appears only to obtain- the judgment of the court
upon the sufficiency of the service of process upon him, is
thereafter subject to the jurisdiction of the court, although the
process against him is adjudged to have been insufficient to
bring him into court for any purpose. The question here is
whether such legislation 'isconsistent with "due process. of
law." That question, arising upon the above statute, was presented in Fork v. f'exas, 137 U. S.15, 19, and it was there
held that State legislation "simply forbidding the defendant
to come into court and challenge the validity of service upon
him in a personal action, without surrendering himself to the
jurisdiction of the court, but which does not attempt to restrain
him from fully protecting his person, his property and his
rights against any attempt to enforce a,judgment rendered
without due service of process," was not forbidden by the
Fourteenth Amendment.
Upon the record of this case there was color for the motion
to dismiss, and, upon the authority of York v. Tea", the
motion to affirm the judgment is sustained.

.4ffirmd.

WHEELING AND BELMIONT BRIDGE COMPANY v.
WHEELING BRIISGE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT

OF

APPEALS OF THE STATE

OF

VIRGINIA.
2No. 1425. Submitted December 15, 1890. -Decided February 2,1891.

When the highest court of a State holds a judgment of an inferior court of
that State to be final, this court can hardly consider it in any other light
in exercising its appellate jurisdiction.
A ferry connecting Wheeling with'Wheeling Island was licensed at an early
day in Virginia. Subsequently a general law of that State prohibited

