BELMONT BRIDGE v. WHEELING BRIDGE.

287

Syllabus.

upon service, or acceptance, or waiver of process, or upon an
appearance by the defendant, as prescribed in this chapter,
except where otherwise expressly provided by law."
The Supreme Court of Texas, construing these statutory
provisions, has held, and it so held in this case, that a defendant who appears only to obtain- the judgment of the court
upon the sufficiency of the service of process upon him, is
thereafter subject to the jurisdiction of the court, although the
process against him is adjudged to have been insufficient to
bring him into court for any purpose. The question here is
whether such legislation 'isconsistent with "due process. of
law." That question, arising upon the above statute, was presented in Fork v. f'exas, 137 U. S.15, 19, and it was there
held that State legislation "simply forbidding the defendant
to come into court and challenge the validity of service upon
him in a personal action, without surrendering himself to the
jurisdiction of the court, but which does not attempt to restrain
him from fully protecting his person, his property and his
rights against any attempt to enforce a,judgment rendered
without due service of process," was not forbidden by the
Fourteenth Amendment.
Upon the record of this case there was color for the motion
to dismiss, and, upon the authority of York v. Tea", the
motion to affirm the judgment is sustained.

.4ffirmd.

WHEELING AND BELMIONT BRIDGE COMPANY v.
WHEELING BRIISGE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT

OF

APPEALS OF THE STATE

OF

VIRGINIA.
2No. 1425. Submitted December 15, 1890. -Decided February 2,1891.

When the highest court of a State holds a judgment of an inferior court of
that State to be final, this court can hardly consider it in any other light
in exercising its appellate jurisdiction.
A ferry connecting Wheeling with'Wheeling Island was licensed at an early
day in Virginia. Subsequently a general law of that State prohibited

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.
the courts of the different counties from licensing a ferry within a half
a mile in a direct line from an established ferry. In 1847 the defendant.
purchased the ferry and its rights. Held,
(1) That the general law of Virginia had in it nothing in the nature of a
contract;
(2) That the transfer of the existing rights from the vendor to the vendee added nothing to them.
An alleged surrender or suspension of a power of government respecting
any matter of public concern must be shown by clear and unequivocal
language; it cannot be inferred from any inhibitions upon particular
officers, or special tribunals, or from any doubtful or uncertain expressions.

Tmis was a motion to dismiss or affirm.
stated by the court.

The case was thus

This was a proceeding commenced by petition in a court of
West Virginia by the Wheeling Bridge Company, a corporation under the laws of that State, to condemn for its use a
parcel of ground owned by the Wheeling and Belmont Bridge
Company, a corporation formed under the laws of Virginia,
of which the territory composing West Virginia was then a
part. The petitioner represented that it was created a corporation for the purpose of constructing and maintaining a
bridge across the Ohio River, from a point on the east side of
its main channel, north of the public landing in the city of
Wheling, to a point nearly opposite on Wheeling Island in
that city -the bridge to be for public use; and that in order
to construct it and its approaches it was necessary to build over
and to take a parcel of land belonging to the Wheeling and
Belmont Bridge Company on Wheeling Island, which parcel
was described in the petition and designated on an accompanying plat, and contained about thirty perches.
The petitioner averred that there was no lien or charge upon
the parcel of land; that it was unable to agree with the
Wheeling and Belmont Bridge Company on the terms of purchase; and that the land was necessary for the construction
of the proposed bridge and the approaches to it. It therefore
prayed that notice might be given to the Wheeling and Belmont Bridge Company of the filing of the application, and

BELMONT BRIDGE v. WHEELING BRIDGE.

289

Statement of the Case.

that the same would be heard on a day designkted; that commissioners be appointed by the court to ascertain what would be
a just compensation for the land; and that upon the payment
of the compehsation thus ascertained the title might be vested
in the petitioner.
To this petition the Wheeling and Belmont Bridge Company
appeared and tendered seven pleas; in the first four of which
the defendant joined issue, raising the question of the necessity
of the parcel of land desired for the purpose of maintaining
theproposed bridge of the petitioner and its approaches, and
of the necessity of the parcel and certain structures thereon
for the proper exercise by the defendant of its fraibhise. The
issues were found in favor of the petitioner by a jury, establishing the fact that the land desired was essential to the proposed work of the petitioner and was not essential to the
proper exercise of the franchise of the defendant. No questions were raised as to the correctness of the rulings upon the
trial of these issues, at least none which can be considered by
this court.
The other three pleas raised the question of the power of
the legislature to authorize the construction of a new bridge.
within half a mile either way from the bridge of the defendant, to transport persons and. property across the Ohio River,
the defendant contending that, by its charter and the privileges of owners of ferries which it had acquired, it had become
invested with the exclusive right to thus transport persons andproperty within that distance of its bridge. The court held
the pleas insufficient, and rejected them, and rendered judgment sustaining the proceedings for the condemnation of the.
property, adjudging that it was necessary for the petitioner to.
take it for the purpose of prosecuting, its proposed work, and
was not necessary to the defendant for the exercise of its franchise. The court thereupon named commissioners to ascertailm
what would be just compensation for the land. A writ of
error was subsequently allowed, the proceedings of the commissioners stayed, and the case taken to the Supreme Court,.
where the judgment of the lower court was affirmed. To review this latter judgment the case was brought here.
VOL. cx.xx.*m-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Jrp. W P. H u5ard for the motion.
21!r. Daniel .Lamb, .Mr. A. J. Clarke and .Mr.Henry X

jRIssell opposing.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD, after stating the caze, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The defendant in error, the plaintiff below, moves in the
alternative to dismiss the appeal on the ground that the judg2nent recovered is not final, or to affirm the judgment on the
ground of the manifest insufficiency of the errors assigned.
The essential points of contention in the case related to the
necessity of the property for the purpose of the petitioner,
and to its necessity to the defendant for the proper exercise of
its franchise. The judgment for the condemnation was conclusive upon both particulars. A right to condemn, as held
by the Supreme Court of the State, is to-be determined before
the appointment of commissioners to estimate the amount of
compensation to be made. Baltimore & O/o Railroad v.
Pittsburgk, Wkleeling &c. .Railroad, 17 West Va. 812. If the
judgment had been different, all further proceedings would
have been ended. Being for the condemnation, the estimate
of the compensation, which was to follow, was to be made
by commissioners, to be appointed, and might therefore be
treated as being a distinct proceeding. The judgment appears
to have been considered by that court as so far final as to
justify an appeal from it; and if the Supreme Court of a
State holds a judgment of an inferior court of the State to be
final, we can hardly consider it in any other light, in exercising our appellate jurisdiction. The motion to disiss must,
therefore, be denied. But upon the motion to affirm, other
consideratioris arise upon the 5th, 6th and 7th special pleas,
which -were held insufficient and rejected.
The fifth special plea sets forth, in substance, that the
defendant was organized under a charter from the State of
Virginia to erect a bridge across the Ohio River at or near
the town of Wheeling; that in pursuance of the charter it
erected and has for many years maintained for public use,

BELMONT BRIDGE v. WHEELING BRIDGE.

291

Opinion of the Court.
in consideration of tolls lawfully exacted, a wire suspension
bridge extending from the eastern shore of the river at Tenth
Street in the city of Wheeling to the eastern shore of Zane's or
Wheeling Island; that it was empowered by the legislature to
purchase, acquire and hold all ferry rights and privileges
between Zane's Island and the main Virginia shore at the
city of Wheeling; that in the year 184:7 there was, and for
many years had been, between those points, a ferry maintained and owned by certain parties named, together with the
rights and privileges by law incident thereto; that in September, 1847, it acquired by purchase from them the said ferry
and the rights and privileges thereof, and has since owined and
enjoyed the same; that its present toll bridge was erected
and has been maintained substantially in the location of the
ferry, and by the use of the bridge for the public it has kept in
full force and vigor the rights and privileges appertaining to
the ferry. The plea also sets forth that at the time when the
defendant acquired the ferry and the rights and privileges
incident thereto, one of them was the exclusive right to transport persons, animals and vehicles across the Ohio River within
the limits of one-half a mile from the ferry; and that the
bridge proposed to be built by the petitioner is to be located,
and the whole parcel of land proposed to be condemned is
situated, within half a mile of the said ferry and of the defendant's bridge.
The sixth special plea embodies substantially the averments
of the fifth, with an additional one to the effect that out of
the powers and authorities granted to the defendant and the.
acquisition by it of the said ferry and the rights, privileges and
franchises thereof, a contract arose between the State of Virginia and the defendant, that it should have and enjoy during
its chartered existence, the exclusive privilege of transporting
persons, animals and vehicles across the Ohio River at all
points within half a mile of the location of the ferry; that
upon the formation of the State of West Virginia it became a
party to the contract and is bound by it, but that the legislature of the State, not regarding its obligations,- in March, 1882,
passed an act providing that corporations might be formed,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

for the purpose of erecting and maintaining toll bridges over
the Ohio River for the transportation of persons, vehicles and
other things, and that no ferry privileges or franchises should
preclude the erection of such bridges, or entitle the owner to
damages by reason thereof. The defendant avers that this
act of the legislature of West Virginia is unconstitutional and
void, as impairing the obligation of the contract between
West Virginia and Virginia and the defendant. The seventh
special plea adds nothing material to the averments of the
other two.
The contention of the defendant is, that by the acquisition
of the ferry and its privileges, and the authority to construct
its bridge, it has the exclusive right to transport passengers,
animals and vehicles over the Ohio River at all points within
half a mile of the bridge. The ferry which it purchasedthe one connecting the main land with Wheeling Island - was
licensed at an early day, and no exclusive privileges, such as
are claimed now, were then attached to the franchise. The
subsequent general law of Virginia, passed in 1840, prohibiting the courts of the different counties from licensing a ferry
within half a mile in a direct line from an established ferry,
had in it nothing of the nature of a contract. It was a gratuitous proceeding on the part of the legislature, by which a
certain benefit was conferred upon existing ferries, but not
accompanied by any conditions that made the act take the
character of a contract., It was a matter of ordinary legislation, subject to be repealed at any time when, in the judgment
of the legislature, the public interest should require the repeal.
The mere purchase by the defendant of existing rights and
privileges added nothing to them. It would be absurd to suppose that the transfer from vendor to vendee-gave them any
additional force or validity. Here the prohibition of the act
of 1840 was only upon the county courts, and that in no way
affected the legislative power of the 'State. Fanning v. Gregoire, 16 How. 524. Nor did the charter of the defendant
contain any inhibition upon the State to authorize the establishment of another bridge within the distance claimed whenever the public interest should require it. An alleged surren-

UNITED STATES v. GREEN.
Syllabus.

der or suspension of a power of government respecting any
matter of public concern must be shown by clear and unequivocal language; it cannot be inferred from any inhibitions upon
particular officers, or special tribunals, or from any doubtful
or uncertain expressions. As was said substantially in the
case of Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 420,
548, whenever it is alleged that a State has surrendered or
suspended its power of improvement and public accommodation on an important line of travel, along which a great number of persons must daily pass, the community has a right to
insist that its surrender or suspension shall not b6 admitted, in
a case in which the deliberate purpose of the State to make
such surrender or suspension does not appear; referring to several adjudications of this court in support of the doctrine.
And whatever of exclusiveness there was in the privilege extended by the act of 1840 within half a mile on each side of
an established ferry, was repealed in 1882. From that time
the defendant could claim no exclusive privilege to tiansport
passengers, animals and vehicles over the Ohio River within
the distance mentioned under the repealed statute, even .if it
could have done so before.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. GREEN.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
o. 1343. Submitted January 9,1891. -Decided February 2,1891.

The plaintiff was a-commander in the navy of the United States, with the
following record of entry and promotion: in the volunteer service, acting master's mate, May 7, 1861; acting ensign, November 27, 1862; acting master, August 11, 186:-in the regular service, master, March 12,
1868; lieutenant, December 18, 1868; lieutenant-commander, July 3, 1870;
commander, March 6, 1887. He had never received any benefit of Ionge/ity pay under that clause in the act of March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 473, C.
97, providing that "all officers of the navy shall be credited with the
actual time they may have served as officers or enlisted men in the regular or volunteer Army or Navy, or both, and shall receive all the benefits

