BEAUPR

v. NOYES.

Statement of the Case.

thereby enabled to transfer the particular suit, as it affected
all the defendants, to the Circuit Court.
The decree is reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions to remand it to the state court.

BEAUPRE v. NOYES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NIN NESOTA.
No. 160. Argued and submitted January 23,1891. -Decided

February2, 1891.

Although a case from the highest court of a State may involve a Federal
question, yet, if that court proceeds upon another and distinct ground,
not involving a Federal question, and sufficient in itself to maintain the
fnal judgment, without reference to the Federal question involved, its
judgment will be affirmed here.
This court is without authority to review an order denying a motion for a
new trial.

THE

case, as stated by the court, was as follows:

This action was brought in the District Court of Ramsey
County, Minnesota, by the defendants in error, partners as
Noyes Bros. & Cutler, against the plaintiffs in error, partners
as Beaupr6, Keogh & Co., each firm d6ing business in the city
of St. Paul.
The complaint alleges that Charles Young, engaged in get eral mercantile business at Forsyth, in Custer County, Moitana, being insolvent, and indebted to many persons, - among
others, to the plaintiffs in the sum of $425.71, and to the
defendants in the sum of $1080.43,- executed, on the 27th of
April, 1883, a deed of assignment for the benefit of his creditors, whereby, and for the purpose of making equal provision
for all of them, he transferred to C. A. Winchester .his property, real and personal, in trust- fdr- -his creditors; that Winchester accepted the trust, qualified as assignee,. took actual
possession of the property assigned, proceeded in due form
to execute-the trust, and has ever since been such assignee;

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

that the deed was duly recorded May 1, 1883, in the proper
office; that the property so transferred was worth $6000, and
consisted, among other things, of a stock of general merchandise, books, book accounts, etc.; that of said assignment the
plaintiffs were notified by Winchester as soon as he had taken'
possession of the property under the deed of assignment, and
defendants assented thereto; that afterwards, on and between
M,ay 1, 1883 and January 2, 1884, Winchester, as such assignee, and not otherwise, with the consent of all the creditors, especially of tbe defendants, carried on business at
Forsyth, purchasing large amounts of goods and merchandise
as such assignee, and placing the same in the store building,
previously occupied by Young at Forsyth, with the goods
transferred by said deed of assignment; that Winchester continued until January 2, 188-, to sell both the original stock
and the new goods so purchased, and applied the proceeds
thereof, not required to meet the expenses of the assignment,
to the payment as fast as possible of Young's creditors and of
the debts *incurred by the assignee; that the new goods were
obtained solely to enable the assignee to dispose of all the
property to the best advantage and were paid for out of the
proceeds of the trust property as well as from the proceeds of
the new goods purchased; that the defendants were paid as
well on account of their claims against Young as for the
goods purchased from them by the assignee, out of the proceeds of both the old and new stock; and that the defendants
knew of all these matters and consented thereto.
It also alleges that, on the 2d of January, 1884, the defendants caused two actions to be commenced in the District
Court for Ouster County, Territory of Montana, one against
Young and the other against Young and Winchester, the first
to recover $683.71, (the balance claimed to be due them from
Young on his original indebtedness to them,) and the second
to recover $931.44, as the balance due them from Young and
Winchester for merchandise sold and delivered by the defendants between the date of the assignment and the commencement of those actions; that they. caused attachmints to be
issued in such actions against the property of Young, and of

BEAUPR2 v. N OYES.
Statement of the Case.

Young and Winchester, respectively, under which, by the
direction of the defendants herein, the stock of merchandise, in
the possession of Winchester as aforesaid, was seized and taken
possession of by the officer serving the attachments; that said
property was of the value of $6000; that afterwards, January
15, 1881, Winchester, as such assignee, sold-.and conveyed to
the plaintiffs herein the property so attached, which writing
was duly recorded on the day of its date; and that the plaintiffs by such sale and conveyance became the owners of said
property.
The complaint further alleged that the plaintiffs purchased
the property for the sole purpose of preserving it from sacrifice by sale under the attachments, and -that it might be applied
to the purposes and objects of the trust, and for the benefit,
share and share alike, of all the creditors of Young and of
Winchester, as assignee; that the officer having the attachments refused, upon the demand of the plaintiffs, and under
the order of the defendants, to deliver the attached property
to them; that a like demand was made upon the defendants,
but they refused to surrender it, and have wrongfully converted
all of it to their own use and benefit, to the damage of plaintiffs in the sum of $6000; and that the total value of the merchandise sold by the defendants to Winchester, as assignee,
was $2675, on which he had paid $1743.36.
The prayer of the plaintiff is for a judgment for $6000, the
value of the property, with interest, and $1500 damages.
The answer alleges that while the defendants supposed from
the representations made to them by Young and Winchester
that an assignment had been made by Young to .Winchester,
in good faith, for the benefit of their creditors without preference, and while they had sold goods to Winchester in the belief
that he ordered and procured them merely to fiacilitate his disposal of the goods acquired by him under the alleged assignmeht; they, subsequently, ascertained that no valid assignment
had been made; that the goods, so pretended to be assigned,
remained in-the acual,.possession of-Young, and never were
delivered to Winchester ;' that the- a4kged assignment was a
mere device to binder ;Fcung'i drdditors ftoiw, O.1eJting their

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

debts by legal process; and that the whole arrangement was
a trick, up6n the part of Young, to continue in the control of
the goods, through Winchester, who was only his clerk, and
to so manage his business that he could pay out of the proceeds of the trust property and out of the new goods procured
by him in the name of Winchester such creditors as he chose
to pay, and to delay and defraud others, including the defendants.
The answer avers that the alleged deed of assignment was
fraudulent and void under the statutes of the Territory of
Montana, in force in 1883, when the deed was made. Those
statutes provided: "ยง 165. All deeds of gift, all conveyances
and transfers or assignments, verbal or written, of goods, chattels or things in action, made in trust for the use of the person
making the same, shall be void as against the creditors, existing or subsequent, of such person." "ยง 169. Every sale made
by a vendor of goods and chattels in his possession or under
his control, and every assignment of goods and chattels, unless
the same be accompanied by the immediate delivery, and be
followed by an actual and continued change of possession of
the things sold and assigned, shall be conclusive evidence of
fraud as against the creditors of the vendor or the person
making such assignment or subsequent purchasers in good
faith. ยง 170. The term creditors, as used in the last section,
shall be construed to include all persons who shall be creditors of the vendor or assignor at any time while such goods
and chattels shall remain in his possession or under his control."
C(ยง 172. Every conveyance or assignment, in writing or otherwise, of any estate or interest in lands or in goods in action,
or of the rents or.profits thereof, made with intent to hinder,
delay or defraud creditors or other persons of their lawful
suits, damages, forfeitures, debts or demands, and any bond
or other evidences of debt given, suits commenced, decrees or
judgment suffered, with the like intent as against the person
hindered, delayed or defrauded, shall be void." Laws of
Montana, 1879, pp. 436-7. [These provisions are printed in
the Compiled Laws of Montana, ed. 1887, on pages 652 and
653, as sections 222, 226, 227 and 229 ofthe Fifth Division.]

BEA UPRE v. NOYES.
Opinion of the Court.

The answer averred that under these circumstances and in
conformity with these statutory provisions, the above actions
were brought in Montana by the present defendants. In those
actions Young and Winchester appeared and such proceedings
were had therein that judgment was rendered against Young
in the action against him for $1024.93 and against Winchester
in the other action for $1995.35. The attached property was
sold under executions on those judgments for $676.90, which
is alleged to have been its full value.
There was a verdict in the present action in favor of the
plaintiffs. The case has been twice before the Supreme Court
of Minnesota, first upon appeal from the order overruling a
demurrer to the complaint, Noyes v. Beauprj,32 Minnesota,
496, where the complaint was adjudged to be sufficient inlaw,
and then upon appeal from the final judgment, .Toyes v.
Beau rJ. 36 Minnesota, 49.
Xb. I

. D. Heard for plaintiffs in error, submitted on his

brief.
.Mr.C. Ef. Davis for defendants in error.
MR. JusTicE BL&_

delivered the opinion of the court.

The contention of the plaintiffs in error is, that by the
statutes of the Territory of M ontana, above quoted, the alleged
assignment by Young to Winchester was conclusively fraudulent as to them, for the want of the immediate delivery, followed by an actual and continued change of possession, of the
goods assigned; that their right to so treat the assignment,
although such right was specially set up and claimed, was
denied; and that, consequently, they were denied a right
arising under an authority exercised under the United States.
Whether the state court so interpreted the Territorial statute
as to deny such right to the plaintiffs in error, we need not
inquire, for it proceeded, in part, upon another and distinct
ground, not involving any federal question, and sufficient, im
itself, to maintain the judgment, without reference to that
question. That ground is, fhat there N.s evidence tending to.
VOL. cxxxvi-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

show that the defendants acquiesced in and assented to all
that was done, and waived any irregularity in the mode in
which the assignee conducted the business; and that the question whether the defendants so acquiesced and assented with
knowledge of all the facts and thereby waived their right to
treat the assignment as fraudulent, was properly submitted to
the jury. The state court evidently intended to hold that,
even if the assignment was originally fraudulent, as against
the creditors, by reason of Young remaining in the store as
clerk for Winchester, and assisting the latter in carrying on
the business, it was competent for the plaintiffs in error to
waive the fraud and treat the assignment as valid for all the
purposes specified hi it. That view does not involve a federal
question. Whether sound or not, we do not inquire. It is
broad enough, in itself, to support the final judgment, without
reference to the federal question, and for that reason the
judgment must be
_____

BEAU R

v. No-Es.

Aj~rmed.

Error to the Supreme Court of the State of

Minnesota. No. 159 argued and submitted with No. 160, January
23, 1891. MfR. JUSTIcE. HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is the same case, in respect to the issues and facts as the
above case. It is a writ of error to review the judgment of the
Supreme Court of the State affirming the order of the court of
original jurisdiction refusing a new trial in the above action. This
writ was sued out upon the theory that the denial of a new trial
might be regarded as a final judgment of the state court within the
meaning of the act of Congress. But, clearly, this court has no
jurisdiction to review such an order. The writ of.error in case 159
must, therefore, be
Dismissed.
Mr. V. D. Heard for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. 0. K. Davis for defendants in error.

