OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

MISSOURI v. ANDRIANO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NMISSOURI.
No. 127.

Submitted January 5, 1891.-Decided March 2, 1891.

When the decision of a state court is in favor of a right or privilege claimed
under a statute of the United States, this court has no jurisdiction to
review it.
THE controversy in this case arose from the conflicting
claims of the relator and the respondent to the office of sheriff
of Buchanan County, Missouri. The proceeding was originally instituted by an information in the nature of a quo warTanto, filed by the prosecuting attorney, in the Circuit Court
of Buchanan County, to test the right of respondent, Andriano,
to assume the duties of sheriff. The information was filed
upon the relation of John H. Carey, who had been holding
the office and discharging its duties for the two preceding
years, and who, under the state law, had a right to hold it
until his successor should be duly elected, commissioned and
qualified. It alleged, in substance, that while the relator was
in office, having the right thereto, the respondent, without
any legal warrant, ground or right whatever, entered into,
and assumed to discharge part of the duties of such office;
and further averred that he was to that extent, an unlawf4 usurper of the rights belonging to relator, as sheriff of
such county. Waiving the issue of a writ, respondent appeared, and by his answer, which by agreement was treated
as a return, set up that he had received at the general election
in November, 1886, the majority of the votes cast thereat for
the office of sheriff of said county, and thereupon the governor of the State had issued to him his commission, and he
had given bond and duly qualified as such sheriff. He further
aileged that at the time of such election he was, and ever
since had been, a citizen of the United States, a resident of
the said county, and duly qualified, under the constitution and
laws of the State, to hold the office. To this answer or

MISSOURI v. A1WDRIANO.
Statement of the Case.

return there was filed a reply, denying that respondent was,
or ever had been, such citizen.
The case was tried upon the following stipulation of facts:
It was admitted by the parties, that Joseph Andriano, the
respondent, was born in Heidelberg, Baden, now in the German Empire, in October, 1841; that he came to the United
States with his father and mother in 1849, and the family
settled in Buchanan County, Mfissouri, where respondent has
ever since resided, and where his father and mother, who were,
from a long time before respondent's birth, during their joint
lives, husband and wife, resided up to the time of their deaths
respectively; that his father and mother both lived until long
after the year 1855; that respondent and his father and mother
were born citizens of Baden, and so continued up to the time
they came to the United States; and that Albert Andriano,
the respondent's said father, was, by proper proceeding in the
Circuit Court of the State of Missouri, within and for Buchanan County, duly naturalized under and pursuant to the
laws of the United States, and thereby became a citizen of
the United States, on the 4th day of October, A.D. 1854.
It was also admitted that all the statements contained in,
the information were true, and that respondent was guilty of
the acts therein set forth, provided he (respondent) was not a
citizen of the United States at the time of the general election,
in November, 1886; but that if he were such citizen, then,
while said acts were admitted to have been performed by
respondent, they were not unlawfully but rightfully performed
by him. It was also admitted that the respondent himself
never took any steps or did anything toward becoming naturalized as a citizen of the United States.
Upon the issue thus formed by the pleadings and stipulation, the Circuit Court found the respondent guilty as charged
in the information, and rendered a judgment ousting hiw from
the office, so far as he had been exercising, or assuming to
exercise the duties thereof. From this judgment respondent
appealed to the Supreme Court of the State, wherein the case
was heard and the judgment reversed, and respondent restored
to all things which he had lost by reason of the said judgment.
voL. cxxxvni-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

To reverse this decision of the Supreme Court relator sued out
this writ of error.
..

B.

R. Vineyard and Xr. Alexander Porter -Horse, for

plaintiff in error, submitted on their brief.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR.

JuSTICE

B.RowN delivered the opinion of the court.

We are confronted upon the threshold of this case with the
inquiry whether there is a federal question involved; if not,
the only disposition We can make of it is to dismiss it for
want of jurisdiction. The object of the proceeding is to try
the respective titles of the relator and the respondent to the
office of sheriff of Buchanan County, Missouri. Respondent
relies upon the fact that he received a majority of votes cast
at a popular election for the office. Relator claims to have
been in possession of the office since December 1, 1884, performing all the duties imposed upon him by. law, and as to
respondent's election, insists that the same is void under the
constitution of Missouri, which declares (Art. 8, sec. 12) that
"no person shall be elected or appointed to any office in this
State, civil or military, who is not a citizen of the United
States, and who shall not have resided in this State one
year next preceding his election or appointment." He claims
further, that under the laws of Missouri (Rev. Stats. sec. 3350)
he is entitled to hold the office until a successor is duly elected,
commissioned and qualified. In support of his claim that
respondent is not a citizen he relies upon the fact that he was
born in Germany and is, therefore, primafacie, an alien. To
this, respondent replies, admitting his foreign birth, and also
that he had never been naturalized under the laws of the
United States, but claiming that under section 4 of the act of
Congress of April 14, 1802, 2 Stat. 153, he became and was a
citizen by the naturalization of his father. This act, which is
reproduced in Rev. Stat. sec. 2172, provided "that the children of persons duly naturalized under any of the laws of the
United States, or who, previous to the passing of any law

MISSOURI v. ANDRIANTO.
Opinion of the Court.

upon that subject, by the government of the United States,
may have become citizens of any one of the said States, under
the laws thereof, being under the age of twenty-one years,
at the time of their parents being so naturalized or admitted to
the rights of citizenship, shall, if dwelling in the United States,
be considered as citizens of the United States, and the children
of persons who now are or have been citizens of the United
States, shall, though born out of the limits and jurisdiction of
the United States, be considered as citizens," etc. Here is
clearly a right or privilege claimed by respondent under a
statute of the United States within the meaning of Rev. Stat.
sec. 709, and had the judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri been adverse to his claim, there could be no doubt of his
right.to a writ of error from this court to review its ruling.
It is insisted, however, that the relator has no right to a review
of the ruling in favorof respondent, as he claimed no right or
privilege personal to himself or to his own status- as a citizen,
from such statute. The question thus presented is, whether
the right or privilege must necessarily be personal to the
plaintiff in error, or whether he is not entitled to a review
where such right or privilege is asserted by his opponent, and
the decision is in favor of such opponent and, adverse to himself. While there is some force in the argument that the
right of review in cases involving the construction of a federal
statute should be mutual, the act limits such right to cases
where the state court has decided again8t the title, right, privilege or immunity set up or claimed under the statute. Now,
the only claim made under the federal statute in this case is
by the respondent. The difficulty with the position of the
relator is that he asserts no right under the statute, but, to
establish the alleged alienage of the respondent, relies solely
upon the fact that the litter was born abroad. To this,
respondent replies, admitting his foreign birth, but claiming
that the statute makes him a citizen, and the state cburt -has
adopted his view.
The object of the present judiciary act was not to give a
right of review wherever the validity of an act of Congriess
was drawn in question, but to prevent the courts of the several

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

States from impairing or frittering away the authority of the
federal government, by giving a construction to its statutes
adverse to such authority. Of course, if the construction given
by the state court to the act under which the right is claimed
be favorable to such right, no such reason exists for a review
by this court. As stated by Chief Justice Taney in The Commonwealth Bank v. Grifflth, 14 Pet. 56, 58, "the power given
to the Supreme Court by this act of Congress was intended to,
protect the general government in the free and uninterrupted
exercise of the powers conferred on it by the Constitution, and
to prevent any serious impediment from being thrown in its
way while acting within the sphere of its legitimate authority.
The right was, therefore, given to this court to reexamine the
judgments of the state courts, where the relative powers of
the general and state government had been in controversy,
and the decision had been in favor of the latter."
The question is by no means a novel one in this court. The
case of .Fultonv. .AcAfee, 16 Pet. 149, was an action of ejectment, in which the lessor of the plaintiff made title under a.
certificate issued to him as assignee of Jefferson College, the
trustees of which college were authorized by an act of Congress to relinquish certain lands which had been reserved for
their use. Defendant offered testimony to show that the certificate was fraudulently obtained, that its authority had been
denied by the commissioner of the land office, and consequently
that it did not confer on the lessor of the plaintiff a valid legal
title upon which he could recover in ejectment. These questions
were decided by the state court in favor of the right claimed
by the plaintiff, and the defendant took a writ of error from
this court. It was held that, as the decision of the state
court was in favor of the right claimed, this court had no
jurisdiction.
The case of .inton v. Stanton, 12 How. 423, was an action
upon certain promissory notes, to which the defendant pleaded
a discharge under the bankruptcy law. Objections were taken
to the validity of the discharge, but they were overruled by
the court and judgment entered for the defendant. It was
held. the plaintiff had no right to a review in this court.

LOUISVILLE &c. RAILROAD C0

v. WILSON.

601

Statement of the Case.

"Undoubtedly," says Chief Justice Taney, "the defendant, in
pleading his discharge under the bankrupt law, claimed a right
or exemption under a law of Congress. But in order to give
jurisdiction, something morb-is necessary; the judgment of the
state court must be against the right claimed." Like rulings
were made in Gordonm v. Caldcleugh, 3 Cranch, 268; Strader
v. Baldwin, 9 How. 261; Burke v. Gaines, 19 How. 388;
Hale v. Gaines, 22 How. 144; Reddall v. Bryan, 24: How.
420; and ]Ryan v. Thomas, - Wall: 603.
None of the cases cited by the relator involve the question
.here presented, and the writ of error must be
Dismissedfor the want of jurisdiction.

LOUISVILLE, EVANSVILLE AND ST. LOUIS RAILROAD COMPANY v. WILSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 153. Argued January 21,1891.-Decided March 2.1891.

Some months after the sale of a railroad under foreclosure, and its surrender by the receiver to the corporation organized to receive it, the sale
being made with a provision that the purchaser should pay all debts adjudged to be superior in equity to the deeds of trust foreclosed, an order
was made giving such priority to the appellee. Held, that an appeal lay
in favor of the purchaser.
The term "wages of employ~s," as used in an order directing the payment
of certain classes of debts out of the proceeds of the sale of a railroad
under foreclosure, in preference to the secured liens, does not include
the services of counsel employed for special purposes.
Services of an attorney in securing payment to the receiver of a railroad of
rent due for property of the railroad company and the return of the
property, are entitled to priority of payment over the secured liens on
a sale of the road under foreclosure of a mortgage upon it.
The other claims of the appellee, not being rendered for the benefit of the
security holders, are not-entitled to such Priority.

Ox the 30th day of December, 1884, Isaac T. Burr filed in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern Dis-

