OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

The appropriation by Congress in this instance was by the
act of July 15,"1870, and that act in terms prohibited any
,extra allowances drom and after June 30, so that the act in-

creased the actual'pay and did not so disturb any vested rights
of the claimant as to give force to his position in this regard,
if it would in any aspect have affected the conclusion reached.
The judgment of the Court of 67aims isreversed and the
cause remandedwith directions to enterjudgmentfor $4.17
imfavor of claimant.

KANSAS CITY, FORT SCOTT AND MEMPHIS RAILROAD COMPANY v. DAUGHTRY.
:R=OR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
No. 1361. Submitted January 19, 1891. -Decided

STATE OF TENNESSEE.
February 2,1891.

When an issue of fact is raised upon a petition for the removal of a cause
from a state court to a Circuit Court of the United States, that issue
must be tried in the Circuit Court.
The statutes of the United States imperatively require that application to
remove a cause from a state court to a federal court should be made
before the plea is due under the laws and practice of the State; and
if the plaintiff does not take advantage of his right to take judgment by
default for want of such plea, he does not thereby extend the time for
application for removal.
The statutes of Tennessee require ihe plaintiff to file his declaration within
the- first three days of the term to which the writ is returnable and the
defendant to appear and demur or plead within the first two days after
the time allotted for filing the declaration. After due service of the
writ, the plaintiff's declaration was filed within the prescribed time. The
defendant three days later pleaded the general issue, and, after the lapse
of four terms, filed a petition in the state court for removal on* the
ground of diverse citizenship. This was denied, and exceptions taken.
The Supreme Court of the State upheld the refusal, passing upon the
,question of citizenship as an issue of fact. Held,
7(1) That that court had no jurisdiction over that issue of fact;
(2) But that, as the application for removal was made too late, its denial
.was right as matter of law, .and the judgment of that court
should be affirmed.

KANSAS CITY RAILROAD v. DAUGHTRY.
Opinion of the Court.

MoTIox to dismiss or affirm.

The case is stated in the

opinion.
.Mr. Luke E. Wright and Yr. George Ganwt for the motion.
Mr. Wallace Prattopposing.
MR. CHIEF
court.

JUSTICE

Fu=R delivered the opinion of the

This was an action commenced in the Circuit Court of
Shelby County, Tennessee, by R. S. Daughtry as administrator of John W. Daughtry, deceased, againist the Kansas City,
Fort Scott and Memphis Railroad Company and the Kansas
City, Memphis and Birmingham Railroad Company on the
16th of August, 1888, for the recovery of damages for the
death of John .W. Daughtry, alleged to have been occasioned
by the negligence of defendants. The summons was returnable on the third Monday of September, 1888, and alleged as
to the defendants, "both of which are railroad corporations
conducting business in Shelby County, Tennessee, with offices
and agencies in said coutity and State." The return of the
shuriff was as follows: "Cnme to hand 16th day of August,
.888. Executed on the Kadas City, Fort Scott and Memphis
Railroad Company by reading the contents of this writ to
J. H. Sullivan, sup't of said railroad co., he being the highest
officer to be found in my county, and executed on the Kansas
City, Birmingham and Memphis Railroad Company by reading
the contents of this writ to J. IL.Sullivan, sup't, he being
the highest officer of said co. to be found in my county. This
23d day of August, 1888."
The declaration was filed September.-il 1888, and averred,
in the first count, defendants to be "corp6 i ate persons, doing
business as such in Tennessee (under license and by consent of
the State);" and in the second count described the defendant
corporations as "doing business in Tennessee as afor.eaid." It
was also alleged in the first count that defendants "are and
were oijt4d prior to the 16th of August, 1888, engaged in
operating important lines of railway under one common or

OCTOBER TERAI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

general management, with depots and terminal facilities in
the taxing district of Shelby County;" and' in the second
count, that "on or about the 12th day of August, 1888, defendant companies were operating cars and engines on their
railroad lines leading into the taxing district of Shelby
County."
The statutes of Tennessee provide as follows:
"438. The declaration of the plaintiff shall be filed within
the first three days of the term to which the writ is returnable, otherwise the suit may, upon motion of the defendant,
be dismissed at plaintiff's cost.
"4239. The defendant shall appear and demur or plead
within the first two days after the time allotted for filing the
declaration, otherwise the plaintiff may have judgment by
default.
"4240. The plaintiff and defendant shall, within the first
two days after each sdbsequent step taken by the other in
making up an issue, demur or plead thereto, on penalty of
having the suit dismissed or judgment taken by default,
according as the failure is by the plaintiff or defendant.
"4241. The court may, however, enlarge the time for pleading, upon application of either party, in proper cases, or
excuse the failure to plead within the time prescribed, upon
good cause shown." 2 Thompson and Steger's Tenn. Stats.
1871, p. 1714 et seq.; Milliken and Vertrees' Code of Tenn.
-1884, p. 949; in which edition of the code the sections are
numbered respectively 5010, 5011, 5012 and 5013.
The declaration was filed on the first day of the term to
which the writ was returnable, and the defendants' pleas were
due during that week. Upon the 25th of September the Kansas City, Memphis and Birmingham Railroad Company filed
its plea of the general issue. The Circuit Court of Shelby
County had five regular terms,,' commencing on the third
Mondays in January, March, May, September and November
-of each year." Acts -Tenn. 1883, p. 257; Milliken and Vertrees' Code, ยง 129, p. 49.
On the 29th of May, 1889, after the lapse of four terms, the
Kansas City, Fort Scott and Memphis Railroad Company filed

KANISAS CITY RAILROAD v. DAUGHTRY.
Opinion of the Court.

its petition and bond for the removal of the suit to'the Circuit
Court of the United States, for the Western District of Tennessee. This petition commenced: "Comes your petitioner,
the Kansas City, Fort Scott and Memphis Railroad Company,
and shows to the court" that the matter in dispute, exclusive
of interest and costs, exceeds the sum or value of 82000 ; "that
the controversy in said suit is between citizens of different
States; that your petitioner, the Kansas City, Fort Scott and
Memphis Railroad Company, was at the time when this suit
was commenced and still is a corporation created and existing
under and by virtue of the laws of the States of Missouri,
Arkansas and Kansas and was and still is a citizen of said
States; that the plaintiff, R. S. Daughtry, administrator, was
at the beginning of this suit and still is a citizen and resident
of the State of Tennessee;" that there is in. the suit a controversy Wholly between the administrator and the petitioner,
which can be fully determined as between them without the
presence of petitioner's co-defendant; "that its said co-defendant, the Kansas City, Memphis and Birmingbam Railroad
Company, is a corporation created and existing under and by
virtue of the laws of the State of Tennessee, and that it is a
citizen thereof;" that the acts alleged to have been done jointly
by petitioner and its co-defendant were, if done at all, done by
petitioner alone, and its co-defendant did not at the time, and
"does not now, and neyer did, own, possess, control or use the
said railroad track upon which said acts were done," etc.;
"that the said Kansas City, Memphis and Birmingham Railroad Company has been joined in this action as a -nominal
party defendant for the sole purpose of preventing your petitioner from removing this case to the Circuit Court of the
United States."
Upon the first of June, 1889, the affidavit of Daughtry, the
administrator, was filed, stating "that he is a citizen of the
State of Arkansas and has been a citizen of said State for
the last ten years; that all beneficiaries in said suit are also
citizens of the State of Arkansas and have been for the last
ten years." On that day the state circuit court entered this
order:

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

"This day the defendant, the Kansas City, Fort Scott and
Memphis Railroad Co., presented to the court its petition and
bond to remove this case to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western Division of the Western District of
Tennessee, which was filed herein on May 29th, 1889; and
the court, having duly considered said petition, together with
the affidavit of R. S. Daughtry filed herein June 1st, 1889,
and heard argument of counsel, is of the opinion that upon
said petition and affidavit said defendant is not entitled to the
order of removal prayed in its said petition, and its application
in that behalf is denied and said defendant is allowed one day
to plead to the merits; to all of which t&ie said Kansas City,
Fort Scott and Memphis Railroad Company, by its attorney,
excepts and asks that its exceptions be noted of record, which
is accordingly done."
Thereupon, on the 6th day of June, the cause came on for
trial before a jury duly empanelled, and on the 7th was dismissed by plaintiff as against the Kansas City, Memphis and
Birmingham Railroad Company. Ferdict and judgment then
passed in favor of the plaintiff and against the Kansas City,
Fort Scott and Memphis F-ailroad Company, whereupon the
latter took the cause by appeal to the Supreme Court of Tennessee, where, among other errors assigned, was one that "it
was error to refuse to order the case removed to the Circuit
Court of the United States." The judgment of the circuit
court of Shelby County was affirmed by the Supreme Court
of Tennessee, which, as to the question of removal, referred
to the case of Railway Companies v. lendriks, Adm' , just

disposed of by it, as governing that question. Both cases are
reported in 88 Tennessee (4 Pickle) 710, 721. The cause was
brought to this court by writ of error, and a motion to dismiss
or affirm has been made by the. defendant in error.
The Supreme Court of Tennessee was of opinion that it
was competent for the state circuit court to pass upon the
issue of fact made by the affidavit of Daughtry upon the
statement in the petition in regard to his citizenship, and to
retain the suit, because on that issue the railroad company had
not shown that he was a citizen of Tennessee; but it is thor-

KANSAS CITY RAILROAD v. DAUGHTRY.
Opinion of the Court.

oughly settled that issues 'of fact raised upon petitions for
removal must be tried in the Circuit Court of the United
States. Crehore v. Ohio & .issi8&8ppi Railway, 131 U. S.
240; Burlington, Cedar RBaidg &o. Railway v. .Dunn, 122
U. S. 513 ; Carson v. Hyatt, 118 U. S. 279. In Louisville &
-NashvilleRailroad v. lfangelin, 132 U. S. 599,, the case came
before us on a writ of error, bringing under review the judgment of the Circuit Court remanding the cause to the state
court, and the language of the opinion has no relation to the
action of the latter court.
It is true that the petition was not verified, contrary to
good practice, and that Daughtry's affidavit was explicit, so
that if the record had been filed in the Circuit Court, the cause
would, as it then stood, have been remanded, but this would
not justify the state court in acting upon the facts, though it
arrived at the same result. If, however, the denial -of the
application was right as matter of law, the judgment should
not be reversed. And it is apparent that if the service of
process upon the defendant was sufficient, a plea was required
from it at the Septembe term, 1888, and that its application
for removal came too late, for section 3 of the act of Congress
of March 3, 1887, as corrected by the act of August 13, 1888,
provides that the party desiring to remove must file his petition "at the time, or any time before the defendant is required
by the laws of the State or the rule of the state court in
which such suit is brought to answer or plead to the declaration or complaint of the plaintiff." 24 Stat. c. 373, p. 554; 25
Stat. c. 866, p. 435.
The statute is imperative that the application to remove
must be made when the plea is due, and because a plaintiff in
error does not take advantage of his right to take judgment
by default, it cannot be properly held that he thereby extends
the time for removal. The lapse of four terms before the
petition was filed dispenses with -argument on this question, if
the petitioner was properly in court.
The law of Tennessee relating to service of process on cor
porations is embraced in the following section:
"2831. Service of process on the president or other head of

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

a corporation, or, in his absence, on the cashier, treasurer, or
secretary, or in the absence of such officers, on any director of
such corporation, shall be sufficient.
"2832. If neither the president, cashier, treasurer or secretary resides within the State, service on the chief agent of the
corporation, residing at the time in the county where the action
is brought, shall be deemed sufficient.
"2833. If the action is commenced in the cDunty in which
the corporation keeps its chief office, the process may be
served on any one of the foregoing officers, in the absence of
those named before him.
"2831. When a corporation, company, or individual has an
office or agency in any county other than that in which the
principal resides, the service of process may be made on any
agent or clerk employed therein, in all actions growing out of
or connected with the business of the office or agency.
"2834a. That sections 2831, 2832, 2833, 283d: be so amended,
that hereafter when a corporation, company or individual has
an officer or agency, or resident director in any county other
than that in which the chief officer or principal resides, the
service of process may be made on any agent or clerk employed therein in all actions brought against said company
growing out of the business of, or connected with said company
or principal's business. Act 1859-1860, c. 89, sec. 1.
"2834b. The provisions of this act shall only apply to cases
where the action is brought in such counties as such agency,
resident director, or office is located." Ib.sec. 2. 2 Thompson and Steger's Stats. Tenn. 1871, pp. 1190, 1191 ; Milliken and
Yertrees' Code Tenn. p. 660. In this edition of the code these
sections are numbered respectively 3536-3539.
On the 29th of March, 1887, an act was passed by the legislature of Tennessee, entitled "An act to subject foreign corporations to suit in this State," (Acts 1887, p. 386,) which
defendant in error contends should control here; but in TeleP1one Co. v. Turner, 88 Tennessee (4 Pickle) 265, it was held
thatthis act did not apply to foreign corporations having an
office and resident agent in the. State, and already subject
to suit, but only to such foreign corporations as engaged in

KANSAS CITY RAILROAD v. DAUGHTRY.
Opinion of the Court.

business in the State without such office and agent; that it
was not a limitation but an enlargement of the jurisdiction
over foreign corporations; and that sections 2831, 2832, 2833
and 2834 of the code regulated the mode in which corporations
might be sued, and applied equally to domestic and foreign
corporations having an office or agency and a resident local
agent in the county in which suit was brought. We perceive
no reason for declining to accept the conclusions of the Supreme
Court of the State upon this subject, and the act of 1887 need
not, therefore, be considered.
From the summons it appeared that the two defendants
were railroad corporations conducting business in Shelby
County, Tennessee, with offices and agencies in that county
and State; from the petition for remoVal that the petitioner
was a citizen of the States of Missouri, Arkansas, and Kansas;
and from the return, that J. H. Sullivan, superintendent of
the petitioning railroad company, was the highest officer of
that company to be found in Shelby County.
The return, in its statement that the superintendent was the
highest officer of the company to be found in the county,
excluded the assumption that others were or could have been
so found, and, indeed, while there may be exceptions, officers
of a foreign corporation, of the character of president, cashier,
treasurer and secretary, do not ordinarily reside in a State of
which the corporation is not a citizen. At all events, a return
that a party is not to be found is regarded in Tennessee as
more correct than a return of not found, because indicative of
proper exertion to find him, Bill v. Hinton, 2 Head, 124;
and it has been distinctly laid down that service on the chief
agent of a corporation, residing in the county, is sufficient,
although the return does not show that the president or other
head of the corporation, or the cashier, treasurer, secretary or
director thereof, were absent or non-resident, and that "the
presumption in all such cases, is, that until the contrary is
made to appear, the sheriff has done his duty, and has served
the process upon the proper party."
Fa rtrace v. Wartnace
&o. Turnpike Co., 2 Coldwell, 515.
At common law, service was made on such head officer of a
VOL. cxvxvn-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

corporation as secured knowledge of the process to the corporation, and,the provisions of this statute seem constructed ex
-industriato increase the number of officers or agents, service
upon either of whom would be sufficient. In view of the State
legislation and decisions, service upon the highest officer of
the corporation to be found in the county, and, that officer the
-superintendent there, was within the spirit of the rule and the
intent and meaning of the statute.
The petition for removal did not question the sufficiency of
service, and the state court apparently assumed it to be sufficient, for it allowed but one day to plead to the merits.
Under all the circuijastances, we hold that the application
came too late, and the judgment is, therefore,
AA4-md.

AMS v.

OIOIR.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 1404. Submitted January 12, 1891. -Decided

February 2, 1891.

"Fraud" in the act of Congress, defining the debts from which a bankrupt
is not relieved by a discharge in bankruptcy, means positive fraud, or
-fraud in fact, involving moral turpitude or intentional wrong: citing
and affirming previous decisions to the same point.
A. purchased a lot of high-wines, to be delivered to im upon call, between
certain dates, and to be paid for on each delivery at a named price per
gallon. He made the call at a time when he knew himself to be insol-vent, and with the intent to get possession of the wines and convert
them to his own use without paying for them. They were delivered at
his place of business pursuant to the call, and he shipped part and
attempted to ship the balance, without paying for them; Held, that,
within the meaning of the statute, the debt, in respect of the wines, was
not created until the wines were delivered at his place of business under
the call, or, at least, until he took possession of them without paying for them, and with the intent not to pay for them.

THE

case, as stated by the court, was as follows:

Wilson Ames, the plaintiff in error, a rectifier and wholesale dealer in whiskies and high-wines in the city of Chicago,

