OCTOBER TER3,

1869,

Syllabus.

1873, several years after the official map of the township had
been filed in the local land office at Stockton and in the general land office at Washington, and the issue of a patent by
the State of California to the defendant Kile, and the passage
of the act of Congress. Whether the township plat be considered as approved by the action of the surveyor general or
by the subsequent recognition of its correctness by the commissioner of the general land office, when approved, the
duty of the commissioner to certify over to the State the
lands represented thereon as swamp and overflowed was
purely ministerial. He could not defeat the title of the State
by withholding such certificate, nor could he add to the title
by giving it. Its only effect would have been to facilitate the
proof of the vesting of the title in the State by its additional
recognition of the land as that covered by the congressional
grant of 1850. It would not have added to the completeness
of the title. A strange thing it would b- if the refusal of an
officer of the government to discharge a ministerial duty could
defeat a title granted by an act of Congress, and enable him
to transfer it to parties not within the contemplation of the
government. The judgment of the court below must, therefore, be affirmed.
As to the alleged inadvertence in the entry of judgment in
favor of the defendant for rents and profits, we have only to
say that if there be any such inadvertence, it is not a matter
for revision by this court, but only for consideration by the
court below.
Judgment afflrmed.

WIITEHEAD v. SHATTUCK.
APPEAT

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UIITED

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 128. Argued and submitted January 6,1891. - Decided January 26,1891.

The bill alleged that the plaintiff was the owner in fee of the premises, but
held the title as trustee; that notwithstanding his ownership of the
property and his right to its immediate possession and enjoyment, the

WHITEHEAD v. SHATTUCK.
Statement of the Case.
defendants claimed title to it and were in its possession, holding the
same openly and adversely to him; that their claim of title was without
foundation in law or equity; and that it was made in fraud of the rights
of the plaintiff. To this bill the defendants demurred, on the ground,
among others, that it appeared from it that the plaintiff had a plain,
speedy and adequate remedy at law, by ejectment, to recover the real
property described, and that it showed no ground for equitable relief.
The demurrer was sustained. Held, that the ruling of the court below
was right.
When the right set up by the plaintiff is a title to real estate, and the remedy
sought is its possession and enjoyment, that remedy should be sought at
law, where both parties have a constitutional right to call for a jury.
The provision in the Code of Iowa that " an action to determine and quiet
the title to real property may be brought by any one having or claiming
an interest therein, whether in or out of possession of the same, against
any person claiming title thereto, though not in possession," although
construed by the courts of that State as authorizing a suit in equity to
recover possession of real estate from the occupant in possession of it,
does not enlarge the equity jurisdiction of federal courts in that State,
so as to give them jurisdiction over a suit in equity in a case where a
plain, adequate and complete remedy may be had at law.
Holland v. ChaZlen, 110 U. S. 15, explained and distinguished from this case.

THIs was a suit in equity to quiet the title of the plaintiff,
as trustee of the Des Moines and Fort Dodge Railroad Company, a corporation of Iowa, to certain real property in the
county of Humboldt in that State, of the value of five thousand dollars.
The bill alleged that the plaintiff was the owner in fee of
the premises, but held the title as trustee aforesaid; that notwithstanding his ownership of the property and his right
to its immediate possession and enjoyment, the defendants
claimed title to it and were in its possession, holding the same
openly and adversely to him; that their claim of title and
right of possession was founded upon a preemption and homestead claim, and entry thereunder, made in the United States
land office, a certificate of such entry given by that office, and
a patent issued by the Land Department of the United States
of the land as subject to entry; and also upon a subsequent
deed of the Iowa Homestead Company, the grantee of the
Dubuque and Sioux City Railroad Company, which latter
company claimed title under the act of Congress of May, 1856,

OCTOBER TERIM, 1890.
Argument for Appellant.

making a grant of land to Iowa tQ aid in the construction of
certain railroadsin that State, and a certificate of the proper
officer of the Land Department of the United States setting
apart the lands to that company as a portion of the grant.
The bill charged that the claim and pretended title of the
defendants were without foundation in law or equity; that
they were made in fraud of the iights of the plaintiff; that
the preemption and homestead claim, and entry thereunder,
and the certificate of entry of the land office, and the patent
of the United States, were fraudulently made, giving as a
reason therefor that the land thus entered and patented was
not at the time subject to entry and patent, and that the deed
of the Iowa Homestead Company conveyed no title, for the
reason alleged that the land was no part of the grant to the
State; and that these evidences of title were procured without
legal right and in violation of law, but were clouds upon the
plaintiff's title, and interfered with and prevented the sale of his
property. He therefore prayed that the certificate of entry,
and the patent of the land, and the certificate of the Land
Department that the land was a part of the grant to the State
of Iowa, and the deed of the Homestead Company, might be
annulled and cancelled, and the cloud upon his title caused
thereby removed, and the title to the premises be established
and quieted in him.
To the bill the defendants demurred, on the ground, among
others, that it appeared from it that the plaintiff had a plain,
speedy and adequate remedy at law, by ejectment, to recover
the real property described, and that it showed no ground for
equitable relief. The demurrer was sustained by the court
below, and a decree entered dismissing the -bill. From this
decree the plaintiff appealed to this court.
.M . J.-F. Duncombe for appellant.
The Iowa statute under which this suit is brought, gives the
right to bring an action "to determine and quiet the title of
real property," "whether in or out of possession," to "any
one having or claiming an interest" in real property.

WHITEHEAD v. SHATTUCK
Argument for Appellant.

The case of Zewis v. Soule, 52 Iowa, 11, holds that an action
to quiet title to real property may be brought against a person
in the possession thereof, under this statute, "in all cases
where the defendant makes some claim adverse to the estate
of plaintiff." The defendants claimed to be the owners, and
that the court held to be sufficient.. The same doctrine is
held in Zees v. Wetmore, 58Iowa, 170; and in Wyland v. Mendell, 78 Iowa, 739. This is our case precisely, passed uipon by
the Iowa courts.
In the case of Holland v. Challem, 110 U. S. 15, the court
construed the statute of the State of Nebraska, which reads as
follows: "That an action may be brought and prosecuted to
final decree or order, by any person or persons, whether in
actual possession or not, claiming title to real estate, against
any person or persons who claim an adverse estate or interest
therein, for the purpose of determining such estate or interest
and quieting the title to such real estate." The wording of
this statute and that of sec. 3273, Code of Iowa, is somewhat
different, but the substance and meaning of the two statutes
are the same.
In Holland v. Challen this court, as we understana it, held
that where there is a statute creating or enlarging an equitable
right, a United States Court of Equity has, jurisdiction to
enforce that right precisely the same as a court of equity
would have jurisdiction to enforce any other equitable right,
and that such "equitable rights may be administered by the
Circuit Courts of the United States as well as by the courts
of the State."
Now does our Iowa statute enlarge the equitable right to
have one's title quieted in an action in chancery so as to
include a case where the complainant is not in possession and
the defendant is in possession, claiming title adverse to complainant? Fortunately the Supreme Court of the United
States has answered that question in Reynolds v. Crawfordsville First Zational Bank, 112 U. S.405. That was a bill in
equity to quiet title and restrain waste filed by the bank
against the appellant, Reynolds. The prayer of the bill was
for a decree quieting the title of the bank in the property and

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion: of the Court.

enjoining waste by Reynolds. A decree was entered quieting
complainant's title and declaring the deed to Reynolds void this being the deed complained of in the bill of complaint
under which he claimed title. Reynolds appealed. The Supreme Court affirmed the decree.
These cases certainly hold that the United States courts
will enforce these same equitable rights given by a state statute, when, by the decisions of the state court construing such
a statute, complainant avers sufficient in his bill to give him
the right in the state courts, to maintain an equitable action;
which has been done in this case.

.21'. Charles A. Clark for appellees.
MR.

JusTicE FIELD,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The facts set forth in the bill of the plaintiff clearly show
that )he has a plain, adequate and complete remedy at law for
the injuries of whiph he complains. He alleges that he is the
owner in fee, as trustee, of certain described lands in Iowa,
and his injuries consist in this: that the defendants are in the
possession and enjoyment of the property, claiming title under
certain documents purporting to transfer the same, which are
fraudulent and void. If the owner in fee of the premises, he
can establish that fact in an action at law; and if the evidences of the defendants' asserted title are fraudulent and void,
that fact he can also show. There is no occasion"for resort to
a court of equity, either to establish his right to the land or to
put him in possession thereof.
The sixteenth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789,1 Stat. 82,
c. 20, declared "t t h at suits in equity shall not be sustained in
either of the courts of the United States, in any case where
plain, adequate and complete remedy may be had 'at law,"
and this provision has been carried into the Revised Statutes,
in section 723. The provision is merely declaratory, making no
alteration whatever in the rules of equity on the subject of
legal remedies, but only expressive of the law which has governed proceedings in equity ever since their adoption in the

WHITEHEAD v. SHATTUCK.
Opinion of the Court.

courts of England. The term "speedy" as used in the demurrer is embraced by the term ' complete" in the statute.
The Seventh Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States declares that "in suits at common law, where the value
in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial
by jury shall be preserved." That provision would be defeated
if an action at law could be tried by a court of equity, as in
the latter court a jury can only be summoned at its discretion,
to ascertain special facts for its enlightenment. lewi, v.
Cocks, 23 Wall. 466, 470; Hillian v. EBbinghaus, 110 U. S.
568, 573 ; Buzard v. Houston, 119 U. S. 34,7,.351. And so it
has been held by this court "that whenever a court of law is
competent to take cognizance of a right, and has power to
proceed to a judgment which affords a.plain, adequate and
complete remedy, without the aid of a court of equity, the
plaintiff must proceed at law, because the defendant has a.
constitutional right to a trial by jury." Hipp v. Babin, 19
How. 271, 278.
It would be difficult, and perhaps impossible, to state any
general rule which would determine, in all cases, what should
be deemed a suit in equity as distinguished from an action at
law, for particular elements may enter into consideration which.
would take the matter from one court to the other ; but this
may be said, that, where an action is simply for the recovery
and possession of specific real or personal property, or for theG
recovery of a money judgment, the action is one at law. An
action for the recovery of real property, including damages
for withholding it, has always been of that class. The right
which in thi§ case the plaintiff wishes to assert is his title to
certain real property; the remedy which he wishes to obtain
is its possession and enjoyment; and in a contest over the title
both parties have a constitutional right to call for a jury.
What we have thus said will be sufficient to dispose of this
case; but some consideration is due to the arguments of counsel founded upon the statutes of Iowa, and the principle supposed to have been established by this court in the decision of
the case of Holland v. Challen, 110 U. S. 15, upon which the
plaintiff relies.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The Code of Iowa enacts thaN' an action to determine and
quiet the title to real property may be brought by any one
having or claiming an interest therein, whether in or out of
possession of the same, against any person claiming title
thereto, though not in possession," implying that the action
may be brought against one in possession of the property.
And such has been the construction of the provision by the
courts of that State. Lewis v. Soule, 52 Iowa, 11; Lees v. Wetmore, 58 Iowa, 170. If that be its meaning, an action like the
present can be maintained in the courts of that State, where
equitable and legal remedies are enforced by the same system
of procedure, and by the same tribunals. It thus enlarges the
powers of a court of equity, as exercised in the state courts;
but the law of that State cannot contrbl the proceedings in
the federal courts, so as to do away with the force of the law
of Congress declaring that "suits in equity shall not be ustained in either of the courts of the United States, in any case
where a plain, adequate and complete remedy may be had at
law," or the constitutional right of parties in actions at law to
a trial by a jury.
The State, it is true, may create new rights and prescribe
the remedies for enforcing them, and, if those remedies are
substantially consistent with the ordinafy modes of proceeding
in equity, there is no reason why they should not be enforced
in the courts of the United States, and such we understand to
be the effect of the decision in Clark v.Smith, 13 Pet. 195, and
In 2,e Broderiek's Will, 21 Wall. 503.
In Holland v. (iallen,110 U. S.15, a bill was filed to quiet
title under a statute of Nebraska, which provided that an
action might be brought by any person, in possession or not,
claiming title to real estate, against any person who claimed
an adverse estate or interest therein, for the purpose of determining such estate or interest and quieting the title. The bill
alleged that the plaintiff was the owner in fee simple, and
entitled to the possession of the real property described. It
then set forth the origin of his title, and alleged that the
defendant claimed an adverse dstate or interest in the premises,
and that this claim so affected his title as to render a sale or

WHITEHEAD v. SHATTUCK.
Opinion of the Court.

other disposition of the property impossible, and disturbed
him in his right of possession. He therefore prayed that the
defendant might be required to show the nature of her adverse
estate or interest; that the title of the plaintiff might be
adjudged valid and quieted as against her and parties claiming
under her, and his right of possession assured; and that the
defendant might be decreed to have no estate in the premises
and be enjoined from in any manner injuring or hindering the
plaintiff in his title and possession. The defendant demurred
to the bill, on the ground that the plaintiff had not made or
stated such a case as entitled him to the discovery or relief
prayed. The court below sustained the demurrer, dismissed
the bill, and the case was brought to this court, where the
decree was reversed and the bill sustained.
It was urged that the title of the plaintiff to the property
had not been by prior proceedings judicially adjudged to be
valid, and that he was not in possession of the property, the
contention of Athe defendant being that, when either of these
conditions existed, a court of equity would not interpose its
authority to remove a cloud upon the title of the plaintiff and
determine his right to the possession of the property. The
court replied that "the statute of- Nebraska enlarges the class
of cases in which relief was formerly afforded by a court of
equity in quieting the title to real property. It authorizes the
institution of legal proceedings not merely in cases where a
bill of peace would lie, that is, to establish the title of the
plaintiff against numerous parties insisting upon the same
right, or to obtain repose against repeated litigation of an
unsuccessful claim by the same party; but also to prevent
future litigation respecting the property by removing existing
causes of controversy as to its title, and so embraces cases
where a bill quia tirnet to remove a cloud upon the title would
lie." p. 18.
The court then explained that a bill of peace would lie only
where the plaintiff was in possession and his right had been
successfully maintained, and that the equity of the plaintiff in
such cases arose from the protracted litigation for the possession of the property which the action of ejectment at common

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

law permitted; and that to entitle the plaintiff to relief in such
cases there must be a concurrence of three particulars -the
possession of the property by the plaintiff, the disturbance of
his possession by repeated actions at law, and the establishment of his right by successive judgments in his favor. Upon
these facts appearing, the court would interpose and grant a
perpetual injunction to quiet the possession of the plaintiff
against any further litigation from the same source. It was
also observed, that a change in the form of the action for the
recovery of real property had taken place from that which
formerly existed, and that the judgment rendered in such cases
in some states became a bar to future litigation upon the subjects determined; and that in such cases there could be no necessity of repeated adjudications at law upon the right of the plaintiff, as a preliminary to his invoking the jurisdiction of a court
of equity to quiet his possession against an asserted claim to
the property. The court also explained when a bill uia timet
would lie, and in what respect such a bill differed from a bill
of peace. It was brought, it said, not so much to put an end
to vexatious litigation respecting the property, as to prevent
future litigation, by removing existing causes of controversy
as to its title. It was designed to meet anticipated wrongs or
mischiefs, the jurisdictipn of the court being invoked because
the party feared future injury to his rights and interests. To
maintain a suit of this character, it was said, it was also generally necessary that the plaintiff should be in possession of the
property, and, except where the defendants were numerous,
that his title should have been established at law, or be founded
on undisputed evidence or long-continued possession.
The statute of Nebraska authorized a suit in either of these
classes of cases, without any reference to any previous judicial
determination of the validity of the plaintiff's right, and without any reference to his possession; and the court pointed out
the many advantages which would arise by allowing courts to
determine controversies as to the title to property, even when
neither party was in possession, referring particularly to what
is a matter of every-day observation, that many lots of land in
our cities remain unimproved because of conflicting claims to

WHITEHEAD v. SHATTUCX.
Opinion of the Court.

them, the rightful owner hesitating to place valuable improvements upon them, and others being unwilling to purchase
them, much less to erect buildings upon them, with the certainty of litigation and possible loss of the whole; and observing that what is true of lots in cities, the ownership of which
is in dispute, is equally true of large tracts of land in the country which are unoccupied and uncultivated, because of the
unwillingness of persons to take possession of such land, and
improve it in the face of a disputed claim to its ownership.
An action for ejectment, said the court, would not lie where
there is no occupant; and if no relief can be had in equity
because the party claiming ownership is not in possession, the
land must continue in its unimproved condition. It was, therefore, manifestly for the interest of the community that conflicting claims to property thus situated should be settled, so
that it might be subjected to use and improvement. It was,
said the-court, to meet cases of this character, that statutes, like
the one of Nebraska, had been passed by several States, and
there was no good reason why the right to relief against an
admitted obstruction to the cultivation, use and improvement
of lands thus situated in the States should not be enforced by
the federal courts when the controversy to which it might
give rise was between citizens of different States. All that
was thus said was applied simply to the case presented where
neither party was in possession of the property. No word
was expressed, intimating that suits of the kind could be maintained in the courts of the United States where the plaintiff
had a plain, adequate and complete remedy at law; and such
inference was specially guarded against. Said the court, "No
adequate relief to the owners of real property against the adverse claims of parties not in possession can be given by a court
of law. If the holders of such claims do not seek to enforce
them, the party in possession, or entitled to possession -the
actual owner of the fee-is helpless in the matter, unless he
can resort to a court of equity. It does not follow that by
allowing, in the federal courts, a suit for relief under the statute of Nebraska, controversies properly cognizable in a court
of law will be drawn into a court of equity. There can be no

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

controversy at law respecting the title to or right of possession
of real property, when neither of the parties is in possession.
An action at law, whether in the ancient form of ejectment, or
in the form now commonly used, will lie only against a party
in possession. Should suit be brought in the federal court,
under the Nebraska statute, against a party in possession, there
would be force in the objection that a legal controversy was
withdrawn from a court of law; but that is not this case, nor
is it of such cases we are speaking." It is thus seen that the
very case that is now before us is excepted from the operation
of the ruling in Hollandv. Challen, or at least was designedly
left open for consideration whenever similar relief was sought
where the defendant was in possession of the property.
Nor can the case of Reynolds v. NYational Bank, 112 U. S.
405, be deemed to sustain the plaintiff's contention. It was
there only held that the legislation of the State may be looked
to in order to ascertain what constitutes a cloud upon a title,
and that such cloud could be removed by a court of the United
States sitting in equity in a suit between proper parties. The
question did not arise as to whether the plaintiff had a plain,
adequate and complete remedy at law, but whether a suit to
remove the cloud mentioned would lie in a federal court.
Nothing was intended at variance with the law of Congress
excluding the jurisdiction of a court of equity where there is
such a full remedy at law, or in conflict with the constitutional
guaranty of the right of either party to a trial by jury in such
cases. In Frost v. Spitley, 121 U. S. 552, 557, subsequently
decided, the court referred to Holland v. Cliallem as authorizing a bill in equity to quiet title in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Nebraska by a person not in
possession, "if the controversy is one in which a court of equity
alone can afford the relief prayed for," recognizing that the
decision in that case went only to that extent.
Judgment aflrmed.

