UPSHUR v. BRISCOE.
Statement of the Case.

the proposed witnesses seems to have been of little importance,
and the application was to subpoena these witnesses at the
expense of the government, which would of itself have been
a matter of discretion, even had the application been made
before the trial began. Rev. Stat. § 878. It is clear that the
ruling of the court is not subject to review. Silsby v. Foote,
14 How. 218; Cook v. Burnley, 11 Wall. 672, 676.
There is no error in the proceedings in the court below, and
.Aflrmed.
the judgment must be

UPSHUR v. BRISCOE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 146.

Submitted January 12, 1891.-

Decided February 2, 1891.

The cases reviewed on the question of what are debts created by a bankrupt while acting in a fiduciary, character, so as not. to be discharged,
under § 33 of the bankruptcy at of March 2, 1867, c. 176 (14 Stat. 533).
The obligation in the present case held to have been discharged.
A debt is not created by a person while acting in a "1fiduciary character"
merely because it is created under circumstances in which trust or confidence is reposed in the debtor, in the popular sense of those terms.
In this case it was held that the widow of the bankrupt, who was alleged
to be a fraudulent grantee, was entitled to the benefit of his discharge,
she having pleaded it.

ON the 25th of January, 1857, James Andrews, of the par.
ish of Tensas, in the State of Louisiana, executed and delivered
to William J. Briscoe, also of said parish and State, the following instrument in writing:
"James Andrews
to
"Annie K. Andrews.

Donation.

"STATE OF L UISIA.A,

"Pariah of Tenszs.
"Know all.men by these presents'that I, James Aidrews,
of said parish and State, do p6mmate, constitute and, appoint
William J...Briscoe, also of said parish and State, my true and

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

lawful attorney for me and in my name to pay or cause to be
paid to Annie M. Andrews the sum of seven hundred dollars
($700) annually, said amount to be paid at the counting-house
of some commission merchant, or at some banking-house, in
the city of New Orleans, in equal quarterly instalments of one
hundred and seventy-five dollars -each, said commission or
banking-house to be named and specified before the day of
payment, by the said W. J. Briscoe to the said Annie Mf.
Andrews. The said payments are to be made commencing
with the date of this instrument, and continuing during the
natural life of the said Annie M. Andrews, subject to the conditions and restrictions hereinafter enumerated, viz.: The payments are to be regularly made as above set forth, according
to the discretion of the said William J. Briscoe of the general
good conduct of the said Annie M. Andrews, which conduct
must in all respects comport with the character and bearing
of a discreet, prudent female.
"The said William J. Briscoe, being here present, accepts
this appointment and trust, and binds himself to carry out the
provisions of the same according to its true intent and meaning; and I do further constitute and appoint the said William
J. Briscoe my attorney-in-fact to have and receive the sum of
ten thousand dollars ($10,000), to be held by him for the
benefit of the said Annie -M.Andrews, subject to the conditions hereinafter enumerated, viz. : It is understood that the
annual payment of seven hundred dollars, as above secured,
shall be considered as interest upon said amount*of ten thousand dollars; and, first, it is provided that in case the. said
Annie M. Andrews shall herea'fter marry and leave issue, this
amount of ten thousand dollars shall remain invested as heretofore in the hands of said William 5. Briscoe,' and the interest shall continue to be paid as heretofore mentioned, and, in
case of the death of the said Annie. M. Andrews, such children, legal issue bf her, shall become possessed of the above
amount of ten thousand dollars unconditionally in full pos,session, to be-paid by the said William J. Briscoe.
"Second. It is provided, that in case of my death occuririug before that of the said Annie, the above amount of ten

UPSHUR v. BRISCOE.
Statement of the Case.

thousand dollars shall be placed unconditionally in her hands

4by the said William J. Briscoe, provided only she shall have
no legal issue. In case, however, she shall, at the time of my
death, have any child or children, legal issue of her body, that
the provisions heretofore enumerated shall be strictly adhered
to;
"And, third, It is provided that, in case of the death of the
said Annie M. Andrews without legal issue of her body surviving, then the above sum of ten thousand dollars shall revert
to me, my heirs or assigns.
"This done and signed, at St. Joseph, in said parish and
State, this 25th day of January, A.D. 1857, in presence of Geo.
W. Williams and Edgar D. Farrar, competent witnesses.
"9JAm~s ANDEws.
"G. W.

WILLIAMS.

"E.-D. FARR."
On the same day, and on the same paper, Briscoe signed
the following instrument:
"And now to these presents'also comes William J. Briscoe,
-who accepts this mandate in all its clauses, and binds himself
faithfully to carry the same into effect, and the more effectually to secure the faithful performance of the same he also
binds himself as surey for the said James Andrews, that the
within mandate and all the stipulations therein contained shall
be well and faithfully executed, and that the same shall be
complied with in all its clauses.
"Thus done and si gned, at St. Joseph, on the 25th of January, A.D. 1857, in the presence of G. W. Williams and Edgar
D. Farrar.
W. J. BRISco,.
"Witnesses:
"G. W. WILIAMs.
"E. D. FARAR-"
Annf NM. Andrews, named in the paper signed by James
Andrews, at the same time and place signed the following.
instrument:

OCTOBER TERM. 1890.
Statement of the Case.

"And at the same time and place also came the said Annie M.
Andrews, who hereby declares that she accepts the above in all
its parts and clauses, ratifying and accepting the said appointment of the said William J. Briscoe as her trustee, and binding
herself to confirm and abide by the above mandate in all its
provisions.
"Thus done and signed, at St. Joseph, on the 26th of January, A.D. 1857, in presence of Geo. W. Williams and Edgar
D. Farrar.
"Witnesses:
Aw= M. ANDREWS.
"G. W. WIu
S.
"E. b. FARA."

On the 18th of February, 185*7, these papers were all of
them recorded in the office of the recorder of the parish, in ,a
"Book of wills and donations.
On the 1st of August, 1881, Annie M. Andrews, who had
become by marriage Annie MN.
Upshur, and whose husband
had died, and her son, James A. Upshur, an adult, filed their
petition in the Ninth District Court for the parish of Tensas,
Louisiana, against Mary E. Castleman, widow of William J.
Briscoe, who had died about September, 1880, intestate, and
his three daughters and heirs-at-law and legal representatives,
Mrs. Elizabeth Clinton, Mrs. Frances Chamberlain and- Mrs.
Betty Scott Goldman and their respective husbands. The
petition set forth the three instruments signed, respectively,
by James Andrews, W. J. Briscoe and Annie M. Andrews,
and averred as follows: William'J. Briscoe received from
James Andrews the sum of $10,000, and paid to the female
plaintiff annually.$700, until about January, 1861. On February 26, 1866, Briscoe, to secure the payment of his five promissory notes for $10,000O each, given for borrowed money,
mortgaged 'to Given, Watts & Co., of New Orleans; all the
property owned by him, consisting of a cotton plantation in
the.,parish of Tensas, kuown as the Mound'plantation, embracing 4351 acres, with all the growing crops, buildings, household furniture, machinery, corn, stock, fodder, hay, and all
other appurtenances. On November 29, 1866, he intermarried

UPSHUR v. BRISCOE.
Statement of the Case.

with the defendant, Mary E. Castleman. On January 14,
1868, Mrs. Mildred Gregory, as holder 6f three of the five
notes secured by said mortgage, instituted suit thereon against
Briscoe, and on March 7, 1868, caused the property described
in it to be adjudicated to her for $20,000. On April 1, 1868,
Briscoe was adjudged a bankrupt, and was duly discharged
December 19, 1868. The petition states 'that duly certified
copies of the proceedings in bankruptcy are annexed to it, but
they are not found in the record. On "-November 13, 1868,
the defendant Mary E. Castleman instituted suit against her
husband, Briscoe, for a separation of property, and a judgment was entered on the same day decreeing her to be separate
in property from her husband, and dissolving the .cdmmunity
of acquests and gains between them. On December 12, 1868,
Mrs. Mildred Gregory, for the consideration of $4517.82 in
cash and $25,000 in notes, conveyed to Mary E. Castleman
the Mound plantation, together with all the growing crops,
stock, material and other property acquired by her at the
sheriff's sale. Briscoe at his death left no other property.
The female plaintiff was married in July, 1858, and the other
plaintiff, the sole issue of such marriage, was born in 1859.
James Andrews died about January, 1860, and by the terms
of the constitution of mandate, the female plaintiff then having one child, the said sum of $10,000 was to remain invested
in the hands of Briscoe, the interest to continue to be paid to
her; but she had not received from Briscoe any part of the
principal, hor any part of the stipulated interest since about
April, 1867, and there is now due to the plaintiffs, to be paid
from the property and effects of Briscoe, wherever found, the
sum of $10,000, with arrears of interest at the rate of $700
per year since January 1, 1861, less the sum of about $700
paid abdut. April, 1867, with legal interest on the stipulated
annual payments of $700, from January 1 of each year, from
the year 1862, inclusive. The conveyance of the property by
Mrs. Mildred Gregory to Mary E. Castleman, December 12,
1868, was a fraudulent simulation, contrived and intended by
Briscoe to defraud the plaintiffs and to defeat the execution
of the trust, and Mary E. Castleman received the title of the
VOL. cxxxvm-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

property for the use of Briscoe, who paid the consideration
expressed therefor and continued in possession of the property.
He procured Mrs. Mildred Gregory, a preferred creditor, to
provoke the seizure and sale of all his property and accept the
adjudication thereof, and he then made a surrender in bankruptcy, and was adjudicated a bankrupt and discharged. He
then procured: Mary E. Castleman to obtain the judgment of
separation, and Mrs. Mildred Gregory to convey the entire
property to her. Briscoe, up to the time of his death, retained
the exclusive control of the property and of the business
relating to it, and himself paid to Mrs. Gregory the said sum
of $1517.82, from the proceeds of the crops of 1868. The
plaintiffs very recently, for the first time, have been informed
*that Briscoe procured the conveyance of the property to Mary
R. Castleman with the intent to defraud them and prevent the
.enforcement of the trust. The prayer of the petition is, that
the-defendants pay to the plaintiffs the sum of $10,000, with
7 per cent per annum interest from January 1, 1861, less the
sum of $700 paid about April 1, 1867, with 5 per cent per
annum interest on each annual payment of $700, from "January 1 of each year, from the year 1862, inclusive; that the
conveyance of December 12, 1868, be declared simulated and
fraudulent, and the property be declared to be the property
of the estate of Briscoe and subject to the payment of his
debts and obligations; and for general relief.
Mary E. Castleman, by the name of Mary E. Briscoe, filed
exceptions to the petition, also an answer, which set up as a
defence the discharge of Briscoe in bankruptcy, with other
defences. Mrs. Goldman and her husband answered the petition, but did not set up the discharge in bankruptcy.
In November, 1882, the plaintiffs filed an amendment to
their original petition, adding further allegations intended to
show that the transfer of the property from Briscoe to his
wife was void; that at least one undivided half of it belonged
to his succession, subject to a settlement of the community
between him and his wife; and that the pretended judgment
of, separation was a nullity.
Mary E1 Briscoe (now Mary E. Castleman) answered the

UPSHUR v. BRISOOE.

.3171

Statement of the Case.

amended petition, and reaffirmed all the averments of hei
original answer. She also pleaded a prescription of five years.
Mrs. Goldman and her husband, for answer to the amended
petition, adopted all the allegations of their original answer,
but did not plead the discharge in bankruptcy. Mrs. Clinton
and her husband and Mrs. Chamberlain and her husband answered the petition and amended petition, but did not set up
the discharge in bankruptcy.
•The case ws tried by the District Court, which entered a
judgment in favor of Mary E. Briscoe, and adjudged a recovery in favor of the plaintiffs against the heirs of Briscoe, for
$700 annually from January 1, 1872, with 5 per cent interest, as claimed, and costs, restricting the judgment as to those
sums to the property and effects of the succession of Briscoe,
wherever found, reserving the right to his heirs to renounce
or accept the succession, with the benefit of inventory thereafter, and rejecting the demand of the plaintiffs for $10,000,
set out in the petition, as premature in respect to the heirs of
Briscoe.
The plaintiffs appealed from this judgment to the Supreme
Court of Louisiana. The opinion of that court was given May
19, 18S4, by Mr. Justice Manning, and is reported in 37 La.
Ann. 138. It considered the question whether the obligation
assumed by Briscoe was fiduciary, within the meaning of section 33 of the bankruptcy act of March 2, 1867, c. 176, (14.
Stat. 533,) which is the statute applicable to the present case,
and reads as follows: "That no debt created by the fraud or
embezzlement of the bankrupt, or by his defaldation as a public officer, or while acting in any fiduciary character, shall be
discharged under this act; but the debt may be proved, and
the dividend thereon shall be a payment on account of said
debt; and no discharge granted under this act shall release,
discharge, or affect any person liable for the same debt for Qr
with the bankrupt, eithet as partner, joint contractor, indotger,
surety or otherwise." The court arrived at the conclusion that
the instrument signed by Andrews created a trust; that the
debt of Briscoe to the plaintiffs was a debt created by him
while acting in a fiduciary character, within the meaning of

OCTOBER TERI,

1890.

Statement of the Case.

section 33; and that his discharge in bankruptcy did not affect
his liability for the obligation which he assumed.
On the same day, the court entered a judgment reversing
the judgment of the District Court in these particulars : "That
instead of rejecting the, plaintiffs' demand the same is maintained, and the sales and conveyances by which Mildred
Gregory received title to the Mound plantation and its appurtenances from the sheriff, and by which she afterwards conveyed title to Mary E. Briscoe, are annulled, cancelled and
set aside, and the property thus conveyed is declared to belong
to the succession of William J. Briscoe, and'to be liable to
plaintiffs herein for th-e satisfaction of this judgment ;" that
the plaintiffs recover of the succession of Briscoe $700, with
5 per cent interest thereon from January !, 1872, and the
same sum with the same interest from January 1 of each succeeding year until paid, and the further sum of $10,000, and
costs of suit; and that in other respects the judgment be
affirmed. Five days afterwards the heirs of Briscoe applied
for a rehearing, which was granted, and the case was argued
orally in November, 1884.
On the 16th of March, 1885, the court filed an opinion, delivered by Mr. Justice Fenner, reported in 37 La. Ann. 148,
and concurred in by- Mr. Justice Manning in a separate opinion, 37 La. Ann. 154. The court held, in regard to the discharge
in bankruptcy, that the decision of this court in Henneyuin v.
Clews, 111 U. 'S. 676, made since the original opinion and

judgment, had altered its conclusions as to the effect of such
discharge. It also cited the cases of CMapman v. Forsyth, 2
:How. 202, -Yeal v. Clark', 95 U. S. 704, and WToof v. Stix, 99
U. S. 1, as showing that its former conclusion was erroneous;
and held that the debt: of Briscoe was not created by him
while acting in a fiduciary character. The views it announced
were as follows: "Andrews delivered to Briscoe $10,000,.for
which Briscoe obligated himself to pay seven per cent interest
annually. This interest was to be paid to Annie .M.Andrews,
during her life or that of Briscoe, with the discretion, however,
of withholding it from her in case of her improper deportment.
But the obligation to pay the interest was, nevertheless, abso-

UPSHUR v. BRISCOE.
Statement of the Case.

lute and unconditional, and if he judged Annie M. Andrews
unworthy to receive it, it would have remained as a debt due
to the ultimate beneficiary of the capital. This is apparent
from the absence of any indication of a purpose to let Briscoe
have the use of the money without interest, and from the incongruity of construing otherwise the discretion confided to
him of judging of her worthiness to receive it; for if, by deciding against the propriety of her conduct, he could absolve
himself from the obligation of paying the interest at all, it
would create an antagonism between his duty and his interest,
which could find no support in a rational interpretation of the
writing. Therefore, we say, he was absolutely and unconditionally bound to pay interest on the money as long as he held it.
This, unquestionably, implied the right to use the money, and
to use it as his own; for no authority is given to make particular investments of it for account of the beneficiary, and such
investments would have been at his own exclusive risk; and
if unfortunate, however prudently made, they would have furnished him no excuse for non-payment of either principal or
interest. It imposed the further obligation of returning the
$10,000 (together, as we have shown, with any unpaid interest) to the beneficiary named, or to Briscoe or his heirs or
assigns, in certain definite contingencies named and not necessary here to detail. Such is the plain import of the provisions
of the so-called 'trust.'" It said that the trust reposed in Briscoe was a trust simply in his "punctuality" and "integrity,"
the same trust which lies at the base of every ageney and of
every loan or other credit; that the fact that the trust was
expressed in the instrument added nothing to its nature, force
or effect; and that if the word "trust" had not been used, it
would, nevertheless, have been implied in identical measure
and strength.
On the same day, the court entered a judgment revoking
and setting aside its former judgment, and amending the judgment of the District Court so as to condemn the succession of
Briscoe to pay to the plaintiffs the sum of $700, with five per
cent interest from January 1, 1872, and the same sum -with
like interest for each succeeding year, and the further sum of

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

$10,000 and costs of suit, and affirming the judgment in all
other respects, including the limitations on the moneyed judgment, the plaintiffs to pay the costs of the appeal.
The plaintiffs sued out a writ of error from this court, and
assigned as errors, that the Supreme Court of Louisiana erred
in deciding (1) that Mrs. Briscoe could plead the discharge in
bankruptcy of her husband, and (2) that the obligation of
Briscoe was affected by his discharge in bankruptcy.
-Y.

Tade R. Young for plaintiffs in error.

I. The plea of the discharge in bankruptcy was personal
to the bankrupt and his representatives, and could not avail
the defendant widow, fraudulent assign. This proposition is
sustained by the opinion of this court in the case of .Moyer v.
.Dewey, 103 U. S. 301, in which this court decided that the
effect of a discharge in bankruptcy is personal to the bankrupt, and does not avail to release others.
II. The instrument upon which the action is based sets out
an express, private discretionary trust, with a remainder and a
reversion, one of the strictest trusts known to the English
system. Such a technical trust does not come within the operation of the bankrupt act.
The opinion of this court in the case of Hennequi v. Clewg,
111 U. S. 676, cited and relied on by the Louisiana court, can
have no possible bearing on this case, except to remove any
doubt which might exist as to the right of the plaintiffs to the
writ of error, in a case in which the judgment is in favor of
the defendant on the plea of bankruptcy.
A factor entrusted with the goods of his principal to be sold,
and a pledgee having possession of the property pledged, are
not cases of express trusts, and such was all that this court,
decided in that-case.
".r. A88istant Attorney General .Maury for Mary E. Bris6oe, one of the defendants in-error.
Mm JusTice. BLATcHFORD, after

opinion of the court.

stating the case, delivered the

UPSHYR v. BRISCOE.
Opinion of the. Court.

In regard .to the character of the obligation assumed by
Briscoe, we concur with the views of the Supreme Court of
Louisiana in its second opinion. By the instrument signed on
the 25th of January, 1857, the relation of debtor and creditor
was created between Briscoe and the beneficiaries. It was
stated expressly that the annual payment of $700 was to "be
considered as interest upon the said amount of $10,000;" and
that, in case Annie M. Andrews should marry and leave issue,
the $10,000 should remain invested as theretofore in the hands
of Briscoe, and the "interest" should continue to be paid 'as
theretofore mentioned. These terms made Briscoe the owner
of the $10,000 in his own right. He had the right to use the
money in any way he thought proper. Presumably, he could
not pay interest on it unless he invested it. The right to use
it in any way he thought proper was repugnant to the idea of
any fiduciary relation to the money, for there was no obligation-upon him to 'keep it separate from his own money, or to
put upon it any marks of identification, or to invest it in any
particular securities. The statement in the paper signed by
Andrews, that Briscoe accepts the "trust," the statement in
the paper signed by Briscoe, that he accepts the "mandate,"
and the statement in the paper. signed by Annie M. Andrews,
that she accepts the appointment of 'Briscoe "as her trustee '
do not create a "trust" in its technical sense, or make the
fidudebt of Briscoe one created by him while acting in a "1
usual
merely
the
created
was
ciary character." The relation
one of contract between debtor and creditor. Within the,
meaning of the exception in the bankruptcy act, a debt is not
created by a parson while acting in a "-fiduciary character,"
merely because it is created under circumstances in which trust
or confidence is reposed in the debtor, in the popular sense of
those terms.
The case. of Ch/pman v. Fomyth, 2 How. 202, arose under
the bankruptcy act of August 19, 18471, c. 9, 5 Stat. 440, the
first section of which provided for the discharge from ddbt
"which shall not have been created in consequence of a defalcation as-a public officer, or as executor, administrator, guar-:
dian or trustee, or while.-acting in any other fiduciary apac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

ity." In that case, it was said that the exception applied to
the debts and n~t to the person, if he owed other debts; and
that, if the act embraced, as a fiduciary debt, the debt of a
factor who retains the money of his principal, it would be
difficult to limit its application. The court added: "It must
include all debts arising from agencies; and indeed all cases
where the law implies an obligation from the trust reposed
in the debtor. Such a construction would have left but few
debts on which the law could operate. In almost all the commdreial transactions of the country, confidence is reposed in
the punctuality and integrity of the debtor, and a violation of
these is, in a commercial sense, a disregard of a trust. But
this is not the relation spoken of in the first section of the
act. The cases enumerated, 'the defalcation of a public officer,' 'executor,' 'administrator,' 'guardian' or 'trustee,' are
not cases of implied, but special trusts, and the 'other fiduciary capacity' mentioned, must mean the same class of trusts.
The ac speaks of iechnical trusts, and not those which the law
implies from the contract. A factor is not, therefore, .within
the act."
The construction by this court of section 33 of the bankruptcy act of 1867 has been as follows:
In Neal v. Clark, 95 U. S. 704, the question was as to the
meaning of the expression in that section, of the exception of
a debt created by "the fraud" of the bankrupt; and it was
held that the "fraud" referred to in that section meant positive fraud, or fraud in fact, involving moral turpitude or intentional wrong, as does "embezzlement," with which "fraud"
was directly associated in the section, and not implied fraud
or fraud in law, which might exist without the imputation of
bad faith or immorality.
In Wolf v. Stix, 99 U. S., 1, the case of NeaZ v. Clark,was
approved; and it was held that the "fraud" intended by
,section 33 of the act of 1867 did not include such fraud as the
law implied from the purchase of property from a debtor with
the intexit by him thereby to hinder and delay his creditors in
the collection of their debts.
In .Hennequimv. Clew8, 111 U. S. 676, it was held that one

UPSH.UR v. BRISCOE.
Opinion of the Court.

hypothecating, to secure a debt due from himself, securities
which had been pledged to him to secure the obligation of
another to him, and failing to return them when the latter
obligation was discharged, did not create thereby a debt by
fraud, or in a fiduciary character, so that such debt was exceRted by section 33 of the act of 1867 from the operation of
a discharge in bankruptcy. Mr. Justice Bradley, delivering
the opinion of the court said: "There is no more -there is
not so much -of the character of trustee in one who holds
collateral securities for a debt as in one who receives money
from the sale of his principal's property -money
which
belongs to his principal alone, and not to him, and which it
is his duty to turn over to his principal without delay. The
creditor who holds a collateral, holds it for his own benefit
under contract. He is in no sense a trustee. His contract
binds him to return it when its purpose as security is fulfilled;
but if he fails to do so, it is only a breach of contract and not
a breach of trust."
In Palmer v. Hueey, 119 U. S. 96, the case of Henneguin
v. Clews was affirmed and followed, in holding, on similar
facts, that there'was no such fraud in the creation of the debt,
and no such trust in respect to the possession of the securities,
as to bar the operation of a discharge in bankruptcy. See
also Strang v. Bradner,114 U. S. 555; NVoble v. Rammond,
129 U. S. 65; and Ames v. .oir, (decided herewith,) ante, 306.
There is no appreciable distinction between the failure of
the bankers to return the collaterals, in Hennequin v. Clews,
and the failure ofj'Briscoe to pay the interest'in question.
In Cronan v. Cotting, 104: Mfass.'245, it was held, that tie
provision of section 33 of the bankruptcy act of 1867, excelitIng from the effect of a discharge debts created by the banlkrupt while acting in any fiduciary character, did not include
the obligation of a creditor, to whom the debtor delivered
property with directions to sell it and apply in satisfaction of
the debt so much of the proceeds as might be necessary for
the purpose, to pay over to the debtor the balance of the proceeds of the sale remaining after such satisfaction; but rather
implied a fiduciary relation existing previously to, orhidepend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

ently of, the transaction from which the excepted debt arose;
and that, if such an obligation constituted a fiduciary relation

such as the. statute contemplated, almost all pecuniary obligations, especially those implied by law, would be included in
the exemption. The court said: "The debt, in this case, arose
exclusively out of a single transaction between the parties.
Its creation involved no element other than that of contract.
The existence of the liability did not spring from any breach
of trust. The only default consisted in the non-payment of
the balance due to the plaintiff, after satisfying the purpose of
the pledge. The debt did not result from, but preceded, that
default." In the present case, the debt of Briscoe preceded
his. default, and was not created by his failure to carry out the
previsions of the mandate.
It is to be noted that the language of section 33 of the act
of 1867 excepts debts created by the bankrupt "while acting
in any fiduciary character;" and the language would seem to
apply only to a debt created by a person who was already a
fiduciary when the debt was created. In this view, it was
said in Cronan v. Cotting, supra: "We are inclined to the
opinion that the phrase implies a fiduciary relation existing
previously to, or independently of, the particular transaction
from which the debt arises. The collocation tends to favor
this interpretation. If the phrase 'while acting,' etc., be
referred to that which immediately precedes, it implies something in the nature of defalcation. If it be referred to the
first branch of the provision, its association with fraud and
embezzlement carries the implication of a debt growing out of
some fraudulent misappropriation, or, at least, breach of
trust."
It is also assigned for error that the plea of the discharge ot
Briscoe in bankruptcy was personal to him and his representa-.
tives, and could not avail his widow; and the case of Jifoyer
v. Dewey, 103 U. S. 301, is relied on to sustain this view. But
it is-not applicable. In that case the bankrupt, after his discharge, confessed judgments founded on debts which existed
prior to his discharge, and the suit was brought to reach property which had been conveyed by him to the defendants,

UPSHUR v. BRISCOE.
Opinion of the Court.

before his bankruptcy, in fraud of his creditors. The defendants other than the bankrupt pleaded the discharge in bankruptcy, and he failed to answer. This court held that, so far
as the discharge was doncerned, its only effect was personal to
the bankrupt, and did not avail to release the fraudulent

grantees from liability for'the fraud committed by them.

It

is manifest that the discharge would not have availed the
bankrupt if he had pleaded it, and that it could not avail his
fraudulent grantees. Moreover, in Moyer v..Dewey, the transfer of property which was attacked took place prior to the
bankruptcy, while that assailed in the present case was made
subsequently thereto, so far as Mrs. Briscoe is concerned; and
in that case the judgments which were rendered against the
debtor subsequently to the discharge, were founded on debts
which existed prior to the discharge. Therefore, the attacking creditors in that case were creditors at the date of the
fraudulent transfer, and remained such, by the subsequent
judgments, at the date they brought their suit to set aside the
fraudulent transfer. But in the present case the transfer to
Mrs. Briscoe took place after the bankruptcy, and the debts
here sued on were barred, and they were not revived by judgments taken subsequently to the discharge. As she derived
her title, as is alleged, from Briscoe, she is entitled to the full
benefit of the position in which he stood at the time the
alleged fraudulent transfer was made, and to all defences
resulting therefrom. She is entitled to plead the discharge.
in her own defence, and cannot be deprived of its benefit by
the failure of his heirs to plead it. See also Botts v. Patton,
10 B. Mon. 452, 455.
Judgment afrfized.

