SIMMONS v. SAUL.
Syllabus,

heard to say that these notes were not received in payment?
While, in fact, it was not paid, yet the plaintiff treated it as
its property and negotiated it. Can it now be heard to say
that such note was simply evidence of the amount due, when
it received and used it as its property? It is unnecessary to
affirm that these matters show conclusively that the obligations assumed by the original contract were, satisfied and discharged by the settlement and notes of October, 1884. It is
enough to affirm that there is in the~e matters testimony from
which such a conclusion might be drawn; and, therefore, the
findings of the trial court in this respect cannot by this court
be ignored.
The fourth allegation of error is, that notwithstanding the
acts of Mr. Shough may have apparently been such as to bind
the company plaintiff, he had, in fact, no authority to bind the
company by such acts. It is sufficient to say in respect to
this matter, that his own testimony, corroborated by that of
other members of the company, is that during the dates of
these transactions he was acting as its financial manager, and,
therefore, it cannot now repudiate its liability for his actions.
These are the only errors alleged, and in them we see nothing to justify us in disturbing the rulings of the trial court.
Afrm.
The judgment is, therefore,

SIMMONS v. SAUL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 1585. Submitted January 9,1891.-DecidedMarch 2,1891.

The constitutional provision that full faith and credit shall be given in each
State to the judicial proceedings of other States does not preclude inquiry into the jurisdiction of the court in which a judgment is rendered
over the subject matter or the parties affected by it, nor into the factb
necessary to give such jurisdiction.
In 1872 parish courts in Louisiana were vested with original and exclusive
jurisdiction over the administration of vacant and intestate successions.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Counsel for Parties.
The general principles of probate jurisdiction and practice as settled by
a long series of'decisions in the State courts and in the courts of the
United States, are applicable to the powers and proceedings of the parish
courts of Louisiana.
The order of the parish court in Louisiana granting letters of administration was a judicial determination of the existence of the necessary facts
preliminary to them.
The parish court had unquestionable jurisdiction of the intestate estate or
succession of Simmons.
The court directed an inventory of the estate, and appointed an administrator, in the same order, and the inventory was filed upon the following
day. Held, that this was a sufficient compliance with the requirements
of the Loilisiana Code, Art. 1190.
Whether the person appointed administrator by the parish court was or was
not the public administrator, who, under the law of Louisiana then in
force, was the only person to whom such administration could be committed, was a matter to be considered by the court making the appointment, and its judgment thereon cannot be impeached collaterally.
Cornstock v. Crawford, 3 Wall. 396, and McNitt v. Turner, 16 Wall. 352,
affirmed and applied.
It was the intent of the legislature of Louisiana in enacting article 1190 of
the code that small successions should be granted without previous
notice, and that the settlement of them should be done in as summary
a manner as possible.
It is settled in Louisiana that the purchaser at a sale under the order of a
probate court, which is a judicial sale, is not bound to look beyond the
decree recognizing its necessity: the jurisdiction of the court may be
inquired into, but the truth of the record concerning matters within its
jurisdiction cannot be disputed.
The judgment of a parish court in Louisiana, within the sphere of its jurisdiction, is binding upon the courts of the several States and of the
United States.
A court of equity will not entertain jurisdiction to set aside the granting
of letters of administration upon a succession in Louisiana on the
ground of fraud, and will not give relief by charging piirchasers at a
sale made by the administrator under order of the court, and those
deriving title from them, as trustees in favor of alleged heirs or representatives of the deceased.

Decree dismissing the bill.
The case is stated in the opinion.

Ix EQUITY.

pealed.
'. S.

Complainants ap-

avis Page for appellants.

Mr. John -Douglass Brown, J.,

for appel!je.

and Mr. J. LeRoy Wofe

SIMM~iONS v. SAUL.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.JUSTICE LAmAR

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, by
ten citizens of Louisiana, two of Mississippi and four of Texas,
in their own behalf and in behalf of certain other persons
whose names are not known, all of whom claim to be the legal
descendants of Robert M. Simmons, late a citizen of Louisiana,
against Harry R. Saul, a citizen of Pennsylvania. Its object
was to charge the defendant, as the former owner of a tract
of land in Wisconsin, as the trustee for complainants, with
respect to said ownership, and have him account for the value
of the lands, for all their rents and profits received by him
and his grantees, and for all loss and damages resulting to the
property by reason of the cutting of timber thereon by the
defendant and his grantees, and for any other loss occasioned
by the defendant's acts.
The amended bill filed December 23, 1890, contained, substantially, the following material averments: In or about the
year 1830, Robert M. Simmons died unmarried and intestate
in Washington parish, Louisiana, seized and possessed of an
inchoate land claim in St. Tammany parish, for 640 acres,
founded upon the purchase of a settlement right, which claim
was entered as No. 930, in the report of Commissioner James
0. Cosby, dated June 7, 1812, and, with others, was confirmed
by the act of Congress of March 3, 1813.
These complainants are the collateral heirs of Robert TIf.
Simmons, being the lineal descendants of his brothers and
sisters, and are all named specifically, excepting the descendants of one sister, who are alleged to be about seventy in
number, and so widely scattered that it would be inconvenient
to make all of them parties to the suit, wherefore it was asked
that the suit might be maintained for the benefit of all of the
complainants who were named, and for the unnamed complainants who might afterwards intervene and become parties
to it.
By the law of Louisiana in force at the date of the .death of
Robert Kv.Simmons, and ever since, the heirs of a decedent

OCTOBER TERM

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

become seized and possessed of his whole estate, both real and
personal, immediately upon his death, subject only to their
right to renounce said succession, or to the right of creditors
to require an administration thereof in case of non-action by
the heirs. Such renunciation is not presumed, but must be
made by formal act before a notary, but such acceptance may
be evidenced by any act of the heirs indicating their intention"
to exercise ownership over the ancestor's property, and is
always presumed unless the contrary appear. After an acceptance by the heirs or any of them of the succession of their
ancestor no administrator can lawfully be appointed to admiiiister thereon.
For reasons not involving fault on the part of Robert Mt.
Simmons, or any of his heirs, the said land claim remained
unlocated and unsatisfied until Congress passed the act of
June 2, 1858, 11 Stat. 294, c. 81, the third and fourth sections
of which provided as follows:
"SEc. 3. That in all cases of confirmation by- this act, or
where any private land claim has been confirmed by Congress, and the same, in whole or in part, has -not been located
or satisfied, either for want of a specific location prior to such
confirmation, or for any reason whatsoever, other than a discovery of fraud in such claim subsequent to such confirmation,
it shall be the duty of the surveyor general of the district in
which such claim was situated, upon satisfactory proof that
such claim has been so confirmed, and that the same, in whole
or in part, remains unsatisfied, to issue to the claimant, or his
legal representatives, a certificate of location for a quantity of
land equal to that- so confirmed and unsatisfied; which certificat3 may be located upon any of the public lands of the
'United States subject to sale at private entry, at a, price not
exceeding one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre: Provided, That such location shall conform to legal divisions and
subdivisions.
" SEc. 4. That the register of the proper land office, upon
the location of such certificate, shall issue to the person entitled thereto a certificate of entry, upon which, if it shall
appear to the satisfaction of the commissioner of the general

SIMMONS v. SAUL.
Opinion of the Court.

land office that such certificate has been fairly obtained,
according to the true intent and meaning of this act, a patent
shall issue as in other cases."
No limit of time was fixed for the presentation of claims
under that act for certificates of location therein provided for.
During the lapse of time between the origin of said inchoate
claim, its confirmation, and the passage of the act of Congress
for its satisfaction, many of those interested in it had died,
and their heirs, or legal representatives, many of whom were
minors, had become widely scattered, and by reason of such
delay had lost all hope of satisfaction of the claim. Neither
the complainants nor any other persons interested in the claim,
who were alive at the time the act was passed, knew of the
existence of the claim, of the passage of that act, or of their
rights thereunder, until within a year before the commencement of this suit; none of the surveyors general for the district of Louisiana, since the passage of the- act, ever took any
steps to apprise them of their rights, it being the practice to
issue certificates of location under the act only upon application therefor; and none of the persons lawfully interested in
the claim ever applied for or received any certificates of location in satisfaction of any part of the claim.
Notwithstanding the above facts and provisions of law,
one Daniel J. Wedge, on the 8th of May, 1872, induced the
district attorney pro tempore, one David Magee, of Washington parish, Louisiana, to file his petition in the parish court of
that parish, by the said Daniel J. Wedge, as attorney, alleging
that the estate of Robert M. Simmons was vacant, and that it
consisted of the confirmed but unsatisfied land claim hereinbefore referred to, which was less than $500 in value, and
praying to be appointed administrator thereof, and for an
inventory and sale of the same under the laws of Louisiana
regulating the administration of vacant estates of less than
$500 of value; that such proceedings were had that, on the
8th day of May, 1872 i the judge of the parish court, in pursuance of said petition, issued an order purporting to appoint
said David Magee administrator of said estate, and to direct
an inventory of the same to be made, and a sale of the prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

erty, which might be found to belong thereto, to pay debts;
that said inventory was returned on the 9th day of Mray, 1872,
and, on the 22d of the same month, a pretended sale of the
claim was made in accordance with the aforesaid order, at
which sale one Addison G. Foster pretended to purchase it for
the sum of $30, which sum was wholly used and expended in
the payment of the costs and expenses of such pretended
administration, no other debts than those created thereby
existing or being shown to exist. A copy of all those proceedings in the parish court was annexed to the bill and made a
part of it, and will be referred to more in detail as we proceed.
At the time the pretended administration proceedings in
the parish court were had, the parish court of Washington
parish was a court -f limited, special and statutory jurisdiction,
and in the matter of said proceedings pretended to act under
special statutory authority, which is set out with some degree
of particularity.
Afterwards said Addison G. Foster, claiming to be the legal
representative of Robert M. Simmons, by virtue of the aforesaid proceedings in the parish court, applied to Everett W.
Foster, the surveyor general of the United States for the district of Louisiana, (who, it seems, was the brother of applicant,) for the delivery to him, as such legal representative, of
the certificates of location in satisfaction of the aforesaid land
claim, under the act of 1858, and the surveyor general, on or
about the 31st day of August, 1872, prepared certificates of
location for the whole claim, and forwarded them to the commissioner of the general land office, who authenticated them,
and afterwards delivered them to Chipman, Hosmer & Co., of
Washington, D.C., as the agents for Foster. A copy of one
of the certificates of location with the form of the authentication by'the commissioner, and the following certificate of
the surveyor general for the district of Louisiana, is set out in
full in the bill:
"I ccrtify that from evidence filed in this office, A. G. Foster is the legal representative of Robert M. Simmons, and as
such is entitled to locate the within strip.
"E. W. FOSTEE, 8urveyor General."

SIM1 ONS v. SAUL.
Opinion of the Court.

The evidence referred to in that endorsement consisted solely
of the pretended act of sale under the administration proceedings before mentioned.
Thereafter certain of those certificates were located by
Addison G. Foster, or his agents, upon certain described lajids
in Wisconsin, and a patent for those lands was issued by the
United States in the name of Robert M. Simmons, or his legal
representatives, which patent recited the provisions of the
third and fourth sections of the act of June 2, 1858, above set
forth, the issue of the certificates of location by the surveyor
general of Louisiana, the name of the commissioner who
originally reported the claim, the date of the confirming act,
the number of the certificate by virtue of which the land was
located, and that the location of the tract was "in part satisfaction of the aforesaid claim of Robert M. Simmons."
Thereafter the defendant herein pretended to purchase those
lands from said Addison G. Foster, through his attorney-infact, by quitclaim deed, which deed together with the patent
was'recorded in the office of the register of deeds of Chippewa
County, Wisconsin, on the 13th of January, 1875. By several
mesne conveyances the land passed to one Charles Saul, who
gave to the defendant a power -of attorney to coniey the
lands, which was recorded June 9, 1883. The whereabouts of
all the grantees in those conveyances are unknown to complainants, but are believed to be not within the jurisdiction of
the court. In 1878, while defendant was in possession of the
lands in question, claiming title thereto, he removed therefrom certain timber and other valuable products, and sold the
same for large sums of money, and received large rents aud
profits from the lands, but neglected to pay taxes lawfully
assessed thereon; so that in 1880 they were conveyed for the
unpaid taxes, whereby the right of complainants to recover
the same has been wholly lost and unlawfully defeated. The
value of the timber and other products cut and removed from
the land, and the value of the lands themselves, largely'
exceeded $10,000, the precise amount being impossible to
state.
The aforesaid administration proceedings in the matter of

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the succession of Robert M. Simmons, the sale of the land
claim, the application for and delivery of the certificates of
location, the location of them upon the lands in question, and
the issue of certificates of entry and patents therefor, were
done, had and contrived in pursuance of certain agreements,
entered into about the 16th of August, 1869, between Everett
W. Foster, surveyor general of Louisiana, said Addison G.
Foster, and certain other named persons, residents of Washington, D. C., iNew York and Louisiana, for the purpose of securing for their own use and benefit, and in fraud and disregard
of the rights of the persons justly entitled thereto, certificates
of location authorized by the said act of Congress of 1858, by
means of pretended administration sales of confirmed claims,
as part of the property of the successions of the original confirmees or owners thereof, in Louisiana, which successions
were administered in various parishes of Louisiana, in large
numbers, under alleged authority of the provisions of Louisiana law relating to the administration of vacant estates of less
than $500 in value. All the papers in those proceedings were
made out upon pi ited forms furnished by the parties to those
agreements. All of the proceedings in relation to the claim
in suit, the cutting of the timber aforesaid, and all other acts
in anywise connected with the claim or land, were done and
had without the knowledge of complainants, or of any person
interested in the claim; and not until within a year last past
did they ascertain anything in'relation thereto.
The bill then avers that all of the aforesaid proceedings in
relation to the issue of certificates of location in satisfaction of
the claim, the location of them upon lands in Wisconsin, the
issue of patents, etc., and all other acts in anywise connected
therewith, or with respect to the land, were done and had in
fraud of the rights of complainants, and those interested in
the claim.
The prayer of the bill was that complainants might be
P.ljudged and decreed to be the true legal representatives of
tid Robert M. Simmons; that the aforesaid proceedings in
i ie parish court in relation to the sale of the land claim might
b., adjudged null and void; that an account might be taken,

SIMMONS v. SAUL.
Opinion of the Court.

by and under the direction and decree of the court, of the timber and other products removed from the land by the defendant, or with his permission or authority, and of the value of
the timber and products and land lost by reason of the same
having been sold and conveyed for taxes; that the defendant
might be decreed to pay unto complainants the value of the
timber and products so removed, with interest from the date
of such removal; that the defendant might be decreed to pay
to them the highest value of the lands since the date of the
assessment of the taxes for which the land was sold as aforesaid; and for other and further general relief, etc.
Certified copies of all the papers, orders, judgment, etc., of
the parish court of Washington parish, Louisiana, in the matter of the succession sale aforesaid, also of the certificates of
location, the patent and the aforesaid agreement in the matter
of Louisiana land claims, were attached to the bill, as exhibits.
The defendant demurred to the bill, setting up fifteen
grounds in support of the demurrer; and on January 6, 1891,
the court below sustained the demurrer, and entered a decree
dismissing the bill. An appeal from that decree brings the
case here.
The first and main ground of the demurrer" in this case is,
that the facts stated in the complaint show that the relief
claimed by the complainants is barred by the judgment or
decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, rendered in proceedings regular on their face,- and which have not been
attacked by any proceeding in that court, or in any appellate
court. The bill alleged that the court which rendered that
judgment was without jurisdiction; that its proceedings in the
matter did not. eonform to the statute under the authority bf
which it assumed to act; that the judgment itself was obtaine d
by a fraud upon the court; and that necessarily the pretended
succession sale had in pursuance thereof, from which the
appellee derived title to the lands with respect to which he
committed the wrongs complained of, was illegal and void as
to complainants, who, as heirs of Robert X. Simmons, deceased,
are the equitable owners of said property. The pleadings,
therefore, at the outset, present to us these two questions:

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

(1) The validity of the judgment of the parish court of Washington parish ordering the succession sale of the unlocated
land claim of Robert M. Simmons, deceased, and the legality
of the sale thereunder, irrespective of any question of fraud.
(2) As to the fraud by which it is alleged the judgment in
question was procured.
It is the settled doctrine of this court that the constitutional
provision that full faith and credit shall be given in each
State to the judicial proceedings of other States, does not preclude inquiry into the jurisdiction of the court in which a
judgment is rendered over the subject matter or the parties
affected by it, nor into the facts necessary to give such jurisdiction. Thompson v. Whitman, 18 Wall. 457; Cole v. Cunningham, 133 U. S.107.
This leads to the consideration of the powers of the parish
courts in Louisiana in 1872, especially with regard to their
jurisdiction in probate and succession matters. The constitution of the State, adopted in 1868, under which the judicial
proceedings in 1872 took place, provided in Art. 73 that "The
judicial power shall be vested in a Supreme Court, in district
courts, in parish courts and in justices of the peace." In Art.
87, that "All successions shall be opened and settled in the
parish courts; and all suits in which a succession is either
plaintiff or defendant may be brought either in the parish or
district court, according to the amount involved." And in
Art. 88, that "In all probate matters, where the amount in
dispute shall exceed five hundred.dollars, exclusive of interest,
the appeal shall be directly from the parish to the Supreme
Court."
The laws of Louisiana, in force when the proceedings in the
parish court occurred, relating to the subject under consideration, provide that (Rev. Stat. 1870) "The parish courts of this
State shall have jurisdiction

.

.

.

of all the matters pro-

vided for and embraced in title three (3), part second, of the
'Code of Practice,' which treats of proceedings in the courts
of probate."
Art. 921, Code of Practice: "Courts of probate are specially established to appoint legal representatives for minors,

SIMMONS v. SAUL.
Opinion of the Court.

orphans, insane and absent persons, and to superintend the
administration of vacant successions."
Art. 923. "The parish judges are ex oicio judges of the
courts of probate, in their respective parishes."
Art. 924. "Courts of probate have the exclusive power:
4. To appoint curators to vacant estates and absent

heirs. 5. To grant orders to make the inventories and sales
of the property of successions, which are administered by curators or testamentary executors, or in which the heir prays for
the benefit of inventory."
Art. 872, Civil Code of 1870: "Succession signifies also the
estates, rights and charges which a person leaves after his
death, whether the property exceeds the charges or the charges
exceed the property, or whether he has only left charges without any property."
Art. 873. "The succession not only includes the rights and
obligations of the deceased, as they exist at the time of his
death, but all that has accrued thereto since the opening of
the succession, as also the new charges to which it becomes.
subject."
Art. 1095. "A succession is called vacant when no oneclaims it, or when all the heirs are unknown, or when all the.
known heirs to it have renounced it."
Art. 1097. "Vacant successions are managed by adniinistrators appointed by courts, under the name of curators of
vacant successions."
Art. 934. "Tbe ' succession, either testamentary or. legal, or
irregular, becomes open by death or by presumption of death
caused by long absence, in the cases established by law."
Art. 935. "The place of the opening of successions is fixed
as follows: In the parish where the deceased resided, if he had
a fixed domicil or residence in this State."
Art. 929, Code of Practice: "The place in which a succession is opened is, and in future shall be held to be, as follows,
notwithstanding any former law to the contrary: In the parish where the deceased resided, if he had a domicil or fixed
place of residence in the State."
Art. 946, Civil Code: "Though the succession be acquired
voL. c

-XXVI-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

by the heir from the moment of the death of the deceased,
his right is in suspense, until he decide whether he accepts or
rejects it."
Art. 988. "The simple acceptance may be either express or
tacit. It is express when the heir assumes the quality of heir
in an unqualified manner, in some authentic or private instrument, or in some judicial proceeding. It is tacit when some
act is done by the heir which necessarily supposes his intention
to'accept, and which he could have no right to do but in his
quality of heir."
Art. 1190. "If a succession is so small or is so much in
debt that no one will accept the curatorship of it, the judge of
the place where the succession is opened, after having ordered
:n inventory of the effects composing it, shall appoint the district attorney of the district or the district attorneypro ternpore of the parish, curator of said succession, who shall cause
the effects to be sold, and the proceeds to be applied to the
payment of its debts; th e whole to be done, in as summary a
manner as possible to diminish costs; provided, that this article is not to apply to successions amounting to more than five
hundred dollars."
Art. 611 of the Code of Practice provides that where no
appeal has been taken within the delay prescribed by law, the
nullity of the judgment may be ddmanded by means of an
action brought before the court which has rendered the same
within a time prescribed. And Art. 607 provides that a definitive judgment. may be annulled in all cases where it appears
that it has been obtained through fraud or through ill practices on the part of the party in whose favor it was rendered.
The provisions of the law abundantly show, we think, that
the parish courts were vested with original and exclusive jurisdiction over the administration of vacant and intestate successions, such as the allegations of the bill show this to have been.
They do not differ very materially from the laws of most of the
States regulating probate matters. The general principles of
probate jurisdiction and practice, as settled by a long series of
decisions in the state courts and in the courts of the United
States, are applicable to the powers and proceedings of the par-

SIMM1ONS v. SAUL.
Opinion of the Court.

ish courts of Lomsiana, and have been recognized and enforced
by the Supreme Court of that State. They also show that,
under the averments of the bill, the parish court of Washington
Simmons.
parish had jurisdiction of the succession of Robert MNI.
and
no one
The succession had been open for over forty years,
had claimed it; nor did any of the complainants as heirs
accept it either expressly in writing or by judicial proceeding;
nor tacitly by doing any act which necessarily supposed their
intention to accept. It was very properly adjudicated to be
vacant, and was administered as such. Washington parish
was the one in which the deceased was domiciled at the date
of his death, and the succession, being less than $500 in value,
was administered under section 1.190 of the code. The petition, in reciting that "Robert M. Simmons departed this life
in said parish many years since, . . . leaving some property consisting of an old deferred unlocated purchase land
claim," and that the same was less. than $500. in value, and
praying for an inventory, appraisement and sale to pay debts,
etc., set forth the necessary jurisdictional facts to warrant the
court in proceeding to administer the estate. The court,
therefore, had before-it in the petition the death of Simmons
within the parish, his intestacy, the possession of property and
the *smallness of the estate. The order granting letters of
administration was a judicial determination of the existence of
all those facts. Admitting all the facts well pleaded in the
complaint to be true, as we are bound to do on demurrer, it is
our opinion that tie parish court of Washington parish bad a
clear and unquestionable jurisdiction of the intestate estate or
succession of Robert M. Simmons.
But .it is contended that the irregularities and failures to
comply with the law in the probate -proceedings ousted the
court of its jurisdiction, and rendered the decree of sale and
the sale itself invalid. We will proceed to consider these
alleged failures, so far as they affect the jurisdiction, in the
order in Which they are stated in counsel's brief. The first is,
that the proceeding is void, because the appointment of an
administrator was made before the ifiventory of the estate
was ordered, contrary to Art. 1190 of the Louisiana Code,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

which permits such appointment to be made only after an
inventory is ordered. The answer to this is, that the court
directed an inventory and appointed an administrator in the
same order, and that on the next day the inventory was filed,
upon which the court based its order, directing the sale to be
made. This was, in effect, a compliance with the statute, and
1he objection is more technical than substantial. The next
point relied on to show the invalidity of the proceedings is,
that the administrator appointed by the court 'Was not the
public administrator, who, under the law of Louisiana then in
force, was the only person to whom such administration could
be committed. This point has been considered in two cases
before this court, and in each was held to be without merit.
Comstoc . v. Crawford, 3 Wall. 396, 403; .McNitt v. Turner,
16 Wall. 352, 363. In the former of these cases the question
before the court was as to the validity of an administrator's
sale in the Territory of Wisconsin. The statute of the Territory provided that there should be appointed by the governor,
in and for each county, a person known as "the public administrator" therein; and it further required that the administration of a non-resident intestate shall be granted to such public
administrator of the county in which the non-resident intestate
died. It was contended in that case, as it is here, that the
sale was invalid, because the administrator appointed by the
probate court was not the public administrator. The court,
in answer to this contention, said, Mr. Justice Field delivering
the opinion: "It is well settled that when the jurisdiction of
a court of limited and special authority appears upon the face
of its proceedings, its action cannot be collaterally attacked
for mere- error or irregularity. The jurisdiction appearing,
the same presumption of law arises that it was rightly exercised as prevails with -reference to the action of a court of
superior and general authority. . . . Whether there was
a widow of the deceased, or any next of kin, or creditor, who
was a proper person to receive, letters, if he bad applied for
them, or whether there was any iblIic administrator in office
authorized or fit to take charge 6f the estate, or to which of
these several parties it was meet that the administration should

8312INfONS v. SAUL.
Opinion of the Court.

be intrusted, were matters for the consideration and determination of the court; and its action respecting them, however
irregular, cannot be impeached collaterally." In the case of
MleVitt v. Turner, supra, the same question under a similar
statute was presented and decided in the same way.
Another ground is that Art. 1115 of the Louisiana Code
required ten-days' public notice before the appointment of an
administrator; that, according to the allegations of the bill,
no notice of the appointment in the proceedings under consideration was given; and that under Art. 1167 :of the same
code property belonging to vacant successions could only be
sold at public auction after ten days' advertisement for movables and thirty days' for immovables. 'We do not think that
the requirements in Arts. 1115 and 1167, as to advertisements,
apply to the proceedings in question, which were instituted
under Art. 1190. That article, as we have seen, provides as
follows:
"Art. 1190. If a succession is. so small or is so much in debt
that no one will accept the curatorship of it, the judge of the
place where the succession is opened, after having ordered7 an
inventory of the effects composing it, shall appoint the district
attorney of the district or the district attorney pro termpore of
the parish, curator of said succession, who shall cause the
effects to be sold, and the proceeds to be applied to the pay-ment of its debts; the whole to be done in -as summary a
manner as possible to diminish costs; provided, that this articl.
is not to apply to successions amounting to more than five
hundred dollars."
The history of this provision leads to the conclusion that it
was the intention of the legislature that the administration of
such small successions should be granted without previous
notice, and that the settlement of them should be done in as
summary a manner as possible. But even if it be conceded
that the requirements referred to do apply, we are of the
opini6n that, the jurisdiction over the" subject matter having
attached, any informalities as to notices, advertisements, etc.,
in the subsequeiit proceedings of the court, cannot oust that
jurisdiction. They'are, at most, errors which could be cor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

rected on appeal, or avoided in a direct action of annulment,
as expressly provided in the articles of the code above cited,
but cannot be made the grounds on which the decree of the
court can be collaterally assailed.
Our conclusion on this branch of the case is fully borne out
by many decisions of this court, two of which are cited above.
In
feNitt v. Turner, 16 Wall. 366, Mr. Justice Swayne,
speaking for the court, said: "Jurisdiction is authority to,
hear and determine. It is an axiomatic proposition that when
jurisdiction has attached, whatever errors may subsequently
occur in its exercise, the proceeding being coram judice, can
be impeached collaterally only for fraud. In all other respects.
it is as conclusive as if it were irreversible in a proceeding for.
error." Grignon'8 Lesmee v. Astor, 2 How. 319, 337, 340, 341,
was, like this, a case of a-sale by an administrator. The court,
in its opinion, said: "The whole merits of the controversy
depend on one single question: had the county court of Brown
County jurisdiction of the subject on which they acted?
Nor is it necessary that a full or perfect account should appear
in the records of the contents of papers on file, or the judgment of the court on matters preliminary to a final order; it is
enough that there be something of record which shows the
subject matter before the court, and their action upon it, that
their judicial power arose and was exercised by a definitive
order, sentence or decree. . . . The granting the. license
to sell is an adjudication upon all the facts necessary to give
jurisdiction, and whether they existed or not is wholly immaterial, if no appeal is taken; the rule is the same whether the
law gives an appeal or not; if none is given from the final
decree, it is conclusive on all whom it concerns. . . . The
court having power to make the decree, it can be impeached
only by fraud in the party who obtains it. 6 PetI 729. Apurchaser under it is not bound to look beyond the decree; if
there -is error in it, of the most pal~able kind, if the court
which rendered it have, in the exercise of jurisdiction, disregarded, misconstrued or disobeyed the plain provisions of thelaw which gave them the power to hear and determine the
case before them, the title of a purchaser is as much protected

SIMONS v. SAUL.
Opinion of the Court.

as if the adjudication would stand the test of a .writ of error."
The following authorities are strong in support of the general
proposition under consideration; Thomp,,on v. Tolmie, 2 Pet.
157; AXohr v. Manierre,101 U. S. 417; Comstock v. Crawford,.
mupra; Florentine v. Barton, 2 Wall. 210; Thaw v. Ritchie,
136 U. S. 519.
The adjudications of the Supreme Court of Louisiana are
in entire harmony with those decisions. 'Ithas long been a
fundamental principle of law in that State that " the purchaser
at a sale under the order of a probate court, which is a judicial sale, is not bound to look beyond the decree recognizing
its necessity. He must look to the jurisdiction of the court,
but the truth of the record concerning matters within its
jurisdiction cannot be disputed." 2 Hen. Dig. 1494-, par. 5,
citing a long list of authorities.
One of the leading cases is Lalanne'8 Ieirs v. Xoreau, 13
La. 433, 436. In that case the heirs brought an action of
ejectment in the district court against the purchasers at a sale
made by order of the probate court of the real estate of their
ancestor, and recovered judgment. Upon appeal the Supreme
Court of the State reversed that judgment, thus upholding
the title acquired at the succession sale. In its opinion the
court said: "We place our decision on the broad ground that
sales directed or authorized by the courts of probate are judicial sales to all legal intents and purposes., itwas so decided
by this court in the cases already alluded to, and the principle
is recognized in that of Pintardv. Deyris, 3 Martin, IN. S.32.
Art. 114, p. 366, of the old Civil Code, also seems to recdgnize
it, and it is a textual provision of the Louisiana Code included
in Art. 1863. The necessity and wisdom for such a rule of
property has long been felt and acknqwledged in the most
important States of the Union, and none is better settled by
the decisions of their courts. They all maintain .
that a judgment, decree, sentence or order passed by a competent jurisdiction, which creates or changes a title or any
interest in an estate, is not only final as to the parties thenselves and all claiming under them, but furnishes conclusive
evidence to all mankind that the right or interest belongs to
the party to whom the court adjtIdged it."

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

In 7 aldere v. Bird, 10 Rob. La. 396, 398, the court said:
"It is now well settled that where there is a formal decree of
the court of probates, recognizing the necessity of selling the
property inherited by minors for the payment of debts of
the succession, and giving an opportunity to the attorney of the
absent heirs to show that in fact no such necessity existed, the
purchaser is not bound to look beyond the decree.
The want of a sufficient time for advertising between the
rendition of the judgment of the court of probates and the
.sale is a defect 'which the act of 1834 relative to advertisements, was expressly made to remedy. The plea of prescription [five years] must prevail as to that."
In Beale v. Walden, 11 Rob. 67, 72, the court said: "The
whole controversy tiiins upon the first two questions here presented, to wit, the jurisdiction of the court of probates of the
parish of Jefferson, and, if it had such jurisdiction, whether
Walden was a purchaser at a judicial sale; for if that court
had jurisdiction, we will not go behind its judgment to inquire
whether there was legal evidence of a debt, or, in other words,
a necessity for the sale, etc."
In Michel's Heirs v. Xichel's Curator,11 La. 154, the court
held that the purchaser is not bound to'look beyond the decree
of the court of probates recognizing the necessity of the sale.
See also -McCulloughv. Minor, 2 La. Ann. 466; Wright v.
Cummings, 19 La. Ann. 353; Sizemore v. Wedge, 20 La. Ann.
124; Wisdom v. Buckner, 31 La. Ann. 52; Grahan'sHeirs v.
Gibson, 14 La. Ann. 149; Ball's Adm'vr v. Ball, 15 La. 173,
182; Rhodes v. Union Bank, 7 Rob. La. 63, 65, 66.
A case of great importance, in this connection, is .Duson v.
Dupri, 32 La. Ann. 896. That was a petitory action in a district court, by the curator of the succession of one Lquis Blanc
and the attorney for the absent heirs of the same succession,
to recover a tract of land which they alleged was the property of that succession. The defenc was, that the plaintiffs
were incapacitated to sue, because their appointment by the
parish court of St. Landry was an absolute nullity, for the
following reasons: First. That Louis Blanc having died in
the parish of Orleans, where he resided, the probate court of

SIMI£ONS v. SAUL.
Opinion of the Court.

St. Landry had no jurisdiction over his succession. Second.
That Louis Blanc having left heirs residing in the State, the
probate court could not treat and administer his succession as
a vacant estate. The case was tried on those exceptions, and
the district court held them sufficient, and thereupon dismissed the action. Upon appeal the Supreme Court reversed
that judgment, and held: "In our opinion the district judge
erred in allowing this collateral attack on the judgment of the
probate court.

.

.

.

The late parish court of St. Landry

had probate jurisdiction, and was exclusively competent to
grant and issue letters of administration in all successions
properly opened in that court. Defendants contend that this
succession was not properly opened in that court, for the
reasons urged in their exceptions. This denial presents a
question of fact; that the deceased was not a resident of this
parish, and that, having left heirs who were residefits of this
State, his succession was not vacant so as to necessitate or justify the appointment of a curator.

.

.

.

These questions

can be looked into and adjudicated upon only in a direct action
before the same court, or before the tribunal now vested with
original probate jurisdiction in the parish of St. Landry. No
principle of our jurisprudence is more firmly established than
the following: 'Letters of administration make full proof of
the party's capacity until they be revoked. They must have
their effect, and the regularity of the proceedings on which
they issued cannot be examined collaterally.' This rule was
laid down in the early days of our jurisprudence, and has been
sanctioned, confirmed and consecrated by an unbroken line of
decisions of this court down to the present day;" citing a
long list of authorities.
The cases cited by counsel for appellants, instead of militating against the doctrine of the cases above referred to, are
in reality in harmony with them. Many of them-were cases
in which the judgment of the probate court was attacked
directly by appeal or by an action of nullity, and not collaterally; while others were legal actions of revendication to try a
title held under a will alleged to be invalid, which, under the
code, are expressly authorized to be brought in the district court.

OCTOBER TERMf, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Having reached the conclusion that a judgment of a parish
court of Louisiana, rendered within the sphere of its jurisdiction, is binding upon the courts of the several States and of.
the United States, the next question for our consideration
relates to the averments of fraud in connection with the succession sale. These averments, divested of the usual epithets.
of fraud, in such cases, and considered apart from the allegations of a lack of jurisdiction in the court, and of jurisdictional
defects in the subsequent proceedings, are meagre and indefinite as to any particular acts of fraud upon the court or upon.
the appellants. They do not state any falsehood, imposition
or undue influence upon the court or any of its officers. They
are to the effect, when sifted, that a large number of persons,
including the United States surveyor general for Louisiana,
and his brother, Addison G. Foster, the purchaser of this claim,
in 1872, had entered into agreements to purchase a great
number of confirmed private land claims in Louisiana, at succession sales, and then have them satisfied by certificates of
location under the act'of 1858; and that this sale was a consummation of a part of this agreement. It may be pioper
here to observe that the instrument attached to the bill as an
exhibit, and referred to as reciting one of these alleged agreements, says nothing whatever in relation to administration of
vacant successions, or sales thereunder, as set forth in the bill,
and to that extent negatives its averments. Nor do they mention any fact connected with such alleged agreement which
in anyway affected the judicial proceedings that were taken
in this administration or tended to influence the sale thereunder.
But waiving everything as to the sufficiency of the allegations of fraud, the question arises, do they furnish any grounds.
for the annulment by a court of equity of the probate proceedings under consideration, for the purpose of charging the
defendant as a trustee for the benefit of complainants? We
think not, and in this view we are sustained by a number of
decisions of this court, to some of which we now refer. Ctristmas v. _uwusell, 5 Wall. 290, was an action of debt brought in
the Unite1 States Circuit Court for the Southern District of

SIMONS v. SAUL.
Opinion of the Court.

Mississippi, on a judgment obtained against the defendant in
Kentucky. The defendant pleaded that the judgment had
been obtained by the fraud of the plaintiff. A demurrer to
the plea having been sustained by that court, the case was
brought here and the judgment below affirmed, upon .the
ground that fraud could not be pleaded to an action in one
State upon a judgment obtained in another.
In -Maxwellv. Stewart, 22 Wall. 77, 81, the very same question was presented to this court, in'a similar case, upon the
same plea, and this principle was reaffirmed.
In .anley v. Donoghue, 116 U. S. 1, 4, the court said, Mr.
Justice Gray delivering the opinion: "Judgments recovered
in one State of the .Union, when proved in the courts of
another, differ from judgments recovered in a foreign country
in no other respect than that of not being re~xaminable upon
the merits, nor impeachable for fraud in obtaining them, if
rendered by a court having jurisdiction of the cause and of
the parties;" citing Buckner v. Finley, 2 Pet. 592; .A''lmoyle v.. 6oh6 ,, 13 Pet. 312, 324; 9'Arcy v. KYetchum, 11 How.
165, 176; a .ristmas v. Russell, 5 Wall. 290, 305; Thonpson
v. Whitman, 18 Wall. 457.
The case of Broe&rick's Will, 21 Wall. 503, upon th, point
is absolutely conclusive against the appellants. That was a
bill in equity brought by the alleged hlirs-at-law of Broderick
to set aside and annul the probate o.f his will in the probate
court of California, and to recover the property belonging to
his estate, or to have the purchasers at the executor'T sale
thereof, and those deriving title from them, charged al trustees for the benefit of complainants. The bill alleged that the
will was forged; that the grant of letters testamentary and
the orders for the sale of the property were obtained by fraud,all of which proceedings, as well as the death of the decedent,
were unknown to the complainants until within three years
before the filing of the bill. A demurrer to the bill was overruled and the case was appealed to this court. It was held,
Mr. Justice Bradley delivering the opinion, that a court of
equity will not entertain jurisdiction to set aside the probate
of a will, on the ground of fraud, mistake or forgery, this

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

being within the exclusive jurisdiction of the probate court;
and that it will not give relief by charging the purchasers at
the executor's sale, under the orders of the probate court, and
those deriving title from them, as trustees, in favor of a third
person, alleged to be defrauded by the forged or fraudulent
will, where the court of probate could afford relief, in whole
or in part.
With the single exception that that case was brought to
set aside the probate of a will, and this was brought to set
aside the granting of letters of administration upon a succession, the two cases are as much alike as two photographs of
the same person, the lineaments of the alleged fraud being
more distinctly brought out in the bill in the case of Broderick'ys Will, than in the bill in this case. Both were bills in
equity, brought by the alleged heirs-at-law of a decedent, to
set aside and annul a decree of a court of probate, and all
the subsequent proceedings, including the order of sale and
the sale itself. Both alleged fraud in the procurement of the
respective decrees, and knowledge of the fraud by the defendants -actual knowledge in the Broderick Case, and constructive knowledge in this case. Both showed a long period of
delay-nine years in the Broderick Case, and eighteen in
this case, and both set up ignorance of the facts as the excuse
for laches ; and in both cases, according to the averments of
the bill in each, the probate court had adequate power to
afford relief. See also Ellis v. Davis, 109 U. S. 485. We
think the decision in that case is applicable to the whole of
this case upon the question of fraud, and thus obviates the
necessity of adverting any further to the question of the establishment of a trust, as against the defendant, in favor of the
complainants.

Decree qfflrmed.

