OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

HAN-ER v. MOULTON.
APPEATL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN
No. 171.

DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

Argued and submitted January 28, 29, 1891.-Decided March 2,1891.

In this case it was held that a suit in equity, by persons claiming*lands in
Texas, under a will, to set aside deeds under which the defendants
claimed title, through a sale by an administrator of the testator with the
will annexed, was barred by the laches of the plaints.
IN EQUITY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

.1r. JamesD
D. Park for appellants.
-Yfr. Sawnie liobertsmo, for appellees, submitted on his brief.
RIR.
JUSTICE

BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity, filed January 27, 1882, in the Circuit
Court of the United- States for the Northern District of Texas,
by John W. Hanner, Jr., James D. Park, and John S. Park,
Jr., against Lewman G. Moulton, M. C. Moulton, 0. iR. Beaty,
Clement R. Johns,. J. 0. Kerby, Flavius Everett, W. Von
Rosenburg, and the corporation of C. R. Johns & Company,
to establish the title of the plaintiffs to three several tracts
of land in the State of Texas, one of 586 acres in Ellis County,
one of 640 acres in Falls County, and one of 250 acres in Clay
County. The bill prayed that the deeds under which the
defendants claimed title to such land might be declared null
and void. The plaintiffs asserted title to it as devisees under
the will of Thomas Park, who died in the State of Tennessee,
where he resided, on September 4, 1866, leaving a last will
and testament, executed March 20, 1866, one clause of which
was as follows: "I will to John W. Hanner, Junior, James
Park, and John Park, Junior, my tract of land, containing
near fifteen hundred acres first-rate land, lying, I believe, in
Ellis County, Texas. My papers are in the hands of. J. A. N.

HR4.NNER v. MOULTON.
Opinion of the Court.

Murray and William H. Gill, of Clarksville, Texas, who must
account for all papers of mine found in the hands of William
A. Park's widow at his death. All other lands I may own, and
not disposed of by will,.may be given to Dr. Jas. P. Hanner."
The testator did not own at any time any land in Ellis
County, Texas, and the defendants insisted that he did not own
any other land in Texas to which the devise referred or could
refer ; but at the time of his death he owned what was called
a head-right certificate for one-third of a league, or 1476 acres,
of land, issued by the Republic of Texas, May 3, 1838, to William H. Ewing, Ewing having conveyed to the testator by
deed dated April 9, 1946, all his right, title and interest to
the land which had been or might be located and surveyed by
virtue of such head-right certificate, the deed warranting to
the grantee the peaceable possession of the land against all
claims to be made under the grantor. By a codicil to his will,
executed August 25, 1866, the testator appointed James P.
Hanner his executor. The will was admitted to probate in
the probate court in' Tennessee, and letters testamentary
thereon were issued to James P. Hanner.
Subsequently, and on July 8, 1867, at the instince of the
Tennessee executor, Clement R. Johns, one of the defendants
in this suit, applied to the county judge of Travis County, in
the State of Texas, sitting as a probate court, praying that
letters of administration might be issued to him o the estate
of James Park, with the will annexed, and produced a certified copy of the will, with satisfactory evidence of the probate
thereof in Tennessee; and it was admitted'to probate in Texas,
and letters of administration with the will annexed were
granted to Johns, at the July term, 1867. At the same term,
he presented to the probatecourt of Travis County an inventory of the -estate, which did not include the 1476 acres, but
stated that there were other lands in the State claimed by the
heirs, which would be reported by him as soon as a knowledge
of the same could be obtained by him sufficient to identify
them. On January 1, 1869, Johns filed in the probate court
a supplemental inventory, which stated that, since filing the
original inventory, he had found a land certificate belonging

OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

to the estate, for one-third of a league, or 1476 acres, granted
to W. H. Ewing and transferred by the -latter to James Park,
and which was appraised January 1, 1869, by appraisers appointed by the court, at the value of $200; afid that that was
all the additional property to which title had been discovered.
He further stated that, the certificate being lost, he had
obtained a duplicate of it, and asked for an order to sell it, to
pay the expenses of administration and the expenses of looking up the estate, which then amounted to ovei $100. The
court thereupon made an order that he proceed .to sell the
land certificate, for cash, on the first Tuesday in February,
1869, after giving due notice. On the 26th of February, 1869,
on the representation of the administrator to the court that
by'accidental omission the sale had not taken place, it made
an order that he sell the certificate for cash.on the first Tuesday in April, 1869, on giving due notice; and that he return
an account of sale to the court. On the 3d of June, 1869, he
reported to the court that on the first Tuesday in April, 1869,
he had sold the certificate, as the.property of the estate, to
J. 0. Kerby, the highest and best bidder, for 71 cents per
acre, making, for the 1476 acres, $110.70, which he stated he
believed to be a fair price, under the circumstances connected
with the title; and he recommended a confirmation of the
sale. Thereupon, on the same day, the court made an order
approving and confirming the sale, and directing the administrator to divest title out of the former owner and to vest it
in the purchaser, after his compliance with the terms of sale.
In October, 1871, Johns, as administrator, presented to the
county court of Travis County his account of debits and
credits, showing, among other things, the receipt of the
$110.70 for the "sale of one-third-league cert. doubtful title,"
and a balance on hand, belonging to the estate, of $11.38 in
United States currency, and representino "that all the propertv of the said estate of James Park, except the land certificate which was found by the administrator, has been disposed
Of by the last will of the deceased," and asking to be discharged. No action appears to have been had by the court
in regard to this account or to a discharge. Kerby, the pur-

HANIER v. MOULTON.
Opinion of the Court.

chaser, afterwards located the certificate on the three tracts
of land above mentioned.
On August 28, 1882, an amended and supplemental bill was
filed by the plaintiffs, adding as defendants James -P. Hanner,
the Tennessee executor, Robert Smith, Thomas D. Johns, W. B.
Blalock and A. J. P. Johnson. The gravamen of the two bills
was, that the proceedings of Clement R. Johns, the Texas administrator, in the probate court of Travis County, by which
he obtained the order for the sale of the certificate, and. the
sale itself, were fraudulent; that Kerby, the purchaser, had
knowledge of and participated in the fraud; and that the
other defendants, who were in possession of the three tracts
of land, claiming title to them under Kerby, botght with
notice of the fraud.
Answers to the bill were put in by James P. Hanner,
'Kerby, Clement R. Johns, Von Rosenburg, Everett, Beaty, the
two Moultons, Smith, Blalock and Johnson. M. C. Moulton
having died, the suit was revived against his devisees, legatees
.and executor. Thomas D. Johns, and the executor and devisees
of M. C. Moulton, subsequently answered the bill. It was set
up in the answer of Beaty, that the claim of the plaintiffs was
barred by the laws of limitation of Texas before the commencement of the suit, and that the demand was stale; and
in the answer of M. C. Moulton, that, the claim of the plaintiffs, if any they ever had, was stale, on account of their laches
and gross and inexcusable neglect to make known or assert
their claim; and in the answers of Smith and Johnson, that
the suit was barred by the statutes of limitation of Texas;
and in the answer of Clement R. Johns, that the claim of the
plaintiffs was stale and barred by reason of laches; and in the
answer.of Kerby, that the plaintiffs' demand was stale and
barred by the law of limitations.
Replications having been filed to the various answers, proofs
were taken, and the cause was heard before Mr. Justice Woods,
and Judge McCormick, District Judge, and on the 10th of
February, 1885, a decree was entered dismissing the bill. The
opinion of Mr. justice Woods is repbrted in 23 Fed. Rep. 5.
He disposed of the case on the following ground, as stated in

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

his opinion: "Upon the trial of the case, the plaintiffs, conceding that the t~stator at his death owned no land in Ellis
County, or elsewhere in Texas, to which said devise referred,
to prevent the devise from being inoperative, and to prove
their title to the lands in question, offered evidence tending to
show that the testator, when he executed his will, and at the
time of his death, believed that the Ewing head-right certificate had been located in Ellis County, making him the owner
of the lands covered thereby; that it was the purpose of the
testator, shown by his declarations to and conversations with
the witnesses, to devise to the plaintiffs the Ewing certificate,
if it should turn out that it had not been located; and that
he was advised by the lawyer who drew his will that the
devise above quoted would be effectual to carry out such
purpose. The contention of the plaintiffs was, that if this
evidence was admitted, it would show them to be the owners
of the Ewing head-right certificate under the devise in the
will of James Park, and establish their title to the lands
located by Kerby under that certificate. It is evident that
the title of the -plaintiffs to the relief prayed by their bill
depends upon the admissibility of this evidence. The defendants object to the testimony. I am of opinion that the objection is well taken, and that the evidence should be excluded."
He further said: "I think this is a case for the enforcement
of the rule which excludes parol evidence to alter or add to
the terms of a will. I am, therefore, of opinion that the
evidence offered should be excluded. Without its aid, the
plaintiffs show no ground for the relief prayed in their bill.
It must therefore be dismissed, at their costs; and it is so
ordered."
We do not find it necessary to consider the case in the view
in which the Circuit Court considered it; for we are of opinion
that the claim of the plaintiffs must fail on the ground of
laches.
-Patents were issued by the State of Texas for the three
tracts of land in question in the name of James Park, assignee
of William H. Ewing,." lhis heirs or assigns forever," as follows:
February 17, 1870, for the 586 acres in Ellis County; March 5,

HANNER v. MOULTON.
Opinion of the Court.

1870, for the 640 acres in Falls County; and June 24, 1873,
for the 250 acres in Clay County; and such patents were duly
recorded in the respective counties. It was a custom in the
land office of Texas not to issue patents to assignees who
derived their title through *a judicial sale, and therefore all
these patents were issued in the name of James Park.
In 1876, the plaintiffs put a tenant in possession of a large
part of the 586 acres in Ellis County, and L. G. Moulton, who
claimed title to the land, brought an action of trespass to try
title against the tenant, in the District Court of Ellis County,
on March 27, 1879; which suit was removed into the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Texas.
The plaintiffs in the present suit were made parties defendant
to that suit, and part of the prayer of the bill in the present
suit is to enjoin such action at law of L. G. Moulton.
Kerby was the holder of the legal title to the certificate and
the legal title to the land; and he and the defendants who
derived their title from him became the owners of such legal
title. This was so, even if the sale was fraudulent. If the
certificate was by the will bequeathed to the plaintiffs, and
even if the sale was fraudulent, the interest which the plaintiffs had, after the sale of the certificate, was not an interest
of any kind, legal or equitable, in it or in the land, but only
the right promptly to disaffirm the sale and institute a proceeding, in a reasonable time, to have it set aside, and thus
reacquire the certificate or the land located under it. Perry
on Trusts, § 602w; 2 Pomeroy's Equity, §§ 818, 917; 2 Story's
Eq. Jur. § 1520; Pearson v. Burditt, 26 Texas, 157.
The sale in question was confirmed by a proper decree of
the probate court of Travis County. Limitation of the right
of review was two years after the date of the decree. Rev.
-Stat. of Texas, Article 1389, enacted-in 1846.
Further, a bill to review a decree Iiii equity was authorized
by the act of February 5, 1841, (1 Paschal's Dig. p. -64, Article
4616,) if brought not more than two 'years after the decree
should have been made final. This applies to proceedings in
the probate court. Kleh2ecke v. TWoodward, 42 Texas, 811;
.Murchison v. White '.54 Texas, 78, 86..

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

'Since 1841, 1 Paschal's Dig. p. 758, Article 46041, the limitation of a suit in' Texas to recover personal property, or
damages for its conversion, has been two years; and by 1
Paschal's Digest, p. 766, Article 4622, three .years bars a suit
for land if the defendant has color of title. All of these defendants had color of title, within the meaning of that statute.
By 1 Paschal's Digest, p. 767, Article 4623, a suit for land, if
the defendant claims under a registered deed, is barred in five
years. By the Revised Statutes of Texas, Article 3209, p.
465, a suit for the specific performance of a contract to convey
real estate is barred in ten years, ten years being the longest
period of limiitation under the statutes of Texas.
In the present case, there is no question of minority or of
any other disability. It is alleged, however, that the cause of
action was concealed; but the order of shle, the report of sale,
and the order confirming the sale, were of record in the probate court of Travis Cpunty. The plaintiffs knew, or had the
means of knowing, of the granting of administration in Texas,
'and in what court the proceeding was pending. The administrator reported that Kerby was the purchaser. The connection of Kerby with C. R. Johns & Company was no secret.
The records of the land office of the State showed, as early as
M .arch 23, 1870, that a certificate for the unlocated balance,
which was afterwards, located in Clay Coiunty, had been delivered to C. R. Johns & Company. On the information disclosed by those records, the plaintiffs in 1876 assumed to own
the 586 acres of land in Ellis County, and sold part of it and
leased the rest. This was done under a power of attorney
executed by the three plaintiffs, on February 15, 1876, to
Gyrfis T. Hogan, a real estate agent of Ellis County, Texas,
constituting him their agent to sell the 586 acres in that
county, and to sign their names to transfers and releases necessary to confer the title to the land; and they executed a
further power of attorney to Hogan, on September 25, 1876,
authorizing him to sell and convey all their interest in the W.
H. Ewing one-third league survey or certificate, wherever it
might be located in the State of Texas, as having been willed
to them by James Park, and to perform all legal acts in the

HAYNER v. MOULTON.
Opinion of the Court.

management of the certificate, or the land located by virtue
of it, and to sign their names to conveyances of any nature
or kind.
It is stated in the original bill that neither the plaintiffs nor
the Tennessee executor ever heard of the settlement of October, 1871, by Johns, as administrator, in the probate court, in
October, 1871, until about the year 1877 or the latter part of
1876, when the knowledge first came to them through information from their agent in Ellis County, Texas. That agent
was Hogan. James D. Park, one of the plaintiffs, in his
testimony, produces a letter from Hogan, dated September 20,
1876, to Doctor John S. Park, and states that he first learned
through that letter that the firm of C. R. .Johns & Company
were claiming the land in Ellis County, and also the remainder
of the land called for by the ceftificate, some of which was in
Falls County. Doctor John S. Park was a witness in the case,
and was a nephew of the testator, an uncle of the plaintiff
John W. Hanner, Jr., and the father of the other two plaintiffs. In that letter, Hogan informed Doctor Park that C. R.
Johns administered on the estate of James Park in 1869, and
sold the W. H. Ewing certificate to J. C. Kerby; and that, on
an examination of the record, he, Hogan, found a transfer
from Johns, as administrator, to Kerby. On the 26th of September, 1876, Hogan wrote another letter to 'Doctor John S.
Park, which is produced, stating that a la'wyer, whom Hogan
had consulted on the subject of the sale of the Ewing certificate by Johns, as administrator, said that it would not "stick
at all," but advised action at once.
If the plaintiffs, in 1816, on the information disclosed by
the records, assumed to own, to sell a part of, and to lease another part of, the 586 acres of land in Ellis County, thus acting.on the view that the sale did not deprive them of their
interest in the land, the same information was sufficient to
dema-dd and to justify a suit. The explanation of the delay
may be connected with the fact, that the certificate, when it
was sold, was valued at $200, while, when the bill in the present case was filed, the three tracts of land were worth, as is
testified, from $8600 to $10,600.

49i

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Moreover, the evidence shows that in January, 1871, James
D. Park, one of the plaintiffs, was in Austin, Texas, saw
Clement R. Johns, went to the land bffice and looked at the
record books, and found in °he of them an entry that the
balance of the Ewing claim, not patented, had been delivered
to C. R. Johns & Company on the 23d of March, 1870; that
he afterwards had an interview with Clement R. Johns on the
subject and told him -what he had seen at the land office, and
asked him if he knew what had ever become of the Ewing
certificate; and that he learned from Johns that a duplicate
of it, for one-third of a league, had been sold at public auction in Austin, in 1868, by Johns, as administrator of James
Park, to pay expenses, etc., of administration. James D. Park
states in his testimony, that the transaction ought to have
been investigated then and there, and gives as an excuse for
not doing so, that Johns treated the matter very lightly, and
as of little or no consequence, and also stated that he did not
recollect who was the purchasor of the certificate. He also
testifies, that, on returning to Tennessee, he mentioned to the
Tennessee executor and to others, of the family, what 'had
occurred at Austin, and requested the executor to write to
Mr. Green, a lawyer at Austin, to look into the sale of the
Ewing certificate, and see if it could not be got back in some
way or replaced by Johns; that the executor got letters from
M r. Green, promising to look into the matter, but nothing further or definite was done or reported to the executor, "the
parties probably being too much engaged in other matters to
give it proper attention;" that through Hogan he learned,
in 1876 or 1875, that a portion of the Ewing certificate had
been located in Ellis County, and that a patent was on record
there to James Park -and his heirs for 586 acres of the Ewing
certificate; and that his father then wrote to Hogan to take
possession of the land for the plaintiffs, and instructed Hogan
to, investigate the sources of the supposed title of C. R. Johhs
& Company to the lands, and report the results, after which
Doctor John S. Park recdived frbm Hogan: the letters of Septemb3r 20 and September 26, 1876, followed soon afterwards
by a paper sent by Hogan to the witness, which was a copy

HAXNER .v. AIOULTOX.
Opinion of the Court.

obtained from the public records of Ellis County, and which
is produced, showing that it was a copy of the conveyance
made by Johns, as administrator, to Kerby, of the certificate,
and which recited that he had sold the certificate, on the 6th
of April, 1869, to Kerby, for $110.70, and that the sale had
been confirmed by the court at the May term, 1869.
Even in 1876, when the plaintiffs knew all that they knew
when they filed the bill in 1882, and had no title but only the
right to go into a court of equity, they brought no suit, but
contented themselves with assuming that they owned the 586
acres in Ellis County. Their assuming possession of 'that tract
of land did not excuse them from prosecuting a suit. Walet v.
Taskins, 68 Texas, 4118 ; BuZlock v. Smith, 72 Texas, 545, 549.
An interval of nearly thirteen years elapsed between the
sale of the certificate and the filing of the bill in this suit.
The value of the property has largely increased. Parties
interested and witnesses have died, and the memory of those
who survive has decayed. Not a person who is now interested in any of the land is implicated in the fraud charged in
the bill. Under the facts above stated, the plaintiffs have
been guilty of such laches that they cannot have any relief in
a court of equity. Speidel v. Bertrici, 120 U. S. 377, 387, and
cases there cited; Richards v. .AXaokall, 124 U. S. 183, 187, 188.
Nor are the decisions of the courts of Texas inconsistent
with the sustaining of this defence of laches. In Fisher v.
Wood, 65 Texas, 199, it was held that a party would be relieved from the charge of laches, where facts were shown calculated to lull inquiry, and the fraud was not discovered until
about three months before the suit was brought. In Rowe v.
Horton, 65 Texas, 89, as against a claim to relief in equity
against a deed where more than ten years had elapsed between
the date of its execution and the bringing of the suit, it was
held that the plaintiff might, by reasonable diligence, have
sooner discovered the mistake which was the alleged grournd
of relief, although it was not in fact discovered by her until
within a few months before the suit was brought; and the
same doctrine was applied in Parish,v. Aiston, 65 Texas, 194.
-Decree affirmed.

