DUCIE v. FORD.
Syllabus.

regation surveys," as used in the act of 1866, means such segregation surveys as are defined and described by the aforesaid
act of the legislature of the State, and are made by state
officers; and it would seem, therefore, that whether or not a
survey made by an officer of the State is a segregation survey, as defined by the act of the state legislature- is one on
which this court will follow the decision of the state court. It
is in reality a construction of a state statute. The Supreme
Court of the State has invariably held such maps or plats not
to be the segregation maps referred to in th act of July 23,
1866. Sutton v. Fassett, 51 California, 12; Pe(qle v. Cowell,
60 California, 400. For these reasons we hold that the second
specification of error cannot be sustained.
There are no other features of the case that call for further
consideration or even special mention. We see no error in
the decision of the Supreme Court of California prejudicial to
the plaintiff in error, and its judgment is

Afflrned.

DUCIE v. FORD.
APPRA

FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
MONTANA.
No. 777. Submitted January 8,1891.-Decided March 2,1891.

A trust may result to him who pays the consideration for real estate where
the title is taken out in the name of another, which is not within the
statute of frauds, and it may be shown, by parol testimony, whose money
was actually paid for it; but such.trust must have arisen at the time the
purchase was made, and the whole consideration must have been paid or
secured at the time of, or prior to, the purchase, and a bill in equity to
enforce it must show without ambiguity or equivocation that the whole
of the consideration appropriate to that share of the land which the
plaintiff claims by virtue of such payment, was paid before the deed was
taken.
Two parties had located and claimed a lode. Plaintiffs were preparing to
contest defendant's application for a patent when it was agreed oral:.
that they should relinquish to him such possession as they had, in consideration of his agreeing to purchase the land upon their joint account.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.
He took out a patent and worked the lode. In an action to have him
decreed to hold one-half as trustee for the plaintiffs, Held, that such
taking possession was not part performance of the contract so as to
take it out of the statute of frauds.

Tnis was an appeal from a decree of the Supreme Court of
the Territory of Montana sustaining a demurrer to a complaint originally filed in the Second Judicial District of such
Territory. The complaint set forth in substance that the
plaintiffs on September 18, 1888, "became possessed of and
owned" certain premises upon which they had discovered a
vein or lode of valuable quartz; that they "duly located"
such lode "as a mining claim" under the laws of the United
States, "and posted a notice of such location," and established
'by posts and corners, boundaries thereto, designating it as the
"Figi" lode; and further claimed to have possessed and owned
said premises up to the 15th of March, 1881, when the defendant was about to procure a patent to himself for the same
premises "under a pretended location and claim designated
by him as the 'Odin' lode." The plaintiffs apprised the defendant of their claim and notified him that they "would
adverse and contest" his application for a patent. Thereupon
they "entered into a mutual and verbal agreement" by which
it was understood, that in consideration of the plaintiffs'
"promising and agreeing to relinquish and give up the possession of such premises" to the defendant, and to abstain from
filing any adverse claim or protest against defendant's application for a patent, and to permit him to proceed and procure
a patent, the defendant agreed that he would be tenant in
ccmmon of the plaintiffs in an undivided half of the premises;
that plaintiffs and defendant should purchase the premises
jointly, but in defondant's name,, defeidant acting as "purchasing agent and as trustee of the plaintiffs," and that after
the issuance of a patent, defendant would execute and deliver
to plaintiffs a deed of an undivided half of the premises; that
relying on defendant's honesty, the plaintiffs relinquished and
delivered up possession to the defendant, withdrew all objeotions to defendant's claim, and permitted him to procure a
patent, and "from time to time thereafter" paid him their

DUCIE v. FORD.
Argument for Appellants.

share of the purchase-money of the premises; and that a
patent was subsequently issued to defendant .inpursuance of
such agreement, but he refused, and still refuses to convey
their share to the plaintiffs.
The prayer was as follows: First, that defendant be declared
to hold the legal title to an undivided half of said-premises as
trustee for the plaintiffs. Second, that he be directed to execute a deed of such undivided half to plaintiffs. Third, that
he be required to account to them for the rents, issues and
profits accrued from such undivided half. Defendant demurred upon the ground: First, that the complaint set forth
a contract within the statute of frauds; that no part performance was averred, and that mere delivery of possession to
another does not pass title and cannot be given in evidence
as affecting the transfer of real estate. Second, that tho complaint is ambiguous, uncertain and unintelligible in that it
does not show how much or at what, times plaintiffs were to
pay to defendant any money, nor what amount of money
they are willing to pay, and they make no tender. The demurrer was sustai6ed, an appeal was taken to the Supreme
Court of the Territory i and the judgment of the court below
affirmed. Plaintiffs thereupon appealed from such affirmance
to this court.
.Mr. WMalter H. Smith for appellants.
I. The case made in rme complaint is one of a resulting
trust, and, therefore, within the exception of the Statute of
Frauds.
It is a resulting trust, because the purchase-money was paid
to the defendant for one undivided half of the premises before
the purchase from the government. I know that the court
below assumed that it was paid aJfpr the purchase, but I take
issue with it upon the fact. That depids upon the language
and construction of the complaint. As I read it the 6ourt
below ws in error, -and clearly in errer. T.e complaint
alleges that the plaintiffs were in possesgon ott the 18th of
September, 1878, and continued in possession until the 15th of

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Appellants.

March, 1881; that in the month of February, 1881, the agreement was made by which the defendant was to be let into
-possession, and purchase the premises jointly, and that they
"thereafter paid to defendant their share of the purchasemoney of said premises, and that thereafter, to wit, on or
about the 15th of May, 1881, the defendant, in pursuance of
said agreement and of said trust, purchased from the United
States of America, for the use and benefit of the plaintiffs, an
undivided one-half of said premises, as well as another undivided one-half for his own use and benefit, and took from the
register and receiver of said land office a certain final receipt
for the puichase price of said premises."
Here is a specific allegation that plaintiff's share of the purchase-money was paid to the defendant before he purchased
of the United States.
Such payment, by operation of law, created a resulting trust
in the defendant for. the benefit of the plaintiffs, and by all
the authorities, and they are exceedingly numerous, took theL
.case out of the statute. Browne on the Statute of Frauds,
83. Story Eq. Jur. ยง 1201.
II. Taking possession under the contract is such part performance as takes the case out of the statute.
That such possession was taken is admitted by the demurrer.
The complaint alleges that the plaintiffs were in possession
when the contract was made, and that they agreed "to relinquish and give up the possession of said premises to said defendant," and "that, relying upon the good faith and honesty
of the defendant, plaintiffs thereupon relinquished and delivered their possession of said premises to the defendant, and
that the defendant then and there was admitted and went
into possession of the same in ompliance with and under said
agreement and said trust."
If the defendant "went into possession" under said agreement he could not have been in possession before. To pretend
that he was, is giving.to the language used an entirely different
signification from what would be generally understood, and is.
dbing yiolence to the plain meaning of the words.

DUCIE v. FORD.
Opinion of the Court.

Ar. -. F. .,orris for appellee.
MR. JUSTiCE

Baowx delivered the opinion of the court.

By Rev. Stat. see. 2319, all valuable mineral deposits in
lands belonging to the United States are declared -to be free
and open to exploration and purchase "'by citizens of the
United States and those who have declared their intention to
become such, under regulations prescribed by law." By sec.
2324, the miners of each mining district may make regulations
not in conflict with the laws of the United States, or of the
State or Territory, governing the location, manner of recording and amount of work necessary to hold possession of a
uining claim, subject to the requirement, among others, that
upon each claim located after -May 10, 1872, and until a
patent has been issued therefor, not less than one hundred
.dollars' worth of labor shall be performed or improvements
made during each year." By see. 2325, a patent for any land
so claimed and located may be obtained by filing in the proper
land office an application, showing compliance with the terms
of the act, together with the plat and field-notes, showing the
boundaries of the claim, which shall be distinctly marked by
monuments, and by posting a copy of such plat, with the
notice of such application for a patent, in a conspicuous place
on the land, etc. See. 2326 provides also for proceedings
upon filing adverse claims, declaring that it shall be the duty
of the adverse claimant, within thirty days after- filing his
claim, to commence proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction, to determine the question of the right of possession,
and prosecute the sane with reasonable diligence to final
judgment.
The sole question in this case is whether the con 'act between these parties is not within the Statute of Frauds.' See.
217 of the compiled Statutes of Montana declares that "n o
estate or interest in lands . .
shall hereafter be created,
granted, assigned, surrendered or declared, unless by act or
operation of law, or by deed or conveyance in: writing,"
etc. -To take the case out of the operation of the statute,-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiffs claim, first, that the transaction constitutes a trust
by operatioAi of law, and is, therefore, within the express
exception of see. 217: second, that there was such part performance, by taking possession under the contract, as takes it
out of the statute.
1. While there is no doubt of the general proposition that
a trust results to him who pays the consideration for an estate,
where the title is taken in the name of another; that such
trust is not within the statute, and that parol evidence is admissible to show whose money is actually paid for the property; it is equally clear that the trust must have arisen at
the time the purchase was made, and that the whole consideration mast have been paid or secured at the time of or
prior to such purchase; Olcott v. Bynum, 17 Wall. 44; White
v. Carpenter, 2 Paige, 217, 241; Buck v. Swazey, 35 Maine,
41; 1 Perry on Trusts, sec. 133; 2 Pom. Eq. Jur. see. 1037.
But, as before stated, parol evidence is competent to prove
that the consideration actually moved from the cestui que
trust. Boyd v. .McLean, 1 Johns. Oh. 582; Baker v. 'ining,
30 Maine, 121; Whitmore *. Learned, 70 Maine, 276; Page v.
Page,8 N. I. 187, 195; 2 Pomeroy Eq. Jur. see. 1040. It
follows that the bill or. complaint should show, without ambiguity or equivocation, that the whole of the consideration
appropriate to that share of the land which the plaintiffs
claim by virtue of such payment, was paid before the deed
was takem Tested by these rules, we think the plaintiffs
have failed to make out their case with that clearness which
the law demands. They aver that after they had delivered
up possession of the. premises to the defendant, "they withdrew all objections, protest and adverse claims to or against
the defendant's claim, and abstained 'from filing any adverse
claim or protest in the United States Land Office against
defendant's application, and thereby permitted and enabled
the defendant to procure a patent for said premises, and from
time to time thereafter paid to defendant their share of the
purchase-money of said premises, and that thereafter, to wit,
on or about the 15th day of May,-1881, the defendant, in pursuance of said agreement and of said trust, purchased from the

DUCIE v. FORD.
Opinion of the Court.

United States of America for the use and benefitof the plaintiffs, an undivided half of said premises," etc. And they
further aver in a subsequent allegation that "if there be, or
if defendant claims that there is, anything or any amount due
by plaintiffs in connection with the procuring of said patent,
or with said agreement, the plaintiffs are ready and willing
and fully able to pay the same. and offer to do so; that the
defendant has refused to inform plaintiffs whether there was,
or whether he claimed that there was, any money or thing
due from the plaintiffs, although requested to do so, and that
plaintiffs had many times offered to pay defendant' whatever
he might claim that there was due in said connection, and
that defendant has refused, and that on account of said
refusals of defendant plaintiffs are not informed in relation to.
said matter." Not only is there a failure to aver when and
how much money was paid before the purchase was made,.
but the first allegation above quoted leaves a doubt whether
the payment was made before or after the patent was takenIn one place they say that they thereby permitted and enabled the defendant to procure a patent for said premises,.
and from time to time thereafter paid the defendant, and
immediately follow it by an averment that thereafter, to wit,
on or about the fifteenth day of May, the defendant made the
purchase. The subsequent allegation throws additional doubt
upon the question, and, in fact, is susceptible of the implication that plaintiffs were by no means confident that they had
paid any considerable amQunt, but were willing to pay their
share upon being informed of the amount still due.
We think the contention of the plaintiffs that a trust is
made out by operation of law is not sustained. The allegations amount to nothing more than that they made certain
advances of money to defendant for the purchase of this
interest; but when or in what form or at what time such advances were made is left entirely unanswered. As plaintiffs
have chosen to stand upon their complaint without apparently
asking leave to amend, which we cannot doubt would have
been readily granted, we are constrained to hold the allegations.
insufficient to create a trust.
VOL. bxxxvm--38

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

2. Was there a part performance of the parol contract with
thd defendant sufficient to take the case out of the statute?
The only act alleged in that connection is the surrender of possession to the defendant; or in the language of the complaint,
that "1relying upon the good faith and honesty of the defendant, plaintiffs thereupon relinquished and delivered their possession of said premises to the defendant, and that the defendant then and there was admitted and went into possession of
the same in compliance with and under said agreement and
said trust." This, however, must be taken in connection with
the prior allegation that the "1defendant was about to proceed
to procure a patent" to himself for the same premises, "under
a pretended location and claim designated by him as the
Odin lode;" whereupon plaintiffs apprised him that they
"claimed, owned, and possessed said premises," and would
adverse and contest his application. Now conceding that the
sukrenddr of possession to the defendant is a sufficient performance to take a case out of. the statute, such surrender
must be made in pursuance of the contract, and be referable
to it. In short, it must be a new possession under the contract,
and not merely the continuance of a former possession claimed
under a different right or title. Pomeroy on Contracts, see.
116, 123; Mforphett v. Jones, 1 S vans. 172;, Wills v. Stradling,
3 Yesey, Jr. 378; Anderson v. Chick, 1 Bailey's Eq. 118;
Smith v. Smit, 1 Rich. Eq. 130; Jacobs v. PeterborougA &
Shirley Railroad Co., 8 jOush. 223; Jones v.! Peterman, 3 S.
& R. 543; Christy v. Bar hart, 14: Penn. St. 260; Johnston
v. Glancy, 4 Blackford;'94:. As stated by Mr. Justice Grier in
Pur
cel v. finbr, 4 Wall. 513, 518, delivery of possession
will not be satisfied by proof of a scrambling and litigious
possession.".
Taking the averments of the complaint together, it appears
that both these parties had located and claimed this lode, and
.that ,plaintiffs were preparing to adverse and contest defend'ant's application for a patent when a bargain was made between them, by which it was ag'reed that plaintiffs should
relinquish pevh possession as they had to defendant in consideritior "of the latter agreeing to purchase the land upon

NEW ORLEANS v. GAINES'S ADMINISTRATOR.

595

Syllabus.

their joint account. In Clinan v. Cooke, 1 Sch. & Lef. 22,
41, Lord Redesdale indicated, as a test, whether the party let
into possession could have been treated as a trespasser in'the
absence of the parol agreement, and this has been accepted by
many writers upon equity jurisprudence as a most satisfactory
criterion. Now, it does not appear in this case that the antecedent relations of the defendant to this land were changed by
reason of this contract, and it does appear that the only change
that took place, in fact, arose from .the plaintiffs' withdrawal
in favor of the defendant, and fromi their refraining to prosecute an adverse claim which wAs never filed. This would
clearly be insufficient to take the case out of the statute. If,
in fact, plaintiffs had been in the exclusive possession of the
lode in question, and defendant had never been in possession
or exercised acts of ownership until the bargain was made
between them, and the plaintiffs had surrendered possession
in pursuance of the contract, it would have been easy to set
forth such facts in unequivocal terms, and not have left them
to be inferred from the ambiguous averments of this complaint.
There was no error in sustaining the demurrer, and the
judgment of the court below must be

NEW ORLEANS v. GAINES'S ADMINISTRATOR.
GAINES'S ADMINISTRATOR v. NEW ORLEANS.
APPEALS FROINI THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Nos.1293, 1320. Argued January 15, 16, 1891. -Decided March 2,1891.

This suit was commenced in August, 1879, and was brought against the
city of New Orleans to recover the rents, fruits, revenues and profits of
135 arpents of laud, situated in the city, from the year 1837 to the time
of the accounting sought. This land had been purchased by the city
from one Evariste Blanc in 1834, and afterwards disposed of to various
parties, except four or five blocks reserved for city purposes, which
were not in question. The city was sought to be charged with all the
rents, fruits and revenues of the land, whether in its own possession
dr in the possession of its grantees. In two previous suits brought

