OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

BEARDSLEY v. BEARDSLEY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 119. Submitted December 12, 1890.-

Decided February 2, 1891.

The appellant signed and delivered to the appellee a paper in which he said,
"I hold of the stock of the Washington and Hope Railway Company
$33,250 or 1350 shares, which is sold to Paul F. Beardsley [the appellee],
and which, though standing in my name, belongs to him, subject to a
payment of $8000, with interest at same rate, and -from same date as
interest on my purchase of Mr. Alderman's stock." Held, that this was
an executed contract, by which the ownership of the stock passed to the
appellee, with a reservation of title, simply as security for the purchase
money.
On the second questign at issue the court holds that the contested facts
establish a joint interest in the parties in the railroad enterprises which
form the subject of the controversy, and not a mere stock transaction.

THIS was a suit in equity brought by the appellee as plaintiff below, against the appellant and the Arkansas and Louisiana Railway Company to enforce the rights of the plaintiff in
the railway, under certain alleged trusts. The material facts
in this controversy were stated by the court as follows:
The undisputed facts of this case are as follows: On January 1, 1882, appellant signed and delivered to appellee the
following instrument:
" W, H. Carruth, President. J. D. Beardsley, Superintendent.
"Superintendent's Office, Washington and Hope Railway
Company,
"Washington, Ark.,
Jan. 1st, 1882.
"I hold of the stock of the Washington and Hope Railway
Company thirty-three thousand two hundred and fifty dollars,
or thirteen hundred and fifty shares, which is sold to Paul F.
Beardsley, and which, though standing in my name, belongs
to. him, subject to a payment of eight thousand dollars, with

BEARDSLEY v. BEARDSLEY.
Statement of the Case.

interest at same rate and from same date as interest on my
purchase of Mr. Alderman's stock.
J. D. BEA&nDsrmy."
"Witness: ,J. H. BURT.
The parties to the litigation are brothers. Prior to the execution of this instrument, and in 1877, the Washington and
Hope Railway Company had been incorporated for the purpose of building a railroad between Washington, in Hempstead
County, and Hope Station, on the Iron Mountain and Southern Railway, a distance of ten miles. On September 10, 1879,
the company, having graded a road-bed, entered into a contract with appellant for the completion and equipment of the
road, the consideration of which contract, on the part of the
railroad company, was, among other things, the transfer,
practically, of the entire stock in the company to appellant.
In the execution of this contract, appellant associated Vinton
Alderman, under an agreement that they would contribute
equally to the expense and divide equally the stock of the
company. By the first of January, 1881, the contractors had
complied with the contract and completed the road, and it
was accepted as of that date by the company; and paid-up
stock to the amQunt of one hundred thousand dollars was
issued to them, excepting therefrom a few shares to persons to
qualify them to be directors of the company. Alderman
became tired of his investment and proposed to sell 'his interest. This proposition, made to J. W. Paramore, president of
the Texas and St: Louis Railway Company, came to the
knowledge of appellant. Fearing complications if the sale
should be made to that party, he wrote to Alderman offering
to buy the stock for twelve thousand dollars, on a credit.
This offer was accepted,-and the stocl transferred to appellant, who thereby became the owner of substantially all the
paid-up stock of the company. After such! purchase he executed the instrumeig of Jnuary 1, 1882. - Prior to this purchase, from Alderman by appellant, appellee'had come from
California and commenced working on the road. Appellant
continued, under construction contracts, in possession and control of the road until February, 1886, a period of a little more

:26.1:

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Appellant.

than four years from the date of the agreement. During these
,years both brothers were giving up their time and labor to the
operation and extension of this railroad, appellant having 'the
principal charge, as superintendent or manager. The road
,was widened from a narrow to a standard gauge. Two cor-porations were organized, the one looking towards an exten6ion of the road eastward, and, the other toa like extension
westward; and in those extensions contracts were entered into
between the several companies and the appellan, and much
work was done thereunder. In the execution of those contracts the appellant associated with himself other parties, the
details of which contracts and arrangements with his associates are immaterial to the matter in controversy. Until about
the first of January, 1886, the brothers worked harmoniously
together in this enterprise, the appellee contending that all
this time their relations were substantially those of joint owners, their respective interests being in the proportion of twothirds to appellant and one-third to appellee. About the first
of January, 1886, differences arose between the brothers, in
consequence of which: the appellee was discharged from service on the road by the appellant, acting as general manager.
At the same time the appellant repudiated all interest of the
appellee in the enterprise. After this disagreement and discharge the appellee brought this suit to establish his rights as
the owner of substantially one-third of the property. The
case went to proofs and hearing, and the Circuit Court granted
a .decree in appellee's favor. From such decree appellant
appealed to this court.
2Xr. A. H. Garland, X21r. John X. Moore and Xr. H. J.
-WA
ay for appellant.
We submit that the memoranduip must be construed as
executory. It is true it recites th.t the stock is sold to
F?. F. Beardsley and belongs to him, but these words must be
construed in connection with the entire instrument. The true
construction is not to be found in any particular provisioni contained in the instrument, disconnected from all others; but in

BEARDSLEY v. BEAiRDSLEY.

265

Opinion of the Court.

the ruling intention of the parties gathered from all the
language they have used. It is the legal effect of the whole
which is to be sought for. The mere form of the instrument
is of little account. lleryford v. Davis, 102 U. S. 235.
The use of the word "sold" in the contract of sale does not
necessarily make the contract an executed one. That languag e
must be construed in connection with the rest of the instrument which must be taken as a whole. Anderson v. Read,
106 N. Y. 233.
The entire instrument must be examined to get at its substance and meaning. Canal Co. v. Hill, 15 Wall. 94. Mr.
Benjamin lays down the rule thus : Where the buyer is by
the contract bound to do anything as a consideration, either
precedent or concurrent, on which the passing of the property
depends, the property will not pass until the condition be fulfilled, even though the goods may have been actually delivered
into the possession of the buyer. This rule is cited with
approval in The Dgele Cotton Cases, 22 Wall. 180. See also
_Frenc v. Hay, 22 Wall. 231; Joyce v. Adams, 8 N. Y. (4
Selden) 291,; -Eelley v. Upton, 5 Duer, 336;. Lester v. 7ewett,
11 N. Y. (1 Kernan) 453; N7esbit v. Buar2y, 25 Penn. St. 208.
.Mr. Daniel W. Jones and
appellee.

r'. Thomas B. .Martin for

MR. JusTicE BREwnn, after stating the caseas above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The first and principal question in this case arises on the
contract of January 1, 1882. By the appellant it is claimed
that this is a mere executory contract, an agreement to sell;
by the appellee, that it is an executed contract, a sale with
reservation of security. The distinction is obvious, and the
significance important. If an agreement to sell, the moving
party must be the purchaser. If a sale, an executed contract
with reservation of security, the moving party is the vendor,
the one retaining security. If an agreement to sell, the moving party, the purchaser, must within a reasonable time tender
-performance or make excuse therefor. If an executed con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

tract, a completed sale, then the moving party is the vendor,
the security holder, and he assumes all the burdens and risks
of delay. What, therefore, is the significance and import of
this instrument ? This, as claimed by the appellant, is not to
be determined by any separate clause, but by the instrument
as a whole. Thd rule is well stated by Mr. Justice Strong,
delivering the opinion of this court in Heryford v. Davi8, 102
U. S. 235, 243, 244, where he says: "The answer to this
question is not to be found in any name which the parties
may have given to the instrument, and not alone in any particular provisions it contains, disconnected from all others, but
in the rulifig intention of the parties, gathered from all the
language they have used. It is the legal effect of the whole
which is to be sought for. The form of the instiument is of
little account."
It is not always easy to determine whether an instrument is
a contract of sale or one to sell; yet certain rules of interpretation have become established. These rules are noticed in
the opinion delivered in the _igee Cotton Cases, 22 Wall. 180,
188. Two of these rules have no application here, as they
refer to those steps necessary to put the prbperty into a
deliverable state, or the determination of the price by weighing, measuring and testing. The third only is significant,
which is there stated in these words: "Where the buyer is by
the contract bound to do anything as a consideration, either
precedent or concurrent, on which the passing of the property
depends, the property will not pass until the condition be fulfilled, even though the goods may have been actually delivered
into the possession of -the-buyer."
Tested by this rul6 this instrument must be adjudged not a
contract to sell, but a sale with reservation of security. Note
the language of the instrument: "which is sold." Again
"which, though standing in my name, belongs to him."
These words imply nothing executory, but something executed.
It is not that the vendor will sell, but has sold. Not that the
title remains in the vendor, yet to be transferred, but that it
already has been transferred. The ownership, equitable if not
legal, is in the vendee. It is not that the stock belongs to the

BEARDSLEY v. BEARDSLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

vendee, upon payment, as appeared in the case of Frenok v.
Hay, 22 Wall. 231, but that it is now his, subject to a lien.
Its meaning is, therefore, that of a sale, with retention of the
legal title as security for purchase money. It is an equitable
mortgage, and the rights created and assumed by it are like
those created and assumed when the owner of real estate conveys by deed to a purchaser, and takes back a mortgage as
security for the unpaid purchase money. Under those circumstances action is the duty of the vendor and mortgagee, and
delay imperils no right of the purchaser and mortgagor.
We have little doubt as to the significance of this contract,
and hold that its effect was to make the appellee one-third
owner with the appellant of the stook of the railroad company.
Such, obviously, is the import, and, therefore, such must be
adjudged the intention of the parties by this contract. With
this construction of the instrument, it is unnecessary to consider the various suggestions made by counsel for appellant
upon the theory that the contract was purely executory, a
mere contract to sell. Taking it as an executed contract, one
by which the ownership passed to the appellee, with a reservation of title simply as security for the purchase money -in
other words, an equitable mortgage -- we pass to the second
and most difficult matter in the case.
Appellant contends that it was a mere stock transaction,
while appellee contends that it is not bnly in harmony with,
but a part of, the full arrangement between the brothers, to
wit, a joint interest in the railroad enterprise, on the basis of
a two-thirds' share in the appellant and a one-third in the
appellee. The instrument, by itself considered, expresses a
stock transaction. If that was the extent of the arrangement
between the brothers, then the appellant might enter into
subsequent contracts with the railroad company, or any new
corporations organized by the parties interested in the old
company, without thereby interesting his brother in such contracts, or entitling him to a share in the proceeds thereof.
He, of course, could not deprive.him of any interest in the
corporation, or the corporate property, evidenced by his ownership of stock; but ownership of stock of a corporation does
-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

not of right give a proportional interest with every contracto!
in the contracts made by him with the corporation. Was this
instrument part and parcel of a general arrangement between
the brothers that they should be jointly interested in the railroad enterprise, looking at it as a whole, in proportions of
one-third and two-thirds ? Along this line of inquiry there is
a painful contradiction between the brothers, the two parties
who alone fully understood their relations, and who are necessarily the principal witnesses concerning them. In a general
way, it may be said that the testimony of appellee is, that the
understanding between the brothers was that they were to be
jointly interested in the whole enterprise in the proportion
stated; while, on the other hand, that of the appellant is, that
there was no talk or thought of partnership, or unity of ownership, and all that was thought of or agreed upon between
.them was expressed by the written contract -a mere contract
to sell stock. A great.deal of testimony was introduced as to
what was apparent to other parties employed on this railroad
as to the relations between th6 brothers, and as to what, they
knew and understood to be those relations. The significance
'of such testimony is limited. The brothers Were in fact engaged in the operation and extension of the road, each holding
a position in the corporate management. If there was a personal axrangement between them, it is not strange that the
terms and the extent of it were'not known by the employ~s,
or disclosed to or talked of with them. Obviously, during the.
years 1882 to 1886, the relations between the brothers were
harmonious, and neither thought of misunderstanding or differende. That they consulted together, often, about the enterprise, appearsfrm the testimony of the appellant as well as
that of the appellee, and, while the appellant limits the effect
of his testimony by the statement that he also consulted with
the other employ~s, the fact remains conceded by him, and
asserted by appellee, that during those years they consulted
alSout the operation, the management, and the extehsion of
th6 railroad enterprise. In the midst of this unpleasant contradiction we notice these significant facts: After the com-'
pletion of the ten miles 6f narrow-gauge road provided for by

BEARDSLEY v. BEARDSLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

the original organization, the enterprise grew larger in the
contemplation of its promoters and owners. A broadening of
the road from a narrow to a standard gauge, and an extension.
eastward and westward, became their scheme. For this, two
corporations were organized; one, as stated, looking to its
extension eastward, and the other to a like extension westward. In the organization of these corporations, four hundred shares were taken by the appellant and two hundred by
the appellee. This is upon the same basis of interest claimed
by appellee in the whole railroad enterprise. These two subscriptions covered practically the entire stock, so that the new
corporations were owned as the original. Interpreting these
transactions, it must be borne in mind that neither brother
was putting into this enterprise, to any extent, his individual
property. The thought was to make the enterprise pay for
itself, and out of it, and out of local aid, and out of their
effortsto promote it and secure outside assistance, the accom'plishment of the scheme, with its resultant benefits, was contemplated. So that, when into these new enterprises the
brothers passed, with the same proportional interests as in the
old, it is very significant, in the face of disputed testimony, as
to their unity of interest in the whole railroad enterprise.
Further than this, the letter of appellant to appellee, of
date February 7, 1886, and after differences had arisen between
the brothers, is worthy of note. In that letter, after referring
to the fact that Alderman and himself had undertaken to build
the road, that thereafter Alderman desired to sell, and that he
had 'urchased his interest, he says: "Some time after this Mr.
Alderman desired to sell me his interest in the road, but I
declined to.purchase it. In the course of the next six months
I declined it several times. Later, Colonel Paramore, of the
Texas and St. Louis Railway, wrote me that Mr. Alderman had
offered him his interest at $12,000, and that he was considering
the purchase. Finding this, if-.carried -out,,would involve us
in trouble with the Iron Mountain RaiWay, I wrote Mr. Alder-'
man, that day, saying I would take his interest at $12,000, and
by return mail he advised me thatheeconsidered it sold to me.
After I had purchased this interest you importuned me to let

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

you have it. This I declined to do, but I finally consented to
let you have two-thirds of the purchase, you to pay me $8000,
with interest from the time of my purchase, and at the same
rate I paid Mr. Alderman, stock to remain in my hands until
paid for. Previous to this time the road had been legally
valued at $100,000, and stock to that amount had been issued
or was ordered to be issued. At the time of your purchase
you represented, that you expected to get a considerable sum
of money from a mine in California, and you would pay this
on the purchase. So far, however, I believe you have not paid
anything. Some time afterwards, knowing that, as our understanding whs purely verbal, you would have no rights what.
ever in case of my death, I made a written memorandum
showing that you were entitled to one-third of the stock then
standing in my name, or $33,333, subject, however, to a payment of $8000, with interest as aforesaid. This memorandum
I gave you, and I presume you still have it. Here the business
part .of our transactions, so far .as interest in the property is
concerned, rests."
Now, the transactions between appellant and Alderman
were not mere stock transactions. They were jointly interested in-the construction contract, and by the completion thereof became practically joint owners of the road. That their
relations to the corporation were evidenced by'stock certificates,
does not preclude the fact that, as between themselves, they
were joint owners. So, when Alderman sold to him his onehalf interest, and he transferred to his brother the two-thirds
of that one-half interest, the significance of it, as expressed by
the appellant himself, was something more than a mere stock
transaction. As he says in his letter, after purchasing Alderman's interest he consented to let appellee have two-thirds of
such purchase. It is difficult to believe, that, by this transaction, nothing more was meant than a transfer of stock. Obviously, he understood that two-thirds of Alderman's interest
passed to appellee. Suppose Alderman had not sold, can it
be doubted that equity would regard them as jointly the
owners of this property, although their ownership was evidenced by separate shares of stock? Would equity tolerate

NORTH v. PETERS.
Syllabus.

any transaction by which appellant, securing the influence of
a few shares of stock held by the nominal directors, should
obtain bonds or contracts by which the value of the stock
would be substantially destroyed, and he become the real
owner? Bonds issued might be valid in law, and apparently
prior to the stock; contracts might give superior rights; yet,
is it not clear that equity would interfere if he, by collusion
with the resident directors, attempted to ignore Alderman
and create in himself a supremacy of ownership? That which
is true when there was equality of ownership between himself
and Alderman is also true when, by a subdivision of Alderman's interest, a like ownership as between himself and his
brother was established on a different basis.
We conclude, therefore, that the Circuit Court was right,
when, in view of this contract, and the other testimony, it
adjudged that the relationship between the brothers was not
that of mere stockholders in a corporation, but that of joint
owners in a common enterprise, the profits and losses of which
were to be shared between them in the proportion of their
respective interests. If that be, as we think, the true interpretation of the relations between-them, we do not understand
that the appellant presents any substantial objection to the
form and terms of the decree. It is, therefore,

Alfflrmed.
MR. JUsTioE BRoww did not sit in this case and took no part
in its decision.

NORTH v. PETERS.
APPEAL FROm THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF DAXOTA.
No. 148. Argued January 13,1891. -Decded

February 2,1891.

L., a merchant in Dakota, intending to defraud his creditors, sold his entire
stock of goods, much of which was of a perishable nature, together
with the good will of the business; to N., who was entirely ignorant of
his purpose, and who paid an. adequate consideration for them. - Sun-

