UNITED STATES v. GREEN.
Syllabus.

der or suspension of a power of government respecting any
matter of public concern must be shown by clear and unequivocal language; it cannot be inferred from any inhibitions upon
particular officers, or special tribunals, or from any doubtful
or uncertain expressions. As was said substantially in the
case of Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 420,
548, whenever it is alleged that a State has surrendered or
suspended its power of improvement and public accommodation on an important line of travel, along which a great number of persons must daily pass, the community has a right to
insist that its surrender or suspension shall not b6 admitted, in
a case in which the deliberate purpose of the State to make
such surrender or suspension does not appear; referring to several adjudications of this court in support of the doctrine.
And whatever of exclusiveness there was in the privilege extended by the act of 1840 within half a mile on each side of
an established ferry, was repealed in 1882. From that time
the defendant could claim no exclusive privilege to tiansport
passengers, animals and vehicles over the Ohio River within
the distance mentioned under the repealed statute, even .if it
could have done so before.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. GREEN.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
o. 1343. Submitted January 9,1891. -Decided February 2,1891.

The plaintiff was a-commander in the navy of the United States, with the
following record of entry and promotion: in the volunteer service, acting master's mate, May 7, 1861; acting ensign, November 27, 1862; acting master, August 11, 186:-in the regular service, master, March 12,
1868; lieutenant, December 18, 1868; lieutenant-commander, July 3, 1870;
commander, March 6, 1887. He had never received any benefit of Ionge/ity pay under that clause in the act of March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 473, C.
97, providing that "all officers of the navy shall be credited with the
actual time they may have served as officers or enlisted men in the regular or volunteer Army or Navy, or both, and shall receive all the benefits

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.
of such actual service in all respects in the same manner as if all said
service had been continuous and in the regular navy in the lowest grade
having graduated pay held by such officer sincelast entering the service.
Held, That, as he was a lieutenant during some days succeeding June 30,
1870, when the act of July 15 took effect, the lowest grade he held having
graduated pay was that of lieutenant.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
"Xr. Solicitor Generalfor appellants.
.3r.Jo/n Paul Jones and .".

Robert B.

in

for appellee.

MR. CHIEF JUSTCE FULLER delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an action to recover longevity pay under the
clause of the act of March 3, 1883, providing that "all officers of the Navy shall be credited with the actual time they
may have served as officers or enlisted men in the regular or
volunteer Army or Navy, or both, and shall receive all the
benefits of such actual service in all respects in the same manner as if all said service had been continuous and in the regular Navy in the lowest grade having graduated pay held by
such officer since last entering the service: Provided, That
nothing in this clause shall be so construed as to authorize any
change in the dates of commission or in the relative rank of
such officers: Provided, further, That nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to give any additional pay to
any such officer during the time of his service in the volunteer
Army or Navy." 22 Stat. 473, c. 97.
The plaintiff is a commander in the Navy of the United
States, with the following record of entry and promotion: In
the volunteer service, acting master's mate, May 7, 1861; acting ensign, November 27, 1862; acting master, August 11,
1864: In the regular service, master, March 12, 1868 ; lieutenant, December 18,.1868; lieutenant-commander, July 3, 1870;
commander, March 6, 1887. He has never received any benefit of longevity pay under the act of March 3, 1883. The
court below held that his prior service should be credited on

UNITED STATES v. GREEN.
Opinion of the Court.

his grade of lieutenant-commander, not on that of lieutenant,
and gave judgment in his favor for. $796.08. If such prior
service had been credited on his grade of lieutenant, the judgment would have been for only $4.17. 25 C. C1. 300.
By section 3 of the act of July 15, 1870, making appropriations " for the naval service for the year ending June thirtieth,
eighteen hundred and seventy-one, and for other purposes,"
16 Stat., c. 295, 321, 330, 332, it was provided "that from and
after the thirtieth day of June, eighteen hundrea and seventy,
the annual pay of the officers of the Navy on the active list
shall be as follows:
"Lieutenant-commanders, during the first four years after
date of commission, when at sea, -two thousand eight hundred
dollars; on shore duty, two thousand four hundred dollars; on
leave or waiting orders, two thousand dollars ; after four years
from such date, when at sea, three thousand dollars; on shore
duty, two thousand six hundred dollars; on leave or waiting
orders, two thousand two hundred dollars. Lieutenants, during
the first five years after date of commission, when at sea, two
thousand four hundred dollars; on shore duty, two thousand
dollars; on leave or waiting orders, one thousand six hundred
dollars; after five years from such date, when at sea, two
thousand six hundred dollars; on shore duty, two thousand
two hundred dollars; on leave or waiting orders, one thousand
eight hundred dollars." And section 4 provided : "That the
pay prescribed in the next preceding section shall be the full
and entire compensation of'the several officers therein named,
and no additional allowance shall be made in favor of any of
said officers on any account whatever, and all laws or parts
of laws authorizing any such allowance shall, on the first day
of July, eighteen hundred and seventy, be repealed. .
And from and after the thirtieth day of June, eighteen hundred and seventy, so much of the fourth section of the act
approved July fourteen, eighteen hundred and sixty-two,
'making appropriations for the naval service for the year
ending June thirty, eighteen hundred and sixty-three, and for
other purposes,' as allows to persons in the naval service five

OCTOBER TERtI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

,cents per day in lieu of the spirit -ration, is hereby repealed;
and from and after that day thirty cents shall in all cases be
deemed the commutation price of the navy pation."
By the same act, appropriations were made for the payment
of officers and seamen at the designated rates, and all acts or
parts of acts inconsistent with that act were thereby repealed.
Under the statute of July 16, 1862, (12 Stat. 583, 586,) in
force up to June 30, 1870, the pay of lieutenants was not
graduated, but by the act of July 15, 1870, theiD pay, and that
,of lieutenant-commanders and other officers therein mentioned,
was graduated from and after June 30, 1870. The lawful pay
of lieutenants ceased to be what it had been during the prior
fiscal year and years preceding, and became for the fiscal year
.commencing July 1, 1870, as prescribed by the act of July 15.
Claimant accordingly received pay for his services on July 1, 2
and 3, 1870, under the latter act, which furnished the measure
of his compensation. There was no other statute and no
other appropriation in accordance with which his pay was
regulated, disbursed and received. Nearly thirteen years after
this the act of 1883 was. passed, and the extent to which the
claimant could avail himself of it depends upon what was
the lowest grade having graduated pay held by him since last
entering the service; and, as he was a lieutenant during some
,days succeeding June 30, 1870, when the act of July 15 took
effect, we are constrained to hold that the lowest grade he
held having graduated pay was that of lieutenant. If the
act had been passed ten days before June 30, to take effect.
on that day, and claimant had become lieutenant-.commander
within the ten days, the lowest grade held by him having.
graduated pay attached would have been that of lieutenantcommander, notwithstanding when the act was passed he held
a lower grade. And though this act was passed after June
S0, yet as Congress directed that it should take effect as of
that date, the result must be the same.
In United States v. Rocewell, 120 U. S. 60, Rockwell reentered the service as master in March, 1868, and subsequently
during that year became lieutenant, and continued in such
position until 1878. The government contended that the

UNITED STATES v. GREEN.
Opinion of the Court.

lowest grade having graduated pay held by him was that of
master, masters being entitled to graduated pay under the act
of 1870, but it was held that this view was incorrect, and that
the act of 1883 referred to the lowest grade having graduated
pay held by the officer after the act providing for graduated
pay took effect. Rockwell had ceased to be a master for
nearly two years before the act in respect to graduated pay
was passed, and consequently that act became operative as to
him when he Was holding the rank-of lieutenant.
In this case, the only law under which claimant could receive
pay after June 30, 1870, was the act of July 15, 1870, and as
it took effect as of June 30, he was holding the grade of lieutenant at that time, and that fact disposes of this controversy.
It is suggested that the act of July 15, 1870, operated in
reduction of earned compensation for services rendered during
the fifteen days succeeding June 30, and to that extent was
invalid, upon the ground that while the pay of a lieutenant as
fixed by the act of 1862 was in terms increased by the act of
1870, yet part of his prior compensation given in lieu of allowances was cut off, and that his total compensation by reason
of the equivalent for allowances was larger during the fiscal
years prior to June 30, 1870, than that fixed by the act of
July 15. But the payments referred to were made in accordance with an order of the Secretary of the Navy of May 23,
1866, which established a fixed rate of compensation in lieu of
priot, extra allowances at a sum equal to thirty-three and onethird per cent of the pay, and the validity and force of the
order depended on the appropriation by Congress of moneys
for specified objects connected with the naval service, to the
distribution of which the order related. It was upon this.
view that the opinion of the court, delivered by :Mr. Justice
Harlan, proceeded in United States v. Pdlbrick,120 U. S. 52,
58, where "the power of the Secretary to establish rules and
regulations for the apportionment of the sums set apart by
Congress, in gross, for such objects as those involved in the
allowances here in dispute," was sustained. -The order was
not a contract with the naval officers by the Department, and
independent of Congressional action.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

The appropriation by Congress in this instance was by the
act of July 15,"1870, and that act in terms prohibited any
,extra allowances drom and after June 30, so that the act in-

creased the actual'pay and did not so disturb any vested rights
of the claimant as to give force to his position in this regard,
if it would in any aspect have affected the conclusion reached.
The judgment of the Court of 67aims isreversed and the
cause remandedwith directions to enterjudgmentfor $4.17
imfavor of claimant.

KANSAS CITY, FORT SCOTT AND MEMPHIS RAILROAD COMPANY v. DAUGHTRY.
:R=OR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
No. 1361. Submitted January 19, 1891. -Decided

STATE OF TENNESSEE.
February 2,1891.

When an issue of fact is raised upon a petition for the removal of a cause
from a state court to a Circuit Court of the United States, that issue
must be tried in the Circuit Court.
The statutes of the United States imperatively require that application to
remove a cause from a state court to a federal court should be made
before the plea is due under the laws and practice of the State; and
if the plaintiff does not take advantage of his right to take judgment by
default for want of such plea, he does not thereby extend the time for
application for removal.
The statutes of Tennessee require ihe plaintiff to file his declaration within
the- first three days of the term to which the writ is returnable and the
defendant to appear and demur or plead within the first two days after
the time allotted for filing the declaration. After due service of the
writ, the plaintiff's declaration was filed within the prescribed time. The
defendant three days later pleaded the general issue, and, after the lapse
of four terms, filed a petition in the state court for removal on* the
ground of diverse citizenship. This was denied, and exceptions taken.
The Supreme Court of the State upheld the refusal, passing upon the
,question of citizenship as an issue of fact. Held,
7(1) That that court had no jurisdiction over that issue of fact;
(2) But that, as the application for removal was made too late, its denial
.was right as matter of law, .and the judgment of that court
should be affirmed.

