OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

BUTLER v. GAGE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.
Io. 1342. Submitted January 5, 1891.-Decided January 19, 1891.

It Is to be presumed that when a writ of error is filed here from Colorado,
signed (the Chief Justice being absent) by a judge -who styles himself
"Presiding judge of the Supreme Court" of that State, that he acts in
that capacity in the'absence of the Chief Justice, and in accordance with
the provisions of the Constitution of the State, and that the writ was
properly allowed.
The petition for a writ of error is not part of the record on which this
court acts.
When a case is presented for the determination of th6 highest court of a
State without a suggestion that a Federal question is involved, and after
decision a petition for a rehearing, containing no such suggestion, is
presented and denied, a denial of a motion for further oral argument in
which such a claim is for the first time set up does not necessarily
involve the decision of a Federal question.

THis was an action brought in the name of William P. Linn
and Lewis C. Rockwell against Hugh Butler and Charles W.
Wright, in the District Court iaI and for the county of Lake
and State of Colorado, upon a contract between Linn and
Butler and Wright, subsequently assigned by Linn to Burrell,
and by Burrell to Rockwell, as collateral security for money
loaned by him to Linn. Linn subsequently died and his executors were substituted.
The defences raised no Federal question. Upon trial had, a
verdict was rendered in favor of the plaintiffs and their damages were assessed at the sum of $9008.33, and a motion for
new trial having been overruled, judgment was rendered
thereon January 17, 1888, whereupon the case was taken by
appeal to the Supreme Court of the State of Colorado. Appellants assigned forty-three errors, but these involved no
Federal question. September 13, 1889, the Supreme Court
entered an order reciting that "it appearing that this cause
comes within the provisiqns of Rule 51 of this court, it is
ordered by the Court that this cause be, and is hereby, advanced for hearing, and that the same is hereby assigned to
the Supreme Court Commission foi consideration and report
and for oril argument at such time as said commission shall

BUTLER v. GAGE.
Statement of the Case.

order." September 27, 1889, it was stipulated and agreed. by
and between the parties that the cause might be set down for
oral argument on Wednesday, the 16th day of October, 1889.
The cause was accordingly heard by the Supreme Court Coinmission, which arrived at a decision and opinion and reported
the same to the Supreme Court. On the 24th of December,
1889, the Supreme Court entered the following order:
"At this day this cause coming on to be heard, as well upon
the transcript of proceedings and judgment had in said District
Court in and for the county of Lake as also upon the matters
assigned for error herein, and the same having been heretofore
argued by counsel and submitted to the consideration and
judgment of the court, and it appearing to the court that there
is no error in the proceedings and judgment aforesaid of said
District Court, it is therefore considered and adjudged by the
court that the judgment aforesaid of said'District Court be,
and the same is hereby affirmed and stand in full force and
effect, and that this cause be remanded to said District Court.
for such other and further proceedings, according to law,'as
shall be necessary to the final execution of the judgment of said
District Court in the cause, notwithstanding the said appeal.
"It is further considered and adjudged by the court that
said appellees do have and recover of and from said appellants their costs in this behalf expended, to be taxed, and that
they have execution therefor. And let the opinion of the
court filed herein be recorded."
And the opinion of the commission was then given upon
the record, with these words attached: "Per curiam: For
the reasons stated in the foregoing opinion the judgment is
affirmed."
On the 7th of January, 1890, appellants filed their petition
for a rehearing in the cause, assigning various reasons, but
suggesting no Federal question, and taking no exception, so
far as appears, to the fact that the case had been heard l y
the commission, which on the 28th of March, the Supreme.
Court, upon consideration thereof, denied.
May 16, appellants filed their motion in words and figures
as follows: "And now come the said appellants and move the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

court to grant an oral argument on the merits of this cause
and appeal in and before this court, and that in the meantime
no mandate, remittitur or process issue herein to affirm or
enforce in any way the judgment of the said District Court of
Lake County complained of and appealed from," which motion
was overruled May 23d. Thereupon appellants presented
their petition for a writ of error from this court, addressed to
"Hon. J. C. Helm, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the
State of Colorado." In this paper it was claimed, after a
recital of various steps taken in the case, that the motion and
request of appellants that the Supreme Court should grant an
oral argument on the merits of the appeal and of the cause,
and the refusal of the court to grant the same and to hear an
oral argument, "drew in question the constitutionality of the
statutes of the State of Colorado, entitled 'An act to regulate
the practice in the Supreme Court; appointing commissioners
therefor, fixing their salary, and defining their duties,' approved
March 7, 1887; and a certain other act entitled 'An act proViding for a Supreme Court Commission,' approved April 1,
1889; in that by the said statutes and the construction placed
thereon and the practice adopted thereunder by said Supreme
Court, litigants and suitors in said Supreme Court were deprived of their right to have their appeals and writs of error
and other judiciaJcontroversies to be tried before, heard and
decided by said Supreme Court, and because the same are
repugnant to and inconsistent with and forbidden by the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States, which provides that 'no State shall make or enforce
'any, law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of
citizens of the United States; nor shall any State deprive any
person of life, liberty or property without due process of law;
nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws;' and that said decision in this cause in
effect sustains the validity of said statutes so drawn in question."
The writ of error was allowed as follows:
"State of Colorado:
"Desiring to give petitioners an opportunity to test in the

BUTLER v. GAGE.
Opinion of the Court.

Supreme Court of the United States the question presented in
the foregoing petition, it is ordered that a writ of error be
allowed to said court, and that the same be made a supersedeas, the bond, in the penal sum of sixteen thousand dollars,
herewith presented, being approved.
"In testimony whereof witness my hand this 27th day of
May, A.D. 1890, the chief justice being absent.
"CiAs. D. HAiv,
"Presiding Judge of the Supreme Court
of the State of Colorado."
The writ of error having issued and citatioii having been
duly served, signed by and attested in the name of Judge
iHayt, and the transcript having been fied in this court, the
defendants in error moved to dismiss or affirm.
.r.

1. C. Rockwell for the motion,

.r.

ilugh Butler opposing.

M . CHIEF JusTIcE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

The motion to dismiss is predicated upon two grounds:
First. Because the writ of error was not allowed, nor the
citation signed, by the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of
the State of Colorado. Second. Because no Federal question
was involved in the case, or appeared or was raised upon the
record.
It is essential to the exercise by this court of revisory jurisdiction over the final judgments or decrees of the courts of
the States that the writ of error should be allowed either by
a justice of this court, or b the proper judge of the State
court, after ascertaining by an examination of the record that
a question cognizable here was made and decided in the State
court, and that such allowance was justified.
Gleason v.
Florida, 9 Wall. 779. Section 969 of the Revised Statutes
provides that the citation shall be signed by the chief justice,
judge or chancellor of the court rendering the judgment or

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

passing the decree complained of, or by a justice of this court;
and it was held ii Bartemeyer v. Iowa, 14 Wall. 26, that when
the Supreme Court of a State is composed of a chief justice and
several associates, and the judgment complained of was rendered by such court, the writ could only be allowed by the
chief justice of that court or by a justice of this court.
Section 5 of article VI of the constitution of the State of
Colorado is as follows: "The Supreme Court shall consist of
three judges, a majority of whom shall be necessary to form
a quorum or pronounce a decision." And by section 8 of that
article it is provided that: "The judge having the shortest
term to serve, not holding his office by appointment or election to fill a vacancy, shall be the chief justice, and shall preside at all terms of the Supreme Court, and, in case of his
absence, the judge having in like manner the next shortest
term to serve shall preside in his stead." (Gen. Stats. Colorado, 1883, p. 49.)
It appears from the record that the chief justice was absent
when this writ was allowed, and it is stated by counsel that
Judge Hayt, who allowed it, had the next shortest term to
serve, as the other associate justice was elected to fill a vacancy.
It is certainly to be presumed that Judge Hayt was, as he
asserted himself to be, the presiding judge of the court in the
absence of the chief justice. The first ground urged for the
dismissal of the writ of error is therefore untenable.
This brings us to consider whether the record before us so
presents a Federal question as to justify the maintenance of
the writ. And it may be remarked in the outset, that the
petition for a writ of error forms no part of the record upon
which action:here is taken. .Manning v. French, 133 U. S.
186; Clark'v. Pennsylvania,128 U. S. 395; TIarfied v. Oafe,
91. U. S. 690.
Sections I and 2 of article VI of the constitution of the
State of Colorado read thus:
" SEOTION 1. The judicial power of the State as to matters
of law and equity, except as in the constitution otherwise
provided, shall be vested in a Supreme Court, District Courts,
County Courts, justices of the peace, and such other courts as
may be provided by law.

BUTLER v. GAGE.
Opinion of the Court.

"SEC. 2. The Supreme Court, except as otherwise provided
in this constitution, shall have appellate jurisdiction only,
which shall be co-extensive with the State, and shall' have a
general superintending control over all inferior courts, under
such regulations and limitations as may be prescribed by law."
(Gen. Stats. Colorado, 1883, p. 48; Sess. Laws Colorado, 1887,

p. 483.)
In 1887 the legislature of the State of Colorado passed a
statute authorizing the appointment of three Supreme Court
Commissioners for the period of two years, unless sooner
relieved or discharged, and upon April 1, 1889, enacted a
similar statute authorizing the appointment of like commissioners for the period of four years. Sections 2 and 3 of the
latter act are as follows:
"SEc. 2. Said commissioners shall be subject to such rules
and orders as the Supreme Court shall from time to time
adopt for their government, and for procedure before them;
they shall examine and consider together and report upon such
cases as shall be referred to them by the court for that purpose, and perform such other services as the court shall require.
Their reports shall be in writing and signed by one of their
number, and shali-show which concur therein and which, if
any, dissent; and a dissenting commissioner may likewise
make a report. Every report shall contain a concise but comprehensive statement of the facts in the case, the opinion of
the commissioner or commissioners submitting the report, and
a citation of the authorities relied on in support of the opinion.
The court may provide, by rule for a hearing of an oral argument by counsel before said commission - Provided,That no
cause shall be referred to said commissioners in which theyj
or any of them, are or have been interested as counsel or'
otherwise.
"SEc. 3. Every opinion shall be promptly delivered to the
chief justice, who shall lay the same before the court. The
court may approve, or modify or reject any such opinion.
Whenever it shall approve and adopt an opinion as submitted,
or as modified, the same as approved and adopted shall be
promulgated as the opinion of the court, and shall be filed and

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

reported, and judgment shall be rendered in the same manner
and with the same effect and subject to the same orders,
motions and petitions for rehearing as in the case of other
opinions and judgments of thecourt; and every such opinion
shall show which commissioner prepared the opinion and
which concurred, and the approval and adoption, and by the
concurrence of which judges; and whenever the court shall
reject the opinion of the commissioners in any cause, the opinion of the court shall be prepared and a like proceeding had in
all respects as in other causes submitted to the court." Sess.
Laws Colorado, 1889, 444, 445.
Three commissioners were appointed under this act and are
now acting as such commissioners, and it was to them that the
consideration of this case on appeal was assigned by the State
Supreme Court. In the argument for plaintiffs in error it is
asserted that the record involves the inquiry: "Did the
Supreme Court of the State of Colorado in this instance, by
reason of the State statute of 1889, deny to the plaintiffs in
error any right or privilege secured and protected by the Fourteenth Amendment?" and that "the right denied in this case
was a review by a court, created and existing under the law of
the land, and created for the purpose of determining such controversies." And it is contended that, considering the. nature
of the right, the statute and the course pursued under it deprived plaintiffs in error of due process of law and the equal
protection of the laws.
The record discloses that after the cause was assigned to the
commission "for consideration and report and for oral argument at such time as said commission shall order," it was stipulated and agreed by the parties that the cause should be set
down for oral argument on a certain day. And it is nowhere
shown that any objection was made by plaintiffs in error to
the c6mnissioners' acting, but the cause proceeded to argument,
report, and judgment, without question as to the jurisdiction.
An application was then made to the Supreme Court for a
rehearing, and a brief filed in support thereof, and the authority of the commission, or of the Supreme Court in its action
upon the commission's report, was not even then impugned.

BUTLER v. GAGE.
Opinion of the Court.

Counsel frankly admits that "up to this time, no attack had
been made against the authority of the commission or against
the right of the court to accept and adopt the work of the
commission;" but, he continues, that after the petition for
reheiring in this case was denied, the objection was made in
another case that the commission "had no right or power to
decide judicial controversies, and that the Supreme Court had
no right or power to base its final judgment on the report or
recommendation of the commission." This other case was
entitled Bullock v. McGerr, and will be found reported in 23.
Pacific Reporter, 980. The question came up on a petition for
a rehearing, which among other grounds contained the following: "The counsel for appellants desire to argue the validity
of an opinion of the Supreme Court in the form of an indorsement or ratification of the commission based on an oral argument heard before the commission." The rulings are embodied
in the syllabus prepared by the court, as follows:
"1. The constitutionality of the legislative act providing
for a Supreme Court Commission is not, necessarily involved
upon the petition for a rehearing of a cause which had been
referred to the commission in pursuance of said act.
"2. Courts ordinarily decline to determine the constitutionality of legislative enactments in a case where the record presents some other and clear ground' upon which the judgment
may -rest.
"3. The Supreme Court alone can promulgate opinions and
render judgments, and its duty is not discharged by the adoption _roforma of the conclusions of the Supreme Court Commission.
"4. The privilege of being heard orally before the Supreme
Court prior to final judgment is a right which, though subject to reasonable regulation, cannot, under our practice, be
denied to any party litigant making seasonable application
therefor."
Each of the three judges of the court delivered an opinion
and the general subjectwas largely discussed, and reference
made to Dke State ex rel. Hovey v. Noble et al., 118 Indiana, 350,
where, upon an application for a writ of prohibition, the act of

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the legislature of Indiana creating such a commission was held
unconstitutional; and to People ex ret. Morgan v. ilayne
et at., 83 California, 111, where, upon quo warranto,the Supreme Court of California sustained the validity of the commission; and, in addition to these cases of a direct proceeding
against the commissioners as respondents, to Chicago Railroad
Co. v. Abiline, 21 Pacific Reporter, 1112, in which the Supreme
Court of Kansas, upon a petition for rehearing, refused to
consider the question of the constitutionality of a similar act
and denied the rehearing upon the merits. The opinions in
Bullock v. EcGerr appear to have been announced May 16,
1890, and on the same day appellants made their motion that
the Supreme Court grant an oral argument on the merits of
the cause and that the remittitur be stayed in the meantime,
which motion was denied.
We are not informed of the ground upon which this denial
was based, but we presume, in the light of Bullock v. XcGerr,
that the Supreme Court considered the application to be heard
orally as coming too late; and it is quite clear that the constitutionality of the act providing for the Supreme Court Commission was not considered to be necessarily involved and was not
passed upon. Yet we are asked to retain this cause for the
purpose of deciding that question, notwithstanding plaintiffs
in error acquiesced in the hearing of the case by the commission, and stipulated as to the time when the argument should
take place before that body; participated in that argument;
petitioned the Supreme Court for a rehearing; and did not
moot the point now raised until after the final judgment of
the Supreme Court had been pronounced and the petition for
rehearing had been overruled. The validity of a statute of,
or an authority exercised under, the State of Colorado, on the
ground 'of such statute or authority being repugnant to the
Constitution, treaties or laws of the United States, was not
drawn in question in the Supreme Court of Colorado, and that
court did not decide in favor of its validity. No title, right,
privilege or immunity under the Constitution, or any treaty or
statute of, or commission held or authority exercised under,
the United States, was specially set up or blaimed under such

UNITED STATES v. CONNOR.
Statement -of the Case.

Constitution, treaty, statute, commission or authority, and no
decision was rendered against such title, right, privilege or
immunity. The Supreme Court of the State confessedly went
to judgment without any suggestion that a Federal question
was presented for its determination, and not even in the petition for rehearing was any such question brought to the attention of the court. And the disposition of the motion that oral
argument be permitted after the petition for rehearing was
denied, did not, in itself, necessarily involve the decision of a
Federal question.
We cannot, under such circumstances, reexamine the judgment and orders of that court, and the writ of error must be
-Dismissed.

UNITED STATES v. CONNOR.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 113. Argued January9, 1891.-Decided January 19, 1891.
Any right which an informer might have had to a share in a fine, penalty,

or forfeiture under the provisions of the act of July 13, 1866, 14 Stat.
145, was taken away by the act of June 6, 1872, 17 Stat. 256, c. 315, ยง 9,
unless the amount of the fine, penalty or forfeiture was fixed and settled
by judgment or compromise, and by payment, before the passage of the
latter act.
Without resting this case on the point, the court is of opinion that the
claimant's claim was presented to the Secretary of the Treasury, and was
finally passed upon and adjudicated by him twelve years before the commencement of this action, and that consequently it is barred by the statute of limitations. Rev. Stat. ยง 1069.

THis case being reached in its order on the docket on the
17th of December, 1890, argument was begun. The court,
however, ordered the case to be passed, to be heard before a
full bench. On the 9th of January, 1891, it was again called,
and was argued. The case, as stated by the court, was as
follows:
In December, 1871, the appellee gave the first information,

