OCTOBER TERMf, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

intent, or pf deception practiced on the plaintiff or on the
public.
The decree 18, therefore, affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD did not sit in this case or take any
part in its decision; nor did MR. JUSTICE BROWN¢, who was not

a member of the court when the case was argued.

LAWRENCE MANUFACTURING COMPANY v.
JANESVILLE COTTON MILLS.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 102. Argued December 2, 3, 1890. -Decided

March 2, 1891.

When a party returns to a court of chancery to obtain its aid in executing
a former decree of that court, the court is at liberty to inquire whether
the decree was or was not erroneous, and if it be of opinion that it was
erroneousi it may refuse to execute it.
When a decree in chancery is the result of the consent of the parties, and
not of the judgment of the court, the court may, if its aid in enforcing
it is asked by a subsequent bill, refuse to be constrained by the consent
decree to decree contrary to what it finds to be the right of the cause.

THE Lawrence Manufacturing Company fied its bill against
the Janesville Cotton Mills on the first day of June, 1886, in
the United States Circuit Court for the Western District of
Wisconsin, claiming that the letters "LL" upon sheetings of the
third-class, running four yards to the pound, belonged to it as
a trademark, and averring that defendant had been recently
organized, and was in law and in fact the successor of the
Janesville Cotton Manufacturing Company, having succeeded
to and having acquired all the assets 6nd property and good
will of the latter; and that the defendant was owned and officered (with one exception) by the same persons as the Cotton
Manufacturing Conipany, and that the defendant had advertised itself to the public as the successor in all respects of the

LAWRENCE M'F'G CO. v. JANESVILLE MILLS.

553

Statement of the Case.

Cotton Manufacturing Company. That early in 1886, appellant exhibited in the same court a bill of complaint containing
the allegations set forth in this bill in respect to the use of
the letters "LL," against the Cotton Manufacturing Company,
and that thereafterwards the appellant and the Cotton Manufacturing Company entered into a stipulation in the case,
bearing date March 30, 1886: "That the said Lawrence Man,,
ufacturing Company hereby consents that the suit commenced
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western
District of Wisconsin against said Janesville Cotton Manufacturing Company be dismissed without costs to said Janesville Cotton Manufacturing Company, and also hereby waives
all claims to damages against the said Janesville Cotton Mlanufacturing Company; and the said Janesville Cotton Manufacturing Company hereby agrees not to use the label or
trademark 'LL' on any goods of its manufacture after the first
day of July, A.D. 1886; and it is further stipulated that a
consent decree discontinuing said suit without the right of
appeal shall be entered in accordance with the terms thereof."
The bill further alleged that with the stipulation there was
submitted to the Cotton Manufacturing Company a release
proposed to be executed- by appellant to said Company, and
also an agreement proposed to be executed and delivered by
the company to appellant, which agreement bound the Cotton
Manufacturing Company and its successors in said corporation and in said business and its assigns, not to use the label
or trademark "LL" on any goods of its manufacture after
the first day of July, 1886; and that the stipulation, release,
and agreement were adopted by the board of directors of the
Cotton Manufacturing Company on the third of April, 1886,
and appellant was so notified by defendant, and, pursuant to
the action of the board of directors and the agreement, stipulation and contract, a consent decree -was entered in that
cause in the words and figures following, to wit:
"This cause coming on io be heard, Messrs. Raymond, &
Rainey appearing for the complainant, and Mr. George G.
Sutherland appearing for the defendant, and confessing the
said bill of-complaint and cQnsenting to this final finding and

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

decree, the court doth order, adjudge and decree as follows,
the same bein- in accordance with the stipulation ef the
parties heretofore herein filed, to wit:
"First. That the total cost heretofore and now incurred
herein shall be paid by the complainant.
"Second. That a perpetual injanction issuing out of and
under the seal of this court against the said defendant, the
Janesville Cotton Manufacturing Company, commanding it
and each and every of its officers, agents, servants and
employ~s that from and after the first day of July, A.D.
1886, they.and each of them shall desist and refrain from,
directly or indirectly, using said letters 'LL' upon any sheetings of their manufacture, as in'said bill of complaint is mentioned."
To which was attached the following signed by counsel for
the respective parties:
"We hereby assent to the foregoing form of decree, the
same being in accordance with the terms of a stipulation of
the par6ties thereto, heretofore filed herein."
That, notwithstanding the premises, the defendant being
the successor in law and in business of the Cotton Manufacturing Company, issued the circular letter attached, a part of
which, under the heading of "Dissolution and Reorganization"
is as follows:
"The corporation known as the Janesville Cotton Manufacturing Company has been dissolved by mutual consent of
the stockholders, and all of its property, consisting of two
-thoroughly equipped cotton mills, together with its franchises
and good will, has been sold and transferred to the Janesville
Cotton Mills, a-new corporatioh organized for the purpose of
continning the imanufacture and sale of the justly celebrated'
'Badger State sheetings.'
"The new corporation purpose to make the three grades of
sheeting known to the trade as Badger State, R, R R, and
L L, under a distinct trademark and stamp of their own, conc
sisting of a diagonal bar across the letters R & L, with or without the word 'double,' to wit: Badger State, R, Dou R ble,
Don L ble."

LAWRENCE M'F'G CO.-v. JANESVILLE MILLS.

555

Statement of the Case.

That appellant demanded at once that defendant should
withdraw the circular letter and cease preparations to use the
capital letter" L" with the word doubie written across it, and
should not use the same; but defendant declined to comply
with the demand, and threatened and prQposed to use the
capital letter "L" with the word dodble written across it as
its stamp upon sheetings of the third general class, on and
after July 1, 1886. Plaintiff averred that such a use would
be a fraud upon the public and a fraud upon itself, and a violation of the stipulation of the contract and of the consent
decree, and of the injunction ordered in the prior suit, and
would cause irreparable injury. Plaintiff therefore prayed
for answer, for a temporary injunction, and for general relief.
Affidavits were filed with the bill and a restraining order
entered, and a day assigned for a hearing of the motion for a
preliminary injunction.
The defendant answered, denying that plaintiff had the
exclusive right to use the letters "LL," and admitting that it
was organized in April, 1886, but denying that it was-the successor of the Cotton Manufacturing Company in any other
sense than that it purchased the property of that company,
and some of its stockholders and officers were the same as
those of the Cotton Manufacturing Company. The answer
admitted that in the month of February, 1886, the plaintiff
exhibited the bill of complaint se.t forth in the bill in this case,
and that the Cotton Manufacturing, Company did not defend
against that bill, but entered into the "stipulation set forth in
this bill, and that the decree thereil set forth was entered;
but defendant averred that that decree-was not in accordance
with the stipulation, which provided that the suit should be
discontinued without the right of appeal; and defendant
denied, upon information and belief, that the Cotton Manafacturing Company executed or agreed to execute the agreement mentioned and referred to in the bill of complaint. - The
answer further alleged that the Cotton Manufacturing Company at the time of the stipulation and agreement was about
to go into liquidaion and wind up its %ffairs, and wbuld have
no further occasion to use-the letters "-LL" after July 1,1886;

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

that it had sincedisposed of all its property rights, and privileges to defendant, and abandoned the business of manufacturing cotton sheetings; had wound up its affairs and been dissolved; and that defendant was a wholly distinct and separate corporation from the Cotton Manufacturing Company;
was not a party to the prior suit, and was not bound by the
stipulation or decree, or by any other stipulation, agreement
or obligation entered into or assumed by the Cotton Manufacturing Company. Upon hearing upon the pleadings and
proofs, a decree was entered dismissing plaintiff's bill of complaint with costs, and thereupon the cause was brought to this
court by alpeal.
The evidence established that on the 30th of March, 1886,
the stipulation above given was made out and signed by
the Lawrence Manufacturing Company, and, with duplicates,
handed to the-attorney for the Cotton Manufacturing Company, together with copies of an agreement to be executed
under the authority of the board of directors of the Cotton
Manufacturing Company by the president and secretary, and
under the seal of the company, and a letter of plaintiff's
solicitor reciting these facts, and stating that he had no doubt
that the Lawrence Company would authorize the settlement,
and if so, would be glad.to have the agreement duly executed
and -returned, and that if the Cotton Manufacturing Company
desired it, a formal release from the Lawrence Company, duly
executed, of all claims for damages, etc., would be obtained,
although "the agreement of the Janesville Company made in
consideration of that release, and the whole matter being of
record in court, would not necessitate such a formal release
from the Lawrence Company." The agreement to be executed
by 4he Cotton Manufacturing Company was as follows:
. F"I and in consideration of the discontinuance by the
Lawrence Manufacturing Company, of Lowell, Massachusetts,
of a suit now pending in the United States Circuit Court for
the Western District of Wisbonsin against the Janesville Cotton Manufacturing Co.mpany, and in consideration of a release
of al claims for damages for. the .infringement of "the trademark of said Lawrence Manufacturing Company. for brown

LAWRENCE M'F'G CO. v. JANESVILLE MILLS.

557

Statement of the Case.

sheetings by the use of the letters ILL,' all in accordance with
the stipulation in the case now made and executed, the said
Janesville Cotton Manufaeturing Company does hereby, for
itself, its successors, both in said corporation and in said business, and for its assigns, covenant and agree to and with the
said Lawrence Manufacturing Company, its successors and
assigns as aforesaid, not to use the label or trademark ILL'
on any goods of its manufacture after the first day of July,
A.D. 1886."
On the third of April, 1886, the following proceedings were
had by the Cotton Manufacturing Company, as shown by its
records:
"Matters pertaining to the suit brought against our company by the Lawrence Manufacturing Company for infringement of their right in the use of the stamp LL on our sheetings
were explained by Mr. Sutherland, and, on motion of Mr.
Eldred, Mr. Sutherland was authorized and instructed, as our
attorney, to sign the stipulations agreed upon by the attorneys
of the Lawrence Manufacturing Company and Mr. Sutherland
in behalf of the Janesville Cotton Manufacturing Company.
"On motion, Mr. Sutherland was instructed to notify the
attorneys of the Lawrence Manufacturing Company that the
president and secretary of the Janesville Cotton Manufacturing
Company will execute, under the authority of its board of
directors, the agreement to discontinue the use of said LL
stamp whenever the Lawrence Manufacturing Company shall
sign a formal release, duly executed, of all claims for damages,
etc., against the Janesville Cotton Manufacturing Company
for the use of said LL stamp."
Whereupon and on the same date the attorney of the Cotton
Manufacturing Company wrote from Janesville to plaintiff's
solicitor at Chicago, as follows:
"I was unable to get a meeting of the directors of the Janesville Cotton M'f'g Co.- until this afternoon.
"They have just authorized me to sign the stipulations as
drawn, and they further authorized the president and secretary
to sign the agreement drawn by you, on receiving the release
mentioned in your letter from the Lawrence M'f'g Co.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

"I have sent the original stipulation to the clerk of the
court at Madison, and inclose you a duplicate."
The release by plaintiff was executed, delivered to and
accepted by the Cotton Manufacturing Company, and the
consent decree was entered May 11, 1886.
It also appeared that the Cotton Manufacturing Company
was at the time of the suit against it in embarrassed circumstances, and on the 10th of March, 1886, a resolution to dissolve the corporation, sell its property and wind up its affairs
was adopted by the board of directors, which recited that it
was contemplated by the stockholders of the company that
some of them should immediately proceed to organize another
-corporation for the same purposes of manufacturing and selling cotton cloth, with a capital stock of $150,000, to be paid
in cash or indebtedness of the company by the*subscribers,
and that each of the presen stockholders of the Cotton Manufacturing Company should have the privilege of subscribing
for the capital stock of the new company _p2ro ,rata,share and
share alike, in proportion to the amount of the stock of the
Cotton Manufacturing Company owned by them, respectively,
and upon the 11th of March this resolution was ratified at a
meeting of the stockholders, and an agreement was made as
to subscribing for shares in the new company,, provided the
project should be carried out by the sale of the property qf
the Cotton Manufacturing Company and the conveyance of
the same to the new corporation.
On the 21st of April, 1886, the defendant, the.Janesville
Cotton Mills, was organized under the laws of Wisconsin by
articles of association filed with the Secretary of State, fand to
it the Cotton Manufacturing Company conveyed its property
in consideration of one dollar, "and for the further consideration that the said party of the second part assumes and agrees
to pay all the indebtedness of said party of-the first part due
or to become due upon its promissory notes or other written
contracts, which are not secured by a. lien upon its property."
The articles of association of the new company were signed
'by officers and stockholders. of -the old one, and were dated
March 12, 1886, and provided that the new company was,

LAWRENCE M'F'G CO. v. JANESVILLE MILLS.

559

Opinion. of the Court.

upon acquiring title to the property of the Cotton Manufacturing Company, "to assume and pay all indebtedness of said
Janesville Cotton Manufacturing Company due or to become
due upon its promissory notes or other written contracts which
are not secured by lien upon its property, but is not to assume
any indebtedness or liability secured by lien upon such property or evidenced otherwise than as above stated." The officers and stockholders of the old company were in the main
the officers and stockholders of the new one.
The new company went on with the same business, and
continued to use the books df the old company and substantially the same brands, except that "LL" was changed to "L,"
with the word double across it. There was no evidence that
the agreement not to use the "LL" mark on sheetings was
ever signed by the president and secretary, and the seal affixed,
of the Cotton Manufacturing Company, although they were
authorized to execute it as soon as the formal release should
be signed, which was done. The failure to obtain the formally
executed agreement was explained by one of the plaintiff's
attorneys, who testified that as the stipulation was filed and
decree entered and he believed the matter fully settled in
good faith and the parties sufficiently and fully protected, he
neglected to ask for the formal evidence of the agreement
executed under the seal of the Cotton Manufacturing Company,
until he was informed of the dissoluti6n thereof by the circular letter of the defendant.
Upon the question of trademark, evidence from other cases
seems to have been stipulated into this, and it was agreed by
counsel that the printed record in the case mentioned below
might be used if the court would permit.
.- '.. H..Raymond and AX. W. B..Hornblowerfor appellant.
.Mr.I

C. Sloan and.r. J. C. Sloan for appellee.

MR. CHIrEF JvsWcE, FuLLER, after.stating the case, delivered
the opiftion of the coart.
We have already held in Lawrence A2anulfacturing Comyany v. Tennessee .3fanufacturing. Cozapany, ante, 537, that

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff is not entitled to the exclusive right to use the letters
I'LL" as a trademark on sheetings running four yards to the
pound, and that no case was made there for relief on the
ground of actual fraud; and that decision is controlling here
so far as those questions can be considered as involved. , But
it is insisted that the appellee, by virtue of a contract with
and decree against the Janesville Cotton Manufacturing Company, is estopped from the use of the letters "LL," or any
imitation thereof, and that a decree accordingly should go
against it. The bill is not framed upon the theory, nor do
we understand. counsel so to contend, that plaintiff is entitled
to relief upon the agreement alone, but that it is to be taken
with the decree which was entered perpetually enjoining the
Cotton Manufacturing Company from the use of the letters
"LL" after July 1, 1886. Defendant denied, and it was not
shown that the written agreement was ever executed by the
president and secretary of the Cotton Manufacturing Company, although this was authorized to be done as soon as the
release from damages was furnished, as it afterwards was, but
only as part of a settlement of the pending suit, under whichthat suit was to be dismissed without costs to the company.
This proposed agreement provided that in consideration of
the discontinuance of the plaintiff's suit, then pending, and of
a release of all claims for damages, in accordance with the
stipulation in the cause then made, the Cotton Manufacturing
Company covenanted and agreed "for itself, its successors,
both in said corporation and in said business, and for its
assigns," "not to use the label or trademark 'ILL' on any
goods of its manufacture after the first day of July, A.D.
1886." By the consent decree subsequently entered, the case
was not discontinued, but, on the contrary, a perpetual injunction was decreed against the Cotton Manufacturing Company,
its officers, agents, s'rvants and employ~s, restraining them
and each of them, after July 1, 1886, from, directly or .indirectly, using the letters "LL" upon any sheetings of their
manufacture as mentioned in the bill. of complaint. It. was,
however, provided that the total. costs of the suit should be
paid by the plaintiff; and no damages were awarded. This

LAWRENCE .L'F'G CO. 4. JA- ESVILLE MILLS.

561

Opinion of the Court.

-

decree, then, was in accordance with the stipulation in respect
of damages and costs, but not as to the discontinuance, in place
of which an affirmative decree in plaintiff's favor was substituted. And this change, made with the written assent of
counsel for the respective parties as the record shows, dispensed with the occasion for a covenant on the part of the
Cotton Manufacturing Company not to use the letters "LL"
on goods of its manufacture after July 1, 1886, for such was
the restraint decreed. But the decree did not in terms enjoin
the successors of the Cotton Manufacturing Company, as a
corporation and in business, and its assigns, according to the
letter of the proposed agreement.
This, in plaintiff's view, left that decree incomplete, and
therefore it seeks in substance to have it pieced out and then
enforced under the prayer for general relief. There is no
prayer in the bill that the preliminary iiijunction be made
perpetual, but thkt would result if plaintiff succeeded, by a
decree under the general prayer, in subjecting this defendant
to the operation of the prior decree. But where a party
returns to a court of chancery to obtain its aid in executing
a former decree, it is at the risk of opening up such decree as
respects the relief to be granted on the new bill. Hlence, even
if it be assumed upon the evidence that the decree against the
old corporation bound the new one, yet this being in effect,
in one of the two aspects, and, perhaps, the sole aspect, in
which it is framed, a bill to carry the former consent decree
into execution, the Circuit Court was not obliged to do so if
it believed that decree erroneous; and that it was erroneous
we have already decided. Inasmuch as plaintiff came into a
court of equity to have the benefit of the former decree, the
court was at liberty to inquire whether circumstances justified
the relief. Mitf. Ch. P1: 96. Indeed, it would seem to have
devolved upon it to show that the decree was a right decree.
Such is the language of Lord Redesdale in -Inamilto v. lBoughton, 2 Bligh, 169, 193, and-of Lord Chancellor Sugden in
O'Connell v. .cl'lamnara, 3 Dr. & War. 411, 412. The same
principle was announced as early as 1700 by the Lord K[eeper
in Johnson v. _'orthey, Finch's Precedelits in Chancery, 134.
VOL. CXXXVII-36

OCTOBER TERIM, 1890.
Syllabus.

See also Lawrence v. Berney, 2 Rep. in Ch. *127; Adams Eq.
*416; 2 Dan. Ch. Pr. (4th ed.) 1586. This rule was much
considered and applied in TVadhams v. Gay, 73 Illinois, 415,
and approved by this court in Gay v. Parpart,106 U. S. 679.
The prior decree was the consequence of the consent and not
of the judgment of the court, and this being so, the court had
the right to decline to treat it as 'es ajudicata; WVadhams
v. Gay, Gay v., Parpart,sTra; Jenkins v. Robertson, L. R.
I Sc. App. 117; Brownsville v. Loague, 129 U. S. 493, 505;
Texas & Paoifo Railway v. Southern Pao;.§c Co., 137 U. S.
48, 56; Edgerton v. .3use, 2 Hill Eq. (So. Car.) 51; Lamb v.
Gatlin, 2 Dev. & Batt. Eq. 37; Bean v. Smith, 2 Mason, 252.
As, therefore, if the old company had defended the suit
aogainst it, it would have prevailed, the decree of the Circuit
Court, being correct upon the merits, is also correct in that
the court refused to be constrained by the previous erroneous
consent decree, to decree contrary to the right of the cause.
.Afirned.
X[R. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD did not sit in this case or take any
part in its decision; nor did MR. JUsTICE BROWN, who was not
a member of the court when the case was argued.

SOHELL'S EXECUTORS v. FAUCHE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 690.

Argued January 28, 1891.-Decided March 2,1891.

It appearing that at the date of the transactions in controversy, more than
,thirty years.ago, it was the custom for importers to pass in protests with
the entries, the court may presume that the usual course was pursued in
respect of a protest produced under subpoena at the trial from the proper
repository, where it had been lying for a long time, and that it was
made and served at its date, and before the payment of duties.
Two papers attached together by a wafer, and signed on the bottom of the
lower one, which when read together make a protest against two exactions
of duties, are to be treated as a unit.

