CRUMPTON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

CRUMPTON v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 1310. Argued and submitted January 16, 1891.-Decided February 2, 1891.

Whether a verdict in a trial for murder was contrary to the evidence can.
not be considered in this court, if there .was any evidence proper to go
to the jury in support of the verdict.
When the defendant's counsel in a criminal trial fails to at once call the
attention of the court to remarks by the prosecuting officer which are
supposed to be objectionable, and to request.its interposition, and, in

case of refusal, to note an exception, an assignment of error in regard
to them is untenable.
Whether, in a criminal case, a court will grant an application by the prisoner, made during the trial, for process for witnesses,. and will delay
the trial during the execution of the process, is a matter of discretion
with the trial court, not reviewable here.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. A. H. Garlandfor plaintiff in error.
Xr.,Solicitor General for defendants in error.
MR.

JUSTIcE

BROWN delivered the opinion of the court.

This waas a writ of error sued out under the sixth section
of the act of Congress of February 6, 1889, 25 Stat. 655; 656,
c. 113, ยง 6; to review a judgment of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Arkansas, imposing
a sentence of death upon the plaintiff in error for the murder
of Sam. M.. Morgan, "at the-Cherokee Nation, in the Indian
country." The plaintiff in error relied for a reversal of the
judgment upon the following grounds:
1. That the verdict was contrary to the evidence:
2. That the court erred in permitting the district attorney
to refer-in his argument to matters not in evidence:
3. That thecourt erred in refusing to grant the prisoner

362\

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

sufficient time to procure the testimony of three witnesses,
whose testimony he claims was material to his defence.
(1) It is clear that the question, whether the verdict was
contrary to the evidence, which is the first error assigned, is
not one which can be considered in this court, if there were
any evidence proper to-go to the jury in support of the verdict.
The testimony on behalf of the government tended- to show'
that deceased had, on the 3d of November, about fifty dollars
on his person; and that on the morning of that day, '"which
was Sundar, after having slept together the night before, the.
prisoner and the deceased, riding two horses belonging to the
deceased, started out from the house of Mrs. Harris, to visit.
some young women by the name of Davis, who lived about
four miles away. The prisoner was armed with a pistol.
About noon of that day shots were heard. by a witness for
1the .gpvernment in the neighborhood of the hole where the
body of the deceased was aft~rwards found, and in 'a short
time th6 defendant was seen riding one horse and leading the
other away from this place. Toward evening of the same day
the defendant returned to a house in the neighborhood of Mrs.
Harris's, with the two horses. When ipquired of as to the
deceased he sid that they had met a man riding in a buggy
on the prairie, who had induced the deceased to go with hiin
to the Pawnee Agency. He stated that the deceased had
directed him to bring the horses -back, to take charge of all
his effects, and to pay his debts in case he did-not return by a
certain time.
Three days before Christmas the body of the deceased was
found in the hole above referred to, which was some six or
seven feet dep, on the bank of Coody's Creek, and some three
miles from Mrs. Harris's. 'His hat had a bullet hole in it, and
his broken skull showed where the bullet had entered it and
caused his death. There was no doubt, from what was found
on his person, as to whose corpse it was, though the face and
front part of his skull had been battered so as to prevent recognition of'the features. No morey was found in his pockets.
... appeared from other evidence, and was admitted by the

CRUMPTON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinidn 'of the Court.

defendant, that some time before the disappearance of the
deceased the defendant had come upon this hole and was
familiar with its location. There was evidence showing that
an overcoat belonging to the deceased was in the possession of
the defendant the next day after the disappearance of the
deceased. Before the finding of the body on the 22d of December, the defendant exhibited two letters which he claimed
to have received from the deceased at the Pawnee Agency.
They were letters without envelopes. Defendant explained
the absence of envelopes by saying that the children had
destroyed them. On the trial the letters themselves could
not be found, and were not produced. When the body of the
deceased i4as found, and the report of it came to the defendant, he immediately left the settlement in which he lived and
went away some twenty or twenty-five miles, where he was
arrested.
The evidence for the defendant was conflicting. One man
testified that be saw a government witness, Burt by name, in
a carriage with the deceased, on the Sunday in question, going
toward the place where the body was found, and that later he
saw him returning without the deceased. This evidence was
at variance with the statement of the' defendant himself, who
swore that the man in whose buggy the deceased drove away
was not Burt.
There is no doubt that this testimony was sufficient to lay
before the jury, and it would have been improper to direct a
verdict for the defendant. The weight of this evidence and
the extent to which it was contradicted or explained away by
witnesses on behalf of the defendant, were questions exclusively
for the jury, and not reviewable upon writ of error. If the
verdict .weremanifestly against the weight of evidence, defendant was at liberty to move for a new trial upon that ground;
but that the granting or refusing of such a motion is a matter
of discretion is settled in _Freeborn v. Smith, 2 Wall. 160;
.Railway Company v. .eck, 102 U. S. 120; Lancasterv. Collins, 115 U. S. 222, and nany other cases in this court.
(2) The second assignment of error is clearly untenable. It
appears that during the argument of 'the case the defendant's

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

counsel said to the jury: " Either the defendant or Burt [a
government witness] is guilty of this crime. I will show you
that Burt is guilty, and, therefore, that defendant is not."
In reply to this, the district attorney, in his closing argument,
said: "The issue is squarely made by Mr. Neal, that either
the defendant or William Burt is guilty of this crime. I have
shown you that Burt is not guilty; therefore, by his logic, the
defendant is guilty." No objection was made at the time to
this argument, nor was the court requested to interrupt it, or
caution the jury against its force; and no exception appears to
have been taken. There is no doubt that, in the excitement
of an argument, counsel do sometimes make statements which
are not fully justified by the evidence. This is not such an
error, however, as will necessarily vitiate the verdict or require
a new trial. It is the duty of the defendant's counsel at once
to call the attention of the court to the objectionable remarks,
and request its interposition, and, in case of refusal, to note an
exception. Thomp. on Trials, ยง 962.
In the present case it is by no means clear that the district
attorney transcended the proper limits of an argument. Counsel for the defendant had tendered the issue to the jury, that
either his client or Burt was guilty of the crime, and we perceive no impropriety in the district attorney accepting the
challenge and attempting to demonstrate that Burt was not
guilty, and arguing that the jury, upon the issue thus presented.
had a right to infer that the defendant was guilty.
(3) The third assignment is based upon the refusal of the
court to grant an application by the prisoner for process for
'three witnesses, such process to be served at the expense of
the government. The trial was begun on the 27th of May,
1890; the application was not made until the 31st day of
May,-just before the 'defendant was called as the last witness
in his own behalf. It would probably have delayed the trial
a number of days to send the process into the Indian Territory,
make service of it there, and bring in 'these witnesses to
testify. Whether. the trial should be delayed for the production of these witnesses was clearly a matter of discretion
ana not reviewable upon a writ of error. The testimony of

UPSHUR v. BRISCOE.
Statement of the Case.

the proposed witnesses seems to have been of little importance,
and the application was to subpoena these witnesses at the
expense of the government, which would of itself have been
a matter of discretion, even had the application been made
before the trial began. Rev. Stat. ยง 878. It is clear that the
ruling of the court is not subject to review. Silsby v. Foote,
14 How. 218; Cook v. Burnley, 11 Wall. 672, 676.
There is no error in the proceedings in the court below, and
.Aflrmed.
the judgment must be

UPSHUR v. BRISCOE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 146.

Submitted January 12, 1891.-

Decided February 2, 1891.

The cases reviewed on the question of what are debts created by a bankrupt while acting in a fiduciary, character, so as not. to be discharged,
under ยง 33 of the bankruptcy at of March 2, 1867, c. 176 (14 Stat. 533).
The obligation in the present case held to have been discharged.
A debt is not created by a person while acting in a "1fiduciary character"
merely because it is created under circumstances in which trust or confidence is reposed in the debtor, in the popular sense of those terms.
In this case it was held that the widow of the bankrupt, who was alleged
to be a fraudulent grantee, was entitled to the benefit of his discharge,
she having pleaded it.

ON the 25th of January, 1857, James Andrews, of the par.
ish of Tensas, in the State of Louisiana, executed and delivered
to William J. Briscoe, also of said parish and State, the following instrument in writing:
"James Andrews
to
"Annie K. Andrews.

Donation.

"STATE OF L UISIA.A,

"Pariah of Tenszs.
"Know all.men by these presents'that I, James Aidrews,
of said parish and State, do p6mmate, constitute and, appoint
William J...Briscoe, also of said parish and State, my true and

