OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

"ยง 1869. The times limited for the bringing of actions
herein shall, in favor of minors and persons insane or under
any legal disability, be extended so that they shall have one
year from and after the termination of such disability within
which to commence said actions."
It was held by the Supreme Court of New Mexico, in
Browning v. Browning, 9 Pac. Rep. 677, 684, 685, that, the
limitations of the statute of January 23, 1880, of New Mexico, of which those three sections are a part, applied to proceedings in the Probate Court. We think this construction
was correct, and that the present suit is an action to annul a
former judgment of the Probate Court. Such is the character
of the judgment declaring the former probate to be null and
void.
Moreover, by sections 1446-144-9 of the Compiled Laws,
before quoted, the course of procedure of the probate judge
was distinctly defined, and he had no power to declare the
will void. On the contrary, his proceeding, not being in conformity with the provisions of the act of January 26, 1861,.
was, as declared by that act, null and of no effect.
Judgment afflmed.

CONSOLIDATED

ROLLER MILL COMPANY
WALKER.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES

.

FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 1485. Submitted January9, 1891.-Decided January 26, 1891.

Claim 1 of letters patent No. 228,525, granted June 8, 1880, to William D.
Gray, for an improvement in roller grinding-mills, namely, "1. In a
roller grinding-mill, the combination of the counter-shaft provided with
pulleys at both ends and having said ends mounted in vertically and
independently adjustable bearings, the rolls C E having pulleys connected
by belts with one end of the counter-shaft, and the rolls D F independently connected by belts with the other end of the counter-shaft, as
shown'," is invalid, because, in view of the state of the art, it does- not
embody a patentable invention.

CONSOLIDATED ROLLER MILL CO. v. WALKER.

125

Opinion of the Court.
The combination set forth in that claim evinces only the exercise of ordlnary mechanical or engineering skill.
That claim is not infringed by the use of a roller mill made in accordance
with letters patent No. 334,460, granted January 19, 1886, to John m'
Obenchain.

IN EQuIY.

Decree dismissing the bill. Plaintiff appealed.

The case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr. B-. 3ta8on for appellant.
. r. .Rober't 7. Pardnson and -r.
for appellee.

Joseph G. Parkinson

MR. JUsTICE BLA-TORFOiD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Pennsylvania, by
the Consolidated Roller Mill Company against R. R. Walker,
for the infringement of claim I of letters patent No. 228,525,
granted June 8, 1880, on an application filed May 2, 1879,
to William D. Gray, for an improvement in roller-grinding
mills. The Circuit Court, held by Judges McKennan and
Acheson, entered a decree dismissing the bill, with costs.
The case was heard on pleadings and proofs. The answer
denied the validity of the patent, charged want of n6velty and
of patentability, and denied infringement. The opinion of the
court (43 Fed. Rep. 575) was written by Judg&Acheson.
The specification and claims of the patent are as follows:
"My invention relates to that class of mills in which horizontal
grinding-rolls arranged in pairs are employed'; and the invention consists in the improved arrangement of belts and pullsys
for communicating motion to the rolls, and in other minor
details hereinafter described in detail. In the accompanying
drawings, Figure 1 represents a side elevation of the same;
Fig. 2, a top-plan view of the rolls and their operating-belts ;
and Fig. 3, an end elevation of the same, partly in section. It
has been found by experience that when the rolls are driven
by gearing a great deal of noise and a jarring of the parts of
the apparatus and trembling of the mill-floor result, and this

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

jarring and trembling in turn cause an unevenness of operation or grinding and a rapid and uneven wear of the rolls. To
obviate these difficulties and produce an even, steady motion,
I discard the gearing hitherto employed, and substitute therefor a system of belting arranged in a peculiar manner, to give
the proper direction and speed to the rolls. In the drawings,
A represents the frame or body of the machine, in the upper
part of which are mounted, in pairs, a series of grinding or
crushing rolls, 0 D E F. Above the grinding-rolls is arranged
a hopper provided with feeding-rolls G I, arranged to deliver
the grain to each pair of rolls. B represents a counter-shaft,
which is represented in the drawings as extending transversely
through the base of the frame or body A, parallel with the
grinding-rolls, but which may, if desired, be located entirely
without the machine. As represented in Figs. 1 and 2, the
grinding-rolls are furnished alternately at opposite ends each
with a belt-wheel or pulley, while the counter-shaft B is furnished at one end with one wheel or pulley and at its opposite end with two. N represents the main driving-belt, which
passes to and around the pulley c of the roll 0, thence downward and around pulley b of the counter-shaft B, thence
upward and around pulley e of the roll E, and back to the
source of power, imparting to the rolls 0 and E a motion in
one direction, and to the counter-shaft a motion in the reverse
direction. From the pulleys V' V" on the rear end of the
counter-shaft B, belts P and R pass upward and around pulleys
d andf of the rolls D F, as shown in Fig. 2, imparting to said
rolls a motion the reverse of t hat of the rolls C E. In this
way the two rolls of each set are caused to revolve toward
each other while. being all driven from a common source
primarily.
"The use of belting obviates all the noise incident to gearing and produces a much more even and steady motion, each
roller being driven from the counter-shaft, instead of one from
another, as heretofore. Another advantage incident to the
arrangement of belting above described is, that by simply
removing the pulley of any shaft and replacing it with another'
of proper size, any desired difference in the speed of the rolls

CONSOLIDATED ROLLER MILL CO. v. WALKER.

127

Opinion of the Court.

may be obtained, whereas in the case of gearing this cannot
be accomplished except through the use of a very complicated
arrangement of intermediate wheels. In order to adapt the
counter-shaft B to perform the double purpose of reversing
the motion of certain of the rolls and of acting as a belttightener, it is mounted, at opposite sides of the frame or body
A, in boxes swivelled or hung in yokes L, sliding vertically in
8aides or boxes K, and adjusted up and down therein by screw
rods or stems S, the swivel-boxes permitting a slightly greater
movement of the shaft B at the one end than at the other,
without interfering with its free rotation, and thereby permitting the tightening of the belt or belts at one side of the
machine, without disturbing those at the other. In order to
adjust and maintain the rolls 0 D and E F in proper relation
to each other, the two outer rolls, 0 and F, are carried in sliding-boxes, which are formed each with a T rib or standard, m,
moving in a groove or way of corresponding shape, the rolls
being held up to their operative position by springs 'U, which,
in turn, are regulated in pressure by screws T. Clampingscrews may be arranged to secure the sliding-boxes Q in any
desired position. By the above arrangement of the slidingboxes they are prevented from being advanced or retracted
unequally, and thereby giving the rolls a 'winding' position.
It is desirable that, when the rolls are not employed in grinding, they should be held apart, as otherwise they would be
liable to injury by direct contact, and also subjected to unnecessary wear. To accomplish their ready separation I place
just in front of each sliding-box Q a.rotating cam or eccentric, Y, Which, when turned in one direction, permits the box
to be advanced, but when given a partial revolution about fts
axis, forces and holds back the same.
"The meal, after being crushed by the rollers, sometimes
packs or cakes together; and, for the purpose of regranulating
the same, it is passed through a disintegrator. The disintegrator-cylinder may be mounted on and driven by the countershaft B, as shown in Fig. 3, in which case the usual surrounding
shell or casing (shown in the drawings) will need to be adjustable vertically.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

"The peculiar manner of or means for adjusting the shell
forms no part of the present invention, and need not, therefore, be described in detail herein. Many arrangementssuch as the use of bolts and slots, or adjusting-screws, for
example - will suggest themselves to the skilled mechanic.
"Machines of this class are found to be impaired in their
operation through the heating of the roller-journals. To overcome this defect I form on the shafts of the rollers, and also
on the counter-shaft, near each end, a collar, x, which serves
both to prevent end play of the shaft, and to carry upward
continually a supply of oil from the chamber or supply z to
the upper side of the shaft and box, whence it spreads out
over the entire surface of the bearing and journal. The boxes
are each formed with an annular oil-chamber, v, at each end,
communicating by inclined passages w with the supply chamber
or sink z. In this way a perfect lubrication of the bearings is
constantly maintained and heating is obviated. The feedrolls G H are furnished at their ends with pulleys g A, which
are driven by belts from the grinding-rolls D E, which, being
stationary, cannot interfere with the tension of the belts, as
would the adjustable rolls 0 F.
"I am aware that various devices have hitherto been emnployed to regulate the distance between the rolls, in order
to govern the fineness of the material delivered from them,
and I am also aware that shafts have been made movable in
such manner as to tighten belts passing over pulleys on other
shafts, and I lay no claim thereto; but I believe myself the
first to construct and organize a grinding-mill in the peculiar
manner herein shown and described, whereby the single belt
is caused to operate the various parts in the required directions
and the disintegrating-cylinder caused to keep the belt tight.
"Having thus described my invention, what I claim is
"1. In a roller grinding-mill, the combination of the countershaft provided with pulleys at both ends and having said ends
mounted in vertically and independently adjustable bearings,
the rolls C E having pulleys connected by belts with one end
of the counter-shaft, and the rolls D F independently connected
by belts with the other end of the counter-shaft, as shown.

CONSOLIDATED ROLLER MILL CO. v. WALKER.

129

Opinion of the Court.

"2. In a roller grinding-mill, a disintegrating-cylinder connected at its two ends by belts with the rolls, in combination
with independently and vertically adjustable supports connected by transverse pivots with the boxes sustiaining the ends,
of the cylinder, in the manner described and shown.
"3. In a roller-mill, the combination of the frame, the
cylinder, the -pivoted bearings K, the forked arms L, having
the bearings therein, and the screw S, as shown."
The opinion of the Circuit Court, after quoting from the
specification, says: "Gray's specification, as our quotations
therefrom indicate, suggests the idea that he was the first to
apply belt-drives to roller grinding-mills. But the fact is
otherwise, as the proofs abundantly show. Nor was he the
first to discard from such mills cog-gearing and friction gears
altogether and substitute therefor belt-driving." The opinion
then refers to Mechwart's Austrian patent, granted August 3,
1875, extracts from which, as found in the record, are as follows: "The arrangement invented by me has for its object
an advance in the former method of driving the codperdting
rollers of any particular roller mill. This end has heretofore
been obtained exclusively either by the intermeshing of both
rollers through the means of spur gear, or else through the
naked driving of the one roller from the driven roller by
means of friction produced through any pressure whatever
between the rollers.

.

.

.

The substance of the invention,

which I consider new and desirable for patent, donsists in the
use of belts for the driving of each single roller of a pair in
roller mills for the begetting of mill products in any desired
relation of. the two co~6perating rolls to each other. Heretofdre, in roller mills, one roll of a pair, has been driven from
the other by means o spur gearing or by means of friction
caused by the pressure between the rollers. The transmission
of movement 'through spur gearing has, however, the disadvantage that, through the unavoidable inequality of the
intermeshing, an unequal movement of the rollers ensues,
which 'results, according to experience, in the rapid loss of
'true' and in unequal wearing away of the rollers; besides
this, the disagreeable rattling of spur gearing and the rapid
VOL. cxxxvmI-9

OCTOBER TERAI

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

wearing away of the gears themselves is a disadvantage. The
driving of the second roller by means of friction of the two
rollers pressed together is only practical when the chop passes
the rollers in very thin strata and not in coarse particles. In
case of the latter the friction will be relieved and the driven
roller be stopped ; besides this, only an equal peripheral speed
of the rollers is permitted by this construction, and therefore
it is not applicable when an unequal speed is desired, as for
example, in the grinding of the middlings into flour. These
disadvantages the inventor has removed by his application of
belt-drive to every single roller of a roller pair of a roller mill,
which, according to his best knowledge and conscience, has
never been employed in similar machines and is entirely new,
so that, by means of such transmission of movement, an equal
revolution is obtained, which is impossible with spur gearing. In the accompanying three drawings are six different
arrangements, shown for different groupings of the rollers,
although I do not thereby intend to exclude every other
possible arrangement."
The opinion then proceeds: "We find therein distinctly set
forth the disadvantages resulting from the use of spur gearing
in roller grinding-mills, viz., the disagreeable rattling, the rapid
wearing away of the gears, and the unequal movement and
unequal wearing away of the rollers, and also the inefficiency
of driving by means of frictional contact between the rolls,
which latter, it is set forth, is only practical when the chop
passes the rollers in very thin layers and not in coarse particles,
and is not applicable when an unequal peripheral speed of the
rolls is required. All these disadvantages, it is declared, are
avoided by Ifechwart's invention, which consists in driving
both coSperating rolls by means of belts, whereby, also, can
be obtained an equal and also an unequal peripheral speed,
while the diameter of the rolls, as well as the diameter of the
belt pulleys, tan be varied relatively to each other for different
objects. Mechwart's drawings show, as examples, six different arrangements of belting, which, he states, are intended to
illustrate 'only some of the different arrangements of the beltdrive for roller mills, without exhausting the possible varia-

CONSOLIDATED ROLLER MILL CO. v. WALKER. 131
Opinion of the Court.

tions in its application.' Figure 3, sheet A, shows a machine
having two pairs of grinding rolls, the pairs being vertical and
arranged side by side. A shaft., mounted in the machine
frame in fixed bearings, carries two pulleys, one at each side
of the machine. A belt from one of these pulleys passes
around a tightening pulley at the upper right-hand corner of
the machine, thence around a pulley on the upper left-hand
roll shaft, thence around a pulley on the lower right-hand roll
shaft, and thence back to the driving pulley; and by this belt
one roll of each pair is driven. From the other pulley, on the
other side of the machine, a belt is arranged in a similar manner, so as to drive the other two rolls of the pair. Without
further description of the 1Mechwart system, it is en(ugh to
say that his patent disclosed roller grinding-mills, single and
double, with both vertical and horizontal pairs of rolls arranged
side by side, driven by means of belts exclusively, his machine
being equipped with adjusting or tightening pulleys, and having a shaft journalled directly into the machine frame and
receiving its motion from the prime mover of the mill, either
directly or by belt:"
It then says: "But turning now to machinery employed in
the arts generally, it is certain that the use of belt-gearing
interchangeably with or as a substitute for cog-gearing was
very old and common before Gray's alleged invention. It was,
too, an old and familiar expedient to keep the belt adjusted to
a proper degree of tightness by means of tightening pulleys,
the shafts of which, in revolving, sometimes did other work
about the machine- and shafts had been made movable in
such manner as to tighten belts passing over pulleys .on other
shafts. It was also old, and very common in machine shops
and factories of various kinds, to provide an individual' machine
with a counter-shaft mounted directly in the machine frame,
the counter-shaft being driven by a belt from the line-shaft,
and the machine by a belt from the counter-shaft. Furthermore, it was no new thing to provide the journal boxes or
hangers in which counter-shafts are mounted with means for
independently adjusting the ends of the shaft." It then adds
that, in view of the things referred to, the court is unable to

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

discover any patentable subject matter in claim 1 of Gray's
patent; and that it falls directly within the established principle, that the application of an old process, machine or device
to a like or analogous purpose, with no change in the mode of
application and no result substantially different in its nature,
will not sustain a patent, even if the new form of result has
not before been contemplated; citing Pennsylvania Railroad
Co. v. Locomotive Truck Co., 110 U. S. 490, and Blake v. San
Francisco, 113 U. S. 679.
It then says that it is quite clear, moreover, that the application of belting to drive roller grinding-iiills, to obviate the
difficulties incident to the use of cog-gearing and to secure the
advantages set forth in Gray's specification, did not originate
with him; and that, therefore, even were it conceded that his
peculiar arrangement is attended with better results than had
been attained previously, still this would not sustain the
patent, for, the mere carrying forward of an original conception, resulting in an improvement, in degree simply, is not
invention; citing Burt v. .Evory, 133 U. S. 349, and that the
conclusion is unavoidable, that the combination set forth in
Gray's first claim evinces only the exercise of ordinary mechanical or engineering skill; citing Hollisterv. Benedict _lfg. Co.,
113 U. S. 59; Thompson v. Boisselier, 114 "U.S. 1; Aron v.
Manhattan Pail'way Co., 132 U. S. 84; Hill v. Wooster, 132
U. S. 693, 701; and Howe Machine Co. v. National NYeedle
Co., 134 U. S. 388. We fully concur in these views and conclusions, and regard them as entirely sufficient to justify the
decree.
The Circuit Court further says: "It seems to be proper for
us to add that our judgment is with the defendant upon the
defence of non-infringement also. To understand the nature
of the invention intended to be covered by the first claim,.
resort must be had to the specification, and we there find that
the 'swivel boxes' are essential to the contemplated greater
movement at one end of the shaft than at the other, whereby
is effected 'the tightening of the belt or belts at one side of
the machine, without disturbing those at the other.' This is
apparent on the face of the paragraph hereinbefore quoted at

CONSOLIDATED ROLLER MILL CO. v. WALKER. 133
Opinion of the Court.

length; and the expert testimony is direct and convincing,
that, to the practical working of the described device as a
belt-tightener, this swivelling feature is indispensable. Without the swivelled boxes Gray would not, have -'independently
adjustable bearings.' True, those boxes are not
mentioned in the claim, but we think they are to be regarded
as entering therein by necessary implication, for the reason
just stated, as well as by force of the words 'as shown.'
:Moreover, the prior state of the art would limit the claim to
the specific organization shown and described. Phtwniao Caster
Co. v. Spiegel, 133 U. S. 360, 369. But that organization the
defendant does not use. His alleged infringement consists in
the use of a roller mill manufactured under and in accordance
with letters patent No. 334,460, granted on January 19, 1886,
to John T. Obenchain. In the defendant's machine the journal boxes are rigidly supported so as to be always horizontal,
and incapable of any tilting or swivelling motion; and this
is essential to the working of the apparatus. A continuous
counter-shaft is not employed, but three coupled base-shafts,
the outer shafts or sections being each journalled at the outer
end in a vertically adjustable non-swivelling box, and the inner
end of each being forked and carrying a loosely pivoted ring.
These two rings are connected by a tumbling rod forked at
each end and pivoted to the rings, thus forming a universal
coupling, and thereby, through the central shaft or tumbling
rod, rotary motion is transmitted from one of the end shafts
or sections to the other, no matter how much they may differ
in vertical position. Now, for the reasons already given, we
are of opinion that such a construction of Gray's first claim as
would embrace the Obenchain device is inadmissible." We
see no reason to doubt the correctness of' these views.
-6xpressly

Dearee affrmed.

