CASES ADJUDGED

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.

JOY v. ST. LOUIS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

6TATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 106.

Argued December 9, 10, 1890. -Decided January 19, 1891.

In this case it was held that, under two agreements made August 11, 1875,
one between the St. Louis County Railroad Company and the St. Louis,
Kansas City and Northern Railway Company, and the other called the
"tripartite agreement," between the Commissioners of Forest Park in
the city of St. Louis, the said County company and the said Kansas City
company, and a deed of the same date from the former company to the
latter company, the Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railway Company
was bound to permit the St. Louis, Kans." City and Colorado Railroad
Company to use its right of way from the north line of Forest Park,
through the park, to the terminus of the Wabash company's road, at
Union Depot, on Eighteenth Street, in St. Louis, fol a fair and equitable
compensation.
The covenants in paragraph 9 of the tripartite agr'eement, as to the use of
the right of way by other railroad companies, are binding upon subsequent purchasers, with notice, from the Kansas City company.
That agreement being a link in the chain of title of the appellants, they
must be held to have had notice of its covenants, and are bound by them,
whether they be or be not strictly such as run with the land.
Paragraph 9 of the tripartite agreement created an easement in the property
of the.County company and the Kansas City company, for the benefit of
the public, which might be availed of, with the consent of the public
authorities, properly expressed, by other railroad companies which might
VO. CXXXVTrT - 1
1

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.
wish to use not only the right of ,way through the park, but also that
between the park and the Union Depot.
The two agreements and the deed constituted a single transaction, and
should be construed together, and liberally in favor of the public.
Such easement covered the tracks through the park and the tracks east of
the park to the Union Depot.
The Circuit Court had power to enforce the specific performance of the
agreement by enjoining the appellants from preventing the Colorado
company from using the right of way; and to fix the amount of compensation by its use.
A cemedy-at law would be wholly inadequate.
The rights of.the public in respect to railroads should be fostered by the
courts.
The object of protecting the park, and that of preserving and fostering the
commerce of the city, were set forth in the tripartite agreement, and
the city of St. Louis, a plaintiffin the suit, as charged with those duties,
was not merely a nominal party to this suit.

THIS was an appeal by James F. Joy, Thomas II. Hubbard,
Edgar T. Welles, and 0. D. Ashley, as purchasing committee,
the Central Trust Company of New York and James Cheney,
as trustees, and the 'Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railway
Company, a Missouri corporation, (hereinafter called the
Wabash company,) from a decree of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Missouri, made
December 31, 1886, on a bill of intervention filed July 12,
1886, in the same court, by the City of St. Louis, a municipal
corporation of the State of Missouri, and the St. Louis, Kansas
City and Colorado Railroad Company, a Kansas corporation,
(hereinafter called the Colorado company,) against the Wabash
company and its receivers. This bill of intervention was filed
in two causes pending in the same court consolidated into one.
One of them was a bill in equity filed by the Wabash company against the Central Trust Company of New York and
others, on the 27th of May, 1884, for the appointmneiit of
receivers of the Wabash company, because of its inhsolvency,
setting forth that it had executed two mortgages, one k
-nown
as the "general mortgage," and the other as the "collateral
trust mortgage," the first of them June 1, 1880, to the Central
Trust Company of New York and James Cheney, as trustees,
and the other of them May 1, 1883, to the :Mercantile Trust

JOY v. ST. LOUIS.
Statement of the Case.

Company of N'ew York. In the 'said suit, a cross-bill was
filed in the same court, on June 9, 1884, by the Central Trust
Company of New York and James Cheney, as trustees, to
foreclose the said "general mortgage" and certain sustaining
mortgages executed in aid of it., -An amended bill was filed
June 15, 1884, and an amended cross-bill October 14, 1884.
The second suit was one brought 'January 13, 1885, by the
Central Trust Company of New York and James Cheney, as
trustees, in the Circuit Court of the city of St. Louis in Missouri, against the Wabash company and others, praying the
same relief prayed for in such cross-bill filed June 9, 1884.
This suit was removed into the Circuit Court of the United.
States for the Eastern District of Missouri, and was consolidated, on March 19, 1885, with the suit, the bill in which
was filed May 27, 1884.
A decree of foreclosure and sale was made in the consolidated cause on January 6, 1886, under which, on April 26,
1886, the railroads and.property were sold to Joy, Hubbard,
Welles, and Ashley, as purchasers. The, sale was confirmed
June I5, 1886; and deeds were ordered to be executed to the
purchasers. Meantime, and before the deeds were executed,
the bill -of intervention was filed. The railroad tproperty in
question was all the time in the hands of Solon Humphreys
and Thomas E. Tatt, as receivers appointed by the court on
May 27, 1884.
The facts involved in the present appeal -depend almost entirely upon documentary evidence, and as agreed upon by the
parties in their respective briefs may be stated as follows:
This action was brought to compel the specific perfori'ance
of a contract through which the Colorado company claimcd
to be entitled to a joint use, with the Wabash .company, vL
that portion of the tracks of the latter company: which extends
eastwardly from a point on the northern line of Forest Park,
through the park, and from thence to the Union Depot in
the- city of St. Louis, at Eighteenth Street. The facts out of
which the controve'sy arose were, substantially, as follows:
(1) In August, 1871, a railway corporation known as the St.
Louis CountyRailroad Company (hereinafter called the County

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

company) was organized under the general laws of Missouri,
to construct a narrow gauge railroad, from the city of St.
Louis, in a westerly direction, to a point in the county of St.
Louis 16 miles from the city.
(2) On November 3, 1871, W. D. Griswold was the owner
of a tract of land lying immediately west of the city of St.
,Louis, known as the Cabanne Dairy Farm, and on that date
he sold and conveyed to the County company a right of way
forty feet in width, through the tract owned by hhu.
(3) On March 25, 1874, the legislature of Missouri passed
an act for the establishment of Forest Park, in the county of
St. Louis, immediately west of the city. The act described
the property which might be taken by condemnation for park
purposes, and included the farm or tract owned by Griswold.
The third section of the act contained the following proviso:
"Provided,That nothing in this act contained shall prevent
the St. Louis County Railroad Company from using and occupying a right of way of the width- of not more than seventy
feet through the northeasten portion of said Forest Park; the
said railroad shall only enter the park through Duncan's subdivision on the east side of said park, and running westwardly
on the northern side of the river des Peres, shall pass out of
said park at a point on the northern line thereof, east of Union
Avenue: And povidedcfurther,That no switch or siding shall
be constructed by said railioad company in said park, nor shall
more than one depot be established in said park, and that
shall b.p for passengers only: Andprovidedfurther,That the
grade of said railroad, as far as the same runs through said
Forest Park, shall be approved by said park- commissioners."
(Laws of Missouri, 1874, p. 371.)
(4) On August 11, 1875, the County company having
located its line between the, city and the park, and having
acquired some detached portions of a right of way through a
number of lots and blocks between the Union Depot and the
park, and the St. Louis, Kansas City and Northern Railway
Company (hereinafter, called the Kansas City company) already
having a line of railroad from St. Louis to Kansas City, which
'connected on the northern line of the park with the right of

JOY v. ST. LOUIS.
Statement of the Case.

way and line of the County company, those two companies
entered into a written contract, in which the County company
a(rreed to convey to the Kansas Citv company, for the sum of
$125,000, a strip twenty-eight feet wide through each tract
owned by it, between the eastern line of the park and, the
western limits of the city; and a strip thirty feet in width
through each tract lying between the western limits of the
city and the Union Depot at Eighteenth Street; and also an
undivided one-half of all the. right of way it then owned or
might thereafter acquire through the park. The contract also
provided, among -other things, that inasmuch as the Kansas.
City company was to make a tunnel and cut just east of the
park, it should let the trains of the County company pass
through said tunnel and cut under such regulations and restrictions as were agreed upon with respect to trains in the park
and elsewhere. It was then provided, that the use of the
property in the park and through the tunnel and cut should
be in common, but that the Kansas City company should have
absolute control of the running and starting of its own trains
and the making of its own time-tables, and that no train of
the Counpy company, or its assigns, should be started within
eight minutes of the time fixed for starting the trains of the
Kansas City company; that there should be twenty minutes'
time between the starting and coming in of the trains of the
County company; that only the County company should have
a depot in the park ; and that the Kansas City company should
not have a depot or stop its trains in the park. The contract
also provided, that at two specified places within the city lirnits where the right of way of the County cornpany was narrowest, it (the County company) might lay and use one rail on
the right of way of the Kansas City company; that where
proceedings for condemnation, or negotiations, had been commenced by the County company the same shoulhd be prosecuted,
or discontinued, as requested by the president of the Kansas
City company; that, in consideration of-the covenants therein
contained, and of certain covenants and agreements on the
part of the Commissioners of Forest Park contained in another
agreement of even date therewith, the Kansas City company

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

should construct and maintain its railroad through the park,
tunnel and cut, for the joint use of both of said railroad companies; and that the County company would within two years
pay to the Kansas City company one-half of the actual cost of
constructing said road through said park, and said tunnel and
cut, or forever relinquish to the Kansas City company all
claims to the road and property in said park, tunnel and cut.
This contract was signed by said parties and delivered, but it
was never acknowledged or recorded in the effice of the
county recorder.
(5) On the same day the foregoing contract was made, the
County company, in pursuance of its agreement, conveyed to
the Kansas City company a strip. twenty-eight feet in width
-through each lot or tract owned by, it between the eastern
line of the park and the western Iimits of the city; a strip
thirty feet wide through each lot or tract owned by it between the western limits of the city and Tayon Avenue in the
city of St. Louis; and an undivided one-half of all its right,
title and interest in or to the righte of way and other privileges and franchises then owned or held by it, or which might
thereafter be owned or held by it, through said park. The
portions of the foregoing deed which were material to this
controversy were as follows: "And also the said party of
the first part" [the County company] "hath conveyed, assigned, and transferred, and by these presents doth convey,
assign, afid transfer unto the said party of the second part"
[the Kansas City company] "the right of way over and upon
the following described piece of land, situated between King's
Highway and Union Avenue, a strip of land twenty-eight (28)
feet in width off the southern portion, and for the whole
length thereof, of that part of the right of way granted to
said party of the first part by W. D. Griswold by deed dated
ovember 3, 1871, and recorded in tlie office of the recorder
of St-Louis County, aforesaid, in book 443, page 96,- lying
betweei the northern line of'Forest Park and the eastern line
of Union Avenue, all of whicht right -of way conveyed by said
'deed is described as follows, to Wit: A strip of lan4-.forty
(40) feet in width, thecentre line of which begins at King's

JOY v. ST. LOUIS.
Statement of the Case.

Elighway, twenty (20) feet noith cf the southeast corner of
the land of said Griswold, known as the Cabanne Dairy Farm,
and running thence westerly along parallel to the south line
thereof eight hundred and twenty-five (825) feet; thence by a
curve eleven hundred and seventy. (1170) feet long, bearing
northwest with a radius of nineteen hundred and three (1903)
feet; thence by a line bearing north 55 west, about ten hundred and ninety (1090), feet to a point on Union Avenue, not
less than four hundred and eighty-seven (487) feet south of the
northeast corner of Robert Forsyth's land.

.

.

.

And also

the said party of the first part bath conveyed, assigned and
transferred, and by these presents doth convey, assign and transfer unto the said party of the second part and to its successors
and assigns, an undivided one-half of all the right, title or interest of the party of the first part of, in or to the right of
way, and of, in or to any and all other rights, privileges and
franchises, powers and immunities, owned by or vested in, or
enjoyed by, or that may hereafter be acquired and owned by,
vested in or enjoyed by, the party of the first part, in, through
or upon Forest Park by any means or from any source whatever; all of which conveyances of the said rights of way in
this deed mentioned are made subject- to the terms and conditions upon which the same were. granted to the party of the
first part." The foregoing deed contained the ordinary covenants of warranty, and was duly acknowledged and recorded
in the office of the recorder of said county, August 13, 1875.
The several pieces bf right of way owned by the County company and conveyed .by it to the Kansas City company are indicated in blue on Chart A, in the printed record.
(6) On the same day (August 11, 187 ) another agreement
was entered into, known as the "tripartite agreement," the
parties to it being the Commissioners of Forest Park, party of
the first part, the County company, party of the second part,
and the Kansas City company, party of the third part. This
tripartite agreement began by reciting: "That said Forest
Park Commissioners, in consideration of the relinquishments,
agreements and stipulations hereinafter contained, on the part
of the said party of the second part, do hereby accept and ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

prove the line and grade of said railroad as laid down and
d.escribed upon the accompanying plat and profile hereto attached and forming part of this agreement, and said line and
grade, in case there is no forfeiture of this agreement, is
hereby fixed as the sole and finally established right of way
to. which said party of the second part is entitled by statute
or otherwise through said park, or any part thereof, and the
width of said right of way, as established by statute, is hereby
reduced from seventy (70) feet and fixed at fQrty-two (42)
feet between its outer points." The County company then
relinquished twenty-eight feet off the seventy feet of its
right of way established by statute through the park, leaving its right of way through the park forty-two feet in width.
•The agreement then, in eight successive paragraphs, provided for the manner of constructing the road-bed through
the park by the County company - that it should not be so
constructed as to mar the landscape beauty of the park;
and for the building of a depot in the park just outside of
the right of way, but immediately adjoining it. The eighth
and ninth paragraphs read as follows: "Eighth. The work
ot constructing said railroad through said park shall be conimenced in good faith by the party, as hereinafter specified,
within ninety (90) day§ from the delivery hereof, and shall
be completed in one year thereafter under penalty of a forfeiture of this agreement, and upon completion thereof the
railroads shall be operated through said park so as to prevent
unnecessary noise or inconvenience to the public, as far as
reasonably practicable, and the roads or their assigns shall
comply with all reasonable rules or regulations of said Park
Commissioners in that respect, and. all of the aforesaid permanent improvements shall be-kept and maintained in such condition as will not injuriously affect or mar the landscape beauty
of the parlk, this provision referring to the aforesaid forty-two
(42) feet right of way road-bed ; and said party of the second
part, or its assigns, shall also keep its police or guard, within
the limits of the park, neatly uniformed. Ninth. Said party
of the second part shall permit, under such reasonable regulations and terms as may be agreed upon, other railroads to use

JOY v. ST. LOUIS.
Statement of the Case.

its right of way through the park .and up to the ternxinus,ot
its road in the city of St. Louis, upn, sucih terms and" for suehr
fair and equitable compensation to be paid to it therefor as
may be agreed upon by such companies." The tenth para,
graph was an admission by the County company that its right
of way was not exclusive, and that the agreement was not to
be construed as limiting or impairing the right of the-Park
Commissioners to grant other rights of way to other railroadcompanies. The twelfth paragraph was as follows: "And
whereas, for the purpose of enabling the party of the. third
part to reach the Union Depot of St. Louis, Missouri, an amicable arrangement and agreement for a right of way outside
of and through said Forest Park has been made and entered
into by and.,between the parties of the second and third parts,
and in pursul.nce thereof the parties of the second and third
parts are to enter upon'.and enjoy the right of way and all
the rights, privileges, immunities, powers, improvements and
property belonging to or vested in, or that may belong to or
vest in, the party of the second part, in common, in, upon
and through said park, under certain regulations, terms and
conditions agreed upon by and between said parties thei-ein;
and whereas the party of the third part, in further pursuance
of said last-named agreement, is about to construct, maintain
and operate a railroad in, upon and through said park, at great
expense, and to engage in other great outlays -and to assume
other heavy burthens and responsibilities to be of advantage
to said third party through the- contihued-enjoyment of said
right of way -and other rights, privileges, powers, franchises,
immunities, improvements and property in, upon and through
said park: Now, therefore, in view of the premises and as
inducements to said party of the third part to proceed as
intended, the party of the first part does .hereby grant and
convey'unto, and license and permit, the said party of the
third part, ,its successors and assigns, to have, hold, use and
enjoy said right 'of way in, upon and through said park, in
common with and to be held and enjoyed jointly with said
party of the second part and its assigns, on the terms of the
said contract between them, and under the*same terms and

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

conditions as are hereby and hereinbefore imposed upon said
party of the second part, and which are hereby assumed by
said party of the third part as to improvements, except as to
building a depot and switch in said park, which the party of
the second part is to ,do itself; or in case said party of the
second part, its successors or assigns, should forfeit its said
rights, privileges and franchises in, upon and through said
park, or from any cause cease to have, maintain or enjoy-the
same, then it is hereby agreed-and convenanted that the party
of the third part shall not also be excluded from said park but
shall, with its successors and assigns, continue to have, maintain
and enjoy all of said rights, privileges, immunities, franchises,
improvements and property, on the terms hereinbefore set
forth, continuously and forever." The thirteenth paragraph
provided that the Kansas City company should have no depot
in the park. The fourteenth paragraph, in so far as it is
material, was as follows, "Now, therefore, in consideration
thereof and of the agreement of the party of the third part
herein, the party of the first part herein accepts the agreement and contract of the party of the third part herein to
execute, perform and comply with all of the terms, provisions
and thinga herein mentioned to be done, performed or complied with as to said improvements, except as aforesaid, by
the party of the second part hereto, and in lieu and stead of
said party of the second part hereto, so far as assumed as*
aforesaid, releasing it therefrom,- and in consideration thereof
the party of the third part hereto covenants and agrees with
the other parties hereto that it ivill,'in lieu and stead of the
party of the setond part hereto, do, perform and comply with
all the terms and provisions, matters and things, herein expressed to be done, performed or complied with by said party
of. the second part as to 'said improvements, except as afore-said, subject -to .the terms and conditions in said agreement of
even date herewith contained ; and it is hereby expressly covenanted and agreed that a compliance by th'e party of the third
part, for itself, or for itself and the party of the second part
jointly, in.the construction of -said 'railroad in, upon and
through said park, tunnel and cut in accordance with the

JOY v. ST. LOUIS.
Statement of the Case.

terms of this agreement, shall be taken and accepted as performance of the conditions impo&d upon said party of the
second part; and it is further expressly covenanted and agreed
that all and every part of the work, its kind, description and
extent, to be performed by either of said parties of the second
or third parts is hereinabove expressed, and neither of said
parties shall be held or required to do or perform any other or
further work and conditions than those hereby definitely set
forth." The last clause of the contract provided that neither
of said railroad cbmpanies should be required to supply any
material, or do any of the work, necessary to construct or
maintain either of the arched entrances into or exits from said
park, but that all the work and material required in the construction of said arches should be paid for by the Park Commissioners. The foregoing contract was signed by the parties,
but it was never acknowledged as a deed. It was afterwards,
in 1879, recorded in the office of the.county recorder.
(7) The evidence showed that, after the execution of the
foregoing deed and contracts, the Kainsas City company acquired from divers parties the necessary additional right of
way between the park and the Union Depot, and proceeded
to construct and put in operation its road through the park,
tunnel and cut, and on down to the Union Depot in the city,
the road through the park being on the line established by the
tripartite agreement; that at-the same time the Park Commissioners proceeded with the work referred to in the last clause
of that agreem.ent, and expended for material and work on
the arched entrances or exits, rendered necessary by the presence of the railroad in the park, and in the erection of walls
for the tunnel in the park, nearly $40,000,; that the road
through: the park was completed in 1876 by the Kansas City
company; and that, the County company having failed in
the performance of all its covenants, and having failed to
refund to the Kansas City company any portion of the cost of
constructing the road through the park, it lost and abandoned
all claim to the right of way and Toad-bed through the park,tunnel and cut, and the Kansas City company thereupon,
under the terms of the agreement.. took sole control of the

OCTOBER TEAM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

road through the park, tunnel and cut. Afterwards, in 1878,
it acquired, by purchase from third parties, all the property
and rights of way of the County company between the park
and the Union Depot.
(8) In 1879, the Kansas City company was consolidated with
the Wabash Railway company under the name of the "Wabash, St. Louis and :Pacific Railway Company." The Wabash
company assumed all the obligations of the Kansas City
company, and in so far as this controversy is concerned the
consolidation was only a change of name.
(9) In 1880, the Wabash company conveyed its property in
trust to the Central Trust Company of New York and James
Cheney, to secure a series of bonds, $18,000,000 of which were
issued and sold. In 1884, the Wabash company became insolvent, and Solon Humphreys and Thomas E. Tutt were, by the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Missouri, appointed receivers of its property, and afterwards
bills were filed by the Central Trust Company and Oheney to
foreclose said mortgage, as before me'ntioned.
(10) In 1886, while Humphreys and Tutt, receivers, were
i~n
possession of the Wabash property, the Colorado company
having constructed a line of railroad connecting with the
Wabash road at the north line of Forest Park, and of the
same gauge, demanded of the receivers perr@,ssion to run its
carsover the Wabash'tracks through the park and down to
the Union Depot in the 4ity, which. Union Depot was, on
August 11, 1.875, and has since confinued to be, the only general passenger depot-reacfied by all railroads entering the
city. The Colorado company.contended that it was entitl6d
to. this, right under the contracts aforesaid, and particularly
xinder the provisions of the ninth and the subsequent paragraphs of the tripartite agreement. This claim was denied
by the receivers, and thereupon the Colorado company and
the city of St. Louis filed their said bill of intervention, setting
forth the facts above stated, and praying the court- to enjoin
and restrain the Wabash company and the 'receivers from
interfering with its use of said property. The city of St. 1&iiis
joined in the proceeding as the successor of the Park Con-

JOY v. ST. LOUIS.
Statement of the Case.

missioners, the park having, by appropriate legislation, been
brought within the jurisdiction of the city. An amended bill
of intervention was filed August 4, 1886. The prayer of the
amended bill was as follows: "Your orators pray that a writ
of injunction issue out of and under the seal of this honorable
court enjoining and restraining the said Wabash, St. Louis and
Pacific Railway Company, and the said Solon Humphreys and
Thomas E. Tutt, as such receivers, and each of them and of their
agents, servants, counsellors and employ~s, from in any manner refusing to permit your orator, the St. Louis, Kansas City
and Colorado Railroad Company, under such reasonable regulations and terms as to this court may-seem proper, from using
the said right of way of said Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific
Railway Company, commencing at the north line of said park,
where the railway of said Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railway Company enters said park, thence over said right of -vay
to said Eighteenth Street in said city of St. Louis, by running
its engines and cars over and upon said 'right of way, including
-the tracks of said Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railway
Company betWeen the points at said Union Avenue and said
Eighteenth Street." In their answer the Wabash company
and the receivers admitted the execution of the agreements,
but denied that under, them, or either of them, the Colorado
company had any right to use any portion of the Wabash
tracks or right of way through the park or between the park
and Eighteenth Street. The answer then stated the facts concerning the execution of the general mortgage by the Wabash
company in 1880, to the Central Trust Company and Chenoy ;
averred that the Wabaixh .company had made default in Lhe
payment of interest on its bonds; .that.-by the terms of said
mortgage said t~ustees were-entitled-to possession off $aid,
property; that said rec eivdrs -were in possession of said railroad under said mortgage for the benefit of the holders <of said
mortgage bonds, and that neither said bondholders, trustees or
receivers were privy to or bound by any agreement or contract mad-by the Coufity -comp~any with said Park Commissioners, with respect t- thi use of its. railroad through said
park or elsewhere, by other railroad companies.' The..answer

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

then denied that the intervenors were entitled to the relief
prayed for, and set up the several defences stated and relied
upon by the appellants.
(11) On the issues thus presented the case was referred to
a special master, who reported in favor of the claim made by
the intervenors. Considerable testimony was taken by the
master, but it related almost entirely to matters affecting the
compensation to be paid for the use of the tracks and property
in question, and it is unnecessary to refer to it in detail. The
-following testimony of witnesses, on other points, was given:
S. T. Emerson, chief engineer in charge of the construction of
the Kansas City road from the Union Depot to the north line
of the park, testified as follows: "Q. Now. from that point
JForsyth Junction] to the Union Depot, what is the most, or
the only, practical entrance to the depot from that point?
A. The Wabash railroad." W. Emnerson also testified as follows: "Q. How many tracks, if any, are on the right of way
where the Wabash railway now enters the pa'rk from Eighteenth Street, the thirty feet from Eighteenth Street to the
park and the forty-two feet through the parl.? A. There are
occasional places where there is a side track. There could not
be but one track besides the main track on the thirty f, r."
Andrew McKinley, president of the Board of Forest Park
Commissioners at the time the tripartite agreement was made,
testified as follows: "Q. What was the policy of the board
with reference to railroads passing through the park, at the
time of the execution of the tripartite agreement? A. There
was a great deal of discussion and there was quite a controversy -about where the road should run, under the provision
which I have mentioned," (referring to the act of the legislature, requiring the County road to enter on the eastern side,
through Duncan's subdivision). "Q. Please describe the park
to the master, whether it has been improved, and, if so, how,
in a general way? A. The provisions contained in the proviso that I have just spoken of were intended to protect the
,park against the invasions of all railroads, unquestionably. I
put -it there myself. Q. What effect would the invasion of
the park by railroads have upon the park for the purpose for

JOY v. ST. LOUIS.
Statement of the Case.

which it was established?

A. I think a very damaging effect

upon the point of use and' upon the point of landscaping.
Q. For what purposes was the park intended to be used principally -as a driving park? A. It is shown in the act itself
to be dedicated to 'the people of the city and county of St.
Louis for their enjoyment forever -that is, a pleasure ground
for the people of St. Louis. Q. Are there drives running
through it? A. Yes, Mr; nineteen atd .three-quarters miles
of drives through the park. Q. What effect would the penetration of the park by railroads. at different points have upon
the park as a driving park? A. Up to this time it was apprehended that the road ,would produce some great danger to
persons visiting Forest. Park, aid it was a long time before
that public impression was relieved of the apprehension that
horses would be frightened,, and hence there is a provision
that the road shall be covered overwith a cover or-protected
by trees. During the time I was president of the park it was
not thought to be necessary. Q. How much money has been
expended in beautifying the park? A*. $405,000 during my
administration; sincethat time nothing. It remains as it was
then. Q. What does it represent in money to-(ay ? A. In
cash paid $1,300,000, 'and-, besides that, some contributions
made by the city since. The interest on'that sum, of course,
is to be added. Ti &' bonds are thirty-year bonds." Crossexamination: "Q. -w, the expenditures by the Park Commissioners were in the etection of masonry composing these two
arches and the principal viaduct throuIgh which the people
enter the park. It was in the masonry composing those structures? A. Yes, sir; there would have been no necessity for
them, except for -the railh'oad. Q. They were made necessary
by the railroad? A. Yes, sir. Q. They were for the convenience of porsons passing in and out of the park? A. Yes, sir.
Q. Without the railroad there would have been no necessity
for the culverts;, they -were the entrances for carriage and
footmen? A. Yes, sir." A. A. Talmage, general manager of
the Wabash'company, testified as follows: " Q. Would it be
practicable for any other roa.d subjectto your rules and regnithe north line of d*h- p.ark to the
latiigs to use the track from

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

depot -I mean the main track'? A. It could be done under
the rules and regulations of this company,, but usually it is
done by substituting the motive power and trainmen of our
own road to handle the trains of foreign.roads."
(12) The Wabash company and the receivers excepted to
the reports of the master (of which there were- two) on various
grounds, which need not be given in detail.
(13) The exceptions were argued before the court held by
M r. Justice Brewer, then Circuit Judge, and Judge Treat; and
it held, (29 Fed. Rep. 546,) that, under the contracts, the Colorado comp.ny had the right to use, on such terms and subject to such regulations as to the court seemed equitable, the
Wabash tracks through the park, and from the park down to
the connection with the Union Depot tracks at Eighteenth
Street in the city; and on those points it overruled all the exceptions and confirmed the master's reports. It differed, however, with the master on the question of the compensation to
be paid by the Colorado company, and sustained exception
eleven on that point.
(14) The court then entered a decree, December 31, 1886,
finding that the equities were with the intervenors, and that
they were entitled to the relief prayed for, and fixing the compensation to be paid by the Colorado Company for the use of
the right of way and tracks, side-tracks, switches, turn-outs,
turn-tables and other terminal facilities of the Wabash company, between the north line of Forest Park and Eighteenth
Street in the city of St. Louis, at $2500 per month. The
decree then proceeded as follows: "'And the court doth
further find, adjudge and decree, that the expense per annum
of mairutaining the said right of way and other property pending. such joint use thereof, including therein all taxes upon
said property,'shall be borne: by the said Wabash, St. Louis
and Pacific Railway Company and the said intervenor, the St.
Louis, Kansas City and Colorado Railroad Company, in the
proportion that the number of wheels each of said companies
shall cause to be passed over the main track, or parts thereof,
on said right of way, per irnum, -bears to the total number of
wheels that boihobf said companies shall cause to be passed

jOY v. ST. LOUIS.
Statement of the Case.

over the same during each year pending the said period of
such joint use, and that this expense shall be paid at the expiration of each year. The said right of way and tracks thereon
and other terminal facilities shall be maintained and kept in
good iepair by the Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railway
Company. And the court doth further order, adjudge and.
decree that the running of all trains, engines or cars of said intervenor, the said St. Louis, Kansas City and Colorado Railroad
Company, over said right of way and, tracks, and the use of
said right of way, road, terminal facilities and other property
specified as aforesaid, shall conform to the rules and regulations now in force, and such other reasonable iles and regulations as may hereafter be adopted by the said Wabash; St.
Louis and Pacific Railway Company, or its said receivers, to,
enable said intervenor to fully enjoy the benefits of this decree,
and that the trains of said railroad compan)y, intervenor, shall
be so regulated as that at least eight minutes shall, if deemed.
necessary, intervene between its trains and the trains of said
Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railway Company,. at hny
point between said north line of Forest Park and Eighteenth.
Street, and that the sole control and regulation of the running
of the trains of the said companies shall be, under this decree,.
in the Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railway Company and.
its 'eceivers, and, subject to the further order of this court..
And the court doth further order, adjudge and decree, that in.
all respects, subject to the terms of this decree, the said railroad company, intervenbr, shall enjoy the equal use and bene-fit of said right of way, tracks, switches, side-tracks, turn-outs,.
turn-tables and other terminal facilities with said Wabash, St..
Louis and Pacific Railway Company or its said receivers, and.
the said Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railway Company and.
Solon Humphreys and Thomas E. Tutt, as such receivers,
and said Central Trust Company of New York and James
Cheney, and all persons claiming by, through or under thein
and each of them respectively, and their agents, servants,
counsellors and employ~s be, and the same are hereby, perpetually enjoined and restrained from in any manner refusingto permit the said intervenor, the said St. Louis, Kansas City
VOL. cxxxvn-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

and Colorado Railroad Company, its successors or assigns, and
its or their officbrs, agents or employs, from using with its or
their engines, cars (loaded or empty), the said right of way,
tracks, switches, side-tracks, turn-outs, turn-tables and other
terminal facilities of said Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railway
Company between the north line of said Forest Park and said
Eighteenth Street, on the terms hereinabove set forth in this
decree, in and for the transacting of its or their business, and
in the operation of its or their road. And the said intervenor,
the St. Louis, Kansas City and, Colorado Railroad Company,
by its officers, agents and em ploy s and each of them, is
hereby authorized and permitted, with its right of way, road,
tracks and property, engines and cars, loaded or empty, to
make connection with said Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific
Railway. Company at the north line of said Forest Park, and
to use the said right of way, tracks, switches, side-tracks, turnouts, turn-tables and other terminal facilities of said Wabash,
St. Louis and Pacific Railway Company, or any one claiming
by, through or under it, as to the same, between the north
line of said park and Eighteenth Street, on the terms, in the
manner, and subject to the regulations in this decree set forth
in and for the transaction of the business, and in operation of
the road, of said St.Louis, Kansas City and Colorado Railroad
Company; its successors or assigns, and said Solon HIumphreys
and Thomas E. Tutt, receivers, and, all agents, servants or
persons by them engaged or acting with or for them, said Central Trust Company and James Cheney, said Wabash, St. Louis
and Pacific Railway Company, and all persons claiming by,
through or under said last-named company, are hereby restrained and enjoined from in anywise obstructing, preventing,
interfering with or refusing to comply with, the permit and
privilege hereby ordered, adjudged and decreed." The rules
in force upon the Wabash road, and which were adopted by
the decree, for the government of the parties in the use of
the property, are found, as "Exhibit D," in the printed record.
,(16) On the day the decree was entered, James F. Joy,
Thomas .H.Hubbard, Edgar T. Welles and 0. D. Ashley
filed their petition in the cause, reciting the execution of the

JOY v. ST. LOUIS.
Argument for Appellants.

Wabash mortgage of June 1, 1880, to the Central Trust Company and Cheney, as trustees; stating that there had been a
foreclosure of said mortgage and a sale of the mortgaged
property on the 26th day of April, 1886, at which they had
become the purchasers; that the sale to them had been duly
confirmed by the court and proper deeds had been made conveying to them. the right of way, railroad tracks, terminal
facilities and other property, the use of which the intervenor
was seeking to acquire in this proceeding; that said property
was still in the possession of and being operated by said receivers; that, as such purchasers, they had an interest in the
property and subject matter of the litigation, which they de,sired to protect by an appeal to the Supreme Court of the
United States; and asking that they be made parties defendant, and be allowed an appeal to that court. The court thereupon entered an order, on said day, reciting the petition, and
that it appeared to the court that said Joy, Hubbard, Welles
and Ashley were the owners of the premises and right of way
theretofore owned by the Wabash company, between the north
line of Forest Park and across the park to Eighteenth Street
in the city of St. Louis, over which the intervenor was seeking
to obtain a right to run its engines and cars, and ordering that
said purchasers be made parties defendant in lhe cause. An
appeal to this court from the foregoing decree was afterwards
-duly perfected.
.Xi. Wells H. Blodgett for appellants.
I. The court erred in holding that the covenants on the
part of the County :Railroad company to permit other railroads to use its right of way between the park and the terminus of its line in the city, was binding on the Kansas City
company, and gave respondent the right to use the right of
way and tracks afterwards acquired and constructed by the
Kansas City company between the park and the city.
Our contention is, that the provision at the end of the
twelfth paragraph of the tripartite agreement to the effect
that "if the County company should forfeit its rights, privi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Appellants.

leges and franchises upon and through the park, such forfeiture should not affect the rights of the Kansas City company,
but that the Kansas City company should continue to have,
naintain and enjoy all of said rights, privileges, immunities,
franchises, improvements and property on the terms thereinbefore set forth, continuously and forever," -only relates to
the right of way through the park, and that it has no reference to anything between the park and the city.
It is obvious that the other two parties to the agreement
intended, by the last clause of the twelfth paragraph, to say
to the Kansas City company, as an inducement for it to
proceed with the work of constructing the line through the
park, that in case it did make the expenditures contem,plated, it should not afterwards be excluded from the park in
consequence of any future forfeiture ot failure on the part of
the County company to fulfil its covenants. The idea was
that if the Kansas City company constructed the line through
the park, it was to continue in the park on the same terms
imposed upon the County company. Therefore, no matter
what view the court may take of the decree with respect to
other matters, it was erroneous for' the court to extend the
decree over any portion of the track of the Kansas City company lying outside the park.
II. The court erred in holding and decreeing that the covenant of the County company -to the effect that "it would
permit other railroads to use its right of way between the
park and the terminus of its road in the city" - created an
equitable easement in the road between the park and the city
which affected that property in the hands of Joy and others,
As purchasers from the Kansas City company>
An equitable easement is said to be a right without profit,
which the owner of one tract of land has, to restrict or regulate, for the benefit of his own tract, the uses to be made of
another contiguous tract. There must, of course, be two
estates, a dominant and a servient estate, and in order to
create an equitable easement, or an easement which only a
court of equity can enforce, the burden or duty imposed on
the servient estate, must be for the benefit of the dominant

JOY v. ST. LOUIS.
Argument for Appellants.

estate. The covenants must "touch or concern" or "extend
to the support of the dominant estate." They must be "fo
the benefit of the dominant estate." Whitney v. Union Iail-way Qo., 11 Gray, 359; Ienks v. Williams, 115 Mass. 217;
Jefrie8 v. Jeffies, 117 Mass. 184; Norcross v. Jame, 140
Mass. 188.
These cases hold that when a party conveys a portion of
his lands, and the grantor accepts a covenant back from his
grantee, to the effect that neither h; nor his assigns will use
the land granted for a purpose prejudicial to the property
retained, such covenants, although they cannot be strictly said
to ran with the land, nevertheless create in the grantor and
his assigns equitable easements in the lands conveyed for the
benefit of the lands not conveyed, and courts of equity have,
therefore, enjoined the covenantor from violating the covenant
to the prejudice of the covenantee and his assigns.
In the foregoing cases, as well as in all. that are cited and
relied upon by the appellees, it will be found upon examination that the covenants which were enforced were contained
in deeds of grant, and that they concerned the use of property
granted, in its relation to the property retained. The personal
covenants of the grantees were, in those cases, regarded as
creating easements in the lands granted which would be enforced in equity, although at lair they were not covenants
which run with the land.
Now, we concede that there are circumstances under which
the covenant in question might be enforced if the bill had been
filed against the County company (covenantor) and had only
related to the right of way in the park. If the bill had only
related to the right of way in the park, and it could be truthfully said that the County company acquired its right of way
through the.park under a grb.nt from the Park Commissioners,
and the court could furthermore see that to enforce the covenant would be beneficial to the park, then we think the case
would come under the rule announced in the cases above cited.
But when it comes to the right of way outside the park our
contention is, that the doctrine of equitable easement has no
application, and that as to the property outside the park'tho

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Appellants.

covenant of the County company, withs respect to its use by
other companies,\ was merely personal. Des Moines & Fo't
.DodgeRailroad v. Wabash, St. Louis &c. Railway, 135 U. S.
576,.; NorCross v. James, 140 Mass. 188; -Yeppell v. Bailey, 2
Myl. & K. 517.
If covenants do not run with land, it is only when they are
restrictive and relate to the lands granted that they will be
enforced evenin equity against assignees with notice. It is
said in many cases, and the rule seems now firmly established,
that courts of equity will not enforce against the grantee of
the covenantor, whb has himself entered into no covenant, any
covenant of his grantor, which does not run with the land
and which requires the expenditure of money. Ilaywood v.
Brunswik Building Society, 8 Q. B. D. 403; London &
&uthwezern Railway v. Gomm, 20 Ch.D. 562. Therefore, in
so far as the decree gives to the Colorado company the use of
the right of way outside the park, it should be reversed.
III.. The court erred in holding and decreeing that a covenant on the part of the County company" to permit other
railroads to use its right of way under such reasonable regulations and upon such terms and for such fair and equitable com.ensation to be paid therefor as might be agreed upon by
:such companies" constituted an agreement sufficiently definite
to be specificaxkly enforced in a court of equity.
A party who merely agrees to permit another at some future
time to enter upon and use a given piece of property on such
terms and for such compensation, as may, when the time arrves, be agreed upon, does not part with any interest in his
esfate or impair his dominion over it. The mere right in one
party to use the property of another on such terms as may be
agreed upon, gives the covenantee no interest in the property.
One gets nothing by such a contract. He had the same privilege before the contract was made.
In this case, the regulations, compensation and terms on
which the property was to be used, were all left by the contract to the future determination of the parties, and the question is, as to whether a court of equity ought to put itself in
the place of -the parties and supply not merely some subordi.

JOY v. ST. LOUIS.
Argument for Appellants.

nate missing term, but make, in fact, the whole agreement.
Or in other words, can a court of equity, under the guise of
enforcing a contract, make the contract which it enforces, and
in so doing, fix the terms on which one party may use the
property of another, when the very contract in question leaves
the matter of fixing the terms to the parties themselves? Can
a court of equity do that? See Colson v. Thoinpson, 2 Wheat.
336; Hennessy v. Woolworth, 128 U. S. 438; .Meibbin v.
Brown, 1 McCarter (14 N. J. Eq.).13; Nichols v. Williams,
7 C. E. Green (22 N. J. Eq.) 63; Whitlock v. Duffield, 1 Hoff.
Ch. 110; Hfuff v. Shepard, 58 Missouri, 249; -Morgan v. .Milman, 3 De G. M. &. G. 24; Cooth v. Jackson, 6 Ves. 12, 33;
Afilnes v. Gern, 14. Yes. 400; Eemble v. Eean, 6 Sir. 333;
Taylor v. Portington, 7 De G. M. & G. 328; Wilson v. NYorthampton & Banbury Junction Railway, L. R. 9 Oh. 279; Brace
v. Wehnert, 25 Beav. 348; Wilks v. Davis, 3 Meriv. 507;
Blundell v. Brettargh, 17 Yes. 231; South Wales Railwdy
v. Wythes, 5 De G. M. & G. 880.
The fact must be kept in mind that Joy and his associates
took the property as purchasers; that they have made no
covenants; that they are assignees of the Kansas City company, and that courts of equity require contracts (where they
are such as can be enforced against assignees) to be-much
more definite and certain in their terms when their enforcement is sought against assignees, than when the proceedings
are against original parties. Fendall v. Almy, 2 Sumner
278; Montgomery v. Norris, 1 How. (Miss.) 499.
IV. The court erred in entering a decree compelling the
specific performance, by the Wabash company, of a continuous
duty requiring the exercise of skill and personal judgment, as
well as the constant expenditure of money, and requiring the
court to retain perpetual control over the cause in order to
superintend the execution of the decree, and make, from time
to time, such changes in the rules and regulations addpted as
the circumstances of the parties and the shifting contingencies
of business and trade should render necessary.
The question of whether a court of equity will specifically
enforce a contract which requires the performance of continu-

OCTOBER TERM 1890.
Arg-nent for Appellants.

,ous duties, and the constant supervision, by the court, of a
business involving skill, personal labor, cultivated judgment
and the constant expenditure of money, and where, if performance is decreed, the case must remain indefinitely in court, has
been so recently and so fully considered here, that to determine this case it seems only necessary to examine the decree
and see whether it falls within the rule announced.
Under this decree the case must remain forever in court,
and the court to the end of time may be called upon to determine the innumerable controversies that may arise between
the parties under its provisions. Under it, constant payments
.and settlements are to be made, some monthly, others annually, and hence it is a constant and perpetual duty of the
.court to enforce those provisions. Under the decree it is made
the duty of the Wabash company to perpetually maintain the
tracks and all said terminal facilities in good repair, and the
question of what is good repair is an issue on which the parties are entitled -to be heard, and may call for as many separate trials as there are complaints.
And furthermore, to keep the property in good repair, calls
for the constant expenditure of money and the exercise of
judgment and professional skill, and to perform that duty the
court must, if required, compel the Wabash company, or its
assigns, to raise money and afterwards expend it with the judganent and skill necessary to keep the tracks, turn-tables and
other terminals'in good repair. A failure to comply with any
one of the ninety-eight rules, or a dispute as to their meaning,
furnishes a controversy that can' only be determined by the
,court that entered the decree. Not only that, but new rules
may be made and the question of whether they are reasonable,
is reserved to the court, and, on application of the parties,
imust be determined by it. In short, the whole future inan;agement of the property is, by the decree, taken out of the
hands of its owners and, for all time, subjected to the orders
' and control of the court.
In' "Texa" and Paciflc Railway Co. v. _lfarshall, 136 U. S.
303, it was -recently held that it was error for a court of equity
to 'ener E; decree which required it to be making constant

JOY v. ST. LOUIS.
Argument for Appellants.

inquiries as to whether its provisions were being obeyed perfectly and in good faith, or in an evasive manner, and which
rendered the court liable to be perpetually called upon to
make the same inquiries in the future and thus assume endless
duties which are inappropriate to the functions of a court of
equity. And it was said that the task of supervising and
enforcing a contract for the building of a house or a railroad,
was outside the proper functions of a court of equity and not
within the powers of a specific performance. See also -Mfarble
Company v. Ripley, 10 Wall. 339; Port Clinton Railroad v.
Clereland 6 Toledo Railroad, 13 Ohio St. 544; South Males
Railway Co. v. Wythes, 5 De G. M. & G. 880 ; Powel .Du yn
S8team Coal Co. v. Tof Vale Railway Co., L. R. 9 Ch. 331;
Ross v. Union Pacf#c Railway, 1 Woolworth, 26; City of St.
Thomas v. Credit Valley Railway, 7 Ontario, 332; Blanchard
v. -Detroit&c. Railroad,31 Michigan, 43; Pollardv. Clayton.,
1 Kay & Johns. 462; Booth v. Pollard, 4 Younge & Coll.
Ex. 61.
V. The court erred in entering a decree broader than the
contract.
The contract only related to right of way; the prayer of
the petition was for the use of right of way and tracks, and
the decree not only gives them the use of the right of way
and tracks, but it subjects to the use of respondent the switches,
side-tracks, turn-outs, turn-tables and other terminal facilities,
and even goes so far as to require the Wabash company to
keep those additional properties in repair for respondent's use.
Thererore, no matter what view may be taken of the case in
other respects, the decree was erroneous in two particular :
First, because it is broader than the covenant; and seconI,
because it is broader than the prayer of the bill. Both thesb
objections are elementary.
VI. The court erred in holding that mutuality of equitable
remedy existed between the parties to this suit.
The question of whether there is mutuality of equitable
remedy between appellants and the Colorado company, is a
matter that can only be determined by reference to the nature
of the contract, the words employed and the relation of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Appellants.

parties to each other. Of course these parties have no contract relations. The Colorado company has no contract relations with any one, and it is not pretended that Joy and his
associates have entered into any covenants. The agreement
on the part of the County company was, that it would, at
some future time, make contracts permitting other railroads to
use its right of way on such terms as might be agreed upon
between it and the companies desiring to enter upon the'use
of its right of way.
The contract that was made between the Park Commissioners and the railroad companies, and under which certain
wyork was done in the park, was one thing, and the contract
to be made between the company owning the railroad and
the company desiring to use it, was quite another.
By its decree, the court has clearly attempted to enforce
the contract to be made, or in other words, it has put into its
decree such provisions as, in its opinion, the parties ought to
have put into an agreement of their own making.
VII. The court erred in holding that the contract of the
County company to permit other railroads to use its right of
way, was binding on Joy and his associates, they being purchasers in good faith and without notice, under the mortgage
made by the Wabash company in 1880.
If the tripartite agreement was never acknowledged as a
deed, then the filing of it in the office of the Recorder, imported no notice to Joy and his associates. That point was
expressly ruled in Bishop v. Schneider, 46 Missouri, 472. But
to avoid the effect of the rule laid down in that case, the
court found that the recitation in the deed of August 11th,
1875, from the County company to the Kansas City company (which deed was duly recorded) to the effect "that the
County'company executea that deed in pursuance of the
terms of a certain contract made between the same parties on
the 11th day of August, 1875, and in full satisfaction of so
much of said contract as related to the conveyance of certain
pieces of land and rights of way to said party of the second
part," was sufficient to put subsequent purchasers on inquiry
as to the contents of the previous unrecorded contract between

JOY v. ST. LOUIS.
Argument for Appellants.

the two companies; and that, having found and examined
the contract between the two companies, a purchaser would
discover in it a reference to the unacknowledged and improperly recorded tripartite agreement, and that upon reading the
tripartite agreement he would find the clause on which the
Colorado company bases its claim.
Now, we contend that the above finding was erroneous, and
we say: (1) that a statement in a general warranty deed to
the effect, '-that it is made in pursuance of a previous personal
contract between the parties and in full satisfaction of so
much thereof as relates to the conveyance of the property,"
is not, and in reason cannot be, sufficient to put a subsequent
grantee on inquiry for prior incumbrances; and (2) that when
the document referred to is not a deed, but a mere collateral
persoml agreement, a reference to it in a deed, in which the
grantor convenants that he is seized of an indefeasible estate
in fee simple, does not even put a subsequent purchaser on
inquiry
But, again, the court found, that the further statement in
the deed from the County company to the Kansas City company, to the effect, "that the County company conveyed said
rights of way, subject to the terms and conditions upon which
the same were granted to the County company," 'as, sufficient
to put subsequent purchasers on inquiry as to such conditions.
We grant that proposition; but let us inquire what property
the Cdunty company was conveying to the Kansas City company "subject to the terms and conditions upon which it had
been conveyed to the County company."
As to the lots outside the park, there is nothing in all the
record tending to show on what conditions one foot of that
ground had been conveyed to the County company. And as
to the right of way through the park, the County company
held that property under its deed from Griswold, as well as
under the third section of the Park Act, and there is nothing
in either the deed or act, showing, or tending to show, that
the County company held its right of way through the park
subject to any conditions whatever. The County company
claimed nothing in the park through any grant from the Park

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1890.
Counsel for Appellees.

Commissioners, and the Park Commissioners never attempted
to grant any.thing to that company. The title to the lands in
the park was vested in the people of the county, and the Legislature had absolute control over it for all purposes. State v.
St. Louis County Court, 34 Missouri, 546; Barnes v. Dist.
of Columbia, 91 U. S. 540. As to the property outside the
park -that which was acquired from other parties by deed or
was certainly nothing in the deed
by condemnation -there
from the County company to put Joy and his associates on
inquiry concerning incumbrances on those portions of the line.
The deed of the County company forms no link in the chain
of title through which Joy and his associates held by far the
major portion of the line between the park and the city, and
we understand that purchasers are only bound to take notice
of recitals contained in the deeds which form links in their
chain of title. They are not bound to inquire into collateral
contracts and circumstances. Acer v. Tetcott, 46 N. Y. 384;
Bur h v. Carter, 44 Alabama, 115 ; Attorney Generalv. Backhouse, 17 Ves. 282; Mueller v. Engeln, 12 Bush, 441; PenPose v. Griffith, 4 Binney, 231.
Certainly, the recitals in the contracts or even in the deed
from the County company to the Kansas City company, were
no sort of notice to purchasers of any incumbrances upon, or
easements in, all that portion of the right of way outside the
park not conveyed by the County company to the Kansas City
company. As to the property not purchased from the County
company, the recitals in its deed to the Kansas City cornpany lay outside the chain through which Joy and his associates derive title to all that portion of the property which never
belonged to the County company. Therefore, as to all the
property: not purchased from the County company, the record
shows no fact sufficient to put a purchaser on inquiry for
incumbrances of any sort. This point was expressly ruled in
Tydings v. Pitcher,82 Missouri, 379.
-Yr.John C. Orrick for appellees. Mr. Leverett Bell and
Mr. George R?. Peck were with him on the brief.

JOY v. ST. LOUIS.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE BLATOHFORD, after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.

It is contended by the appellants that the Circuit Court
erred (1) in holding that the covenant on the part of the
County company, to permit other railroads to use its right of
way between the park and the terminus of its line in the city,
was binding on the Kansas City company, and gave to the Colorado company the right to use the right of way and the tracks
afterwards acquired and constructed by the Kansas City company between the park and the city; (2) in decreeing that the
covenant of the County company, to permit other railroads to
use its right of way between the park and the terminus of its
road in the city, created an equitable easement in the road between the park and the city, which affected such property in
the hands of Joy and others, as purchasers; (8) in decreeing
that such covenant on the part of the County company was an
agreement sufficiently definite in terms to be specifically enforced by a court of equity; (4) in decreeing the specific performance by the Wabash company of a continuous duty, requiring
the exercise of skill and personal judgment, as welflas the expenditure of money, and requiring the court to retain perpetual
control over the cause, in order to superintend the execution of
the decree and make from time to time such changes in the
rules and regulations adopted by the Wabash company as the
circun~stances of the parties and the shifting contingencies of
business and trade should render necessary; (5) in making a
decree-broader than the contract, in that the County company
only agreed, at -most,to permit other companies to use its rigllt
of way,.vhile the decree gives the right to use the right of ways,
and tracks, side-tracks, switches, turn~outs,.turn-tables and othet
terminal facilities of the Wabash company; (6) in holding that.
there was mutuality of equitable remedy between the 'parties
to the suit; and (7) in holding that the contraot of the County
company was binding on Joy and others, as purchasers in
good faith and without notice, under the mortgage made by
the Wabash company in 1880.
But we are of opinion that, under the two agreements of

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

August 11, 1875, and the deed of that date from the County
company to the Kansas City company, the Wabash company,
as successor of the latter company, is bound to permit the
Colorado, conr-any to use the right of way from the north
line of Forest Park, through the park, to the terminus of the
Wabash company's road on Eighteenth Street, for a fair and
equitable compensation.
Forest Park, containing 1379 acres of land, had been established as a park for the benefit of the people, and was intended
principally as a driving park. The Board of Forest Park
Commissioners had, under the act of March 25, 1874, the
power to lay off, improve, adorn, govern, manage and control
the use of the park and the avenues surrounding it. Before
the execution of the tripartite agreement, neither the County
company nor the Kansas City company had any railroad to
the Union Depot. The County company had located its line
east and west of the park, and had purchased the right of way
at different points along its line from the Union Depot to the
park; but it had built no railroad, and the location of its right
of way through the park was undetermined at the time. The
Kansas City company had its depot for freight and passengers
in the northern part of the city, some distance from the Union
Depot. As the Union Depot was at that time the only genernd
passenger depot in the city, and was reached by most of the
railroads which entered the city, the Kansas City company
determined to build a branch of its road from Ferguson, about
nine or ten miles from the city, to the Union Depot, and thus
avail itself of better facilities for doing a passenger business,
and 'to cross the bridge over the Mississippi River with its
trains. It is stated in the agreement of August 11, 1875,
between the County company and the Kansas City company,
that the latter required the right of way in order to reach the
Union Depot. Its branch line from Ferguson was located
through the park. In its efforts to obtain the right of way
through the park it encountered the County company. The
Board of Park Commissioners was conferred with by the two
companies, in regard to securing a definite right of way for
both of them through the park. This is shown by the testi-

JOY v. ST. LOUIS.
Opinion of the Court.

mony of Mr. McKinley, before referred to. The Park Comnissioners wore willing, at that time, to grant the use of one
right of way through the park, on a certain line, with conditions as to the use of such right of way by other railroads, so
as to protect the park, as far as possible, from invasion by
other railroads, on sephrate and independent rights of way.
In order to accomplish this result, the board expended $40,000
in aid of the construction of the railroad through the park.
In view of the deep cut on the.line of the Wabash road just
east of the park, it would be difficult for any other railroad to
enter the park, from the east, on an in'dependent right of way,
and at the same time use the right of way of the Kansas City
company through the park. Hence, arose the provision that
this righl to use the right of way by other railroads should
apply not only to the "right of way through the park," but
also to the right of way "up to the terminus of its road in the
city of St. Louis," that is, the right of way from the park to
.the Union Depot.
It was under these circumstances that the tripartite agreement came into existence; and the terms of paragraph 9 of it
must be construed. That paragraph is here repeated : "N inth.
Said party of the second part shall permit, under such reasonable regulations and terms as may be agreed upon, other railroads to use its right of way through the park and up to the
terminus of its road in the city of St. Louis, upon such terms
and Tor such fair and equitable compensation to be paid to it
therefor as may be agreed upon by such companies." It is to
be construed in connection with paragraph 12 of the same
agreement.
In regard to these two paragraphs, the opinion of the Circuit
Court says: "It will be observed that by the ninth paragraph
the County road agreed to permit the use of its right of way
by other railroads. Whether a like obligation was assumed
by the Kansas road depends upon the last sentence in the
twelfth paragraph, which purports to grant to the Kansas
road the right to occupy and enjoy the right of way through
the park jointly with the County road 'on the terms of the
said contract between them, and under the same terms and

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

conditions as are hereby and hereinbefore imposed upon said
party of the second part, and which are hereby assumed by
said party of the third part as to improvements, except as to
ouilding a depot and switch in said park, which the party of
the second part is to do itself.' It must be conceded that the
meaning of this language is not perfectly clear. It is claimed
by the defendants that the words ' as to improvements, except
as to building, etc.,' qualify not only thie immediately preceding clause, commencing 'and which are hereby assumed,' but
also the one prior, commencing ' and under the same terms
and conditions,' and therefore that the terms and conditions as
to improvements are those alone cast upon the Kansas road.
This would make the two clauses but a single compound one,
qualified by the following relative clause ' as to improvements,'
etc. As against this it must be observed that, grammatically,
a relative clause generally qualifies its immediate antecedent,
and therefore, in this case, would refer simply to that clause
which' provides for the assumption by the Kansas road. This
natural grammatical construction is strengthened by the punctuation - a comma after the words 'party of the second part'
and none after the words 'party of the third part,' which
seems to separate the entire first clause from the second and
its qualifying terms. I know that the matter of punctuation
is never relied upon to defeat the obvious intent; but, when
the meaning is doubtful, the punctuation is certainly a matter
tending to throw light upon it. Further, there are not simply
two, but really three, antecedent clauses, the first one being
'the terms of the said contract between them,' that is, the two
railroad. companies. Very clearly this qualifying clause does
not refer to that, and therefore it should not be held to qualify
the seco nd, unless the obvious intent compels such construction. It is objected that the clause commencing 'and which
are hereby assumed' is, under this construction, superfluous.
I think not. These improvements called for the expenditure
of money, and the idea seemed to be that the Kansas road
should not only hold its rights upon certain conditions but,
that, as to those involving expenditure of money, it should expressly assume the performance. There is a manifest differ-

JOY v. ST. LOUIS.
Opinion of the Court.

once between a conveyance subject to. a mortgage and a
conveyance in which the grantee assumes the payment of the
mortgage. This distinction evidently dictated the form of
expression used."
It appears, from paragraph 12, that the Kansas City company had in view the failure of the County company to comply
w-ith the provisions of paragraphs 1 to 8 inclusive of the tripartite agreement relating to the construction of the road,
among which was the. provision which required the completion
of the road within one year, under the penalty of the forfeiture
of all rights under the agreement. The Kansas City company
guarded against such contingency by the provision, in paragraph 12, that, in case the County company, its successors or
assigns, should forfeit its rights, privileges and franchises in,
upon and through the park, or from any cause should cease
to have,* maintain or enjoy the same, then the Kansas City
company should not also be excluded from the park, but, with
its successors and assigns, should continue to have, maintain
and enjoy all of said rights, privileges, immunities, franchises,
improvements and property, on the terms thereinbefore set
forth, continuously and forever. Thereby, in 'case of the forfeiture of its rights by the County company, the Kansas City
company became possessed of the entire right of way, subject
to the terms of the agreement of August 11, 1875, between the
two companies, and to those of the tripartite agreement of the
same date; and that which, prior to the forfeiture, was held
and, enjoyed jointlr by the two companies, became the sole
property of the Kansas City company, its successors and
assigns, on. the terms of the said contract between the two
companies, and under the same terms nd conditions which
were imposed upon the Kansas City company. Among the
conditions so imposed were those of paragraph 9 of the tripartite agreement. Further, those terms as to improvements,
except as to building a depot and switch in the park, were
assumed by the Kansas City company. The depot and switch
were to be built by the County company. The word " improvements" related to the building of the road and the erection
of what was to be erected, except the depot and switch. The
VOL. CXXXVI1-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

reason why the Kansas City company did not assume the
building of the depot and switch appears from a clause in
the agreement of August 11, 1875, between the two companies,
to the effect that the County company should have and maintain the passenger depot in the park, so far as the two companies were concerned, and that the Kansas City company
should not have the power of stopping any of its trains in the
park. As, however, the latter company would use the right
of way through the park, and what were called the 11improvements," except the depot and switch, the Park Commissioners
required it to assume the obligations of the County company
in that regard.
This was the view of the contract taken by the Circuit
Court, and we think it was-correct. It is evidently in accordance with the intention of the parties to the tripartite agreement. The object of the Park Commissioners was to protect
the park from the invasion of more than one railroad track;
and, to accomplish that result, it was necessary to give to
other railroad companies the right to use the one right of way,
and to impose on the Kansas-City company, as well as the
County company, the obligation to permit other companies
to use such right'of way. Hayes v. 7Iichigan Central Railroad,111 U. S. 228.
We are also of opinion that the covenants in paragraph 9
of the tripartite agreement, as to the use of the right of way
by other railroad companies, are binding upon subsequent purchasers, with notice, from the Kansas City company. Tulk v.
-Moxhay, 2 Phillips, 774; Luker v. .Deani&, 7 Ch. D. 227;
Bronson v. Cofln, 108 Mass. 175 ; Whitne.y v. Uinion Railway
Co., 11 Gray, 359, 364; Parker v. Nightingale, 6 Allen, 341,
344; Vandoren v. Robinson, 16 N. -J-. Eq. 256; Kirkpatrick
v. Peshine, 24 N. J. Eq. 206; Western v. fMacdermott, L. R.
2 Ch. 72; Watertown v. White, 4 Paige, 510; Randall v.
latham, 36 Connecticut, 48, 53; City of Cincinnati v. Lessee8
qf 'White, 6 Pet. 431; Brew v. ran Deman, 6 Heiskell, 433;
ilfinftld v. Henning, 21 N. J. Eq. 188; lFerplanck v. Wright,
23 Wend. 506; Stockett v. floward, 34',Maryland, 121; Atlanfic Dock Co. v. 1eavitt, 54 N. Y.35.

JOY

. ST. LOUIS.

Opinion of the Court.

In the -present case, the tripartite agreement is a link in
the chain of title of the mortgagees and of the purchasing committee. The right of way through the park, granted by Griswold to the County company, November 3, 1871, was lost by
non-user. The right of way granted by the Park Commissioners to the County company under the first park act, of March
25, 1872, failed because that act was declared unconstitutional,
in Chouteau v. Lejfingwell, 54 Missouri, 458. The third line,
that established by the tripartite agreement, was not identical
with either of the two prior lines. The Park Commissioners,
therefore, granted to the two companies, under the tripartite
agreement, all the right of way which they acquired in the
park. The right of the mortgagees and of the purchasing
committee to use such right of way is based solely upon that
agreement; and, holding under it, they must hold subject to
its terms and conditions, irrespectively of the question of notice. Wkitney v. Union Railway, 11 Gray, 359; Vandoren
v. Robinson, 16 N'. T. Eq. 256; Tdl v. 2foxhay, 2 Phillips,
774; Luker v. .Dennis, 7 Ch. D. 227; Western v. 3facdermott,
L. R. 2 Ch. 72. Therefore, the Wabash company, the mortgagees, and the purchasing committee must be held to have had
notice of the covenants and conditions of the tripartite agreement prior to the execution of the mortgage, and are bound
by them, whether the covenants be or be not strictly such as
run with the land.
Nor is the failure to acknowledge the tripartite agreement
as a deed of any iffportance. There was sufficient to put the
purchasers on inquiry, and to charge them with notice of all
the facts which such an inquiry would have made known.
The Wabash company came into existence in August, 1879,
through the consolidation of the Kansas City company witis
the Wabash Railway company. This consolidation took
place under statutes by virtue of which the consolidated company took all the property, rights and franchises and assumed
all the liabilities of the Kansas City company. The Wabash
company, therefore, was not strictly a purchaser from the
Kansas City company. The consolidation was merely a
change of name. If the Kansas City company was bound by

OCTOBER rERIM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the tripartite agreement to granT the use of the right of way,
to other railroads, on certain terms, the Wabash company, as
consolidated, was equally bound to do so. The mortgage was
executed in 1880, and the committee purchased in 1886. The
tripartite agreement was recorded in the recorder's office of
the city of St. Louis,. September 5, 1879, prior to the execution
of the mortgage and prior to the purchase under it made by
the committee. Bishop v. Schneider, 46 Missouri, 472; Stevens v. -Hampton,46 fissouri, 404; Dig'man v. .JfECollum, 4T
Missouri, 425.
The tripartite agreement, and that between the County
company and the Kansas City company,'and the deed from
the County company to the Kansas City company, all of them
bear date August 11, 1875. The deed was duly acknowledged,
and was recorded August 13, 1875. It is a link in the chain
of title of the mortgagees and the purchasing -committee. It
recites that it is made.in pursuance of the terms of a -certain
contract made and executed between the County company and
the Kansas City company, and dated August 11, 1875, and is
in full satisfaction of so much of such contract as relates to
the conveyance of certain pieces of land and right of way to
the Kansas City company. It also contains the following provision: "And also the said party of the first part hath conveyed, assigned and transferred, and by these presents doth
cbnvey, assign and transfer, unto the said party of the
second part, and to its successors and assigns, an undivided
one-half of all the right, title or interest of the party of the
first part of, in or to the right of way, and of, in or to any
and all other rights, privileges and franchises, powers and
immunities owned by, or vested in or enjoyed by, or that
may hereafter be acquired and owned by, vested in or enjoyed
by, the party of the first part, in, through or upon Forest
Park, by any means or from any qource whatever; all of
which conveyances of the said rights of way in this deed mentioned are made subject to the terms and' conditions upon
which the same were granted to the party- of the first part,
together with all and singular the tenements, hereditaments
and appurtenances thereunto belonging or in anywise- apper-

JOY v. ST. LOUIS.
Opinion of the Court.

taining." Thus this deed refers to the contract of August 11,
1875, between the County company and the Kansas City company, and to the terms thereof; and the Kansas City company
took its title subject to the terms and conditions imposed upon
the County company by the tripartite agreement. This reference to the terms and conditions on which the right of way
mentioned in the deed was granted to the Kansas City company put all the parties to the deed, and their assigns, on
inquiry as to the terms of the contract by which such rights
of way were granted, and led up to the provision in the agreement of August 11, 1875, between the two companies, which
referred to the tripartite agreement in the following language:
"And whereas, under this agreement and a certain agreement
between the parties hereto and the Commissioners of Forest
Park of even date herewith, the party of the second part is
about to, and hereby, in consideration of the covenants and
agreements of the party of the first part, hereinafter particularly set forth, and of the covenants and agreements of
said Commissioners of Forest Park in said agreement with
them contained, does covenant and agree to construct and
maintain a railroad bed and road in, upon and through said
Forest Park and the tunnel and cut hereinbefore specified,
according to certain plans and specifications agreed upon, and
according to the terms and conditions of said agreement with
said commissioners, for the joint use of both the parties (of
the first part and of the second part) hereto, their several successors-and assigns:'" Being thus chargeable with notice of
the contents, of the contract of August 11, 1875, between the
Countj comhp-ny and the Kansas City company, the mortgagees and the purchasing committee were chargeable also with
notice of the tripartite agreement, to which i1. referred; and
they purchased subject to the terms on which the right of way
was granted. Kirkpatrek v. Peshine, 24 N. J. Eq. 206;
Atlantic Dock Co. v. leavitt, 54 N. Y. 35; Bishop v. Schneider, 46 Missouri, 4'2; Stevens v. Hampton, 46 Missouri, 404;
.
paunin v. Emmons, .7 Missouri, 304; 3"T Camant v. Patterson, 39 Missouri, 100, 110; YMense v. XcLean, 13 Missouri,
298; .Meier v. Blume, O Missouri, 179, 184.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The covenant in paragraph 9 of the tripartite agreement
.created an easement in the property of the County company
and the Kansas City company for the benefit of the public,
which might be availed of, with the consent of the public
authorities, properly expressed, by other railroad companies
which might wish to use not only the right of way through
the park but also that between the park and the Union Depot.
Whitney v. Union Railway, 11 Gray, 359, 364; Parker v.
Nfightingale, 6 Allen, 341, 344; Wilkinson v. Clements, L. R.
8 Oh. 96; Perkins v. Hadsell, 50 Illinois, 216; Stansbury v.
1?ringer,11 Gill & J. 149; Cooper v. Pena,21 California, 403;
Union Paciic Railway v. XoAkpine, 129 U7. S. 305, 314;
-.M7 urray v. -Moran,134: U. S. 150.
The two agreements of August 11, 1875, and the deed of that
date from the County company to the Kansas City company constituted a single transaction, relating to the same subject matter,
and should be construed together in such a way as to carry into
effect the intention of the parties, in view of their situation at
the time and of the subject matter of the instruments. Contracts of such a character- are to be construed liberally in favor
of the public when the subject matter concerns the interests of
the public. Parkerv. Great Western Railway,7 Scott N. IR.835,
870; Colman v. .Eastern Counties Railway, 10 Beav. 1, 14;
Canal Co. v. Wheeley, 2 B. & Ad.792; Blakemore v. Canal
Co., 1 fyL. & K. 154, 165; Lee v. -Hilner,2 Younge & Coll.
Ex. 611, 618; Ware v. Canal Co., 28 L. J. Ch. N. S. pt. 1,
153, 157; Gray v. Railway Co., 4 Railway Cases, 240.
The Kansas City company, under the agreements, completed
its road through the park to the Union Depot in 1876. The
agreement between the County company and the Kansas City
company provided that the County company should pay to
the Kansas City company one-half *ofthe cost of the construction and maintenance of the road-bell through the park and
the tunnel and the cut, within two years from August' 11,
1875, and that, if the County company should fail or refuse to
make payment for sixty days after demand, after it should
become due, all the rights, privileges, franchises, powers, immunities, improvements and property of the County company,

JOY v. ST. LOUIS.
Opinion of the Court.

in, through or upon Forest Park, and .in, into, through, over
or upon the tunnel and cut, should become, by virtue of. such
failure and refusal, without further process or proceedings,
forfeited to the Kansas City company, its successors and
assigns; that, in case of such forfeiture, no further payments
should be made by the County company, but the Kansas City
company might enter upon the sole and absolute possession
and enjoyment of all such rights, privileges, franchises, powers,
immunities, improvements and property, to the exclusion of
the County company; and that the latter company should, in
such case, convey by deed to the Kansas City company, its
successors and assigns, all of such rights, privileges, franchises,
powers, immunities, improvements and property. The two
years expired in 1877. The County company, having paid
nothing, forfeited to the Kansas City company all its interest in
the right of way through the park and through the tunnel and
the cut east of the park.
By the two agreements and the deed, the Kansas City company obtained from the County company an undivided onehalf of the right of way through the park, and the other rights
of way, then owned by the County company, between the
park and the Union Depot, and, by virtue of the two agreements and the .forfeiture, without further action by either the
County company or the Park Commissioners, the Kansas City
company became vested with the title to the whole right of
way through the park, the tunnel and the cut, and became
substituted for the County company under the agreements.
All the obligations and conditions imposed upon the County
company became those of the Kansas City company, except as
to building the depot and the switch in the park; and the
latter company became subject to the conditions which were
imposed on -the County company by the tripartite agreement.
That agreement created the easement before referred to, which
covered the tracks through the park and the tracks east of the
park to the Union, Depot. Whitney v., Union Railway Co.,
11 Gray, 359, 364; Parkerv. lYightingale, 6 Allen. 341, 344.
The permission to other railroad companies to use such
tracks was a concession to the Park Commissioners, and was

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

one of the conditions of the grant of the right of way through
the park to the County company; and the Kansas City company obtained the title to, and the exclusive possession of,
such right of way, under the agreement providing for such
permission. It would be inequitable to permit the Kansas
City company, or its successor, to continue to use the right of
way through the park and at the same time to deprive the
Park Commissioners, or their successor, the city of St. Louis,
as trustees of the public, of the benefit of the use by other railroad companies of the right of way between the park and the
Union Depot. The park was dedicated to the use of the people of the city and county of St. Louis, and it was the duty of
their trustees to preserve that use to them, for park purposes.
In the view of those trustees, it was necessary, for the protection of the park, that other railroad companies should be permitted to use not only the right of way through the park but
also that between the park and the.Union Depot. In order to
obtain the right of way through the park, the Kansas City
company subjected itself to the condition imposed by paragraph 9 of the tripartite agreement, and it is right that that
company and its successor should be held to a strict compliance with its covenant. The appellants, although enjoying
the benefit of the $40,000 expended by the Park Commissioners
and of the right of way through the park, deny their liability
under the agreement, without offering to return to the grantors the property obtained by virtue of the agreement. Under
such circumstances, these parties cannot be heard to allege
that the agreement was against the policy of the law. Wiggins Ferry Co. v. Chicago & Alton Railroad,73 Missouri, 413.
In respect to the point that paragraph 9 of the tripartite
agreement covers the use by other railroad companies, not
only of the right of way through the park, but also of the
right of way to the terminus of the County company's-road
in the city of St. Louis, the Circuit Court very rightly said,
in its opinion:. "It is argued with great force, however, by
counsel for the respondents, that even if the purchasers were
charged with notice of these terms and conditions as attaching
to the lands described in the deed, inasmuch as the Kansas

JOY 9. ST. LOUIS.
Opinion of the Court.

road obtained a large portion of its right of way between
Forest Park and the Union Depot from other sources, it took
these latter portions. free from any burden cast upon the lands
specifically conveyed by the County road. 'Can it be,' he
says, 'that a condition in a deed of a few feet of the right of
way, in a long line of three hundred miles, casts a burden on
the entire line, to be assumed by every succeeding purchaser?'
I might answer this extreme case by a reverse question: Can
it be possible that a condition attached to substantially the
entire right of way of this long line of road can be defeated
by the fact that some few feet have been acquired by a deed
free from such condition? But these extreme cases do not
constitute the practical matter before us. Here the County
road had an incomplete right of way through the park and
to the Union Depot. A share of this incomplete right of.
Vay it conveyed to the Kansas toad subject to certain conditions. Can it be that the completion by the Kansas road of
this right of way, by the purchase of intervening and isolated
tracts, destroys the entire value of the conditions? Looking
at this matter in a practical way, and from a reasonable
standpoint, I think the answer to this question must. be in the
negative."
In Bronon v. Coffn, 108 Mass. 175, 180, it was said, the
court speaking by Gray, J. : "An interest in the nature of an
easement in the land which the covenant .prports to bind,
whether already existing, or -re~ed by the very deed which
contains the covenant, constitutes a sufficient privity of estate
to make the burden of a covenant to do certain acts upon that
land, for the support and protection of that interest and the
beneficial use and enjoyment of the land g-ranted, run with
the land charged. And an obligation, duly expressed, that the
structures upon one parcel of land shall forever be. pf a certain character for the benefit of an ad.joining parcel is equally
a charge upon the first parcel, whethef'the obligation is affirmative or merely restritive, and whether the affirmative acts
necessary to carry the obligation into effect are t6 be done by
the owner of the one or the owner of the other." And it was
held by the court, where there was a covenant to make and

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

maintain a fence on a railroad, contained in a deed granting
to the road a strip for the right of way, that this covenant
was an incumbrance on all the remaining land of the grantor,
and ran with that land, because the covenant gave the grantee
an interest in the nature of an easement in the adjoining land.
of the grantor. See also Western v. Hacdermwtt,.L. R. 2 Oh.
72; Whitney v. Union Railway, 11 Gray, 359, 364; Parkerv.
Nightingale,6" Allen, 341; Union Pacific Railway v. 3c.A1pine, 129 U. S. 305, 314; -Ae.furrayv. Moran, 134: U. 8. 150.
There can be no doubf of the power of the County company
and the Kansas City company, under the statutes of Missouri,
to make the agreement in question. Gen. Stats. of Missouri
of 1866, c. 63, see. 32, p. 341.
The only right of way through the park and to the Union
depot claimed by the appellants is that established by the tripartite agreement. Every other right of way through the park
was surrendered, by that agreement, to the Park Commissioners, because that agreement says that the line and grade established by it was thereby fixed "as the sole and finally
established right of way to which" the County company war
"entitled by statute or otherwise through said park, or any
part thereof." Such line and grade were laid down and described on the plat and profile which were attached to the
tripartite agreement and formed part thereof. The Park
Commissioners expended about $40,000 'in complying with
their engagements under that agreement. At its date, as testified to by Mr. McKinley, it was feared that the invasion of
the park by railroads would not only affect unfavorably the
landscape beauty of the park, but would also produce great,
danger to persons visiting it; and it was a long time before
the apprehension was relieved that horses would be frightened.
The consideration for the expenditure of the $40,000 was the
provision of the tripartite agreement which protected the-park
and-prevented its being defaced and injured by the construction of other railroads through it. The confining of such
railroads to the use of the single right of way established was
a reasonable - preecautiorl. Hayes .v. ]tfichigan Cent. Railroad,
111 U. S. 228; Ml[ayor of New York v. Williams, 15 N. Y.

JOY v. ST. LOUIS.
Opinion of the Court.

D02. Such provision was in the interest of the public safety,
and the Park Commissioners had the right to exact it.
In case the County company should forfeit its rights in the
park, the Kansas City company was to continue to enjoy the
right of way on the terms. imposed on the County company
by paragraph 9 of the tripartite agreement. Such construction of the contract is the only one consistent with fair dealing and the manifest intention of the parties. The tripartite
agreement is the only muniment of title under which the appellants now enjoy the right of way. The grant of the right to
other railroads to use such right of way through the park and
to the Union Depot was a grant to the.Park Commissioners, as
trustees for the public, and is to be construed liberally. Paragraph 9 is imperative. It provides that the County company
"shall permit" other railroads to'use its right of way. This
is to be done "under such reasonable regulations and terms as
may be agreed upon," and "upon such terms and for such
fair and equitable compensation to be paid" to the County
company "therefor as may be agreed upon by such companies." Not only are the regulations and terms to be reasonable, but the compensation is to be fair and equitable.
Although the statement is that the compensation is to be
such "as may be agreed upon by such companies," yet the
statement that it is to be "fair and equitable" plainly brings
in the element of its determination by a court of equity. If
the parties agree upon it, very well; but- if they do not, still
the right of way is to be enjoyed upon making compensation,
and the only way to ascertain what is a "fair and equitable" '
compensation therefor is to determine it by a court of equity.
Such is, in substance, the agreement of the parties. The provision cannot be construed as meaning that, if the parties do
not agree, there is to be no compensation, and that, because
there can in that event be no compensation, there is to be no
enjoyment of the right of way. In this view, it cannot be
said that the court is making an agreement for the parties
&
which they did not make themselves. Emery v. Wa8 8"Yes.
505; .filnes v. Gey, 14 Yes. 399; Gregory v. W'ghaill, 18
Yes. 328; City of Provide.-ne v. St. John's Lodge, 2 R. I. 46;
Dike v. Greene, 4 R. I. 285.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

On the question whether paragraph 9 of the tripartite
agreement covers not merely the right of way through the
park and up to the terminus of the road in the city of St.
Louis, but also the tracks for that extent, the opinion of the
Circuit Court very properly says: "The language of the ninth
paragraph, under which, as before noticed, intervenors must
claim, is that the party of the second part shall permit other
railroads to use its ' right of way.' Now,the term ' right of
Way' has a twofold signification.
It sometimes is used to
describe a right belonging to a party, a right of passage over
any tract; and it is also used to describe that strip of land
which railroad companies take upon which to construct their
road-bed. Obviously, in this paragraph, it is used in the latter
sense. Through both of these contracts-the terms 'right of
way,' 'track,' and 'road-bed' frequently appear, and in all
cases the term ' right of way '.is used as descriptive of the strip
above referred to. Notably, inthe fifth paragraph, is the distinction between the ' right of way ' and the ' track' disclosed,
in which it is provided- that the depbt shall be wholly outside
of the right of way, but immediately adjoining the track.
Now, the right of way through the park, as given by the
Griswold deed, was 40 feet; as fixed by the contract with the
Forest Park Commissioners was 70 feet; and by this present
contract, 42 feet. So the County road conveyed to the Kansas
road, outside of the park, a strip either 30 or 28 feet in width
for its right of way. My thought, at first, was that the intervenors could only claim a right to use so much of this right of
way as was not, in fact, occupied by the track of the Wabash,
and that all that was intended by this ninth paragraph was to
permit other railroad companies to occupy and use so much of
the Kansas road's right of way as it did not itself occupy and
use; but, after reflection on the arguments of counsel, I have
been led to the conviction that this was too narrow a construction, and was not the real intent of the parties. The master,
in his report, shows that the entire right of way is .occupied
by iracks and sidings, so that there is no room for another
and independent track; and as there is nothing to show that
this occupation has not been made in good faith, and to supply

JOY v. ST. LOUIS.
Opinion of the Court.

the needs of the Wabash company, if my first interpretation
had been- correct, the intervenors would plainly be without
any rights. I think, however, the true construction is this:
that the Kansas company was to have the first right- a right
not limited to its necessities, but as broad as its convenience.
Subject, and only subject, to such prior right, other companies
were to have the use of the right of way, and if the respondent's business compelled the occupation by its tracks or sidings
of the entire right of way, but the convenience of its business
would permit the use of those tracks and sidings by another
road, then such other road would be entitled to the use of
both the right of way and the tracks and sidings. This construction is, I think, in accordance with the obvious intent of
the parties, who were contracting for general rights, and not
fixing the specific details."
The evidence shows that the entire right of way is occupied
with tracks and sidings, so that there is no room for another
and independent track, and that the entrance into the Union
Depot over the tracks of the Wabash company is the only
practical route for the road of the Colorado company to that
depot. As the Kansas City company had the right to cover
its right of way with main and side-tracks, so that there should
be no room on such right of way for the tracks of another
railroad, it would be in its power to defeat the intent of the
agreement, if the right of way should be held not to include
the tracks. Moreover, as the County company and the Kansas
City company were tenants in common of the right of way
through the park and to the east end of the cut, each company
had the right to use the whole of the right of way, subject to
the right of the other company to use the whole of it. Hence,
the grant to other roads of the privilege of using the right of
way applied to the whole of such right of way through'the
park, and not to a particular part of it. The track cannot be
separated from the right of way, the right of way being the
principal thing and the track merely an incident. A right of
way is of no practical use to a railroad without a superstructure and rails, The track is a necessary incident to the enjoyment of the right of way. The record shows that the railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

of the Colorado company is of the same gauge as that of the
Wabash company, and that it is entirely practicable for the
Colorado company to use the tracks of the Wabash company
from the north line of the park to the Union Depot, subject to
the reasonable rules and regilations of the Wabash company.
The appellants having denied all right of the Colorado company under the tripartite agreement, it became necessary for
the intervenors to come into a court of equity; and the court,
having taken cognizance rightfully of the subject matter in
controversy, has the power to settle not only the right but
also the amount of compensation. The action of the Circuit
-Court was, in effect, to enforce the specific performance of
the agreement. The offer by the Colorado company, in its
bill, to pay a fair and equitable compensation, with its prayer
to have such compensation determined by the court, brought
the matter within the cognizance of the court, the other party
having substantially agreed, by paragraph 9 of the tripartite
agreement, that the compensation should be determined by a
court of equity. The prayer for an injunction to restrain the
Wabash company and its receiver from refusing to permit the
Colorado company to use the right of way of the Wabash
company from the north line of the park to Eighteenth Street,
is a prayer for all that is necessary to secure practically the
specific performance of the agreement. Dinham v. Bradford,
L. R. 5 Ch. 519; Tillett v. Charing Cross Bridge Co., 26 Beav.
419; Raphael v. Thames Valley Railway; L. R. 2 Eq. 37;
Tscheider v. Biddle, 4 Dillon, 55; Biddle v. Ramsey,52 Missouri, 153; Arnot v. Alexander, 44 Missouri, 27; Uug v. Van
Burkee, 58 Missouri, 202; Gregory v. .-Mighell, 18 Yes. 328.
The right to use the right of way is a continuing right. If
the remedy were to be at law, repeated actions for damages
would be necessary. The remedy at law would be wholly
inadequate. It would not §eoure directly the enforcement of
the provision of paragraph 9 of the tripartite agreement, or
the use of the right of way -by the Colorado company. It
would be neither plain or complete, nor would it be a reasonable substitute for the remedy in equity, by the injunction
asked for.

JOY v. ST. LOUIS.
Opinion of the Court.

The appellants rely largely upon cases of the character of
that of Marble Co. v. 1?ipl%y, 10 Wall. 339, where this court
refused to enforce the specific performanciiof a personal contract to deliver from a quarry marble of certain kinds and in
blocks of a specified kind, holding that, as the duties required
of the owners of the marble quarry were continuous, and the
agreement was one for a perpetual supply of marble, the court
could make no decree which would end the controversy, and
the case would have to remain in the court forever, with the
liability on the part of the court to be called upon, to the end
of time, to determine, not only whether the 'prescribed quantity of marble had been delivered, but whether every block
was from the right place, and was sound, and of suitable size
or shape or proportion; and it was held that it was impracticable for -the court to superintend the execution of such a
I
decree.
In the present case, it is urged that the court will be called
upon to determine from time to time what are reasonable
regulations to be made by the Wabash company for the running of trains upon its tracks by the Colorado company. But
this is no more than a court of equity is called upon to do
whenever it takes charge of the running of a railroad by
means of a receiver. Irrespectively of this, the decree is complete in itself and disposes. of the controversy; and it is not
unusual for a court of equity to take supplemental proceedings
to carry out its decree and make it effective under altered circumstances.
Considerations of the interests of the public are held to be
controlling upon a court of equity, when a public means of
transportation, such ai a railroad, comes into the possession
and under the dominion of the court. These considerations
have been recognized and applied by this .court in several
cases. Barton v. BRarbour, 104: U. S. 126; XfiUnberger v.
1ogansportRailway, 106 U. S. 286, 311, 312; Union TPUst
Co. v. IllinUis Midland R2ailway, 117 U. S- 434, 458.
The Circuit Court having adopted the rate of compensation
insisted upon by the appellants, and the Colorado company
not having taken an appeal, tlje -question-of the rate of com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

pensation is concluded between the parties. So also is the
question that the rules and regulations for the running of the
trains of the Colorado company are to be those rrescribed by
the Wabash company and its successors.
In view of the testimony as to the use, by agreement, of the
tracks of one railroad company by the engines and cars of
another, the practical difficulties insisted upon of carrying out
the regulations laid down in the decree of the Circuit Court
amount to very little, if anything. That these regulations are
practical is shown by the agreement of August 11, 1875, between the County company and the Kansas City company, in
that provision thereof, which is as follows, and which was
adopted to a certain extent by the Circuit Court in its decree:
"It is agreed and covenanted that to accommodate the running
arrangements of the party of the second part said party of
the second part shall have the absolute and sole control of the
running, starting and regulating of the time-tables of and"
for -its own trains; and it is further agreed and covenanted
that no train, locomotive, car or other conveyance of the
party of the first part, its successors or assigns, shall be allowed
or attempted to be started or run within eight (8) minutes of
the time fixed or stated for the starting, coming in or running
of the train or trains of he party of the second part, its successors or assigns; and there shall be twenty minutes' time
between the starting and coming in of the trains of the party
of the second part, and this matter as to said specified times
shall be-under the sole control and regulation of the party of
the second part." It is to be noted, however, that the agreement referred to gave to the Kansas City company the control
only of its own trains, while the decree gives to the Wabash
company the control of all the trains to be run over its tracks,
with the proviso that the tains of the Colorado company shall
not ba started or run within eight minutes of the time fixed
for the starting, coming in or running of the trains of the
Wabash company. The latter company is required. only to
;make reasonable rules and regulations for the running of the
trains of the Colorado company. . The Wabash company is to
-fix the time-tables, and the trains of the Colorado company

JOY v. ST. LOUIS.
Opinion of the Court.

are to be operated on the tracks of the Wabash company, subject to the rules and regulations of the latter company so long
as a train of the former company occupies the tracks of the
latter company.
It is objected that the details of the m.aner of the use of
the right of way are not-set forth in paragraph 9 of the tripartite agreement, and that, therefore, a court of equity will
not decree a specific performance. But, viewing the two
agreements of August 11, 1875, as 'a single contract, the details as to the manner of use of the right of way are sufficiently furnished by agreement of the parties, for it is provided by the agreement of August 11, 1875, between the
County company and the Kansas City company, not only that
the latter company shall have the absolute and sole control
of the starting, running and regulating of the time-tables of
and for its own trains, but also, that the matter of the relative
times of the starting, coming in and running of the trains of
the County company and of those of the Kansas City company shall be under the sole control and regulation of the
latter company, its successors and assigns.
The case of Texa & Paci~f Railway Co. v. .Marshall,136
U. S. 393, is much relied upon by the appellants; but the principle of that case does not apply to the present one. There,
the court held that, if the railroad company was under a con-tract with the city of Marshall to keep there its princilial
office of business and its main machine shops and car works,
it was much more consonant to justice that the injury suffered
by the city should be compensated by a single judgment in an
action at law; that there was no substantial difficulty in ascertaining such compensation; and that, therefore, the city
had a complete remedy at lav. But in the present case, the
remed r in damages by an action at law would be entirely inadequate, and nothing short of the interposition of a court of
equity would provide for the exigencies of the situation. See,
also, Wilson v. NYorthampton &o.Railway Co., L. R. 9 Ch. 279,
The decree of the Circuit Court is so framed as to execute
itself. It finds that the rules and regulations now in force for
the running of trains over the right of way and tracks of the
VOL. cxxxvin-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Wabash company, and which are set forth in the record, are
reasonable rules and regulations. So long as they are undisturbed, there is no 'occasion for the action or interposition of
the court.
The fact that the railroads which are to be allowed, under
paragraph 9 of the tripartite agreement, to -use the right of
way through the park and up to the terminus in the city of
St. Louis, are not named in that paragraph, is of no importance. Wolverhampton Railway Co. v. London. and North,
'we8tern Railway, L. R. 16 Eq. 433; Exprems Caes, 117 U. S.
1; Railway Co. v.'Alling, 99 U. S. 463.
Railroads are common carriers and owe duties to the public.
The rights of the public in respect to these great highways of
communication should be fostered by the courts; and it is
'one of the most useful functions of a court of equity that its
methods of procedure are capable of being made such as to
accommodate themselves to the development of the interests
of the public, in the progress of trade and traffic, by new
methods of intercourse and transportation. The present case
is a striking illustration. Here is a great public park, one of
the lungs of an important city, which, in order to maintain its
usefulness as a park, must be as free as possible from being
serrated by railroads; and yet the interests of the public demand that it shall be crossed by a railroad. But the evil consequences of such crossing are to be reduced to a minimum
by having a single right of way, and a single set of tracks to
be used by all the railr ads which desire to cross the park.
These two antagonisms must be reconciled, and that can be
flone only by the interposition of a court of equity, which
thus will be exercising one of its most beneficent functions.
As to the objection that there is no mutuality in the contract, and therefore it cannot be enforced, the Circuit Court
says in its opinion: "As, to the objection on the ground of
the want of mutuality in the contract, I think it of little force.
The respondent has been aid for the privilege that is now
claimed. The consideration, as I have heretofore shown, was
ample; and, when a party has received payment for a privilege, I do liot think it can resist the enforcement of that privi-

JOY v. ST. LOUIS.
Opinion of the Court.

lege on the mere ground that it cannot compel the other party
to continue in its enjoyment." We concur in this view. Under the tripartite agreement, the right of way through the
park was obtained by the Kansas City company, and, in
consideration of the covenants contained in paragraph 9 and
other paragraphs of that agreement, $40,000 were expended
by the Park Commissioners in aid of the construction of the
railroad through the park, upon the right of way granted.
Things were to be done by each party for valuable considerations to be paid by one to- the other. The Park Commissioners complied in all respects with the agreement. Although
the one easement was granted in consideration of the other,
the appellants refused to permit the enjoyment of the easement which they granted. The want of mutuality is urged
when the appellants are called upon to comply with the covenant which isvaluable to the city of St. Louis and the public
whom that city represents. Such want of mutuality is alleged
to consistin the inability of the appellants to prevent other
railroads which may use the right of way from discontinuing
such use, and in the fact that thd contract did not specify the
period during which the other railroads should be required to
use the right of way. But we think that there is no such
want of mutuality as should interfere with the enforcement of
the contract.
It is insisted that the County company had no power to
bind itself to grant the use of its right of way east of the park.
But the appellants do not occupy a position to insist upon that
objection, so long as they themselves use the right of way
which was granted, and enjoy the benefit of the money which
the Park Commissioners expended.
The city of St. Louis is, fn the present case, not merely a
nominal party, but is charged with the duty of protecting the
park, and of preserving and fostering the commerce' of the
city. Both of those objects are clearly set forth in the tripartite agreement executed by the Park Commissioners, of
whom the city of St. Louis is the successor; and the considerations thus arising are legitimate ones in a court of equity, the
case being founded upon the tripartite agreement.
Decree Jffrmed

