600P v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

COOK v. UTITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 1311. Argued December 11, 12, 1890. -Decided

Jauuary 26, 1891.

By the act of March'l, 1889, 25 Stat. 783, c. 333, "to establish a United
States court in the Indian Territory, and for other purposes," the strip
of public land lying south of Kansas and Colorado, and betiyeeu the one
hundredth and the one hundred and third meridians, and known as
No Man's Land, was brought within the jurisdiction of the court for the
Indian Territory so established, and was attached for limited judicial
purposes to the Eastern District of Texas.
The history of and the legislation concerning the Indian Territory considered and reviewed.
By the act of March 1, 1889, 25 Stat. 783, c. 333, the intention of Congress
to confer upon the Circuit Court of the United States in the Eastern
District of Texas power to try defendants for the offence of murder,
committed before its passage, where no prosecution had been commenced, was so clearly expressed as to take it out of the well settled
rule that a statute should not be interpreted to have a retroactive operation where vested rights are injuriously affected by it; and it must be
construed as operating retroactively.
The provision in Article 3 of the Constitution of the United States as to
crimes "not committed within any State" that "the trial shall be at
such place or places as the Congress may by law have directed" imposes
no restriction as to the place of trial, except that the trial cannot occur
until Congress designates the place, and may occur at any place which
shall have been designated by Congress previous to the trial; and it is
not infringed by the provision in the act of March 1, 1889, 25 Stat. 783,
c. 333, conferring jurisdiction upon the Circuit Court in the Eastern
District of Texas to try defendants for the offence of murder committed
before its passage.
The Sixth Amendment to the Constitution, providing for the trial in criminal prosecutions by a jury "of the State and district.wherein the crimi
shall have been committed, which district shall have been previously
ascertained by law," has reference only to offences against the United
States committed within a State, and is not infringed by the act of
March 1, 1889, 25 Stat. 7.83, c. 333.
The act of March 1, 1889, 25 Stat. 783, c. 333, although it'subjects persons
charged with murder committed in a place under the eiclusive jurisdiction of the United States, but not within any State, to trial in a judicial
district different fro6m the one in which they might have been tried at

OCTOBER TER-M, 1890.
Statement of the Case.
the time the offence was committed, is not repugnant to Art. I, Sec. 9 of
the Constitution of the United States as an ex postfacto law; since an ex
.post facto law does not involve, in any of its definitions, a change of the
place of trial of an alleged offence, after its commission.
The Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Texas,
held at Paris, in that District, at the October Term, in 1889, had jurisdiction of an indictment for murder, charged to have been committed in
the country known as "No Man's Land" July 25, 1888.
The Attorney General having, by his brief, confessed, as it was his duty to
do, that there was error in an important ruling in the court below,
entitling the defendants to a reversal, this court reverses the judgment
of that court, and remands the case for a new trial.

TH_.RE was, in July, 1888, a parallelogram of unorganized
public land extending from the 100th meridian on the east
to the 103d on the west, and from latitude 36° 30' to latitude
37' . It was called "Public Land" upon the maps, but was
commonly known as "No 'Man's Land." It was originally
a part of the Republic of Texas; but, in the annexation, the
parallel of 360 30' was made the northerly line of the State,
presumably in order to apply the rule of the Missouri Compromise. Kansas and Colorado were subsequently organized,
in part out of this acquired territory north of 360 30', with
their southern boundaries on the 37th parallel; the west line
of the Indian Territory was fixed at the 100th meridian; and
the eastern boundary of New Mexico was fixed on the 103d
meridian, thus leaving this small strip of land not included in
any organized State or Territory.
By the act of March 1, 1889, 25 Stat. 783, c. 333, it was
provided that "a United States court is hereby established
whose jurisdiction shall extend over the Indian Territory
bounded as follows, to wit: north by the State of Kansas,
east by the States of Missouri and Arkansas, south by the
State of Texas, and west by the State of Texas and the Territory of New Mexico." It will be seen that the Indian Territory as thus defined on the west stretches to the border of
INew Mexico. To do this its northern line must run upon a
portion of the southern line of Colorado. But Colorado is not
mentioned in the act; only Kansas.
Under the provisions of the 17th section of that act it was

COOK v. -UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

provided that this part of the Indian Territory should "from
and after the passage of this act be annexed to and constitute
a part of the Eastern Judicial District of the State of Texas
for judicial purposes." p. 786.
By the act of May 2, 1890, 26 Stat. 81, c. 102, this parallelogram was made a part of the Territory of Oklahoma; but
by section 9 of that act it was provided that crimes committed
therein "prior to the passage of this act shall be tried and
prosecuted and proceeded with, until finally disposed of, in
the courts now having jurisdiction thereof, as if this act had
not been passed." 26 Stat. 86.
The plaintiffs in error were, at October term, 1889, of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Texas, sitting at Paris in that State indicted for murder committed in No Man's Land. The allegations in the indictment
were as follows:
"Eastern District of Texas, ss. : The grand jurors of the
United States of America, duly elected, impanelled, tried,
sworn and charged to inquire into and due presentment make
of offences against the laws of the United States of America
in and for the district and circuit aforesaid, on their oath in
said court present: That heretofore, to wit, on the twentyfifth day of July in the year of our Lord one thousand eight
hundred and eighty-eight, in that section of the country lying
between Kansas and Texas, bounded on the west by New
Mexi6o, and extending east to the hundredth meridian-of longitude, commonly called the Neutral Strip or 'No Man's
Land,' in the Indian Territory, the same being attached to
and constituting part of the Eastern District of Texas for
judicial purposes, and within the jurisdiction of this court,"
etc. - (then charging the homicide).
The trial, at which various exceptions to the ruling of the
court were duly taken, resulted in conviction and sentence, to
review which this writ of error was brought. Several assignments of error were made, but the only ones considered by
this court were those which related to the jurisdiction of the
court below, and the following:
"Tenth. The court erred in permitting the counsel for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Plaintifs in Error.

government to read from the report of Attorney General
Bradford in the hearing of the jury certain statements, then
to ask the witness Bradford if he did not make the statements
so read in said report, and in overruling the objections of plaintiffs in error thereto. And the court erred in admitting in
evidence, over the objections of plaintiffs in error, certain
parts of said report, as shown of record, because said witness
Bradford was placed upon the witness stand by the government as a rebutting witness after counsel for government knew
what he would testify to, and said witness had testified as such
rebutting witness to the exact facts that the government's
counsel had expected him to testify to; and because said witness had stated that plaintiff in error, C. E. Cook, did not
state to him in language or in substance the statement contained in said report; because what witness stated in said
report was not a report required of him in his official capacity
as Attorney General of the State of Kansas. Neither said
report nor any part thereof was relevant or competent, and is
hearsay, and ought not to have been admitted in evidence."
.Mr.
George R. Peck and .Xr. John F. Dillon, (with whom
were Mr.William R?. Day, Mr.Josep1A Frfease and .Mr. TV.
-H.Rossington, on the brief,) for plaintiffs in error, made the
following points upon the question of jurisdiction:
The Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Texas had no jurisdiction of the offence charged in
the indictment for the following distinct reasons:
(1) The Neutral Strip or "No Man's Land" at the date of
the homicide alleged in the indictment (July 25, 1888) was
outside of the jurisdiction of any particular state or federal
district; and no court of the United States had jurisdiction to
prosecute criminally the alleged homicide; or, if any court
had jurisdiction, it was not the Circuit Court for the Eastern
District of Texas, but was the district where the defendants
were found or arrested.
(2) The allegation in the indictment on which the court
below assumed jurisdiction, viz., that on the 25th day of July,

COOK v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

1888, the Neutral Strip or "No Man's Land" was "in the
Indian Territory, the same being attached to and constituting
part of the Eastern District of Texas for judicial purposes,
and within the jurisdiction of this court," is untrue in point
of fact and of law.
(3) If "No Man's Land" was, at the date of the commission of the alleged homicide (July 25, 1888), within or attached
to any judicial district of the United States, it was the Nforthern District of Texas and not the Eastern District of Texas.
(4) The Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Texas assumed jurisdiction by virtue ,of sec. 18
of the act of March 1, 1889, 25 Stat. 786. If this act operated
to extend the jurisdiction of that court to offences committed
in No Man's Land, it did so only as to offences committed
after the approval of that act. It could not, under the Constitution, make a past offence triable in the district created by
that act instead of the district which existed when the offence
was committed; nor could the act be made retrospective, so
as to embrace an offence committed before its passage.
The legislation bearing upon these propositions is as follows:
Indian Territory. 4 Stat. 729, c. 161; 5 Stat. 680, c. 103;
16 Stat. 362, a. 296, § 12; 18 Stat. 51, c. 205; 18 Stat. 420, c.
132; 19 Stat. 176, c. 289; 19 Stat. 254, c. 72; 19 Stat. 272,
c. 101; 19 Stat. 323, c 103; 19 Stat. 338, o. 103; 19 Stat.
356, c. 105; 22 Stat. 405, c. 13; 25 Stat. 783, c. 333.
-Yo .Man's Land: 5 Stat. 797, Resolution No. 8; 9 Stat.
446, c. 49; 4 Stat. 729, c. 161; 5 Stat. 680, c. 103; 19 Stat.
230, c. 41; 22 Stat. 400, c. 13; 20 Stat. 318, c. 97;- 25 Stat.
783, c. 333.
On this legislation we submit that it -is entirely clear that
the allegations in the indictment that the Neutral Strip or
"No Man's Land" was, on July 25, 1888 (the date of the
homicide), in the "Indian Territory," and that the same was
attached to and constituted part of the Eastern Judicial District of Texas, are, and each of those allegations is, wholly
without foundation. On the contrary, it appears from the
foregoing legislation that on the 25th of July, 1888, "No
VOL. Cx0ivni-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

Man's Land" was no part of the Indian Territory, and was
not at that time situate in or annexed to any judicial district
of the United States. It was not part of the Indian Territory,
or part of the Indian Country, as it stood annexed by the
acts of 1834 and 1844, noticed above, to the District of Arkansas, and it was no part of the "Indian Territory," as it was by
the act of January 31, 1877, annexed by the then well known
name, "Indian Territory," to the Western District of Arkansas; it was not part of the "Indian Territory' within the
meaning of the act of January 6, 1883, which divided the
jurisdiction over the Indian Territory between Kansas and
the ..YorthernIDistrict of Texas. The result is, that it was not,
on July 25, 1888, the date of the alleged homicide, part of
any judicial district. If this be so, the conclusion necessarily
follows that the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Texas had no jurisdiction.
But we contend further that no federal court has jurisdiction.
The Constitution of the United States provides (Sec. 2, Art.
III,) that when crimes are not committed within any State
"the trial shall be at such place or places as the Congress may
by law have directed." This means that the place or places
of trial must have been directed by Congress by statute prior
to the commission of the offence.
Section 730 of the Revised Statutes provides that the trial
of all offences committed on the high seas or elsewhere, out of
the jurisdiction of any particular state or district, shall be in
the district where the offender is found, or into which he is
first brought. It has been held that this refers only to maritime offences, and not to offences committed on land. United
State8 v. Alberty, Hemp. 444. And in -EvxparteBoliman, 4
Cranch, 75, it was held that if an offence be committed on
land, the offender must be tried by the court having jurisdiction over the territory where the offence was committed.
We therefore submit that "No Man's Land" was on July
25, 1888, the date of the alleged homicide, no part of any judicial district, and that Congress had not previously to that
time prescribed any place for the trial of offences committed

COOK v. UNITED STAVTES.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

within that region; and that, under the Constitution, Congress
could not, if it had undertaken to do so (which it did not),
afterwards prescribe a place of trial. Such act would not
only be in conflict with Sec. 2, Art. III, of the Constitution,
above referred to, but would also be ex post facto within the
meaning of the Constitution, as is shown by the decision and
reasoning in Ering v. -Missouri,107 LT. S.221.
But if we are mistaken in this, and if section 730 of the
Revised Statutes does apply to offences committed on land,
outside of any particular State or district, then the distinct
provision is that the trial "shall be in the district where the
offender is found, or into which he is first brought;" and that
fact ought to be alleged in the indictment; certainly in some
proper mode to appear of record. Such allegation in the
indictment would seem to be necessary in order to show that
the crime is within the limited jurisdiction of the particular
federal court. In point of fact the defendants were residents
of and were arrested in, Kansas, and applied to Mr. Justice
Brewer to be released on habeas corpus. In re Jaokso , 40
Fed. Rep. 372.
We have thus far considered the question on the hypothesis
that at the time the homicide was committed, No Man's Land
was within no judicial district. But if we are mistaken in
this position, then it belonged, if to any, to the .gortern
District of Texas by virtue of the act of January 6, 1883, 22
Stat. 400, c. 13. The result would be that the Eastern District of Texas would have no jurisdiction; and, confessedly, it
has none, except it is conferred by the eighteenth section of
the act of March 1, 1889, 25 Stat. 783, which was passed
after the date of the alleged homicide.
Nothing seems to us to be plainer than that the act of 1889
does not undertake to give any jurisdiction to the Circuit
Court for the Eastern District of Texas as to past offences.
The only language relating to jurisdiction is the following:
"And the United States Courts herein provided to be held at
Paris shall have exclusive original jurisdiction of all offences
against the laws of the United States within the limits of that
portion of the Indian Territory attached to the Eastern Judi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Plaintiffs in -Error.

cial District of the State of Texas by the provisions of this
act," et cet.
There is no reason to suppose that Congress in the use of
the words that the "Court herein provided to be held at Paris
shall have exclusive original jurisdiction of all offences against
the laws of the United States," meant to refer to past offences.
There is not the slightest evidence or indication of any such
intention to be found in the act. The ordinary principles of
construction apply, namely, that, a statute shallohave a prospective operation only, unless in clear terms it is given a
retrospective operation.
It is a sound rule of construction that a statute should have
a prospective operation only, unless its terms show clearly a
legislative intention that it should operate retrospectively.
Chew Heong v. UniteJ States) 112 U. S. 536; U ited State&
v. Starr, Hlemp. 469.
But if the act of March 1, 1889, 25 Stat. -783, shall be
construed to be retrospective, and to have been intended to
apply to offences committed in "No Man's Land" prior to
the passage of that act, the said act is void because in conflict with Sec. 2, Art. III, of the Constitution, for the reason
that Congress had no power to fix or change the district in
which the trial should be had after the commission of the
offence.
This section provides that in the States crimes shall be
prosecuted within the States where committed, and when the
orime is committed without the States the trial shall be at
such place or places as the Congress may by law have directed.
When introduced the last clause read as follows: "As the
legislature may direct." It was changed so as to read "as the
Congress may by law have directed."
The object of this provision is plain. It was intended to
secure to the accused a trial by jury in the place where the
crime was committed. If Congress might fix the place of
trial after the commission of an offence it could provide for
trial in a district remote from the residence of the accused, at
such a distance from the witnesses as to deprive him of their
presence and testimony. All such attempts are rendered void

COOK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

by the constitutional provisions above quoted. United Sateg
v. -Maxon,5 Blatchford, 360; Gut v. The State, 9 Wall. 35, 37;
Exjparte Devoe JM'f'g Co., 108 U. S. 401, 417.
.Mr. Attorney General and Akr. Solicitor General for defendants in error. Their brief contained the following paragraphs,
entitled "Confession of error."
The admission of the report of the Attorney General of
Kansas upon the murder, and the charge of the court to the
jury with respect to the effect thereof, were error prejudicial
to the defendants below.
It will be seen from the foregoing that the government was
permitted to contradict its own witness by introducing a written statement signed by him, made at another time, and that
this was done without any professional statement to the court
by counsel for tbe 'government that they were surprised and
misled into calling'him. Such a course is contrary to all the
rules of evidence. . . . It is not necessary to discuss the
question whether the charge was erroneous. It was grossly so,
and must have been very prejudicial. It was the admission
of the purest hearsay evidence upon the crucial point in the
case.

MR.JusTIcE HAnI.AN delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiffs in error, with others, were indicted in the
court below at its October term, 1889, and were convicted and
sentenced to suffer death, for the crime of murder alleged to
have been committed on the 25th day of July, 1888, in that
part of the United States designated in numerous public documents as the Public Land Strip, but commonly called No
:Man's Land. It is 167 miles in length, 34 miles in width,
lies between the 100th meridian of longitude and the Territory
of New Mexico, and is bounded on the south by that part of
Texas known as the Panhandle, and by Kansas and Colorado
on the north.
Tbhe prosecution was based upon section 5339 of the Revised
Statutes, providing that "every person who commits murder

166-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

within any fort, arsenal, dock-yard, magazine or in any other
place or district of country under, the exclusive jurisdiction of
the United States, . . . shall suffer death;" and upon the
act of Congress of March 1, 1889, establishing a court of the
United States for the Indian Territory and for other purposes,
and attaching a part of that Territory, for limited judicial
purposes, to the Eastern District of Texas. 25 Stat. 783, c.
333.
The principal assignment of error is based upon these general propositions: That at the date of the alleged homicide
the Public Land Strip was not within the jurisdiction of any
particular state or federal district, and that no court of
the United States had jurisdiction to try the alleged offence,
or if any court had jurisdiction it was not the court below,
but the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Texas, or that of the District of Kansas in which
the defendants were found and arrested; and that if the above
act of March 1, 1889 -under which alone this prosecution was
conducted -placed the Public Land Strip within the limits of
the Eastern District of Texas, it did not, and consistently with
the Constitution of the United States could not, give the Circuit Court for that district jurisdiction of offences committed
prior to its enactment.
Did Congress intend to attach the Public Land Strip to the
Eastern District of Texas for any purpose? That necessarily
is the question to be first considered. And it must be determined without reference to the act of May 2, 1890, providing
a temporary government for Oklahoma; for that act, while
including this strip within the Territory of Oklahoma, declares
that all "crimes committed in said Territory" prior to its passage "shall be tried and prosecuted, and proceeded with until
finally disposed of, in the courts now [then] having jurisdiction thereof," as if that act had not been passed. 26 Stat. 81,
86, c. 182, §§ 1, 9. We shall be aided in the solution of the
question of jurisdiction by recalling the history of the Public
Land Strip, and various acts of Congress, preceding that of
1889, which are supposed to have some bearing upon this case.
The Public Land Strip was once a part of the possessions of

COOK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Mexico. This appears from the treaty of January 12, 1828,
between the United States of America and the United Mexican States, confirming the previous treaty of February 22,
1819, with the Monarchy of Spain. 8 Stat. 372, 374. When
Texas achieved its independence this strip was within its limits. Indeed, the Republic of Texas originally embraced the
present territory of the State of Texas, as well as parts of
what. now constitutes New Mexico, Arizona, Colorado and
Kansas. On the day of its admission into the Union, by the
Joint Resolution of December 29, 1845, the judicial District of
Texas was established, embracing the entire State. ..9 Stat. 1,
108.
Congress, by an act of September 9, 1850, 9 Stat. 446, c. 49,
made certain propositions to Texas, one of which was that its
boundary on the north should commence at the point where
the meridian of one hundred degrees west from Greenwich is
intersected by the parallel of thirty-six degrees thirty minutes
north latitude, and run from that point due west to the meridian of one hundred and three degrees; thence due south to the
thirty-second degree of north latitude; thence on the latter
parallel to the Rio Bravo del Norte; and thence with the
channel of that river to the Gulf of Mexico. This proposition
was accepted by Texas. Oldham and White's Digest Laws of
Texas, p. 55. By the same act, § 2, the eastern boundary of
New Mexico was established on the one hundred and third
meridian. The remaining territory of Texas, as it was when
admitted into the Union, passed by that act under the jurisdiction of the United States. The Territory of Kansa was
organized by the act of May 30, 1854, c. 59, § 19, 10 Stat.
277, 283, its southern line being fixed on the 37th parallel of
north latitude. The Territory of Colorado was organized by
an act approved February 28, 1861, 12 Stat. 172, c. 59, its
eastern boundary being on the 102d meridian, and its southern boundary being on the 37th parallel of north latitude.
lb. §'1. The result of all these enactments was that the body
of public lands, known as the Public Land Strip, was left outside of Texas as well as of the Territories of New lexico,
Kansas and Colorado.

-OCTOBER

TERM, 1890.

Opinion of the Court.

By the act of February 21, 1857, the State of Texas was
divided into two judicial districts, the Western and the Eastern. 11 Stat. 164, c. 57. The Northern District was established by an act passed February 24, 1879, with courts at
Waco, Dallas County, and Graham, Young County, embracing
one hundred and ten counties by name, including Sherman,
Hansford, Ochiltree and Lipscomb in the panhandle, immediately south of the Public Land Strip, and Hemphill, Wheeler,
Collingsworth and Childress immediately west of the 100th
meridian, and Hardeman, Wilbarger, Wichita, Clay, Montague,
Cooke, Grayson, Fannin and Lamar immediately south of the
Indian Territory, in the central and eastern parts of Texas,
but excluding the counties of Red River and Bowie in the
latter State near the Arkansas line. The same act enlarges
the Eastern District of Texas, and designates all the counties
that should thereafter compose the Eastern and Western DisUnder this act the Eastern District
tricts, respectively.
embfaced, among others, the counties next to Louisiana and
Arkansas, including Red River and Bowie. 20 Stat. 318,
c. 97.
An act of Congress was passed January 6, 1883, -for the
holding at Wichita of a term of the District Court of the
United States for the District of Kansas and for other purposes, 22 Stat. 400. c. 13. By that act (§ 2) "all that poition
of the Indian Territory lying north of the Canadian River and
-east of Texas and the one hundredth meridian not set apart
and occupied by the Cherokee, Creek and Seminole Indian
tribes," was annexed to the District of Kansas; and the United
States District Courts at Wichita and Fort Scott in that district were given "exclusive original jurisdiction of all offences
committed within the limits of the territory hereby annexed
to said District of Kansas against any of the laws of the
United States no* or that may hereafter be operative therein."
It was further provided: "§ 3. That all that portion of the
Indian Territory not annexed to the District of Kansas by
this act, and not set apart and occupied by the Cherokee,
Creek, Choctaw, Chicasaw and Seminole Indian tribes, shall,
:from and after the passage of this act, be annexed to a'nd con-

COOK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

stitute a part of the United States judicial district known as
the Northern District of Texas; and the United States District Court at Graham, in said Northern District of Texas,
shall have exclusive original jurisdiction of all offences 'committed within the limits of the territory hereby annexed to
said Northern District of Texas against any of the laws of
the United States now or that may hereafter be operative
therein. § 4. That nothing contained in this act shall be construed to affect in any manner any .action or proceeding now
pending in the Circuit or District Court for the Western District of Arkansas, nor the execution of any process relating
thereto; nor shall anything in this act be construed to give to
said District Courts of Kansas and Texas, respectively, any
greater jurisdiction in that part of said Indian Territory so as
aforesaid annexed, respectively, to said District of Kansas and
said Northern District of Texas, than might heretofore have
been lawfully exercised therein by the Western District of
Arkansas; nor shall anything in this act- contained be construed to violate or impair, in any respect, any treaty provision whatever." It is insisted, on behalf of the United States,
that this act attached the Public Land Strip to the Northern
District of Texas; that the words, "Indian Territory," were
used to include that strip; and that such a construction is
sustained both by executive recognitiojA and by the legislation
of Congress.
Then comes the act of March 1, 1889, c. 333, above referred
to, 25 Stat. 783, which, it is contended, transferrdd the Public
Land Strip from the Northern District to the Eastern District
of Texas. By its first section a United States Court, to be
held at Muscogee, is established, " whose jurisdiction shall
extend over the Indian Territory, bounded as follows, to wit:
North by the State of Kansas, east by the States of -Missouri
and Arkansas, south by the State of Texas, and west by the
State of Texas and the Territory of New Mexico." It is
given (§ 5) "exclusive original jurisdiction over all offences
against the laws of the United States committed within the
Indian Territory as in this act defined, not punishable by
,death of by -mprisonment at hard labor." That court was

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

also given (§ 6) "jurisdiction in all civil cases between citizens
of the United States who are residents of the Indian Territory, or between citizens of the United States, or of any State
or Territory therein, and any citizen of or person or persons
residing or found in the Indian Territory, and when the value
of the thing in controversy, or damages or money claimed
shall amount to one hundred dollars or more: Provided, That
nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to .give the
court jurisdiction over controversies between persons of Indian
blood only."
The seventeenth, eighteenth and twenty-eighth sections of
that act ar4 as follows:
"SEC. 17. That the Chickasaw Nation and the portion of
the Choctaw Nation within the following boundaries, to wit Beginning on Red River at the southeast corner of the Choctav Nation; thence north with the boundary line between
the said Choctaw Nation and the State of Arkansas, to a point
where Big Creek, a tributary of.the Black Fork of the Kimishi
River, crosses the said boundary line; thence westerly with
Big Creek and the said Black Fork to the junction of the said
Black Fork with Buffalo Creek; thence northwesterly with
said Buffalo Creek to a point where the same is crossed by
the old military road from Fort Smith, Arkansas, to Boggy
Depot, in the Choctaw Nation; thence southwesterly with
the said road to where the same crosses Perryville Creek;
thence northwesterly up said creek to where the same is
crossed by the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway track;
thence -northerly up the centre of the, main track of the said
road to the South Canadian River; thence up the centre of
the main channel of the said river to the western boundary
line of the Chickasaw Nation, the same being the northwest
corner of the said nation; -thence south on the boundary line
between the said nation and the reservation of the Wichita
Indians-; thence continuing south with the boundary line
between the said Chickasaw Nation -and the reservations of
the Itiowa, Comanche and Apache Indians to Red River;
thence down said river to the place of beginning; and all that
portion of the"Indian Territory not annexed to the District of

COOK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion 'of the Court.

Kansas by the act approved January sixth, eighteen hundred
and eighty-three, and not set apart and occupied by the five
civilized tribes, shall, from and after the passage of this act,
be annexed to and constitute a part of the Eastern Judicial
District of the State of Texas, for judicial purposes.
"SEc. 18. That the counties of Lamar, Fannin, Red River
and Delta of the State of Texas, and all that part of the
Indian Territory attached to the said Eastern Judicial District
of the State of Texas by the provisipns of this act, shall constitute a division of the Eastern Judicial District of Texas;
and terms of the Circuit and District Courts of the United
States for the said Eastern District of the State of Texas shall
be held twice in each year at the city of Paris, on the third
Mondays in April and the second Mondays in October; and
the United States courts herein provided to be held at Paris
shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of all offences 'committed against the laws of the United States within the limits
of that portion of the Indian Territory'attached to the Eastern
Judicial District of the State of Texas by the provisions of this
act, of which jurisdiction is not given by this act to the .court
herein established in the Indian Territory; and all civil process, issued against persons resident in the said counties of
Lamar, Fannin, -Red River and Delta, cognizable before the
United States courts, shall be made returnable to the courts,
respectively, to be held in the city of Paris, Texas. And all
prosecutions for offences committed in either of said last-ineitioned counties shall be tried in the division of said eastern
district of which said countnes form a part: _Povided, That
no process issued or pro.ecution commenced or suit instituted
before the passage of this a~t sh4l be in any 'way affected by
the provisions thereof."
"SEc. 28. That all laws and parts of laws inconsistent
with the provisions of this act be, kud the saine are hereby,
repealed."
Other sections prescribet.hemodes of procedure in the court
establish-ed by that act and the punishment for numerous
offences.
From this history 'of the Public Land-. Strip it appears:

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

1. That by the act of 1883 all of the "Indian Territory" north
of the Canadian River and east of Texas and the 100th meridian, not set apart and occupied by the Cherokee, Creek and
Seminole Indian tribes, was attached to the District of Kansas,
while the portion not so annexed and not set apart and occupied by the Cherokee, Creek, Choctaw, Chickasaw and Seminole Indian tribes, was annexed to the Northern District of
Texas, saving actions or proceedings pending in the Circuit or
District Court for the Western District of Arkansas. 2. That,
by the act of 1889, the court established for the Indian Territory was given exclusive original jurisdiction over all offences
against the laws of the United States committed within the
Indian Territory as defined by that act, not punishable by
death or by imprisohment at hard labor. 3. That exclusive
original jurisdiction was given by the act of 1889 to-the courts
of the United States, sitting.at Paris, Texas, of all such offences, committed wit hin the portion of the Indian Territory
annexed to the Eastern District. of that State, of which jurisdiction was not given to the court established in and for the
Indian Territory.
Much of the discussion by counsel was directed to the
inquiry whether the act of 1883 attached the Public Land
Strip to the Northern District of Texas. In view of the relations which certain Indian tribes once held to that strip, under
treaties with the United States - which treaties will be referred to in another connection -there are some reasons for
holding, in accordance with the contention of the government,
that it was so attached to that district. But it is not necessary to decide that point; for, however it might be determined, the question would remain whether the Public Land
Strip was not within that portion of the Indian Territory,
defined in the act of 1889,-which was assigned, by that act,
for certain judicial purposes, to the Eastern District of Texas.
If it was, the court below had jurisdiction of the offence
charged in the indictment, unless the latter act is construed as
having no application to offences committed prior to its passage. The act of 1883 is chiefly important in the present
inquiry as it may serve to explain the provisions of the act
of 1889.

COOK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion ' of the Court.

It is certain that after, as .well as before, the passage of the
act of 1883, various public officers and committees in Congress
described the "Indian Territory" as lying east of the 100th
meridian, and represented the Public Land Strip as being
unattached to any judicial district.' The most significant,
perhaps, of all the official documents of this class are the letter
of the Attorney General of the United States to the President
under date of November 15, 1887, and that of the Secretary
of the Treasury to the Speaker of the House of Representatives, under date of May 1, 1888. The former describes the
Public Land Strip as "bounded on the north by the States of
Kansas and Colorado, on the east by the Indian Territory, on
the south by Texas, and on the west by New Mexico," and
says that it was not thel. "embraced in any district established
by law of the United States." The latter, speaking of the
urgent need of legislation to enforce the revenue laws of the
United States in the Public Land Strip, says that "the land
referred to is not-embraced in any judicial district, and not
being within the jurisdiction of any United States court the
laws of the United States are inoperative, or, at least, cannot
be enforced therein."
The public documents to which reference has been made
undoubtedly show that, in the opinion of many gentlemen in
the legislative and executive branches of the government, the
"Indian Territory" did not extend further west than the one
hundredth meridian, and that, even after the passage of the
act of 1883 it remained unattached to any judicial district.
So that, if Congress intended by the act of 1883 to annex the
Public Land Strip to the Northern District of Texas, it was
informed by these documents that that act was not so con'Report of Commissioner of Indian Affairs, 1872, p. 33; Letter of Commissioner of General Land Office to Durant September 17, 1873, Rec. Com.Gen. Land Office, vol. 27, p. 301; Report of Land Commission, p. '462;
Report Com. Land Office, 1884; House Judiciary Committee, Rep: No.
2030, July 2, 1864; id. Report, Doc. No. 389, February 11, 1886, embodying
letter of Com'r Land Office of January 29, 1886; House Com. on Territories, 1887, Report No. 1684; id. 1888, Rep. No. 2857; id. February 7, 1888.
Rep. 263.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

strued by certain officers of the government. But it was
further informed that the public interests absolutely demanded
that that portion of the public domain should no longer remain
in the condition in which it had been left for many years,
namely, without being clearly included in some judicial district, whereby the rights of the general government, as well
as of individuals, could be enforced against criminals and
wrongdoers of every class. No possible reason can be suggested why, at the time of the passage of the act of 1889, the
Public Land Strip should not have been brought within some
judicial district.
Upon a careful scrutiny of the act of 1889, giving full effect
to all of its clauses, according to the reasonable meaning of
the words used, yet interpreting it in the light' of the previous
history of the Public Land Strip, and of the information communiiated to Congress by public officers, we do not doubt
that Congress intended to bring that strip within the jurisdiction of the court established for the IndiaA Territory, and to
attach it, for limited judicial purposes, to the Eastern District
of Texas; thus enabling the general government to protect its
own interests, as well as the rights of individuals. That act
was so interpreted by Mr. Justice Brewer before his accession
to this. Bench. 14 re Tacbeon, 40 Fed. IRep. 372. Observe,
that the country over which the court established by that act
was to exercise jurisdiction was not described as. being east of
the 100th meridian and south of Kansas, nor simply as the
Indian Territory, but, ex induetria, as the Indian Territory

bounded "north by the State of Kansas, [the southern line of
that State constituting about two-thirds of the northern boundary of Jhe Public Land Strip,] east by the States of Missouri
,and Arkansas, south by the State of Texas, and west by the
State of Texas and the Territoryof New .Mexico." If the act
had bounded it on the north by Kansas and Colorado, the description, beyond all question, would have included the Public
Land Strip. But the description, as it is, necessarily includes
that strip, because the. "Indian Territory," for which the new
court, to sit at Muscogee, was .established, being bounded on
the- nofth by Kansas, and4 west, in part, by "the Territory of

COOK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

New Mexico" -the
eastern boundary of which is on the
103d meridian- must include within its limits the Public
Land Strip, lying between New Mexico and the 100th meridian. This fact is of greater significance than the careless
omission to state, in the act, that the Indian, Territory, described in it, was bounded on the north by olorado as well
as by Kansas. The court at Muscogee was given exclusive
original jurisdiction over all offences against the United States,
not punishable by death or by imprisonment at hard labor,
committed, not simply within the Indian Territory, but within
the Indian Territory, "as in this [that] act.defined," while the
court *t Paris was given exclusive original jurisdiction of all
offences against the laws of the United States within the limits
of thba portion of the Indian Territory attadhed to the Eastern
Distribt of Texas "by the provisions of this [that] act," of
which jurisdiction was not givei -to the court at Muscogee.
If Congress did not iniuend to bring th6 Public Land Strip
within -the jurisdiction of the curt'etablis]ed for the Indian
Territory, and, for certain judicial purposes, within the jurisdiction of the'courts ield at Paris, in, the Eastern District of
Texas, why did it declarQ that the India4 Territory, for which
it legislated in the act of 1889, was bounded on the west "by.
the State of Texas and the Territory of New Mexico? " We
cannot hold the words, "and. the Terriory pf New Mexico,"
to te meaningless, simply because the nortthern boundary §f
that strip was 'not' descriJea with precisign. and fulness;
especially as every. consideration of piolidy demanded that
that part of the public domain should, not longer be left
without courts for the protection of the government and the
people.
It is dontended that this interpretation of the'words '" Idian Territory" in the act of 1889 is wholly unauthorized - y
anything in the history of the Publis Land Strip ; for, it 'is
said, that there ae no facts whatever that make those words
at all appropriate a embracing t]iit .strip. This broad statement is scarcely justifed -bythe facts. 'By the treaty of Julv
2 1853, made and concluded at Fort Atkinson, in the Indian
Territory, 10 .Stat. 1013 Detween- the Unit-State'-and teA.

OCTOBER TERMAl, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Camanche, Kiowa and Apache tribes or nations, "inhabiting
the said territory south of the Arkansas River," it was provided that the annuities stipulated to be given by the United
States should be delivered yearly in July to those tribes, collectively, at or in the vicinity of Beaver Creek, a large part of
which is within the Public Land Strip. By another treaty
with those tribes, October 18, 1865, 14 Stat. 717-721, the United
States agreed..that %certain district of country, or such parts
as the President should from time to time designate, should be
and was set apart for their "absolute and undisturbed use and
occupation," and that of "such other. friendly tribes" as had
theretofore "resided within said limits, or as they may from
time to time agree to admit among them, and that no white
person, except officers, agents and employ~s of the government, shall go upon or settle within the country embraced
within said limits, unless formally admitted and incorporated
into some one of the tribes lawfully residing there, according
to its laws and-usages." The houndaries of said distfict were:
"Commencing at the northeast corner of New Mexico ; thence
south to the southeast corner of the same; thence northeastwardly to a point on main Red River, opposite the mouth of
the north fork of said river.; thence down said river to the
98th degree of west longitude; thence due north on said meridian to the Cimarone River; thence up said river to a point
where the same crosses the southern boundary of the State of
Kansas; thence along said southern boundary of Kansas to the
southwest corner of said State; thence west to the place of beginning." These boundaries, it is true, included a part of the
State of Texas, and the treaty was, in that respect, ineffectual.
Nevertheless, the cession included the Public Land Strip, then
a part of the public domain of the United States. By a subse-quent treaty with two of the same tribes, concluded October
21, 1867, 15 Stat. 581, 584, they were restricted in territory to
the southwest corner of the Indian Territory, but they reserved
the right "to hunt on any lands south of the Arkansas River,
so long as the buffalo may range thereon in such numbers as to
justify the chase." These' treaties are referred to as-showing
tnat as late as 1867 the Public Land Strip, in the mode of its

COOK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

use, had some connection with Indians west of the Mississippi,
and especially with some of those now occupying permanent
reservations in the Indian Territory. That strip, we are informed, has not been occupied. by Indians since 1867, but it
was not opened to settlement, and could have been used for
any of the purposes that the government had in view for
Indians.
There are other circumstances that are not without significance as indicating why Congress in the act of 1889 used the
word3 "Indian Territory," as describing not only lands east of
the 100th meridian, south of Kansas, but lands north of Texas
and between that meridian and New Mexico. Among them
the following may be named: 1. To a report of the commissioner of the general land office, made in 1864, was annexed
a map, "constructed from the Public Surveys and other official sources in the general land office," in which the Public
Land Strip is included within the boundaries of the Indian Territory; and a similar map, "constructed from the plats and
official sources of the general land office," under the direction of Commissioner Wilson, was issued in 1867. 2. By an
act of March 2, 1887, Congress granted a right of way through
the "Indian Territory" to a railroad company, beginning at
a point on the northern line of said Territory at or near the
south line of Kansas, crossed by the 101st meridian; thence in
a southwesterly direction to El Paso, New Mexico. It could
not commence at the point designated and reach El Paso by a
southwesterly line without passing through the Public Land
Strip. Unless that strip was, for the purposes of that act,
regarded as a part of the Indian Territory, then the route to
El .Paso would not pass through the Indian Territory at all.
3. By the treaty of May 6, 1828, with the Cherokee Indians
the United States, besides setting apart for the use of that
tribe 7,000,000 acres within the limits of the Indian Territory,
guaranteed to that nation "a perpetual outlet west, and free
and unmolested use of all the country lying west of the western
boundary" of the limits given, "and as far west as the sovereignty of the United States and their right of soil extend." In
an official communication from the commissioner of the land
VOL. C x=xxv-12

178

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
O iuion of the Court.

office to the Secretary of the Interior, under date of January
29, 1886, embodet in a'report made on the 11th of February,
1$86, by the Judiciary dommittee of the House of iRepresentatives, upon a proposed bill extending the laws of the United
States over certaln "uhorganized territory south of Kansas,"
it was said : "It.appehrs that the Cherokees claimed the public Land Strip, now so called, as the outlet above, mentioned,
and the official maps down to 1869, or later, designated said
strip as part of the Indian Territory. 'I have not found
in the records, of this office any expressed reason why this
strip was so designated on the maps, nor ,why that designation was changed upon: the maps published after 1869." The
commissioner recommended the passage of the proposed bill,
because it would take this "unorganized territory out of its
anomalous condition to a certain extent and open the lands to
entry."
These circumstances are referred to not as conclusive, nor,
as in themselves, persuasive, but only to show that the Public
Land Strip was regarded, at different- time, by public officers
to be part of the Indian Territory, as commonly designated,
or as having such connection with the lands east of the 100th
meridian, where various tribes of Indians had been located by
the United States, as made it natural that it should be placed,
together with the lands between that meridian and the States
of Missouri and Arkansas, not occupied by the civilized Indian
tribes, under th6 jurisdiction of the court established by the
act of 1889, or of some other court of the United States. Congress, it must be presumed, was not unaware of the fact that
the words "Indian Territory" had been used by some to
-xclude, and by others to include, the Public JLand Strip, and,
to avoid misapprehension as to whether that strip was annexed
to some judicial district, and, perhaps, for the purpose of
meeting the recommendation of the Secretary of the Treasury in his letter of May 1, 1888, it speaks, in the act of 1889,
of the Indian Territory, not generally, but as therein deojned.
That description, we have seen, necessarily included the Public Land Strip, because it was the only part of the public
'domain in that part of the United States that was bounded on

COOK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the north by Kansas, as well as on the west by the Territory of New Mexico, and which immediately adjoined the
Indian Territory lying east of the 100th meridian.
Much was said at the bar about the unreasonableness of the
supposition that Congress intended to subject the people in
the Public Land Strip to the jurisdiction of a court sitting at
so great a distance as Paris, Texas, rather than to one at Graham, in the Northern District of Texas,. or one at Wichita, in
Kansas. Judging by the map, the distance from the Public
Land Strip to Paris is not much greater than to Graham.
Indeed, the facilities for reaching Paris may be quite as good
as those for reaching Graham. While the court of the United
States nearest to the Public Land Strip, other than the one at
Muscogee, seems to be the District Court of Kansas, this fact
cannot control, as against the natura~l meaning of the words
of the act.
Nor do we think that the interpretation of the act of 1889
can or ought to be affected by that of 18"9, providing a temporary government for the Territory of Oklahoma, and enlarging the jurisdiction of the United States court in the Indian
Territory. Oklahoma, by that act, is made to include "all
that portion of the United States now known as the Indian
TerritoiT, except

.

.

.

and except the unoccupied part of

the Cherokee outlet, together with that portion of the United
States known as the Public Land Strip." The boundary of the?
country " now known as the Indian Terfitbry" and included in
said Territory of Oklahoma is given, 'and the Public Land Strip
is, separately, bounded "east by the 10th meridian, south -by
Texas, west by New Mexico, and north by Colorado and Kansas."
This may be regarded at most as sfmply a declaration by Congress that the country then "known as the Indian Territory"
did not include the Public Land Strip, and, therefore, that each
should be separately described by its boundaries. But that
does not prove that Congress did not intend, in 1889, t include
the Public Laud Strip in the "Indian Territory," as deftned by
the act of that year. On the contrary, the Oklahoma act, when
it bounds that Strip on the "west by New Mexico," tends to
show that substantially similar words used in describing the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Indian Territory mentioned in the act of 1889, had reference
to the Public Land Strip.
Looking at this question in every light in which it may be
considered, we repeat the expression of our opinion that the
Public Land Strip, west of the 100th meridian, bounded on
the south by Texas, on the west by New Mexico, and on the
north by Colorado and Kansas, was annexed by the act of
1889 to the Eastern District of Texas for such judicial purposes as by that act appertained to the court held at Paris in
.that District.
Was it competent for the court below to try the defendants
for the offence of muider committed prior to the passage of
the act of 1889 ? We do not doubt that Congress intended to
confer upon that court jurisdiction to try such cases. By the
express words of the act, the courts to be held at Paris, Texas,
were given exclusive original jurisdiction of "all offences committed against the laws of the United States" within that
part of the Indian Territory attached to the Eastern Judicial
District of Texas, of which jurisdiction was not given, by the
same act, to the court established for that Territory. The
only exception made is in the proviso to the eighteenth section,
declaring, among other things, that no prosecution commenced
before the passage of the act should be in any way affected
by its provisions. This, in connection with the previous part
of the. same section, defining the jurisdiction of the court
below, necessarily imports that where no prosecution had been
commenced, it should have authority to try all offences, punishable by death or imprisonment at hard labor, committed,
no matter When, within the new territory over which its jurisdiction was extended. No other interpretation can be reasonably given to the act. If the Public Land Strip was placed
by the act of 1883 in the Northern District of Texas, or if the
defendants, having been apprehended in Kansas, were amenable, prior to the act of 1889, to the District Court in that
State, the jurisdiction of the United States court of neither of
those di§tricts had attached, by the commencement of a prosecution, before that strip was annexed to the Eastern District
of Texas. I In so interpreting the act of Congress we do not

COOK v. UITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

infringe the settled rule that courts uniformly refuse to give
to statutes a retrospective operation, where rights previously
vested are injuriously affected, unless compelled to do so by
language so clear and positive as to leave no room to doubt
that such was the intention of the legislature. United States
v. Ileth, 3 Cranch, 399, 413; hew Ileong v. United States,
112 U. S. 536, 559. The saving of only pending prosecutions
shows that Congress did not except any offence against the
United States of which the court below was given jurisdiction.
It is contended that the act, so construed, is in violation of
section two, article three, of the Constitution, supplemented
by the Sixth Amendment. The former provides that "the
trial of all crimes, except in cases of impeachment, shall be by
jury; and such trial shall be held in the State where the said
crimes shall have been committed; but when not committed
within any State, the trial shall be at such place or places as the
Congress may by law have directed." The latter provides: "In
all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to
a speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury of the State
and district wherein the crime shall have been committed,
which district shall have been previously ascertained by law."
In respect to that clause' of the Sixth Amendment declaring
that the "district shall have been previously ascertained by
law," it need only be said that if those words import immunity from prosecution where the district is not ascertained by
law before the commission of the offence, or that the accused
can only be tried in the district in which the offence was coTinitted, (such district having been established before the offence
was committed,) that ,.nendment has reference only to offences
against the United States committed within a State. United
States v. Dawson, 15 How. 467, 487, 488; Jones v. United
States, 137 U. S. 202, 211, 212. The second section of article
three had provided, in respect to crimes committed in the
States, that the trial by jury should be had within tle State
where the crime was committed. The Sixth Amendment
added the further guaranty, in respect to the place of trial,
that the district should have been previously ascertained by
law, leaving the trial of offences not committed within any

OCTOBER TER-M, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

State, to be controlled by the second section of article three.
The requirement in the latter 'section is that -the trial "shall
be at such place or places as the Congress may by law have"
directed."' "As crimes," said Mr. Justice Story, commenting
upon this section, "may be committed on the high seas and
elsewhere, out of the territorial jurisdiction of a State, it was
indispensable that in such cases Congress should be enabled to
provide the place of trial." 2 Story's Const. § 1781. It was
consequently prbvided, in the act of April 30,,1790, 1 Stat.
111, c. 9, § 8,'that "the trial of crimes committed on the high
seas, or in any place put of the jurisdiction of any particular
State, shall be in the district where the offender is apprehended, or into which he may first be broughtl And such
was the law when the crime with which the defendants are
charged was committed. IRev. Stat. §§ 730, 5339. But for
the passage of the act of 1889, and if the Public Land Strip
was not attached by the act of 1883 to the Northern District
of Texas, the defendants could have been indicted and tried
in the District of Kansas, where' they were apprehended.
Jones v. United States, above cited. So that the contention of
the defendants is, in effect, that in respect to crimes committed
outside of the States, in some place within the exclusive jurisdiction of the.United States, Congress is forbidden by the second"section of article three of the Constitution from providing
a place of trial different from the one in which the accused
might have been tried at the time the offence was committed.
We do not so interpret that. section. The words, "the trial
shallbe at such place or places as the Congress may by law
have directed,"' impose no restriction as to the place of trial,
except that the trial cannot occur until Congress designates
the place, and may occur at any place which shall have been
designated by Congress previous to the trial. This was evid6ntly the construction placed upon this section, in United
States v. Dawson, above cited, where' the. court, speaking by
Mr. Justice Nelson, sai : "A crime, therefore, committed
against the laws of the United States, out of the limits of a
State, is not local, but may be tried at such place as Congress
slfiall.designate bylaw. This furnishes an answer to the argu-

COOK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

ment against the jurisdiction of the court, as it respects venue,
trial in the county, and jury from the vicinage, as well as in
respect to the necessity of particular or fixed districts before
the offence." p. 488. So, in United Sta8 v. Jackalow, 1
Black, 484, 486: "Crimes committed against the laws of tbe
United States, out of the limits of a State, are not local1 but
may be tried at such place as Congress shall designate by law;
but are local if committed within the State. They must then
be tried in the district in which the, offence was committed?
If Congress-as it did in the act of 1790, which may be
regarded as a contemporaneous construction of the Constitution- may provide for the trial of offences committed outside
of the States, in whatever district the accused is apprehended,
or into which he may first be brought, it is difficult to perceive
why, such crimes not being local, it may not provide a place
of trial where none was provided When th6 offence was committed, or change the place of trial after the commission of
the offence.
It is said that the construction -weplace upon the second
section of article three makes it obnoxious to the exyostfacto
clause of the Constitution. In support of this position reference is made to 'ringv. .Afi&wouri, 107 U. S. 221, where it
was declared that any statute passed after the- commission of
an offence which, "in relation to that offence or its consequences, alters the situation of a party to his disadvantage,"
is an expostfacto law. This principle has no application to
the present case. The act of 1889 does not touch the offence
nor change the punishment therefor. It only includes the
place of the commission of the alleged offence within a particular judicial district, and subjects the accused to trial in that
district rather than in the court of some other judicial district
established by the government against whose laws the offence
was committed. This does not alter the situation of the
defendants in respect to their offence or its consequences.
"An expostfato law," this court said in Gut v. The State, 9
Wall. 35, 38, "does not involve, in any of its definitions,_ a
change of the place of trial of an alleged offence after its
commission."

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.
Anotner contention of the defendants is that the indictment
is fatally defective, in that it fails to sufficiently show when
Cross - the person alleged to have been murdered - died, or
that he died within a year and a day from the infliction upon
him of the alleged mortal wounds, or from-the effect of such
wounds, or within the territory in the jurisdiction of the court
in which they were tried. As the Attorney General and the
Solicitor General submit this question without argument, and
without any suggestion in support of the indictment, and as
the judgment must, for reasons to be presently stated, be
reversed, leaving the government at liberty to find a new
indictment, if its offices shall be so advised, we will not extend this opinion by an examination of the authorities cited
by the defendants to show the present indictment to be defective.
At the trial below, one of the defendants' counsel, who had
been attorney general of Kansas, and who, in that capacity,
made to the governor of that State a report touching the death
of Cross immediately after it occurred, was called, in rebuttal,
as a witness for the prosecution. That report contained
various statements purporting to have been made by the
defendants, and which connected them with the killing of
Crpss. Although the witness stated that the report was based
upon hearsay evidence merely, was thrown together hastily by
a stenographer, and was incorrect, and that the defendants
had not m 'e the statements therein attributed to them, certain parts of it were admitted in evidence to the jury, against
the objection of the defendants. The record shows that this
report was read in evidence to show that the witness had made
different statements at another time and place. And the
court, in its charge, said to the jury: "The instructions given
above are limited, so far as the evidence is concerned, by the
following instructions: The portions of Attorney General
Bradford's report were admitted in evidence to be considered
by you as to whether or not the statements therein contained
were made by the parties to said Bradford, said Bradford now
being attorney for the defendants, and denying the truth of
the statemdnts therein contained; and as to whether 6r not

CHICAGO & SANTA F2 RAILROAD v. PRICE.

185

Syllabus.

these statements were ever made to said Bradford, is a question of fact to be considered "by you from all the evidence
upon that subject; and if you believe the statements were not
so made to said Bradford, you are to disregard the same. But
if you believe from the evidence that they were so made to
said Bradford, then you are instructed to consider them as
evidence, but only as to such parties by whom they were
made."
The jury were thus informed that this report, although
merely hearsay, was substantive evidence upon the issue as to
whether the defendants were present at, and participated in,
the killing. The representatives of the government, in this
court, frankly concede, as it was their duty to do, that this
action of the court below was so erroneous as to entitle the
defendants to a reversal. Numerous other errors are said to
have been committed at the trial to the prejudice of the
defendants, but as such alleged errors may not be committed
at the next trial, it is not necessary now to consider them.
For the error above mentionid t/e judgment is reversed, and
the cause remanded 'with directions to grant a new trial.

CHICAGO, SANTA FE AND CALIFORNIA RAILROAD
COMPANY v. PRICE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

NORTItERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 1456.

Submitted January 8,1891.-

Decided January 26, 1891.

Where a contract with a railway company for construction work provided
for monthly payments to the contractor, " on the certificate of the"
engineer," and that the determination of the chief engineer should be
conclusive on the parties as to quantities and amounts, and where, in
executing the contract each monthly account as made up by the division
engineer was sent to the chief engineer, and.the monthly payments were
made on the certificate of the latter officer; his action in making such
certificate was held to be a "determination - under the contract, conclusive upon the parties in an action at law, in the absence of fraud, or
of such gross error as to imply bad faith.

