CHICAGO & SANTA F2 RAILROAD v. PRICE.

185

Syllabus.

these statements were ever made to said Bradford, is a question of fact to be considered "by you from all the evidence
upon that subject; and if you believe the statements were not
so made to said Bradford, you are to disregard the same. But
if you believe from the evidence that they were so made to
said Bradford, then you are instructed to consider them as
evidence, but only as to such parties by whom they were
made."
The jury were thus informed that this report, although
merely hearsay, was substantive evidence upon the issue as to
whether the defendants were present at, and participated in,
the killing. The representatives of the government, in this
court, frankly concede, as it was their duty to do, that this
action of the court below was so erroneous as to entitle the
defendants to a reversal. Numerous other errors are said to
have been committed at the trial to the prejudice of the
defendants, but as such alleged errors may not be committed
at the next trial, it is not necessary now to consider them.
For the error above mentionid t/e judgment is reversed, and
the cause remanded 'with directions to grant a new trial.

CHICAGO, SANTA FE AND CALIFORNIA RAILROAD
COMPANY v. PRICE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

NORTItERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 1456.

Submitted January 8,1891.-

Decided January 26, 1891.

Where a contract with a railway company for construction work provided
for monthly payments to the contractor, " on the certificate of the"
engineer," and that the determination of the chief engineer should be
conclusive on the parties as to quantities and amounts, and where, in
executing the contract each monthly account as made up by the division
engineer was sent to the chief engineer, and.the monthly payments were
made on the certificate of the latter officer; his action in making such
certificate was held to be a "determination - under the contract, conclusive upon the parties in an action at law, in the absence of fraud, or
of such gross error as to imply bad faith.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

This action was brought by Price, McGavock & Co., for the
use of Jones, Forrest & Bodkin, to recover from the Chicago,
Santa F6 and California Railroad Company the balance alleged to be due them under a written contract, made March
21, 1887, for the clearing, grubbing and masonry necessary
to complete the road-bed of that company from a point on
the Mississippi River to Galesburg, Illinois, adistance of about
fifty "miles. The parties in writing waived a jury and tried
the case before the court, which made a special finding of
facts.1 There was a judgment against the railroad company.
38 Fed. Rep. 304.
1 The court, from the testimony in the case, finds the following facts, to
wit:
That on the 21st day of March, A. D. 1887, the plaintiffs and the defendant
entered into a contract in writing, as set forth in the foregoing bill of exceptions, by which the plaintiffs agreed to do all the clearing, grubbing and
masonry necessary to complete the road-bed of the defendant from the bank
of the Mississippi River to Galesburg, a distance of about fifty miles; that
on the 21st day of March, A. D. 1887, the plaintiffs entered into a contract
with Jones, Forrest & Bodkin, which is in terms as set forth in the foregoing bill of exceptions, and that the parties have stipulated in writing as set
forth in the bill of exceptions, and that the defendant was at all times aware
that the plaintiffs had made the said agreement with Jones, Forrest & Bodkin
and never objected thereto.
The court further finds that the work'covered by the contract was, for
the purppse of construction, divided by the defendant into four divisions,
and that the work of each division was by the defendant put in charge of
an assistant or division engineer, who was employed by the defendant and
acted under the general direction of the chief engineer of the defendant.
The court further finds that the plaintiffs, through Jones, Forrest & Bodkin and their sub-contractors, performed the said work according to the
terms of the said contract, and that the same has been accepted and taken
possession of by the said defendant.
The court further finds that shortly after the entering into of said con-

tract between Jones, Forrest & Bodkin and the plaintiffs the said Jones,
Forrest & Bodkin sub-let all of the work on division 9 except a portion of
section 119 (respecting which section there is no controversy between the
parties in this suit), and that according to the said contract of sub-letting
the said sub-contractors were to receive from Jones, Forrest & Bodkin 90
per cent of what was coming to Jones, Forrest & Bodkin according to their
contract with the plaintiffs.
The court further finds that the said sub-contractors performed their
work under the charge of the division engineers; that upon the first of each

OHICAGO & SANTA FV RAILROAD v. PRICk.

187

Statement of the Case.

The contract contained, among other provisions, the follow-

ing:
month each division engineer made up and forwarded to the assistant chief
engineer a paper showing his estimate of the work done on each section of
his divisi6n, both according to its quantities and classifications, upon which
were computed and extended in the office of the said assistant chief engineer the aggregate amounts coming to said plaintiffs, under the terms of
the said contract, to the beginning of said month; that said papers wre
headed ,, monthly estimate" and bore the attestation of the division engineers, and were approved by the assistant chief engineer and chief engineer;
that said'certifieates were all in form identical with the one set forth in the
preceding bill of exceptions; that from month to month tissue copies of
said certificates were delivered to the plaintiffs and payment made for the
amount thereby shown to be coming to them, less 10 per cent reserved
under the contract and less previous payments made; that each month the
defendant sent to the division engineers in the field tissue copies of said
certificates; that the plaintiffs sent their said tissue 'copies of said ce'rtificates to Jones, Forrest & Bodkin, together with their check for the amount
coming due to them under the contract; that thereupon Jones, Forrest &
Bodkin from time to time paid to their sub-contractors the amounts coming
due to them according to the quantities and classifications of said certificates, and that the defendant had knowledge that the plaintiffs were paying
Jones, Forrest & Bodkin, and that said Jones, Forrest & Bodkin were from
time to time paying to their sub-contractors in accordance with said certificates.
The court finds that Dressier, the division engineer of division 9, sent in
his last month's paper on November 1st, and that his successor, Baker, sent
in a monthly paper on division 9 on December 1, which was the last month's
paper on that division and which paper adopted Dressler's figures as shown
in his last monthly paper and added something thereto for work done subsequently.
The court further finds-that the work under said contract was substantially completed, with the exception of a small amount of grading, before
the last of said monthly papers was so made up and sent to the plainMffs,
and that said plaintiffs paid what was coming to Jones, Forrest & Bodvin
accordipg to.the slhowing of said last monthly certificate, and Jones, F~rrest & Bodkin, in reliance upon the correctness of said certificAte, paid to
their sub-contractors on division 9 (that being the only division here in dispute) what was coming to them in accordance with the showing of said
last monthly certificate, except in the case of one of their sub-contractors
who was paid $880.00 less and another sub-contractor who was paid about
$500.00 less than said certificate shows to have been coming, a portion of
which was for work on division 9 and a portion for work on division 10,
respecting which division 10 there is no dispute, but there is no evidence
showing what exact portion o? said $880.00 and. $500.00 belonged to division

OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

"The aforesaid party of the first Ipart, [Price, McGavock &
Co.,] in consideration of the prices hereinafter agreed to be
9, and what portion to division 10; that such payments by Jones, Forrest &
Bodkin to their sub-contractors were made at various times down to January
12, 1888, but were all made before Jones, Forrest & Bodkin had any knowledge of Baker's remeasurements, hereinafter mentioned, or of any claim on
the part of the defendant that Dressler's estimates were erroneous.
The court further finds that some time after the last of these monthly
certificates was delivered to the plaintiffs one George T. Baker, who had
had charge of division 7, made certain remeasurements and reclassifications
of the work done in divisions 8 and 9; that the work on these two divisions
prior to November 26th had not been done under the supervision of said
Baker, but was done under the supervision of one F. F. Ames and R. Dressler respectively, and that said Baker embodied the results of his remeasurements and reclassifications in the estimate called the final estimate; which
said estimate was approved by the assistant engineer-in-chief and the engineer-in-chief, and delivered to the plaintiffs in M2arch, 1888.
The court further finds that the said re~stimate and reclassification so
made largely changed the quantities and classifications of the work done on
division 9 from the showing of quantities and classifications of said division
made in the several monthly certificates, including the one made after the
substantial completion of the work as aforesaid; that said reclassification
and remeasurement of said Baker were made without the co6peration or
knowledge of the plaintiffs or their sub-contractors, and that the plaintiffs
had paid to Jones, Forrest &-Bodkin, and Jones, Forrest & Bodkin had
made payments to their sub-contractors under their said contracts, as above
set forth, and according to the quantities and classifications shown by the
monthly certificates before either of them had knowledge of said Baker's
remeasurements and reclassifications.
The court further finds that the said last monthly certificate of the work
on division 9 could, with reasonable care upon the part of the division engineer, have been made nearly accurate, and that upon the assumption of the
correctness of said Baker's so-called final esthnate the discrepancy between
it and the said certificate could be the result only of negligence or incompetency upon the part of the division engineer in charge of said division
unless the said division engineer was purposely dishonest; but the court
finds that-there was no proof of dishonesty in which the plaintiffs or their
sub-contractors took any part or of which they had any knowledge.
The court further finds that the effect of the said monthly certificates of
quantities and classifications of work done on division 9 was to cause the
plaintiffs to pay to Jones, Forrest & Bodkin more on account of each of said
certificates than they would have paid if said certificates had been made
according to the remeasurement and reclassification of said Baker, and
Jones, Forrest & Bodkin in turn to pay more to their sub-contractors than
they would have paid if the said monthly certificates had been made accord-

CHICAGO & SANTA FE RAILROAD v. PRICE.

189

Statement of the Case.

paid to them by the party of the second part, [the railroad
company,] hereby agree and bind themselves to construct and
in every respect to complete the grubbing and clearing, grading and masonry, including the furnishing of materials and
all other things requisite and necessary to complete the roadbed and prepare the same ready fov receiving the superstructure, upon that portion of the railroad of the party of
the second part known and designated as section-, number
-, the first fifty (50) miles eastward from station thirty (30),
east bank of M,ississippi River, of the Chicago, Sante F6 and
California Railway, in such a manner as will conform in every
respect to the annexed specifications' and to the following
conditions, viz.:
"1st. That the work shall be commenced within ten (10)
days after the execution of- these presents, or as soon after as
the railway company shall have acquired a title to the lands,
and shall be completed on or before the first day of August,
one thousand eight hundred and eighty-seven.
"2d. The work shall be executed under the direction and
supervision of the chief engineer of said railway company and
his assistants, by whose measurements and calculations the
quantities and amounts of the several kinds of work performed
under this contract shall be determined and whose determination shall be conclusive upon the parties, and who shall have
full power to reject or condemn all work or materials which
in his or their opinion do not fully conform to the spirit of
ing to Baker's remeasurement and reclassification; so that if the plaintiffs
are to be paid for the entire work according, to the revision made by Baker
they will be the losers to the extent of the errors said to have been corrected
on division 9.
The court further finds that according to the said estimate of Bake,
upon the divisions other than division 9, there is a balance due to the plaintiffs from the defendant of $17,351.68, and that- on the basis of the last
monthly certificate of Dressler on division 9, viz., the certificate of November 1st, as above set forth, there is a balance due on that division of
$11,586.48, in which amount is included so much of the sums of $880.00 and
8500.00 as is applicable to division 9, as above referred to.
The court therefore finds in favor of the plaintiffs for the amount of
$28,938.16.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

this agreement; and said chief engineer shall decide every
question which can or may arise between the parties relative
to the execution thereof, and his decision shall be binding and
final upon both .parties; and whereas the classification of
excavation provided for in the annexed specifications is of a
character that makes it necessary that special attention should
be called tb it, it is expressly agreed by the parties to this
*contract that the determination, by the measurements and
calculations of the said engineer, of the respective quantities
of such excavation shall be-final and conclusive."
"5th. If any damage shall be done by the party of the first
part (or persons in their employ) to the owners or occupants
of lands or other property adjoining or in the vicinity of the
work. herein contracted to be done the engineer of said company shall have the right to estimate the amount af said
damage and to pay the same to said owner or occupant, and
the amount so paid for such damage shall be deducted from
the value of work done under this contract."
"The aforesaid party of the second part hereby agrees that
whenever this contract shall be completely performed on the
part of the said party of the first part, and the engineer has
certified the same in writing, the said party of-the second part
shall, within ten days thereafter, pay to said party of the first
part any remaining sums due for said work, according to this
contract, as follows, to wit: [Here follow the prices agreed
upon for different kinds of work to be done.]"
"It is further agreed between the parties that monthly payments shall be made by the party of the second part, on the
certificte of the engineer, for work done, deducting ten per
cent fr6m the value of work done, as agreed compensation for
damages, to be forever retained by the party of the second
part in case the whole amount of work herein named shall
not be done in accordance with this agreement.
"For the purpose of avoiding all causes of difference or dispute between the parties to this contract relative to its true

CHICAGO & *SANTA F3

RAILROAD v. PRICE.

191

Statement of the Case.

intent or meaning, and for the purpose of adjusting in an
amicable manner any difference that may or can arise relative
thereto, it is hereby mutually understood and agreed by the
parties as follows, to wit:
"1. No extra charges will be claimed or allowed on account
-of changes, either in the line or grade of the road, the prices
herein mentioned being considered as full compensation for
the various kinds of work herein agreed to be performed.
"2. -Whenever work is required to be done which is not now
contemplated or covered by the prices herein mentioned the
engineer shall fix such prices for the work as he shall consider
just and equitable, and the said parties shall abide by such
prices, provided the party of the first part enter upon and
commence such work with full knowledge of the prices so fixed
by the engineer;, but if the party of the first part decline
executing said work at the price fixed by the engineer, then
the party of the second part may enter into contract with any
person or persons for its execution, the same as if this contract
had never existed; and if extra work, or work not provided
for in this contract, is performed by the contractors, without
protest or notice in writing to the engineer and to the party
-of the second part before prices shall have bedn fixed to such
work, then the engineer shall estimate the same at such prices
as he shall deem just and reasonable, and his decision shall be
final, and the party of the first part shall accept of said prices
in full 'atisfaction of all demands against the party of. the
second part for said extra work; but nothing shall be deemed
extra work that can be measured or estimated under the provisions of this contract."
"5. It is expressly agreed by the party of the first part tnat
the party of the second part may at any time pay so much of
the money due the party of the first part on the running or
final estimates above mentioned to the laborers employed by
the party, of the first part as may be due said laborers and
charge the same to the party of the first part.
"6. In case any or all work embraced in this contract- shall
be permanently suspended by and on account of the party of

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the second part, which it is hereby agreed the party of the
second part may do, for other causes than heretofore provided
in this contract, then in that case all further operations under
this contract shall be suspended within three days after receiving written notice from the party of the second part requiring
the. further progress of the work to be suspended, and the
party of the first part shall have their choice either to consider
such suspension temporary and resume work on the same
within ten days after receiving notice to resume work, or may
consider the same at an end, and shall receive full pay for all
work by them performed under this contract, and at the prices
herein stipulated, upon the estimate of the engineer, which
shall be final and conclusive between the parties to this contract; which estimates shall not include any anticipated profits
that might have accrued from the completion of the said work,
it being understood that no claim for damages shall be made
by the party of the first part on account of any profits that
might accrue from the completion of the same."
-Yr.NYorman. Williams and Xr.. Chakles S. -7olt for plaintiff
in error.

The final estimate of the chief engineer, if properly made,
is the measure of the plaintiff's rights, and is conclusive. .Herrick v. ielknap, 27 Vermont, 673; 2fartinslurg & Potomac
Railroad v. 2farch, 114 U. S. 549; Snell v. Brown, 71 Illinois,
133; -MlonongahelaNYavigaion Co. v. Fenlon, 4 W. & S. 205;
Sweet v. .3forriso , 116 N. Y. 19.
The court having refused to consider the final estimate, not
because it was incorrect, but on the ground that the company
had no right to make any final estimate at all, the judgment
should be reversed.
Mr. P. S. Grosscup for defendants in error.
MR. JUsTicE HaAw, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The written contract between the parties in this case does
not materially differ from the one before this court in Jlartinsbrg & Potomac Railroad Co. v. March, 114 U. S. 549, 553.

CHICAGO & SANTA F2 RAILROAD v. PRICE.

193

Opinion of uhe Court.

In that case the contractor did not allege in his declaration
that the engineer ever certified in writing the complete performance of the contract, together with an estimate of the
work done and the amount of compensation due him according to the prices established by the parties; which certificate
and estimate was made by the agreement a condition of the
liability of the company to pay the contractor the balance, if
any, due him. Nor did the declaration allege any facts which,
in the absence of such a certificate by the engineer whose
determination was made final and conclusive, entitled the contractor to sue the company on the contract. It wvas held, in
accordance with the principles announced in Zihlberg v. United States, 97 U. S. 398, and Sweeney v. lJnited States, 109 U.
S. 618, that the declaration was fatally defective in that it
contained "no averment that the engineer had been guilty of
fraud, or had made such gross mistake in his estimates as necessarily implied bad faith, or had failed to exercise an honest
judgment in discharging the duty imposed upon him." Some
observations in that case are pertinent in the present one. It
was said: "We are to presume from the terms of the contract
that both parties considered the possibility of disputos arising
between them in reference to the execution- of the contract.
And it is to be presumed that in their minds was the possibility that the engineer might err in his determination of such
matters. Consequently, to the end that the interests of neither
party should be put in peril by disputes as to any of the matters covered by their agreement, or in reference to the quantity of the work to be done under it, or the compensation
which the plaintiff might be entitled to demand, it was expressly stipulated that the engineer's determination should be
final and conclusive. Neither party ieserved the right ta
revise that determination for mere errors or mistakes upon his
part. They chose to risk his estimates, and to rely upon their
right, Vhich the law presumes they did not intend to waive,
to demand that the engineer should, at all times, and in respect
to every matter submitted to his determination, exercise an
honest judgment, and commit no such mistakes as, under all
the circumstances, would imply bad faith."
VOL. cxxxvm-13

194

OCTOBER TERTM, 1890.
Opinion. of the Court.

The only difference between that case and 'tie present one
is that the alleged mistakes of the engineer in the former were
favorable to the railroad company, while in this case they are
favorable to the contractors. But that difference cannot affect
the interpretation of the contract. In the present case the
agreement was that the work should be executed under the
direction and supervision of the chipf engineer of the railroad
company and his assistants, by wh6e measurements and calculations the quantities and amounts of the several kinds of
work should be determined, and "whose determination shall
be conclusive upon the, parties." Any decision of the chief
engineer relating .to the execution of the contract was to be
"binding and final upon both parties." His measurements
and calculations as to excavations were made "final and conclusive."
What are the substantial facts found by the, court below?
The work was in four divisions, each division being in charge
of an assistant or division engineer, who abcfdd under the general direction of the chief engineer. The agreement provided
for monthly payments to the contractor, on the certificate of
the engineer, "for work done ;" ten per cent from the value
thereof to be retained by the company until the whole work
was completed in accordance, with the contract. - The work
was under the immediate supervision of the division engineer.
On the first day of each month he made up and forwarded to
the assistant chief engineer an estimate of work done on each
section of his division, according to 'quantities and classifications. Upon such estimates the assistant chief engineer ascertained the amount due the contractor to the beginning of the
month. These monthly estimates were approved by both the
assistant chief engineer and chief engineer. This course was
pursued until the work was substantially completed, and was
accepted and taken possession of by the company. Subsequently, without the knowledge or coi5peration of the contractors, Baker, a subordinate engineer of the railroad company, who had not supervised the work of the plaintiffs,
re~stimated and reclassified it, and upon such regstimate and
reclassification, which were approved by the chief engineer,

CHICAGO & SANTA FE RAILROAD v. PRICE.

195

Opinion of the Court.

the company claimed that the monthly estimates upon which
the plaintiffs had been paid from time to time were much too
large.
We are of opinion that the ultimate facts, as found by the
court, do not authorize the railroad company to go behind
the estimates from time to time by its division engineer, which
were approved and certified by the assistant chief engineer
and chief engineer. Within a reasonable interpretation of
the contract, the last monthly estimate of work done on
division nine, (that being the only division here in dispute,)
followed by the acceptance by the company of the whole
work, was a certificate of complete performance entitling tle
plaintiff to be paid in full according to the terms of the contract. While there was evidence tending to show that the
estimates by the division engineer, upon which the last monthly
certificate was based, were not made up from actual measurements on the ground, but from reports by subcontractors,
there was, also, evidence tending to show that the remeasurements and reclassifications which the company caused to be
made after the completion and acceptance of the work, and
which it calls the "final estimate," were inaccurate. But
there is no fact distinctly found indicating fraud upon the part
of the company's engineers, or such gross mistakes by them as
imply bad faith. It is found only that the monthly estimates
might, with reasonable care, have been made nearly accurate,
and that, if the remeasurements and reclassifications were correct, the discrepancy between them and the monthly estimates,
upon which the plaintiffs were paid from time to time, could
be explained only upon the ground of negligence, incompetency or dishonesty upon the part of the division engineer.
But the court did not find that the m6nthly estimates were
inaccurate, or that the chief or division engineer was dishonest,
or that the subsequent remeasurement and reclassification were
correct. The mere incompetency or mere negligence of the
division or chief engineer does not meet the requirements of the
case, unless their mistakes were so gross as to imply bad faith.
We are of opinion that the judgment is supported by the
.Affmed.
finding of facts, and'it is

