OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

WATERMAN v. MACKENZIE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No, 82: Argued November 19, 1890.-Decided February 2,1891.

An agreement, by which the owner of a patent for an invention grants to
another person "the sole and exclusive right and license to manufacture
and sell " the patented article throughout the United States, (not expressly
authorizing him to use it,) is not an assignment, but a license, and gives
the licensee no right in his own name to sue a third person, at law or in
equity, for an infringement of the atent.
The mortgagee of a patent, by assignment recorded within three months
from its date in the patent office, is the party entitled (unless otherwise
provided in the mortgage) to maintain a bill in equity against an infringer
of the patent.

TIs was a bill in equity, filed April 24, 1886, against James
A. Mackenzie and Samuel R. Murphy, by Lewis E. Waterman,
claiming to be the sole and exclusive owner of a patent granted
to him by the United States on February 12, 1884, for an improvement in fountain pens, and of the invention thereby
secured; alleging an infringement thereof by the defendants;
and praying for an injunction, a discovery, an account of
profits and damages.
The tlefendants filed a plea, which alleged that the plaintiff,
at the time of filing the bill, was hot possessed, either of the
patent, or of an exclusive right under it to the whole or any
specified part of the United States; for that certain assignments in writing under seal of the patent and invention, from
the plaintiff to Sarah E. Waterman, his wife, from her to the
firm of Asa L. Shipman's Sons, and from that firin to Asa L.
Shipman, were made by the parties thereto, and were recorded
in the Patent Office, at the dates stated below, and that Shipman continued to be possessed of the patent and invention
until and including the time of the filing of the bill.
The plaintiff filed a general replication. At the hearing on
the issue thus joined, the following instruments, executed in

WATERMAN v. MACKENZIE.
Statement of the Case.

New York by and between citizens of that State, were duly
proved:
1st. An assignment, made February 13, 1884, and recorded
March 27, 1884, from Lewis E. Waterman, the plaintiff, to
Sarah E. Waterman, his wife, of -the whole patent and invention.
2d. A "license agreement," made between Mr. and Mrs.
Waterman on November 20, 1884, and never recorded, by
which she granted to him "the sole and exclusive right and
license to manufacture and sell fountain penholders containing
the said patented improvement throughout the United States,"
and he agreed to pay her "the sum of twenty-five cents as a
license fee upon every fountain penholder so manufactured
by him."
3d. An assignment, made November 25, 1884, and recorded
November 29, 1884, from Mrs. Waterman to the firm of Asa
L. Shipman's Sons, of the whole patent and invention, expressed to be made in consideration of the payment of the
sum of $6500, and containing this provision: "The consideration of this assignment is, that whereas the said Lewis E.
Waterman and the said Sarah E. Waterman have, on this 25th
day of November, 1884, made a joint note of hand for the sum
of $6500, payable to the said Asa L. Shipman's Sons three
years from this date, with interest at six per cent; now, if the
said Lewis E. Waterman and myself, or either of us, shall well
and truly 'pay the said note, according to its tenor, then. this
assignment and transfer shall be null and void, otherwise to be
and remain in full force and effect." It also contained covenants of full right to assign, and against all incumbrands,
"except a license to the said Lewis E. Waterman to manufacture and sell pens" under the patent,, being the license abote
mentioned.
4th. An assignment, made November 25, 1884, in consideration of the payment of the sum of $6500, and recorded
November 29, 1884, from the firm of Asa L. Shipman's Sons
to Asa L. Shipman, of all the right and title acquired by the
assignment made to them by Mrs. Waterman, as well as the
prbmissory note thereby secured.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Counsel for 'Parties.

5th. An assignment, made April 16, 1886, and recorded
April 22, 1886, from Mrs. Waterman to the plaintiff, of all
her right, title and interest in the patent and invention, and
all her claims or causes of action for the infringement of the
patent, and rights to damages or profits by reason thereof.
The Circuit Court allowed the plea, for reasons stated in its
opinion, as follows: "The transfer to Asa L. Shipman is in
language so emphatic and exact that there is little opportunity
for misapprehension. It matters not what the instrument is
called. It matters not that it may be defeated by the payment of $6500 on November 25, 1887. The fact remains
that by virtue of this assignment or mortgage the title to the
patent was, on April 24, 1886, when this action was commenced, outstanding in Asa L. Shipman. If it was not absolute, it was a present, existing title, defeasible upon a
condition subsequent. On April 16, therefore, when Sarah
IE. Waterman assigned all her right, title and interest to the
complainant, she had nothing to assign which could at all
change the legal status of the parties. She could not vest a
clear title to the patent in the coinplainant, for the obvious
reason that she had previously disposed of it and did not own
it. The agreement of November 20, 1884, being a license and
nothing more, does not enable the complainant to maintain
this action without joining the holder of the legal title. The
suggestion that, irrespectively of the Shipman assignment, the
complainant is entitled to prosecute for infringements alleged
to have occurred between February 12 and November 25,
1884, is equally unavailing; for, assuming such a right of
action to exist, it could only be maintained on the law and
not on the equity side of the court. The plea is allowed.
The complainant may amend, upon payment of costs, within
ten days:" 29 Fed. Rep. 316.
The plaintiff not having filed an amended bill within the
ten days, a final decree was entered dismissing his bill, with
costs, and he appealed to this court.
Xk.

Walter S. -Logan for appellant.

No appearance for appellees.

WATERMAN v. MACKENZIE.
Opinion of the Court.
MR.

JUSTcE GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered

the opinion of the court.
Every patent issued under the laws of the United States for
an invention or discovery contains "a grant to the patentee,
his heirs and assigns, for the term of seventeen years, of the
exclusive right to make, use and vend the invention or discovery throughout the United States and the Territories thereof."
Rev. Stat. § 4884. The monopoly thus granted is one entire
thing, and cannot be divided into parts, except as authorized
by those laws. The patentee or his assigns may, by instrument in writing, assign, grant and convey, either, 1st, the whole
patent, comprising the exclusive right to make, use and vend
the invention throughout the United States; or, 2d, an undivided part or share of that- exclusive right; or, 3d, the exclusive right under the patent within and throughout a specified
part of the United States. Rev. Stat. § 4898. A transfer of
either of these three kinds of interests is an assignment, properly speaking, and vests in the assignee a title in-so much ofthe patent itself, with a right to sue infringers; in the second
case, jointly with the assignor; in the first and third cases, in
the name of the assignee alone. Any assignment or transfer,
short of one of these, is a mere license, giving the licensee no
title in the patent, and no right to sue at law in his own name
for an infringement. Rev. Stat. § 4919; Gayler v. Wilder,
10 How. 477, 494, 495; .AXoore v. .arah, 7 Wall. 515: In
equity, as at law, when the transfer amounts to a license only,
the title remains in the owner of the patent; and suit must be
brought in his name, and never in the name of the licensee
alone, unless that is necessary to prevent an absolute failure
of justice, as where the patentee is the infringer, and cann~t
sue himself. Any rights of the licensee must be enforced
through or in the name of the owner of the patent, and perhaps, if necessary to protect the rights of all parties, joining
the licensee with him 'as a plaintiff. Rev. Stat. § 4921. Littlefield v. Perry, 21 Wall. 205, 223; Papver Bag Cases, 105
U. S. 766, 171 ; Birdell v. Shaliol, 112 U. S. 485-487. - And
see Renard v. levinstein, 2 Hem. & Mil. 628.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Whether a transfer of a particular right or interest under a
patent is an assignment or a license does not depend upon the
name by which it calls itself, but upon the legal effect of its
provisions. For instance, a grant of an exclusive right to
make, use and vend two patented machines within a certain
district, is an assignment, and gives the grantee the right to
sue in his own name for an infringement within the district,
because the right, although limited to making, using and vending two machines, excludes all other persons, even the patentee,
from making, using or vending like machines within the district, Vilgon v. Rousseau, 4 How. 646, 686. On the other
hand, the grant of an exclusive right under the patent within
a certain district, which does not include the right to make,
and the right to use, and the right to sell, is not a grant of a
title in the whole patent right wit]ain the district, and is therefore only a license. Such, for instance, is a grant of "the full
and exclusive right to make and vend" within a certain district, reserving to the grantor the right to make within the district, to be sold outside of it. Gayler v. Wilder, above cited.
So is a grant of "the exclusive right to make and use," but
not to sell, patented machines within a certain district.
-MJitchellv. iawey, 16 Wall. 544. So is an instrument granting "the sole right and privilege of manufacturing and selling"
patented articles, and not expressly authorizing their use,
because, though this might carry by implication the right to
use articles made under the patent by the licensee, it certainly
would not authorize him to use such articles made by others.
Hayward v. Andrews, 106 I.S.672. See also Oliver v. Rum.ford Chemical Works, 109 U. S.75.
An assignment of the entire patent, or of an undivided part
thereof,. or of the exclusive right under the patent for a limited
territory, may be either absolute, or by way of mortgage and
liable to be defeated by non-performance of a condition subsequent, as clearly appears in the provision of the statute, that
"an assignment, grant or conveyance shall be void as against
any subsequent purchaser or mortgagee for a.valuable consideration without notice, unless it is recorded in the Patent
Office within three months from the date thereof." Rev. Stat.
§ 4898.

WATERMAN v. MACKENZIE.

257

Opinion of the Court.

Before proceeding to consider the nature and effect of the
various instruments given in evidence af the hearing in the
Circuit Court, it is fit to observe that (as was assumed in
the argument for the plaintiff) by the law of the State of New
York, where all the instruments were made and all the parties
to them resided, husband and wife are authorized to make conveyances and contracts of and concerning personal property
to and with each other, in the same manner and to the same
effect as if they were strangers. Armitage v. 3ace, 96 N. Y
538; Adam8 v. Adam8, 91 N. Y. 381.
By the deed of assignment of February 13, 1884, the plaintiff assigned to Mrs. Waterman the entire patent right. That
assignment vested in her the whole title in the patent, and the
exclusive right to sue, either at law or in equity, for its subsequent infringement.
The next instrument in order of date is the "license agreement" between them of November 20, 1884, by which she
granted to him "the sole and exclusive right and license to
manufacture and sell fountain penholders containing the said
patented improvement throughout 'the United States." This
did not include the 'ight to use such penholders, at least if
manufactured by third persons, and was therefore a mere
license, and not an assignment of any title, and did not give
the licensee the right to sue alone, at law or in equity, for an
infringement of the patent. Gayler v. Wilder, Paper Bag
Cage8 and Hayward v. Andrews, above cited. The plaintiff
not having amended his bill, pursuant to the leave granted by
the Circuit Court, by joining. the licensor as a plaintiff, this
point requires no further notice.
Nor is it doubte .that the Circuit Court rightly held that,
if the plaintiff was entitled to recover only for infringements.
occurring between February 12 and November 25, 1884, his
remedy was at law. Root v. Railway Co., 105 U. S. 189.
The remaining question in the case, distinctly presented bythe plea, and adjudged by the Circuit Court, is of the effect
of the deed of November 25, 1884, by which Mrs. Watermanassigned to the firm of Asa L. Shipman's Sons all her right,.
title and interest in the invention and the patent, with an.
VOL. CXXxvm-17

OCTOBER TERI,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

express provision that the assignment should be null and void
if she and her husband, or either of them, should pay at
maturity a certain promissory note of the same date made by
them and payable to the grantees. This instrument, being a
conveyance made to secure the payment of a debt, upon condition that it should be avoided by the subsequent payment
of that debt at a time fixed, was a mortgage, in apt terms and
in legal effect. Conard v. Atlantic 14. Co., 1 Pet. 386, 446,
447. On the same day, the mortgagees assigned by deed to Asa
L. Shipman all their title under the mortgage, and the promissory note thereby secured. Both assignments were recorded
in the Patent Office within three months after their date; and
the title thereby acquired by Shipman was outstanding in him
at the times of the subsequent assignment of the patent right
by Mrs. Waterman to the plaintiff, and of the filing of this
bill. This last assignment was therefore subject to the mortgage, though not in terfis so expressed.
By a mortgage of personal property, differing in this respect
from a pledge, it is not merely the possession or a special property that passes; but, both at law and in equity, the whole
title is transferred to the mortgagee, as security for the debt,
subject only to be defeated by performance of the condition,
or by redern ption on bill in equity within a reasonable time;
and the right of possession, when there is no express stipulation to the contrary, goes with the right of property. Story
on Bailments, § 287; Story Eq. Jur. §§ 1030, 1031; Conarnd v.
Atlantic Ins. Co., 1 Pet. 386, 441; Casey v. Cavaroc, 96 U. S.
467, 417 ; Boise v. Enox, 10 Met. 40, 43 ; .B.rackettv. Bullard,
12 Met. 308, 310.
A mortgage of real estate has gradually, partly by the
adoption of rules of equity in courts of common law, and
partly by express provisions of statute, come to be more and
more considered as a mere security for the debt, creating a
lien or incumbrance only, and leaving the title in the mortgagor, subject to alienation, levy on execution, dower' and
other incidents of a legal estate; but the rules upon the subject vary in different States; and a mortgage is everywhere
considered as passing the title in the land, so far as may be

WATERMAN v. MACKENZIE.
Opinion of the Court.

necessary for the protection of the mortgagee, and to give
him the full benefit of his security. Stelle v. Carroll,12 Pet.
201 ; Van N7res8 v. Hyatt, 13 1Pet. 294; RutMns v. King, 1:
Wall. 53, 58; Brobst v. Brook, 10 Wall. 519, 529, 530. After
the mortgagee has taken possession, the mortgagor has no
power to lease ; and the mortgagee is entitled to have, and is
bound to. account for, the accruing rents and profits, damages
against trespassers, timber cut on the premises, and growing
crops. .Keeoh v. Hall, 1 Doug. 21; Turner v. Cameron's Coalbrook Co., 5 Exch. 932; -Dawsonv. Johnson, 1 Fost. & Fil.
656 ; Fairclough v, .Aarshall, 4 Ex. D. 37, 47, 49 ; Scruggs v.
.Memjhi8 &o. Railroad, 108 U. S. 368, 375; Teal v. Walker,
111 U. S. 242; Hutchins v. Zing, above cited; Gore v. Jenne8s, 19 Maine, 53; Bagnall v. Villar, 12 Ch. D. 812. Even
against a mortgagor in possession, the mortgagee may obtain
an injunction or damages for such cutting of timber as tends
to impair the value of the mortgage security, or as is not
allowed by good husbandry or by express or implied license
from the mortgagee. Robinson v. Litton, 3 Atk. 209, 210;
Farrant v. Lovel, 3 Atk. 723; Hampton v. Hodges, 8 Ves.
105; Humphreys v. Harrison,1 Jac. & Walk. 581; King v.
Smith, 2 Hare, 239; .Kountz v. Omaha Hotel Co., 107 U. S.
378, 395; Verner v. Betz, 1 Dickinson (46 N. J. Eq.) 256, 267,.
268; Page v. Robinson, 10 Cush. 99; Searle v. Sawyer, 127
Mass. 491; Waterman v. .atteson, 4 R. I. 539.
A mortgagee of a leasehold or other personal property has
the like right to in injunction to stay waste by the mortgagor. _Farrant v. Lovel, above cited; Brown V. Stewart, 1
Maryland Oh. 87; Parsons v. Hughes, 12 Maryland; 1. The
right of action against a stranger for an injury to goods mortgaged, generally,. though not always, depends upon the right
of possession. When the right of possession is in the mortgagor, he is usually the proper party to sue. Sellick v. Smith,
11 J. B. Moore, 459, 475; Brierly v. Kendall, 17 Q. B. 937;
Luse v. Jones, 10 Yroom (39 N.. J. Law) 707; Copp v. Wil
liams, i35 Mass. 401. But evena mortgagee out of possession
may sometimes maintain an action for an injury to his 'interest.
Gooding v. Shea, 103 Mass. 360; -Manning v. Ikfonaghan, 23

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

N. Y. 539, and 28 N. Y. 585; Woodside v. Adams, 11 Vroom
(40 N. J. Law) 417, 421, 422. And when the right of possession, as well as the general right of property, is in the mortgagee, the suit must be brought by the mortgagee, and not by
the mortgagor or any one claiming under a subsequent conveyance from him. Cona/rd v. Atlantic Ins. Co., 1 Pet. 386;
Wood v. Weimar, 104 U. S. 786; Clayp v. Campbell, 124 Mass.
50; Watson v. 2facquire, 5 C. B. 836, 844. When it is provided by statute that a mortgage of personal property shall
not be valid against third persons, unless the mortgage is recorded, a recording of the mortgage is a substitute for, and
(unless in case of actual fraud) equivalent to, a delivery of
possession, and makes the title and the possession of the mortgagee good against all the world. Aldrich v. .dEtna&ns. Co.,
8 Wall. 491, 497; Robinson v. Elliott, 22 Wall. 513, 521 ; Bullock r. Williams, 16 Pick. 33; Coles v. Clark,3 Cush. 399, 401.
. A patent right is incorporeal property, not susceptible of
actual delivery or possession; and the recording of a mortgage
thereof in the Patent Office, in accordance with the act of
Congress, is equivalent to a delivery of possession, and makes
the title of the mortgagee complete towards all other persons,
as well as against the mortgagor. The right conferred, by letter patent for an invention is limited to a term of years; and
a large part of its value consists in the profits derived from
royalties and license fees.* In analogy to the rules governing
mortgages of lands and of chattels, and with even stronger
reason, the assignee of a patent by a mortgage duly recorded,
whose security is constantly wasting by the lapse of time,
must be held (unless otherwise provided in the mortgage) entitled to grant licenses, to receive license fees and royalties,
and to have an account of profits or an award of damages
against infringers. There can be no doubt that he is "the
party interested, either as patentee, assignee or grantee," and
as such entitled to maintain an action at law to recover damages for an infringement; and it cannot have been the intention of Congress that a suit in equity against an infringer to
oltain an injunction and an account of profits, in which the
court is authorized to award damages, when necessary to fully

WATERMAN v. MACKEN ZIE.
Opinion of the Court.

compensate the plaintiff, and has the same power to treble the
damages as in an action at law, should not be brought by the
same person. Rev. Stat. §§ 4919, 4921; Boot v. Railway Co.,
105 U. S. 189, 212.

The necessary conclusion appears to us to be that Shipman,
being the present owner of the whole title in the patent under
a mortgage duly executed and recorded, was the person, and
the only person, entitled'to maintain such a bill as this; and
that the plea, therefore, was rightly adjudged good.
In the light of our legislation and decisions, nQ weight can
be given to the case of 'an Gelder v. Sowerby Bridge Society,
44 Oh. D. 374, in which, upon pleadings and facts similar to
those now before us, the mortgagor of a patent was treated as
a mortgagor in possession, and was allowed to maintain a suit
for infringement, under the provisions of the English Judicature Act of 1873 and Patent Act of 1883. Stats. 36 & 37 Vict.
c. 66, § 25; 46 & 47 Vict. c. 57, §§ 23, 46, 87.
Whether, in a suit brought by the mortgagee, the court, at
the suggestion of the mortgagor, or of the mortgagee, or of
the defendants, might, in its discretion, and for the purpose of
preventing multiplicity of suits or miscarriage of justice, permit or order the mortgagor to be joined, either as a plaintiff
or as a defendant, need not be considered, because no such
question is presented by this record.

Decree affimed.
MR. JusTioE BrowN, not having been a member of the court
when this case was argued, took no part in its decision.

