GORMLEY v. BUNYAN.
Syllabus.

regarded, and its specific provisions in connection therewith
enforced, and proper damages given for the breach thereof.
A lack of certainty as to terms f contract obligations of
either party, or measure of damages for breach, is simply the
misfortune of him who seeks to recover in case of a breach

thereof. The case practically is one of those in Which, however reprehensible the conduct of the defendant may be in
repudiating its contract obligations, the parties, having reference to one portion of the subject. matter of the contract,
made certain stipulations which determine the measure of
damages in the case of breach; and on the breach the injured
party has failed to bring himself within those stipulations.
Such failure is his loss. The court should have charged the
jury, that in reference to the machines other than the Dolph
machines, there could be none other than a recovery of nominal damages. Jaeczon v. Allen, 10,
M.ass. 64, 80.
For this error the judgment is
]?evemsed, and the case remanded, with intructionw to grant
a new trial.

GORMLEY v. BUNYAN.
ERROR TO THE cIcurr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 574. Submitted January 9,1891. -Decided

March 2,1891.

The granting or refusal of leave to file an additional plea, or to amend one
already filed, is discretionary witlithe court below, and not reviewable
by this .court, except in a case of gross abuse of discretion.
C lent money to plaintiffs in error, taking their notes payable to their own
order indorsed in blank. He held the notes at the time of his death, and
they came into possession of his executors who filled in the blank
indorsement with a direction to pay to the order of B and , executors
of C, and sued in assumpsit to recover on them. The declaration contained a special count on the notes describing then-as having been
indorsed and delivered to C, and the usual common counts in which the
transactions were all alleged to have taken placejwith C. Held, that, as
to the special count the variance could be curedby amendment, and as to

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.
the general counts the notes okfered conformed in legal effect to the allegations" set forth in them
The heading of a notice to take a deposition in this cause read: "United
States of America, State of Illinois, County of Cook, ss: In the Circuit
Court of the United States;" and the notice was that the deposition
would be taken "bei re William G. Peckham, Esq., notary public, or
some other officer authorized by law to take depositions." The deposition was in fact takcu before another notary, so authorized. Held,
(1) That the heading, though not technically correct, was substantially
so;

(2) That the taking of the deposition was perfectly regular.
In Illinois payments by the mortgagee for taxes and redemption of tax
certificates made after the sale, may be taken out of the proceeds of the
sale of tho property.
The only way in which statutes of limitation are available as a defence is
when they are, at tho proper time, specially pleaded.
The courts of the United States take judicial notice of all the public statutes of the several States.
In an action brought by an executor to recover on a promissory note made
,by defndant to his testator, it is not error to exclude evidence offered
by defendant to show that the notes were not inventoried by the executor
as part of the testator's estate.

THIS was an action of assumpsit, brought on the 24th of
December, 1886, by James Bunyan and James -Meehan, executors of the last will and testament of Edward Clark, deceased,
citizens of New York, against Michael Gormley and Morton
Culver, citizens of Illinois; to recover a balance due on a certain promissory note dated at Chicago, May 15, 1877, and due
in three years, with interest at 9 per cent per annum, payable
semi-annually- until due, and 10 per cent thereafter, at the
Chemical Bank of New York, made and signed by the defendants, payable to their own order, and by them indorsed in
blank, and also to recover the amount due on six coupon
notes of the same date, of $450 each, representing the semiannual interest on the principal note, all of which notes the
plaintiffs claimed to own as such executors. "
The declaration consisted of a special count on the notes,
describing them as having been indorsed and delivered- to
Edward Clark by the defendants, alleging that the same
were 16st and could not, therefore, be produced in court, and
stating that the coupon notes represented interest upon. the

GORAMLEY v. BUNYAN.
Statement of the Case.

principal note; and also of the usual common counts in assumpsit of indebtedness for work and labor ; materials ; money lent
and advanced; paid, laid out and expended; had and received ;
etc., to Edward Clark. Attached to the declaration were copies of the coupon notes, and what was intended to be -a copy
of the principal note, but which differed from it in some minor
particulars hereafter referred to. The. plaintiffs also made
profert of the letters testamentary issued to them, as executors of the last will and testament of Edward Clark, deceased.
The defendants put in a plea of the general issue, and iled
an affidavit of merits, March 10, 1887. On the 8th of December, 1887, the cause then being on the trial call of cases for
that day, the defendants moved to be allowed to file instanter
four additional pleas, viz.: (1) Plea of 'non estfactum; (2) plea
of the statutes of limitation of New York; (3) plea of the statutes of limitation of Illinois; and (4) plea of satisfaction. This
motion was denied by the court, and the defendants excepted.Afterwards, on the 10th day of December, 1887, the case being:
still on the trial call of cases for that clay, the defendants,
moved the court to be allowed to file instanter additionalpleas of set-off, claiming as due them from the plaintiffs thier
sum of 850,000, and also former recovery. The court overruled this motion also, and the defendants excepted.
The case went to trial before Judge Dyer and a jury, on the
15th of December, 1887. At the trial the plaintiffs offered in
evidence the original principal note for $10,000 and the six
coupon notes, (which it was shown had been found a few days
prior thereto,) all indorsed payable to the plaintiffs, and offered
evidence to prove the execution of the notes by the defendants. The $10,000 note had a credit of -$8848.50, indorsed
as of September 10, 1878, and the coupon notei were marked
"paid."
The defendants objected to the introduction of these notes,
claiming (1) that they differed from the notes set out in the special count of the declaration ; (2) that.they were not admissible
under the common counts, which charged an indebtedness to
Edward Clark and not to the plaintiffs; (3) that the coupon
notes were not described in the special count of the declaraVOL. cxxxvii-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

tion, and were not admissible under the common counts,
because the common counts all ran to Edward Clark, and not
to plaintiffs; and (4) because the coupon notes were marked
"paid." The objections were overruled, and the defendants
excepted.
The indorsements upon the notes were explained as follows:
All of the notes had been secured by a deed of trust to Adolph
Loeb, upon certain described property. This trust deed was foreclosed by Loeb, and on the 10th of September, 1878, the property was sold, under the power of sale contained in the deed,
for $8848.50. Loeb thereupon made the indorsement on the
note to represent the amount of money received by him as
trustee. Loeb also testified that the coupon notes had been
marked "paid" by his clerk, without any authority, and that
such marking was incorrect.
It was further shown in evidence that the amount due on
the notes at the time the sale was made was $11,027.79; and
that Loeb, as trustee, deducted from the proceeds of the sale
the following items: $374.09, for redeeming the property
from tax sales, for the taxes of 1876 and 1877; $16.00, costs
of advertising the sale of the property; and $200.00, as his
fees for the sale of the property -in all $590.09, leaving a
balance of $8257.91 to be applied- on the note September 10,
1878, which left $2769.88, due on the note on that day. Interest was then computed on that amount, at nine per cent to
the maturity of the note, and ten per cent thereafter, according to the terms of the note, and the total amount due at the
trial was thus ascertained to be $5290.
Objection was made at the trial by the defendants to the
allowance of the above items deducted by LOeb from the proeceeds of the- sale of the property, on the grounds that the
items for advertising and for trustee's fees were grossly excessive, and that after the trustee's sale of the property September 10, 1878, the trustee had no authority to redeem the property from the tax sales.
The plaintiffs also offered in evidence the deposition of
James Meehan, one of the executors, taken in New York City,
before a notary public, to prove, among other minor matters,

GORMLEY v. BUNYAN.
Statement of the Case.

that the note sued on had been in the possession of Edward
Clark, before his death, and had never been disposed of by
him in any manner. Objection was made to the introduction
of this evidence on several grounds, chiefly that the notice of
taking it was defective in several particulars, and was not
served on the defendants; that it was, not taken by the commissioner named in the commission, and did not show when
or for what reason it was taken ; and that other informalities
and irregularities existed on the face of it. The court overruled the objections and admitted the deposition, and the
defendants excepted.
The plaintiffs also offered in evidence certified copies of the
will of Edward Clark and the probate proceedings had thereon.
The defendants objected to this evidence generally, "and on
the specific ground that where the seal ought to be there is
nothing but the letters 'L. S."' Btft the court overruled
this objection and the defendants excepted.
The defendants sought to obtain credit on the note for a
number of small items of charges made by Loeb at the time
the original note and deed of trust were made and executed,
which were disallowed by the court. They will be understood
best, perhaps, from a recital of the following undisputed facts:
The defendants, being indebted to the Travelers' Insurance
Company in the sum of $10,000, with certain accrued interest,
applied to Loeb, who was a loan agent in Chicago, through
John Culver, a brother of one of the defendants, to secure a
loan of $10,000 to pay off their debt to the insurance company. That debt was evidenced by a bond, and was secured
by a deed of trust on the lands afterwards included in the
Loeb trust deed and certain other lands, to Lyman Baird.
Loeb made arrangements to procure the loan from Edward
Clark, through Clark's agent in Chicago, one Bolton. For
procuring this loan and clearing up the title of the lands included in his trust deed, Loeb made the following charges:
$40.40, to pay certain taxes due on the property; $32.50, to
pay a judgment against the defendant Culver; $12.90, for a
continuation of the abstract of title; $37.50, for attorney's
fees; $2.25 for recording fees; and $350 for his own services

OCTOBER TERAI, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

in securing the loan. Accordingly, it was found that a loan
of $10,000 was insufficient to satisfy the indebtedness of the
defehdants, and another loan of $1300 was effected, through
Bolton, from Edward Clark. The money in these transactions
was paid over by Bolton in the form of checks -one
for
$10,000, and the other for $1300-of the Singer Sewing
Machine Company, of which Clark was president, and Bolton
an agent in Chicago. The minutim of this transaction need
not be stated. It is suffilcient for our purpose to state that the
court held all those matters to- be purely personal between
Loeb and the defendants, and, therefore, having no connection
with the debt due to the plaintiffs.
The defendants also sought to have a credit of $142.60
allowed on the first coupon note as of date April 10, 1878, but
the court held that the evidence showed that they ought to
be allowed a credit of but $100, at that time, the other $42.60
having been paid to Loeb to induce him to stop proceedings
which he had commenced looking to the foreclosure of the
trust deed.
The defendants attempted to show by the evidence of one
witness that the property sold at the foreclosure sale was
worth at least $40,000, and that, therefore, they had been
greatly wronged in the transaction; but the court refused to
allow the evidence to be introduced, and the defendants
excepted.
The defendants also attempted to show that the notes sued
on were never scheduled as a part of the estate of Edward
Clark, deceased, as, they claimed, was required to be done by
the laws of New York; but the court refused to allow such
evidence to be introduced, and the defendants excepted.
At the close of the trial the court charged the jury: (1) That
there was no issue of fact under the evidence for them to consider; (2) That the items, heretofore mentioned as having been
deducted by Loeb from the proceeds of the sale of the property, were properly charged against the defendants; (3) That
the other items of account above mentioned as having arisen
about the time the loan was negotiated were purely personal
between Loeb and the defendants, and in nowise concerned

GORMLEY v. BUNYAN.
Argument for-Plaintiffs in Error.

the plaintiffs; (4) That the defendants should be allowed credits on the note only as above stated; (5) That it was immaterial how much the land was worth which was sold at the
foreclosure sale; and (6) That the jury were instructed to find
and return a verdict for $5290 in favor of the plaintiffs and
against the defendants. The defendants objected to this charge
of the court, but their objections were overruled and they excepted. The jury returned a verdict, as instructed by the
court, for $5290, to which the defendants excepted, and made
a motion to set it aside and for a new trial. This motion was
overruled, and judgment was entered on the verdict for $5290.
To reverse that judgment a writ of error was then prosecuted.
Mr. .forton Culver for plaintiffs in error.
I. The court should have allowed the plaintiffs in error to
plead the several pleas offered by them of non est factum,
statutes of limitations, satisfaction and of set-off. This proposition needs no extended argument; they -were offered in apt
time, ten days before the trial was begun, and copies of them
served on defendants in error. These pleas are all allowable
under the "Practice" Act of Illinois; they are favored, too, to
stay stale claims. .Iyman v. Bayne, 83 Illinois, 256; Emory
v. Heighan, 88 .Illinois, 482; Bemis v. Stanley, 93 Illinois, 230;
Lefflngwell v. Warren, 2 Black, 599; Any v. Dubuque, 98
1U. S. 470.
II. The notes were improperly admitted. (a) The $10,000
note, because it varies fron the special count. No copy of it
is attached to the declaration, nor is it admissible under the
common counts for the same reasons, and for the additional
reasons that the note is indorsed to Bunyan and MIeehan, and
not to Clark; and the common counts all declare an indebtedness to Clark, and not to Bunyan and Meehan; and the common counts allege that Culver and Gormley became indebted
.to Edward Clark on the 10th day of October, 1885, three years
after his death ; and for the same reasons the $450 notes were
improperly admitted, and in addition thereto, there is not a
count in the declaration on a single one of the coupon notes.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The statutes of Illinois provide in the Practice Act, c. 110, see.
18, that plaintiff .shall file with his declaration a copy of the
instrument of writing or account on which the action is
brought, in case same be brought on a written instrument or
account, and sect. 32 provides the same mode in case of setoff, and sec. 34 provides that a defendant shall not deny on
trial the execution of any instrument in writing on which any
action may have been brought or which shall be pleaded or
set up by way of defence or set-off, or is admissible under the
pleadings when a copy is filed, unless the person so denying
the same shall, if defendant, verify his plea by affidavit.
Streeter v. Streeter, 43 Illinois, 155; TWitson v. King, 83 Illinois, 232; Hauvoo v. Bitter, 97 U. S. 389. (b) Meehan's deposition was improperly admitted, because it did not comply
with the provisions of Rev. Stat. ยง 863. (c) The record of the
will and probate proceedings of Clark's estate were improperly
admitted. They are not under the seal of the court. Rev.
Stat. ยง 905, 906. (d) Bunyan and Meehan's charges for
moneys paid out for taxes and for redemption from tax sales
after the date of sale under the trust deed were improperly
allowed.
Webster v. Nichols, 1041 Illinois, 160, 172.
III. The court erred in excluding the statutes of limitations

of New York and Illinois.
Mr. Charles E. Pope, Mr. Alexander Yo Coy and Xr.
Charles B. Ao Coy for defendants in error.
MR. Juscmp LAwrR, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of. the court.
The first three assignments of error cover the whole case,
and are as follows:
The first is, that the court erred in refusing to allow the
plaintiff in error to file the several pleas of non eqt factum,
statutes of limitation, payment and set-off. The reply to this
is, that as long ago as Afandeville v. Wilson, 5 Cranch, 15, 17,
and as late as Chapman v. Barney, 129 U. S. 677, it has been
held that the granting or refusal of leave to file an additional

GORMLEY v. BUNYAN.
Opinion of the Court.

plea, or to amend one already filed, is discretionary with the
court below, and not reviewable by this court, except in a
case of gross abuse of discretion.
The second assignment of error is, that the court erred in
admitting incompetent and irrelevant evidence in behalf of
the defendants in error. Under this assignment various objections are specified.
(1) The first is, that there was a fatal variance between the
indorsement on the $10,000 note and that declared upon in
the special count, and that for the same reason it and the
coupon notes were inadmissible under the common counts.
The only variance between the declaration and the proof
(and this manifestly arose from the fact that the notes were
lost at the time of the filing of the declaration) was, that the
indorsement on the note was, "Pay to the order of Bunyan
and Meehan, executors of Edward Clark," instead of "Pay to
the order of Edward Clark," as stated in the declaration ; and
in the common counts the indebitatus was laid to Edward
Clark instead of to Bunyan and Ieehan, his executors.
The proof was clear that Edward Clark lent the money to
the plaintiffs in error; that they executed the notes, and
made them payable to their own order, and put on them their
blank indorsement; that Clark owned and had in his possession the note at the time of his death; and that Bunyan and
Meehan were appointed as his executors, in which capacity
they brought the suit.
Such a technical variance may be cured by amendment
without introducing any other cause of action or affecting the
merits of the case between the parties, and it 4as proper for
the court to allow it. It appears that on the trial the indorsement on the note was amended by the counsel for the defendants in error to corresponf with the declaration, with the
court's acquiescence, and pursuant to what they considered
its order. In the bill of exceptions is this statement of the
judge:
"The minutes of the court made at the trial and the shorthand reporter's notes do not show "thlat the court formally
granted leave to the plaintiffs to change the indorsement on

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the note in suit so that it should read, ' Pay to the order of
Edward Clark; ', but, from what was said by the court in its
opinion on the subject, I am satisfied that the attorneys for
the plaintiffs in good faith supposed or understood that they
had leave to make such change, and that, accordingly, they
had in fact changed the form of the indorsement on the note
independently of the minutes of the trial. The court cannot
say that leave was expressly granted, or that it said anything
further on the subject than is expressed in the opinion hereunto annexed."
We think that all the notes offered, either with or without
amendment, conformed in legal effect to the allegation of the
common counts. This objection cannot therefore prevail.
(2) A second objection relied on under this assignment is,
that the deposition of James Meehan was improperly admitted because not complying with the United States Revised
Statutes (see. 863) in that respect. The heading of the notice
was not technically correct, perhaps, but it was substantially
so. It was as follows: "United States of America, State of
Illinois, County of Cook, s8.: In the Circuit Court of the
United States." Then follows the title of this case, and every-thing else was regular. There could have been no mistake
made by the defendants with reference to what case the
notice applied. The proof showed that the notice was properly served, and that the deposition was taken at the place
and time specified in the notice, but before a different notary
public from the one specified in the notice. The notice read
that thedeposition would be taken "before William G. Peckham, Esq., notary public, or some other oicer authorized by
law to take depositions," etc. The deposition was actually
taken before Nicoll F. Elmendorf, a notary public, and an
officer authorized by law to take depositions in such cases.
That was perfectly regular, and cannot be objected to. The
notice conformed to section 863 of the Revised Statutes.
There is no merit in this objection.
(3) It is also objected that "the will and probpte proceedings of the estate of Edward Clark were improperly admitted."
This objection, as stated in the'record, is wanting in precision;

GORMLEY v. BUNYAIT.
Opinion of the Court.

but taking it as stated in the brief of counsel for plaintiffs inerror it is that "the certificates of authenticity are not in
accordance with the laws of the United States. They are not
under the seal of the court." In this statement counsel are
in error. An inspection of the record shows that the only
"certificates of authenticity" to which counsel refer, are the
certificates of exemplification of the Surrogate's Court. These
are in proper form, and are under the seal of the court. The
letters "L. S." appear on the copy of the original letters testamentary. This objection is therefore without merit.
Another objection urged under this assignment is, that the
charges for taxes and redemption of tax certificates by Loeb,
after the sale of the property under the trust deed, were improperly allowed. With reference to these charges the court
said:
"Here was a covenant in this trust deed on the part of the
makers of the deed to pay all taxes and assessments on the
property. They had up to the last moment before the sale in
which to do that. It was not done. In fact those taxes were
not paid until after the sale by this trustee - that is, he took
up these certificates, procured them to be cancelled, so that
they were no longer a lien on the property. It is true that in
this deed the language used is, that out of the proceeds of sale
he may pay all moneys advanced- advanced for insurance,
taxes and other liens or assessments; but it has seemed to me
that the act of paying the taxes or taking up the certificates
after the sale related back, i legal effect, to a period antedating the sale, and that it was equivalent to an advancement
of money before the sale for the payment of the taxes and tle
clearing off of these tax liens and assessments. I understahd
from Judge Blodgett and am authorized to say that he has
had this very question up in connection with trust deeds lik6
this, and that he has taken the same view of the question, and
has held that,. although the amount necessary to pay off the
taxes was hot advanced before the sale, but was paid after
the sale, it was an item which could be properly taken out of
the proceeds of the sale of the property."
We see no objection to anything in that part of the court's

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

opinion or in that ruling. Hall v. Gould,79 Illinois, 16 ; Par
sonw v. Gas Light ft Coke Co., 108 Illinois, 380.
Another objection is that the cheeks upon which the original loans were made were irrelevant and not counted on in
the declaration, nor proof made of signatures. These were,
in the view we take of the case, admissible as showing that
the amount of money due on these notes was actually received
from Edward Clark, as constituting part of the Pes gest.
One more objection remains under this second assignment,
which is, that the statement of the account by McCoy should
not have been received and adopted by the court as the basis
of its judgment. It is not shown toqur satisfaction that the
account is wrong in any particular item or items. The objection is to the account as a whole. There is no ground for such
an objection, if the principles upon which the account is stated
are correct; and they are so in this case.
Under the third assignment of error, viz. that the court
erred in excluding proper and competent testimony on behalf
of the plaintiffs in error, the points relied on are that the court
ruled out (1) proof of the moneys paid by plaintiffs in error
to said Edward Clark; (2) the statutes of Illinois and New
York concerning limitations, mortgages and estates; (3) evidence of the value of land sold by Loeb under the trust deed
to and for Clark; (4) the evidence to show that the notes in
suit were never scheduled in the Surrogate's Court of New
York.
With reference to the moneys claimed to be paid by plaintiffs in error to Edward Clark, or his agents, and to the value
of the land sold by Loeb at the foreclosure sale, the reply is,
that there was no evidence going to show, nor do the defendants claim, that they ever paid money to any one but Loeb.
Loeb was not the agent of Clark any more than of the defendants. ie was a trustee for both parties to the contract. The
moneys paid to Loeb by the defendants at the time they secured the loans were paid to him as their own agent. Dolton
was Clark's agent in those transactions. We agree with the
court below in holding those transactions to have been purely
personal between Locb and the defendants. So also with

COOK COUNTY v. CALUMET & CHICAGO CANAL CO. 635
Syllabus.

regard to the sale of the property under the trust deed. If
the defendants were wronged by that sale their remedy is
against Loeb; and any loss they may have suffered cannot
be pleaded to defeat the claim of the plaintiffs on the note.
There was no error in not allowing the statutes of limitation
of New York and, Illinois to be admitted in evidence, after
the court had overruled the motion of the defendants to be
allowed to plead them as a defence. The only way in which
such statutes are available as a defence is when they are, at
the proper time, specially pleaded. 1 Chitty on Pleading, 514,
515; Stephen on Pleading, 76, note; Wilson v. Eing, 83 Illinois, 232.
With respect to the refusal of the court to allow certain
other public statutes to be introduced in evidence, it need only
be said that the courts of the United States take judicial
notice of all the public statutes of the several States.
Neither was there any error in excluding evidence offered
to show that the notes sued on had never been inventoried as
a part of the estate of Edward Clark, deceased. It was shown
that the notes were his property at the time of his death, and
by operation of law, in pursuance of his will, they passed to
his executofs, who possessed the right to sue for the amount
due on them.
We see no error in the proceedings of the court below, and
its judgment is
Affirmed.

COOK COUNTY v. CALUMET & CHICAGO CANAL
& DOCK COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 1406. Submitted January 9,1891.-Decided March 2,1891.

To give this court jurisdiction of a writ of error to a state court it must
appear affirmatively, not only that a federal question was presented for
decision by the highest court of the State having jurisdiction, but that
its decision was necessary to the determination of the cause, and that it
was actually decided, or that the judgment as rendered could not have
been given without deciding it.
De Saussure v. Gaillard,127 U. S. 216; Johnson v. Risk, 137 U. S. 300, affirmed.

