BROWN v. TROUSDALE.
Syllabus.

erty for the best price that could be fairly obtained for it, becomes, without the knowledge of his principal, the agent of

another to get it for him at the lowest possible price. The
assumption of the latter position would be a fraud upon the
vendor who is entitled, in such cases, to the benefit of- the diligence, zeal and disinterested exertions of the agent in the execution of his employment. The law requires the strictest good
faith upon the part of one occupying a relation of confidence
to anothe. .0ibourn v. Sunderland,130 U. S. 505, 519; Story
on Agency, §§ 31, 211; Frarnswiorthv. Hemmer, 1 Allen, 4941;
Rice v. Wood, 113 M ass. 133; Scribner v. Collar, 40 Michigan,
375, 378; Raisin v. Ozark, 41 Maryland, 158; Lynch v. Fallon,
11 R. I. 311.
The judgment is reversed, and the cause remanded for further jroceedings in conformity with this opinion.

BROWN v. TROUSDALE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 158.

Argued January 22, 23, 1891.-Decided February 2, 1891.

A large number of taxpayers in Muhlenburgh County, Kentucky, filed their
bill against the officers of the county, and against two holders of bonds of
the county, one holding "original" bonds issued to pay a county subscription to stock in a railway company, the other holding "compromise"
bonds issued in lieu of some of the "original" bonds. . The relief
sought was to restrain the sheriff from levying a tax already ordered,
and to restrain the county judge from making future levies, and to have
both classes of bonds declared invalid, afid the holders enjoined from collecting principal or interest, and that notice might be given to unknown
bondholders, and for general relief. A large number of the bonds of
each class were held by citizens of Kentucky. The two bondholders,
defendants, (who were taxpayers in the county,) declined to make defence. Bondholders, citizens of Tennessee, then voluntarily appeared
and asked to be made parties, and, their prayer being granted, petitioned
in August, 1885, for the removal of the cause to the Circuit Court of the
United States on the ground that there was a controversy that was
wholly between citizens of different States, and which could be fully

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.
determined as between them, that the defendants, the ministerial officers
of the county, had 'no interest in the controversy, that the two bondholders were acting in concert with the plaintiffs, and that the petitioners
were the only partier that had a real interest in the controversy adverse
to the plaintiffs. The cause was removed to the Circuit Court, and,
a motion to remand having been denied, the bill was dismissed. Held,
(1) That the amount involved was sufficient to give jurisdiction;
(2) That the motion to remand should have been granted;
(3) That the removal could not be sustained under the first clause of the
act of Mlarch 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470, then in'force, because the controversy was not between citizens of different States, as the
parties could not be so arranged on the opposite sides of the matter
in dispute as to bring about that result; nor, under the second
clause of the section, because there did not exist a separable controversy wholly between citizens of different Sbates, and which
could be fully determined between them.

U.ON the 27th of July, 1885, several hundred taxpayers of the
county of Mluhlenburgh, Kentucky, filed their bill of complaint
in the Circuit Court of that county for themselves and others
associated with them, numbering about twelve hundred, as well
as "for and on behalf of all other taxpayers in the said county
of Muhlenburgh, and for the benefit likewise of said county,"
against Tinsley, the sheriff, and Morton, the county judge, of
the county; and Kittinger, Young, Weir, Whitaker, Newman
and M ills, members of a funding board, and "any other member of the funding board; and Robert Glenn, holder of original bonds; George D. Park, holder of compromise bonds, and
all holders of bonds issued to the-Elizabethtown and Paducah
Railroad Company;" alleging upon various grounds the invalidity of an issue of bonds in 1869, under an act of February_
2-4, 1868, to the amount of $400,000, in payment of an alleged
subscription of that amount on behalf of the county to the
capital stock of the railroad company, and also of certain new
bonds issued in 1878 in compromise of the former bonds, under
an act of -March 18, 1878, creating a board for the purpose of
funding the prior indebtedness. The bill averred the levy of
a tax to pay interest on bonds by the county judge, and that
the sheriff was about to proceed in the collection thereof, and
made the sheriff and county judge parties defendant; and
prayed an injunction against the sheriff from attempting to

BROWN v. TROUSDALE.
Statement of the Case.

collect the particular tax, and against the county judge front
making any order or further levy in the premises, and for a
decree that the original bonds be declared invalid and all
holders thereof be perpetually enjoined from collecting theprincipal of the bonds and the interest thereon, and that a like
decree be made as to the bonds issued under the funding act.
The plaintiffs made the members of the funding board and
two bondholders residing in the county of Muhlenburgh, one
holding an original bond or -bonds, and one holding a bond or
bonds under the funding act, defendants; and alleged that
they did not know the other holders of the bonds and therefore could not give their names, and asked for notice to be
given to the unknown bondholders under both acts, and for
general relief.
The bill was sworn to on the 224, of July, 1885, and an
order granting the injunction as prayed was made by the
judge of the Muhlenburgh Circuit Court on the 23d, and
entered of record, upon the filing of the bill. A summons and
injunction issued and were served accordingly. Notice was
given by counsel for defendants, dated August 5, and served
August 8 and 10, that on the 12th of August the defendants
would move for an order dissolving the injunction, and a.
motion to that effect was filed, as also a general demurrer to,
the petition. On that day-an order was entered, setting dowi"
the motion to dissolve and the demurrer, for hearing, on the.
14th of August, "by consent of counsel on both sides." OM,
the 21st of August, the application and affidavit of James
Alexander was presented, stating that "he is one of the,
defendants- hereto, described generally as a holder of bonds
issued to the Elizabethtown and Paducah Railroad Compay;"
and "that he holds and owns, and so held and owned at the.
time of the commencement of this action, nine bonds of the
face value and denomination of one hundred dollars each and
one bond of five hundred dollars" to which bonds interest
coupons since March 1, 1884, were attached, and he asked "to
enter his appearance and make defence to this action." Whereupon an order was entered in these words: "This day came
James Alexander and presented his petition to be made a

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

-party defendant to this action and to be allowed to make
defence to the same; which petition is ordered to be filed, and
said James Alexander is made a party defendant to this action."
Simultaneously, Charles W. Trousdale made a similar application, as the holder of $7000 of the compromise bonds of the
county of Muhlenburgh, and a like order was entered thereon.
On the same day Trousdale and Alexander presented their
jpetition for a removal of the cause to the United States Circuit Court for the District of Kentucky, stating: "That the
matter and amount in dispute in the above-entitled suit and
action exceeds, exclusive of costs, the sum or value of five
-aundred dollars, $500.00; that the controversy in this suit is
-betweendifferent citizens of different States; that your petitioners were at the commencement of this action and still are
-citizens of the State of Tennessee, and the plaintiffs, each and
all of them, were then and still are citizen of the State of
Kentucky.' Your petitioners further state that in this suit and
action above mentioned, there is a controversy which is wholly
between citizens of different States, and which can be fully
determined as between them, that is to say, a controversy
between these petitioners on the one side and the said plain'tiffs
on the other; that the defendants Alexander Tinsley, J. H.
:Morton, Martin ]{ittinger, Win. Young, Samuel Weir, A. E.
Newman and T. E. Mills, and each and every one of them, are
ministerial officers of the said county of Muhlenburgh, and
have no pecuniary interest in this controversy ; that the defendants Robert Glenn and George D. Park refuse to make defence
to the petition, and are acting in concert with the plaintiffs
therein, and petitioners are the only parties that have any
Teal interest in the controversy adverse to plaintiffs;" and
-tendering bond and praying for the transfer of the suit.
They a-so made a formal motion for the order of removal.
On the 22d of Auugust, the affidavit of Glenn and Park was
filed, -averring that "they were made parties defendant in
said cause without their knowledge or consent; that no collusion ex:sted between affiants and the plaintiffs in said cause
before the filing of their petition and no collusion exists now,
and the afflants are holders and owners of the bonds of said

BROWN v. TROUSDAJE.
Statement of the Case.

county in good faith, and that the statement
alleging affiants'
collusion, in the petition for a removal of this cause to the
United States Circuit Court, with the plaintiffs, is not true;"
that their action was "based on their own judgment as to the
justice of the same, and believing that the justice is with the
plaintiffs they do not choose to resist the plaintiffs' claim;"
and they also severally answered, saying that they had no
defence to make and asking that'the motion to dissolve the
injunction and the demurrer be withdrawn, so far as they
might be parties thereto.
Upon the same day the affidavit of C. L. M orehead was
filed, stating that he was the agent of the funding board, and
from information he had obtained from his coagent, he believed
"that a majority of the new bonds of said county are owned
and held by citizens of the State of Kentucky;" and also the
affidavit of Louis Jones, "that he has opportunity for knowing
the professed owners of the bonds of Muhlenburgh County,
Ky., issued to the Elizabethtown and Paducah R. R. Co."
This opportunity resulted from the fact that he was a member
of the General Assembly of Kentucky from which the bondholders aforesaid sought legislation on their behalf, and also
from the fact that he was a justice of the peace of said Muhlenburgh County, and was proceeded against on behalf of
said bondholders for the purpose of compelling a levy to satisfy interest on the said bonds. He states, from all the facts,
expressions and disclosures in their affairs, he is satisfied that
at that time about three-fourths of the said bonds were held
and owned by residents of the State of Kentucky, and it is
his conviction now that the owners of the said bonds are, at
least to the extent of two-thirds, residents of Kentucky.
The -Muhlenburgh Circuit Court'entered an order removing
the case to the United States Circuit Court, where a motion
was subsequently made to remand and overruled, to which
ruling and judgment plaintiffs by their counsel excepted.
The injunction was thereupon dissolved by the Circuit Court
"upon the face of the petition and exhibits filed therein."
Trousdale and Alexander then filed their answers, and issues
being joined, the cause came on upon the pleadings and an

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

agreed statement of facts and proofs, and a decree was entered
dismissing the bill, and the case thereupon brought to this
court.
-Mr. T. W. Brown for appellants.
-r.D. .XE. Rodman for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUsTIF FUTLLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The main question at issue was the validity of the bonds,
and that involved the levy and collection of taxes for a series
of years to pay interest thereon and finally the principal
thereof, and not the mere restraining of the tax for a single
year. The grievance complained of was common to all the
plaintiffs and to all whom they professed to represent. The
relief sought could not be legally injurious to any of the taxpayers of the county; as such, and the interest of those who
did not join in or authorize thie suit was identical with the
interest of the plaintiffs. The rule applicable to plaintiffs,
each claiming under a separate and distinct right, in respect
to a separate and distinct liability and that contested by the
adverse party, is not applicable here. For although as to the
tax for the particular year, the injunction sought might restrain only the amount levied against each, that order was
but preliminary, and was not the main purpose of the bill, but
only incidental. The amount in dispute, in view of the main
controversy, far exceeded the limit upon our jurisdiction, and
disposes of the objection of appellees in that regard.
As the plaintiffs sought to restrain the collection of taxes
already levied, and any further levies by the county judge, and
also a decree adjudging the invalidity of the bonds, the sheriff,
who was about to enforce the collection, and the county judge,
were necessary parties to the bill as framed, as were the bondholders, whose interests were directly affected.
There is
nothing to show that the, latter were so numerous as to render
it impossible to bring them all before the court, and we need
not discvss'the proper course to be pursued in such a contin-

BROWN v. TROUSDALE.
Opinion: of the Court.

gency. The plaintiffs made two of the bondholders residing
in Kentucky, representing, the one the original, and the other
the new, bonds, parties defendant, and averred that they did
not know the names of the other holders of the bonds and
asked for notice to be given to the unknown bondholders.
Before that notice bad been directed by the court, or the
names of the other bondholders had been ascertained and
steps taken to bring them in, the twvo non-resident bondholders
voluntarily became parties to the proceedings, and thereupon
the case was removed upon their application. And while the
two Kentucky bondholders, on the day of the order of removal,
withdrew the motion to dissolve and the demurrer, so far as
they were parties thereto, and declared that they had no defence to make to the bill, because, as alleged in their affidavits,
they believed that the justice of the cause was with the plaintiffs, and they, therefore, did not choose to resist in the premises, denying at the same time all collusion,.yet this is not a
controlling circumstance, in view of the frame of the bill.
Such being the attitude of the case, we are of opinion that
the motion to remand should have been granted. The removal
was had under the act. of March 3, 1875, (18 Stat. 470,) but
cannot be sustained under the first clause of the second section
of that act, as the controversy was not between citizens of
different States, unless the parties could,be so arranged on the
opposite sides of the matter in dispute as to bring about that
result; nor, under the second clause of the section, unless
there existed a separable controversy wholly between citizens
of different States, and which could be fully determined between them.
IftHarter v. -Kernochan,103 U. S.562, 566, this court said:
"Disregarding, as we may do, the particular position, whether
as complainants or defendants, assigned to the parties by the
draughtsman of the bill, it is apparent that the sole matter in.
dispute is the liability of the township upon the bonds [described in the bill]; that upon one side of that dispute are all
of the State, county and township officers and taxpayers, who
are made parties- wvhile.upon. the other is Kernochan, the owner
of the bonds whose V'alidity is questioned, by this suit. He,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

alone, of all the parties, is, in a .legal sense, interested in the
enforcement of liability upon the township. It is, therefore,
a suit in which there is a single 'controversy, embracing the
whole suit, between citizens of different States, one side of
which is represented alone by Kernochan, a citizen of Mlassachusetts, and the other by citizens of Illinois." There the bonds
were all owned and held by Kernochan, while here they are
in large part held and owned by citizens of Kentucky. If
this case admitted, then, of so arranging the parties as to put
the county officers and taxpayers on one side of the controversy and the bondholders on the other, still the cause would
not be susceptible of 'removal, under the first clause.
Was there, then, a separable controversy wholly between
citizens. of different States, and that a controversy which could
be wholly determined between them? "The case," said Mr.
Chief Justice Waite, in Fraser v. Jennison, 106 U. S. 191, 194,

"must be one capable of separation into parts, so that in one
of the parts a controversy will be presented with citizens of
one or more States on one side and citizens of other States on
the other, which can be fully determined without the presence
of any of the other parties to the suit as it has been begun."
Testing the right of removal by the case as made by the present bill, and as it stood at the time of removal, it was a case
against all the bondholders, in respect to whom it was not
denied that a large number were citizens of Kentucky, upon a
cause of action not susceptible of division.
The plaintiffs were not prosecuting an action against individual bondholders for the cailcellation -of individual bonds.
They were attacking the validity of the entire subscription
and seeking a decree which would invalidate the entire issue.
The petitioners were out of the jurisdiction, and if they had
remained so would not have been concluded. The federal
courts were open to them for the pursuit of the remedies
which the law afforded. When they voluntarily submitted
themse yes to the jurisdiction of the state court, they became
so associated with the resident bondholders as to render it
impossible for them to contend that the controversy which
involved all was separable as to them, and that they were

BEAUPR

v. NOYES.

Statement of the Case.

thereby enabled to transfer the particular suit, as it affected
all the defendants, to the Circuit Court.
The decree is reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions to remand it to the state court.

BEAUPRE v. NOYES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NIN NESOTA.
No. 160. Argued and submitted January 23,1891. -Decided

February2, 1891.

Although a case from the highest court of a State may involve a Federal
question, yet, if that court proceeds upon another and distinct ground,
not involving a Federal question, and sufficient in itself to maintain the
fnal judgment, without reference to the Federal question involved, its
judgment will be affirmed here.
This court is without authority to review an order denying a motion for a
new trial.

THE

case, as stated by the court, was as follows:

This action was brought in the District Court of Ramsey
County, Minnesota, by the defendants in error, partners as
Noyes Bros. & Cutler, against the plaintiffs in error, partners
as Beaupr6, Keogh & Co., each firm d6ing business in the city
of St. Paul.
The complaint alleges that Charles Young, engaged in get eral mercantile business at Forsyth, in Custer County, Moitana, being insolvent, and indebted to many persons, - among
others, to the plaintiffs in the sum of $425.71, and to the
defendants in the sum of $1080.43,- executed, on the 27th of
April, 1883, a deed of assignment for the benefit of his creditors, whereby, and for the purpose of making equal provision
for all of them, he transferred to C. A. Winchester .his property, real and personal, in trust- fdr- -his creditors; that Winchester accepted the trust, qualified as assignee,. took actual
possession of the property assigned, proceeded in due form
to execute-the trust, and has ever since been such assignee;

