UNITED STATES v. KINGSLEY.
Statement of the Case.

"net earnings," all such expenditures. as have the effect of
permanently improving the value of the company's property
and works; and, taken prospectively, it is to be regarded as
valid under the decision in The Sinking -Fund0ae, 99 U. S.
7'00. As the expenses in question are of the category referred
to, and the allowance of them by the Court of Claims reduced
the 25 per cent of net earnings by the said amount of $198,422.83, it follows that the judgment, as to that sum, must be
reversed, and be affirmed as to the said sum of $804,094.31;
and the cause
Remanded with in8truction8 to enter judgment in conformity with tWhie oznwin.

UNITED STATES v. KINGSLEY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLA]XS.

1Wo.
778. Argued January 16, 1891

Decided Jafhuary 26,1891.

A private In the Marine Corps of the United States, discharged from the
service as a person of bad character and unfit for service by order of
the Secretary of the Navy through the Commandant of the Corps,
without court martial or other competent military proceeding, forfeits
thereby his retained pay under the provisions of Rev. Stat. ยง 1281; but
he may claim and recover his transportation and subsistence from the
place of his discharge to -the place of his enlistment, enrollment, or
original muster into the service, under the provisions contained In Rev.
Stat. ยง 1290.

Tis was an appeal by the United States from a judgment
of the Court of Claims, 24: C. Cl. 219, awarding to the petitioner, Joseph F. Kingsley, $73.30 for "retained pay," and for
transportation and subsistence from the place of his discharge
to that of his enlistment. The finding of the Court of Claims
was as follows:
"Finding,offact.
"This ase having been heard before the Court of Claims,
the court, upon the evidence, finds the facts to be as follows;

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

"1. August 12, 1882, the claimant enlisted as a private ifi
the Marine Corp's of the United States at Brooklyn, N. Y.
"October 3, 1884, he was promoted to a corporal
"September 4, 1885, he was reduced to a private.
"June 4, 1887, he was discharged from the Marine Corps
at the Marine Barracks, Navy-yard, Washington, D. C.;
"2. The cause of discharge appears in the following correspondence and order:
"MAaRinE BARRAcxs, NKvAY-YARD,
"WASHIiNGTON, D. C., .Xay 28, 1887.
"Sm: I have to respectfully request that private Joseph F.
Kingsley, of this command, may be discharged from the service, as he is utterly worthless and his character is bad; he is
also a very disturbing element in the garrison. I inclose herewith his staff returns, also a list of his offences.
"Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
"P. 0. POPE.

"Captain U. S.-Marine Co7rp., Commanding .Marine8.
"0. G. McCauley, Colonel Commandant.

"List of offences.
"October 11,.1886. Twenty-four hours over leave.
"October 21, 1886. Creating disturbance in quarters.
"December 3, 1886. Drunk in garrison.'
"December 24, 1886. Insubordination and disrespect to sergeant of the guard, tried by summary court martial, sentenced
thirty days D. I., solitary confinement.
"February 23, 1887. Over leave.
: April 5, 1887. Improper conduct at target practice.
]May 20, 1887. Absent without leave.
"May 26, 1887. Insubordinate and disrespect to the officer
of the day.
"These reports were forwarded through the official channels to the Secretary of the Navy, and thereafter the following order was issued:

UNITED STATES v. KINGSLEY.
Statement of the Case.
"HREADQUARTERS U. S. MARINE CORPS,
" WAsHITGTOi,

D. C., .At-y 31, 1887.

"SmR: Be pleased to discharge 'by order of the Secretary
of the Navy, as unfit for service, character bad,' .
.
private Joseph F. Kingsley, at the Marine Barracks, Navy-yard,
Washington, D. C., (upon the report of his commanding officer, dated the 28th instant).
"Very respectfully,
C. G. McCAuLEY,
"Colonel Commandant, U. S. .Marine Corps.
"The Adjutant and Inspector, U. S. Marine Corps Headquarters.
"June 4, 1887, in pursuance of this order the claimant was
discharged.
"3. It does not appear that he demanded to be tried by
court martial or protested against his discharge.
"4. He has not received any ' retained pay' under section
1281 of the Revised Statutes, nor transportation and subsistence from the place of discharge to the place of enlistment
under section 1290. He has, however, received all other pay
and allowances.
"The distance from Washington Navy-yard to Brooklyn is
228 miles.
"5 Under the practice of the accounting officers of the
Treasury Department enlisted men of the Marine Corps have
been held to be entitled to all the benefits of sections 1281 and
1290 of the Revised Statutes.

"COonel8ion of lw.
"Upon the foregoing findings of facts the court decides, as
conclusions of law, that the claimant is entitled to recover for
'retained pay' under section 1281 of the Revised Statutes
$65.20, and for transportation and subsistence, under section
1290, $8.10."
From the judgment entered upon this finding the defendant
appealed to this court.

OCTOBER TERM.f, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

M. A88i8tant Attorney GeneraZ Maury for appellants.
No appearance for appellee.
MRl.

JusrTic

BRowN delivered the opinion of the court.

(1) Claimant's right to retained pay depends upon Rev.
Stat. ยง 1281, which reads as follows: "To the rates of pay
stated in the preceding section one dollar per month shall be
added for the third year of enlistment, one dollar more per
month for the fourth year, and one dollar more per month for
the fifth year, making in all three dollars increase per month
for the last year of the first enlistment of each enlisted man
named in said section. But this increase shall be considered
as retained pay, and shall not be paid to the soldier until his
discharge from the service, and shall be forfeited unless he
serves honestly and faithfully to the date of discharge."
To entitle the soldier to this retained pay it is therefore
necessary to show, first, his discharge from the service; seeond, an honest and faithful- service to the date of discharge.
It was held by the Court of Claims, however, that to deny his
right -to retained pay, a forfeiture must have been considered
and declared by a court martial or other military authority
having jurisdiction in the premises, and that the question of
honest and faithful service, required by the section, was not
one that could be tried in' a collateral proceeding. We are
unable to concur in this opinion. By his enlistment the soldier contracts for honest and faithful service, and the rendition
of such service is a condition precedent to his right to recover
his retained pay. The fact that he has not rendered such service may be shown as well by his military record as by the
judgment of a court martial. It is true the word "forfeited "1
is used:in the statute, but 'we think it is not used in the technical sense of a punishment after judgment, but rather in the
sense of a disability incurred by the non-performance of a contract. A similar meaning is attached to the word when used
in connection with the claim of a mariner for his wages. By
his contract of shipment the seaman also bargains for honest
and faithful service, and obedience to the lawful commands

UNITED STATES v. KINGSLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

of the master and other officers of his vessel, and in case of
desertion or gross misconduct, it is the constant practice of
courts of admiralty to forfeit the whole or a part of his wages,
irrespective of the actual damage suffered by the owner or
master of the vessel. The Baize, Brown's Adm. 424. In an
action at common law, however, such wages are not subject
to forfeiture, but a deduction is made therefrom commensurate
with the damages actually sustained. The statute under consideration imposes a like forfeiture for a breach of the soldier's
contract of enlistment, irrespective of any actual damages
occasioned by his misconduct, and such forfeiture may be
declared by the court in which he brings his action, as well as
by the judgment of a court martial. Indeed, the word in this
connection means nothing more than an incapacity to recover,
by reason of misconduct, irrespective of any actual damages,
or, as defined by Worcester, "to lose by some breach of condition; to lose by some offence."
We are confirmed in this view by an examination of UniteJ
taP8 v. Zanderm, 92 U. S. 77, 79, which was an action for
boufity and pay, wherein Mr. Justice Field, speaking for the
court, says: "Forfeiture of pay and allowances up to the time
of desertion follows from the conditions of the contract of
enlistment, which is for faithful service. The contract is an
entirety; and, if service for any portion of the time is criminally omitted, the pay and allowances for faithful service are
not earned. And, for the purpose of determining the rights of
the soldier to receive pay and allowances for past services, the
fact of desertion need not be established by the firidings of a
court martial; it is sufficient to justify a withholding of the
moneys that the fact appears upon the muster-rolls of his cofinpany. If the entry of desertion has been improperly made, Its
cancellation can be obtained by application to the War MJpartment. But forfeiture of pay and allowances for future
services, as a condition of restoration to duty, can only be
imposed by a court martial."
That the accounting officers of the Treasury were justified
in withholding the pay of the claimant in this case, is manifest
by the numerous offences of which he appears, from the report

OCTOBER TERIM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

of his commanding officer, to have been guilty. This record
shows a clear case of failure to furnish the honest and faithful service demanded by the statute.
(2) Different considerations apply to his claim for transportation and subsistence from the place of discharge to the place
of enlistment. The right to this depends upon section 1290:
"When a soldier is discharged from the service, except by
way of p nishment for an. offence, he shall be allowed transportation and subsistence from the place of his discharge to
the place of hiis enlistment, enrollment or original muster into
the service. The government may furnish the same in kind,
but in case it shall not do so he shall be allowed travel-pay
and commutation of subsistence for such time as may be sufficient for him to travel from the place of discharge to the place
of his enlistment, enrollment or original muster into the service, computed at the rate of one day for every twenty miles."
We think this statute contemplates a discharge as a punishment inflicted by the judgment of a court martial or other
military authority, for a specific offence, and not such a discharge as was issued in this case, for unfitness for service and
general bad character. While this may justify the proper
authorities in ordering the discharge of the soldier as a worthless member of the service, we cannot consider such a discharge
as "a punishment for an offence" within the meaning of the
statute. The question whether such punishment must necessarily be awarded by the judgment of a court martial, is not
presented by the record, and we express no opinion upon the
point.
The judgment of the Court of Claims must, therefore, be
Reversed and the case remanded with directions to set aside
the .judgment already rendered,and to enter a new judgment in favor of the claimant for $8.10,for his transportation and subsistence.

