ALEXANDER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

ALEXANDER v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 1309.

Argued and submitted January 16, 1891. - Decided February 2, 1891.

It is the duty of counsel, in a criminal case, to seasonably call the attention
of the court to any error in impanelling the jury, in admitting testimony,
or in any other proceeding during the trial by which the rights of the
accused may be prejudiced, and, in case of an adverse ruling, to note an
exception; and if counsel fails in this respect, error caninotzbe assigned
for such causes.
It being shown in a trial on an indictment for murder, that on the day of
the disappearance of S. (the murdered man), and of Mrs. H., her husband
and his relatives were seen, armed with guns and pistols, hunting for Sand Mrs. H., who were supposed to have eloped together, the declarations at that time of H. as to his purpose in doing so were part of the
res gestce: but this court does not decide whether it was error to rule
them out.
Statements regarding the commission of a crime already committed, made
by the party committing it to an attorney at law when consulting him in
that capacity, are privileged communications, whether a fee has or has
not been paid, and whether litigation is pending or not.
The rule announced in Queen v. Cox, 14 Q. B. D. 153, should be limited to
cases wheie the party is tried for the crime in furtherance of which the
communication is made.

Tm case is stated in the opinion.

X.. A. -H. Garlknd and XrA.H. J .May, for appellant, submitted on their brief.
.Mr. Solicitor GeneraZ for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE

BROWN delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a writ of error sued out under the sixth section of
the act of February 6, 1889, 25 Stat. 655, 656, c. 113, § 6, to
review a judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Western District of Arkansas, imposing a sentence of
death upon the plaintiff in error for the murder of David C.
Steadman "at the Creek Nation in the Indian country."
VOL. Cxxxvmn-23

OCTOBER TERME, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiff in error relied upon the following grounds for
reversal:
1. That the court erred in its selection of the jury, in that
the defendant was required to make his challenges without
first knowing what challenges the government's attorney had
made, and thus challenged two jurors, to wit, 0. F. Needles
and Samuel Lawrence, who were also challenged by the govermnent, whereby he was deprived of two of his challenges
contrary to law.
2. That the court erred in excluding the testimony offered
by the defendant to prove threats to kill Steadman made by
House and others, while they were hunting Steadman under
the belief that he had seduced the wife of the said House,
and was secreting himself with her in the neighborhood.
3. Because the court erred in admitting the testimbny of
J. G. Ralls as to confidential communications made to him as
the attorney of the defendant.
(1) With regard to the first error assigned, it appears from
the record that "the court directed two lists of thirty-seven
qualified jurymen to be made out by the clerk, and one given
to the district attorney and one to the counsel for the defendant; and the court further directed each side to proceed with
its challenges independent of the other, and without knowledge on the part of either as to what challenges had been
made by the other. To which method of proceeding in that
regard defendant at the time offered no objections, but proceeded to make his challenges, and in so doing challenged two
jurors, to wit, 0. F. Needles and Samuel Lawrence, who had
been also challenged by the government." We do not deem
it necessary to inquire whether there was error in the method
pursued by the court in impanelling this jury. It appears distinctly from the bill of exceptions that the defendant offered
no objection to it at the time, and made no demand to challenge any of the jury beyond the twenty allowed by Revised
Statutes, section 819. Indeed, it does not clearly appear which
side made the first challenges, or that defendant 'had not
exhausted his challenges before the government challenged
the two jurors in question. If it were a fact that the defend-

AIEXANDER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

ant had made his twenty challenges before the government
challenged these two men, it is difficult to see how his rights

were prejudiced by the action of the district attorney.
But the decisive answer to this assignment is, that the
attention of the court does not seem to have been called to
it until after the conviction, when the defendant made it a
ground of his motion for a new trial. It -is the duty of
counsel seasonably to call the attention of the court to any
error in impanelling the jury, in admitting testimony, or in
any other proceeding during the trial by which his rights are
prejudiced, and in case of an adverse ruling to note.an exception. Stoddard v. Chambers, 2 How. 284; -De Sobry v.
Ncrholson, 3 Wall. 420; Canal Street Railroad v. Bart, 114
U. S. 654; Thompson on Trials, §§ 690, 693, 700.
(2) To understand fully the force of the second error assigned, it is necessary to state so much of the evidence as
exhibits substantially the case made out by the government.
The evidence tended to show that the defendant and the
deceased, Steadman, had agreed to go into the stock business
together, and, upon the day of the murder, were endeavoring
to rent a farm for the purpose of wifiterifig their horses, and
making a crop the following year They were returning to
their camp both armed with guns. Defendant was also armed
with a pistol. So far as the evidence discloses, Steadman disappeared and was never seen alive again. A few. minutes
after they were last seen, a witness, who had met them, saw
the two horses, without riders, standing in the road near a
wood. Shortly after, eight or nine shots were heard in the
wood, and after this the defendant was seen upon the road,
sitting upon one of the horses, and leading the other, which
bad no rider. In about twelve days ihe body of Steadman
was found half a mile from the place from which he and defendant had been seen, and within seventy-five yards of the place
where the horses were seen stanfding. His skull was crushed;
itnd there was a bullet hdle'ii it babk of the ear. There was
also evidence that Steadman'had a large amount of money on
his person at the time he disappeared. The defendant offered
contradictory explanations of Steadnfan's disappearance -at

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

one time said he had probably been killed, and at another
time suggested suicide, and, at another, pretended to believe a
story that had been circulated in the neighborhood that Steadman and a married woman by the name of House had disappeared and were hiding together. Evidence was admitted
tending to show that Mrs. House and Steadman had been
seen in conference the day before, and that the general impression in the neighborhood at the time was that they had gone
off together. House and his friends had armed themselves
with guns and pistols and had ridden through the country
hunting for them, under the belief that they were hiding together in the neighborhood, or had fled the country together.
Now, if evidence was admitted to show that House had
armed himself, and was hunting for Steadman under the impression that the latter had eloped with his wife, and was
secreting himself in that vicinity, it is difficult to see upon
what principle his threats in that connection were excluded.
Accepting the theory of the government that mere threats,
unaccompanied by acts of a threatening nature, were irrelevant to the question of defendant's guilt, it is not easy to
understand how the act9 themselves could be made pertinent
without testimony tending to show the reason why House had
armed himself, and, with other parties, was scouring the country for Steadman. Their statements in that connection would
be clearly illustrative of the act in question, and a part of the
res gestw, within the rule laid down in Lord George Gordon?8
Case, 1 Greenl. Ev. § 108, and within all the authorities upon
the subject of declarations as part of the res gestw.
At the same time we recognize a certain discretion on the
part of the trial judge to rule out this entire testimony, both
of the acts and the declarations of House, if, in his opinion,
they were so remote or insignificant as to have no legitimate
tendency to show that House could have committed the murder. If, for instance, it were clearly proven that the murder
was committed before the threats of House were uttered, or
the two occurrences were so remote in time and place as to
demonstrate that there could have been no connection between
them, it would be the duty of the court to exclude the testi-

ALEXANDERt v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

mony. But, if on the other hand, the time, and the circumstances attending the murder were uncertain or obscure, the
conduct and threats of House might have a material bearing
upon the identification of the murderer. It is held by some
of the authorities that the question whether such evideice
should be admitted or excluded, is to a certain extent a matter
of discretion with the trial judge. Shailer v. Bumstead, 99
Mass. 112; Thayer v. Thayer, 101 Mass. 111; Ccoimonwealth
v. Abbott, 130 Mass. 472; Commonwealth v. Ryan, 134 Mass.
223; .ftcInturf v. The State, 20 Tex. App. 335.
In the present case, however, it is assumed, both in the
exception noted to the exclusion of the testimony, and in the
briefs of counsel, to have been proven as a fact, by the witness
Terry, that on the day of the disappearance of Steadman and
Mrs. House, he saw Samuel House, her husband and several
others, relatives and friends of House, riding around the
neighborhood armed with Winchester guns and pistols, hunting
for deceased and Mrs. House, who were then believed to have
eloped together, or to be secreting themselves in the neighborhood; and although the testimony of Terry, as set forth in the
bill of exceptions, fails to support this statement, or to show
definitely what he did intend to swear to, yet assuming it to
be as stated, we think that, if it were shown that Hbuse was
in search of Steadman, his declarations as to his purpose in so
doing stand upon the same basis, with regard to admissibility,
as his conduct, and were a part of the res gestw. But in the
view we take of the next assignment we find it unnecessary
to determine whether there was such error in ruling out this
testimony as to require a reversal.
(3) The third assignment relates to the admission of the,
testimony of 1. G. Ralls, an attorney at law, to which objection was made upon the ground that it related to a confidential communication made by the defendant, Who had consulted
RaUs as an attorney at law, and was therefore privileged.
Ralls stated in substance that he was practising law at Muscogee; that defendant came to his office there between the
time of Steadman's disappearance and the finding of his body,
<Cand asked me if I was an attorney; I .told him I was; he

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

said his name was Alexander, and he went on to state that he
and his partner had some forty head of hbrses across the river,
in partnership, and that some time before that, probably a
week before, his partner wa§.missing, and he hadn't heard
from him. He says his partner had a brother in California,
and he was afraid his brother would come up there and make
some trouble about the horses; he stated -at the time his
partner had taken off the money, and he wanted to know if
he could hold the horses so as to secure his part of the money.
I asked him if the horses would pay him for his part, and he
said it would; I told him to hold the horses ; they could not
take them until that was settled."! It is evident from this
statement that defendant - consultedT with Ralls as a legal
adviser, and while, if he were guilty of the murder, it may
have had a tendency to show an effort on his: part' to defraud
his partner's estate, and to make profit out of his death, by
appropriating to himself the partnership property, it did not
necessarily have that tendency and, was clearly a privileged
communication. If 'he e-ns ,htec
mii..the capacity of an
attorney; and the communication was in the course of his
employment, and may be supposed to have been drawn out in
consequence of the relations of the parties to each other,
neither the payment of a fee nor the pendencv of'litigation
was necessary to entitle. him to the privilege. W]illiams v.
-Fitch,18 N. Y. 546; Bitton v. Lorenz, 45 N. Y. 51 ; Bacon
v. F isbie, 80 N. Y. 394; Andrew8 v. Simm8, 33 Arkansas,
771.

In the language of Mr. Justice Story, speaking for this
court in Chirac v. Reinicker, 11 Wheat. 280, 294: "Whatever
facts, therefore, are communicated by a client to a counsel
solely on account of that relation, such counsel are not at
liberty, even if they wish, to disclose; and the law holds their
testimony incompetent."
__ We are referred, however, to -the case of. Queen v. Cox,14r
Q. B. D. 153, as holding the doctrine' that where a communication is made to counsel in furtherance of a scheme to commit
a crime, the client is not entitled to the privilege. This was
a_ rown case reserved and argued before -ten judges of -the

ALEXANDER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Queen's Bench Division. The defendants Cox and Railton
were indicted for a conspiracy to defraud one Munster. The
facts stated show that Munster had obtained a judgment
against Railton in an action for libel, upon which an execution
had issued, which the sheriff proposed to levy upon the defendant's stock in trade. He was met, however, by a bill of
sale from Railton to Cox, the other defendant, antedating the
execution. It was claimed that the bill of sale was fraudulent
and made for the purpose of depriving Munster of his rights
under the judgment, and Railton and Cox were indicted for
conspiracy. The question was whether an interview had by
PRailton and Cox with Goodman, a solicitor, as to what could
be done t6 prevent the property from being seized under execution, was competent evidence, or was a privileged communication. No point was made that Goodman was not consulted
as an attorney. The court unanimously held that the evidence was competent. Mr. Justice Stephen, who delivered the
opinion of the court, said, in a very exhaustive discussion,
that the question was, "whether, if a client applies to a legal
adviser for advice intended to facilitate or to guide the client
in the commission of a crime or fraud, the legal adviser being
ignorant of the purpose for which his advice is wanted, the
communication between the two is privileged? We expressedour opinion at the end of the argument that no such privilege
existed. If it did, the result' would be that a man intending
to commit treason or murder might safely take legal advice
for the purpose of -enabling himself to. do so with impunity,
and that the solicitor to whom the application was made would
not be at-liberty to give information against his client for the
purpose of frustrating his criminal purpose." pp. 165, 166.
After citing and commenting upon a Jarge number of cases,
he comes to the conclusion that if the communication be made
in furtherance of any criminal or fraudulent purpose, it is not
privileged. This case, however, is clearly distinguishable from
the one under consideration, in the fact that the solicitor was
consulted with regard to a scheme to defraud, for which his
clients were subsequently indicted and tried, and the testimony
was offered upon that trial; while in this case the consultation

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

was had after the crime was committed, and was offered in
evidence as an admission tending to show that defendant was
concerned in the crime, or rather as a statement contradictory
to one he had made upon the stand. Had he been indicted and
tried for a fraudulent disposition of his partner's property, the
case of Queen v. Cox would have been an authority in favor of
admitting this testimony, but we think the rule announced in
that case should be limited to cases where the party is tried
for the crime in furtherance of which the communication was
made.
Had. the interview in this case been held for the purpose of
preparing his defence, or even for devising a scheme to escape
the consequences of his crime, there could be no doubt of its
being privileged, although he had made the same statement,
that his partner was missing and he had not heard from him.
,Now the communication in question was perfectly harmless
upon its face. If it were true that his partner was missing, and
he.had not heard from him, and that Steadman had taken off
the money, there was no impropriety, in his consulting counsel
for the purpose of ascertaining if he could hold the horses, so
as to secure his part of it. Rails asked him'in that connection
if the horses would pay him for his part, and defendant said
they would; he then told him to hold the horses, that they
could not take them until that was settled.
It is only by assuming that he was guilty of the murder
that his scheme to defraud his partner becomes at all manifest.
His statement that his partner was missing and that he had
not heard from him, is the only material or relevant part of
the conversation, and was plainly privileged.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed, and the
case remandedfor a new trial.
MR. JusTIOEc GRAY was not present at the argument and
took no part in-the decision of this case.

