JANUARY TERM, 1845.

87

Kendall v. Stokes et al.

9ccomplainants had not set -downffor hearing the pleas filed in this
case, nor filed replication to the answers, although more than two

terms-of the-court had elapsed since filing of the same."
The rule referred to is, "if the.plaintiff shall 'not reply to, or set
for hearing any plea or demurer baore the second term of the court
after filing the same, the bill may be dismissed, with costs."
No
plea had been filed in the case, and the demurrer filed had been
overruled, so that the rule did not applyto the case as it stood at the
time of the dismissal. The rule can only apply to demurrers and

pleas technically so called.

And there is no other rule of proceed-

ing which authorized the decree of the court. The complainant
may, if he choose, go to the hearing on the bill and arswer.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the cause is re.

manded for further proceedings.

Amos KENDALL, PLAiN=y IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM B. STOKES, Luoius
W. STOOKTON, AND DANrrL MooRE, suRivoRs oF RicHArD-C. STO'cKTON, DEFENDANTs IN ERROR.

[The reader is referred to a former case betwee'n these parties, reported
in 12 Peters, 524. The decision of the court in the present case is so intimately
conpected with the facts ' u both, that it is impossible to give a clear account.
of the principles established, without a reference to those facts.]
After the decision in the former case Stokes, &c., brought a suit against Keudall, which rested ultimately on two counts, viz., the first and fith. The first
claimed dax.ages for the suspension, by Kendall, on the books of the Postoffice Department, of certain credits which had been entered by his predecessor. The fifth, for the refusal, by Kendall, to credit Stokes, &c., with the
•amount awarded in their favour by the solicitor of the Treasury.
The damages claimed in the first count constituted a part of the reference to
the solicitor, as shown by the plaintiffs below intheir own evidence.
After a reference, an award, and the reception of 'the money awarded, another
suit cannot be maintained on the original cause of action, upon the ground
that the party had not proved, before the refiree, all the damages he had
sustained, or that his damage -exceeded the amount which the arbitrator
awarded.
The acts complained of were not ministerial, but were official acts, done by
Kendall in his character of postmaster-general. Apublic officer, acting from
a sense of duty, in a matter where he is required to exercise discretion, is not
-liable to an action for an error of judgment.
With regard to the fifth count, the application for thd mandamus covered the
same ground as that taken iu this count. Both rested on the refusal of Kendall to pay a sum of money to which Stokes, &c., were lawfully entitled.
But where a party has a choice of remedies for a wrong done, selects one, proceeds to judgment, and reaps the fruits of his judgment, he cannot afterwards
proceed in anofher suit for the same cause of action.,
This is espicially true where the party has resorted to a mandamus, because it
is not issued where the law affords a party any other adequate mode of redress. To allow him to maintain another suit for the same cause of action

88

SUPREME COURT.
Kendall v. Stokes et al

would be inconsistent with the decision of the court which awarded the
mandamus.
Evidence of special damage was improperly admitted, under'the circumstances
of the case in the court below.

THis case was brought up,by writ of error, from the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Columbia, sitting for the
county of Washington.
The Supreme Courtof the United States having abfirmed (12 Peters, 524) the decision of the Circuit Court, awarding a mandamus
agaist Amos Kendall; application was made by Stokes, &c., to
Kendall, that the sum of money mentioned in the proceedings should
be carried to their credit on the books of the department. Kendall
declined to interfere in the matter, upon the ground that the "1auditor" had chaTge of the books, and that he himself had no power to
settle claims, and no money to pay them with. On the 30th of
March, 1838, a peremptory mandamus was issued by the Circuit
Court, commanding him to obey and execute the act of Congress
immediately upon the receipt of the writ, and certify perfect obe.dience to it on the 3d of April next.
On the 3d of April, Mr. Kendall addressect.a letter to the court,
sa ng that he had communicated the award of the solicitor of*the
Treasury to the auditor, and received from him official information
that the balance of said award had been entered to the credit. of the
claimants, or the books.
In October, 1839, Stokes, &c,,.brought a suit against Kendall.
Th declaration consisted of five counts, three of which were abandoned after a verdict and motion in arrest of judgment. The two
remaining- were the first and fifth.
The first count averred; in substance, that the plaintiffs,'with
Richard C. Stockton, deceased, under and in the name of said
Richard, were contractors for the transportation *ofthe mails of the
Unmited'States, by virtue of certain contracts entered into between
them and'the late William T. Barry, then postmaster-general of the
United States. That the said William T. Barry, as postmastergeneial, did cause certain credits to be iven, allowed, and entered in
the books, accounts, and proper papers m the Post-office Department,
in favour of the plaintiffs and said Richard, as .uch mail contractors,
under and in the name of said Richard. That the defendant, Oar
succeedingMr. Barry in the. dffice of postmaster-general, wrongfully,
illegally, maliciously, and oppressively caused said items of account,
so entered, and credited, and allowed, and upon which payments
had been made, to be suspended on the books, accounts, and papers
of the Post-office Department; and did cause said plaintiffs and said
Richard, under, and in the name of said Richard, to be charged on
said books, papers, and qccounts, with said several items and sums
of money, amounting to $122,000.
The 5th count averred the passage of a private act of Congress,

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

89

Kendall v. Stokes et' al.

entitled "An act for the relief of Win. B. Stokes, Richard C.-Stockton, Lucius W. Stockton, and Dauijel Moore," by which the solicitor
of the Treasury was authorized and required to 'determine on the
equity of the claims of them, or any of them, growing out of certain
alleged contracts between them and Mr. Barry, and by which the
postmaster-general was directed to credit them with such amounts
as might be awardedrpursuant to the act. This count also averred
the actual rendition of an award by Virgil Maxcy, then solicitor of
the Treasury, for the sum of $162,127 05, in favour of Richard C.
Stockton, as the representative of himself and the .plaintiffi below,
and the refusal of Mr. Kendall to comply fully with, the terms of the
award, by crediting them with the full amount awaked.
The cause came on for trial at November term, 1841, which resulted in a verdict for the plainiffs..
After the'reidition of the verdict .aforesaid, the defendant produced
the following certificate by the said jurors, and prayed the court to
be permitted to have the same entered on the inuites of the court,
to which the court assented,
"We, the jurors, empannelled in the case of William B. .Stokes
and others v. Amos Kendall, and in which cage we have this day
rendered our verdict for the plaintiffs for $11,000, do hereby certify
that said verdict, was not'founded on any idea that the defendant
performed the acts complained of by the plaintiffs, and for *whichwe
gave damages as above stated, with any intent other than a desire
faithfully to perform the dirties of his "office of postmaster-general,
and protect the public interests committed to his charge; but the said
damages were given by us on the ground that the acts complained
of were illegal, and that the said sum of $11,000 ivas the amount
of actual damage to plaintiffs estimated by us to have resulted from
said illegal acts."
Upon the trial the defendant tooli three bills of exceptions.
The 1st exception was to the competency of the evidence to sustain the action. The evidence offered by the plaintiffs was:
1. A transcript of the record in the 'mandamus case. '
2. The report of Virgil Maxcy,'solicitor of thd Treasury.
^
3. Sundry letters and documents.
4. Oral testimony relating to the partnership.
The defendant offered four prayers to the court, praying instructions to the jury that the defendant was not responsible to the plaintiffs in the right in .which they then sued under the ist count; that
he was not liable under the 5th count for refusing to comply with so
much of the award of the solicitor as he, on the ground of want of
jurisdiction in the said solicitor, refused to comply -with; that he was
not liable for consequential damages;, and that the plaintiffs had no
joint right of action.
All of which prayers were refused by the court, to which refusal
the defendant excepted.
VOL. I1I.-12
] 2

90

SUPREME COURT.
Kendall v. Stokes et al.

2d Bill of Exceptions.
The defendant then offiered in evidence sundry depositions and
papers:
1. The depositions of Andrew Jackson, Martin Van Buren, and
B. T. Butler.
2. Correspondence between Mr. Kendall and the attorney-general.
3. The attorney-general's opinion, Docement No. 123, 26th Congress, 2d session, House of Rep. Ex. Doe. page 101.0.
4. Letter from the solicitor of the Treasury.
5. Reports of post-office committees of Senate and House.
6. The evidence of Francis S. Key, Esq.
Upon all -ihich evidence the defendant founded four prayers:
1. That plaintifli were not contractors.
2. That defendant was not liable if he acted -from a conviction
that it was his official duty*to set aside the extra allowances.
3; That he was not liable if he acted from a conviction that the
solicitor had no lawful jurisdiction to audit and adjust the items, &c.
4. That he was not liable for any of his acts, if the jury believe
that he acted with the bonmtfide intention to perform duly the duties
of his office, and without malice or intention to injure and oppress
the plaintiffs.
All of which prayers the court refused to grant, and to the refusal
the defendant excepted.
3d Bill of Exceptions.
The plaintiffs offered evidence to prove their special expenses and
losses, such as counsel-fees, tavern-bills, discounts, &c., to the admission of which evidence the defendant bbjected; but the court
overruled the objection and allowed itto be given. To which overruling the defendant excepted.
The case came up upon all these grounds.
'Dent and Jones, for the plaintiff in error.
Coxe, for defendants.
Dent laid down the following propositions:
1. That the official acts complained of in the declaration amount
to nothing more than a breach of contract, and a refusal to pay money due by contract and award.
2. That these acts, with vhat motives, aggravations, or consequences soever accompanied, lay no ground for an action, sounding,.
in damages, as for an official or personal tort or misdemeanor.
3. But as the case is now presented by the record, it is a concessum, that the defendant's motives for the acts complained of were
clear of all malice, self-interest, and intention to vex, harass, injure,
or oppress'iha plaintiffs, and pioceeded from no other intent than a
desire faithfully to perfom the duties of his office, and to protect the
public interest committed to his charge; and that if the acts complained of we're in truth illegal, or in any way a transgression of his

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

91

Kendall v. Stokes et al.

public duties, (which is altogether denied,) they resulted from
an honest mistake and misapprehension of the authority and duties
of his office; consequently, the broad question is no v presented,
whether an honest misapprehension of the 'rights 6f the plaintiffs below, and a contestation of those rights, under' the influence of honest
mistake, and-in the manner and form appearing by the declaration
and evidence in the cause, be an official or personal tort or misdemeanor. We maintain the negative of this question.
4. If the plaintiff; have shown, either in pleading or in evidence,
any cause of action, still we except to all the evidence of special damage pretended to have been sustained by the plaintiffi, in consequence of the defendant's refusal to allow and pay them the everal
sums of money pretended to be due under their contract---such as
discounts and usury paid by them for money borrowed, expenses of
travel) large fees to counsel, tavern-bills, and other expenses incurred
in pursuit of their claim against the Post-office Department. We
maintain that the only measure of damages for withholding money
due, (whether on public or private account,) is the legal interest on
the sum due.
5. That all right of action (if any such ever existed, which is denied) for the pretended misfeasance complained of in the first count,
was completely extinguished and barred by the act of Congress authorizing the solicitor of the Treasury to settle and adjust the claims
of the plaintiff; and R. C. Stockton, or any of them) for the extra services, &c., in the act mentioned, and by the full and final settleiment
.and adjustment of the same by the solicitor, as shown by the plaintiffs.
6. That all right of action (if any such ever existed,. which is denied) for the pretended nonfeasance complained of in the 5th count,
(to wit, the non-payment of a certain portion of the solicitor's award,)
was extinguished and barred by the plaintifil' election of their remedy
by mandamus, and the result of the procedure on such mandamus,
as shown by the plaintifsh.
7. That the defendant, as postmaster-general, had authority, and
was prmd fade justified, by the'circumstances of the case, for both
the
of pretended misfeasance and nonf!asance complained of:
1st, acts
for originally
contesting their claims for the pretended extra ser-.
vices afterwards referred to the solicitor of the Treasury; and 2dly,
the solicitor of the Treasury had exceeded the
for maintaning thate
scope of the authority committedto hin by the act of Congress, in
allowing certain claims not within the terms of the submission to his
award, as defined in the act of Congress; and, consequently, for refusing to pay so much of the solicitor's award as allowed such inadmissible claims.
8. That there is a fatal isjoinder of parties in thi action; inasmuch as the plaintifi, by their own sho ing, both in pleading and
in evidence, have no such joint rights of contract or action as they
have sued on in this case.

92

SUPREME COURT.
Kendall v. Stokes et al.

9. That from their own exhibit of the original contracts, under
which all the plaintiffs' claims arise, taken in connection with the acts
of Congress. relating to the premises, the plaintiffs' own case, upon
their own showing, absolutely concludes against any such joint rights
of contract and action 'as are asserted in the first count.
'10. That from their own exhibit of the awards of the solicitor of
the Treasury, referred to in their 5th count, their case, uponi their
own showing, equally concludes against such joint rights of action as
are asserted in the 5th count.
Consequently, the evidence of 0. B. Brown ought to have been
rejected,- as incompetent and inadm sible; and the court ought to.
have allowed the several instructions asked by the defendant in regardto such
jointmaintain
rights.
1i. We
generally, and without exception, that the points
of evidence, and of law, raise'd by the defendant in the course of the
trial,, and in arrest of judgment, (as set forth in. 'the several 'bills of
exceptions and 'motions in arrest of judgment, already referred to,)
ought to have been sustained by the Circuit Court, and were erro-.
neously overruled.by that court.
Dent went largely into' the history of the case, ref'err.ng to many
of
'whichthat
havethebeen
Hi tien took
of1"5("Str,95)
act mentioned.
and contended
points,documents
thepublic
up the
mae the potaergnea
f 185, (3' Stry 985,)
the revenue
oficer
of the
the of4thallsection
Story, 1630.
e posaster-gener
See alsoa.3disbursing
Made
of
the department.
act of March 3d, 1817; 2 Story, 1091, 5th section of the aqt of
April 21st; 1808; Gidley v..Palnerston, 7. J. B. Moore, 91-, 108;
3 Brod. & Bingh. 275 7 Com. Law Rep. 434.
On the tlr point he cited 1 East, 555, 558, 'and 564, note;
11 Johns. 114.
Tle fourth point he thought too clear to be discussed.
On the fifth and sixth points he contended that th6 plaintiffs were
precludel'from this action, by ha'ing already elected their remedy.
2 Win. Black. edition of 1828, 779, 827; 4 Rawle, 287-99;
17 Pickering, 7-14; 6 Wheat. 109;. 1 Salk. 11; 2Bos. & P.ul.
71; 7 Johns. 21; 8 Johns. 384.
The evidence which the plaintiffs introduced in this case is the
same which they brought before the solicitor to'obtain his award,
and also inthe mandamus .case; and this may be shown under'a
plea of the general issue as well as under a plea in bar.. Young
v. Black. 7 Cranch, 565.
(oxe, 'for defendants in. errok, referred to numerous documents to
show that there was no misjoinder of parties; that they had all been
recognised, as joint contractors; He denied that it was a concessum
that'ere was no malice; on the contrary, it is averred in the declara*tion. He. denied also that the merits of this case had ever ben
,settled.' They were n6t 'by the solicitor of the Treasury, whose.

JANUA4Y TEAM, 1845.

93

Kendall v. Stokes et al.

province it was to decide on the legality or illegality, of Mr. Kenali's cohduct in suspending the payments. They were not settled
in the mnandamus case, which related to an entry which Mr. Kendall refused to make. The Circuit Court directed him to make it,
and. the Supreme Court affirmed the decision. 12 Peters, 609.
Having disposed of some preliminary objections, Mr. Coxe proceeded to discuss the liability of public officers to pay money withheld,
and cited 6 T. R. 443; 3 Wils. 443; 2 Kane, 312; 6 Mun. 271;
11 Mass. 350; 3 Wheat. 346; 2 Oranch, 175; r T. R. 493; 7 Mass.
282; 2 Win. Black. 1141; 5 J6hns. 282; 9 Johns. 395; 13 Johns.
141; 1 Cranch, 137; 10 Peters, Swartwout's case.
The defendants' conduct was illegal. See 15 Peters, case of Bank
'of Metropolis; 9 Clarke &- Finnelly Rep. 251, 278, 283; Lyndhurst-s opinion, 284; Ld. Brougham's opinion. 287--303, as to
malice; 310, Ld. Campbell'sopilon.
Jones, in reply and conclusion, referred to several parts of the
record to show.that there was not such a partnership hs would enable
the plaintiffs to sue5 and to othek parts to show that malice in Mr.
Iendall was wholly out of the case. This destroyed all claim for
consequential damages.
He then discussed what constitutes an illegal act,-in a public
officer, so as to make hiin liable in. damages for withholding money,
and referred to Story on Agency, 308, sect. 305; 1 Cranch, '345:
Upon what grounds actions ex delicto have been maintained
hgainst a public officer, he referred to 1 East, 562, 568;. and to
show what description and quality of 'officers 'are liable to this action,
he referred to the case of Gidley v. Ld. Pahnerston, ill.
If the action be really founded upon a fa m of contract,.yet,'being
mixed up with tort, every defence,
aganst
.oog the form ex con(ractu, is good against the tort. 1 Tsithasse, 172; 8 Durn. &
East, '335.
An acton will lie against a public officer only when the duty. to
be performed'is wholly ministerial, and never in a case where judgment is to be. exercised.* United. States v. Bank of Metropolis,
15 Peters, 403.
As to the mandamus case, Mr. .Kendall 'did not disobey, for the
extra allowance extended only to the end of the first quarter of 1835.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The record in this case is very voluminous,, and contains a great
mass tf testimony, and' also many incidental questions of law not
involving the merits of the case, which were raised and decided' in
the Circit Court, and to which exceptions were taken by th plain-.
tiff in error'. But both parties have expressedtheir desire ttnat the
controversy should now be terminated by the judgment of this court;
and :that the leading principles which imust ultimately decide the
right of the parties should. now be settled; .and that the -case should

94

SUPREME COURT.
Kendall v. Stokes et aL

not bu disposed of upon any technical or other objections which
would leave it open to further litigation. In this iew of the subject it is unnecessary to give a detailed statement of tht proceedings
in the court below. Such a statement would render this opinion
needlessly tedious and complicated. We shall be batter understood
by a brief summary of the pleadings'and evidence, together with the
particular points upon'which our decision turns; leaving unnoticed
those parts of the record which can have no influence on the judgment we are about to give, nor vary in any degree the ultimate
rights of the parties.
At the time of the trial and verdict in the Circuit Court the declaration contained five counts. But atter the verdict was rendered, the
plaintiffs in that court, with the leave of the court, entered a nolle
proseqzi upon the second, third, and fourthi and the judgment was
entered on the first and the fifth. It is only of these two last mentioned counts, therefore, that it is necessary to speak. The verdict
was a general one for the plaintiffs, and their damages assessed at
$11,000.
The first count states that by virtue of certain contracts made with
William T. Barry, while "he. was postmaster-general, and services
performed under them, the plaintiffs on the 1st of May, 1835, were
entitled to receive and have allowed to them the sum of $122,000,
and that that sum was accordingly credited to them on the books of
the Post-office Department; and that Amos Kendall, the defendant
in the court below, afterwards became, postmaster-general, and assuch illegally and maliciously caused the items composing the-said
amount to be suspended on the books of the department, and the
plaintifis to be charged therewith: whereby they were greatly-injured, and put to great expenses, and suffered in their business and.
credit.
The fifth count recites the act of Congress of July 2d, 1836, by
which the solicitor of the. Treasury was authorized to settle and adjust the claims of the plaintiffs for services rendered by them under
contracts vith William T. Barry, whild he was postmaster-general,
and which had been susperided by Amos Kendall, then postnaster6general, .and to make them such allowances therefore asy.ur.w a full
examination of all the evidence might seem right and according to
principles of equity; and the" postmaster-general directed to credit
them with whatever sum or sums of money the solicitor should decide to be .due to them, for or on account of such service or cbntract; and after this recital of the act of Congress, the plaintiffs pro.
ceed to aver that services had been performed by them under dontracts.;with William T. Barry, while he was postmaster-general, on
whicl. their pay bad been suspended -by Amos Kendall, then post-'
mater-general, and that for these claims the solicitor of the Treasury
allowed the plaintiffs large sums of money amounting to $162,727 05;
that the defendant had notice of the premises, and that it became his

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

95

Kendall v. Stokes et. al.

duty as postmaster-general to credit the.plaintiffs with this sum; but
that he illegally and maliciously refused to give the credit, by reason
whereof the plaintiffs were subjected to great loss, their credit impaired, and they were obliged to incur heavy expenses in prosecuting
their rights, to their damage in the sum of $100,000.
The defendant plead not guilty, upon which issue was jQined.
At the trial, the pl~intiffs offered in evidence the record of the
proceedings in the mandamus which issued from the Circuit Court
upon their relation on the 7th day of June, 1837, commanding the
saii Amos Kendall to enter the credit for the sum awarded by the
solicitor. It is needless to state at large the proceedings in that
suit; as they are sufficiently set fbrth in the report of the case in
12 Peters, 524 ;- the judgment of the Circuit Court awarding a peremptory mandamus having been brought by -writof error before the
Supreme Court, and there affirmed at January term, 1838. Various
papers and letters were also offered in evidence by the.plaintiffs to
show that the alluances mentioned in the declaration had been
suspended by the defekdant ; and that after the award of the solicitor, and~before the original mandamus issued, he had refused tocredit $39,472 47; part of the sum awarded, upon the ground that
the items composing it were not a part of the subject-matter referred;
And upon which, as the defendant insisted, the solicitor had no right
to award. Other papers and letters were also offered showing that
after the judgment of the Circuit Court awarding a peremptory
mandamus had been affirmed in the Supreme Court, the. plaintifi"
demanded a credit for the above-mentioned, bala~ce on the 23d ofMarch, 1838: that the defendant declined entering the credit,
alleging that a recent change in the post-office law had placed the
bo6 an accounts, of the department in the custody of the auditor; and some. difficulty having arisen on this point, the Circuit
Court, on the 30th of March, 1838, issued a mandamus commanding the postmaster-general to enter the credit on the books of the.
department; and to thi writ the defendant made return on the 3d
of A ril, 1838, that the said credit had been entered by the auditor
whohad the legal custody of the books.
The whole of. this evidence was objected to by the defendant,
but the objection was overruled and the testimony given to the jury.
And upon the evidence so offered by the plaintiflfs bef6re any evidence was produced on his part, thd defendant moved for the followinginkrction from'the court:
'The defendant, upon each and every, of the plaintifi' said
counts, severally and. successively prayed .the opinion of the court,
and their instruction to the jury that the evidence so as aforesaid
produced and given on thepart ef the plaintiffi, so far as the same
is competent to sustain such count, is not competent and/sufficient
to be left to the jury as evidence of any act or acts don&or omitted
or refused to be done by the defendant which legally laid him liable

96

SUPREME COURT.
Kendall -v. tokes. et aL

to the plaintiffs in this'action, under such count, for the consequential
damages claimed by the plbintiff in such cor°ut."--Thi instruction
was refused and the defendat excepted.
The question presented to the court by this motioi in substance
was this :-Had. the-plaiftiffs upon the evidence adduced by them
shown th'mselves entitled in point b' law to maintain their action
for the causes stated in their declaration upon the breaches therein
assigned, assuming that the jury believed the testimony to be true?.
The instruction asked for was in the riature of a demuirrer'to the
evidence, 'and'in modem practice has, in some of the'states, taken
the place of it. In the Maryland courts, from which the Circuit
Court borrowed its practice, :aprayer of this description at the time
of the cession of the District and,for a long tim before, 'was a familiar proceeding, and-a demurrer to eiidence seldom, if ever, resorted
to. And the, refusal of the court was equivalent to an instruction'
that the plaintiffs had shown such a cause of action as would
authorize the jury, if they believed the evidence, to find a verdict
-in favour of the plaintiffs, and to assess-damages against the defend,ant for the causes of action stated in the declaration.
. Now the cause of action stated in the first count is the suspension,
-by the defendant, of the allowances made by his predecessor in
office; and of the recharge of sums with v'hich" the plaintiffs had,
been credited by Mr. Barry when he was the postmaster-general.
And it appeared in evidence, 'by the proceedings in the mandamus,
that the plaintiffs being unable' to settle with the defeidant the dispute between them on the 'subject, they applied to Congress for
relief; that upon this application a law was passed referring the
ihatter tb the solicitor of the Treasury, with directions that he should
inquire into, and detehinine the equity of these claims, and make
them such allowances therefor as might seem right according to .the
principles of equity; and that the postmaster-general should credit
them with whatever sums of money, if any, the solicitor should
decide to be due; hat the plaintiffs- assefited to this referince, and
offered evidence before the solicitor that they were entitled to the
allowances and credits claimed by them; and that, from the conduct of-the postmaster-general, in suspending and recharging these
allowances and credits, they*had b~en compelled 'to .pay a large
dmount in discounts afd interest, in order to carry on their bumhiess ; and that-the solicitor had finally determined in fivour of their
claims, and alwarded to them the sum hereinbefore mentioned, giving
them, as appears in his report to Congress, interest on the money
Wiheld from them; and also, that, before this suit was brought,*
they had obtained a credit on the books of the department for the
whole sum awarded by the .solicitor.
Assuming, for the sake of the argument, that an action might in
the first instance have been sustained against the postmaster-general,
can th.e plaintifsi still support a suit upon the original cause of.

JANUARY

TERM, -1845.

97

Kendall t. Stokes et aL

action? It was not a controversy between the plaintiffs and Amos
Kendall as a private individual, -but between them and a public
officer acting for and on behalf of the United States. If they had
sustained damage, it was the consequence of his act, and the question of damages was necessarily referred with the subject-matter in
controversy, out of which that question arose. It was an incident
to the principal matters referred, and therefore within the scope of
the reference; and it is not material to inqoire whether damages for
the detention of the money were claimed or not, or allowed or not.
In point of fact, however, the plaintiffs did claim interest on the
money withheld as a- damage sustained from the conduct of the
postmaster-general, and offered- proof before the solicitor of the
amount of discounts and interest they had been compelled to pay;
and, moreover, were allowed, in the award, a large sum on, that
account, which was paid to them as well as the principal sum.
The question, then, on the first count is, can a party, after a reference, an award, and the receipt of the money awarded, naintain a
suit on the original cause of action upon the ground that he had not
-proved, before the referee, all the'damages he had sustained? or
that his damage exceeded the amount which the arbitrator awarded?
We think not. The rule on that subject is well settled. It has been
decided 'in many cases, and- is clearly stated in Dunn-v. Murray,
9 B..& C. 780. The plaintiffi, upon their own showing, therefore,
were not entitled to -maintain their action on the first count, and:the
'Circuit Court ought so to have directed the jury.
The judg.ment upon this count is also liable to another obje~tion.
equally fatal. The acts complained of were not what the law terms
ministerial, but were official acts done by the defendant in his character of postmaster-general. The declaration, it'is true, charges
thaf they were maliciously d6ne, but that was not tae aund upon
which the Circuit'C6urf sustained the action eithet on this count or
the fifth. For,' among other instructions moved for orJbehalf of the
defendant, (he court.were requested to direct the jury:
"That, if they found from the evidence 'that the postmastergeneral acted from the conviction that he had lawful power. and
authority .as postnaster-general- to. set aside -the extra allowances
made by his predecessor, and 'to suspend and recharge the same,
and from a conviction that it was his official duty to do so; and if
the plaintiffs suffered no injury'from such official act, but the inconveniences necessarily resulting therefrom, that the defendant was not
liable."
This instruction was refused; the court thereby.in effect giving
the jury to understand that however correct and praiseworthy the
motives of the officer might be, he was still liable to the action, and
chargeable with damages.
We are not aware Qf any case in England or in this country itt
which it has b~en held that a public officer, acting to the-best of his
VoL. Ir.-ia

I

96

SUPREME COURT.
Kendall v. Stokes et a].

judgment and from a sense of duty, in a matter .ofaccovnt with an
individual, has been held liable to an action for an error of judgmexit.
The postmaster-general had undoubtedly the right to examine into
this account, in order to ascertain whether there -were any errors in
it which he was authorized to correut, and whether the allowances
had in fact been made by Mr. Barry; and he had a right to suspend
these items until he made his examination and formed his judgment.
It repeatedly and unavoidably happens, in transactions with the
govemment, that money due to an indivfdual is withheld from him
for a time, and payment suspended in order to aford an opportunity
for a more thorough examination. Sometimes erroneous constructions of the law may lead to the final rejection of a'c]aim in cases
Wiere it ought to be allowed. But ;t public officer is not liable to
an. action if. he falls into error in a case where the act to be done is
not-merely a ministerial one, but is one in relation to which it is his
duty to exercise judgment and discretion; even although an individual may suffer by his mistake. A contrary principle would indeefd
be pregnant with the greatest mischiefs. It is unnecessary, we think,.
to refer to the many cases by which this doctrine has been established.
It was fully recognised in the case of Gidley, Exec. of Holland, -V.
Ld. Palmerston,. 7 J.'B. Moore, 91, 3 B. & B. 275.
The case in 9 Clark &Finnelly, 251, recently decided in England,
in the House of Lords, has been much relied on in the argument for
the defeiidant in error. But upon an examination of that case it will
be found that it hatd been decided by the Court of Session in Scotland, in a former suit. between the same parties, that the act complained of was a mere ministerial act which the party was bound to
perform; and that this judgment had been affirmed in the House of
Lords. And the action akainst the party, for refusing to do the act,
was maintained, not upon the 'ground only that it was ministerial,

bu'.because it had. been decided to be such by the highest judicial
tribunal known to the laws of Great Britain. The refuaal'for which
the suit was brought took place after this.decision; and the learned
Lords, by whom the case was decided, held that the' act of refusal,
under such circumstances, was to be regarded as wilful, and with
knowledge; that the refusalto obey the lawful decree of a court of
justice was a wrong for which the party, who had sustained injury
by
it, might maintain an action, and recover damages against the
wrongdoer. This c'.se, therefore, is in no respect in conflict with he
principles above stated; nor
th
e ewithdow
nlaidin the case of
Gidley
v. case
Lt. Palmert
In the
before uson.the"settlement of the accounts of the plaind properly belonged to the Post-office Department, of which the
t
his duty
waserror
stood it an
the lawHethen
the head.uponAsthem.
defendanthiswas
exercise
judgment
committed
in SUp-

posing-that he had a right to set aside allowances for services rendered
upon which his predecessor in office had finally decided. But as the

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

99

Kendall v. Stokes et al.
case admits that he acted from a sense of public duty and without
malice, his mistake in a matter properly belonging to the department
over which he presided can give no cause of action against him.
We proceed to the fifth count. But before we examine the cause
of action there stated, it will be proper.to advert to-the principles
settled by this court ifi the case of the mandamus hereinbefore referred to. The court in that ease, speaking of the nature and character of the proceeding by mandamus, winch had been fully argued
at the bar, said that it was an action or suit brought in a court of
4ustice, asserting a right, and prosecuted according to the forms of
judicial proceeding; and- that a party was entitled to it when- there
was no other adequate remedy; and that although. in the case then.
before them the plaintiffs in the court below might have brought their
action a ainst the defendant for damages on account of his refusal to
give the credit directel by the act of Congress, yet as that remedy
might not be adequate to affox redress, they were, as a matter of
right, entitled to pursue the remedy by mandamus.
Now, the former case was between these same parties, and the
wrong then complained of by the plaintiffs, as well as in-the case
before us on the fifth count, was the xefusal of the defendant to enter
? credit on the books of the Post-office Department for the amount
awarded by the solicitor. In other words, it was for the refusal to
pay them a sum of money to-whichi they were lawfully entitled. The
cre-dit on the books was nothing 'more than the form in which th6
act of Congress, referring the dispute to the solicitor, directed the
payment tebe made. For the object and effect of that entry was to
discharge the plainiffs from so much. money, if on other accounts
.hey were debtors to that amount; and .if no other debt was due
from them to the United States, the credit entitled them to receive a
damus
wasthe
brought
to recover
it, and
te plaintiffs
show by
their
once from
government
the amount
credited.
The action
of manevidence that they did recover it in that suit. The gist of the action
in that case was the breach of duty in not entering the credit, and it
was assigned by the plaintiffs as their cause of action. The cause
of action in the present case is te same; and the breach here
assigned, as well as in the former case, is the refusal of the defendant to enter this credit. The eviaence to prove th plaintiffs' cause
of
action is also identical in both actions. Indeed, the record of the
proceedings
in the mandamus is the testimony relied on to sh w the
refusal of the postma~ter-gerneral, and the circumstances under which
he refused, and the rasons he assigned for it. But where a party
has a choice of remedies for a wron done tto him, and he elects
one, and proceeds to judgment, and obtains the fruits of his judgment, can he, in any case, afterwards proceed in another suit for the
same cause of action? It is true that in the suit by mandamus the
phlaintiffs could recover noing beyond the amount awarded. But
they knew that, when they, elected the remedy.

If the goods of a

100

SUPREME COURT.
Kendall v. Stokes et a].

party are forcibly taken away under circumstances of violence and
aggravation,lhe may bring trespass, and in that form 6f action recover
'iot only the value of the property, but also what are called vindictive damages-that is, such damages as the jury may think proper
to give to punish the -wrongdoer. But if instead of an action of trespass he elects to bring trover, where he can'recover only the value
of the property, it never has beeri supposed that,, after having prose.
cuted the-suit to judgment and received the damages awarded him,
he can then bring trespass upon..the ground that he could not in the
action of trover give evidence of thi 6icumstance of aggravation,
which entitled him to demand vindictiv;e damages.
.The same principle is involved here. *The plaintiffs show that
they have sued for and recovered in the mandamus, suit the full
-amount of -the award; and having recovered the debt they nowv
bring another suit upon the same cause of. action, because in the
former one 'they could not recover damages for the detention of the
money. The Jaw does not permit a party'to be twice harassed for
the same. cause of action; nor suffer a plaintiff-to proceed, in one suit
to recover th(Nprincipal sum of money, and then support another to
. recover, damages for the detention. This principle -will be found to
be fully recognised in 2 Bl. Rep: 830,'831.; 5 Co. 61, Sparry's case;
Com. Dig. tit..action,K, 3. And in'the-case of Moses v. Macfarlan,
2 Burr. 1010, Ld. Maosfield held that the plaintiff having a right to
bring an action of assumpsit for-money had and received to his use
on a special action on the case on an agreement, and having made
his elei6n by bringing assumpsit, a recovery in that action would
bar one on the agreemenit, although in the latter he could ndt only
-recover the money claimed in the action of assumpsit, but also the
costs and expenses he -had been put to. The case before us falls
directly
the rule stated by Ld. Mansfield.
.This within
objection applies with -still more force, when; as in this instance, the party.has proceeded by mandamus. - The remedy in that
form, originally, -was not regarded as an action.by the party, but as
a prerogative writ commanding the execution of an act, where otherwise justice would be obstructed; and issiing only in cases relating
to the public and the government; and it was never issued when the
party had any other remedy. It is-now regarded as an action by the
party on whose relation it is granted, but subject still to this restric-'
tion, that it cannot be granted to a party where the law dffords him
- any other adequate means of redress. Whenever, therefore, a mandamus -is applied for, it is upon the ground that he cannot obtain
redress in any other form of proceeding. --And to allow him to bring
another action for the very same cause afler he has obtained the
benefit of the mandamus, would not only be harassing the defendant
with two suits for the same thing, hut would be inconsistent'with
the grounds upon which he asked for the tiandamus, and inconsistent.
also with the decision of the -court which awaided it. If he had

JANUARY. '1TE M, 184..

101

Kendall v. Stokes et aL

another remedy, which was incomplete and inadequate, he abandoned
it by applying forand obtaining the mandamus. It is tredted both by
him and the court as no remedy. Such was.obviously the meaning
of the Suprenie Court in the opinion delivered in the former suit
between the~e parties, where Ahey speak of the action on the case,
and give him the mandamus,'because the other form of action was
inadequate to redress the injury, and they would not therefore require
th6 plaintiff to pursue it. And they speak of the action on the. case
as an alternative remedy;'not as accumulative-andin addition to the
mandamus. In the case in 9 Clark,& Finnelly, 251, hereinbefore
mentioned upon another point, the attorpey-general in his argument
said that no other action would lie in any case where the party was
entitled to a mandamus. And Ed.Campbell, in giving his judgment,
said that this proposition was not ulliversally true; .ai~d at any rate
applied only to the original grant of the mandamtr and not to the
remedy. for disobeying it; and that no case had been cited to show
that an action would not lie for disobedience to the judgment of the
court. This remark upon the proposition stated by the attorney;general shows clearly that in his judgment you could-not resort to a.
mandamus and to an action on the case also for the same thing: If
the postmaster-general had refused to obey the mandamus, then
indeed an action on the case might have been maintained against
him. But the- present suit is not brought on that ground. No
q. stion is presented here as to the necessity of pleau a former
recovery in bar, nor as to the right to offer it in- evidence upon the
general issue. The point in the Circuit Court did not arise upon the
pleading of the defendant, nor upon evidence offered by him; but
upon the case made by the plaintif in which, by the same evidence
that proved thei original.c~use of action, theyalsb provedthat they
had already
sued the
defendant
and'was
recovered
a judgment,
which
had been
satisfied
beforeupon
thisit,suit
brught.
And we
above mentioned ought
first
instruction
the
upon such evidence
think
to have been given on- ifis (te fifth) count, as it appeared by the
they had'anlready recovered satisfaction
plaintifs' own showing, that
for the injury complained of in their declaration.
The case before us is altogether unlike the cases referred to -in the
argument, where, after a part has been admitted r restored to an
office, he has maintained an action of assumpsitor case t6 recover
th emoluments which had been received by anoter, or of'which he
had been deprived duing the time of his exclusion. In those cses
the exclusion from offi~e
the cause of action in the mandamus towas
recover the emoluments and
and the suit afterwards brought was

profits to which his admission or'resoration to office showed him to
hsumpsit
or case would
have been.legally entitled. The action of
secured his right to the
office&nor haveheeclsonfomofie
not havethrestored
*thto the anauswa
facinhim
cue
court, if this action had been re'case before
profits. But in e use
of the mnandamus, the plaintifs
stead
inte
sorted to in the first

102

SUPREME- COURT.
Kendall- v. Stokes et al.

could have recovered the amount due on the award, and the damages
arising from its unlawful detention must have been assessed and recovered in. the same verdict. Clearly, they could not have maintained one action on the case forthe amount-due, and then brought
another tb recover the damages; and this, not because both were
actioins on the case, but because they could fot'be permitted to harass the, defendant with two suits for the same thing, no matter by
-what name the actions may be technically called, nor whether both
areactions on thlcase, or one of them called a mandamus.
But if this action could have been maintained, we think that most
of the evidence admitted by the Circuit Cotirt to enhance the damages
ought not to have been received. -It consisted'chiefly o discounts
and interest paid by.the plaintiffs before the award of. the soliditor,
and of expenses, on journeys and tarern, bills, and fees paid to counsel for proseduting their claim -before Congress and the courts. It
appears by the record that before this evidence was-offered the court
had instructed'the jury, that malice on the part f the d~fendant was
not necessary to support the -actin; and it appears also that the
jury, which found the verdict and assessed the damages, declared
that their verdict was not-founded on any .idea that the defendant
did the acts complained of, and for which they ave the damages of
$11,000; with any intent.other than a desire faitbfiy to jierform the
duties of his office *of postmaster-general, and to protect the public
interats committed to his charge, and that the damages were given
-on the ground that his acts were illegal, -and that the sum given was'
the amount of the actual damage estimated to have resulte from his'
illegal acts.
We have already said that although this action is in formufor a
tort, yet in substance and in truth it'is an action for the non-payment
of money. And upon the. principles upon which it was supported
by the court, and decided by the jury, if there had been no probeed.
ing by mandamus to bar the action, the legal measure of damages
upon the fifth count would undoubtedly have been the amoinit due
on the award, with interest'upon it.
The testimony, however, appears to'have been offered chiefly under the first count, because the items for' interest paid, and travelling
and'tavern expenses, for the most'part, bear dates before the award,
and also a portion of the fees of counsel., The evidence was certainly inadmissible under this count, since, for the reasons already given,
rio'action could be maintained-upon it, if there had been no previous
proceeding by mandamus, and consequently no damages could be
recovered upon it. But independently of this cbnsideration, and
even if the action could have been sustained, there' are insuperable
objections to the admission of this testimony. In the first place, no
special damages 'are laid !in the declaration; and in that form of
pleading no damages are recoverable, -but such as the law implies to
have accrued from the wrong complained of; 1 Chit. Pl..385: and

JANUARY TERM, 1845.
Ex parte Dorr.

108

certainly the layr does not imply damages of the description abQve
stated. But we think the evidence was not admissible in any form
of pleading. In the case of Hathaway v. Barrow, 1 Camp. 151, in
an action on the case for a conspiracy to prevent the plaintiff from
obtaining his certificate under a commission of bankruptcy, the court
refused to receive evidence of extra costs incurred by the plaintiff in
a petitiozf before the chancellor. In the case of Jenkins v. Biddulph,
4 Bingh. 160, in an action against a shiriff for a false return, the
court said they were clearly of 6pinion that the' plaintiff was not
entitled to recover the extra costs he had paid.; that, as between the
attorneys and their clients, the case might be different, because the
attorney might have special instructions, which may warrant him in
incurring the extra costs, but that in a case like the one before them
the plaintiff could only claim such .costs as the prothonotary had
taxed. And in the case of Grace -. Morgan, 2 Bingh. N. C. 534, in
an action for a vexatious and excessive distress, the plaintiff was not
allowed to recover as damages the extra costs in an action of replevin
which the plaintiff had brought for the goods distrained; and the
case in 1 Stark. 306, in which a contrary principle had been adopted, was overruled.
These were stronger cases for extra costs than the one before us.
The admission of the testimony in relation to the largest item in these
oharges, that is, for interest paid by the plaintiffs, amounting to more
than $9000, is still more objectionable. For it appears from thestatement in the exception that the very same account had been laid
before the solicitor, and had induced Lim, as he states in his report
to Congress, to make the plaintiffs an allowance in his award
for interest, amounting to $6893 93. And to admif. this evidence
again in this suit was to enable the plaintiff; to recover twice for the
same thing; nd after having received from the United States what
was deemed by the referee a just compensation for this item of
damage, to recover it over again from the defendant.
There are several other questions stated in the record, but it is
needless. to remark upon themn, as.the opinions already expressed.
dispose of the 'whole case. The judgment of the Circuit Court must
be reversed.
[Forthe dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice McLtAN, see App. p.800.]

Ex PzaiTn Domt
Neither the Supreme Court, nor any other court of the United States, or judge
thereof, can issue a habeas coq_ to-bring up a prisoner, who is in custody
under a sentence or execution of a state court,' for any other purpose than to
be used as a witness.
An application for a writ of erior, prayed for without the authority of the party
concerned, but at the request'of his friends, cannot be granted.

