266

SUPREME COURT.
White v,.
Nicholl

et al.

.law. •Thnis is done by, the act of 1839, if.it be what it is now construed to be. In this aspect, then, I say, the act is unconstitutional
and void.' It not only strikes down the rights of the citizen, but it
inflicts a blow on the judicial power of the country. Itunites, in
the same department, the executive and judicial powef. And on a
subject the most delicate and interesting; and one which, of all
others, may most easil be converted into an engine of oppression.
In this government, balances and checks have been carefully adjusted, with a view to secure public and private rights; and any
departure from tis organization endangers all. We have less to
apprehend from a bold and open usurpation by one department of
the government, of powers which belong to another, than by a more
gradual and insidious course. In my judgment, no'principle can
.be more dangerous than the one mentioned in this case. It covers
from legal responsibility executive officers. In the performance of
their ministerial duties, however they may disregard and trample
upon the rights of the citizen, he can claim no indemnity by an
action at law. This doctrine has no standing in England. No
ministerial officer in that country is sheltered from legal responsibility. Shall we i1 this country be less jealous of private rights
and of 'the exercise of. power? Is it not our boast that the law is
paramount, and that all are subject to it, from the highest officei of
the country to its humblest citizen? But can this be the case if any
or every executive officer is clothed with the immunities of the
sovereignty? If he cannot be sued, what may he not do with impunity. I am sure that my brethren are as sincere as I am, in their
convictiofis of what the law is, in this case; and I have only to
regret, that their views do not coincide with those I have stated.

RoBEnf WHITE,

PLAiNIFF IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM S. NIcHoLLs, WIL"ROBINSON, OTHO M. LiNTHiUSm, EDWARD.M.,LINTnIcum, RAPHAEL SEM1S, PA1VL STEVENS, AND CHARLES C. FULTON, DEFENDANTS
IN ERROR.
LU

ROBERT WHITE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. HENRY AbDISON, DEFENDANT
IN ERROR.

In an action for a libel it is not indispensable to use the word" maliciously" in the
declaration. It is sufficient if words of equivalent power or import are used.
Every publication, either by writing, printing, or pictures, which charges upon,
or imputes to, any lierson that which fenders him liable to punishment, or
which is calculated to make him infamous, or odious, or ridiculous, is prima
faie a libel, and implies malice in the author and publisher towards the person concerning whom such publication is made.
Proof of malice cannot, in these cases, be required of tne party complaining,

JANUARY -TERM, 1845.

267

White v. Nicholls et al.
beyond the proof of the publication itself; justification, excuse, or extenuation,'if either can be. shown, must proceed from the defendant.
Privileged communications-are an exception; and the rule of evidence, as to
such cases, is so far changed as to require of the plaintiff to bring home to
the defendant the existence of malice as the true motive of his conduct.
Privileged communications are of four kinds:
1. Wherbver the author and publisher of the alleged slander acted in the bona
fide discharge of a public or private duty, legal or moral, or in the prosecution of his own rights or interests.
2. Any thing said or written by a master in giving the character of a servant
who has been in his employment.
3. Words used in the ourse of alegal or judicial proceeding, however hard
*they may bear up6n the party of whom they are used.
4. Publications duly made in the ordinary mode of Parliamentary proceedings,
as a petition printed and-delivered to the members of a committee appointed
by the House of Commons to hear and examine grievances.
But in these cases the only effect of the change of the rifle is to remove the
usual presumptionl of malice. It then becomes incumbent on the party complaining-to show malice, either by the construction of the spoken or written
matter, or by facts and circumstances donnected with that matter, or with
the situation of the parties, adequate to authorize the conclusion.
Proof of express malice, so given, will render the publication; petition, or proceeding, libellous. Falsehood and the absence of probable cause will
amount to proof of malice.
The jury being the tribunal to determine whether this malice did or did not
mark the publication, the alleged libel should be submitted to them, and the
court below erred in withholding it.

TuEmS two cases depended upon the same facts- and principles,
and were argued together. They were brought up by writ of error
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of

Columbia, sitting for the county of Washington.
The facts were these: .
On the 26th of June, 1841, the following letter was addressed to
the President of the United.States:
"Georgetown, Tune 26th, 1841.
"Srn :-We feel it to be-proper to put you in possession of the
grounds upon which the removal of Mr. Robert White, from the
office of collector of customs of this port, is requested. You will
recollect the humiliating and prostrate condition of the people of
this distfict about a year ago, when the majority then in Congress
determined to destroy ourbanks as a punishment upon -usfor having
avowed and published our preference for-the candidates of the great
whig party. -It was in that dark season that Mr. White determined
to desert his own fellow-citizens, and to join in the war -which was
making upon their liberties and interests. Being then seeking office,
he thought to recommend.himself to the executive -by getting up a
memorial here, which was to be used as a sanction or approval, on
the part of- our own citizens, of the mad- policy which had been
adopted by their oppressors. -7He, then joined with an assemblage
of forly-eight persons in getting up a memorihl, which none but
themselves could be induced to sign. These memorialisto, with
about five exceptions, could not be identified by name or residence,

2868

SUPREME COURT.
White v. Nicholls et a.l

as citizens of Georgetown. Upon inirestigation, they proved to be
apprentices and journeymen, holding a transient residence in the
town. Being few in iiunrber, they were no doubt believed by Congress, and persons at a distance, to be a select body of experienced
merchants and traders, who had some knowledge of the subject of
their memorial. A copy of the memorial has been deposited with
the secretary of the.Treasury.
"It is, perhaps, one of the vilest calumnies ever issued by a band
of thoughtless and irresponsible individuals, many of whom would
have shrunk from such a proceeding had they the necessary intelligence to comprehend its enormity. 'But not so with Mr. White.
He knew the paper contained an unmitigated slander. He seemed
to be willing to blacken the character of those of his fellow-citizens
who had been intrusted -with the charge of our banks, if that would
only secure an appointment when all other methods had failed him
for the preceding twelve years.
"'Werevolt'at the idea of Mr. White being permitted to remain
inan office whose emoluments flow from the laboiir and enterprise
of he very men whose business auid families he sought to involve
in ruin."It is impossible that he can ever regain the confidence of'men
whom he abandoned and vilified in the darkest hour of their existence. His expulsion from office is no less demanded by his unpar-"
donable conduct, than by justice to the wounded feelings of an
injured community.
"About the same time, June, -1840, with the persons under his
influende, and as is believed at the request of an office-holder of
grbeat political rancor, Mr.VWhite procuredDr. Duncan, then a member of Congress from Ohio, to deliver a speech here in abuse of
General Harrison. The speech was, perhaps, the very vilest that
was ever delivered~by that gentleman.
"It was. so satisfactory to Mr. White, who acted as vice-president
on the occasion, that he immediately rose, and moved the doctor a
vote of thanks, and a-request that the speech be furnished for publication. The resolutions which were adopted unanimously on the
occasion, were nearly*as calumnious as the speech itself.
".We refer ypu. to-the Globe newspaper of the 3d July last, for
an official account of the proceedings of the meeting. Wewill only
trouble you with a few sentences, that you may have some idea of
the character of those extraordinary proceedings. They denourced
General Harrison as ' the nominee of the bank whig federalist, abolitionist and anti-masons,' 'an abolitionist of fraud and concealment,' as being guilty of pursuing a course 'grossly insulting to
common sense, honesty, and decency, by shrouding himself in
darkness, I of courting dangerous fanatics, and countenancing
them (abolitionists) in their mad warfare upon our peace, our pro-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.
White v. Nicholls et al.

269

perty, and our lives,' and I that he should be -treated as an abolitonist.'
"1Mr. White's was the place where the leading men of his party
nightly assembled up to the close of the presidential election, and a
respectable citizen declares, that since Mr. White's appointment hecirculated 'busiels' of the ' Globe.' He declines to give his
formal 6vidence in the case, upon the ground, that he being a near
neighbour of Mr. W.,he is unwilling to disturh the friendly personal
relations existing between them.
"Such was Mr. White's general political violence, and the unhesitancy with which he descended to the lowest means to secure the
favour of the late administration, that no one doubted -here but
that he would be dismissed-when the presentparty came into power,
and no one can be more astonished than Mr. White is himself at his
retention to the present time.
"We will alsQ take this opportunity to state, that we desire Mr.
H. Addison to be appointed to the office of collector in Mr. White's
place, whose abundant testimonials and recommendations of our
business citizens are already on file with the secretary of the
Treasury.
"With great respect, your obedient servants,
CHAS. C. F.LTON,
E. M. LiNTHICUMf
RAP. SM 'EnS2,
0. M. LiNTICUM,
wM. ROBINSONr,
Wm. S. NIcHoLLs,
PAUL STEVENS.

"P. S. It is further proper to state, that. Mr. Addisbn's recommendations, filed with Mr. Ewing, are signed by every citizen in
town, with a single exception, who have regular business to transact
at the custom-house."
On some other day, which was not stated in the record, the following letter was addressed to the secretary of the Treasury.

"Hon. THomAs EWING,

-

&cretary of the Treasury.
"Sim-Earnestly requesting, as we now do, the immediate removal of Mr. Robt. Wite from the office of coll'ector of this port,
we feel it proper to state candidly our insuperable objections.to his
continuance in that office.
"At a time when a remorseless and vindictive majority in Congress were makidfg a ruinous-war upon all the business interests of
the country, by destroying con#dence. in its banking institutions,'and
when that majority were pursuing a most persecuting and ruinous
-course towards the d~fenceless and unofihnding people of this District, Mr. White, for the mere purpose of evidencing his unscrupuz2

270

SUPREME'COURT.
White v. Nicholls et al.

lous zeal in behalf of the late administration, and to secure its favour,
did, under the most offensive circumstances, sign a violently abusive..
and insulting memorial to Congress, urging in the most decided
manner the adoption of fatal measures toward the banks, by compel-lingthem to continue specie payments, when all the institutions of
Virginia and Maryland had suspended, and thereby to be compelled to
pursue a destructive and burdensome policy towards their customers.
"The object of the memorial was to place something in the hands
of our enemies, in the shape of an approval of their course, which
was a gross deception.
" This offence becomes greatly aggravated, when it is known that
Mr. White knew, so far as, his acquaintance went with his co-signers, that they were too grossly ignorant of business and banking to
be able to express any opinion upon such a subject. The other
signers, with the exception of two or three, were so wholly unknown
to our business community, that Mr. White would not be able to
identify their persons or designate their residences. It is to be taken
for granted that they were merely transient labourers, or persons so
young as not then to havie attracted the notice of our -odestand most
observing citizens; some of them, indeed, *ere known to be small
apprentices. So offensive and unpopular-was the whole proceeding,
that with the exception of, perhaps, two others, (from whom our
community would look for nothing better,) Mr. White was the only
respectable man of, business who could be induced to put his name
upon the paper. His own purpose could never have been detected,
.but for his appointment as collector, which so soon succeeded. Mr.
White's experience in trade had taught him the indispensable necessity there was for banks in this District, and his intelligence and
-sense of justice were outraged by the declaration that our banks
should be made to pay specie, when the banks of our neighbouring
states of Virginia and Maryland found it wholly impracticable so to.
do. He knew the gentlemen who had the management of our bars,
directors as well as officers, and he knew they stood without reproach,
and that it was wholly impossible that they could be influenced by
the low and disreputable designs which his memorial so unscrupulously charged to them. It was a vile slander, put forth so as to
evade the responsibility of a legal prosecution. We think he is the
last man to hold an office, the" value of which depends upon the enterprise and integrity of the very men whose families and business
were alike to be overwhelmed with ruin at his special'application.
"His removal from an office thus obtained would be doubly gratifying to us, when we know his family does not need its emoluments
for support.
"It can be proved that at his store, in which the.office of collector
is kept, there were almost nightly assemblages of the principal party
men who sustained the late administration, and particularly during
the fall of 1840.

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

271

White v. Nicholls et al.

"A highly respectable man has stated that, during the latter'part
of the late canvass, he saw Mr. White preparing immense numbers
of the newspaper called the 'Washington Globe,' for rirculatibn,
but, being a neighbour of Mr. White, he is unwilling to appear as a
witness against him. The language the gentleman used was, that
'he had seen bushels of the Globe so prepared, since his appointment.
as collector.'
"Under these circumstances, we would inost respectfully ask you
to dismiss Mr. White from the office, and that our fellow-townsman,
Mr. Henry Addison, who has, already been recommended by most
of us, may be appointed to fill it.
',
WM. HA x
'0. M. Lm'rmcUrM,
Jos. SMOOT,
RaHAEL SEMEs,
Wx. RoninusOx,

Ww. S. NiCHOLLS,

E. M. Lnm-umu,

JAims Tnmos,
JEREMIAH ORME,

PEREGjIRE WAWVZD,
ROBERT OLuw;
W,. JEWELL,
WILIAM L1x),

T. P. WAUGH,
EDW. S. WRGHT,
J. RIEY,
W. S. RINGGOLD,

WM. LANG,
J. I. STML.x."
S. E. SCOTT,
On the 19th of June, 1841, the following letter was addressed to
the secretary of the Treasury.
" Georgetown, .Jrwn 19, 1841.
" Sm :-About a year ago, the Hon. A. D)uncan, of Ohio, was invited, by a number of office-holders and others, to hold a political
meeting in this town.
"The meeting was held on the 26th June, 1840, and the proceedings were published in the Globe, on or about the 3d July.
"Mr. Robert White, our collector of customs, acted as one of the
vice-presidents of the meeting, and who was so tickled and delighted with Duncan's vile 6alumnies upon Gen. Harrison, thdt he arose
and made the motion that he (Duncan) would prepare the speech
for publication. The address was said to be one of the vilest, and,
if you desire it, a copy shall be presented for your perusal. The.
persons who moved the resolutions, and one of the secretaries, were
clerks in the departments.
"We now Ifand you a copy of two of the resolutions, and an account of the proceedings, which we present separate, for your immediate and convenient notice, referring you at the same time to the
very lengthy account. to be found in the Globe of the date mentioned above.
"You will see that the copy now sent applies the following lanuage to General Harrison: cNominee of the bank whigs, federalists, abolitionists, and anti-masons." 'Fraud and concealment'"rossly. insulting common sense, decency, and honesty, by shioud:
ig himself in darkness'--'of courting dangerous fanatics, and

SUPREM9 COURT.
White v. Nicholls et al.

countenancing them in theii -mAd warfare upon our pPace, property,
and Jives.' 'He should be treated as an abolitionist.'
"."This conduct of Mi. White, in connection with his signature
being placed-to the infamous anti-bank memorial, which a delegation from town left-in.your hands- when. Mr. White's removal-was
first- requested, renders him eitremely offensive to the whigs here.
We agaixvwould take the opportunity to remind you of our earnest
hope that Mr. H. Addison will be appointed to that office, whose
full and abundant testimonials are already in your possession.
"The continuance of Mr. White is mortifying to every real friend
of thie administration here.
" With respect, your obedient servants,
0. M. LINTMCDM,
WMLIAM LARD,

W.. S. NICHOLLS.
"Hon. T. EwiwG,
'ecretary ofthe Treasury.".
.On the. 21st of September, 1841, the following letter was addressed to the President.
""Georgetown, Sept. 21, 1841.
SniSm'-Should anypapaer be sent to you, contradicting in any
manner a representation made'by ourselves to the conduct of Mr.
White, late collector of this port, we will -thank you to let us have
a- copy of 'that .paper, with the names appended thereto, that we
may see in what particular, and to whit exteAt, our statement may
iave -b.een contradicted, and by whom.
"With great regard we are, sir, your obedient servant,
0. M. LINTHicum,

W. RoBinsoN,

WnItIAM LAIRD,
RAP.
SEMMES,
Wa'. S. NICHOLLS.
D. FNGLisH, Jun.

9To-His Excellency, Jolm Tyma, Presidet U. S."
.And -uponhe923d of September, 1841, thq following:
"Georgetown, September 23, 1841.
"Sm-7:--I feel .bound to make to you this statement, in consequence of a report which has reached my ears, that Mr. Robert
White, with Captain Carbery, and B. Mackall, are endeavouring,
by their joint inflience and representations, to injure me in your
estimation. It-is due no-less'to.you, than to my friends and myself,
to write y6u this letter, in which I-shall omit every thing that is not
really necessary to be stated.
"As-to Mr. White I feel tarranted in assuring you that the
representations made ,.yoi -by my friends in regard to him, are
true throughout, of which fact they will be able to furnish you the

JANUARY. TERM, 1845.

273

-White v. Nicholls et al.

abundant evidehce. No man of character here.would hazard the
intimation that these' friends of mine would possibly descend to a
misrepresentation In regard to Mr. White or any one else.
"FFor all they have stated they can produce a mass of evidence.
too strong to be doubted.
"In relation to Mr. Carbery, I have only to referyou to my letter to you of the 23d August, and its accompanying papers. I
would take much.pleasure in furnishing you with any further expla-nations in regard to that case that you might desire.
"It is wholly impossible that Mr. Mackall can have the least
ground for complaint, as I can supply you -with.abundant proof thai
there was no employment here for him whatever, nor any prospect
of rided of his services at any time hereafter. All the labour.performed by him, since I have been appointed to this office, was
merely-to sign a receipt for his 'pay. He, or his friends for him,
appealed to the secretary.of the Treasury, and seemed to have succeeded in producing an impression on his mind that I was meditating an unjust proceeding towards Mr. Mackall-all this, too, before
I had sad or written a word -to Mr. Ewing up.on the subject. He
wrote me that Mr. Mackall must not be removed until I assigned
him -my reasons for so doing. I obeyed his order; but, on the
very, day I wrote him that there were no service for Mr. Mackall to
perform, Mr. Ewing instructed me to discohtinue the office. Mr.
Mackal still complained to the secretary, who wrote me to come to
the Treasury Department. I went, and after hearing my statement,
he said he was then satisfied that he had done what was proper in
the case. I did not feel at all hurt at the course taken by Mr.
Ewing, -because I knew that the whole matter had been grossly
misrepresented to him. I had been waited upon by a friend, who
earnestly remonstrated with me upon the subject of abolishing Mr.
Mackall's office; as he said that, in that case, the influence of a
powerful family connection would be immediately wielded against
me. I did not exactly see the propriety of being governed by such
apprehensions, and took the course prompted by my sense of duty,
and relying cbnfidently upon the favourable result of an impartial
investigation, should any difficulty occur.
"There is but little revenue collected at this port, and I felt it to
be my duty-to conduct its business with as little expense as possible. I found the expense of this office, as far as Georgetown is
concerned, to be
-..
.
.
.
.
$2,573 34
"I have reduced these expenses to the sum of
1,045 00
-

"Thus saving to the government
$1,428 34
without at all impairing the efficiency of the service. The whole
expense of the office for Georgetown is now absolutely $45 a year
less than Mr. Mackall was receivirig for doing nothing. The expenses in.Washington I have reduced twenty-five per'cent. I did
VOL. III.-35

_

.

SUPRE1E COURT.
White v. Nicholls et aL

this from a sense of duty, but. not without .anticipating much mis-"
representation and abuse. •
"I am, sir, -with great regard, your obedient servant,
"H. ADDisoN.
"To the P ESPENT."
On. the 18th of Novefiiber 1841, Robert White brought the two
suits mentioned in the titling 6f this statement.
•The declaration in the suit against Nicholls and others contained
two counts.
The first was as follows: "And whereupon the said plaintiff, by
Brent. & Brent and Francis S. Key, his attorneys, complains,,for that
whereas previous to, and at the time.of committing of the several
grievrnces by the defendants as hereinafter mentioned, the plaintiff.
was collector'of the customs for the district, and inspector of the
revenue for the port of Georgetown inthe District of Columbia ; yet
the defendants well knowing the premises, but greatly envying the
happy 'state and condition of the-said plaintiff, and contriving, and
wickedly and maliciously intending to injure the plaintiff in his
good name, fame, and credit,-and .to bring him into.public scandal,
i4famy, and disgrace,, 'with anid amongst all his neighbours, and
otter good and worthy citizens bf the county aforesaid, and to cause
the plaintiff to be removed from his said office, heretofore, to wit:
on the 20th June, 1841, -at Georgetown, to wit, at the county afore:
said, falsely, wickedly, and maliciously did compose and publish,
and caused to be composed and published, of and concerning the
plaintiff and of and concerning his aforesaid office, and- of and conierning the plaintiff's conduct in his said office, for the purpose, of
procuring his removal from said office, a certain" false, malicious,
and .defamatory libel, containing, amongst other things, the false,
scandalous, maliciousi defamafory, and libellous matter of and conerning the plaintiff, and of and c6ncerning his aforesaia'office, and
of and concerning his- said plaintiff's conduct inhis said office, for
the purpose of procuring the removal of the plaintiff from his said
office, as follows, that is to say: (then followed a copy of the letter
to the President of June 26, 1841, down to the words "delivered
by that gentleman,"' with the necessary. innuendoes.)
* The second count was as follows: "And 'whereas also the said
'defendants, intendin and contriving -to cause the plaintiff. to be
removed from the 6fl1ce then'held by him, as stated in the first count
heretofore, to wit, on the J26th June, 1841, at Georgetown, to wit,
'at the county aforesaid, falsely, wickedly, and maliciously, did compose and publish, and caused to be comnposed and published, of
and concerning the plaintiff, and of and concerning his office, and
of and concerning his conduct in his shid office, anc for the purpose
of procuring his removal .from bis-said office, a certain other false,
malicious, and defamatory libel,. Containing, amongst other things,
the following false,. scandalous, malicious, defamatory, and libellous

-

JANUARY- T]t M, 1846.276
W.hite v. Nicholls et aL

matter of and concerning .the plaintiff'-and of and concerning his
said office, and-of and concerning his, said plaintiff's, conduct in his
said office, and for the purpose of -procuring the plaintiff's removal
from his said office, that is to.say:
"1Mr. White's was the-place, &c.," (then followed th6 remainder
of the letter not included in the firstcount.)
The declaration concluded as follows:
"By reason of publishing of which said several libels, the said
plaintiff saith, that he -hath been and is greatly injured in his good
name, famedand credit, with and amongst all his neighbours, friends,
and acquaintance. And by reason of the publishing-of which said
several libels, thb plaintiff' saith that he was heretofore, to wit, on
the 12th day of July, 1841, at the cointy aforesaid, removed from
his office aforesaid, and was thereby deprived of the emoluments
and- income of said office, ariiounting to a lirge sim of money, towit, the shim f 'three. thousand dolars annually, and' hath been
otherwise greatly injpied, whereby the said plaintiff saith that he
bath damage, an4-d is the worse, to the valhe of twenty-five thousand
dollars; and therefore he brings suit, and so forth.'"BRENT &.BiNT,for plaintif.."
The dcclaration in the suit against Addison also contained two
counts, with no essential variation .from the above,
The defendants pleaded not -guilty, and in November, 1842, the
causes came on for trial. They were tried together, the same evidence and instractions prayed from the couit being common to
both. The jury, under the direction of the court, found a verdict
-of "not guilty," and the following- bills of exceptions show the
poiuts'of law which were raised and i-tled.
Plaintigf's1st Bill of -Eiieptions.
In the trial of these causes, the plaintiff, to. support the issues
on his part, offered evidence to show that he. was duly appointed fo
"the office set forth and -described in the declaration- on the 21st day
of July, 1840; 'and that he'was acting as such officer from that time
till the 9th day of July, 1841, when 'he was removbd from office,
and the: defendnt, Henry Addison, appointed in his place;_ .and
then furthei offered in.evidence a written paper, (viz., the letter to
'the.President,) and proved that the same was in the handwriting of
the defendant Addison, and that the gignatures thereto were in'the
handwriting, respectively, of the several defendants; that the said
Uapmer so written'and subscribed was sent'to the President of thenited States, and by him sent'to the Tre sury Department, where
it was filed on or before the 30th June, 1841, and kept by a clerk
of that Department having charge of such papers, and shown on
one*occasion t6 one person. by him-which person had called to
see it at the request of the plaintiff;- and also on another occasion
to another person.

V76

SUPREME COURT.
White v.-Niclrolls

et al.

"And the-plaintiff further offered evidence that one of the said defendants, whom he named, said, about the time of signing the said
paper, and before the plaintiff was turned out of o~ce, that the
plaintiff had signed a memprial against the banks in the DistrictI
and swore that he would have him turned out of office.
I "And also offered evidence that another of said defendants, also.
named, had. on one. occasion- said; after the said paper had been
sent to..the President, that he had made no charges 'ginst the
plaintiff; and on another occasion he stated he had made"dharges,
and that he could prove against the plaintiff more than he had sQ,
charged.
"And the plaintiff further proved that the said paper, so written
-and subscribed, was shown to a citizen. of Georgetown for the purpose of being subscribed by him, who refused so to do,:because he"
was not acquainted with all the facts stated in said paper.
." And the plaffitiffi upon the evidence aforesaid, offered thereupon
to read the said paper to the jury; but the court refused to allow the
said paper to be read in evidence to the jury.
"To -which refusal 'of the court the plaintiff excepts,'aid rays
the court to sign and seal this bill of exceptions, which is done ac'cordingly, this 3d day of January, 1843.

11 B.

TRUSTON,
[SEAL.]
'JAS. S. MonsnRi,. [tEAL.]"

Plainty1Ps.2dBill 6f Exceptions.
"And the plaintiff furtheroffered, after the evidence aforesaid in
former exceptions hadbeen given, to showthe malice of defendants in
writing signing, and presenting said paper, to xead the said paper,
and offered evidence in connection: therewith of the falsehood of the
charge therein, stated, which the Court also refused, and the plaintiff
excepts to said refusal, and prays the court to sign and seal this bill
of exceptions, whi'ch is done accordinly, this 3d January, 1843.
B.TuRUST,

[SEAL.]

"Jis. S. MoRsELL. [sn.]"

PlaintiffIs 3d Bill of Exception.
And the plaintiff; after the evidence was offered, as stated in the
first and second bills of exceptions, and mter the opinion had been
given by the court, as therein staied, then offered to prove by substantial evidence; for the purpose of showing malice in the defefidants in writing, signing, and presenting the sid paper, that the
charge -contained in the- said paper., of the plaintiff's having lost
the confidence, of the men from whose labours and enterprise the
emolumentsiof his -office. flowed, was false, malicious, and without
probable cause; that all the persons. doing business with *the said
plaintii, as such officer in his said office, auring all the time of his
continuing in office, were General Walier Snith, Henry-McPherson,
Jobn Hopkina, and Jabe'Travers--all whicli persons'.the -plaintiff

IANUARY TERM; 1845.

M7

White v. Nicholls et al..-'

now offers' as witnesses to prove that 'the plaintiff had never lost
their confidence, but that they always continued their confidence in
the plaintiff; and approved' of hi ondut as such officer. And also,
further to flsify the said charge, the plaintiff offers to prove that an
held in Georgetown,
inIFebruary,
1841 and
election 'was
commn
councilman
in said- town,
in which election
a 1842,
miajdrityforofa
the qualified voters of said town voted for the plaintiff; and he ws
tion of several of the defend nts..
elected
tothe
theplaintiff,
commonalso,
counci,
notwithstanding- the active opposiAnd.
further
offered to prove"that.the charges
in the said paper of the plaintiff's having descended
to the loweft
means to secure
apifocded
the
favour
of
the Jate
Doctor Duncan to deliver
administrations
and that
he
aspeech
in Georgetown
inthe
ause of General Harrisone and
the plaintif'..was the plaee
where the leading members of his party nightly
close of the presidential election; and that the assembled up to the
plaintiff, sine his-appointient to his said office,, had disributed
bushels of the Globe,
were false, malicious, and without probable'cause,
ny
producing
witnesses to falsnfy and disprove the said charges"
and showthat
there was -no foundation orprobable cause for sad charges.
courttowas
of opinion
thattosuch
ble,"But
evidence was inadmissiand the
refused
allow
the same
be given
in evidence t the
jur; to which refusal the plaintiff, by his.
counsel,
prays the court to sign and seal this bill of exceptions, excepts, and
which is done
accordingly, this -3d-of Janua r, 1843.

"W. Cacu,
[sn r.]
"Jis. S. Monss.r:r. [sE r.]"

-

r flintcio "s 4an
wBit of Exce
-yons.
"Inthe further trial of this cause, and'after offering
the evidence
tated in the preceding bills of exceptions,
and after theopinions
and decision" of the court as therein stated,
counsel, in order to show express malice, and the plaintiff, by his
ti wait of all probable cuse in the defendants, in writing, and
subscribinge and presenting, as that
before
tion-and
set out in the declaratoestated,-the
sane waspaper-writing
so written, subscribed
by such defendants, not for the purpose of claiming and presented
redress for a
grievance in the conduct of a public officerhut
maliciously, and
from private
pique and[
with
andshould
in order
the evidence
the said paper,
nowresentment,
to be offered,
gothat
to the
jury as eviofidence
malice on the partof the defendants by competentevidence
and the want' of probable cause for the charges
contained in said
paper, and in connection with such evidence
to ofanr the said paper
n
bi fiebtmlcosy
"Andfimvaeinth
the to
dfenants;
mn~evidece
the cndctofa
jury."by their councig,
bected to said evidence ;
and thereupon,
d
the court refased to allow the same to he given
for the
purpose above stated, or for anyther
purpose; to which the plaintif

278

SUPREME COURT.
White v. Niholls

et aL

by his counsel, excepts, and prays the court to sign and seal this
bill of exceptions, which is done accordingly, this 5th day of Janu1843.
Witness our hands and seals, this 5th day of January, 1843.
"B. THRuSTON,
[SEAL.]
"JAs. S. MonsnxL. [sEA.]"
Plaintrif's5th Bill of Exceptions.
"In the further trial of this cause, and after the evidence stated
in the preceding bills of.exceptions had been offered as stated, and
after the opinions and rejections of evidence as herein stated, the
plaintiff in support of the issues joined on his part, for the purpose
of proving a publication'of the libel *charged in the declaration on
the part of certain of defendants, whose names are signed to the
papers, now offered in evidence the following papers, (the seveful
handwritings -of the said defendants signing the same being admitted:)
" The letter to the secretary of the Treasury;
".The letter of June 19th, 1841;
"The letter of September 21st, 1841;
'by showing, from the said papers, that the said defendants had referred to and re-asserted the truth -of the. charges contained in the
said libel -charged ii the declaration; and that such reference and
re-assertion was not privileged, and was a publication of the libel,
for which said defendants were responsible in this action.
"And in the case against Henry Addison, the plaintiff, for a like
purpose, and to prove in the same way such a publication of the libel
charged in the declarati~n as hp was responsible for in this action,
offered in 'evidence a paper, admitted to be in the handwriting of
said defendant, Henry Addison, viz.: the letter of Septemb'er 23d,
1841.
"And .the defendants, by their counsel, objected tb the admissibility of said papers so offered in evidence.
"And the court sustained the said objection, and refused to allow
the said paper to be given.in evidence; to which opinion and refusal
the plaintiff, -by his counsel, excepts, and prays the court to sign and
seal this bill of exceptions ;, which'is done.accordingly, this 5th day
of January, 1843, as witness our hands and seals.
[sEA.]
"W. CitNCH,
"JAs. S. MORSELL. [SEAL.]"

To review the decision of the court on these several points of law
the present writ of error was brought.
.Kay and R. Brent, for the plaintiff in error.
Bradley and Coxe; f6(r he defendants in error.
.May, for plaintiff in error.
What is the law applicable to.the facis exhibited in this record?

JANUARY -TERM, 184.

279

White v. NichoHs et al.

It will hardly be denied that, in ordinary cases, the 'writing here
declared on would, in view of its terms and tendency, be considered
a libel, and the defendants to have acted maliciously, that is, with the
view to effect those consequences, to 'which the means they have
used naturally and obviously lead- "2 Starkie's Ev. 361..
But it will be, contended that this is dix g ed from the ordi-.
nary cases of libel, by reason of the occasion of writing and publishing it; it purporting to be a complaint about an official grievance,
and being addressed. to.the President of the United States, te proper
authoritny to redress it; that this is what is termed "1a privileged communication."
That there is such a description of libels, well classified by stable
legal distinctions, is admitted. They-are founded upon considerations of public policy and convenience, and do confer upon their
authors and publishers certain privileges.
Now what is the nature of a privileged commnilcation, and what
are'its legal incidents?
It may be defined to be a .writing published bonafide about a lawful occasion.
This lawful occasion may be fbund in the performance of a public
or private duty of a legal or moral nature-of the fair and honest fulfilment of such obligations as spring out of the social-relations of life;
as in the exhibition of articles of the peace before a civil magistrate,
or other communication in the way of a judicial proceeding; a petition about %apublic nuisance, or remonstrance presented by citizens
tothe proper authorities; an account of the character of a servant,
made by a.mister; 'a report on the character of an intended husband,
given by a brother to a. sister, &c.
But ese privileged libels are separated into two -classes.
The first are all such communications as-are presented in the course
of justice, and before a tribunal having power to examine into their
truth or falsehood.
The second class are all such as do not arise in the course of juh.
tice, and before a tribunal, &c.
Now, it is said to be the incident ofthe first cla~ss, that the occasion is an absolute bar to an action, even though the, libel be false
and malicious.
The incidents of the second class are, that the law only raises a
primafade presumption in favour of the occasion, which operates in
the nature of evidence', and supplies a primafade justification; and
also that, under the general issue plea, the motives of the defendant,
and the truth of the libel, may be given in evidence to the jury.
But there must be the concurrence of an upright intention along
with the lawful occasion. It must not be aju officious intermeddliT
with the rights of others, nor published through hatred and ill-wil.
It is the first requisite of this class of "privileged communications, "
that there be no taint of personal malice about it.

280

SUPREME COURT.
White v. Nicholls-et al.

A writing thus justified by the occasion and good - motives of its
authors, bestows upon th6m an irresponsibility to legal condemnation, even though it produce ijury to the rights of others.
This doctrine is.founded not only upon considerations of public
convenience, but also on a confidence in human motives, where they
are upright and pure.
-The law preferring to suffer the contingencies of occasional injury
that may happen to individuals, rather than by shutting thL door.to
the freedom 'of inquiry.and complaint upon the administration of
public affairs, the proceedings of courts of justice,- or the peiform.ance of moral duties, where done fairly and truthfully, and the wvellbeing of society should be prejudiced. Besides, thd party acoused
in such cases is not without redress. If he bp assailed unjustifiably
in a judicial, proceeding in a court, its dignity is offended and its
'censures secured; beside.s, the benefit of evidence to vindicat6 himself and disprove such charges is afforded. ..The true criterion of
the privilege in the first class, (wiich creates a bar to an action,) id
to be found in the power of the tribunal to afford this redress.., If
the libel be published- before those who cannot-afford this summary
redress, then the occasion does not bar an action, and the libel belongs to-the second class of privileged communications; 'and in all
these, if the libel be malicious in fact the privilege is gone, and the
pretext of the occasion only serves to aggravate the wrong.
.
.But the law in favour of. these occasions will not (as in ordinary
libels) imply-malice, but it must be proved. And this is the great
distinction.
There ar' two dnds of maliee, as Justice Bayley distinguishes in
4 Barn. & Cress. -255; malice in law, and malice in fact. The first is
inferred, thelast mustbe proved. Thle first is a legal. inference-from
all ordinary libels. The last is a legal requisite to maintain an actibn upon aprivilege.d libel; and when maliceh fact can be proved,'
the privilege that sirrounded the, libel,- and. in legal contemplation
purified it, is'stripped off, and the expose'd hbeller stands on the same
level with the rest of his kind.
Lord Mansfield said, in Buller's N. P. 8, "Malice is the gist of
-the action, which is not implied from the occasion, but must be dirdctly proved." .
And to sustain this sinniary of the general doctrine, are the following authbrities:
nglish. . 4-Reports, 14; 2 Smith, 3,; 1 Barn, &Ald. 239; 5 Barn.
& Ad. 648; 8 Barn. & Cress. 578; 1' Moody & Rob. 198; 2 Bing
barn's New Cases, 464; 1 Saund. 131; 2 Burrows, 808,
American cases and authorities. 2 Kent's Com. 22. In Massahusetts, 3 Pick: 383; 4 Mass. 168; 9 Mass.'264. New York,
5 Johns.' 34; 5 Johns. 524; 4 Wendell,- -135. ,Pennsylvania,
2 S6rg. & Rawle, 22; 4 Serg. & Rawle, 423. Maryland, 5.lIarr.
,&Johns. 459.
-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.
White ,. Nicholls

281

et al.

Now the case at bar must belong to the second class of privileged
communications, if indeed it be privileged at all. The President
could not afford any redress to the plaintif. - He has no li6wer to
compel 'the attendance. of.witnesse6, or to administer an oath. He
could not inquire in a judicial way ihto the-truth or falsehood of the
charges.' The plaintiff then turned to the Circuit Court 'for redress,
and brought his action on the case. But that court refused, as the
exceptions show, to allow him to read the libel to the jury, and to
prove it "false and without probable cause," and that the defendants were actuated by malice in fact, or "express malice." But
falsehood and want of probable cause are in themselves evidence of
malice in fact. 1 Moody & Rob. 470; 4 Bingham, 408; 4 Serg.
& Rawle, 423; 5 Harr. & Sohns. 458.
. But the privilege of this libel is very questionable. It prefers
charges not relating in' any wise to' the plaintiff.s official character.
It alleges political offences committed before his appointment to
office. It shows a personal aspiration after the office held by plaintifF. it is couched in terms of great asperity, and breathes through-out a spirit wholly incompatible with the honest purp6se of redressing a public grievance. The privilege is doubtful upon th'
face of the libel, and whether privileged or not was a-question for
the jury. 9 Barn. and Cress. 406; 2 Bingham, .408.
The fifth exception shows a reiteration of the'libel by the defendant Addison, after the plaintiff was removed from office. Then
there was no privilege, and such repetition -is a republication.
3 Stephens' -N. P. 2564, and Cases there cited.
I have nlow explored this record. Questions of the gravest consequences are presented by'it. They may well claim to be decided
by this the highest court in our land. The doctrine of "privileged
communications"
is hereonto the
be settled. There is seeng contrariety
of judicial opinion
subject in our country. Tpre cases
in 1 Saundersin n 6 Johnson, and in 2. Tyler, were approved by the
court below as establishing the irresponsibility of these defendants,
and will
be relied o here
n to sustain that position.
Unlder the free dispensations of our Constitution and laws, where
the ,greatest liberty of speech and of publication is allowed, and
where this liberty, under the heat of ;political passions, is ever

tending towards licentiousness, in assaults 'upon pbitical adversaries
who may be enjoying in office the fruits of party success, the questions here presentedbecome most interesting, and the decision that

your honours may pass upon them will ascertain the value of that
geat right, to this description of citizens, "of beieg seure in
their good reputation."

.r blo, for defendants.
If this action should'bemaintaind there will be no end to actions
for libels. The defendants were dissatisfied with a public officer
VoI. flI.-36

2 A2

22

SUPREME GOURT.
White v. Nicholls et al.

and complained of what they thought a grievance to the officer who
could redress it. If this course was not absolutely privileged, yet
it was o mrch so as to compel the plaintiff to show that the acts
were done without probable cause and with malice, and to charge
it so in his declaration. Buller's N. R, as cited, says that malice
aid falsehood are th6 gist of the action, but publication is also necessary. The case in 7 Term R. 110, 111, shows that the occasion
there justified the publication; and -this.is always a question for the
court. In I Barn. and Ald. 339, the jury determined whether or
not the words were used, but the question of occasion was reserved
for the court. In 12 Wendell, 410, 546, all the Amerihan authorities are siummed up. The great difficulty is to know how far the.
question of privilege goes. In this case the court below thought
that the -letters Were adressed to such' officers as were competent to
remedy the grievance. In-I Term R. 130, the. defendant pleaded
precisely what has been shown in this case. In 2 Tyler's (Vermont)
Rep. 129, 133, it was held that where the occasion made a petition
to the legislature necessary, no action would lie. If in this case the
defendants had published the lefter' to the President, no privilege
could have been pleaded, Kent's Coi. 22.
In 2 Serg. & Rawle, 23, the libel was read to the jury without
objebtion; but here we object that the plaintiff himself shows it to
be a case of privilege.
In 4 Serg. & Rawle 424, it was ruled that where. malice and
want of pro able cause were relied upon to take away the ground
of privilege, they nust be averred in the declaration.- So also
1 Wilson,.242; 2 Wilson, 304. All the exceptions in this case
.depend upon the first, for if the liel cannot, be read .the other.
papers cannot.Coxe, on same side.
What are the points in. the ease? (Mr. Coxe here examined the
several counts in the declaration.) The result of the whole is, that
a person belonging to one party charges some of the other party
with being guilty of a crime to effect his removal from office. The
communication charged as libellous, was addressed to the President,
and is not averred to have been ever published. That officer was.
vested with, the whole control of the subject. The paper was sent
to the secretary of the Treasury, from whom an agent of the plhintiff obtained it. There was no proof of pu~lication -whatever.
Some of the exceptions relate to mere matters of aggravation,
which were not admissible in evidence unless a ground of action
was laid. Publication is essential; and it must be proved before
the libel can be given in evidence. Starkie Ev. 351. -The defendants:are charged, it is true, with having shown the paper to
citizens of'Georgetown; but they had a right to show it for the pur-pose of. obtaining signatures. I Wendell, 547.
-

JANUARY TERM,-1845.

283

White v. Nipholls et al.

Was it a publication to send it to the President? It was not sent
for the purpose of injuring the plaintiff's character, but -solely for
the purpose of obtaining his removal from office. - It was a perfectly constitutional proceeding; if not; Congress should pass an
act to bum all the letters in the Departments. The President had
full and exclusive jurisdiction 6ver the- subject, and was the sole
judge of the propriety of the removal of-the plaintiff. His reasons
cannot be inquired into by the judiciary. 13 Peters, 255.
It is a well established principle, that when an action is brought
for an act which is in itself lawful, those matters, beyond. the act,
which make it criminal, must be averred in the declaration. For
example, in an action for keepiig a mischievous dog: it must be
averred that the dog was addicted to biting, and that the defendant
knew it to be so. In this case the defendants had aright to address
the President, and it must be averred that there was express malice,
and also a want of probable cause. If the paper had been printed
and handed about, it would have given a different aspect to .the
affair. In Stockdale's case) bie was not responsible as long as the
paper was confined to parliament. Generally, sending it to a third
party is a publication, but not in all cases; such as sending information about a servant, &c.
It is said that'tbe President could not have taken testimony, about
the matter. Suppose it to be so, and that his functions are imperfect, still his jurisdidtion over the subject-matter and power to act
accordimg to -hisjudgment cannot be denied.
Evidence- of malice cannot be given under this declaration.
Thereshould have been a special action on the case.
R. J. B-tent, for plaintiff, in conclusion.'
This declaration is in the usual form, if the paper is an ordinary
libel; but not, if the paper is one which the party was privileged to
send. On the face of the paper it is clear, that the removal of 'the
plaintiff was not asked for upon public grounds, because the acts
complained of took place before his appointment to office. He is
not charged with unfitness for office, but lidd up. to odium as a priv.ate individual. There was-a personal motive in all this. Addison
was to be appointed in his place. The motive is an important c6n.sideration. 2 Bingh. New Cases, 463.
The paper is actionable on its face, as it charges the plaintiff with
things which are calculated.to bring public odium upon him: such
as 11descending to the lowest neans," &c.
The declaration aveis special damage;' I Chitty's P1. 291, ed.,
1829 ; 3 Johns. Ca. 198. "
It has been said that the declaration is insufficient,.because it
does not aver express'malice. But it charges, that the acts were
done 1.falsely and maliciously;" Is not this eno'.gh? It does not'

284

SUPREME COURT.
White v. Nicholls er al.

aver, that the libel was published "in presence of divers citizens,"
btt it says, that it was "published," which is the usual form.
In 2 Bingham's New Cases, 273,-the declaration was the same
as in the present case.
In all the cases cited, the libel was read to the jury, but in the
court below it was shut out.
As to the question of pleading, see 4 Wend., 136"; 2 Burr. 812;
4 Bos. & Pul. 48. In the last case th'e.action was for defaming a
candidate for Parliament. The averment in the declaration was the
same as in this case, and the plaintiff recovered.
As to what is a sufficient averment, see Holt on Libels, 256;
2 Smith, 43. ,
Mr. Justiee DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
In the investigation of these cases it is deemed unnecessary to
examine seriatim the five bills of exceptions sealed by the Circuit
Court, and made parts of the record in each of them. The papers
declared upon s libellous, and the instructions asked of the Circuit
Court, are literally the same in both actions; the reasons, too, which
influenced the decision of the court pervade' the whole of these instriictions, and are prese ited upon their face.
I Before proceeding mote particulail" to consider the rulings of the
court upon these instructions, it may be proper to animadvert upon
a point of pleading which was incidentally raised in the.argument
for the defendants. in error; which point was this: that, assuming
the publication declared on as a libel to be one *hich would be
primafacie'privileged, the circumstances which would render it illegal, in other words, the. malice which prompted it, must be expressly averred. Upon this point the court will observe, in the first
place, that in cases like the one supposed in argument, they hold,
thatin describing the Act complained of-the word "'maliciously" -is not
indispensable to characterize it; they think that the law is satisfied
with words of equivalent power and import: thus, for instance, the
word "falsely" has been held to be sufficiently.expressive of a inalicipus intent, as will be seen in the authorities cited 2 Saund. 242 a,
(note 2.) But .the declaration in each of these cases charges the
defendants, in terms, "with maliciously and wickedly intendiilg to
injure the.plaintiff in his character,.and thereby to effect his )removal
from office, and the appointment of one of the defendants in his
stead; and with that view,'with- having f6lsely, wickedly, and maliciously composed and published, and having caused to be composed
and published, a false, malicious, iand defamatory libel concerning
the plainiff, both as 4 cifizen and an officer. The "averments in
these declarations appear to the court, in point of fact, to be full up
to the requirement insisted on, and to leave no' room for the criticism
attempted -with respect'to them.. But the defence set up for the defendants in error reaches much farther and to results infinitely higher

JANUARY TEDM, 1845.'

285

White v.-Nicholls et aL.

than. any thing dependent upon a nere .criticism upon forms of
pleading. It involves this issue, so important to society, viz,:.
How far, under an alleged' right to examine into the fitness and
,qualifications of men 'who are either in office or are applicants for
office-or, how far, under the obligation of a supposed duty. to arraign such men either at the barof their immediate superiors or that
of public opinion, their reputation, their acts, their motives or feelings
may be assailed with impunity-how far that law, designed for the
protection of all, has placed a certain class of citizens ithout the
pale of its protection? The necessity for an exclusion like Tbis, it
"will be admitted by all, must indeed be very stong to justify it: it
wll never be recognised for trivial reasons,. much less upon thos
that may be simulated or unworthy. If we look to the position of
men in common lfe,
Mwe see the law drawing providently around
them every security for their safety and their peace. It not only
forbids the imputation to un individual of acts which are criminal
and would sbject him to penal infliction; but, -regarding man as a
sympathetic and, socialreature, it willsmetimes take dogisance
of injuries ffecting him exclusively in that character.. It will accordingly give a claim to redress to him-who shall be charged with.
*what is calculated to -exclude him'frQm social intercourse; as, f6r
instance, 'with being the subject of an ihfectious., loathsome, and incurable disease. The principle of"the-law always implying injury,
-wherever the object or effect is the exposure of-the accused to crimlnal punishment or to degradation in society. These guardian provisions of' the law, designed, as 'ie have said, for the seeurity and
peace of persons in the ordinary walks of.private life, appear in some
Tespects to be extended still -farther in relation to persons invested
with official' trusts. - Thus it is said that words not otherwise, actionable, may form the basis of an action'when spoken of a party in respect of .bis office, profession, or -business Ayston v. Blagraye,
Strange, 617, and 2 Ld. Raym. 1269. Agair, in- Lumby v. Allday, 1 Crompt. &Jarv. 301, where words are sp6ken'of a person i.n
an office of profit, whicr have a natual, tendency to occasion the loss
of such office, or which.impute misconduct in it, they are actionable."
And this irinciple, embraces all temporal offices of profit or frustj"
without limitation :" 1 Starkie on Slander,. 124.
With regard to that species of defamation. which is effected y
'writing -or. printing, or by pidtures-'and -signs, and which is techniically denominated libel, although in general the'rules applicable toit.are the same which apply to verbal slander, .yet in other iespeWt
it is treated wiML a; sterner rigbur. than the latter; because it must
have been effected with coolness 'and aeliberation, and miist be more
-permanent and-'extensive in its op.eration than v@ords, which- are frequentLy the offspring of-sudden gusts of'passion, and soon may be
buried in oblivion: Rex v.Beau, -I Ld. Raym..414: . It folloks,terefore, that 'actions may-be. maintained for xdefamatory words pub-

'286

SUPREME -COURT.
White v. Nicholls et al.

lished in writing or in print, which would not have been actionable
if spoken. Thus, to publisLof a man in writing, that he had the
itch 'nd smelt of brimstone, has been held'to be a-libel. Per Wil'mot, C. J., in Villers v. Mousley, 2 Wils. 403. In. Cropp v. Hilney, 3 Salk-, Holt, C. J., thus lays do~n-thelaw "That scandalous matter is not necessary to make a libel; it is enough if the defendant induce a bad opinion to be had. of the plaintiff or makeliim
-contemptible or ridiculous?' And Bayley, J., eiclares in McGregor
v. Thwaites, 3 Barn. & Cres. 33, that "an action is maintainable
for slander either written or printed, provided the tendency of it be
to bring a man into hatred; contempt, or ridicule." To the same
effect are the decisions in 6 Bingh. 409, The Archbishopof .Tuam
V. Robeson; and in. 4 Taunt. 355, Thorley v. The Earl of Kerry.'
In-eyery instance of 'slander, either verbal or written, malice is an
essential ingredient: it must in -either be expressly or substantially
averred in the pleadings; and whenever thus substantially averred,
and the language, ither written or spoken, is proved as laid, the
law will infer malice until the proof, in the event of denial, be overthrown, or the. language i1self be satisfactoiily explained. Thedefence of the.defendants hi error, the defendants likewise in the Circuit
Court, is rested upon grounds forming, it is said, an established exception to -the rule in ordinary actions for libel; 'grounds on'which
the decision'of the Circuit Court is defended in having excluded
from the,. jury, under the declarations in these' cases, the writings
charged in them as libellous. These writings were. offered as evidence of express malice in the defendants. The exception relied
on belongs to a'olass'which, in the elementary tieatises, and in the
'decisions upon libel aid slander, have beendenominated privileged
communications or publications. We will Qbnsider, in the first place,
the peculiar character. of such communications, and the extent of
their influence upon words or writings as to whicli, apart from that
character, the law will imply malice: Sdcondly, we 'will examine
the burden or obligation imposed by the law upon'the party complaining to rinbve presumptions which might seem to be justified
by the occasion of such communications, and to'develope their true
nature. And' lastIy, we will compare the requirements of the law
with 'the character of the publication -before-us, and with he proceedins of the Circuit Court in reference thereto. The exceptions
found ih the treatises and decisions before alhlded to are such as'the
following: 1. Whenever the author and publisher of the alleged
slander acted in the' bona fide discharge of a public or.private duty,
legal or moral; or in fhe prosecutioh of his own rights'or interests.
For example, words spoen in confidence ad friendship, as a caution; or a letter written confidentially to persons who employed A.
as a solicitor, conveying chargds injurious to his professional character in th6 management of certain concerns which they had intrusted to him, and in which the writer of the letter was also interested,

IANUARY TERM, 1845.

287

White v.. Nicholls et a].

2. Any thing said or written by a measter ifi giving the .character of
a servant-who has been in his employment. 3. Words used in the
course of a legal or judicial proceeding, however hard they may
bear-upon the party of whom they are used. 4. Publications duly
made in the ordinary mode of parliamentary proceedings,'as a petition printed and delivered to the members of a committee appointed by the House of Commons to hear and examine grievanices.
But 'the terr "exceptions," as applied to cases like those juist
enumerated, 'could never be interpreted td mean that there is a class
6f aetors or transactions placed above the cognisance of the" law,
absolved from the' commands of justice. It-is difficult to conceive
how, in society where rights and, duties are relative and mutual,
there can be tolerated those who are privilegfd to do injury lgiks
soluti; and still more difficult to imagine, how such a privilege could
be instituted or tolerated upon the principles. of social good.-- The
privilege spoken of in 'the books sldIld, in our opinion, be taken
with strong aid well-defined qualifications. It properly signifies
this, and nothig.more. That the excepted instances shall so far
change the ordinary rule with respect to slanderous or libelous
tter, as to rmove the regulai and usual presumption. of malice,
and to make it incumbent on the party complaining to show malice,
either by the c6nstruction of. the spoken or written matter, or by
facts and circumstances connected. with that matter, or with the
situation of the.parties, adequate to authorize the conclusion. Thus
in the case of Cockayni v..Hod kisson,.5 Car. & Pa-543, we find
it declared by Parke, Baron, "That*every wilful and unauthorized
publication injurious t- the chracter of another is 'a libel; but
where the -riter isacting on any duty legal or moral, towards the
person to whom he writesi or .is bound by his situatibn to protect
the interests of such person, that which he writes under -such. circumstances is a privileged communication, unless .the writer be
actuated by malice." So in Wright v. Woodgate, 2 Cromptbn,
Meeson & Roscoe, 573, it is said, "a priv'jeged communication
means nothing mdre than that the occasion"of making it-rebuts the
prnafadeinference of malice arising frbm the publication of matter prejudicial to the character of the plaintif, and- thro.*s Vpon him
the onus of proving malice in fact; but not of proving it by extrinsic evidence only; he has still a right t6 require that the alleged libel
itself shall be submitted- to the jury, that they may judge whether
there is' evidencd of malice on the face of it." -In regard to the
second example mentioned, viz., tth-t of a master giving the character of a servant, although this is a privileged- communication, it
is said by Lord Mansfiela in Weitherstone v. Hawkins, 1 T. R.
110, and by Parke, J., in Child v. Affleck, 9 Barn. & Ores. 406,
that if express imalice be shovri, the master will not be excused.
And the result of these authorities, with many others which bear upon
this head is this, that if the. conduct of the defendant entirely con-

288

SUPREME COURT.
White v. Nicholls et al.

sists of an answer to an in iryl,the absence of malice will be presumed, unless .the plaintiff produces evidence of malice; but if a
master unasked, and officiously, gives a bad character, to a servant,
-or if his answer be attended with circumstances from wbich-malice
may be inferred, it will be a question for the jury to determine,
whether he acted bonafide or with malice.
With respect .to words used in a course of judicial proceeding,
it has been ruled that they are protected by the occasion, and cannot, form the foundation of an action of slander without proof of
express malice; for' it is said that it would be matter of public
inconvenience, and would deter persons from preferripgtheir complaints against offenders, if words .spoken "in the course of their
giving or preferring their complaint should be deemed actionable;
per Lord Eldon in Johnson v. Evans, 3 Esp. 32: and in the case
of Hodgof v.Scarlett, 1 Barn. & Ad. 247, it' is said by Hoiroyd,
5.,
speaking of the words of counsel in the argument of a cause,
' If they be fair comments upon, the evidence, and relevdint to the
matter in issue," then unless malice be 'shown, the occasion justifies

them. or If,
however,
it .be proved
they
were
bona
Jide,
express
malicbee
shbwn'that
th'en
they
ma not
be spoken
actionable."
Abbot, J., in the same case remarks, "'I m of opinion 'tatno
action tan'be, maintained unless ihown
that the counsel
availed himself of his situation maliciously to -utter words wholly"
ijustiiflable." "Inrelation to proceedings in courts of justice, it
has. been. strongly questioned whether, unde: all circumstances, a
publicatio of a fuhl report of such proceedings

will constitute a defence in an action or'a libel. In the case of Curry v. Walter,
1 Bos.r& Pul. 525, it was helm that a true report of what passed in
a court of justice was not actionable. The same was said by Lord
Ellenborough in Rex v. Fisher, 2 Camp:"563;i but this same judge,
in"Rex v."Crevyjl M. & S. 273, and Bayley, J., in Rex v. Carlisl-e,
-dissented from this doctrine as laid dowii in Curry v. Walter,
observing that it must"be understood with very reat limitations; and
byTindal, J.,
C.
the
in
case of.elegal v. Iighly, 3 Bing. N. C.
69o it is said "to be an established principle upon which the privilege of publishing the reprt-of any judicial proceeding is admitted
to rest, that
such. and
report
must
be"strictly
confined to
the actual
pronceedings
in coutt,
'must
contaiA
no defamatory
observations

or 'comment from any quarter whatsoever in addition to wha 'forms
strictly and properly the "legsal proceedings;" So .a publication of
the result of. the evidence is riot .pri ileged; the evidence itself
mus.be'published. Neither is a publication of a counsel's speech
unaccompanied by the evidence. Lewis vs Walter 4 Barn..& Aid.
605; EFlintv. Pike, bid. 473."
iuRebcations duly made in the o'dinary qurse of parliamentary
proceedings have- been rul d to be plivilegeda and therefore not
aceion able. Aswhere a false and s juucaloielii"
was contained in

JANUARY

TERM, 1845.

289

White v. Nicholls et aL
a petition which the defendant caused to be printed arid delivered to
the members of the committee appointed by the House of Commons
to hear and examine grievances, it was held not to be- actionable.
Such appears to be the" doctrine ruled in Lare v. King, I Saund.
163; and the reason there assigned for this*doctrine is, that the
libel was'in the order and course of proceedings in the Parliament,
which is a court. The above case does certainly put the example
of a privileged communication more broadly than it has been done
by other authorities, and it seems difficult,-from its very comprehensive language, to avoid the conclusion, that there might be instances
of privilege which could not be reached even by the clearest proof
of express malice. The point, however, appearing to be ruled by
that case, is so much in conflict with the current of authorities going
to maintain the position that express malide cannot be shielded by
any judicial forms, that the weight and number of these authorities
should not, it is thought, be controlled and even destroyed by the
influence of a single and seemingly anomalous decision. The decision of Lake v. King should rather yield to the concurring opinions
of numerous and enlightened minds, resting as they do upon obvious
principles of reason -and justice. The -exposition of the English
law of libel given by Chancellor Kent in the second volume o? his
Commentaries, part, 4th, p. 22, we regard as strictly coincident with
reason as it is with the modem adjudications of the courts. That
law is stated by Chancellor Kent, citing particularly the authority of
Best, J., in the case of Fairman v. Ives, -5 Barn. & Ald. 642, to the
following effect: "That petitions to the king, or to parliament, or
to the secretary of war, for redress of any grievance; are privileged
communications, and not actionable libels, provided the privilege
is not abused. But if it appear that the communication was made
maliciously, and with6ut probable cause, the pretext under which it
was made aggravates the case, and an action lies." It is the undoubted right we know of every citizen to institute criminal prosecutions, or to exhibit criminal, charges before the courts of the
country; and such prosecutions are as much the regular and ap-"
propriate modes of proceedidg as the petition is the appropriate
proceeding before parliament-yet it never was denied, that a .prosecution with malice, and without probable cause, was jiist foimdation, of an 'action, though such prosecution was instituted in the
appropriate court, nd carried on with every formality known to
the law. The parliament, it is said, is a court, and it is difficult to
perceive how malicious and groundless prosecutions before it can
be placed on a ground of greater impunity than they can Qccupy in
another appropriate forum. The case of Lake v. Kin-, therefore,
interpreted by the known principles of the law of libel, would
extend the privilege of the-defendant no farther than to require as
to him proof of actual malice. A different interpretation would
establish, as to such a case, a rule that is peifectly anomalous, and
2-B
VOL. II.-37

290

SUPREME COURT.
Wlhite v. Nicholls et a].

depending upon no reason which is applicable to other cases of pri-Vilege.
By able judges of our own country, the law of libel has been expounded in perfecLconcurrence with the doctrine given by Chancellor Kent. Thus, in the case of the Commonwealth v. Clap, 4 Mass.
Rep. 169,, it is said by Parsons, C. 3., "that a man may apply by
complaint to the legislature to remove an unworthy. officEr; and if.
the complaint be. true, and made with honest intentions of giving
information, and not maliciously, or with intent to defame, the complaint will not be a libel. And when any-man shall consent to be
a candidateFfor a public office conferred by the electi6n of the people, he mist be considered as puttipg his. character iii issue, so far
--as it may'respect his fitness and quaiifications for the office; and
publications of :the truth on this subject, with the honest intention
of informing the pedple, are not a libel; for it would be unreasonable to conclude, that the publication of truths, which it is theintrest of -the people to kno-, should be an offence against their
laws. For the 'same reason, the lublication of falsehood and
calumny against public officers, or candidates for public, offices, is an
.offence dangerous to the -people, and de~eryes punishment, because
the -people may be deceivid, and reject their best citizens, to their
great injury, and, it may be,.to the loss of their liberties. The
publication of a libel maliciously, and- with intent to defame,
whether it'be true or not, is clearly, an offence against law on soind
principles, &c."
'Iii the case of Bodwetl v.Osgood, .3Pick. Rep.. 379, it was ruled,
that a false complaint, made with express malice, or without probable cause, to a body having c6mpetent authority, to redress the
grievance complained of, may be the subject of an action for.a libel,
and the question of malice is-to be determined by the jury. The
court in this last case say, p. 384, "It mayb e admitted, that if the
defendant had proceeded with honest intentions, believing the accusation to betrue, although in fact it Was not, he would be entitled
to protection, and that-the occaioh of the publication would prevent the.legal inference of malice." The court proceed further to
remark, p. 385-: "Itt has beeil argued .that the jury should have
been instructed, that the application t6, tribunal competent to redress 'the supposed grievance was prima'facie'evidefice that' the
.defendant acted fairly, and that. the burden of prpof was 'on the
plaintiff to remove the presumption: Thej udge was not requested
thus to instruct the jury. He did, howe vrrinstruct them that the
burden of proof was on 'the plainfiff to satisfy them that the libel
was malicious, and -that if the plaintiff did not -prove the malice
beyond any -reasonable doubt, that doubt should be in favour-of the
clfendant." '
We have .thus taken a vi,-w of-the "ailthorities which treat of the
doctrines of slander ani libel, and have considered those authorities

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

291

White v. Nicholls'et al.

particularly with reference to the distinction they establish between
ordinary instances of slander, written and unwritten, and those
which have been styled privileged communications; the peculiar
character of which is said to. exempt them from inferences which the
law has created with respect to those cases that do not partake of
that character. Our examination, extended a it may seem to have
been, has been called for by the importance of a subject nost intimately connected with the rights and happiness of individuals, as it
is with the quiet and good order of society. The ifivestigation has
conducted us to the following conclusions, which we propound as
the law applicable thereto. 1. That every publication, either by
writing, printing, or pictures, which charges upon or imputes to
any person that which renders him liable to punishment, or which
is calculated to make him infamous, or odious, or ridiculous, is
prima fade a libel, and implies malice in the author and publisher
towards the person concerning whom such publication is made.*
Proof of malice, therefore, in the casei just- described, can never
be required of the party complaining beyond the proof of the publication itself: justification, excuse, or extenuation, if either can be
shown, must proceed-from the defendant. 2. That the description
of cases recognised as privileged communications, must be understood as exceptibns to this rule, and as being founded upon some
apparently recognised obligation or motive, lcgal, moral, or social,
which may fairly be presumed'to have led to the publication, and
therefore prima fade relieves it from that just implication from.
which.the general rule of the law is deduced. The rule of evidence,
as to such cases, is accordingly so far changed as to impose it on
the plaintiff to remoVe those presumptions flowing from the 'seeming
obligations and situations of the paries, and to require of him to
bring home to the defendant the existence of malice 'as the true
motive of his conduct. Beyond this extent no presumption can be
permitted to operate, much less be made to sanctify the indulgence
of malice, however wicked, however express, under the protection
of legal forms. We conclude then that malice may be .proved,
though alleged to have existed in the -proceedings before a court,
or legislative body,;or any othdt tribunal or authority, ajthough such
court, legislative body, or other tribunal, may have been the appropriate authority for redressing the grievance represented to it; and
.that proof of express malice in any written publication, petition, or
proceeding, addressed to such tribunal, will render that publication,
petiti6n, or proceeding, libellous in its character, and actionable,
and will subject the author and publisher thereof to all the consequences of libel. And we think that in every case of a proceeding
like those just enumerated, falsehood and the absence of probable
cause will amount to proof of malice.
The next and the only remaining question necessary to. be considered in these cases, is that which relates to the rulings of the

292

S-UPREME COURT.
Ex parte Christy.

court below excluding the publication declared upon as a libel from
going to the jury in connection with other evidence to establish the
existence of malice. We forbear any remark upon the intrinsic
character, of the injury complained of, or upon the extent to 'which
it may have been made out. These are matters not properly before
us. But if the publication declared upon was to be regarded as an
instance of privileged publications, malice was an indispensable
characteistic which the plaintiff would have been bound to establish
in relation to it. The jury, and the jury, alone, were to determine
whether this malice did or did not mark the publication. It would
appear difficult a priorito imagine how it would be possible to appreciate a fact whilst that fact was kept entirely concealed and out
of view.- This question, however, need not at the present time be
reasoned by the court; it has, by numerous adjudications, been
placed beyond doubt or controversy. Indeed, in the very many
cases that are applicable to this question, they almost without an
exception concur in the rule, that the question of malice is to be
submitted to the jury upon the face of the libel or publication itself.
We refer for this position, to Wright v. Woodgate, 2 Crompton,
Mees. & Rbs. 573 ; to Fairman v. Ives, 5 Barn. & Ald. 642 ; Rob-inson v. May, 2 Smith, 3; Flint'v. Pike, 4 Barn. & Cre8. 484, per
Littledale, J.; b. 241, Bromage v. Prosser; Blake v. Pilford,
1 Mood. & Rob. 198;' Parmeter -. Coupland, 6 Mees. & Welby,
105; Thomson b. Shackell, 1 Moo. & Mal. 187. 'Other cases
might-be addaced to the same point.
Upon the whole we consider the opinion of -the Circuit Court, in
the several instructions given by it in these cases, to be erroneous.
We therefore adjudge that its. decision .be reversed; that these
causes be remanded to the said court, and that a venire fads de
novo be awarded to try them in conformity with ihe principles herein
laid down.

"Ex-PART., THE CITY BA&i'K OF NEW ORLEANS In THE xATrER OF WaI.
LIA CHRISTY, ASSIGNEE OF DANIL T. WAIiEN, A BANKRupr.
This court has no revising power over the decrees of the District Court sitting
in bankruptcy; nor'is it authorized to issue a writ of prohibition to it in any
case except where the District Court is proceeding as a court of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction.
The District' Court, when sitting in bankruptcy, has jurisdiction over liens and
mortgages existing upon the property of a bankrupt, so as to inquire into
their validity and extent, and grant the same relief which the ptate courts
might or ought to grant.
-The control of the District Court over proceedings in the state courts upon such
liens, is exercised, not over the state couts themselves, but upon the parties,
through an'inijunctioii or.pther appropriate proceeding in equity.

