SUP.REME Ct-U-

.

JOHN WALKER, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. THE PRESIDENT AND DIRECTORS OF THE BANK OF WAsHINGTON, 'DEFENDANT IN ERROR.
Every subsequent sbcurity, given for a loan originally usurious, however remote or often Tenewed, is void.
Where there was an application to a bank for a discount upon a note, to be
secured collatei'ally, and the party aplying drew checks upon the bank
which were paid before the note was actually discounted; and the bank

treated the note, when discounted, as having been so on the day of its date
instead of a subsequent day on whic& its proceeds were carried to the credit
of the party, it was held not to be usury.
The coirt -below was right in refusing an instruction to the jury that, upon
such eidence, they might presume usury as a fact:
In cases of a written contract, the.question of usury is exclusively for the decision of the court

:Tms case was brought up by writ of error'from the Circuit "Court
of the United States for the District of Columbia, in the county. of
Washington.
The facts were these.
On the 30th ot January, 1840, Walker, the plaintiff in error, addressed the following letter to the bank:
S"GFNTLmmr :-I am desirous of obtaining a loan of twenty-flve
thousand dollars, to purchase cattle for fulfilling my contract with
the government, for N York station, say 2000 barrels, and amounting to nearly $27,000.
"In security for the *above-money I'll'assign all my-right and title
to the beef now on hand,'say'barrelled and salted, and all that I
may have (reserving a prior right of $3000, already given for Norfolk station) at the-warehouse on Bradley's wharf, to be subject to
your control.
"I'll deposit an accepted draft of E. Kaie, Esq., navy agent, for
the payment of my contract for N. Y. station.
"Ylrs resp'y, .
JNo. WALKER."
On the 6th of February, 1840; John Walker executed a promissory note in favour of Henry Walker or order, for $10,000, payable
ninety days after date, negotiable and payable at the Bank ofWashington. This note was delivered to the bank under the circumstances stated in the first bill of exceptions. * The note upon which"
the suit was brought was a renewal of it, dated on the 9th of May,
1840, the maturity of the above.
On the 19th of February, 1840, the following draft-was drawn:
"ELIAS KearN, Esq., nay agent, Washington, )D.C.
" S :-Pleasepay to James Adams, Esq., cashier of the Bank of
Washington, or order, the sum of ltn thousand dollars, out of the
delivery of navy beef, to be. made by me at the navy yard, Brook:
lyn, Ne,# York, uider my contract, dated 30th September, -1839.
"And 6blige, sir,. ve'ry respectfully, &c., your ob't. serv't.
JNO. WALiER.
"Washington, D. C., February19,1840."'

JANUARY

TERM, 1845.

63

Walker v. Bank of Washington.

On the face of the aforegoing draft was the fbllowing acceptance,
to wit:
"Accepted, to be paid by me, when the bills shall have been.
yard.
of the navy
received and duly approved by the commandant "F.ELIAS
KANE."
On the 20th of February, 1840, Walker executed to the bank a
bill of sale of all the beef which he had then on hand or should put
up, reciting that he,. Walker, stood largely indebted to the bank on
loans and discounts obtained from it; and was anxious to secure the
payment of notes that had been drawn or given, or might thereafter
be drawn or given, &c., &c.
the following draft was drawn, which
On the 2d of April, 1840,
exceptions:
is referred to in one of the
" ELIAS ICwE, Esq., navy agent, Washington, D. C.
"Sm :-Please pay to James Adams, Esq., or order, the amount
due me for delivery of navy beef, to.be delivered by me, under my
contract, at the navy yard, Brooklyn, New York.
"And oblige, sir, very respectfully, your ob't serv't,
Jro. WAIxxF."
"sipril 2d, 1840.
to wit:
acceptance,
following
the
was
On the face of the above
been
have
shall
bills
the
when
me,
"Accepted, to be paid by
received and duly approved by the commandant of the navy yard,
ELIAs KAN, Navy Agent2'
Brooklyn, New York.
On the 9th of May, 1840, the following note was executed upon
which the suit was brought:
City of Washington, May 9, 1840.
"[$10,000.]
"Thirty days after date I promise to pay to Henry Walker, or
order, ten thousand dollars, for value received. Negotiable and
IWo. WALKER"
payable at the Bank of Washington.
"Credit the drawer."
It was endorsed by Henry Walker, Lewis Walker, and John
Walker.
Not being paid at maturity, suit was brought upon it .in May,
1840, and in 1841 the case came on for trial, when the following
exceptions were taken, on the part of the defejidant.
1st Bill of Exceptions.
"At the trial of the above cause, the plaintiffs having given evidence tending to prove the handwriting of the defendant to the promissory note declared upon, read it in evidence, and then rested.
"Whereupon the defendant then gave evidence, tending to show
that the note dated on the 9th of May, 1840, was given in renewal,
of a previous note dated on the 6th of February, 1840, similarly
signed and endorsed, payable ninety days after date; which said

64

SUPREME COURT.
Walker v. Bank of Washington.

note, of the 6th of February, 1840, was discounted by the plaintiffs,
at the request of the defendant, for his accommodation, as a loan,
on the 18th February, 1840, but not passed to his credit until the
22d February, 1840 ; at which time, last aforesaid, an officer of the
plaintiffs deducted from the prdceeds of said, note the interest on
the same, computed from the date of said note, (the 6th February,
1840,) for the period of ninety-four days, and that said note nowhere
appeared on the books of the plaintiffs until the 18th February, 1840;
that the whole amount credited by plaintiffs to the defendant, as the
consideration of said note dated upon the 6th February, 1840, and
discounted only upon the 18th' February, 1840, and passed to
defendant upon the 22d of same month, was the sum of $9,843 33;
and that the s-UpA of $156 67'was taken by said plaintiffs, as the
interest upon said note, for the time the same was discot nted.
And further gave evidence, tending to show that the said note of
the 6th of February, 1840, was surrendered to the defendant upon
the execution of the said note of the '9th of May, 1840, (the said
last mentioned note being but a renewal of the former,) and that the
said plaintiffs credited the defendant, on account of the said note of
the 9th of May, 1840, only the sum of $9,943 33, and took, as
interest upon said last named note, the sum of $56 67, which was
exacted from said defendant.
" Whereupon the plaintiffs gave evidence, tending to prove that,
on the 20th of January, 1840, the defendant had checked out of
plaintiff' bank $1224 93; that, on the
6th of February, 1840, of
had checked 'out of plaintiffs' bank $2500; and, on the 21st he
February, 1840, he had checked out of said bank to the amount of
nomoneys
plaintiffs,
of the
bookslast
upwards to
of defendant
$7000; allonoftewhich
named
sums and
of money
were
charged
day ofoutFebruary,
on theof22d
or funds appeared
his credit
andatthat,
the time
drawing
said last
sums of tomoney;
mentioned
1840, 'the plaintiffs credited said, defendant with $9,843 33, as the
balance
and
6th February,
proceeds of saidtonote
thetheplaintiffs:
books; of
on the 1840
defendant
due tothe
be dated
then appearing
with the several amounts so as aforesaid drawn
after chargingbyhim
him previous to the 22d of Februaq, 1840, was
out of bank
$997 86; which balance was shbwn to the defendant, and a~sented

to by him.

•"The defendant then gave evidence teniting to show that the said
'note, dated 6th February, 1840, was tbrought on or after the 11th
February, 1840, (it being a discount day,) by the president of the
clerk,
of said plaintiffs, to the
plaintiffs, or~a book-keeper
by
ordiscount
not passed
.one
the witness,) and"given to him as a no nt
the board of directors; and that said note reniained in the hands of'
,4 when it was
9ebruary
such discount clerk, until the 18th
passed by the said board; and on the 22d February, 1840, tae sum
of$9,843 33 was passed to defendants credit as the nett proceeds

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

65

Walker v. Babk of Was-hington.

of said note, and that interest, at the ratae of"six per centum per annum on $10,000, computed from the date of said note, for ninety-four
days, was reserved 'atthe time of entering such credit, by direction of
some officer of the plaintiffs; and that it was the usual practice of
plaintiffs to take interest on discounts only from the time of making
the discount; and that it .does. not appear that defendant was credited on plaintiffs' books with the interest computed from the 6th of
February aforesaid:
"The defendant then asked the cashier of the plaintiffs, who was
sworn as a witness in said cause, whether the amounts drawn out
of bank by the defendant previous to 22d February, 1840, as aforesaid, were not charged on the books of the plaintiffs as -overdrafts,
and were not allowed as the Pexsonal credit of the defendant.
"Whereupon the said cashier answered, that he had no doubt but
that the defendant was allowed to check upon said note of 6th February, 1840, before the same was entered to his credit bn the books
of the bank. And being further asked for the reasons of this opinion.
by the defendant's counsel, he stated that he had no recollection
of said note's being in bank previous to the 18th February, 1840,
or of its existence, cr of any arrangement with reference to it pre*vious to that date; and that the said amounts, so checked out previous to 22d February, 1849, would iot have been paid on defendant's checks, but for the'knowledge, on the part of the said cashier,
that he (defendant) had a large contract with the Navy Department
for the supply of beef, and that for antecedent'liabilities the defendant had given to plaintiffs good collateral security; from which,
however, no surplus resulted after pa ing said liabilities; 'and that
te said advances made to the defendant after the 6th Februar.
1840, and previous to the 22d February, 1840, were made o
security given, or to be given; but he does not kiow of any security"
given during that time, except the defendant's letter of 30th January, 1840, a bill of sale, by defendant to plaintiffs, 'of his barrellec
beef, dated 20th February, 1840; and the two acceptances of the
navy agent, dated 19th February, 1840, and 2d April, 1840, and
the note, dated 6th of February, 1840, of which the said cashier has'
no recollection until the 18th of February, 1840; and that he is satis.'
fled that said advances were not made on the personal credit of de;
fendant. And, from all the above circumstance , he has no doubt that
said note of 6th February, 1840, was in bank from the time of its
date, and: that defendant was allowed' to check on said note from the
day of.its date.
"Whereupon the defendant moved the court to instruct the jury
that the facts mentioned by said cashier are evidence in said cause,
but the inferences'or opinions of said cashier are not evidence; but
the court refused to give such instructions as prayed, but instructed
the jury that the inferences or opinions of said witness are not of
themselves evidence of the facts so inferred,,but that the facts stated
VOL. HI.--9
F2

.66'

SUPREME COURT.
Walker v. Bank of Washington.

by the witness, as the ground of his inference or opinion, are competent to be given in evidence to the jury, together with the inference or 6pinion of the said 'witness; from which facts the jury
are'to judge whether such inferences and opinion are justified by
the facts thus stated.. Whereupon* the defendant excepts to the
said refusal and to the instructions so given, and this, his bill of
exceptions, is signed, sealed, and enrolled, this 24th day of December, 1841. "
I Defendant's 2d Bill of Exceptions.
' Aftr the evidence contained in the aforegoing bill of exceptions
had.been"given, the defendant prayed the court to instruct the jury
that, Kif the jury believe, from the evidence aforesaid, that 'he advances-to' defendant named in the evidence were not made upon
the note of 6th February, 1840, and that the plaintilTs, upon discounting said note, received or reserved more than at the rate of
six per centum, per annum,*then the jury may infer usury, from the
whole evidence aforesaid, in said note'of 6th February, 1840.' And
Iif-the jury believe, from the evidence- aforesaid, that the note of
the 9th of May, 1840, named in the evidence, was given in renewal
of a former note of the defendant, dated on the 6th of February,
1840, payable in ninety days. after date, and which .last note was
dicounted by the plaintiffs, as a loan to the defendant, on the 18th
day of February, 1840, but was not passed to the credit of the defendant until, the 22d February, 1840, and that the said plaintiffs
then charged And' received interest upon the same from the date of
the said -Rote; to wit, from the 6th day of February, 1840, it is the
taking above 'six per centum per-annum for the loan of the mbney
made t6 the defendant upori said note, and is usury; and the defendant is entitled to a verdict in his favour upon said note, notwithstanding the jury may find, from the evidence, that the defendant
had overdrawn his account, as' stated in the evidence, unless they
'Aurther find that the said interest, reserved as aforesaid, was credited
to defendant's account as a credit to take effect from the 6th February, 1840.' But the court refused to grant each of said prayers,
though presented seriatim. Whereupon -the defendant, excepts to
the said refusal; and ibis, his bill of exceptions, is signed, sealed,
and ordered to be-enrolled, this 24th of December, 1841."
Defendant's 3d Bill of Exceptions.
"In addition to the 6-vidence contained in the foregoing bill of exceptions, which is made part hereof, the defendant gave evidence
'tending to show that,, in October, 1839, the plaintiffs suspended specie payments, and have not, since that time, paid their notes in specie or its equivalent until July, 1841; and further gave evidence
tending to prove that the paying teller of the plaintiffs, according to
his impression, would not have paid the checks of the defendant for
the amounts. credited to defendant as aforesaid, on the 22d and 28th

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

67

Walker v. Bank of Washington.

February, 1840, if drawn for the entire amounts in District bank
paper or irfthe plaintiffs'- paper, nless he had received special instructions t6 that effedt from the president, or unless he, the paying
teller, knew that the plai-Aitiff were at that time desirous of increasing
the circulation of their own notes; that he considered he had .a discretionrpn that subject, in absence of insfructions, and has no recollection of having received any instructions in regard to the discounts
to defendant, or any g eneral instructions as to the mode of paying
discounts at that time, though it is his impression that he would not
have paid discounts to so large an amount in District bank paper or
plaintiffs' paper at.that time; nor would they, at the date of said
notes, have received on deposit paper of Virginia banks (they having
also suspended at the same time) in large- amounts, or to the amount
of either of said notes, unless for the accommodation of a regular
customer of the plantiffs, and only in that case upon the understanding that he would receive back the said deposit in the same kind of
funds; and that the plaintiffs would not, by their officers, have received payment of the notes in suit, in case their amounts had been
tendered at the time of maturity, in the paper of Virginia b nks, (all
of which were in a state-of suspension of specie payments,) and that
the market value of Virginia bank notes, in the months of Febiuary,
March, April, and May, 1S40, in the city of Washington, (where the
plaintil did business,) was from I to 1 per cent. less than the notes
of the banks in said District, or the notes of banks in Baltimore, Maryland.
"-And the defendant farther gave evidence to show, that on the 30th
January, 1840, h6 sent to the plnintififs his wiritten ,application for a
loan, in these words, (see ftatement.) That he afterwards executed
the note of the 6th February, 1840, named in the first bill of exceptions, and the note of the 25th February, 1840, now in suit; and
then was passed to his credit, on the 22d February, 1840, on the
books of the plaintiffs, the sum of $9,843 33; as the proceeds of the
discount of said above-named note of the 6th February, 1840; and
on the 28th February, 1840, the farther sum of $5,939 was passed
to his credit on the books of the plaintiffs, as the proceeds of the discount of the'note deed 25th February, 1840. That the defendant
checked out of the plaintiffs' bank the said several amounts so credited to 'him, and he gave evidence to show that some of his checks
for-said amounts were specially made payable in Viroinia notes, arid
were in that form. paid by the plaintiffs. That a check for upwards
of $900, drawn by the defendant on plaintiffs on the.29th February',
1840, for paroT "theproceeds of the note of 25th February, 1840,
passed to his credit as aforesaid, vas also made -ayable in Virginia
money on its face, but the plaintiffs, through their officers, refused to
pay even Virginia money on sail check, but against the wishes and
request of the bearer, one Sinclair, (to whom the said' cheek was
given for value by said defendant,) paid the said check in notes of

68

SUPREME COURT.
Walker i. BangE of Washington.

suspended banks in Delaware, Penisylvania, and Ohio, being notes
more depreciated in value than Virgnia paper n'said District of Columbia; and that said, Sinclair had to "pay, on $260 of said money
paid to him on said check, a discount of,.$10,.to obtain the equivalent of Virginia notes, and the balance of said proceeds of said check
the said Sinclair could not pass at all3 and he required the defendant
to take it from him, which he did. , And further gave evidence tend'ing to prove, that at the time of the dates of said note, and of the
proceeds thereof being credited to defendant as aforesaid, it'was the
practice of the plaintffs, through their officers, not to pay out the
accommodations or discounts made by the plaintiffs, to such large
amounts as either of said notes, in the local bank paper'of said District or in specie, but in paper more depreciated than that of the said
banks in said District. And further gave evidence tending to show,
-that in February, March,,Aprilr and May, 1840, notes of the Virginia bankswere not considered bankable money, and that the plaiiutifls had anotice posted up in their bank, that they would not receive
the-paper of the Virginia banks on deposit or payment of debts; and
that the defendant did receive the pr)ceeds of the loans stated as
aforesaid iii Virginia paper, and some in Penisylvania paper. '
"And le. plaintiffs, in cross-examining the said witness in s'aid
*cause, further proved, that said Walker always drew out personally,
and on his eh&ks, either the Virginia money or the other money, as
he desired ordirected, and generally such as he asked for, and'never
at any time mide any objection to the moneys he was paid in; and
further, that he declared that Virginia money was as ood to him as
any funds in which he could be.paid, and .that he preferred it to any
other. And further proved, that the state of the ba.nk, and its business, and the notes they usualy.paid out, at the date of said defendant's letter,, and at the date of the notes-and the times of their.being
'discounted, were well known. to:the customers of the bank; and that
the defendant was then, and-had been before, ac considerable customer; and thit all-the notes of Virginlabanks, or of other banks, paid
boit to defendant or. other -dealers, were received by the bank in the
way-of its business, at'pai;' and notwithstanding the notice aforesaid,
the bank took 'such notes in small payments, or *hen mixed with
others in large payments, or on deposit by. customers whose business
was such as induced the officers to expqect 'that they-would take the
same sort of.notes in paynient from the bank.
"And the plaintil furtherproved, on the cross examination of said
witness, the cashiek of paci bank, that, at the time of t.6 dates and
disounting the:said notes, it was the custota.of the bank to pay out,
for the proceeds of its _discounts 'its own notes. or the notes of other
.banlis, as desired by the paitieg receiving. such discounts; that when
the parties required it, they paid out their own- notes; and when no
particular paper was equired; they. paid out such as had most accuvnulated, and if was most .bonvenient for the bank to pay out; and

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

69

Walker v. Bank of Washing-ton.

that said Walker, if he had -insisted on it, would, at the timesof paymeat to him of said proceeds of said notes, 'according to their then
practice, have had paid to him-the same iA their own notes.
"1Whereupon the defendant prayed the court to instrctthe jury, as
follows, to wit:"Prayer No. 4:
"That if the jury believe, from the evidence aforesaid, that'at the
time the plaintiffs advanced the amounts of the iotes.in question, after deducting the discounts ou' the same, it was well understood and
arranged between the plaintiffs and defeidant, that the said amount
should be advanced and loaned by plaintiffs to defendant, on condition that defendant should draw such amounts from said bank in Virginia bank notes, or ihL
notes of other state banks in .a state of suspension of specie payments-all which notes were depreciated in the
market, and-commonly passed below the current value of the notes
of the said bank, and notes of 6ther suspended banks in this District,
and all without exception, as well the -notes of the said bank as of
other suspepded banks of this District) were considerably dpreciated,
and commonly passed below the current money of the United States;
and thatidefendant did, in pursuance of the terriis aad "conditions of
said loan, in fact receive the amount of said loans from the plaintiff;
in the bank notes of Virg-inia and of othbr states, which, at the time
the same were so received by defendant, were depreciated considerably below the current value of the bank notes. of this District, and
still more considerably depreciated below the standard and current
.value of the current money of the United States, without any allowance for the depreciation of the same; -and that such depreciation
was well known to plaintiffs at the, time and times of 'such loans;
and that defendant would not have been permitted, and infact was.
not permitted, by the plaintiffs or the officers of said bank, to draw
out the amounts of such loans from the said bank, 'either in the notes
of said bank, or of other solvent though suspended banks of this
-District, or in the current money of the United States; and that the
plaintiffs were to.have received,, and expected to receive, in repayment of said advances and loans, current money of the United States,
out of the said drafts on the navy agent, - and would not have received, in repayment of said loans, the whole amount of either loan
or note, the bak notes of Virginia or of other state banks in a state
of supension; and that such current-money of the United States was
then at a premium very considerably over and in'exchange for the
notes of any of the suspended state banks,'and -of any of the banl's
in this District: then the jury should concludp from'saidfacts, that
the said loans were usurious, and the said notes void.
"€Prayer No. 5:
11 If thejury believe, from the evidence'aforesaid, that there was an
application by the defendant to .the plaintiffs for a loan of a large
sum of- money, and that -the defendant baing in want of- such sum

70

SUPREME COURT.
Walker v. Bank of Washington.

of money, the plaintiffs agreed with him to loan him the amounts
of the notes in suit, provided he would take the said amounts (after
deducting therefrom the rate of six per centumn on the same for the
time the said notes had to run) in notes of Virginia banks in a state
of suspension, or some other state baaks in a state of suspension,
at their nominal- amount; which said suspended bank notes were
-then depreciated in value below the value of the District bank notes,
and much more depreciated below the value of specie; and that
defendant,would previously execute his notes to the plaintiffs for
the nominal amounts so to be advanced to him, superadding thereto
the interest on the amount mentioned in each of said notes for the
time said note had to run; and that the defendant, in pursuance of
said agre~ment, did afterwards receive the said notes of suspended
banks in Virginia and other suspended state banks: And that if
the jury further find that the bank reserved, on the respective nominal amounts of money so loaned to the defendant, interest thereon
at the -rate of six per centum per annum, paying him the balance
of said loans in the depreciated paper aforesaid, and that the plaintiffs, according to the agreement between them and defendant, expecte'd and intended to receive the amount of the notes in suit, with
interest thereon, in specie, or in fuhds of greater value than the
money so paid, as the proceeds of said notes as aforsaid: then the
said facts, if believed by the jury, constitute an usurious agreement,
and all contracts founded thereon are null and void.
"Prayer No. 6:
"If, from the evidence aforesaid, the jury shall find an agreement
between the plaintiffs and the defendant, by which the defendant
borrgwed from the said plaintiffs the amounts of money mentioned
in said notes, deducting interest on said amounts at the rate of six
per centum per year, and that the proceeds of said loans were paid
to. the defendant by the plaintiffs in depreciated bank notes, as a device, and with intent to evade the statute of usury, and that the said
notes were founded on such agreement, and made in pursuance thereof-: -then Ihejury ought to find the said agreement to be usurious.
"Prayer No: 7:
4If the jury believe, from the evidence aforesaid, that the notes in
suit were given in consideration of a loan or loans of money made
by plaintif to defendant, and that by the terms of the agreement on
which said loati or loans were made, the defendant was compelled
to take the same in depreciated paper, (well known to the plainfff to be depreciated,) whereby the defendant not only paid the
legal interest on the nominal- amount of said loans, but sustained
a loss on the depreciated paper with which the plaintiffs paid him:
then it is competent for the jury to infer usury from the whole circumstances in ev'idefnce.
"Prayer No. 8:
"It is competent for the jury, fiom all the circumstances in evidence,

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

.71

Walker v. Bank of Washington.

to infer usury in the agreement or agreements on which the notes in
suit were founded.
" But the court refused each of said prayers, though presented seriatir, and the defendant excepts to such refusal, and claims the same
benefit of exception as if each refusal aforesaid iwas separately excepted to. And this his bill of exceptions is signed, sealed, and ordered to be enrolled, this 24th day of December, 1841."Brent, for the plaintiff in error.
Hellen, for the defendants in error.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit is brought upon a promissory note, given in renewal of
a former note, which had been discounted by the defendants in
error. The defendants in the court below deny that the plaintiffs
have any right of action upon the note sued on, on the ground that
the first note was tainted with usury.
Such is'the law in such a case. The mere chance of securities
for the same usurious loan to the same party who received the usury,
or to a persor having notice of the usury, does not purge the original
illegal consideration, so as to give a right of action o the new eunty. Every subsequent security given for a loan originally usurious, however remote or often renewed, is void. Tuthil v. Davis,
20
J. R.
285;
Reed1 v.
Smith,
9 Cow..647,
and v.theCatheral,
cases of5 Saerwein
"v.
Brunner,
Hair.
& Gill,
477'; Thqomas
Gill
& Johns. 23, decided in the courts of appeal in Maryland, under the
statute
of which
it is before
said, the
sued upon
is void.
But such
is aNt state,
the case
us. note
Thenow
defendant,
Walker,
had
entered into a contract with the United States to supply the navy
with beeiy and to enable himself to do it, he applied to the bank, by
letter
dated the 30th January, for a loan of $"25,000, and offered as
a security
a draft upon E. Kane, the navy agent, and also to assign
to the bank the beef which he might put up. The bnek accepted
his offer, but before Walker gave the draft upon Mr. Kane, or made
the assignment, he drew his note on the 6th day of February, seven
days after he had written his letter asking for a lon, for $10,000, at
.

ninety days, and handed it into bank;- which note, at maturity,
was renewed by the note of the 9th May, now in suit.. This note,
howevef was not discounted until the 18th February, and when then
done, the proceeds were not passed to his credit until the 22d.
The cause of the delay, in both particulars, the proof in the case
shows, was, that Walker did not, until the 19th of February, draw
his draftluon the navy agent, as he had proposed to do, or make an
"assi imfit
f he beef to the bank, until the 20th. He may or may
not'lave pased the navy agent's acceptance to the ,mk6n the day
it isdated,.6 have delivered his deed for the beef the day after; but
between those days and.the 22d inclusive, he did soi and the bank's
security bein'g'then in its possession as he had offered it, the proceeds

SUPREME C'OURT.
Walker v. Bank of Washington.

of his $10,000 note was, on the last mentioned day, passed to his
credit. But, in the mean time, Walker had dravn out of the bank,
upon -his checks, more , han seven thousand dollars, with which he
was debited when the proceeds of his note were carried to his credit;
which sum'and the interest upon it, computed for ninety-four days,
from the date of the note, left a balance to his credit of $997 86.
The computation of the interest from the 6th February; instead of
-from the day when the proceeds were carried to his credit, is the
usury complained of. The letter of the defendant of the 30th January, asking for the loan of $25,000; the acceptances, of his drafts
upon the navy agent by that officer, and the defendant's assignment
to the bank of certain portions of the beef which he had on hand,
and-which he might put up undet his contract with the Uiiited States,
and which -assignment *was not executed, until the 20th February,
-were in evidence before the court below. The assignment recites
the defendant's contract with the United States, so far ,as it was
necessary to introduce the contract which he was about to make in
'it with the bank; -Aen his indebtment t&the bank for loans and discounts, his intention to secure the payment of the money due by
him, and all drafts, note or notes that have been given for the same,
or might be afterwards given by way of substitution or renewal of
such drafts or notes, or any of them, &c., &c., and then states that
the money which had already been advanced or loaned, or which
might afterwards be advanced-or loaned by tle bank to the defendant, being for the purpose of enabling him to fulfil his contract with
the United States. Now, the proof is positive, on both sides, that
the note sued on was given in renewal of the note of the 6th February, which had first been given under his proposal for a loan, and
that it was intended to be the note, the payment of which was to be
secured by the assignment. Such beingthe evidence, the court correctly refused every instruction which -was asked to refer the'question
of .usury to the jury as a fact. It was a case of a written contract.
in which"the court had the exclusive power of deciding whether it
was usurious or not. Levy v. Gadsby, 3 Cranch, 180. But, if it
were'ns' so, we think the instructions, as they were asked, could
not have been given by the court to the jury. Each of them called
upon the court to give an opinion upon the sufficiency of the evidence, and in a1 of them, except the eighth, there was a separation
of the facts from the entire*evidence, so as to bring them under the
cases of Scott v. Lloyd, 9 Peferi, 418; Greenleaf v. Booth, 9 Peters, 292; and that of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Co. v. Knapp,
9 Peters, 541. -Nor do ve think that there was any error in the
instruction givn by the court to the jury under the defendant's first
prayer. The court sufficiently distinguish between the facts of the
cashier's evidence and his belief, and tell the jury that they are to
determine by the facts whether the cashier's inferences were justified.
The judgment of the court is affirmed.

