JANUARY TERM, 1345.

553

Stimpson v. West Chester Railroad Co.

We are, therefore, of opinion, that the law of 1840, herein before
mentioned, 'did not impair the obligation of'a contract, and that the

judgment of the Court of Appeals of Maryland must be affirmed.

Jx.&is STINPSON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. WEST CHESTER RAoItoAD
CostP-v.
The 38th. rule of court forbids the insertion of the whole of the charge of the
court to the jury in a general bill of exceptions, but requires that the part
excepted to shall be specifically set out.
This court has not the power to correct any errors or omissions which may
have been made in the- Circuit Court in framing the exception; nor can it
regard any part of the charge as the subject-matter of revision; unless the
judges, or one of them, certify under his seal, that it was excepted to at the
trial.
If the omission of a part of the charge, which was in fact embraced in the
.exception, is a mere clerical error, the party will' be entitled to a certiorari,
upon producing'a copy of the.exception, properly certified.
But in no case can the exception certified under the seals of the judges of the
Circuit Court be altered or amended.

A suGGESTION was made, in this case, of diminution in the record,

and a motion for a certiorarito bring up the charge which the court
delivered to the jury on the trial of the cause in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Chief Justice TAINEY delivered the following opinion of the
court.
* The plaintiff in error in this case suggests that there is diminution
in the record, in omitting the charge to the jury which was delivered
at the trial by the Circuit Court, and moves for a certiorari,that it
may be set out at length, and appended to the record.
So much of the -charge of the court as was evrcepted to-.at the
trial, is .inserted in the record as it now stands; and by the 38th
rule of this court, adopted at January Term, 1832, it was ordered,
that thereafter "the judges of the Circuit and District Courts do
nQt allow any bill of exceptions, which shall contain the charge of
the court at large to the jury, in trials at common law, upon any
general exeeptian to the whole of such charge. But that the party
excepting-be required'to state distinctly the several matters in law,
in such charge, -to which he excepts; and that such matters of law,
and those only, be inserted in the bill of exceptions, and allowed
by the court."
The riecord now before us contains as much of the charge.as is
authorized, by this rule, .tobe inserted in the exception, and the
motion for a certiorarimust therefore be overruled.
3A
VOL. 1lI.-70

554

SUPREME COURT.
Stimpson v, West Chester Railroad Go.

J. .R. Ingersoll afterwards filed, and read in open court, the following suggestion in writing, to wit:
I In the printed record, a mere omission is made Qf a portlon
of
the- manuscript charge. 1. After the reference to Evans v. Jordan,
9 Cranch, 201, (printed record, p..30, near the bottom of the
-page,) there are four and a half pages of manuscript, (pages 26,
27, 28, 29, 30.) 2. On page .27 of the manuscript are these
words: "It thus appears that the act of 1839 goes only one step
beyond those of 1832 and 1836, and is a dead.letter, if it protects the person who has purchased, constructed, or used the
machine invented," &c.
A memorandum. endorsed by Judge Baldwin, ,Stimpson v. West
Chester Railroad Company. Exceptions to the charge." In this
memorandum are found-the following words: "7 sect. act of 1839
goes only one step beyond those of 1832 and, 1836, and is dead
fetter so far as protection against such subsequent use."
3. On page 30 of the manuscript charge are these words: " In
the case before us, it clearly appears that the defendants constructed
their railroad with the plaintiff's curves, in 1834, one. year or more
'before the plaintiff's application for his renewed patent, consequently they may continue its use without liability t9 the plaintiff.",
Tfie same. memorandumi endorsed by Judge Baldwin, contains
these words: "As defendants made railroad in 1834, they may
continue use."
I Thus it will be perceived, the very points objected to in writing,
and the writing received and admitted to be such by Judge Baldwin, are omitted in copying the charge at the clerk's office at Philadelphia. The language of'. the charge;-as written out, is somewhat
more extended than that of a merporandum hastily made while
it was delivered, but it is, throughout, substantially, and in part,
literally the same. The "important question" in the case w6L, the defendants' right
to use, after the date of the second patent, the specific machine
constructed and used by them before the date of-that .patent. This
question, according to the printed record, is not decided at all, nor
lef-to the jury, nor any result arrived at in, regard to it.
The whole charge is not wanted, but only those parts distinctly
excepied to at the moment, and inadvertently omitted by a copyist.
It is obvious, besides, that the charge, or the fragment of a
charge' printed, is not only elliptical, but insensible. The judge
says, (p. 30,) "Another important question," &c., yet no question
appears. The manuscript must be consulted in order to give
meaning or object to the phrase.
The counsel for the defendant in error would probably learn with
some surprise, that this application has been refused. In the paper
book which that counsel has caused to be printed, page 3, third
paragraph, the 7th section of the act of 1839 is quoted; and sup-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.
Stimpson v. West Chester Railroad Co.

ported by points-and references. All this is without object or origin
-inthe printed record. The source- of it is dried up by the omission
of the copyist. So page 4 of that paper book, No. 6, " under tle
These remarks are applicable only to the
act of 1839, &c."
omitted parts of the charge.
The counsel, for plaintiff in error, who now moves for a certiorari,
*as not present at the trial, but his colleague, who tried the cause,
informs him that the judge undertook to put the whole charge on
the record, and the concluding words along with it. Thus,
1. The whole charcre, under the promise of-the judge, ought to
"
be a part of the record.
2. The omitted parts inthe printed record are the essence aild
substance of the case% admitted by the judge to be such, and
specifically excepted to at the moment.
? 3. Th e-whole. difficulty- arises from a_,mere inadvertence of a
clerk.
4. Extreme injustice will be done, if the clerical omission be not
corrected.
- 5. Were the judge living, verbal explanations might be given by
him, but not more-precise perhaps than the written endorsement or
the memorandum of counsel.
Finally, the printed record shows that the judge put the case on
two points:First, was the second patent void ?
The judge decided that it is.
Secondly, if the second patent were not void, then, can the plaintiff recover, when the specific machine used by the difendants wag
first
made and used by them before the second patent was taken
out?
This second point, according. to the printed record, the judge
states, but does not decide, or put in such shape as to let the jury.
decide. His conclusion is omitted, while his premises are stated.
And a correction of this is the subject of the certiorari. Mr. Ingersoll then moved the court for a writ of certiorarito be directed to the
judges of the Circuit Court of the United States for the eastern district of Pennsylvania, commanding them to certify forthwith whatever errors and bmissions shall be found.
Upon which motion, Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the
opinion of the court.
A motion was made at a former day of the present term for a
certiorari to bring up the charge delivered by the Circuit Court at
the trial, to be set out at length, and appended to the record. This
motion was overruled for the reason then stated by the court.
The motion has since been revived, and a copy of what purports
to have been the charge of the court at length has been produced, in
order to show that a material point in it has not been inserted in the

556

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Freeman.

exception, as brought up'in the record; and some memorandums in
the handwriting of the late presiding judge of the Circuit Court have
also been laid before this court for the purpose of showing that an
exception was reserved to the part of the charge above referred to.
In relation to the excption stated in the record, the court think
it proper to say, that it contains a gr~at deal of argument which is
altogether out of place in: an-exception, and cbntrary to the directions of this court as given in the 38th rule: And it w6uld appear,.
from the copy of the charge. produced in- support of this motion,
that while much of the argument of the Circuit Court has been improperly inserted, the matter of law which the argument was intended to prove, and upon which the jury were instructed, is omitted. But this court has, not the power to correct any errors or
omissions that may have been made in the Circuit Court in framing
the exception;' nor can we regard any part of the charge as the
subject-matter of revision here, unless the judges, or one of.them,
certify,-under his seal, that'it was excepted to at-'the trial. If the
portion'of the charge, in relation to which the -diminution is suggested, was in fact enblaced in the exception, and the omission of
.it is a clerical error, hen, upon producing here-a copy of the exception properly certifi d, the Iilaintiff in error-will be-entitled to a certioran",in order to. suppl- the defedt.. But we can. in no respect
alter or amend the exception.certified under the seals of the judges
of the Circuit Court, either br referring t&he charge at length, or
the notes of the presiding judge,; and as the case is now presented,
the motion must be refused.

THs UNTvED STATES, PLAINTIFFS, V. WILLIAM H. FIEENAM.

Statutes in pari materia should be taken into consideration in construing a 11w.
If a thing contained in a subsequent statute be withiugthe reason of a former
statute, it.shall be taken to be within the meanifig of that statute.
And if -itcan be gathererfinum a subsequent statute in pan materia whai meahwill amount
ing the legislature attached to the words of a former statute, ithis
to a legislative declaration of its meaning, And will govern the construction
of the first statute.
The meriing of the legislature may be extended-beyond the precise words uged
in the law, from the reason or motive upon which the legislature proceeded,
from'the end in view, or the purpose which was-designed; the limitation of
the rule being, that to extend the meaning to any .case, not included within
the words, the case must be shown to come within the same reason upon
which the law-maker proceeded, and not a like reason.
A brevet field-officer of the marine corps is not entitled by law to brevet pay
and rations, by reason of his commanding a separate post or station; if the
force under.his command would not entitle a brevet field-officer of infantry,
of a similar grade to brevet pay and rations.

