JANUARY TERM, 1845.

WILLIAM SEARIG.HT, COMMtISSiONrR AND SUPERINTENDENT OF THE CUMsDERLAND ROAD, WITHIN THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA, PLAINTIYF
IN ERROR, V. WILLIAm B. SToxEs AND, Lucius W.
StocTON, WHO
HAVE .SURVIVED RICHARD C. STOCKTON, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.

'Under the acts of Congress ceding toPennsylvadia that part of the Cumberland
road which is within that state, and the acts of Pennsylvania accepting the
surrender, a carriage, whenever it is carrying the mail, must be held to be
laden With the property-of the United States, within the true meaning of the
compact, and consequently exempted from the payment of tolls.
But this exemption does not apply to any other property conveyed in the same
vehicle, nor to any person Kavelling In'it, unle:.s he is in the service of the
United States and passing along in pursuance of orders from the proper authority.
Nor can the United States claim an exemption for more carriages than are necessary for the gafe, speedy, and convenient conveyance of the mail.

- Tis case was bro.u ht up by writ of error from the Circuit-Court
of the United States for the western district of Pennsylvania, and involved the fight of. the plaintiff in error, acting under the authority
of the state of Pennsylvania,.to collect tolls from the stage-coaches
which carried the mail of the United States.
The circumstances under which the question arose were these:
Dn the 30th of April, 1802, and 3d of March, 1803, acts of Congress were passed, the effect of both of which taken together was,
that three "per cent. of the amount received for the sales of public
land in Ohio, should be expended'in making roads withih the said
state, and two. per cent. of said fund be also expended in making
puhlic:.roads leading .from the navigable waters emptying into the
Atlantic to the Ohio river, upon certain conditions, which were accepted by Ohio.
On the '29th of March, 1806, Congress passed an act to provide
for layipg out the road by commissidners, and directed the President
to pursue such measures as in his opinion should be proper to obtain

the consent for making the Toad, of the state or states through which
the same may have been laid out; the expense of the road to be
char-ged to the two per cent. fund.
Pennsylvania, Virginia, and Maryland all gave their assent. Pennsylvania passed her law on the 9th of April, 1807, and gave power
to those who were to make the road to enter upon landt, dig, cut,
and carry away materials, &c. The road was laid out from Cumberland, in Maryland, to WhVIeeling, on the Ohio river, and made;
but a great difficulty having arisen, on tile part of the United States,
in keeping it in repair, the road fell .into decay, and a new system. of
legislation was adopted to attain this object.
On the 4th of February, 1831, the state of Ohio passed a law for
the preservation and repair of the United States road. It provided,
that whenever the consent of Congress should be obtained, the governor of the state should take the road under his care, erect gates

162

SUPREME COURT..
Searight v. Stokes et al.

-

and toll-houges appoint a superintendent, collectors, of tolls, &'c.,
with this proviso amongst others i ".Provided, also, That no toll
shall be received or collected for the "passage of any stage or coach
conveying the United States mail, or horses 'bearing the same, or.any
vagon or carriage laden with the property 6f the United States, .or
any cavalry or other troops,: arms, or -military stores beloffging to the
same, .or to any of the states c6mprising this union, or any person
or-persons on duty in the military service of the United States or of
the militia of any of the states."
The law contained the nece'sary provisions for the preservation of
good order upon the road, and also a stipulation that the to'ls should
be neither below nor above a sum necessary to defray the expenses
incident to the preservation and repair of the same.
On the 2d of March, 1831, C6ngress assented to this act,
.Oh the 4th of April, 1831, Pennsy.1ania passed an act "for the
preservation and repair of the Cumberland road." It provided -for
the appointment of commissioners, who were directed to build tollhbuses and erect toll-gates, to collect tolls, with the following exceplions: "And provided, also, That nothing in thig act shall be construed.
so as to authoriie any tolls to be received or collected -from any person or persons passing or repassing from one part of his farm to
another, or to or. from a milli or to or from any place of public'-worship, funeral,.militia training, elections, or from any student or child
going to or from any school or seminary of learinc;or from persons
and witnesses going to and returning from coutts: and providedi
further, that no tof shall be received or collected for the passage of
any wagon or carriage lden with the, property of the United States,
or any cannon or military stores belongihg to the-United States or to
any of the states composing this union."
The 4th section directed the amount of tolls, after deducting expenses,*to be applied.to the repairs and preservation of'the road, and
gave the commis-iimesr power -to increase or diminish the rates of
tolls, provided that they should at no time be increased beyopd the
rates of toll established by ail act incorporating a company to make.
a road from Harrisburg to Pittsburg, passed in 1806. The toll fixed
by this act upon a coach and four horses was twenty cents for every
five miles.
Th' 10th section was as follows: " And be it enacted, &c., That
this act shall not have any force or effect until the Congress of the
United States shall. assent to the same, and until so muich of the said
road as passes through the state. of Pennsylvania be first put in a
good state of repair, and an appropriation made by'Congress for
erecting toll-houses and toll-gates thereon; to be expended under
the authority of the commissioners*appointed by this act: Provided,
the legislature of this'state may, at any future session thereof, change,
alter, or amend this act, provided that the same'shall not be so atered or amended as to reduce or increase the rates of toll hereby

JANUA&RY TERM; 1845.

153

Searight v. Stokes et aL

established below or above a sum necessary to defray the expenses
incident to the preservation and repair of said road, for the payment
of the fees or. salaries of the commissiopiers,.the. collectors of tolls,
and other agents. And provided, further, that no change, alteration,
or amendment shall* ever be adopted, that will in any wise defeat or.
affect the true intent and meaning of this act."
On the 23d of January, 1832, Maryland passed an act, which. ift
its essential provisions, was. the ame with that of Pennsylvania;
and on the 7th of February, 1832, Virginia passed a similar law.
On the 3d of July, 1832, Congress declared its assent to the above
mentioned laws of Pennsylvania and Maryland in these words, .1to
which acts the assent of the United States is hereby givenj to remain
in forte during the pleasure of Congress," and appropriated $166;000
to carry'into effect the provisions of said acts; and on the 2d of
March, 1833, assented to the act-of Virginia, with a similai limitation.
On, the 24th of June, 1834, Congress passed an act-for the continuation and repair of the Cumberland road, appropriating $300,000
to that object.
The 4th.section was as fohows: "1And-be it further enacted, That as
soon as the sum by this act appropriated, or so much thereof as is
necessary, shall be expended in,
the repair of said road, agreeably to
the provisions of this.act, the same shall be surrendered to the statep
respectively. through which said road passes; and the United States
shall not thereafter be subject to any expense for repairing said
road."
On the 1st of April, 1835, Pennsylvania passed a supplement to
the act above mentioned, accepting the surrender by the United
States, &c., &c.
On the 13th of June, 1836, Pennsylvania passed another act crelating to the tolls on thatpart of the Cumberland road which passes
through Pennsylvania, and for other purposes," the 1st section of
which was as follows: "1That. all wagons, carriages, or other modes
of conveyance, passing upon that part of the Cuberland road which
passes through Pennsylvania, carrying goods, cannon, or military
stores. belonging to the United States, or to any individual state .6f
the union, which are excepted from the payment of toll by the 2d
section of an act passed the fourth ofApril, anno Domini eighteen hundred and thirty-one, shall extend only so far as to relieve such wagons,
carriages, and other modes of cohveyance from the payment -of -toll
to the proportional amount of such goods so carried belonging to the
United States or to any of the individual states of the union; and
that in all cases of wagons, carriages, stages, or other modes of
conveyance, carrying the United States' mail, with passengers or
goods, such wagon, stage, or other mode of conveyance, shall pay
half toll upon such modes of conveyance."
On the 5th of April, 1843, another act was passed by PennsylVOL. Hs-20

14

SUPREME COURT.
Searight v. Stokes et al.

vania, the 39th section of which was as follows: "That from and
after the passage of this act, the -commissioner 6f the Cumberland
road shall have power to increase the rate of tolls on all stage'coaches drawn by four or mote horses, fo any sum not exceeding
one dollar, at each gate upon said road within the state of Pennsylvania; "6nd the said commissi6ner shall have the same power to
enforce the paymeht and collection of tolls authorized by the act of
thirteenth of June, eighteen hundred and thirty-six, relating to olls
on that-part- of the Cumberland road passing through Pennsylvaia,
by stopping such coach or coaches, as is provided by the act of
*fourth of April, eighteen hundred andthirty-one, for the preservation
and repair of the Cumberland road; and to exercise all the 'means
and remedies authorized by said acts for the collection oftolls and
prevention of fraud on said road; reserving also to the said cornmissipner the right to sue or maintain, any action therefor, as he
might or could do at common law, in additibn to the remedies
herein provided."
A suit was brought on the 29th November, 1842, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the western district of Pennsylvania,
by agreement of parties, and a statement of facts, 'signed by .the
respective counsel, in, the nature of a special verdict, .as follows:
"It is agreed that this case be submitted to the court on the fol.lowing statements of 'facts, as if found by a jury" The -plaintiffis the commissioner and superintehdent of so much
of the Cumberland or National road 'as lies within. the -stats of
Pennsylvania, duly appointed under and by virtue of the laws'ef
that state in such case provided, and is a citizen of said state. The.defendanis and Richard C. Stockton, whom theylhave survived, are
and were citizens of Maryland. The defendants, together with the
said Richard, whdm they have survived, were joint,paKtners in certain contracts for carrying the mail of the Unite'd.'States hereunto
unnexed. The route described in saia -contracts extended over so
much of.the road called' the Cumberland or National road a lies
'within the commonkwealth of Pennsylvania: Said. contracts -were
duly. executed between the postmaster-general 'of the-United Stales
thereto lawflly authorized by the laws of the United States, and
said contractors in conformity with law. The -mail of the United
States was transported by said contractors in accordance.with the
provisions of said contracts, during the time therein, stipulated, in
carriages conltructed in conformity with the directions and requirements of the postmaster-general ; said carriages were constructed
and accommodated as well for the transportation of the mail, as for
carrying passengers and their bangge, but the number of said passengers was limited sO as not to interfere with or impede the transportation' of the mail, and in no case 'as. any passenger carried
when the transportation of the mail would 'be thereby retarded or
interifered with. The said National road within The territorial limits

JANUARY- TERM,. 184.

155

Searight v. Stokes et al.

of Pennsylvania was, so far and to such extent as the Constitution
and laws of the'United States, and the'state of Pennsylvania, vested
the sanie, the property of the United States, and had been constructed under the authority of said laws by the United States.*
-The Constitution and laws of the-United States, and of the commaonwealth of Pennsylvania, beaing upon this subject, and the executive
proceedings of the same respectively, are to be deemed and considered part of this agreed case. No tolls were paid by said contractors for or upon any vehicle or carriages employed or used by
them -for the transportation- of said mail during the period of.the
existence of said contrac(s, notwithstanding said carriages ordinarily
as aforesaid carried passengers, and said contractors received the
passage money therefor for their own .use.
."Under the laws of the United States and of the state of Pern"sylvania, so much of. said Cumberland or Nation 4 l- road as lies
within the limits of the state of Pennsylvania, was ceded by the
United States, and accepted by Pennsylvania, upon the ternmi and
conditions expressed and contained in said statutes. Since the year
1835, the-state, of Pennsylvania has held said road undei and by
virtue of said laws, and has performed the terms and conditions
therein prescibed in every- respect, unless the imposition and claim"
of tbls as herein stated is so far an infi-action of the compact created
by said laws. Payment of tolls imposed by and under the laws of"
Pennsylvania, has been demanded of said contractors by the plaintiff
.and his predecssors in office, for and on account -of their carriages
so as aforesaid employed ih the transportatioh of the mail with passengers so- carried as, aforesaid; such payment of"tolls has been
resisted and refused by said contract6rs-on the ground'that the car-'
riages employed in the transportation of the mail- of the United
States, on said road, were not under the said compact and laws
legally liable to the payment of said tolls..
"The said carriages employed in the transportation- of the mail
were four-wheel carriages dawn by four horses each, and they ra,
over said route and through the- six gafes which-are upon said road
within the said state of Pennsylvania, -twice daily, being.their eastern
and western routes. The full. rates of toll established by law upon.
said roeid in Pennsylvania; for a daily line of four-liorse post -coaches
or stages, were, at daeh of the said six gates, including the eisterii
and Western routes, daily
From 1 January, 1836, to 1 April, 18"37, - - . 40 cents.
April, -1837, to
'
:1839, - • - "60 oents.
After 1839, .to present time,.
100 cents.
If, upon e foregoing state of facts, the court shall be of opinion

'that the defendants are liable fo pay tolls for their carriages, so: employed in'the transportation: of the mail of the United States, judgmnent to be entered for the plaintiff for the sum of $6000. If -it.,
shall be 6f opinion that the said carriages-so employed are not sub-

156

SUPREME COURT.
Seatight v.'Stokes et al.

ject to the paymeft of said tolls, then judgment to be entered 'for
the defendants.
R P. FL.ENND=N,
R.
" for'Plaint~s.
RicH'D. S. Cox, for )eqydants."1
Upon-this statement 6f facts the court below directed, judgment
to be entered in favour of the defendant, and to review this decision
of the court the writ of error Oas brought.
- Veech and Walker, for the plaintiffs in.error.
Coxe and .V'elson, attorney-general, for the defendants in error.
(This case' was argued at the preceding term .of the court by
Flennikin and Walker, for the .plaintiffs iii error, and Coxe, for defendants, but the court ordered a re-argument at the present term.)
Veech, for plaintiffs in error;
After reciting the history of the road, said, that if the r6ad was
the property of the United States, it might be considered a hardship
that th6 mail could not pass free. But Penn~ylvania had only
grantdd the right of way. She was the last of the three states who
argued that it should be made, and' then stipulated that it should
pass certain points.
The United States had no jurisdiction over the soil, and no more
power over it than state officers had when they were making state
roads. No one thought of making any provision for keeping the
road in repair. As soon as ten miles were made, a difficulty arose
upon this point. • 1 Collection of Surtreys, &c., published in 1839,
by order -of the Senate, Report of Shriver, communicated to Congress by Mr. Gallatin.
Mr. Gallatin said, that "tolls were suggested, but that could-only
be done by authority of the state." Sam!e book, 133,'639.
Mr. Dallas, when secretary of the Treasury, made a report on the
subject, in which he sid that provision ought to be made for keeping the road in repair, but that Congress, of itself, had no power in
the premises. Doc. No.- 69, page 653. The road continued to'decay until. 1822, when a bill was passed
to erect gates and collect tolls, which Was vetoed by the President
of the United States. Congress then appropriated a sniall sum for
repairs. Mr. Buchanan moved an amendment, providing for a cession of the road to the states through which it passed, on condition
"that they would collect tolls and keep it in repair. There was-no
reservation.infavour of- the mail.
In 1823 the same amendment was offered, without any reservation.
Between 1828 and 1832, the road became so much out of repair
that another movement was made. (The counsel here referred to
the several acts which were passed by state legislatures and by
Congress.)

YANUARY

TERM, 1845.

157

Searight v. Stokes et al.

In the mean time, Pennsylvania had 'constructed roads leading
from Philadelphia to Pittsburg, and the question was, whether she
should turn the travel off her own roads to one which passed through
only a snall portion of the state. The Penhsylvania legislature struck
out a part of the Olio bill which they'had before them: When the
Ohio .bill was before Congress, Mr. Burnet, a senator.from that state,
said, that care was taken that the mail of the United States should
pass free. 7 Reg. Deb. 287.
There are other differences between thd laws of Penfisylvania afid
Ohio. The'Virginia law is.
almost a colpy of that of Ohio, although,
in the sprit of old-fashioned Virginia hospitality, one who is .visiting
his neighbour is not allowed to be charged with any tol]. ,Marylan
copies the law of Pennsylvania. Maryland and Pekinsylvania said,
that the United States should first put the road in'repair and erect
toll-houses, whilst Virginia iniposed no such restriction. ' The dost
to Coigress was 'about $750,000 in repairing the rqad and erecting
gates. Before this time, the mail was carried in one line of doaches.
-The contract with the defendants for carrying it in 1835 was to pay
them $9708. In 1837, they were paid $27,600.
Under the present law,.half toll is charged upon the coaches wieh
carry the mail aid passengers; 'if 'there is. nothing but the mail'they
go free. Suppose We ad nt, that the mail is the property of the
United States, can- a coach be said to be ." laden with the property
of the United States.' when it has -nine passengers in it and only a
small mail bag? Or, could this ,be affirmed 6f ,wagon laden with
flour and bne musket
,Such a construction forces .words from their
Itrue import.. But the 'nail c6nnot be properly called the property of
the UnitedStates. All carriers have a special property.in their load
to 'rt 6ct it from depredations. But'what thelaw means is, that the
United Stateg must -hive an,unqualified right of 'property in the subject matter. "jtwill be ncessary foi the othe side to make out twopropositions:
1. That the mail is the property of.the United'States. "
2. That. a' vehicle can .be said to be laden with the mail when-it
has a siiige bag in it.
Coxe, for defendants in error.
n . Coxe traced the. history of the road as it is found in the'laws'
an in 1 State Papers, tit. Miscellaneous, 432, 474,.714, '718. 940,
(M r

947.)The error of the argument-on the other-side is in suppbsing, that
Ohio-was the only party interested in the originail construction of the
road. The United States was a large landed proprietor, and wished
to open an easy. access to th lands in the west, in order that sales
-might be increased. Pennsylvania, it is true, did fot cede the'land
over which 'the xoad passed, but 'she yvas deeply interested in the
general result. The United States .did not claim sovereign power
0

158

SUPREME COURT.
Searigh't v. Stokes et al.

over it. Still they have some interest in it, and we do not claim
more than all incorporated companies have over the roads which they
make. The Pennsylvania act is different from that of Ohio. But
the reason is, thaf the road was completed in the former state and
not in the latter. (Mr. Coxe heie reviewed,the tarticular provision
of the sever-a acts.) Is -there any ground to suppose, that Congress
intended to make a different contract with diffeient states? The
conditions are essentially the same: one exempts the property of the
United- States, 'and the other, the mail. The act df Pennsylvania
speaks of "vehicles carrying the United States mail," thus recognising the mail as belonging to the government.. The mail is one of
the most valuable branches of the governmen, connecting itself
closely with the business of the people, and i proportion of the mail
mattir is absolutely the property of the government, being communications from oni public officer to another. The mail is fenced round
with protection, by law, from robbery and depredation, and the bags
and.locks are public property. The act of Congress of 1831, throughbut, recognises the mail as being the property of the government.
Unless passengers :were to go in the coaches, there would have to be
a guard; but they are the best guard. The contracts require, that
stages shall be suitable for passengers. The right of altering the
contract is always reseryed t6 the government, and although there
may be three lines now instead of one formerly, yet the letter of the
postmaster-general to the governor of Pennsylvania shows, that the
mail could not now be carried in one coach. If there ean be a toll
imposed upon carriages when there are-passengers, why not also
when there are no passengers? -and such an amount may be taxed
*as will prevent the running of the mail. A question of power cannot
be decided by the greater or lesser exercise of it: 4 Wheait 327,
351,.387, 417, 426, 429.
N1elson, attorney-general, on the same side..
The question lies in a narrow compass. . It is, whether there'is a
contract between the United Staths on the one hand and Pennsylvania
on the other; and if so, what is its nature? The act of 4th April,
1831, is the foundation of the compact. It proposed to provide for
the repair of the road. Commissioners were appointed on condition,
that the United States would repair the road and, erect gates. The.
act was to have no force until Congress assented to it5 and appropriated money for toll-houges and gates. Here is a proposal, 'ai
offer for a c6ntract. The 10th section says, that it shall not go into
operation until. an appropriation is made, but there is nothing said
about ceding jurisdiction. Congress, in 1832, assented, on condition that Pennsylvania would execute her part of the contract and
keep the road in repair. The power of Congress over internal improvements is not dra'Wn into the case at all..' The United States
have a right to purchase the privilege of transporting the mail over

JANUARY

TERM, 1845.

159

Searight v. Stokes et al.

any road. If Pennsylvania' had said, give us $750,000, and your
mail shall pass. free, would not such a contract have been within the
competency of the parties to make, and have been good? The consideration was a valuable one to Pennsylvania. She cannot now
deny the right of the United States 'to make the road, because she
accepted the cession, and actually'holds title under the United
States. 9 La,". U. S. 232, 233, act of surrender by United States.
There was a power reserved to Pennsylvapia to change the regulations of the road, provided the compact was not infringed. But
the act of 1836 asserts the authority of the 'legislature to vary the
original terms, and levies half tolls. It cannot be said by the other
side, that the two acts do not clash With each other, becaus6 the
legislature says they do. That the mail is property is too plain to
be arued.

-

Wfat were the circumstances under which the acts were passed ?
The road had been in use for twelve or fourteen years before 1831.
The 'mail was carried in stages, without paying any toll, in the same
description of vehicle as that now taxed. There never was any
other species of property of the United States carried on it; at least,
the record does not show that there was. %Wasit 'a lure, then, to
the government to spend $800,000 fot the privilege of passing.property free which..it bad never transported 'n the road, and was not
likely to transport?
It has been said, that because Ohio was more specific in her legislation, therefore Pennsylvania did not mean to exempt the mail.
But of what authority is the act of another state ? The object was
the same wit-X them all.'
We have the opinion of the executive and judicial departments
of Pennsylvania, 2 Watts & Sergeant, 103.
But supp6se there -was no compact. Th( act of 1836 would still
have been invalid. It is not a general law to collect tolls, but directed specifically against the mail. The property of the 'contractors
is, no doubt, subject to taxation by a state; but a law levelled exclusively against the mail is a different.thing. A power to destroy
the means implies a powei to destroy the thing itself. The case of
McCulloch v, Maryland, 4 Wheaton, was an attempt to tax' the
means .by which the bank carried on its operations. In Weston v.
City of Charleston, 2 Peters, 449, the same prirciple was established.
It was held that loans were means to execute the powers of Congress, and to tax the stock would impair the means. So, 15 Peters,
435, 448. It has been said, that if these tolls aie'not collected the
road will go out of repair. But can this be so? The whole amount
charged is only $1200 a year, upon a road on.which $800,000 were'
expended as late as 1835, built at the request of'Pennsylvnia, and
which she pledged her faith to keep in repair. It has been said also
that the privilege of passing free may be abused; that 100 stages
may be run 'upon the road. But the record present6 no such case.

160

SUPREME COURT.
Searight v. Stokes et al.

The stages are used bonajide by the contractors under their.contract
with the postmaster-general.
Walker, for plaintiffs in error,"n reply. and conclusion.
If the court shall.be against us on the interpretation of the- compact, we shall .have to invite their 'ttention t6 the following grave
questionq:
1. That the federal government has no power, under the Constitution, to construct a road within the limits of a state.
. 2. 'That the consent of a single state cannot enlaige -the powers of
the federal government, even within its own limits, and much less
within the limits of another state,
3: That the two -per cent. fund referred to in the several acts of
appropriation, was -exhausted before the road reached the Pennsylvania line.
4. That the consent of Pennsylvania, under the law of 9th of April,
1807, was based upon the appropriation of the two per cent. fund,
and that alone, to the constiction of said road within her limits.
5. That Congress-possessed no powef', under the Constitution, to
collect toll upon said road in the state of Pennsylvania.
6. That the state df Pennsylvania had jurisdiction of.said road,
bnd the right to collect toll, and possessed this power as one, of the
rights not delegated in forming the Constitution of the union, 'and
which could only -berelinquisied by an amendnient of the Constitution.
7. That the right to collect toll in this case was never surrendered.
by the -tate of Pennsylvania. .
:The power of the federal government to construct ioads has been
abandoned for eight years past. The authority to establishf postroads, is merely to designate the road from point to point; and if the.
Uiited States have no constitutional powrer, an act of bne of the
states cannot confer it. If there was no power to make the road,
there-was none to repair it or collect tolls; and an agreement to repair it was nuland void, as berg repugnant-to the Constitution..
.The jurisdiction which Pennsylvania had, originally, over the soil of
and if it had been. 'herlegislature
had road,.was
surrendered;
the
noapower.tnever
surrender
it..
histoy f ths matter. The.
The speect of Mr. Burnet gives the
friends
of the
road ruin,
in Ohio
passageto ofappropriate.
an act there. The
Copgresstherfused
it
ging'to
andobtained
road was
was a favourite in that state, but not in Pennsylvania. The latter
state had commenced- a large syst~m of improvement from Philadel.
*phiato Pittsburg, and knew that this Cumberland road would draw
off the travel from her own work8. ' The law- of Yennsylvania was,
therefore, dissimilar from that of Ohio. - Ohio did not require'the
r6ad to be put in.repair before acceptig -the cession, but Pennsyl.yaua did. There are many other important differences between the

JANUAIY TERM, 1945 .

S161

Searight v. Stoles et -al.

two.lawg. Congress hastened to-accept the Ohio law before Pennsylvania acted.. What reason is there to think that Pennsylvania intended to imitate Ohio? •There is none. If so, why was the phraseology changed? Some words must have been intentionally omitted,
and yet this court is now asked to insert them, to change places with
thd legislature at Harrisburg, and do what it refused to do. Although, in general, the mail may be property, can it be considered
so here, where there is a special exclusion Every word of a statute must receive a meaning, unless the court are compelled to consider some words synonymous. In the Ohio law, the words "mail"
and "property" are not synonymous: it exempts a "-stage or coach,
carrying the mail,"' and a "wagon or carriage, c atyingproperty of
the United States;)" referring to different vehicles, carrying different
things. The "mail" is never carried in wagons. The government
recently brought a larg copfier rock from 'Lake Superior. This
could hot have passed free unless under the head of property; Ohio
had, therefore,. two distinct. provisions inher law; Pennsylvania
adoptbd only one of them. The toll on "stages" included the coach
carrying the mail, in words aid ltters. The Ohio la w asked herto
exempt the mail, but she refused.
Butdoes "property" include the mail? Does a departnient,
when making a schedule of its property, inclide the contents of the
mail? The United States is only a ommon carrier, and paid as
such. If not, then postage is exacted for carying the property of
property of the persons interested; they
is the
wsIt
the United States.
can recover it at law. It has been said that because a common carrier has a special propertyin what he carries, therefore the United
States have a property in the mail. But this technical principle was
unknownto -the farmers and mechanics who passed the act of 1831.
Again, what is the meaning of "laden?" it is the bulk of the load.
If an officer of the United States puts a single box ina wagon, and
the rest of the load is private property, could it be said with any
rty
onp
of the goprpriety that the wagon was laden" -with the p
vernment? To justiry this, other words must be interpolated into
the law, viz., "in whole-or in part." But-they are not-there. If
sladen
"property" means the "mail," then the section must read,
with the mail ;" and if this be so, a -single'mail-bag -will not exempt
the coach from tolls. If the contractors had a. steamn-wagon conveyint 10 passengers nd a small mail-bag, would they all go free?
it is said that we atck the mail, but we do not. The government
turnpike gates everywhere else. When comp~tnies make roads
pay
With their own money, they. allow the government to use them on
the same terms .with every one else. If it can seize upon roads, the
postmaster-general would sooui get rid. of all difficulties with rail-road
companies. But we deny the right.
But upon -whom does the tax fall in this case? The record satys
that stages conv~ying nothing. but the mail pass -free. It is then
o02
VOL. JII.-91

SUPREME COURT.
Searight v. Stokes et al.

the passengers'who pay the tax. The contractors must increase the
fare. The government is not a party upon the record, and the postmaster-general has no. business to come here .by counsel. The
whole difficulty has arisen froin an effort.of contractors to draw custom to their own line from roads where tolls are charged. All opposition stages, too, must be broken down on this road, because
those stages will be charged -with toll.
It is said that passengers are a guard to the mail. They do not
consider themselves as paying their passage money for the privilege
of guarding the mail. But, upon this theory, the contractors ought
to be bound to carry some always' whereas the stages frequently
run without ahy passengers.
. Pennsylvania has been charged with iolating her faith. But how
can this be? She'derives no revenue from the road; the whole of
the tolls are expended upon repairs, aid that too in a case where her
own pecuniary interests suiffer,' because the travel is drawn away
froni her own roads. The true interest of the United States is to
maintain our view of the case; because, if tolls enough are not collected to keep' the road in repair, it must go to ruin, and then the
contractors will charge a higher price for carrying the mail, even at
a slower pace.
The act of. 1836,is only declaratory of that of 1831, and not inconsistent with it. The latter exempts wagons when laden with the
property of the United States in the, whole; and the former proportions the exemption to the amount of, property thus .owned. The
imlosition of half-toll is, in fact, a privilege granted. The whole
of the Pennsylvania legislation is one continued.series, instead of being separate and inconsistent acts. The law of 1831 accepted the
road, when it should be put in repair and'toll-houses erected. "The
act of Congress, making the appropriation, did not pass till 1834;
and in April, 1835, Pennsylvania accepted the surrender, and appointed commissioners. - Between that time and the'first Cf January,
1836, gates were erected, and the act of 1836, now under consideration, was passed without'anyloss of time. The case in Watts
& Sergeant has been referred to, but here is a certified copy of the
record, showing that, from 1836 to 1839, bills were made out quar-.
terly. Befor6 the act of 18 6, all the -stages, except the fast line,
paid tolls. * These. were therefore collected under the-act of 1831.
There were only two lines, and the'comiaisioners agreed to excuse
one, on condition that the other paid. This was half-toll, and was
the foundation of-the law.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The-question in this case is, whether the state of.Pennsylvania
can lawfully impose a toll on carriages employed in transorting the
mail of the United States over that part of the Cumberland road
which passes through the territory of that state?

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

163

S earight v. Stokes et aL

The dispute has arisen from an act of the legislature of Pennsylvania, passed in 1836, wnereby wagons, cariage,, stages, and other
modes of conveyance, carrying the United States mail, with passen-.
gers or the goods of other persons, are charged with half the toll
levied upon other vehicles of the like description. The plaintiff in
error is the commissioner and superintendent of the road, appointed
by the state. The defendants are contractors for carrying the'mail,
and they insist that their carriages; when engaged in this service,
are entitled to pass along the road free.from toll, although they are
conveying passengers and their baggage at the-same time. 4n order
to obtain the opinion of this court upon the subject, an anicable
action was institutedl by the -pl, ntiff in the Circuit Court of the
United States for .the western district of Pennsylvania, for the tolls'
directed to be collected by the law. above mentioned, and- the facts
in the ca e stated by consent, The judgment of the Circuit Court
was aainst the plaintiff, and. it is now brought here for revision
by writ of error.

The Cumberland road has been so often. the subject of public
discussion, and. the circutnstandes under which it was" cdnstructed
and afterwards surrendered to the several staieos Trough which 'it
passes, are so generally known, that we shall forbear to state- them
further than may be necessary for the purpose- of.showing the' character of the present controversy, aind explaining the principles upon
wjiich the opinion of this court is founded.
"
The road in question is the principal.line of, communication be-.
tween the seat of government and the great valley of the Mississippi. It passes through Maryland, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and
Oio, and was constructed at an immense expense- by.the 'United
States, under-the authority of different and successive acts of Coi-"
gress: the states contributing nothing either to the making of the,
road' or to the purchase of land over which it passes. They -di'
nothing more than enact laws authorizing the United. States to construct the road within their respective limits, and to obtain the land
necessary for that purpose from the individual proprietors upon the
payment of its value.
After the road-had thus been made-although it was constructed
with the utmost'care, sparing'no efforts to make it durable-it was
still found to be incapable of witlistanding the wear and tear produced by the number of carriages continually passing .oVer'it, engagd in transporting passengers, or heavily laden. with agricultural
produce or'merchandise; and that either a very great expense must
'be annually incurred in repairs, oi the road, in a short time, would
be entirely broken up and become unfit for use. As no permanent
provision had been made for these repairs, applications were made
to Congress for the nccessary funds; and as these demands upon
the public treasury unavoidably increased, as the road was extended
or longer in use, they naturally produced a strong feeling of dissat-

164

SUPREME COURT.
Searight v.Stokes et a].

isfaction and.opposition in those portions of the union which had no
immhediate interest in the road; and the constitutional power of
,Congress to make these appropriations was also earnestly, and upon
many applications, contested by many'of the eminent statesmen of .
the dountry. It therefore became evident,' that uiiless some other
*means than-appropriations from the public treasury could be devised,
a work which every one felt to be a great public convenience, in
which a large, portion of 'the 'union was directly and deeply interested, and.which had been constructed at so much cost, must soon
become a total ruin.
In this condition of things, the state of Ohio, oh the 4th of February, 1831, passed an act, proposing, with the assent of Congress,
to take under its care immediately the portion Qf the road within its
limits which was then finished, and the residue from time *totime as
different parts of it should be -completed, 'and to erect toll gates
thereon,' and to apply the tolls to the repair 'aid preservation of the
road, speciying in the law the tolls it proposed to demind, ana containing a proviso in relationi to the property of the United.States,
and to persons in its service, in the followingwords: "That no
toll shall be received or collected for'the passage of ant'stage or
coach conveying the United States mail, or horses bearing the same;
or any wagon or carriage laden -with the property of the United
States, or ariy"cavalry gr other troops, arms, ormilitary stores, belpnging to the same, or to any of the states comprising this union,
or any person oi persons on'duty in the military service bf the United
States, or of the militia of any of the states. ' - On the 2d of March,
in the same year, Congress passed a law assenting to this act of
.Ohio, which is recited at- large in the act of Congress, with all its
provisions and stipulations.
The measure proposed by the state of. Ohio seems to' have been
received with general approbation;' and on the 4th of April; 1831,
.Pennsylvania, about two mionths after the. passage of the law of
Ohio, passed anact similar in its principles, but varying from it in
some respects on'account of-the different cbndition of the road in
the two states. In Ohio it .was new and unworn, and therefore
needed no repair; .while in Pennsylvania, where it had been in use
for several years, it was in a state of great dilapidation. Whle
proposing, therefore, to take it under the care of the state, and to
charge the tolls specified in the act, it.annexed a condition that the
Uniied States should first put so much of it as passed through that
state in good repair, and an appropriation be also made by Congress
for erecting.toll-houses and toll-gates upon it. The clause in relation to ihe -passage of the property of the Unitd States over the
road;'also varies from the language of the, Ohio law, and is in the
following words; "That no toll shall be received or collected for
-the passage of any wagon, or 'arriage laden with the property of

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

165

Searight v. Stokes et al.

the United States, or any cannon or military stores belonging to the
United States, or to any of 'the states composing this union."
The example of Pennsylvania was followed by Maryland and
Virginia, at the next succeeding sessions of .their -respective legislatures: the law of Maryland -being pa sed on the 23d of January,
1832, and the Virginia law on the 7th of February following. The
proviso in relation to the property of the United 'States, in the
Maryland act, is precisely the same with that-of Pennsylvania, and
would seem to have been copied from it, while the proviso in-the
Virginia law, upon this subject, follows almost literally the law of

Ohio.
Withthese several acts of Asembly before them, Congress, on.
the- 3d of July, 1832, passed a law declaring the assent of the
United States to the la*s of Pennsylvania and Maryland, to remain
in force during the pleasure of Congress; and the sum of $150,000
was appropriated to repair the.road east of the Ohio river, and to
make the other needful improvements required by the laws of these.
two states. No mention is made of Virginia in thi:,.act of Congress,
because in her law the previous reparation of the road, andthe
erection of toll-houses and gates, at the expense of the United
States, was not in express terms made the condition upon "which
she accepted the surrender of the road; but the assent-of Congress
was afterwards given to her law by the act of March 2d, 1833,
which, like the contract with the two other states, was to remain in
force during the pleasure of'Congress.
The sum appropriated, as above mentione-d, was, however, found
insufficient for the purposes for which it was intended, and by an
act of June 24th, 1834, the further sum of $300,000 was appropriated; and this act states the appropriation to be made for the
entire completion of the road east of the Ohio, and other needful
improvements, to carry into effect the laws of Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Virginia; each of which is particularly referred to in the
act of Congress; and further directs that as lar as that sum is. expended, or so much of it as shall be necessary, the road should be
surrendered to the states respectively through which it paWed.
But so greatly had the rqad become dilapidated, that, even -t ese
large su s were found inadequate to place it in a proper condition,
and by the act.of March 3d, 1835, the further sum of $ 3 4 6 ,1884r,
was a propriated; but this law directed that no part o it should
be paid or expended until the three states should respectively acceptthe surrender; and that the United States -" should not thereafter
be subject to any expense in relation to the said road-.Y' . Under.this"
act of Congress the surrender was accordingly- accepted, inz-.35,
and the money applied as directed by tlbe'act of Congress, and'from
that time the road has been in the.possession of and under the ontrol of the several states, with toll-gates upon it. This is :he hi .
tory of the road, and of the legislation of Congress and the states

166

"SgUPREME COURT.
Searight v. Stokes et al.

upon that subjecf, (so far as it is necessary mow to state it,) up to
the time when the road passed into .the 'hands of the states. We
shall have occasion hereafter to sreak 'more particularly of the act
of Congress last mentioned, because it is the act under which the
states finally took possession f the road.
When the new arrangement first went into operation no toll was
charged in any of te states upon carriages transporting *themail of
the United States and no toll upon such carriage.s has ever yef'been
claimed in Ohio, Maryland, or Virginia. But on the. 13th of June,
1836, the state of Pennsyivania. passed a law, declaring that carriages, &c.,-carrying the property of the United States or of a state,
which 'ere exempted from the paynent of toll by the act of 1831,
-shduld thereafter be exempted only in proportion to the amount of
property in such parriage belonging to the United States or a state,
and,"' that in all 'cases of Wagons'; carriages, stages, or other modes
of conveyance, carrying the United States mail, with. passengers or
goods, such'wagon, stage, or other mode of conveyance shall pay
half-toll upon such modes of conveyance."1 'And we. are "iow to
inquire whether this half-toll chn be imposed upon carriages carrying
tie mail under the compact between the United States and Pennsylvnia.
- It will. be seen from this statement, that the constituoional -power
of the general government to construct this road is not involved in
the case before us; nor is this court called upon to express any opi-"
nion upon that subject; 'nor to inquire what were the'rights of the
United Sfates in the road previous to the compacts ereiiibefore
mentioned. The road had in fact been made at the, e.pense 'of the
* general government. It was the great line of connection between
'the seat of government and the western states and territories, affording a convenient and safe channel for-the conveyance of'the mails,
and enabling the government thereby to communicate more prompt-.
ly with -its- numerous officers and agents in that part of the UnitedStates wet' of the Alleghany mountains. The. object of the conipacts was to preserve, the road for the purposes for which it had
been made: The right-of the -everal states to enter into these agreements will hardly be'questioned.by any one. A state may undoubtedly grant to an indlidual or'a corporati6n a right of way-through its
territory upoa such teixhs- and conditions'as it'thinks proper; and
we see no reason why it may not deal inlike manner with the United,
.States, when -the latter" have the- power to enter into the contract.
Neither do we see any juist ground for questioning the power of
Congress. The' onstibtion gi%'es, it the power to establish postoffices and post-r'oads ; and charged, as it thus is, with the transportation of the mails, it would hardly have performed itsduty to the
cowitry, if it had suffered 'this.important line of communication to
fall into utter ruin, and sought out, as it must have done, some cir-

cuitous or tardy and difficult-ioute,-wheu by the immediate payment

JANUARY TERM, 145.
Searight

.

167

Stokes et'al,

of an equivalent it obtained in perpetuity the mens of performijig
efficiently a great public duty, which the Constitution has imposea.
upon the general government. Large-as the sum -was which it paid
for repairs, it was evidently a wise economy to make the expenditure. It secured .this convenient and important road-for its mails,
where the cost of t ansporting them is comparatively moderate, instead of being compelled to incur a far heavier annual expense, as'
they must have done, if,
1y the destruction of this road, they had
been forced upon routes more circuitous or difficult, when muclh
higher charges must have been demanded by the contractors. Certainly, neither Ohio, nor Pennsylvania,. nor Maryland, .norVirginia,
appear from their laivs to have doubted their own power or the
power of Congiess. But we do not understand, that Pennsylvania
now upon any ground disputes the validity of the compact or denies
her obligation to perform it; on the contrary, she asserts her readiness to fulfil it hi all its parts, according to its true meaning; but
denies the construction placed upon it by the United States. It is
to that part of the case, therefore, that it becomes the duty of the
court to turn its particular atteniion.
It is true, that in the law of Pennsylvania, -and of Maryland also,
assented to by Congress, the exempti6n of carriages engaged in carrying the mail is not so clearly and specifically provided. for as in the
Laws of Ohio and Virginia. But in interpreting these contracts the
character of the parties, the relation in which they stand to one
another, and the objects they evi,ently had in view, must all be considered. "And we should hardly carry out their true meaning and
intention if we treated the contract as'one between individuals, barraining with each other with adverse interests, and should apply to
tthe same strict and technical rules of' construction that are appropriate to cases of that description. This, on the contrary, is a contract between two governments deeply concern.ed in the welfare of
each other; whose dearest interests and"happiness are closely and
inseparably lound up together, and where an injury to one cannot
fail to be felt by the other. Pennsylvania, most undoubtedly, was
anxious to give to the general government every aid and facility in
its power, consistent with justice to its own citizens, and the government of the-United States was actuated by a like spirit.
This was the character of the parties and the relation in which
they stood. Besides, a considerable number of the citizens of the
state had a direct interest in the preservation of the road; and the
state had manifested its sense of the importance of the work by the
act of Assembly of 1807, which authorized'the construction of the
road within its limits; and again in the resolution passed in1828,
by which it propose d tb confer upon Congress the power of erecting
gates and charging toll. Yet the only value of this road to the
general government worth- considering is for the transpdrtation of
the- mails; and -inIthat point. f view it is far more important than
-

168

SUPREME COURT.
Searight v. Stokes et al.

any other .post-road in' the union. Occasionally, indeed, arms ormilitary stores may be transported over it; and sometimes a portion
of the military force may pass along it. But these occasions for its
use, especially in time of peace, but rarely occur; the daily and
necessary use of the road by the United States is as a post-road,
forming an almost indispensable link in the chain of communication
from the seat of government to its western'bordets.
Now, as this was well known to the parties, can it be supposed
that when Pennsylvania, by her act of 1831, proposed to take the
road, and keep it in repair from the tolls collected upon it, and.exempted from toll carriages laden with the property of the United
States, she yet intended to charge it upon the mails? That in return for the *large'expenditire she required to be made, before she"
would receive the road, she confined her exemption to matters of no
importance. and reserved the right to tax all that was of real value?
And when Congress assented to.the proposition, and incurred such,
heavy expenses for repairs, did they mean to leave their mails through
Maryland and Pennsylvania still liable to the toll out of which the
road was to be kept in repair? Upon this point the act of Congress
of March 3d, 1835, is entitled to great consideration.. For it was
under this law that the states finally tock possession of the road and
proceeded to collect the tolls. By so doing they assented to all the
provisions contained in this act of Congress; and one of them is an
express condition, that the United States should not thereafter be
subject to. any expense in relation to the road. Yet under the argumeit, the expenses of the road are to be defrayed oit of the tolls
collected upon it. And if the mails in Pennqlvania and Maryland
may be charged, it will be found, that instead of the entire exemption, for which the United States so expressly stipulated, and'to
which Pennsylvania agreed, a very large proportion of the expenses
of repair will be annually thrown upon them. We do not think that
either party could have intended, when the contract was made, to
burden the United States in this indirect way for the cost of repairs.
So far as the general governinent is concerned, it might as well be
paid directly from the Treasury. For nobody, we -suppose, will
doubt that this toll, although in form it is paid by the contractors, is
in fact paid by the Post-office Department. It is not a contingent
expense, which may or may not be incurred, 'and about whiclh a
contractor may speculate; but a certain and fixed amount, for which.
he must provide, and which, therefore. in his bid for the contract, he
must add to the sum he would be otherwise willing to take. It is
of no consequence -to the United States whether charges for repairs
are cast upon it through its Treasury or Post-office Department. In
either case it is not free from expense in relation to the road, according to the compact upon which it -was surrendered to and accepted
the states.
by
. Neither
do the words of the law of Pennsylvfnia of 1831 require

JANUARY

TERM, .1845.

169

Searigh.t v. Stokes et al.
a dlifferent construction. The United States have unquestionably a
property in the mails. They are not mere common carriers, but a
government, performing a high official duty ii holding and. guarding its own property as well as that of its citizens committed to its
care; for aivery large portion of the letters and packages conveyed
on this road, especially during the session of Congress, consists of
communications to or from the officers of the executive department,
or members of the legislature, on public service or in relation to mat'ters of public concern., Nor. can the word laden be construed to
mean fully laden, for thatwould in effect .destroy'the whole value
of the exemption, and compel, the United States to pay a toll even
on its military stores and other. property, unless every wagon or
carriage employed in transporting it was as heavily laden as it
could conveniently bear. We think that a carriage, whenever it is
carrying the'mail, is laden with the property of the United States
within the true meaning of the compact: and that the act of Congress of which we*have spoken, and to which the state assented,
must be taken in connection with, the state law of 1831 in expounding this agreement. Consequently, the half-toll imposed by the
act of 1836 cannot be recovered..
The acts of assembly of Ohio and Virginia have been relied on
in the argament *bythe plaintiff in error; and it has been urged
that, inasmuch as the laws of these states, in so many words,
exempt carriages carrying the mail. of the'United States, the omission of these words in the law in question shows that Pennsylvania
intended to reserve the right to charge them with toll. And it is
moreover insisted that, as the law of Ohio which contains this provision papsed some time before the~act of Pennsylvania,' it ought to
be prdsumed that the law of the latter was drawn and passedwith
a full knowledge of what had been done by the former, and that the.
stipulation in favour of the mail was desianedly and intentionally
omitted, b'ecause the state of Pennsylvania meant to reserve the
right to charge it.
The court think otherwise. Even if the law of Ohio is supposed
to have been before the legislature of Pennsylvania, it does not by
any means follow that the omission of sotiie of its words would
justify the inference urged in the argument, where the words
retained, by their fair construction, conv6y. the same meaning.
Indeed, if it appeared that the Ohio law was in fact before the
legislatqre of Pennsylvania when it framed its own act upon -the
For
conclusion.
lead
to a contrary
ratherthat
seemintothe
would
subject,
"it
cannotithe
supposed
cornlact
'which the
United' States
four been
'ifferent states and when 'the agreefori-with
was
mentabout
with to
one
would '-have
of no value without the others,
privileges
heror
Lorany
would
have'desired
Pennsylvania
self which were not extended to th asked
ther states,
nor
that she to
would'
be less anxious to give every facility in her power to the general
P
VOL. II.-22

170

SUPREME COURT.
Searight v. S.tokes ,'t a].

government when carrying out, through her territory the important
and necessary operations of the Post-office Department. Nor could
she have supposed that Congress would give privileges to one state
which were denied to others; and, after having done equal justice
to all in the repair and preparation of the road wherever needed,
make different contracts with the different states; and, while it baigained.for the exemption of its mails in one or more of theni, consent to pay toll in another. The fact that they are clearly and
explicitly exempted from toll in Ohio and Virginia is a strong ar-gument to show that it was intended to exempt them in a ll, and ltat
the compacts with Pennsylvania and Maryland were understood
and believed to mean the same thing; and tio -accmplishthe same
objects. And this conclusion is greatly strengthened by the fact
that Maryland, where the words of the law. are.precisely the same
with those of Pennsylvania, has never claimed the right to exact
toll frd6m carriages carrying the mail; nor did Pennsylvania claim
it in the first instance, and they m:ere always allowed to pass free
until the -act of 1836. Indeed that law itself appears to recognise
the right of the mail and other property of the United States to go
free, and the imposition of only half-toll would seem toimply, that
the state intended to reach other objects, and did not desire to lay
the burden upon any thing -that-properly belonged to the United
States. And so far as'-we njudgefrom its legislationPennsylvania has never to this day placed any other construction upon its
compact 'han the one we have given, and has never desired to
depart from it;
If we are right in this view of the subject, the error consists in
the mode by which the state endeavoured to attain its object.- Unquestionably the exemption of carriages bearing ihe mail is no
exemption of any other property conveyed in the same vehicle, nor
of any person travelling in it, unless he is in the service of the
United States,. and passing along in pursuance of orders from tle
proper auth6nity. Upon all other persons, although travelling
the mail-stage, and upon their baggage or any other property,
e carriage with the mail, the state Of
although conveyed in th
ay lawfully collectI the same toll 'that she charges
Pennsylvania
eitheir upon passengers or imilar property in other velicles. If
into
nt entered
had States,
she might
road herself,
United
thissubject
with the and
madethe
any compact
state had upon
the
United
the
if
and
thereon,
toll-gtes
undoubtedly have erected
afterwards adopted it as a post-road, the carriages engaged
States
in their service ih transporting the mail, or otherwise, would have
been liable to pay the same charges that were imposed by the state
on other vehicles of the same kind. And as any rights which the
United States might be supposed to have acquired in this road have
been surrendered to the state, the power of the Jatter is as extensive
in collecting toll as f tee road had been mde by herself, except

JANUARY TERM, 1845.
Searight t?. Stokes et al.

171

.in so far as she is restricted by her compact; and that compact
does nothing more than exempt the carriages laden with the property of the United States, and the persons and baggage of those
who are engaged in their service. Toll may therefore be imposed
ipon every thing else in any manner passing over the road; restricting, however, the application of the money collected to the repair
of the road, and to the salaries and compensation of the persons
employed by the state in that duty.
It has been .strongly lpressed in the argument, that the construction placed upon the compact by the court would enable the contractors to 'drive every other line of stages from the road, by dividing.
the mail-bags among a multitude of carriages, each of which would
be entitled to pass toll free, while the rival carriages would be compelled- to pay it: And that by this means the contractors for carrying the mail would in effect obtain a monopoly in the conveyance of. passengers throughout the entire length 6f the.road, greatly
injurious to the public, by lessening that disposition tqadcommodate
which competition is sure to produce, and ehancing the 'cost of
travelling beyond the limits of a fair compensation.
The answer to this argument is, that under the agreement they
have made, according to its just import, the United States cannot
claim an exemption for more, carriages than are necessary for the
safe, speedy, and corivenient conveyance of the mail. And if measures such as are suggested were adopted by.the contractors, it would
be a violation of the compact. The postmaster-general has unquestionably the right to designate not only the character and descriptionof the vehicle in which the mail is to be carried, but also the number
of carriages to be employed on every post-road. And it can scarcely, we think, be supposed, that any one filling that high office, and
actinr on behalf of the United States, would suffer the true spirit and
meaning of the contract with the state to be violated or evaded by
any contractor acting under the authority of his department. But
undoubtedly, if such a case should ever occur, the contract, accord:
ing to its true construction, could be enforced by the state in the
courts of justice; and every. carriaae beyoria theniumber reasonably
sufficient for the safe, speedy, an convenient tramsportation of the
mail would be liable to the toll -imposed upon similavehicles owned
by other individuals. "Ia a case wherean error in the post might be
so injurious to Itle public, it would certainly be necessary that the
abuse should be clearly shown before the remedy was applied. But
there can be no doubt, that the compact in question, in the case supposed, would not shield the contractor, and. upon a case properly
made out and established, it would be the "dutyof a court of justice
to enforce the payment of the 1lls. No such fact, bo-vaver, appears
or is suggested in the case before us, and the judgment of the.Cicult Court is.therefore affirmed.

172

SUPREME COURT.
Searight i. Stokes et al.

Mr. Justice McLEAN.
I dissent from the opinion of the court. And as the case involves
high principles .and, to some extent, the action and powers of a
sovereign state, I will express' my opinion.
This was an amicable action to try whether the defendants, who
are contractors for the transportation of the mail on the Cumberland
road, are liable, under the laws of Pennsylvania, to pay toll for
stages in which the mail of the United States is conveyed.
This road was constructed by the federg governiient through the
state of Pennsylvania, with its consent. Whether this power was
thus constitutionally exercised, is an inquiry not necessarily involved
in the decision of -this case. The road was made, and for some
years it .vas. occasionally repaired by appropriations "fromthe Treasury of the United. States. These appropriations were made with
reluctance at -all times, and sometimes were defeated. This, as a
permanent system of keeping the road in repair, was, of necessityj
abandoned; .and, with the assent of Pennsylvania, Congress passed
a-bill to construct toll-gates and impose a tax-on thosewho used the
road. This bill was vetoed' by the.President, on the groiand that
Congress had no constitutiol. alt power-to pass it. The plan was then
adopted to cede the road, on cettain conditions; to the states"through
which it had been established.
On the 4th of April, 1831, Pennsylvania passed "An act for the
preservation of the Cumberland road."
By'the 1st section it .was-provided, that as sdon as the consent of
the government of the United States shall have been btained, certain commissioners, who were, named, were to be -appointed, whose
duties in regard to the road-were specially defined. The 2d section
enacted, that to keep so much of the road in repair asKlies in the state
of Pennsylvania, and pay the expense of collection, &c., the commissioners should cause six toll-gates to be.erected, and certain'rates
of toll were established. to this section there was a proviso, '(that
no toll shall be received or collected for the passage of any wagon
or carriage laden with the property of the United StatEs, or any.cannon or military stores belonging to the United States or to any of the.
states composing the union."
By the 4th sectioji the tolls were to be applied, after paying expenses of collection, &c., to the repairs of the road, the'commissioners having. power to increase them, provided they shall not exceed.
the rates of toll on the Harrisburg and Pittsburg road. The last
section provided that the tol'should hot be altered below or above
a sum necessary to defray the expenies incident to the preservation
andrepair of said road, &c., and also, "thatno change, alteration, or
amendment -shall-ever be adopted, that will in any wise defeat or affect the true intent'and meaning of this act."
By. the 10th section of the "ab6ve act it was declared to have no
effect until Congress should assent to the same, "and untifso much

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

173

Searight v. Stokes et a].
of the said road as passes through the state of Pennsylvania be first
put in a good dtate of repair, and an appropriation made-by Congress
for erectifig toll-houses and toll-gates thereon, to be expended under
.
the autherity of the commissioners appointed by this act."
By their act of the 24th. of June, 1834, Congress appropriated $300,000 'to repair the Cumberland road east of the Ohio river,
which referred to'the above' act of Pennsylvania, and also to similar
acts passed by Virginia and Maryland. And in the 4th sdetion of
the act it was protVided, "that-as soon as the sum by this act appropriated, or so much thereof as is necessary; shall be expended in the
repair of said road agreeably to the provisions of this act, the same
shall be surrendered to the states respectively through. -which said
road passes; and the United States-shall not thereafter be silbject to
This surrender'of the road.
any expense for repairing' said road.'
was accepted by Pennsylvania, by an act of the. 1'st of April, 1835.
The aLove acts constitute the compact between the state of Pennsylvania and the 'union, in regard to the surrender of this road. The
nature .and extent 'of this "compact are now to be considered.
As before remarked; the 'constitutional power of Congress to construct this road is-not necessarily involved in this decision. By the
act of Congress of the.30th of April, -1802, to authorize the people"
of Ohio to "form a constitution and state government," among
other propositions for the acceptance of the state, it was proposed
that "five'per 'cent. of the net proceeds'of the -hnds lying-within
the said state, sold. by Congress, should be applied to the laying out
and making public roads leiding from -he navigable waters falling
int6 the.Atlafitic, to the- OliQ,.'to: the. said state,'and through the
same ; such roads to be laid under the authority of Congress, -with'
the consent of ihe several states through which'the roads shall pass:
provided the stite shall agree not to tax land sold by the govern- ment until after the. expration of five years from the time of such
sale."
By-the 2d section of the act of the 3d March, 1803, three .per.
cent. of the-above- fund was placed at the disposition of the state, to
be "applied to the laying out, :opening, 'anid'making roads, within
the state."
The 'above conditions, having been accrepted by. Ohio, constitutedthe compact under which the Cumberland road. was laid out and'
constructed by the authority of Congress.- And of this worlk it ray
be said, however great has been the expenditure through the inexperience or infaithfulness cf public agents, that no public work has
been so diffusive in its benefits ta 'the -country. It opened a new
avenue of commerce between the eastern and westein states. Since
its completion, and while it wes kept in repair, the annual transporration bf goods and travel. 6n it saved an expense equal to no inconsiderable part of the cost of the road. But its cession.to the -states
P2

174

SUPREME COURT.
Searight v. Stokes et al.

through which it was established was found necessdry to raise, by
tolls, an annual revenue for its repair.
*Whatever expenditure was incurred in the construction of this
road beyond the two per cent. reserved by the compactwith Ohio,
was amply repaid by the beneficial results of the work; and this
was-the main object of Congress. It was a munificent object, and
worthy of the legislature of a great nation.
The road was surrendered to Pennsylvania and .the other states
through which it had been constructed. But what was ceded to
Pennsylvania? All the right of the United States which was not
reserved by the compact of cession. This right may be supposed to
arise from the compact with Ohio; the consent of Pennsylvania to
the construction of the road, and the expense of its. construction,
including the sums paid to individuals for the right of way. These,
and whatever jurisdiction over the road, -if any, might be exercised
by the United States, were surrendered to Pennsylvania.. The rohd
then must be considered as much within the jurisdiction and control of Pennsylvania, excepting the rights reserved in the compact,
as if it had been constructed-by the funds of that state. It is, therefore, important to ascertain the extent of the rights reserved by the
United States.
In the closing paragraph of the 2d section of the act of 1831,
above cited, it is provided, "1that no toll shall be received or collected for the passage of any wagon or carriage laden -with the
property of the United States, or any cannon or military stores belonging to the United States, or to any of the states composing this
union." In addition to this, there were certain limitations imposed,
as to the amount of tolls, on the state of Pennsylvania, which need
not now be considered.
Some light may be cast on the import of the above reservation by
a reference to somewhat similar compacts made in regard to the
same subject between tle United States ind the states of Ohio,
Maryland, and Virginia. The Ohio act of the 2d of March, 1831,
provides, in the 4th section, "1that no toll shall be received or collected for the passage of any stage or coali conveying the United
States maili or horses .bearing the sain, or any wagon or carriage
laden.with the property of the-United States, or any cavalry or other
troops, arms, or military stores, belonging to the same, or to any of
the states comprising this union, or any person or persons on duty
in the military service of the United States, or of the militia of any
of the states." The 4th section of.the Maryland act of the 23d of
January, 1832, provided, "that no tel.ls shall bq received or collected for the passage of any wagon or carriacre laden with the pro.
perty of- the United States, or, any cannon or m1iitaiy stores belonging
to te United States, or to any of the states, composing this union.l
In the Virginia -act of the 7h of FebrUary, 1832, it -is prqvided,
" that no toll shall be received or collected for the passage. of any

JANUARY- T-RM, 1845.

175

Searigh.t v. Stokes e t al.

stage or coach conveying the United States mail, or horses bearing
the same, or any wagon or carriage laden with property of the
United States, or any cavalry .,Qrbther troops, army or military
stores, belonging, to th-e same, or to any-of the states comprising
this unipn, ' any person or persons on duty in the military service
of the United States, or of the militia of any of thestates."
The-reservations in the Pennsylvania and Maryland' acts are the
same, and diffir materially from those contairied in~the acts of Ohio
and Virginia. In the latter acts the mail-stage is excepted, but not
in the former. ' Pennylvania and Maryland exempt from toll "1any
wagon or carriage lhden with the property of the United States -"
but the same exemption is contained in the Ohio and Virginia laws
in hddition to that of the mailzstage. Now, can the reservations in
these respective acts be construed to mean the same thing ? Is
there no difference between the -acts of Ohio and Pennsylvania?
Their language is different, and must not their meaning be sought
from the words in the respective acts? They are separate an1 istinct compacts. The Ohio law was first enacted, and was, probably,
before the legislature of Pennsylvania when their .act was passed.
But whether this be the fact -or not, they were both sanctioned, by
Congress; and the -question-is, whether both compacts are substantially the same? That the Jegislaturms did hot mean the same thing
seems to me to be clear of all dobilt: Did Cong-ess, in acceding
t'o these acts, consider that they were of the same import ? Such a
doing'violence to the lanpretun tion cannot be sustained'-without
acts.
guage of the respective
In both acts wagons laden with the property of the United States
are exempted. In the Ohio act the mail-stage is exempted from
toll, but not in the -act of Pennsylvania. Now, is the mail-stage
exempted from toll by both acts or by neither? Is not either of
these positions equally unsustainable? The -exemption of the mailstage must be struck out of the Ohio law to sustain one- of these
positions, and to sustain the other it must be inserted in the'.act of
Pennsylvania. Does not the only difference consist in striking out
in the one case and inserting in the other? This must be admitted
unless the words, "wagon or carriage laden with the property of the
United States," mean one thing in the Ohio law; and quite a different thing in the law of Pennsylvania. These words have a sensible
and obvious application in both acts, without including the mailstage. In the Ohio law the words "1io toll shall be received or
collected for the passage of any stage or coach con';eying the
United -States mail," cannot,- by any sound construction, be considered as surplusage; and yet they must be so considered if the
Ppnnsylvania.act exempt the mail-stage.
When one speaks of transporting the property of the United
States, the meaning of the terms "property of the United States,"
is never mistaken. They mean munitions of war, provisions pur-

. 176

SUPREME COURT.
Searight v. Stakes et al.

-chased for the support of the army, and any other property purchased for the public revenue. They do not mean the mail of the
United States. A wagon laden with property is understood to be i
wagon used for the transportation of property,, in the ordinary sense
of such terms. A wagon or carriage being laden is understood tohave a full or usual load. The mail-stage of the United States is
never spoken of in this sense. It is used for the" transportation of
passengers as well as the. mail, and in*this view it is undoubtedly
considered when spoken of in conversation, and especially when
referred to.in a legislative .act. In n&. sense can the mail-stage be
considered a "carriage laden with the property of the United States."
The same excepfion applies to a wagon or carriage laden with the
property of'a state. Now'no one-ca" doubt Jhe meaning of the
exception thus applied. And can a different meaning be given to
the same words when applied to the Unite(. States? " Certainly not,
unless the -mail can" be denominated the "property of the United
States.'
The mail of the United States is not the- property of the United
States. What constitutes the mail? Not the leathern bag, but its
contents. A stage load of mail-bags could not be called the mail.
They might be denohiinated the property of the United States, but
not the -mail. The mail consists of packets of letters made up with
post-bills, and directed to certain- post-offices for distribution or delivery; and whether these be conveyed in a bag or out of it, they
are equally the mail ; but no bag without them is. or-can be called
the mail. Can these packets- be said to be the property of the
United States? The letters and their contents belong to individuals.
No officer in the -government can abstract a letter from the mail, not
directed to him, without incurring the penalty of the law. And
can these letters or mailed pamphlets or newspapers be called the
property of the United States? They in no sense, belong to the
United States,' and are never so denominated. If a letter be stolen
'from the mail which contains a bank-note, the property in the note
is laid in the person who wrote the letter in which the note is enclosed. From these views I am brought to the -conclusion that
neither party to the compact under consideration could have understood "1a wagon or carriage laden with the property of the United
States," as including the mail-stage of the United States.
Are there any considerations connected with this subject which
lead to a -different conclusion from that -stated. The fact that four
distinct compacts were entered into with four states to keep this
road in repair, cannot have this effect. We must judge of the in- tention of the parties to the compact by their language.
I know of
no other rule of construction. Two of these compacts exempt the
mail-stage from toll, and two of them do not exempt it. Now, if
the'sane construction- 'inthis respect, must be.given to all of them,

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

177

Searigbt v. Stokes et al

which of the alternatives shall be adopted? Shall the mail-stage
be exempted by all of them, or not exempted by any of them?
What effet can the expenditures of the United States, in -the
construction of this road, have upon this question? In my judgment,'none whatever. The reservation must be construea by its
terms, and not by looking behind it. The fedetal government has
been amply repaid for the expenditures in the construction of this
road, great and wasteful as they may have been, by the resulting
benefits to the nation, It is now the road of Pennsylvania, subject
only to the terms of the compact. In the act surrendering this
road to the states respectively, through which it passes, Congress
say, .'f and :the United States shall not thereafter be subject to any
expense for repairing said road." To- get clear of this expense
was the object of the cession of it to the states. But does this
affect the question under consideration. The repairs of the road
are provided for, by the tolls which thie state of Pennsylvania is
authorized'to impose. And this is the meaning of the above provision. It is supposed, that the exaction of toll'on the mail-stagex
would conflict with that provision. -But how does it conflict with
it? The toll on the mail-stage is not paid by the government, but
by the contractor. And whether this toll will increase the price
paid by the.goverrinent for the transportation of the mail, is a matter that cannot be determined. Competition is invited and bids
are made for this servyice, and the price to be paid depends upon
.contingent circumstances. The toll would be paid, in part, if not
in whole, by a small increase of price for the transportation of
passengers. The profits of the contractor might, perhaps, be somewhat lessened by the toll, or it might increase, somewhat, the cost
of conveying the mail. But this, is indirect and contingent; so
that in no simse can it be considered as repugnant to the above
provision. "'The United States are not to be subject to any
expense for repairing this road ;" and they are not, in the sense of
the law, should the Post-office Department have to pay, under the
contingencies named, a part of the toll stated. Whether it does
pay it or not, under fiture contracts, cannot be known; and what-'
ever expense it may pay, will be for the use, and not the repain, of
the road.
The act of the 13th of June, 1836, which is supposed to be in
violation of*the compact, I will now consider. That act provides,
"That all wagons, carriages, or other modes of conveyance, passing upon that part of the Cumberland road which passes through7
Pennsylvania, carrying goods, cannon, or military stores belonging
to the United States, or to any individual state of the union, which
are excepted from the payment of toll by the second section of an
act passed the 4th of April, 1831, shall extend only so far as to
relieve such wagons, arriages, and other modes of conveyance,
from the payment of' toll-to the proportional amount of such'goods
VoL. III.-23

178

SUPREME COURT.
Searight v, Stokes et al.

so carried belonging to the United States, or to any of the individual states of the. union; and that in all cases of wagons, carriages. stages, or other modes of conveyance, carrying the United
States mail, with passengers or goods, such wagon, stage, or other
mocte ot conveyance, shall pay half-toll upon such modes of conveyance."
By the act of 1831,. "every chariot, coach, coachee, stage,
wagon, phaeton, or chaise, with two horses and four wheels, were
•to-be charged at each gate twelve cents for either of the carriages
last mentioned, with four horses, eighteen 'cents." Is the act of
1836, which imposes half-toll on "the mail-stage, with passengers
or goods," repugnant to the above provision? I think it is not, in
any respect.
.If the mail be. not the property of the United States, then the
stage in which it is conveyed is not within the exception of the
act of 1831, and it is liable to pay toll. That only which is within
the exception is exempted. That the mail is in no sense the prop'erty of the United States, and was not so understood by the parties
to the compact, has already been shown. It follows, therefore,
that a law of Pennsylvania, imposing on such stage a half or full
rate of toll, is no violation of the compact.
'.But, if the mail-stage were placed on a footing with a wagon or
carriage laden with the propery of the United States, is the act of
1836, requiring it to pay toll, a violation of the compact? I think it
is 'not. A wagoh or carriage laden with the property' of the United
States, means a wagon or carriage having, as before remarked, a
full or usual load. Such a vehicle is exempted from toll by 'the act
of 1831. But suppose such wagon or carriage should have half its
load, of the property of the United States,-and the other half of the
property of individuals, for which the ordinary price for transportation was paid; is such a wagon, thus laden, exempted from toll?
Surely 'it is not. An exer~ption under such circumstances would
be a fraud upon the compact. It should be required to pay halftolli and this is what -the law of Pennsylvania requires. The mailstage by that law is only half-toll, when it conveys passengers with
the mail. There is, then, no legal objection to the exaction of this
toll. It is in.every point of view just, and within the spirit of the
compact.
In.the argument for the United States, the broad ground was
assumed, that no state had the power to impose a toll on a stage
used for the transportation of the mail. That it is a means of the
federal, government to carry into effect its constitutional powers,
and, consequently, is not a subject of state taxation. To sustain
'this position the cases of"McCulloch v. The State of Maryland,
4 Wheaton, 316, and Dobbins v. The Commissioners of Erie
'County, 16 Peters, 435, were cited.
In the first case, this court held, "that a state government had no

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

179

Searight v. Stokes et aL
right to tax any of the constitutional means employed by the. gQverxment of the union, to execute its constitutional powers." And the
Bank of the United States was held to be a means of the govemment. In the second case, under a general law of Pennsylvania
imposing a tax on all officers, a tax was assessed on th office held
by th& pIkintiff, as captain of a revenue-cutter of the United States,
and this court held that such law, so far as it affected sach an officer,
was unconstitutional and void. The court say, "there, is, a concur!
rent right of legislation in the states and the United States, except.
as both are restrained by the Constitution of the United. Stateo.
Both are restrained by expreis prohibition: in the Constitution; and
the states by such as are reciprocally implied when the exercise -of
a right by a state conflicts with the perfect execution -of another
sovereign power delegated to the United, States. That occuis when
taxation by a state acts upon the instruments and emoluments - and
persons which the United States may use and employ as necessary
and proper ieans to execute their sovereigin power."2
Neither of these cases reach or affect. ie principle involved in
the case under consideration. The officer of te United States Was
considered as a means or instrument of the gove.ument, and, therefore, could not be taxed by the state as an officer. , To make that
case the same in principle "as .th, oie before us, .the officer must
claim exemption from toll as a means of the government, in plssiig
over a toll-bridge or turnpike-road constructed by. a state, or by- an
association of individual&, under a state law., 'The principle of the
other case is equally inapplicable
Maryland taxed. the franchise
of the Bank of the United States, and if the Jaw' establislang- that
bank were constitutional, the franahise was nb -more liable'to taxation by a state than rights and privileese eonfbrred on -,one-or more
individuals,, under any law of the union. With the sh-ie.projpriety
a judge of the United States might be subjected to a tac.by a state
for the exercise of his judicial functions. And so of eveiy other
officer and public agent. But the court held that,th- stock ifi the
ban- owned by a citizen might be taxed.
A toll exacted'for the passage over- a bridge or on aturnpike-roa
is not, strictly speaking, a tax. - It-s a. compe)isation f6r a benefit
conferred. Money has been expefided in the cnstruction of the
road, or bridge, which adds greatly to- the comforts and fa'ilities of
travelling, and on this ground compensation is demanded. Now,
can the United States .laim the right to use such road or bridge free.
from toll? Can they place locomotives on the rail-roads of the states
or of companies, and use them by virtue of their sovereignty? Such"
acts would appropriate private property for public purposes, without
compensation; and this the Constitution of the union prohibits.
It is said, in the argument; that bas well might -a; revenue-cutter be
taxed by a state ap to impose a toll on the stage -which conveys the
mail. The revenue-cutter plies on the thoroughfare of natioiis or of

180

SUPREME COURT.
S'earight v. Stokes et al.

the state, which is open to all vessels. But the stage passes over an
artificial structure of great expense, which is only common to all who
pay for its use a reasonable compensation. There can be no difficulty on this point. At no time, it is believed, has the Post-office
Department asserted the right to use the turnpike-roads of a state, in
the transmission of the mail, free from toll.
Pennsylvania stands pledged to keep the road in repair, by the
use of the means stipulated in the compact. And she has bound
herself, "that. no change, alteration, or amendment shall ever be
adopted that will in any wise defeat or affect the true intent and
meaning of the adt of 1831." In my judgment, that state has in no
.respect violated the compact by the act of 1836. If the mail-stage
can be included in the exemption by the terms, " wagon or carriage
laden with the property of the United States," still the half-toll on
such stage, when it contains passengers, is within the compact. But,
as has been shown, the mail-stage is not included in the exemption,
and, consequently, it was liable to be charged with full toll. The state,
therefore, instead of exceeding its powers under the compact, has
not yet exercised them to the extent which the act of 1831 authorizes.
Mr. Justice DANIEL.
With the profoundest respect for the opinions of my brethren, I
find myself constrained openly to differ from the decision'which, on
behalf of the majority of the court, has just been pronounced. This
case, although in form a contest between individuals, is in truth a
question between the government of the United States and the government of Pennsylvania. It i , to'.a certain extent, a question of
power between those two governments; and, indeed, so far as it is
represented :to be a question of compact, the very consideration on
which the interests of the federal government are urged involves implications, affecting mediately or directly what are held to be great, and
fundamental principles in our state and federal systems. It brings
necessarily into view the-operation and effect of-the compact insisted
upon as controlled and limited by the powers of both the contractmg parties. In order to show more plainly the bearing of the principles above mentioned upon the case before us, they will here be
more explicitly, though cursorily, referred to.
I hold, then, that neither Congress nor the federal government in
the exercise of all 'or any of its powers or attributes, possesses the
power to construct roads, nor any-other description of what have
been called internal improvements,, within the limits of the states.
That the territory and soil of the several states appertain to them by
title -paramount to the Constitution, and-cannot be taken, save with
the exceptions of those portions thereof-which might be ceded for
the seat. of the federal government and for sites permitted to be purchased for forts, arsenals, dock-yards, &c., &c. That the power of

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

181

Searight v. Stokes et al.

the federal government to acquire, and that of the states to cede to
that government portions of their territory, are by the Constitution
limited to the instances above adverted to, and that these powers
can neither be enlarded nor modified but in virtue of some new faculty to be imparted by amendments of the Constitution. I believe
that the Authority vested in Congress by the Constitution to establish
post-roads, confers no right to open new roads, but implies nothingbeyond a discretion in the government in the regulations it may
make for the Post-office Department for the selection amongst.-various routes, whilst they continue in existence, of thqse along which
it may deem it most judicioOs to have the mails transported. I do
not believe that this power given to Congress expresses or implies
any thing peculiar in relation to the means or modes of transporting'
the public mail, or refers to any supposed means or modes of transportation beyond the usual manner existing and practised in the
country, and certainly it cannot be understood to destroy or in any
wise to affect the proprietary rights belonging to individuals or companies vested in those roads. It guaranties t6 the government the
right to avail itself of the facilities offered by those roads for the
purposes of transportation, but imparts to it rio exclusive rights-it
puts the government upon the footing of others who would avail
themselves of the same facilities.
In accordance with the principles above stated, and which with
me are fundamental, I am unable to perceive ho-* the federal government could acquire any power over the Cumberland road by
making appropriations, or by expending money to any amount for
its construction or repair, though these appropriations and expenditures may have been made with the assent, and even with the solicitation of Pennsylvania. Neither the federal government separately,.
nor conjointly with the state of Pennsylvania, could have power to
repeal the Constitution. Arguments drawn from convenience or
inconvenience can have no force with me in questions of constitutional power; indeed, they.cannot be admitted at all, for if once admitted, they sweep away every barrier erected by the Constitution
against implied authority, and may cover every project which the
human mind may conceive. It matters not, then, what or how
g eat the advantage which the govirnment of the United States mawr
have proposed to itself or to -others in undertaking this road; such
purposes or objects could legitimate no acts .either expressly forbid-den or not plainly authorized. If the mere appropriation or disbursement of money can create rights in the government, they may
extend this principle indefinitely, and with the very worst tendencies-those tendencies would be the temptation to prodigality in the
government and a dangerous influence with respect to others.
In my view, then, the federal 'government could erect no tollgates nor make any exaction of tolls upon this road; nor could that
governmenit, in consideration of what it had done or contributed,

Q

182

SUPREME COURT.'
Searight v. Stokes et aL

constitutionally and legally demand of the state of Pennsylvania the
regulation of tolls either as to the imposition of particular rates or
the exemption of any species of transportation upon it. As a matter
of constitutional and leg-al power and authority, this appertained to
the state of Pennsylvadia exclusively. Independently, then, of any
stipulations with respect to them, vehiGles of the United States, or
.vehicles transporting the property of the United States, and that property itself, would, in passing over this road, be in the sanfe situation precisely with vehicles and property appertaining to all other
persons; they would be subject to the tolls regularly imposed
by law. There can be no doubt if the road were vested in a company or in a state, that either the-company or the state might stipulate"
for any rate of toll within- the maximum bf their power, ot" might
consent to an entire exemption; and such stipulation, if madefor a
valuable or a legal consideration, would be binding.
The United States may contract with companies or with .communities for the transportation of their m- ils, or any of their property
as well as with carriers of a different description; and consequently
could contract with the state of Pennsylvania. But *at is meant to
be insisted on here is, that the government could legally claim no
power to collect tolls, no exemption from tolls, noi any dinhk tion
of tolls in their favour, purely in consequence of their having expended money on the road, and without the recognition by Pennsylvania of
that expenditure. as a condition in any contract they might make With
that state. Without such recognition, the federal government must
occupy the same position -with other travellers or carrie'rs, and remain .subject to every regulation of her road laws which the state
could legally impose on others.
This brings us to an examinatibn of the statutes of Pennsylvania,
and to an inquiry into any stipulation which the state is said to have
made with the federal government, as declared in those statutes.
That examination will, however, be premised by some observations,
which seem to be called for on this occasion. These acts of the
Pennsylvania legislature have been compared with the acts of other
legislative bodies relative to this road, and it has been supposed that
the Pennsylvania laws should be interpreted in conjunction with those
IIher state laws, and farther, that all these separate state enactments
should be taken, together with the acts of Congress passed as to them
respectively, as forming one, or as parts of one entire compact with
the federal government. I cannot concur in such a view of this case.
On the contrary, I must consider each of the states that have legislated in respect to this road, as competent to -speak for herself; as
speaking in reference to her own interests and policy, and independently of-al others; and unshackled by the proceedings of any others.
By this rule of construction let us examine the statutes of Pennsylvania. The act of April 4th, 1831, Iwhich maybe called the compact law, as it contains all that Pennsylvania professed to umdertake,

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

183

Searight v. Stokes et al.

begins by stating the doubts which were entertained upon the
authority of the United States to erect toll-gates and to collect tolls
on the Cumberland road; doubts which, with the government as well
as with others,- seem to have ripened into certainties, inasmuch as,
notwithstanding its large expenditures upon this road, the government had never exacted tolls for travelling or for transportation upon
it. The statute goes on next to provide, that if the government of
the United States will make such farther expenditures as shall put

the road lying within the limits of 'Pennsylvania if complete repair,.
Pennsylvania will erect toll-gates and collect tolls upon the road, to
be applied to the repairs and preservation of it. -The same act invests the commissioners it appoints to superintend the road, with
power to increase or diminish the tolls to be levied; limiting the increase by the rates which the state had authorized upon an artificial
road that she had established Trom'the Susquehanna, opposite the
borough of Harrisburg, to Pittsburg. Then in the act of 1831 are
enumerated the subjects.of toll, and the rates prescribed as ta each
of those subjects. Amongst the former are mentioned chariots,
coaches, coachees, stages, wagons, phaetons, chaises. In the 3d pro-viso to the 2d section it is declared, "that no toll shall be received
or collEcted for the passage of any wagon or carriage laden with the
property of the United States, or any cannon or military stores belonging to the United States, or to-any of the states belonging to this
union."
On the 13th of June, 1836, was passed bythe legislature
of Pennsylvania, -"An act relating to the tolls on that part of the
Cumberland road which passes through Pennsylvania." The 1st
section of this act is in the following words: "1All wagons, carriages, or
olier modes of conveyance, passing upon that part of the Cumberland
road which passes through Penns1vania, carrying goods, cannon, or
military stores, belonging to the united States, or to any individual
state of the union, which are excepted from the payment of toll by
the second section of an act passed the fourth of April, .4nno Domini
eighteen hundred and thirty-one, shall extend only so far as to relieve
such wagons; carriages, and other modes of conveyance, from the
payment -oftoll to the proportional amount of such goods so carried,
belonding to the United States, or to any of the individual *statesof
the union; and that in all cases of wagons, carriages, stages, or other
modes of conveyance, carrying the Uned States mail,- with passengers or goods, such wagon, stage, or other mode of-conveyance, shall
pa h-toll upon such modes of conveyance."
Upon the construction to be given to the-1st and 2d sections of
the tatute of'1831, and to the 1st section of the statute of 1836, deponids the decision-of the case-before us. By th6defeidiaftin error
it is insisted that, by the -sections of the act of 1831 above -dited,
stages or stage-coaches, transporting the mall of the United States,
are wholly exempted by compact from the payment of tolls, althogh
the mails may constitute but a small portion of their lading; and

184

'-UPREME

COURT.

Searight v. Stokes et al.

those vehicles"maybe at the same time freighted for the exclusive'
profit of the inail contractors, with any number of passengers, or
with any quantity of baggage or goods, which can be transported in
them, consistently with the transportation of the mail; and that the
1st section of the act of 1836, which declares that "in all cases of
wagons, carriages, stages, or other modes of conveyance, carrying
the United States mail, with passengers or goods, such wagon, stage,
or other inode7 of conveyance, shall pay half-toll upon such mode
of conveyance," is a violation of the compact. Let us pause here,
and inquire what was the natural and probable purpose of the exemption contained in the act of 1831? Was that exemption designed as a priv lege or facility to the government, or as a"donation
for private and individual advantage ? Conmon sense would seem.
to dictate the reply, that the former only wvas intended by the law;
and even f the privilege or facility to the government could be best
secured by associating it with individual profit, certainly that privilege or facilitycould, on no principle of reason or faIess, be so
sunk, so lost sight bf, so entirely perverted, as to make it a mean

chiefly of imposition and gain on the part of individuals, and the
cause of positive and serious public detriment; and such must be
the result of th p ic c
f
e defendants in error, as
it would tend to impede the celerity of transportation, iind to destroy
the road itself, by withholding the natural

and proper fund for its
maintenance. Passing then from what is believed to be the natural
design ofthese enactments, let their terms and language be considered.
By those of the 2d section of th law of 1831, every stage or wagon
is made expressly liable to toll, without regard to the subjects it
might transport, and without regard to the ownership of the vehicle
itself. The terms of the law are universal; they comprehend all
stages and all wagons; they would necessarily, therefore, embrace
stages and wagons ofe thee it Stasorthe like vehicles of oers
carryiag the property of the United States or of private persons. If,
then, either the vehicles of the 'United States, or of others'carrying
the property of

the United States, have been withdrawn from the
operation of the act of 1831, this can have been done only by force
of the 3d pr.oviso of the 2d section of that act. The proviso referred
to declares that no to shll "be
, collected for the passageof any
ivagon or carriage laden with the prope
ofor
the Unvted States" &c.,
&c.

Can tis prov¢iso be understood isexempting stages, whether
belonging
to the government or to individuals, which were intended
purposely to carry the MAIL? It is not deemed necessary, in interpreting tis prosof,to discuss the question, 'hether the United
States have a property in mails which they carsbr. It maybe adnitted that the United States and all their contractors have in the mails
tha property which vests by law in all common carriers; it may be
admitted that the United States have an interest in the mails even
beyond this. These admissions do not vary the real inquiry here,

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

185

Searight v. Stokes et al.

which is, whether by this proviso the mails of the United States, or
the carriages transporting them, were ,intended to be exempted from
tolls? This law, like every other instrument, should be interpreted
according to the common and received acceptation of its words; and
artificial or technical significations of words or phrases should not
be resorted to, except when unavoidable, to give a sensible meaning
to the instrument interpreted; or when they may be considered as
coming obviously within the understanding and contemplation of the'
parties. According to this rule of interpretation, what would be
commonly understood by "the property of the United States," or by
the phrase "wagons and carriages laden with the property of the
United States?" Would common intendment apply those terms to
the mail of the United States, or to vehicles carrying that mail? The
term "1mail" is perhaps universally comprehended as being that over
which the government has the management for the purposes of conveyance and distribution; and it would strike the common understanding as something singular, to be told that the money or letters
belonging to the citizen, and for the transportation of which he pays,,
was not his property, but was the property of the United States. The
term "1mail," then, having a meaning clearly defined and universally
understood, it is conclusive to my mind, that in a provision designed
to exempt that mail, or the vehicle for its transportation, the general
and equivocal term "property" would not have been selected, but
the terms "mail," and "stages carrying the mail"-terms familiar to
all-would have been expressly introduced.
Farther illustration of the language and objects of the legislature
of Pennsylvania may be derived from the circumstance, that, in the

law of 1831, they couple the phrase "1property of the United States"
.toith "property of the states." The same language is used inreference
to oth
thy ae both comprised- in the same sentence; the same

exemption is extended to both. N6w the states have no mails to be
transported. It then can by no means follow, either by necessary or
even plausible interpretation, that by "property of the United States?'
was meant the "mails of the United States," any more than by "property of the states" was meant the "mails" of those states; on the
contrary, it seems far more reasonable that the legislature designed
to make no distinction with regard to either, but intended that the
term "property" should have the same signification in reference both
to the state and federal governme.nts.
Intheacceptation of the term "property," insisted on for the defendants in error, the mails committed to the contractor are the property
of that contractor also. Yet it would hardly have been contended
that in a provision for exemliting the "property" of a mail contractor
from tolls, either a vehicle belonging to the United States, and in the
use of such a contractor, or the mail which he carried in it, would
be so considered as his property as to bring them within that exemption; yet such is the conclusion to which the interpretation contended
VOL. IH.-24
Q2

186

SUPREME COURT.
Searight v. Stokes at a].

for by the defendants would inevitably lead. That construction I
deem to be forced and artificial, and not the legitimate interpretatiqneof the statute, especially when I consider that there are various
other subjects of property belonging to the United States, 'and belo *ng to them absolutely and exclusively, which from their variety
.co ld not well be specifically enumerated, and which, at some petiod or other, it might become convenient to the government and beneficial to the country to transport upon this road. But if, by any
interpretation, the words "wagon or carriage laden with the proper.ty of the United States," can be made to embrace stages carrying
the mail, and employed purposely for that service, they surely canAot, by the most forced- construction, be made to embrace stages
laden Nyith every thing else, by comparison, except the mail of the
United States, and in which the mail was a mere pretext for the
-transportation of passengers and merchandise, or property of-every
description and to any amount, free of toll. - They must at all, events
be laden with the mail. The term laden cannot be taken here as a
mere expletive, nor should it be wrested from its natural import-be
made identical in signification with the terms -" carrying" or "transporting." Such a departure would again be a violation of common
intendment, and should not be resortedto; and the abuses just shown,
which such a departure would let in and protect, furnish another and
most cogent reason. -whythe common acceptation of the phrase, "property 6ft-the United States," should be adhered to. Fairncss and
equality with respect to all carriers and travellers upon this road, and
justice*to the state which has undertaken to keep it in repair fiom the
tolls collectable upon it, require this adherence.
If the interpretation here given of the act of 1831 be correct, ihen
admitting that act to be a compact between Pennsylvania and the
United States, the former has; by the 1st section of the act of 1836,
infracted no stipulation in that compact. Pennsylvania' never did,
accoihing to my understanding of her law of 1831, agree to the exemption from tolls for stageswagons, or vehicles of any aind, intended for carrying the mails of the United States. These stood
upon the like footing with other carriages. If this be true, then by
the act of 1836, in which she has subjected to half-tolls only, stages,
wagons, &c., carrying the mails, and at the same time transporting
passengers or goods, so far from violating her compact; or inflicting
a wrong upon the government or upon mail contractors, that state has
extended to. them a privilege and an advantage which, u1nder the 3d
proviso of the act of 1831, they did not possess. My opinion is,
that "the plaintiff in the court below had an undoubted right'of
recovery.

