426'

SUPREME COURT.
Norton's Assignee.Y. Boyd et al.

judgments. In several cases formerly adjudged in this court, the
same point was argued, and expressly overruled. It was solemnly
held, that a final judgment of this court was conclusive upon the
parties, and could not be re-examined." - In Browder v. McArthur,
7 Wheat. 58, counsel applied for a re-hearing; the court refused it,
saying a subsequent appeal brought up only the proceedings subsequent to the mandate, and did not authorize an inquiry into the merits of the original decree. The same-is said with equal positiveness
in the case of the Santa Mria, 10 Wheat. 442. To these cases we
add an. extract. from the opinion of the court, given by the late Mr.
Justice Baldwin, in Ex parte Sibbald, 12 Peters, 492. That case
called for the most careful consideration of the court. "Before we
proceed to consider the matter presented -by these petitions, we
think it proper to state our settled opinion of the course which
is prescribed by the law for this court to take, after its final action
upon a case, brought within its appellate jurisdiction, as well as that
which the court, whose final decree or judgment has been thus
verified, ought to take. Appellate power is exercised over the
proceedings of inferior courts, not on those of the appellate court.
'The Supreme Court has no power to review its decisions, whether
in a case at law or in equity. A final decree in chancery is as
conclusive as a judgment at law. 1 Wheat. 355; 6 'Wheat. 113,
116. Both are concluiive of the rights of the parties-thereby adjudicated."
These cases are decisive of the motion made in this case, and as
the decree now appealed from carries into execution the mandate
issued by this court upon the first appeal, we direct it to be
affirmed.

RicHAnD NuGENT, AssIGNEE OF ELIZABETH NORTON,
PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. GEOROE W. BOYD,, IsA.c
ABNER PHELPS, DEFENDANTS.

IN, BAxExuPrc,
T. PRESTON, AND

The principles established in the case of Ex parte the City Bank of New Orleans in the matter of Christy, assignee of Walden, renewed and confirmed.
But this court does not decide, whether or not the jurisdiction of the District
Court over all the property of a bankrupt, mortgaged or otherwise, is exclusive, so as to take away from the state courts in such cases.

Tmns case came up by appeal from the Circuit Court of The United
States for East Louisiana, sitting as a court of equity.
The controversy-was between the bankrupt's assignee, on one
side, and a mortgage creditor and purchasers at the sae under state
process of the mortgaged premises, on the other. The points to be

JANUARY TERM, 1845..

427

Norton's Assignee v. Boyd-et al.

decided grew out of the bankrupt law, and especially outof the
saving in favour of state liens in the 2d. section, and the jurisdiction
granted to the District and Circuit Courts of the United States in
cases of bankruptcy by the 6th and 8th. - The validity of certain
rules established by the District Court of Louisiana, sitting in bankruptcy, was questioned, and the mortgage creditor, not having proved
under the commission, claimed exemption from those rules, and asserted the right to pursue his prior lien in the state court.
The complainant's bill stated in substance, that Elizabeth Norton
filed her petition to be declared-a bankrupt, on thb 9th May, 1842.
On the 1st June, it was decreed accordingly,- and Richard Nugent
appointed amsignee..
At the time, and long before the date of the petition, George W.
Boyd, one of the defendants, was the,holder of notes, secured by
mor.gage duly recorded according to the laws of Louisiana, for the
sumof $9000, on which judgment had been rendered, order of
seizure and sale granted, and execution issued and been levied, all
before the date of the bankrupt's petition. The levy took place on
the 16th of February, 1842. The sale was the only proceeding after
the date of the decree of bankruptcy; that decree being dated the
1st, and the sale taling place on the 4th of June, 1842.
The 1ill admitted that all the forms and notices, &c., required by
the laws of Louisiaia for the sale of -mortgaged premises under execution, were observed; but set up the petition and decree of bankruptcy, made before the sale, and alleged, thatbefore the property
was sold the assignee gave written notice of the decree, and of his
appointment as assgnee under it to the sheriff, the mortgag6 creditor, Boyd, and to Preston and Phelps, whb afterwards became the
purchasers of the mortgaged premises at sheriff's sale, cautioning
them respectively, and claiming at the same time the right to stay
the sale, and take the property into his own hands for sale and distribution under the rules of the bankrupt court. . Copies of the proceedings in bankrutcy and of the-rules of the bankrupt court were
made exhibits to the bill. - These general irders of the District Court
of the United States for the district of Louisiana, sitting in bankrupty, and purporting to be made in pursuance of the authority
thereof,
delegatedlprovided,
to it bythe.Bankrupt
especially
theserved
6th section
in substance, Act,
that and
notice
should be
on
all
creditors of the bankrupt wh bad any special mrtgage,
lien, or
privilege.. The assignee 'as authoiized to take a rule
on the mortgage creditor to show cause why the mortgaged
premises
not be sold by the assignee; and the court would thereupon should
pass an
order of sale, which order should ipso facto annul
the
mortgages,.
to
liens,
the &e.,
recorder
existing
on the property
of mortgages,
sold, be
andreuired
upon its presentation
he should
to

cancel the
inscriptin of all such mortgages,
the liens, privileges &c., should liens, &e., on his records; and
attach to the proceeds in the hands

428

SUPREME COURT.
Nbrton's Assignee v. Boyd et a].

of the assignee; The mortgage creditor was 6ntitled, under certain
reservations, to prescribe the terms of sale, and at such sale might
become the purchaser, but was required to pay the expenses and
commissions on the sale,.and the surplus, if any, over and above
the amount of his mortgagd.; but these privileges were allowed only
on the condition of his filing the proof of his debt in the registry of
the. court.
The complainant alleged, that, by the act of Congress the rules
afo-resaid made in pursuance thereof, and the proceedings thereunder
in the case of the bankrupt, the sale should have been stayed, and
the said George W. Boyd having been notified and cited to appear
and contest the proceedings in bahkruptcy, all the acts done under
colour of the state process, aftdr the date of the petition, were irregular and void; that.Preston and Phelps having also been notified
and cautioned, they derived no title from the sheriff's sale, such
sale being invalid.
The bill prayed "thatthe sheriff's sale might be set aside, the title
of Preston.and Phelps declared null; that George W. Boyd be compelled to come into tl"e District Court, sitting in bankruptcy, and
conform himself in all "hings to the rules of said court in such cases,
and for other and-geneml relief.
To this bill there was a demurrer, which, admitting all the facts,
insisted, in point of law,-1.- That the petition, decree, appointment of the assignee, &c.,
did not prevent the mortgage creditor from enforcing his ied under
the process of the state court.
2. That the District Court had no right to pass the rules insisted
on.3: That
the mortgage creditor was not bound
by law to submit
hii claims to the. istrict Court, sitting in bankruptcy, but. might
elect not to prove his debt, and still pursue his -lien and remedy
under the law.
4. That the title obtained at the sheriff's sale was, according to
the facts set forth by the complainant, a good title for the purchasers
against the assignee.
On the hearing of the argument on the bill and demurrer, the'Circuit Court sustained the demurrer, and ordered the bill of the complainant to be dismissed.
From this decree the complainant appealed.
The cause was submitted, upon printed arguments, by Bichard
.Mtgent, for the appellant, and Wilde and Henderson, for the appellees.
The argument-for the appellant was as follows:It havingbeen agreed by all parties to submit this case in printed
briefs, so as to expedite its decision, end the final proceedings mithe
bankrupt court, the appellant respectfully represents, that the 'facts

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

429

Norton's Assignee v. Boyd et al.-

set forth by the bill being admitted by the demurrer, and substantiall& set forth in the statement of the appellees, it is unnecessary
here to repeat them. The contest is one -entirely of law; and as
the best and most conclusive argument he can present, the appel-lent annexes hereto certain decisions heretofore made on the points
in controversy in similar cases, by the Supreme Court of Louisiana,
and the Circuit Court of the United States for the Louisiana district. These decisions were all rendered after elaborate argument,
on due deliberation, and disclose so fully the reasons on Which they
are founded, that it cannot be requisite for the appellant to do more
than state the principles established by them. These courts have
considered, that, to .prevent confusion, and secure uniformity of
action and decision, it is indispensable that all the claims of all the
creditors, without distinction, be brought before the bankrupt court,
and that all the property to which the bankrupt may have any claim
shall be administered, sold, and distributed, under the authority of
that court,'no matter what liens exist upon it. These liens themselves cannot, indeed, .be disputed or impaired, and against that the
rules of the bankrupt court have made due provision; but they cannot be enforced under state laws and process, for that must ineVitably disturb the uniform and harmonious administration of the
bankrupt act.
Hence it has been held, that, from the moment of-filing the petition, the bankrupt became -incompeteni to stand in judgment in the
state courts, and that the assignee in bankruptcy has the right to
cause .the state process to be stayed, to take the property into his
own possession, and to sell it free from the mortgage, leaving to the
mortgagee the right to claim the proceeds in the court of bankruptcy,
under such rules as that tourt may prescribe. Such has been the
practice of the bankrupt cburt in Louisiana, and the rules annexed
as an exhibit to the bill were adopted by the District Court of the
United States, in analogy to, or conforming with them. The power
to prescribe such rules is given by the 6th sedtion of the Bankrupt
Act, and they contain nothing repugnant to the proviso in the 2d
section, since the state liens are saved.
There is also- a distinction to be noted between the legal effect Qf
a mortgage in the state of Louisiana, and the common law mortgage.
Under the latter, the legal title passes to the mortgaee. According
to that system, therefore, the assignee does not acqure the legal title
by the assignment, and mortgaged property consequeiitly is not sub-'
ect to administration and sale, as part of the baikrujpt's effects.
he mortgage of Louisiana is thus defined:" "Mortgage is a right
granted to the creditor over the property of his debtor, for the sechrity of his debt, and gives him the power of having the propert.y
seized and sold in default of payment." Civil Code of Louisiana ,
art. 3245.
Hence the legal estate in, and possession of, the mortgaged pre-

430

SUPREME COURT.
Norton's Assignee v. Boyd et al.

raises" in Louisiana, remains in the mortgagor, and passes to his
assignee. Being seized of the legal estate and in possession, it is
for him to sell. In other states, the legal title passing to the mortgagee does iiot rest in The assignee of the bankrupt mortgagor, and
consequently the decisions in other states are not applicabld here.
The argument for the appellees was the following:
The decisions of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, and the Circuit Court of the United States, for the Lbuisjana district,. as -well
as the rules in cases of banliruptcy, adopted by the District Court,
all of which are relied upon by the complainant, proceed upon the
mistaken assumption of an analogy between the cessio bonorum or
concurso de acreadoresof the Loifisiana law, and the Bankrupt Act
of the United States, and a supposed obligation or duthority to
.model the one upon the other. There is -no such analogy and no
such authority.
The Louisiana concurso requires all the creditors of the' bankrupt
to come in, grants an immediate cessation .of all actions -of every
des cription agaiist him, and vests in the syndic all his property
witho t distinction, with power to sell, candelling all mortgages and
liens, and conveying-an absolute and clear title to the purchaser.
The rights of the several 6reditors are settled contradictorily, and
the liens on the property sold, which have been cancelled'by order
of the syndic, 'attach upon the proceeds of the property in his hands.
Elwes v. Estewan, 1 Marl. 193; Code -of1824, art. 21712; Greiner
Lou. Dig. tit. Insolvency, 237 ; and the authorities quoted in Fisher
v.'Vose, B Robinson, L. R. 475.
In the bankrupt law there is nothin of all this: The mortgage
creditor is not compellable td prove his debt under the bankruptcy.
He may rely upron his lien, and assert and prosecute it under the.
state law and process. There is no authority to stay his proceedings,
unless -hismortgage is fraudulent or void, or alleged to be paid offT,
'none of which is pretendled here.
, If he elects to come into the bankrupt court and prove his debt,
he thereby relinquishes his mortgage or-other lien, and stands upon
the same footing as an ordinary creditor. There is no power given
by the Bankrupt Act to the court, or to the assignee- to discriminate
in the distribution of the proceeds of property sold 'by the assignee,
between creditors holding liens on it and those holding none. The
only authority the assignee has, is to redeem the mortgage under the
-order and directiolf of the court, (sect. If.) If he does not choose
to redeem, he has no power to enjoi! the proceedings of the mortgage creditor. That would be to impair the lien, contrary to the
proviso of the 2d section.
:To prevent or obstruct the recovery bf debts, 'has been held impairing the obligation of contracts. To prevent or obstruct. the
assertion of a lien, and take away the existing remedy upon it, must
impair the lien.

JANUARY TERM, 1845.
Norton's Assignee v. Boyd et a].

431
-

All the decisions of this court upon the former subject dre authorities for us.
The dissenting opinions of Judge Bullard, in the state 'of Louisiana, against the sheriff of the first judicial district, and J. D. Roasenda, or a prohibition, and in the case of F. B. Conrad, assignee
of Thomas Banks, -for a mandamus, which are before your honours
in this case, outweigh, as -we humbly dontend, in soundness and
acuteness, of argument, the contrary decisions of his brethren.Scevola assentior.
The (wide range of judicial legislation exercised by the District
Court, in providing that "the order of sale shall, ipso facto, annul
the mortgages, liens, &c., existing on the property sold," and the
vast addition to, and alteration in, the bankrupt law, thus made,
cannot" receive the sanction of this court. What part of the act
authorizes the District Court to attach liens' on the. proceeds of
property sol ,-to distribute such proceeds otherwise than rateably,
without discrimination, or to force into its forum a mortgage creditor
-who chboses to rely l.poi his- ien,-and not to prove his debt ?
Whence does'thaf court derive its -power to order a state register
of mortgages to cancel the inscription of such mortgages on hisrecords? If he refuses, how is such order to be "enforce? If enforced, what is its effect? The Supreme Court of Louisiana, indeed,.
courteously ]ends its aid to enforce the decrees of the District Court
sitting in bankruptcy, but will.the courts of other states do so ?, If
not, is the District Court of the United States armed with authority
to enfoce its own mandate against a state officer, in regaid to his.
official duty under the laws of the state, as to the registration and
cancellation .of mortgages? Can such a pretension- be maintained
in-all the states? And how is uniformity in the administration of,
the bankrupt law to be secured, by the adoption of rules going far
beyond its text, and most certainly incapable of execution in many
of the states ?
This branch of the subject assbmes a tenfold importance when the
court considers that these rules and 'orders, and the decrees passed.
under them, constitute a part of the extraordinary bankr-upt jurisdiction granted to the District Court alone, under the 6th sedctioii.
Such decrees, this court had decided, are without appeal. Nelson
v. Carland, 1 Howard.
While concurrent jurisdiction, therefore, is granted by the 8th'
section to the Circuit and District Courts, of all suits at law and in
equity;-which may be brought by an assignee against any one claim?
mig an adverse interest; or by such person against the assignee, and
the suit so brought may be carried, by appeal, to this tr.bunal' the
hasty and inconsiderate orders 6f the District Court in bankruptcy,
though they may work irreparable injury, are not subject to any
suptrvision.
On the score of authority, it cannot be expected we should do

432 '

SUPREME COURT.
Norton's Assignee v. Boyd et a].

more.thari produce the decisions of circuit or district judges. These
questions -have not yet been adjudicated in this court.
We rely on the following cases, decided by judges of this court
on their circuits or by district judges, respectable for learning and
ability.,
The decision of Mr. Justice Baldwin in the matter of Kerlin, a
bankrupt, reported in the United States Gazette, of Philadelphia, of
26th October, 1843.
The decision of Mr. Justice Story in the case of Mitchel, assignee
of Roper, v. Winslow and others, in the Circuit Court of Maine,
reported in the Law Reporter of Boston, for December, 1843, pp.
347'and 360.
Mr. Justice McLean's decision in the case of N. C. McLean, assignee--in bankruptcy, v. The Lafayette Bank, J; S. Buckingham
aijd others; to be found in the Western Law Journal for October,
1843, p. 15.
Mr. Jusfice McLean's decision in the case 9f N. C. McLean, assignee, v. James F. Meline. Western Law Journal for November,
1843, p. 51:
*

Mr. Justice Story's decision in the case of Mug
e, 5Law
Rep. 357. In: Ex parte Cooke, 5 Law Rep. 444; Ex parte Newhall , 5 LaW R. 308. In T)utton v. Fredman, 5 Law R. 452.
Mr. Justice Thompson's 'decision in Haughton v. Eustis, 5 Law
R_ 506.
Judge Prentiss's (of Vermont) 'opinion in Ex parte Spear, 5 Law
R. 399 '. and Ex parte Comstock, 5 Law R. 165.
Judge Conkling's (of New York) opinion in Ex parte Allen,
5 Law R. 368.
Judge Monroe's (of Kentucky) opinion in Niles's Register, 5th
November, 1842; and those of Irwin, Randall, and Gilchrist, Ibid.
'These cases, it is humbly submitted, establish the doctrine for
which the defendants contend; namely that the state- lien in this
case was properly and rightfully enforced under the state law and
process; that the rules of the District Court of Louisiana relied
upon are Yoid and-witbout force, exceeding the jurisdiction of that
court, and interpolating new principles into the Bankrupt Act; that
the title acquired by Preston aid Phelps, at sheriff's sale, under
execution f6finded upon the mortgdge, is good, valid against the
assignee; -and that the demurrer *was properly sustained, and the
bill rightfully dismissed.
*
"Proceedings in bankruptcy;'? as per section 6, are of'exclusive
cognisance in the District Courts of the United States.
These proceedings are but, acts of administration upon property
and accounts, closely resembling the administration of. decedents'
•esiates in the courts of probate. Proceedings in bankruptcy by
virtue of the provisions of- this section, are not "suits at law.andequity," which may be brought by and against the assignee, touch-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

433

Norton's Assignee v.Boyd et al.

ing property or rights of property claimed to have belonged to the
bankrupt, as per section 8. To entertain such suits, the Circuit
and District Courts of the United States have "concurrent jurisdiction."
And of suits in court pending by and against a party who -becomes bankrupt, such pending controversies do not abate by operation of the law upon the party's being declared bankrupt.
The jurisdiction of the state courts, as to such controversies, is
not interfered with by the act of bankruptcy. The assignee becomes vested with the precise rights and condition of the bankrupt
in respect to his property and controversies, which were possessed
and sustained by the bankrupt on the day of his being "decreed"
a bankrupt. And the bankrupt's suits pending are to be "prosecuted and defended (by the. assignee) in the same way, and with
the same effect, as they might have been by such bankrupt." Section 3.
In this case, the judgment of Boyd against the mortgagor, the
order of seizure and sale, and the levy of execution, were all before
the party filed his petition in bankruptcy.
Now, by the express provision of section 3, the assignee's rights
and duties in respect to this state proceeding upon the mortgage,
(irrespective of its being a question of-mortgage,) were neither more
nor less than to present himself in the court where the case was progressing to final execution, and there make any defence Norton, the
bankrupt, might have done. But it wholly subverts the provision
of section 3, to indulge the assignee in disregarding such pending
controversies, and. then permit him to assume the attitude of plaintiff in the same case, commencing de novo in the District Court of
the United'States, and there to discard as coram nonjudice all that
had been previously adjudged in the state court.
But besides that this was a case pending in a state court where
the assignee should have made defence, as per section 3, as a questiQn of mortgage, it has more distinction and immunity in the consideration of the Bankrupt Law. And ii this aspect the'District
Court of the United States proceeding in bankruptcy had no jurisdiction of it, (unless the mortkagor had chosen to file his claim,)
save and except to administer and sell the equity of redemptibn, or
to redeem the mortgage, as per section 11.
There is no legitimate pretence this bill in chancery is a proceeding in bankruptcy. The district Court has no equity jurisdiction in
this respect, but in virtue of section 8, and which confers it eually
on the Circuit Court. And yet the bill seeks an administration in
bankruptcy of this mortgaged property coercively against the mortgagor, within rules prescribed under the provisions of section 6.
If this be so attainable, then the Circuit Court too, which has no
original jurisdiction in bankruptcy, may nevertheless obtain it by
bill in equity.
VOL. I1.-55
20

434

SUPREME COURT,
-Norton's Assignee v. Boya et a].

But all the pretensions of this bill are conceived to be unparalleled in the conflicting and imperious results it proposes.
Section 2, of the Bankrupt Act, is regarde.d as express authority
to the assignee and the court in bankruptcy to impair, annul, and
destroy this iortage.. And by the rule of court seizing upon the
mortgage for administration in bankruptcy, to maintain a semblance
of respect for the mandates of section 2, the proisions of section 5
.are deliberately violated, -which forbids any "priority or,preference"
to be awarded among private creditors. It assumes the right to
treat as a nullity an ordinary state adjudication of a mortgage interest, fully rendered previous to'any jurisdiction hating attached to
the bankrupt court. In truth, the state adjudication is adjudged of
as an ex post facto usurpation. The jurisdiction'was well enough
in the state court inceptively, and throughout its progress to the
rendition Qf judgment. But while the execution of the state court
was being consummated, the debtor flied his petition. And this, the
bill assumes, ipiofacto, reversed the judgment' of the state court or
avoided. it as a nullity.
In view of a fair interpretation of the Bankrupt Act, and of the
disastrous considerations presented by the bill in this case, we assure
ourselves with the belief, that results so unjust, so inharmoniously
absurd, will hot be sustained in the reversal of tis -decree.
The lien of a judgment and execution attaches as to real estate
upon the rendition of the judgment, as to personal property upon
the seizure or levy of the executiori. Code of Practice, art. 722,
723; Civil Code, art. 3289-, 3290, 3291, 3292; Dufly v. Townsend, 9 Mart. R. 585; Bradbury and Foster v. Morgan, 2 L. R.
479.
Here the levy or seizure was before the date of the petition in
bankruptcy, and the lien of the judgment had attached even if the
property levied on had been personl, much more when it was real.
The order of seizure under a mortgage is by the law of Louisiana a judgment from which appeal lies to the Supreme Court, and
on which, upon a proper case shown, injunction may issue. Gurlie
v. Coquet, 3 N. S. 498; McDonough v. Zacharie, 3 L. R. 316;
Code of Practice,, tit. Injunction, art. 296, 309; Wells v. Hunter,
6 N. S.311; Crane v.Phillips, 7 N. S. 276; 8 N. S.683; 3 N.
S.480; 4 N. S.499.
Mr; Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
It appears in this case, that, in January, 1844, a bill was filed in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana, sitting in chancery, by Richard Nugent, assignee of the estate
of Elizabeth Norton in bankruptcy, stating, that the said Elizabeth
Norton, on the 9th day of May, 1842, filed her petition in the District Court of the Uniited States to be declared a bankrupt, and thAt
she was accordingly decreed to be such about the 1st of June, in

JANUARY

TERM, 1845.

435

Norton's Assignee v. Boyd et al.

the same year; that she returned in her schedule two lots of ground
in the city of La Fayette, particularly described in the- bill; and
that George William Boyd was, among others, returned as a creditor
for the sum of $9000, and that notice was served on him of the
proceedings in bankruptcy. The bill further states, that prior to
and-at the time of the petition in bankruptcy the two 'lots above.
mentioned were affected by a special mortgage.-to the said Boyd,.
which was valid by the laws of Louisiana,.for the 'sum of $9000
and upwards; that prior to. the bankruptcy of Elizabeth Norton)
that is to say, about the 11th of November*, 1841, Boyd commenced
suit upon his said mortgage in the proper state court of Louisiana,.
and obtained judgment, with the privileges of a mortgage) and issued execution thereon, which was levieff upon the said property
about the 16th of-February, 1842; and on-or about the 4th'of j.une
following the property was regularly sold by the iheriff under 'the
execution to Isaac T. Preston .and Abner Phelps, who took possession of the said two lots and continue to hold them, claiming as
owners. The bill further states, that the complainant, having re-'
eeived notice of the levy and intended sale.. under the execution,
duly notified the said Boyd; Preston, Phelps, and the sheriff in writing, before the sale, Df his appointment as assignee as-aforesaid, and
cautioned them, not to proceed with the sale; but that the parties,
continuing and intending to.defeat'the just rights of the complainant,
proceeded to sell, and -placed the purchasers above mentioned in
possession of the property in question.. The complainant refers to
and exhibits with his bill certain rules adopted by the District Court
of the United'States for the disposition of real-estate surrendered by
bankruit&, and encumbered by mortgages ;-and 'charges, that bk
virtue of the Bankrupt Act all the proceedings in the state court.
the pefitiox of the
stayed, from the moment
ought-to have been and
that the subsequent proceedings were irrebankupt was filed;
gular, and conferred no title on the purchasers;i and that the cornplainant was entitled to take the property from. the hands of the
sheriff, and to administer and "sell the same under the direction of
the District Court by virtue of the act of Congress and the rules of
court above meitioneeb The bill thh prays process against Boyd,
Preston, and Phelps, and that the proceedings under the execution
subsequent to the petition in bankruptcy should be declared' irregube
fro~rmthe
lar;
thattothe
Phelps'be
and should
Prestonsheriff
andPhelps
the said
invalid,and
null of
andPreston
be title
decreed
ordered to restore the "said lots to the possesion of th complainant;
to be administered and sold by him in conformity with the ordersof the District Court of the United States, and in pursuance of the
rules before referred to ; and that Boyd should be directed to come
into theDistrict Court, and conform hself to the orders of the
court and the rules aforesaid.
The defendants appeared, and demurred to the bill; and upon

436

'SUPREME COURT.
Norton's Assignee v. Boyd et al.

r,
the following decree was passed by
final hearing on te
: demurrerthe CircuitCourt
"1This is a bill in equity, presented by an. assignee in bankruptcy,
to set aside a certain sale, made under a writ of seizure and sale
fron the District Cqurt of Louisiana, upon the ground that the District Court of the United States was, by the bankrupt law passed by
Congress. on the 19th of August, 1841, vested with exclusive jurisdiction over all matters appertaining to the settlement of -the affairs
of the bankrupt; and that, consequently, the sale made by the District Court of Louisiand has transferired no legal title to the property.
The bill further claims the property sold as a part of the property
of the bankrupt to be sold or otherwise disposed of under the orders
of the District Court of the United States. It appears that the property in question consists of real estate, and that the same was sold
to satisfy a special mortgae held by the creditor who obtained the
-order of seizure and sale from the state tribunal.
"I have, after an attentive consideration of the various allegations
in the bill, ordered the same to be dismissed, and shall now proceed
to state very briefly the grounds upon which I acted. In the first
place, I do not consider that there is any equity in the bill; the property was specially mortgaged to satisfy the claim of the creditor
who demanded the sale; and it does not appear that in the assertion
of his right he has in any manner interfered with the'rights of the
other creditors of the bankrupt. It does not appear that any doubt
existed as to the validity of the m6rtgag6, or that the crieditor, has
obtained any right or any advantage over the other creditors which
the District Court, sitting in bankruptcy, would not have been
bound to award him under the-express provisions of the bankrupt
-law. It is quite clear that the liens and mortgages which- are valid
under the state law must be. protected by the District Court of the
United States, sitting in bankruptcy, and it will not be pretended
that the creditor at whose instance the property in question was
sold would not have been entitled, under any and all circumstances,
to the proceeds of that property to sitisfy the amount alleged to be
due him. -What benefit would then accrue to the general creditors
of the bankrupt by the interference of this court in a matter which
seems to have been fairlv and finally adjudicated? While I am
well satisfied that no good would arise from such an interference, I
am equally well satisfied that great-injustice would be done both to
the mortgage creditor and to the estate of the bankrupt, by subjecting both unnecessarily to additional costs and expenses.
"I agree fully in: the opinion, that upon the ground of expediency
the jurisdiction, of the District Court of the United States over all
the property of the bankrupt, mortgaged or.otherwise, should be exclusive; but I do not understand the.bankrupt law to render it so.
Where a creditor, by virtue of a special mortgge, elects to foreclose
that mortgage before a state tribunal, the federal court is not called

JANUARY TERM, 184 .

487

Norton's Assignee v. Froyd et aL

upon to interpose, except in cases where from the nature of the case
wrong or injustice may be done to other creditors in interest, or
where the mortgage itself may be contested.
1I wish it, however, to be distinctly'understood, that I am fully
of opinion that the District Court of the United States is vested with
jurisdiction over "mortgaged property belonging to the bankrupt,
and that when a proper case is shown, it has power to foreclose a
mortgage, and to do all other acts necessary to bring about a final
distribution and settlement of the bankrupt estate. fam also of the
opinion, that in a case where a creditor calls in question the validity
of a mortgage held by another creditor, it is the duty of the said
court to-exercise jurisdiction over the questions involved, and, if
necessary, to declare the mortgage null .and void.
"In the case before me no such question is involved, an~d I.see
no reasons why the equity'powers of this court should be exercised
to do that which cannot change the rights pf the parties interested,
.but which would haye the effect of doing a positive injustice to the
mortgage creditor, by subjecting, his property to useless costs and
expenses.
"It is, therefore, ordered that the complainant's bill be dismissed."
We have inserted the whole of this decree, because we think the
court were not only rigrht in dismissing the bill, but, with a single
exception, we concur also in the principles and reasoniiig on which
the learned judge founded his decision. The exception t6 which
we allude is that part of the decree in which he expresses his opinion,
that upon the ground of- expediency the jurisdiction of the District
Court of the United States over all the propetty of the bankrupt,
mortgaged or otherwise, should lie exclusive, so as to take away
from the state courts any jurisdiction in such cases.' U on that
subject it is not our province to decide, and we have no desire- to'
express 'an opinion upon 'it. But in every -other respect the decree
conforms to the opinion delivered by'this court, at the present term,
upon the motion*for a prohibition in the case Ex parte the City Bank
of New Orleans, in the matter of Win. Christy, assignee of Daniel
T. Walden, a bankrupt, v. The City Bank of New Orleans. In that
case the opinion of this court in relation to the jurisdiction of the
District Court iii matters of bankruptcy has been fully expressed,
and need not be repeated here; and according to the principles
therein stated the decree of the Circuit Court in this chse must-be
affirmed.
Mr. Justice CATROh .
.1 think the adjudication in this case is in conflict with that made
in the Circuit.Court at New Orleans in Christy against the City Bank;
and in support of which; a majority of my brethren saw proper to'
express their vie~vs at a' previous day'during this term, in the unsuccessful application of the bank
2o2 for a prohibition; but- that the

438

SUPREME COURT.
Norton's Assignee v. Boyd et al.

cases are alike-and one cannot be maintained, and the other overthrown.
In that ese the petition of the assignee set forth the entire legal
grounds, why the District Court should annul the judgments in the
state court, and prongunce the sale void.
1. That the property sold was given in by Walden, the bankrupt.
as part of his effects.
2. That .the bank had notice thereof, before the sale by the
-sheriff.
3. That the sale was void, being contrary to the Bankrupt Law,
which operated to sta all further proceeding so soon as Walden's
petition was filed, and was a bar to any further prosecution of the
suit until an assignee should be appointed. That the sale with notice was a fraud upon 'the act of Congress, and the other creditors
of Walden, b reason of the law, because the bank was endeavour"ingto obtain an'illegal preference.'
4. That at the sale the property was struck off in blocks, although
consistingjof dIfferent buildings, 'at two-thirds of its value: "All of
which acting dahd doings are lirohibited by law, aid render said
sale null and void,'
5."-Thrtthe sfe w inbther respects irregular, the legal formalities not having been observed.
6. That'the mortgage was void for usury, because in effecting the
loan. the bafik gave Walden bonds on the Second Municipality instead
of money, and they Wvere then at a discount *at from twenty to
twentyfive per cent.'
To these allegations the, bank answered
1'. By Plda'that the District Cdurt Was not by law empowered to
decide on' .e 'matters charged.
'2. Thai 'all 'the matters and things set forth had already been
decided by a court of competent jurisdiction-referring to the adjudications by name.
3. 'The ddfe'ndant answers; and avers, that the mortgage was legal ajd valid; and given upon a full'and adequate consideration.
4. That the order of sale was duly granted, anid the'writ thereon properly igsied: and that the property 'described in the petition was
lawfully seized, and after a compliance with all the legal formalities,
was sold, aid 'adjudicated to the defendants: hat the price 'was
fully paid by giving "a credit-nd. that the property is.held under
ani indefeasibld title.
5. AL the allegations in the. petition not admittea, are denied,
and a trisl demanded of them.
SThis answer was excepted t4 as containing no.legal grouinds of
defence'; t-he question was-adjourned,. unde'r the 6th section of theBajhItuptLaw, to the Ciruit Court to be thereheardund determin'd:.
It stood inthat cotirt as 6nbill and armWeri thd answer was taken
.of IcowIse ag, true in all its parts-the only., quesfion ~bimo, whether

JANUARY TERM, I84g.

439

Norton's Assignee v. Boyd et al.

any legal ground of defence was furnished by the plea,-supported
by-an answer, dehying the alleged unfairness of the sale-presenting
the same question in substance as did the case of Harpending v. The
Dutch Church, in 16 Peters. By setting the case down on plea and
answers, the proceedings in the supreme and inferior state courts
were ?dmitted of-necessity to have been properly and fairly conducted; and the sale legally and fairly made. This was the undoubted aspect of the case as presented to and decided by the Circuit Court. Its decree, in the form of instructions to the bankrupt
court, is, first-That the latter had full and ample powers to try all
the questions presented in the assignee's petition: 2dly.. That the
sale made under the seizure by order of the state court was void;.
and that the b/ankrupt court should- declare it so: 3d. That the
bankrupt court had full power to re-try the vilidity of the mortgage
and ascertain whether it was void for usury or otherwise :nd- this
on the ground exclusively that the proceedings in the state courts
were annulled by force of the bankrupt law, and the fact of-Walden
applying for its benefit.
T'aking the petition and answer together, and a case existerd in all
its fdatures like the present, on the title by execution; each being-a
fair and regular proceeding in the state court. One is suppressed
-and the other maintained. And on what ground does the district
judge assume to act contrary to the former adjudication? Because
it was equitable and for the best interests of the estate to be distributed, in his judgment. The obvious- nieaning of which- is, that
he had power to overthrow the title or not, at- his discretion; and
that such discretion was the law of the,case and the tenure of the
title, accdrding to the true intention of the Bankrupt Act. On this
assumption are the two cases attempted to be reconciled ;,and on no
other can they avoid direct conflict, even in appearance. In reality,
the one title is as good as the other. The tendency of such a doctrine is too threatening to titles to be silently acquiesced in. Did
Congress intend that the force and effect of-judgments and executions in -a state court, should depend -on the sole 'discretion of a
judge sitting in bankrupt.cy? Was it intended to discard the
axiom, that unrestrained discretion in those that -govern, is inconsistent with the rights of those that are governed, be they of property
or person? It is very difficult to suppose so; and as difficult to
accommodate the construction of the act to such a supposition. It
is declared, "that it shall not be construed to annul, destroy, or
impair, any liens or-mortgages, on -property real or personal, which
may be valid by-the laws of 'the states respectively."
-ere two liens are combined; one by. mortage, the other by ex,
ecution levied. In Christy v. The City Bank, as already stated, that
by mortgage was recognised as a right protected by the act, but to
be administered in the banlrpt court only; that by execlution was

440

SUPREME COURT.
Norton's Assignee

t,

Boyd et al.

pronounced void. This decision the court below was asked 1o follow out, in the case before us, and refused.
By the execution levied; the lien "was valid by the laws of the
state"-in the words of the saving clause; the remedy by seizure
created the right; to annul, or to stay the execution, impaired .a
right, excepted out of the act. Since the opinions were delivered
in the ex -parte application of the ,City Bank, we have in effect -so
held at the present term, in Waller v. Best.
In making exceptions in favour of liens created by judgment and
execution, Congress was governed by practical considerations. The
states usually were large, the bankrupt courts in many of them far
off from the creditors, the debts owing by the bankrupt- small in
amount'to a great extent; for these recoveries would be had in the
inferior courts and before magistrates; the property would be seized
by execution, and he the debtor be driven into bankruptcy; this
step might be taken secretly. The officer having possession of the
property had to dispose of it according to the commands of the
writ, and make return to the state tribunal; 4 return that the debtor
had- applied for the benefit of te- bankrupt law would not be a
legal return, as I have held, and always supposed; and that a'decree declaring the party a bankrupt, would.not alter the case; as iA
either, the lien would be not only impaired, but destroyed where the
levy alone gave it, as is the case in many instances. To drive. the
small creditor into the bankrupt court to establish his demand and
effectuate his lien, would often have been worth more in trouble and,
expense than the debt, and -in the mean time the property, being
abandoned by the officer, and not'taken possession of by the'assignee, would in many instfnces perish.- These facts were too palpable for Congress to overlook. To l5rotect such liens, I take it the
exception was'a compromise between the opponents and friends of
the bill; the one side suppofting rights secured by the state laws,
and the other seeking to adopt a different rule under the Cdnstitution of the United States, in regard to the relation of debtor and
creditor.
In many cases the bankrupt might owe debts in other states than
that where he would be declared bankrupt; then other difficulties
would arise on executions .being levied in the foreign jurisdiction,
to which the powers of the bankrupt court could not extend. In
all the cases enumerated the assignee had given to him the same
powers the bankrupt previously had, to sue and defend, and no
material' difficulty could arise (or has arisen) in adjusting the claimsin the state courts, to, which the assignee was bound to apply.
That a mortgage can be foreclosed in the bankrupt court, and the
lien given by it be preserved -there, I have never doubted, if the
jurisdiction of a state court had not attached, and was not ousted
by the proceedings in bankruptcy.
For the foregoing reasons, I think the court of Louisiana was.

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

441

Carroll v. Safford.

mistaken when it assumed to have power to suppress the sale made
by the sheriff or t6 let it stand, at its discretion.
The decree is deemed entirely proper; nor would the reasons for
it have been noticed had not my brethren adopted them to the extent above; and with which adopton I cannot concur.

CHARLES H. CARROLL, COMPLAINANT, V. ORRIN SAFFORD, TREASURER
OF THE COUNTY OF GENESEE, IN THE STATE OF MICHIGAN, DEFENDANT.
When the purchaser of iand from the United States has paid for it, and received a final certificate, it is taxable property, according to the statutes of
Michigan, although a patent has not yet been issued.
Taxation upon lands so held is not a violation of the ordinance of 1787, as an
"interference with the primary disposition of the soil by Congress," nor is it
"a tax on the lands of the United States." The state of Michigan could
rightfully impose the tax.
It was competent for the state to assess and tax such lands at their full value,
as the absolute property of the holder of the final certificate, and in default
of payment, to sell them as if he owned them in fee.
In case of controversy, a court of equiiy is the proper tribunal to prevent an
injurious act by a public officer, for which the law might give no adfequate
redress, or to avoid a multiplidity of suits, or to prevent a cloud from being
cast over the title.

Tais case came up on a certificate of division from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Michigan, sitting as a
court of equity.
The complainant resided in the state of New York, and in 1836
purchased from the United States three thousand five hundred and
forty-niue and seventy-one one-hundredths acres of land in Genesee
county, in Michigan. The lands were paid for in the way usually
pursued-by purchasers of the public domain, subject to private entry
and sale. According to tie laws-of Cqngress, and the practice of
the land'officers, an individual wishfiig to purchase a tract of land
makes application, in writing, to the register, specifying, in the application, the particular tract sought to, be bought. The register
examines and ascertains whether it is subject to entry. If it be, he
gives to the applicant a memorandum, addressed to the receiver,
stating the application, andthat the land is subject to entry. This
is taken to the receiver, and the money there paid. The receiver
executes receipts in duplicate, specifying the particular tract sold,
and the price paid for it. One .of these is delivered to the purchaser, the other to the register; and this last is transmitted td
the office at Washington as a voucher against the receiver. The
register then makes out a final certificate, specifying the sale, and:
that the purchaser is entitled to a patent. It is competent for the
VOL. III.-56

