JANUARY. TERM, 1845.

771

Ross v. Prentiss.

the case at bar this fact is expressly negatived, and there i&no
ground, therefore, upon which he can retain, according to the principles decided in the case referred to.
As this point, however, is not in strictness regularly before this
court, we shall confine our answer to the question sent here for decision, and 'hall direct it to be certified to the Circuit Court, that
there was such a privity of contract between the plaintiffs and defendant, as would enable the former to maintain the action for money
had and received.

THOMAS B. WINSTON v. Tm UNITED STATES.
Where the matter in dispute is below the amount necessary to give jurisdiction
to this court, the writ of error must be-dismissed, on motion.

NJY'elson (attorney-general) moved to dismiss this case for want
.of jutisdictibnr, tinder the circumstances stated in the opinion of the
court, which was delivered by
Mr. Chief-Justice TANEY.
A motion has been made to dismiss the case for want of jurisdiction.
It appears that an action was brought by the United States against
the plaintiff in errof, in the District Court of the United States for
the northem district of Mississippi, (the said court having the
powers of a Circuit Court,) for the purpose of recovering "damages
against the plaintiff in error, who was a notary public, for having
faidled to give notice to the endorsers of a promissory note,-put ihto
his bands for protest, wherebythe United States lost their remedy
against them. The note was foK $63 27 cents, and the damages.
in the declaration laid at one thousand dollars. There was a verdict
And judgment for the sum'of $750 36 cents, and it is upon this
judgment that the writ of error is brought.
The matter in dispute is below the amount pecessary'to give
jurisdiction to this court, and the writ of error must therefore be.
disibiissed.
HIRAM PRATT, -DECEASED, APPELLANT, v.
WILLIA.M PRENTISS, MARSHAL, DEFFNDANT.

HUGH Ross, ADMINISTRATOR OF

Where a bill was 'filed on the equity side of the court below, to enjoin the
mirshal from levying an execution upon certain property, which execution
was for a less sum than two thousand dollars, an appeal from a decree dismissing the bill willnot li to this court, although the entire value of the
property may be more than two thousand dollars. "
The jurisdiction of the court does not depend upon the amount of any contingent
loss or damage which one of the parties may sustain by a decision against
him, but upon the amount in dispute betwdn them.

