120

SUPREME COURT.
United States . Gear.

This is the latest de -ision in the courts of the state.to which we
have been referred, oa of which -we are.aware, and, as we have already-said, it appears.to have been well considered. And whatever
doulits might before have been entertained, we njust, under the au-,
thority of this case;xegard it as the settled law of the state, that the
creditor obtains a lien upon the property of hils'debtor by the delivery
of the flerifaciasto the sheriff; that it acquires no-additional validity
or force by being actually levied, but that the lien is as absolute before the levy as-it is afterwards, and continues .while the procss.remains in,the hands of the sheriff to be executed.
In thi view of the subject- it is unnecessary to examie-o'r to remark upon the. caies which have been decided in. other states or in
England, because the -qAstioh depends altogether upon the, law of
Kefitucky. - And as y'the laws of that state a~fteri facias, when
delivered to the "sheriff, is a lieji upon the'property of the debtor
while it continues in the haiids of h6 officer to be executed, the creditor is not deprived- of this lien by an: act of banluptcy on the part
of the debtor committed before the levy is made; but aftr the execution is in the hands of the sheriff. In the case bef6re us, therefore,
the, court are of-opinion that the defendant, by the prior delivery of
the execution and the subsequent levy and sale, has the priot and
superior title, aid We'shall certify-acordingly.'to the Circuit Court.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFF,-"v. HEZEHIAH H.

GEAP, DEFENDAT.

-Tm

H. GAR,

Ui*rD STATES, COMPLAINANT,
ANT

v. HzzEEuIA

DEFEND-

The act of Congress entitled 'An act to create additional land distribts in the
states of Illinois dnd Missouri, and in the territory north of the state ofnli.
nois," approved June 26th, 1834, does not require the President of the United
States to cause to be offered for sale the publie'lands pontaining lead mines
-situated inthe-Iand districts created by said act.
T)ne said act does not require the President to cause.said lands, containing lead
mines, to be sold, because the 5th section of the act of the 3d March, 1807,
entitled "An act making provisidn fop the disposal of the public lands situated
between the United States military tract and the Connecticut reserve, and for
other purposes," is still in full force .
The lands containing lead mines in the Indian a territory, or in that part ofit made
into new land districts by-the act'of the26th June; 1834, are not subjecttrnder
A.nyof the pre-emption laws which have been passed by Congress, to a pre.
emption by settlers upon the public lands.
The 4th secti6n of the act of 1834 does in no way-repeal any part.of ihe 5th
section of the act of the 3d March, 1807, by which the lands containing lead
mines wexe reserved for the future disposal of -the United States, by wilich
grants for lead-mine tracts, discovered to be such befoe they may be bought
from the United States, are declared to be fraudulent lnd null, and which au

* 3ANUARY TER&; 1845.

121

United States v. Gear.
thorized the President to lease any lead mine which had been, or might be,
disdovered in the Indiana teiitory, for a term not exceeding five years.The land containing lead mines,in the distridts made by the acrof 1134, are not
subject to pre-er.ption and sale under any of the existing laws of Congress.
Digging lead ore from the lead mines upon thle public lands of the United States
is such a waste as entitles the United States to a writ of injunction to restrain it.

TnnS two cases came up from the Circuit Court of the United
States for th district of Illinois, and involved thM right of Ger the
defendant, to a tract of laid upon which there was a Iead mine. The
first 'wasan, action of trespass.qare clausum fregiton the commbn
law side Qf the court;. and 'the'.second a bill in chaneery,.with a
prayer for an injunction to stay waste, on the equity side. The
declaration charged Gear with having broke and entered the north
half section 23, township 29 north, range 1 east, and the south half
of fractional section 8, township 28 north, range 1 east, both being
eas of the fourth principal meridian, and then and therm dug up the
mihqml lead'orej &c.,. &c"
'The -defendant filed six pleas, all xesting on the ground that he
had seftled, resided 'on, and occupied the land in question in the
year 1827, and cultivated a part thereof; ahd had ever since remained,
continued, and-'still wasin the possession thereof, and was lawfully
entitled to the pre-emption right to said quarter section; said premises
being subject to pre-emption- rights, and not yet offered for sale by
the President's proclamation; by reason whereof he, the defendant,
dug-leadore or mineral,-as he might lawfully do, &c., &c.
.To these pleas the plaintiff rbplied, in substance, that the quartersection of land was, and always had been, the proprty of the plgintiffs; tlat it contained a valuable lead mine, the existence of which
was well known'to the defendant before and at the time he s.ettled
upon theland, &c.
To these replications the defendant denfurred generally, and the
plaintiffl joined in the demurrer.
The same-principles'were, involved in the chancery case, alleged,
of course, in a different manner.
When the -cause -came up for argument, in the court below, the
udgei were divided in opinio, and the questions duly certified to
ths court. They are somewhat differently stated in the two cases,
and it is proper to m~ntion both.
In the chancery case they are thus stated:
1. Whether the-act of Vongress, entitled "An act to create additional land districts in the states of Illinois, Missourf,_and the territory
north of the state of Illinois," approved June- 26th, 1834, so far repeals the 5th section of the act of the 3d of March, 1807, entitled
"An act making prbvision for the disposal of the public lands situated
between the United States military tract and the Connecticut reserve,
and for other purposes, ' ? as to subject the lands mentioned in said'
act of June 26th, 1834, containing lead mines, to be entered and
VOL. IL-16
L

122

SUPREME COURT.
United Slates v.. Gear.

purchased by pre-emption under any of. the pre-emption laws of
Congress?
2. Whether the said act (1834) requires the President of the
United States to cause lands containing lead mines to be sold, or only
authorizes him to do so in his discretion?
3. Whether lands containing lead mines are subject to be held or
purchased under any of the acts of Congress granting the rights of
pre-emption to settlers upon the public lands?
4. Whether the digging lead ore from the lead mines upon the
public lands of the United States is such, a waste as entitles the
United States to the allowance of a writ of injunctiowto restrain?
In the common law case they are thus stated:
1. Does the act of Congress, entitled " An act to create additional
land districts in the states of Illinois and Missouri, and in the territory
north of the state of Illinois," approved June 26th, 1834, require the
President of theUnited States to. cause to be offered for sale the public lands situate in the land district created by said act, containing
lead mines?
2. Does the said act require the President to cause said lands,
containing lead mines, to be sold, notwithstanding the' 5th section
of the'act of the 3d of March, 1807, entitled "1An act making provisions for the disposal of the public lands situated between the United
States military tract and the Connecticut reserve, and for other purposes ?"
3. Are the said lands, containing. lead ,mines, subject to preemption under any of the pre-emption laws which have been passed
by Congress?
4. Does the 4th section of the said act of 1834 so far repeal the
5th section of the act of 1807, as to subject the public lands containing lead mines to be sold by the United States in the same manner
as other public lands not containing lead mines?
5. Are the said lands, ontainmg lead mines, suhject-to preemption or sale under any of the existing laws of Congress?
The acts of Congress referred t6 are the following:On the '3d of March, 1807, an act was passed, (1 Land Laws,
162,) by. the 5th section of which it was- enacted, 1That the
several lead mines in the Indiana tertitory, together with as many
sections contiguous to each as shall be deemed neessafy by the
President of the United States, shall be reserved for the future disposal of the United States; and any grant which may hereafter be
made- for -a tract of land containing a lead mine, which had been
discovered previous to the purchase of such tract from the United
States, shall be considered fraudulent and null. And the President
of the United States shall be, and he is hereby, authorized to lease
any lead mine which has been, or .may hereafter be, discovered in
the Indiana territory, for a term not exceeding five years."

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

DO

United States v. Gear.
At that time the land now included within the state of Illinois was
.
part of the Indiana territory.
In 1827, Gear; the defendant, enterdd upon the north half of section 23, town~hip 29 north, 6f Yange feast, erected a house upon it,
cultivated and occupied it.
On the 29th of May, 1830, Congress passed "An act to grant
pre-emption richts to settlers on the public lands," the first section of
which was as Follows:
"1That every settler or, occupant of the public land prior to the
passage of this act, who -is now in possession, and cultivated any
pbxt thereof in the year 1829, shall be, and he is hereby, authorized
to enter with the register of the land-office for the district in which
such lands may be, by legal subdivisions, any number of acres, not
more than one. hundred and sixty, or a quarter-section, to include
his improvement, upon paying to the United States the then minimum
price if said land: Proided, however, that n6 entry or sale of any
land shall be made, under the provisions of. this act, which shall
have been reserved for the use of'the United States, or either of the
several states .in which any of the publik lands*may be situated."
The 4th section declared, that the sale of.the public lands should
not be delayed, nor should the. act be available for those who failed
t6.make proof and payment, and concluded as follows:
"Nor shall the rights of pre-emption contemplated by this act extend to any land wZich is reserved rom sale by act of Congress,. or
by.order of the President, or which may have been*'appropriated for

any purpose whatsoever."
The act was to remain in force for one year after its pdssage.
On the 5th of April, 1832, Congress passed an "act supplementary to the several laws for the ale of the public lands," which permitted the public lands to be purchased either in .entire sections, halfsections, quarter-sections, half quarter-sectipns, or quarter quartersections, and contained three provisions,'the third of which was as-

follows:
"Provided further, that all actual settlers, being house-keepers,
upon -the public land, shall have the right of pre-enmption to enter,
within six months after the passage of this act, -not.exceeding the
quantity of one half quarter-sectio'n, under the provisions of this act,
to'includle his or their improlements, under such regulations as have
been, or may be, prescribed by the secretary of the Treasury," &e.
On the 14th of July, 1832, Congress passed "An act suppleinental to an act graitig the right of'pre-emption to settlers on the
public lands, approved on the 29th of May, 1830,1- which is too
long to be'quoted. The purport of it was to extend to occupants
and settlers the privilege- granled by the prior act until one year afterthe surveys bad been made, or the land hadl been attached to a particular land district.
.On the 2d of March, 1833, an act was passed reviving that of

124

SUPREME COURT.
United States v..Gear.

Aliril 5th, .1832, extending the privileges granted by that act to the
-same peiod as those just mentioned, and placing the beneficiaries
of 6e.two acts of the 5th of April and 14th of July upon the same.
*footing.
In 1834, two acts were passed-, one on the 19th and one on the
26th of June. That of the 19th was to -revive the act to grafit preemption rights to settlers on the public lands, approved May 29th,
1830,
The 1st section declared, that every settler or occupant of tie
public lands prior to the passage of the act, who was'then in possession, and cultivated any p'art thereof in the year 1833, should be
the benefits and privileges pmryided, by the act of 29th •
entitled to ill
May,. 1830; which act was revived and continued- in force for two
years.
The actof the 26th Junewas entitled "An act to create additional
land.districts in the states of Illinois andMissouri4 and in the territory
noaih.of the stat of Illinois."
Thd 4th section enacted, "that. the Ptesident shall be authorized,
.assoon' as. the survey shall have been completed, to cause to be
offered, for sale, in the mranner prescfibedby law, all the lands lying
in said land districts, at the land-offices in the respective districts in
'which the land so offered' is embraced, reserving only section 16,
in each township, the tract reserved for the village Galen'a, such other
tracts as have been granted,to individ'ials and the state of Illinois, and
such reservations as the President shall deem *necessary to retain for
military posts, any law of Congress heretofore existing to the con-

tary notwithstanding." - '
On the 22d of 'June, 1838, an act was passed, the title of which
was "An act to grant pre-emptioni rights to settlers on the public
lands." It enacted that every actual 0settler of the public lands,

beinpg the head of a familyy or over twenty-ofie-years of age, who
was in possession and a house-keepei, by personal residence thereon
at the time of the passaoe of the act and for four months next preceding, .should be entitlea to all the: benifits and privileges of.the act
of May 29th, 1830; 'which'- act was thereby revived and continuetl
in force for two years.. it contained a nilmber-f provisions, one-of
which was, that it should not be so construed as to give a right of
pre-emption to -any land specially occupied or reservedfor town-lots
or other purposes by authority of the. United States.
. By'the act of the 1st June, 1840, the above act was continued in
force until the 22d of June, 1842,.subject to the exceptions therein
contained.,
On the 4th of September, 1841, ai act was passed entitled "An
act to 'appropriate the proceeds of the sales of the public lands, and
to rmt pre-emption rights."
The 10th section granted pre-emption rights to actual settlers, with
several limitations and exceptions, two of which were as follows, viz.:

JANUAR

oY.
TERM,184 .

125

United States v..Gear.

"No lands included in any reservation by any treaty, law, or,proclamation-of the President of the United States, or reserved for salines
or for other purposes," and ",no lands on-which are situated any
known salines or mines, shall be liable to entry under and by virtue
of the provisions of this aict."
,Nelson, attorney-general; for the United-States.
Hardin, for. the defendant.
JNelson. The early acts of Congress upon the subject are all stated
in Mr. Gilpin's argument, 14Peters, 529. The act of 1807 reserves
all lead mine$. If that -et is still in force the case is clearly within
it, because the replicationavers the existence of a lead mine on this
tract of land, and-it is not controverted. If the case is withdrawn
from the operation of that act, it must be through the effect of some
one of the pre-emptio-i laws. Let us.inquire. - I
By the act of 1830 1 Lfand.Laws,'473, 474, chap. 401, there is
no right of pre-emption inlands reserved from sale.
That of 1832 cannot apply, %echuse there is nothing-in the recorcd
to show that the defendant made an application for this land, arid thus
brought himself within-the provisions of the act.
That of 1834 merely revived the act of 1830. Of course the same
restriction was continued; and by.that-of 1838 it was continued for
two years ldnger.
By the act of 18.41, Session Acts, p. 26, chap. 16,section 10,.no
land isto be entered on which lead mines are.
"
Ir'- no act is there a pre-emption right varying from that given by
that'of 1830, except in the law of 1832,ivhich says it shall be subject
1o such 'coditions as the secretay of.te Treasury shiould. impose.
But, in maliing these conditions, it was hi- duty to conform to the
settled policy of the country.
Theke acts-niay then'be laid- aside, as having no bearing on the
case. The one under which the controversy- arises is. thit. passed in
1834. At this session, two acts were passed,.viz.: 1834, chap. 467;
passed on 19th June; 1834, chap. 527, passed on 26th June.
The 4th section of .the latter act is the clause-to which the attention of the court should be. directed. It authorizes the President
to offer for sale the lands therein mentioned, with certain exceptions;
and it is contended, on tke pWr of the defendant,that lead mines are
mot named in the exceptiois, and'that, consequently, the right of
pre-emption accrued.
. The juestion is, does this act repeal that of 1807, and authorize
the Presdent to sell without regard to the restrictions imposed upon
him by the act of 1807?. I thinlLnot; because,
1. The act of-1834 was-not designed'to bear upon that of 1807.
rt had a diferent object in yiew, professing to establish land-offices.
There were two laws passed at that session, one-seven days after the
other. The, one firt passed provided for pre-emptions, and reserved.
.L2
-

-

-

-

126

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Gear.

lead mines. Is it probable that these provisions would be repealed
by a law passed- a few days afterwards, and purporting to regulate
an entirely different matter?
2. In every subsequent act, of -1838, 1840, 1841, there is the
same reservation as in 1830, which is a strong legislative exposition
of the meaning of Congress. In the distribution law, it is repeated;
and the practice of the executive depaitment hag always been to refuse to grant such lands.
3. There 'isanother legislative interpretation. In1842(chap. 190)
an act was passed, including Wisconsin' in the act of 1834. Those
who had entered lead mines.were indemnified, and allowed to enter
other lands, provided they did not violate the act of 1830.
4. By the section of 1834 under consideration, the President
might offer the lands for sale, but itwas n6t.incumbent on him to do
so. He had a discretionary power, which carried with it the right
to refuse to hell them. at the minimum price of one dollar and twentyfive cents per acre. See opinion of Attorney-General Butler, 2 Land
Laws, 127,- 128.
Ia.14 Peters, 526, the court has decided this question. In that
.case the contract for leasing was made after.1834. It is true, that the
act was not noticed in the argument, but this shows the opinion to
have been then, that the act had nothing to do '-ith the subject. It
was argued by Mr. Benton upon a different ground.
But suppose that the President was authorized to sell these lands.
How does the right of pre-emption follow? This is a matter regulated by Congress only. Does the act of 1834 give a right of entry.
before the lands are offered at public' sale? The act of 1830 might
have thrown open all lands, then in the market, to pre-emption rights;
but it'does not follow that that of 1834 did so too..
As to the propriety of grapting n injunction in the equity case, on
the ground that the bill alleges, that the injury will be irreparable,
see 2' Land Laws, '17; 3 Wheat. 131; 2' Stdry's E.q. 207, 208;
'Dewey on Injunctions, 137, 183, 184, 112.
Hardin, for defendant.
,The act of "1807reserved lead mines from sale, but left them subject to the future action of Congress. They were fiot appropriated-to
any particular purpose: no. plan was adopted 'for their subsequent
&overnment. All t6at was done by that act was to say, that at some
time thereifietr Congress would consider what course should be taken
with regard to them. .They were, therefore, just as much open to
the legislation of Congress as any 6ther portion of 'ih public lands.
If an appropriation of them had been 'nade, to take immediate effect,
the case would have been different; for there is a distinction between
reservation and appropridtion. Grants made by executive officers'
were declared void; "but this was not intended to guide future congressional action. By the act of 1830, pre-emption rights are-given

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

127

United States v. Gear.
in the broadest sehse, except where lands are reserved for the United
States. But they were often reserved for canals, light-houses, &c.
As long as the ,act of 1807 was in force, we admit, that the act of
1830 did not give a right of pre-emption to the land in question, because it was reserved from sale. But the act of April 5th, 1832,
permits quarter quarter-sections to be entered, and extends the privilege to all house-keepers, who had settled on the public lands, in the
broadest possible terms. The defendant's plea shows him to have
been entitled to claim it. There was no reservation in the act. It
has -been said, by-the attorney-general, that no settlement could be
made on lands which had not been offered for salej and that the
secretary of the Treasury must prescribe regulations. But the very
term implies a recognition of a settlement thus made. What is it?
Pre-emption: a right to purchase before the day of public sale. Be-.
fore the passage of such a law, a settler was an intruder; but afterwards, he had an estate upon condition. And if he complied with
the act, he fulfilled the condition, and the estate became absolute.
It has been called a gift. But if so, it was a gift under a legislative
grant, -which, in effect, vests the title, of which a subsequent patent
is only the evidence. .2 Kent, 255; 4 Peters, 408, 422; 2 Howard,
316, 344.
Being so, it was not in the power of the President or ahy executive officer to take it away.
If we look to results, they are all in our favour. The object of
Congress, in making the original reservation, was to prevent monopoly, but not the general'settlement of the country. The leasing
system has not paid expenses, and it injures the land. The secretary
of War has, for many years, recommended that the lead mines 'should
be sold; and we say, that Congress has ordered it, bft that the President has improperly withheld, them from sale.
By the act of 26th June, .184, the President was authorized to
sell the public lands with certain reservations, and these are not within the reservations. But the attorney-general says, that the Presidenc
was only authorized to sell; that it was a matter within his discretion.
Be it so. This removes them from the list of reservations; and being
no longer reserved, the pre-emption law of the 19th June comes in
and operates upon them. What construction mustbe given to the
word "authorized?"
We say, it makes it the duty of the President to sell.
It is not only used so in the act of 26th June, 1834, but iii all acts
in which Congfess directs or authorizes land to be sold by order of
the President. As in these acts: February 17th, 1818, sect. 3, Land
laws, 294; March 3d, 1823, sect. 10, Land Laws, 364; July 14th,
1832, sect. 2, Land Laws, 511; July 7th, 1838, sect. 1, Land Laws,
578; March 3d, 18-15, sect. 5, Land Laws, 260; May 6th, !8i2,.
sect. 1, Land Laws, 214.
Congress never does order the President inimperative terms. The

128

SUPREME

O URT.

United-States v.'Gear.

langu.ige is courteous; but it-s a ministerial 'act-to proclaim the
lands for sale. Grignon v. Astor3 2 Howard, 344.
ThLs power can be exercised.by otheoqfficers than the President;
and .infthe following cases other subordmate.officers are authorized,:
alias directed,to make sales, &c.: secretkry 6f War, March 3d, 1803,
Csect. 2, Land, Laws, 99; secretary of Treasumy-, March 3d, 1825,
sect. 1, Land Laws, 403; registers and receivers, April 27th, 1816,.
sect. 1, Land Laws, 274'; April 30th,, 1810, sect. 1, Land Laws,
176;,".prope 'officer," May 13th, 1800, set. 1, Land Laws, 78;
"commissioners," July 14th, 1832, sect. 2, LandLaws, 510. See
also, acts 23d-August, 1842, sect. 2, Acts, 124; 4th August, 1842,
sect. 1, Ac.ts,- 83; 10th May,. 1842, sect. 1-Acts; 14.
These Iead-mine lands being'authorized to be sold, without any
reservation, and no power existing in the President to rhserve them
.rom- sale, more than any.other public lands, so much: f the law'of
1807, as" reserved them for the-future disposal of the United States,"
was necessarily repealed by.the act of 1834. The reservation being
takei ofl; th'ey become-subject to rights of occupancy, as other lands,
and settlers acquiring fights to.pre-empfion;,'y Virtue of pre-emption
laws, cannot be divested of these rights by the refusal of the President
,toproclaim them for'tale,
if the -pre-emption laws, passed prior to the act of 1834, did'not
give the defendant a right of pre-emption,' the pre-emption law. of
1838 did. This'act makes no mention.of reserving lead mines. It
-is
provided in tbfsact, that it shall not extend "to any land specially
occupied or reserved for town lots, or other purposes, by authoity
of the United States.'
These-lead- mine lands..were not occupied or reserved for any purpose by the United States. They were, in .1807, reserved from sale
for future disposal; but nowhere are they apptpriated or reserved for the use of the government, to 'dig.mineral, or other special- ue..
The object of the .original .reservalion was to delay -the sale until
Congress should determine what disposition' should be made of them,
By the law of 1834,and the various ,pre-emptionlaws, Cpngress 'has
authorized their sale and disposal; and they are not, conseqnentIy,
'within the meaning-of any reservation or' appropriation mentioned -M
the subsequent pre-emption laws..
On all public lands, authorized to be sold, citizens are permitted
.and encouraged, by the pre-emption laws, 'o go on' thex and im,
prove-them.-. To do s6, theymust erect houses ,break 'up' the natural
.4neadow, and fell trees. These arall acts of waste, according-to
the -common law.
Th'e old acts'of Congress against waste, and to punish for.trespasses
in cutting timber,:&c., are inconsistent with these pre-emption laws,
and.the rights and privileges'grantdd to occiipints under them'; consequently, they are repealed by the p're-empTfbn laws'subsequently
passed. Neither action can therefore'be sustained.

JANUARY

TERM, 1845.

129

United States v. Gear.
'elson, in reply and conclusion.
The question of a general reservation does not arise in the case.
The replication sets out, that defendant knew that mines were on the
land; and by his demurrer he admits that he knew it. The act of
1807 reserves mines, and declares, that all grants of them shall be
considered fraudulent and null. Under this act.alone, the.defendant
would have been a trespasser, even if he had obtained a grant of
the land.
It has been said, that the district attorney had no right to bring
suit without the authority of an act of Congress. But the Constitution -makes it the duty of the President to see that all laws are executed, and the power to sue results from the nature of things.
The act of 1830 is the'first and general pre-emption law; and no
law, now in force, is inconsistent with this. It says that its provisions do not apply t6 lands which were reserved from sale; but the
act of 1807"had already reserved these lands.
The act of April, 1832, has no application. It was not designed
as A pre-emptiQn law, but tQ allow smaller subdivisions than had
lleen'lNore toler'tecl. The claim here is not for one of these subdivisions, but an entire quarter-section. But the privilege granted
by the act of 1832 is confined to half quarter-sections, and extends
to no larger amount.
The act of July,*1832, merely gave an extension of time;
-The ict of 1834 appears to be the chief reliance of the defendant.
We admit, that if the court think that this act grants the lands, the
plaintiff is not entitled to maintain this suit. But it does not profess to be a pre-emption act. It is to create additional land-districts. It authoriies .the President to do certain things in the manner ptescribed by law. But a pre-emptioner can only claim under
an act of Congress,*and 'this act does not give him power, to enter,
vAich is expressly prohibited by the act of 1830. It does not follow that any pre-emptioner may take up lands as soon as their sale
is authorized;- No statute gives him such a right. The question*
is, what was the intention of Congress in passing this law? The
answer must be sought in the act itself, and in the circumstance
that, seven days before, a regular pre-emption law had been passed.
The act of 1838 contains many reservations, and it is argued that
mines are not included within them. But the general phrase, "for
other purposes," will include mines; an4 besides, itprofessed to re.
vive the'act of 1830, with all its reservations.
Mr. Justice WA.vE delivered the opinion of the court.
From the foregoing statement of all the acts of Congress having
any bearing on the subject before us, we think it obvious it was not
intended to subject lead-mine lands in the districts made by the act
of the 26th June, 1834, to -sale as other public lands are sold) or to
make them liable to a pre-emption by settlers.
VOL. II.-17

130

-SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Gear.

The argument in support of a contrary conclusion is, that the reservations in the fourth sectionof that act, with the authority given to the
President to sell all the lands in the districts, any law of Congress
heretofore existing to the contrary. notwithstanding, exclude leadmine tracts in those districts from the operation of the act of the 3d
of March, 1807. At most, the language of the fourth section of the
act of 1834 imparts only an authority to the President to sell, given
in the same way as it has been conferred upon him in other acts
providing for the sale of the public lands. Then the question occurs, whether the section of an act, in general terms to sell, (certain
reservations excepted,) without any reference to a previous act,
which declares that lead mines in the Indiana Territory shall be reserved for the future disposal of the United States, is so far a repeal of
the latter, that lead-mine lands in apart of that territory are subjected to sale as other public lands are. Why should Congress, without
certain words showing an intention to depart from the policy which
had governed its legislation in respect to lead-mine lands in the
whole of the Indiana Territory, from 1807 to 1834, be supposed to
have meant to exempt a portion of the lead-mine lands in that territory
from that policy, in art act,:the whole purview of which was to creat6
additional land-sale districts? Besides, the reservations in the fourth
section of the act of 1834, except the tract for the village of Galena,
are no more than the reaffirmance of some of the provisions of other
statutes respecting reservations made or to be made out of the public
lands in other districts; and cannot, therefore, be considered as an
enumeration in connection with the general power to sell all lands,
any law of Congress heretofore existing to the. contrary notwithstanding, repealing another act, providing for a reservation of a particular class of lands within the same land-district to which the act
of 1834 applies. The reservations in the fourth section of the. act
of 1834 are limitations upon the authority to sell; and not an enlargement of the general power of the President to sell lands, which,
by law, he never bad a power to sell; which have always been prohibited by law from being sold, and which 'never have been sold,
except under the authority of a special statute, such.as that of the
3d March, 1829, 1 Land Laws, 457, which authorized the President to cause the reserved lead mines in the state of Missouri
to be sold. In looking at that act, no one can fail to observe the
care taken by the government to preserve its property in the leadmine lands, or to come to the conclusion that the reservations of
them can only be released by special legislation upon the subjectmatter of such reservations. Authority, then, to sell all lands in the
districts made by the act of 1834, though coupled with the concluding words of the fourth section, can only mean all lands not prohibited by law from being sold, or which have been reserved from
sale, by force of law. The propriety of this interpretation of that
section is more manifest, when it'is considered, if a contrary inter-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

131

United States v. Gear.

pretation is givela, that the lead-mine lands in one district of the
same territory would be liable to sale and pre-emption, and those in
another part of it would not be. Can any one possible reason be
suggested to sustain even the slightest intention upon the part of
Congress, when it was passing the act of 1834, to make such differences in 'respect to lands within the same locality, as have just
been mentioned? Could 'Congress have meant to say, under a
power to sell, that'it would be lawful to sell in the new land district what it was unlawful to sell in other land districts of the same
territory of which the new land district was also a part? And tfit
settlers upon the public landi within the new district should hav6i~a
right of pre-emption in lead-mine tracts, which settleis upon other
lands within the same territory, but not within the new land district,
could not have? The mere fact of a jnew land district having been
made out of a part of the territory in which the'lead-mine lands had
been reserved, with the authority to the President to sell all lands
in the new district, can have no effect to lessen the force of the original reservation. In truth, the acts of 1834 and 1807 .do not present a case of conflict in the serse in which statutes do- when, from
some *expressionin a later act, it may seem that something was intended to be excepted from the force of the former, or to operate as
a partial repeal of it. The rule is., that a perpetual statute, (which
all statutes are unless limited to a particular time,) until repealed by
an act professing to repeal it, or by a clause or section of another
act directly bearing in terms upon the particular matter of the first
act, notwithstanding an implication to the contrary may be raised by
a general law which embraces the subject-matter, is considered still
to be the law in force as to the particulars of the subject-matter legislated upon. Thus in this case, all lands within the district meanlands in which there are, and in which there are not, minerals or
lead mines; but a power to sell all lands, given in a law subsequent
to another law expressly reserving lead-mine lands from sale, cannot
be said to be a power to sell the reserved lands when they are not
named, or to repeal the reservation. In this case there are two acts
before us, in no way connected, except in both being parts of the
public land system. Both can be acted upon without any interference of the provisions of the last 'with those of the first-each per-.
forming its distinct*functions within the sphere as Congress designed
they sfould do. But further, that the act of 1834was not intended
as a repeal of the act of 1807, in regard to lead mines, so as to grant
a right of pre-emption in them to settlers, is manifest from the fact
that an act was passed only seven days before it, reviing an act to
grant pre-emption rights to settlers on the public lands, which excludes settlers from the right of pre-emption in any land reserved
from sale .by act of Congress. Thus' reasserting, then, what had
been uniformly a part of every pre-emption law before, and what
has been a limitation upon the right of pre-emption in every act for

132

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Gear.

that purpose since. We do not think it necessary to pursue the subject further, except to say that the view we have here -taken of the
act of 1834, in respect to lands containing lead mines, and the right
of pre-lemption in them, is coincident with the opinion given by thig
court in-the case of Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Peters, 513. That case
was well and most carefully considered, and expressed, in the deliberate language of this court. We. determined, then, the point being directly in the cause, that the act of 1834 had relation to a sale
of lands in the manner prescribed by law, at public auction, and
that a right of pre-emption was governed by other laws. The court
said, "the very act of 19th June, 1834, under which this claim is
made, was passed but one week before the one of which we are now
speaking, (meaning the act of 26th June, 1834,) thus showing that
the provisions of the-one were not intended to:have any effect upon
We see no
the subject-matter on which the other operated."
reason to change what was then the view of the court. On the contrary, there is much in this case to confirm it. Let it be certified,
therefore, to the judges of the Circuit Court of the United States for
the district of Illinois, that this court is of the opinion that the act'of
Congress, entitled "An act to create additional land-districts in the•
states of Illinois and Missouri, and in the territory north of the state
of Illinois," approved June 26- 1834, does not require the President
of the United States to cause to be offered for sale the public lands
crn.ainingleadmines situated in the land districts created by-said act.
2d. That the said act does not recuirp.j:the President to cause said
lands, containing lead mines,'to be sold, because the 5th section of
-the act of the 3d March, 1807, entitled"An-ac making provision
(or the disposal of the public lands, situated between the United
States military tract and the Connecticut reserve, and for other purposes," is still in full force.
. To the third question we reply, that the lands containing lead
miues in the Indiana Territory, or in, that paif of it made into new
land-districts by the act of the 26th June, 1834, :are not subject, under any of the pre-emption- laws whih have been passed by Congress, to a pre-emption by settlers uponthe public lands.
To the 4th question, we reply that the 4th section of the act of
1834Cdoes in no way repeal any part of the 5th section of the act of
the 3d of March, 1807, by which the lands containing lead mines'
were reserved for the future disposhI of the United States, by which
grafits for lead-mine tracts, discovered to be such before they may.
be bought from the United States, are declared to be fraudulent and
null, and which authorized the President to lease any lead mine
which had been, or might be, discovered in the Indiana Territory,
for a term- not exceeding five years.
To the 5th question we reply, that-the land containing lead mines
in the districts made by the act of 1834, are not subject to pre-emp•tion and sale under any of the existing laws of Congress.

JANUAItY TERM, 1845.

133

Gordon v. Appeal Tax Co-urt

The foregoing answers apply also to the points upon whinih. the
judges were divided in opinion upon the bill in. chancery, betwdeii
the United States and thq defendant Gear, except the fourth question,'
certified in that case; and to that'we reply;- that digginfg lead ore

from the lead mines upon the public lands in the United States, is
such a Waste as entitles the United .States to a writ of'injunctionto
restrain it.

[For the dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice McLn.tr, see App. p. 78 9 .]

SAMUEL GoRDoN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V.

THE AprlA

TAx COURT.

JAKsS CHEsTON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. TaE A.&PAL TAx COURT..
The charter of a bank is a'francliise, which Is not taxable, as such, if a price
has been paid for it, which the legislature accepted. But the corporate property of the banlk is separable from te franchise,ad may
be thxed, unless there is a special agreement to the contrary.
The legislature of Maryland, in 1821, continued the charters of several banki
to 1845, upon condition,-that they would.make a road and pay aschool ta
This would have exempted- their franchise, but not their property, from taxation.
But another clause in-the law- provided, that upon any of the' aforesaid banks
accepting of and complying with the terms and conditions of the hct,.the faith
- of the state was pleaged not to impose'any-further tax or burden upon them
during the continuance of their charters under the act
This was a contract relating to something beyond the franchise, and exempted.
the stoekholders from a tax levied upon them as individuals, according to the
amount of their stock.

TnEsE were kindred cases brought up by writ of error from the
Court of Appeals of die state ofMaryland, under the 25th sectioi of
the Judiciary Act of 1789.
The first case depended upon the constitutionality of a tax imposed
by the legislature of Maryland in 1841, it l&ing alleged to be i&
violation of a contract made by the legislature in 1821; and the

second depended upon the same circumstance5 with.the addition-that
.the plaitiff in error was-entitled to the benefit of the same contract,

by virtue of an act of the General Assembly, passed in 1834.
The facts in the case were thes:

At November session, .1804, the legislature of Maryland incorporated the Union Bank of Maryland.

Samuel Gordon, the plaintiff

in error in the first casd, was, at the institittipn of .the suit.below,'.a

stockholder in this bank.

No bonns was required to be. paid to the

state, but five "housand shareswer6 reserved for the use and benefit

of the state of Maryland, to.be subscribed for by the*state, when -desired by the legislature thereof. The chartr was to last until 1816.
At the session of -1812.the tegilatu~eawed .lact, entitled "An

act to incorporate a company t6 make a turnpiMe road' leading to
Cumberland, and for the extension of the charters of the several

M

"

