JANUARY TERM, 1845.
Ex parte Dorr.

108

certainly the layr does not imply damages of the description abQve
stated. But we think the evidence was not admissible in any form
of pleading. In the case of Hathaway v. Barrow, 1 Camp. 151, in
an action on the case for a conspiracy to prevent the plaintiff from
obtaining his certificate under a commission of bankruptcy, the court
refused to receive evidence of extra costs incurred by the plaintiff in
a petitiozf before the chancellor. In the case of Jenkins v. Biddulph,
4 Bingh. 160, in an action against a shiriff for a false return, the
court said they were clearly of 6pinion that the' plaintiff was not
entitled to recover the extra costs he had paid.; that, as between the
attorneys and their clients, the case might be different, because the
attorney might have special instructions, which may warrant him in
incurring the extra costs, but that in a case like the one before them
the plaintiff could only claim such .costs as the prothonotary had
taxed. And in the case of Grace -. Morgan, 2 Bingh. N. C. 534, in
an action for a vexatious and excessive distress, the plaintiff was not
allowed to recover as damages the extra costs in an action of replevin
which the plaintiff had brought for the goods distrained; and the
case in 1 Stark. 306, in which a contrary principle had been adopted, was overruled.
These were stronger cases for extra costs than the one before us.
The admission of the testimony in relation to the largest item in these
oharges, that is, for interest paid by the plaintiffs, amounting to more
than $9000, is still more objectionable. For it appears from thestatement in the exception that the very same account had been laid
before the solicitor, and had induced Lim, as he states in his report
to Congress, to make the plaintiffs an allowance in his award
for interest, amounting to $6893 93. And to admif. this evidence
again in this suit was to enable the plaintiff; to recover twice for the
same thing; nd after having received from the United States what
was deemed by the referee a just compensation for this item of
damage, to recover it over again from the defendant.
There are several other questions stated in the record, but it is
needless. to remark upon themn, as.the opinions already expressed.
dispose of the 'whole case. The judgment of the Circuit Court must
be reversed.
[Forthe dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice McLtAN, see App. p.800.]

Ex PzaiTn Domt
Neither the Supreme Court, nor any other court of the United States, or judge
thereof, can issue a habeas coq_ to-bring up a prisoner, who is in custody
under a sentence or execution of a state court,' for any other purpose than to
be used as a witness.
An application for a writ of erior, prayed for without the authority of the party
concerned, but at the request'of his friends, cannot be granted.

104

°SUPREME CO.URT.
Ex parte Do.rr.

-M'R. TRFADWELL moved far a writ of habeas corpus to bring -up
.Thomas-W. Dorr, of Rhode Island, under the following circutnstances :He stated that Dorr was charged with levying war against the
state of Rhode Island, and sentenced to the state's prison or life, in
June, 1844; that upon the trial a point of law was raised, whether
treason could be committed against a state, but the court would nbt
permit counsel to argue it; that a motion was made to suspend th&
sentence until a writ of error could b6 sued out to bring the case
.before the. Supreme Court of the United States, but the cout refused
to suspend it. He then read affidavits to show that personal access
to Dorr was denied, in consequence of which his authority could'not
be obtained for an application for such a writ. The present motion
for a habeas corpus was based upon this fact. There was no other
mode of ascertaining whether or not it was Dort's wish that his case
should be brought up to this court. Under the 14th section"of the
Judiciary Act, the power to. issue writs 6f habeas corpus was vested
in.the judges of the United States' courts. -3Story's Com. tit. Jurisdction, 588, 590,, 594,.595, 603, 608, 610, 625.
The case was in itself proper -to be brought up. under the 25th
section of the Judiciary Act, as the decision of the state court was
thought to be inconsistent with the Constitution of the United States.

Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
*ThomasW. Dorr was convicted before the Supreme Court of
iliode Island, at March term, 1844, of treason against the state of
Rhode.1sland, andsentenced to the state's prison for life. And it
appears from theifildavits of Francis C. Treadwell, a cotmsellor at
law of this court, and others, that personal access to Dorr, in his
confinement, to ascertain whether he desires a writ of error to remove
the record of his conviction to this court, has been refused. On this
ground the above application has been made.
Have the court power to issue a writ of habeas corpus in this case?
This is a preliminary question, and must be first considered.
The original jurisdiction of this court is limited by the Constitution
to cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers, and consuls,
and where a state is a party. Its appellate jurisdiction is regulated
by acts of Congress. Under the commcn law, it can exercise no
jurisdiction.
As this case cannot be brought under the head of original jurisdiction; if sustainable, it must be under the appellate power.
The 14th section of the Judiciar Act of 1789 provides, "that the
courts of the United States shall have power to issue writs of sdre
facias, habeas corpus, an4 all other writs -not specially provided for
by statute, which may be necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions, and agreeable to the principles and usages of law.
And that either of the justices of the Supreme Court, as well as

JANUARY TERM, i845.

105

Ex parte Dorr.
judges of the District Courts, shall have power to grant writs 6f
habeas corus for the purpose of an inquiry into the cause of commitment: Provided that writs of habeas corpus shall in no-'case extend
to prisoneLs in jail, unless where they are'in custody under or by
colour of the authority of the United States, or are committed for
trial befire some court of the same, or are necessary to be brought into
-court to testify." .:
In the trial of Dorr,*it was insisted that the law of the state, under
which he was prosecuted; was repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States. And on this ground a wit of error is desired., under
thd 25th section of the Judiciary Act above named. That as the
prayer for this writ can only be made by Dorr or by some one under
his authority, and as ecess'to him in prison is denied, it is insisted
that the writ to bring him before the courtis the only means through
which- thig court can exercise jurisdiction in his case b a writ of
error. Even if this were admitted, yet the question recu.rs, whether
this court has power to issue the writ to bring him before it. That
it has no sudh power under. the common law is clear. And it is
equally clear that the'power nowhere exists, unless it be found in
the 14th section above cited.
The power given to the courts, in this section--to issue writs of
scirefaias,habeas corpus, &c., as regards'the writ ofhabeas corpus,
is restricted by the proviso to -cases where a prisoner is "in custody
under or by colour of the authority'of the United States, or has been
committed for tridlbefore some court of the same, or is necessary to be
brought into court to testify." This is so clear, from the language
of the. section, that any illuptration of it would seem to be unneces-"
sary. The words of the proviso are -unambiguous. They admit ofbut one construction. And that they-qualify an~d restrict the preced-.
ing provisions of the section is indisputable.
Neither this nor any other -court of- the UnitedStates, or judge
thereof, can issue a habeas corpus to bring up a prisoner, who is in
custody under a sentence or execution of a state court, for any other
purpose than to be used as a witness., And it is immaterial whether
the imprisonment be. under civil or criminal process. As the law
now stands, an individual, who may be indicted in a Circuit Court
for treason against the United States, is beyond the power of federal
courts and judges, if he be in custody under the authority of a

state.
Domr is in confinement under the sentence of the Supreme Court
of Rhode Island, consequently this court has no power to issue a
habeas corpus to bring him before it. His presence here is not required as a witness, but to sigii4 to the couit whether he desires a
writ of error to 'bring before this tribunal the record of his conviction.
The counsel in this application prays for a writ of error, but as it
appears from his own admission that he does not act under the auVOL. HI.-14

106

SUPREME COURT.
Qurtis v. Martin et al,

thority of Dorr, but at the. request of his friends, the prayer cannot
be granted. In this view it is unnecessary to decide whether the
counsel has stated a case, which, with the authority of his client, entitles him to a writ of error.
The motion for a habeas cormu is overruled.

EDWARD CURTIS,

PLAINTIFF IN .ERROR,

V. W LLIAM MARTIN

AND

CHARLES A. COE, DEFENDANTS.
An act-of Congress imposing a duty upon imports must be construed to describe
the article upon which the duty is imposed, according to the commercial undeistanding of the terms used in the law in our own markets at the time when
the law was passed.
The duty, therefore, imposed by the act Qf 1832 upon cotton bagging, cannot
properly be levied upon an article which was not known in the market as
cotton bagging in 1832, although it may subsequently be called so.

TnIs case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit Court
of the United States for the southern district of New York.
It was an action brought in the court below by Martin and Coe
against Curtis, the collector, for return of duties upon certain importation's of gunny cloth, from Dundee, in Scotland, from April
to September, 1841.
The facts in the case are clearly stated in the following brief of
Mr. JVelson, attorney-general, who argued the case on behalf of
Curtis, the plaintiff in error:This was an action brought by the defendants in error against
Curti , as collector of the port of New York, to recover back the
sum of $4543 17 of duties, levied by him on a certain article as
cotton bagging, which, they contended, was gunny baggn, a nonenumerated article in the tariff of 1832, and therefore duty free; and
the. question in the cause was, whether this kind of bagging was cotton bagging within the meaning of the revenue laws? The dfies
were paid under written protest annexed to each entry.
By the tariff of 1832 it is enacted, that " dn cotton bagging three
and a half cents a square yard, without regard to' the weight or
width of the article," of duty shall be collected. This duty, modified by the Compromise Act, was chargeable when the goods were
imported.
The imported article, used as bagging for the packing of cotton,
is principally manufactured in the town of Dundee, in Scotland, and,
like the bagging of Kentucky, Was made of hemp, until the material
of which the gunny cloth, of India is mallufactured began to be used.
Bagging for cotton has also been made of cotton.
Gunny (Bengalee Gdni) is a coarse, strong sackcloth, manufac-

