82

SUPREME COUR-T.
Barrytv. G~mble.

These provisions cannot, -by.any known rule of construction, be
made to refer to-laws or regulations- existing at the tinie. of their
enactment. They all refer to the "fiture: to futfire laws, and regft-

-lations prescribed by those laws.
The existing laws .,made no provision to carry into effect the
-changes in the systtm, introduced by te act of 1833. Appraisers
were appointed under "forner ants, but there was no law or regla-.
,tion as to the home valuation.'. This was a most important matter,
under the new-system, , And it-s perceived, from. the explicit provision. of "the act of 1833, that Congress did n6t intend to leave an
arrangement of- so much' importance- to 'the discretion of the secre-

tary of. the Treasury or of the President. They declate±,that the
duties shall be assessed,' "under such .regulations as may be prescribed by law." This is not to be met by-argument. *It is matter
of No
law.one can doubt, that

laws in relation-to duties, not inconsistent
-with.the act of 1833, may be considered in giving a ionstrnicion to

that act. But I'am yet to learni that such laws, by any construction,
can suspend or modify thepoitiye enactments of the act of 1833.
Such a power belongs not t6 the executive nor the judiciary, but to
Congress.

J&Amer B~suy, PLAixF nx zRuin,-v. EAISITox IL. O~xmr. .
Under the act of 1815, a New Madrid certilflafe could be located upon lands
before.theywere offered af public sale under a proclamation.of the President,
or even surveyed'by the public surveyor.
The act of 1822 recognized locations of this kifnd, although they disregarded
the sectional lines by which th6 surveys were afterwards made.
Under the acts of 1805,1806, and 1807; it was necessary to file the evidences
of an incomplete claim under French or Spanisli authority, which bore date
anterior to the 1st of October, 1800, as well as those which were dated subsequent to that day; and i caise of neglect, the bar provided in the acts
appliEd to both classes.
A title resting on a permit tosetta and warrant of survey, dated bef9re the Is;
of October, 1800, without any settlement of' survey having been .made, was
an incomplete title and within these a4ts.
And although theacts of 1824 and 1828 removed the bar as it respected the United
States, yet, havin'g exdepted such lands as hd-been:sold or otherwise disposed of by the United States, and saved the rights ir title of adverse claimants, these acts protected a New Madrid claim which had been located whilst
the bar continued.
'bTy s case -was.brought-up from the Supreme.Cburt of Missouri,'
'by a writ of error issued under the.251h section of the Judiciary.gct
of 1789...
'It was an ejectment brought by Ganlble, the defendantin error.

against Barry, to recover possession.of a tract of land in St. Louis
county, Missouri.

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

.-8

B'irry v. Gamble.

The question was one of title. Gamble, the plaintiff below,
claimed under a grant issued to Baptiste Lafleur in conformity with
the New Madrid act passed in 1815, and Barry, under the title-of
Mackay, which was before the Supreme Court of the United States
in 1836, and is reported in: 10 Peters, 340. In the court below.the
parties entered an agreement up.on record; in the following words:
-" It is agreed thatthectitle of the-plaintiff (Gabible) to. the land in
the declaratioh mentioned, is the title under the patent issued to
Baptiste Lafleuir, or his legal representatives, and that the title of the
defendant (Barry) is .the, title under'the confirmation to the legal
representatives of James Mackay; ind if it shall be adjudged that
thepatent is a better title than the confirniation, then the plaintiff
shall recover the lana in the declaration mentioned; and if the confirmation shall be adjibbed the better title, then the defendant shall
have judgment"
On the 13th of September, 17993 Mackay presented. the following
petition:
"(To CDixles DehautDelassus,'lieutenant-colonel attached to the
'first regiment of Louisiana, and commander-in-chief of Upper
'Louisiana.
"James Mackay, commandant of St. Andre, of Missouri, being
established at the.Said village of St Andre, on the bank of the Missouri, but having the intention of establishing a habitation in the
neighbourhood' o Mr. Papin between St. Louis and the river Des
Peres, he prays you to grant him, in entire property, 800 arpents of
land, in superfices, bounded on the south by land of Mr..Papin and
Madame (widow) Chauteau; on the east by the lands of. the common field of Kiefeereau, l'Anglois Taillon, and others, at the Griat
Mai-ais; on the west by James McDaniel; and on the north and
northeast by the land of Mr. Cliouteau and the'domain of the king.
knowing the zeal and fidelity of the suppliant in ihe Service, he
JAMES MACKAY.
hopes this grace of your justice.
"St. Louis, 13th Bepkeizber, 1799."
On the next day, the following order was issued.
"St. Louis, of Iinois, 14th Spt. 1799.
"The'sutrveyor, Don Antonio Soulard, will put the interested party
in possession of the tract of land which he solicits by'liis.memorial;
which having done, he shall form a plat, delivering it to this party,
may serve to obtain 'the concession
and a certificate, in order that it.
and title in form from the senior intendant-general of these prbvinces,
to whom, by order df"his majesty, belongs particularly the distributing and granting of every class-of vacant lands.
"CAR..us DEHAuIT _Dw s
In Januar r, 180O, a grant was made to .Chouteau for the land
referred to in the preceding papers. This circumstance is comVOL. H1.-5

34

SUPREME

COURT.

Barry v. Gamble.

mented upon by the Supreme Court of the United States in the decision upon lackay's case, .10 Peters, 341.
On the 2d-of March, 1805, Congress passed aii qct "for ascertainino and adjusting the titles and claims to land -within the territory
of OrTeans and the district of Louisiana," the general purport of
which was to recognise all existing complete grants. It provided
for the appointment of three persons who should examine, and decide on, all claims submitted to them and report the result to the
secretary of the Treasury, who was directed to communicate it to
Congess. It further provided that all. papers relating to claims
shouIl" be delivered 'to the register or- recorder, on or before the 1st
of March, 1806, for the purpose of being recorded, and' declared
that, with- regard to, incomplete titles, any person who. should neglect
to deliver notice of his claim, or to cause the written evidence of it
to be recorded, should lose his right, and his claim should for ever
thereafter be barred.
.On the 21st of April, 1806, Congress passed an act supplementary
to the above, the 3d section of which extended the time for filing written evidences of'claims to the. 1st of January; 1807. It further enactedthat "the rights of suich yersons as should neglect so doing, within
the time then. limited; should be barred', -ahd the evidences 6f their
claims never after admitted as evidence."
Neither the concession or clai;n of Mackay was presented to, or
filed with the recorder or board of commissiohers, under Either of
these acts.
On the 17th, of February, 1815, Congress passed an act declaring
that any-person or persons owning lands in the county of New Madrid, in the Missouri territory, with the extent the said county had on
the-10th day of November, 1812, and whose lands had. been materially injured by earihquakes, should be and they were thereby authorized to locate'the like quantity of larid on any of the public lands
of said territory, the sale of which was authorized by law.
On the 30th-of Novbmber, 1815, a certiilbate was issued to Lafleur, by the United States recorder, Frederick Bates, authorizing
him to locate 640 acres on any of the public land of the territoi'y of"
Missouri, the sale of Which was authorized, by law.
On the 7th of July, 1817, Theodore Hunt filed a notice of loca*tion under said certificate, with the surveyor-generaL
In the fall of 1817, (as it' appeared upon the trial from the deposition of Joseph'C. Brown, deputy surveyor of the United States,) the
district embracing the land in question was surveyed under the authority of the United States, but the survey was not closed until the
spring of 1818.. 'The impression of the witness was, that the return
of the surveyor was made to the general land-office in 1820.
In April, 1818, the survey of Hunt's location was made by the
said Brown, who.placed it in township No. 45 north, .range No. 6
and 7 east. It called to begin at the. north-east comer of Papin's

* JANUARY TERM, 1845.
Barry v. Gamble.

survey, and ran ro=1ud several coqrses and distances, disregrding
the cardinal points, in a square form, and calling for the lines of
,other tracts as-boundaries.
On the 26th of April, 1822, Congess passed an act, directing
"that the locations heretofore made of warrants issued under the actof the 15th of Februar, 1815, (the New Madrid law,) if made in
pursuance of the provisions of ihat act in other respects, -shall bd
perfected into grants, in like manner as if they hail conformed to the
sectional or quarter. sectional lines of the public survey9." - The s&-.
cond section directed that those who located such warrants thereafter
should conform to the sectional and quarter sectional lines of the.
public surveys, as nearly as the quantities would admit.
On the 13th of June, 1823, the President df the United States
issued a proclamation, directing the public lands in.township No. 45
north, range No..6 and 7 east, (amongst other lands,) 'to be sold on
the third Monday of the ensuing Noyember. These ranges included
the land'in controversy.
On the• 20th of May, 1824, Congress passed an act ".enabling
the claimants to'lands within the limits of the state of-Missouri and
territory of Arkansas to institute proceedings to try the validity of
their claims." It allowed any persons claiming lands under old con-'
cessions or surveys, under certain circumstances, to present a petition
to the District Court of the state *of Missouri, which court vas authorized to give a decree in the matter, reviewable, if need be, by
-the Supreme Court df the United States. The 5th section provided
that a claim not brought before the District Court in two years, or
not prosecuted to final judgment in three years, should be for ever
barred both at law and in equity.. The eleventh section en'acted,
"that if in any case it should so happen that the lands, tenerients,'"
or hereditaments, decreed, to any'claimant under the -provisions of
this act, shall have been sold by the United States, or otherwise di posed of, or if the same shall not- have been heretofore located, in
each • and every such case it shall and may*be lawful for the party interested to enter, after the sam' shall have been offered at public
sale, the like quantity 6f lands, in parcels conformable to sectional
divisions and subdivisions, in any land-office in the state of Missouri," &c. &c.
.
On the 26th of May, 1826, an act was passed, continuing the
above act in force for two years.
On the 13th of June, 1827, a.patent was issued to Lafleur, and
his legal representatives, for the land included in the New Madrid
certificate, location, and survey.
On the 24th of May, 1828, another act of Congress was passed,
by which the act of 1824 was continued in force, for the purpose of
filing petitions, until the 26th day of May, 1829, and for the puxpos"
of adjudicating upon .the claims until the 26th day of May, 1830. "
Odi the 25th of May, 1829, Isabella Mackay, widow, and the chil

38

SUPREME COURT.
Barry v. Gamble.

dren and heirs of James Mackay, deceased, filed their petition in the
District Court of Missouri, praying for the confirmation of eight hundred arpents of land, referring to the-petition of Mackay, the concession and order, above set forth, as the foundation of the claim.
In February, 1830, -the Distl'ct Court decided against the claim.
In January, 1831, the heirs of Mackay filed a petition in the Supreme Court of the United States, stating that, by the act.of 1"824,
they were allowed a-year from-the rendition of the decree to'appeal
froma it, that the District Court of Missouri was closed on Ihe 26th of
May; 1830, and praying to be allowed the benefit of an appeal.
The, prayer was granted, and the cause came on fok hea-ingin 1836.
The decision is reported, as before stated, in 10 Petets, 240, by which
the decree of the District Court was reversed.
In 1837, Gamble, claiming title under Lafleur, brought an ejectpnent in the Circuit Court of the state of Missouri, for the county of
St. Louis, against Barry. The venue was changed to the county of
St. Charles, and afferwards to the county of Lincoln, where it was
tried, and on the 2d of September, 1840, the jury found a verdict
for the 'plaintiff.
In the mean time, to wit, on the 31st of March,- 1840, Mackay's
representatives- had obtained a patent from the United Stateh for the
land in controversy.
During the trial of the cause, the plaintiff asked the court to pive
to the jury the following instructions:
I "That the tidle to the premises, in the declaration mentioned, under
the patent to' Baptiste Lafleur, or his legal representatives, is a better
title in law th'an the title under the. confirmation to the legal representatives of James Mackay, deceased; and, therefore, the plaintiff in
this case is entitled, under the agieement of the parties, to recover the
possession of the land in the declaration mentioned;" which instruction
was-given by the court, and excepted to by the counsel'bf the defendant.
Tfie defendant, by his counsel, then asked the courtto give the
following instructions:
That, inasmuch as the- confirmation and patent given in evidence
by the defendant show the legal estate in the premises to be vested
in the widow and heirs of Mackay; and, inasmuch as the plaintiff
has not shoWv any title under said Mackay, or his representatives,
the defendant is entitled to a verdict;" which instructions the court
refused to give, and the defendant excepted to such refusal.
The case was carried to the Supreme Court of the state of Missouri, which, in September; 1842, affirmed the judgment of the court
hWow; and, to review that opinion, a writ of error brought the case
before the Supreme Court of the United States.
The cause was submitted upon prinied arguments, by Lawless for
the plaintiff in' error, and Spauldivg for the defendant in error.

JANUARY TRRM, 1846.
'Barry v.Gam-ble.

87

These arguments occupy nearly fifty pages in print, and the. Roporter
regrets that his limits wil not permit their insertion, in ext enso.
Lawless arguea that the power of the government of the United
States, after the cession of Louisiana, was not as great over incomplete titles to land as that of the King of Spain; and although it
imight be true that the latter possessed the power of recalling the
title and granting the land to another person, yet the government of
the United States was controlled by the treaty of cession, by the law
of nations, and by the Constitution and laws of the JJnited States.
The question presented to the officers of the'United States was not
whether the King of Spain could have arbitrarily annulled the grant
to Mackay, but whether, at the date of the treaty, it was not entitled,
under the laws and usages of the Spinish government, to be consummated and-clothed with the forms'of a complete title. He then proceeded
.cBut thus:
it was not merely complete titles that donstituted
property,
and proof of property, in land, under the French and Spanish
government inLouisiana. Those grants and orders of survey, made
b thelieutenant-governor of Upper Louisiana, of which the Supreme
ourt of Missouri speaks with such contempt, constituted property,
and imparted a right of property,.just as much, as a complete title
could do. This has been specifically laid down as law by the
Supreme Court of the United States. In every case, on appeal from
the United States District Court of Missouri, under the act of i824,
in which the decree of that court was reversed, and the claim confirmed, the Supreme Court of the United States based their confirmation on the ground that such a title created property, and, as such
was protected by the treaty. In.the case of Delassus v. The Unitel
States, and in this very case of Mackay's-Widow and Heirs v. The
United States, Chief Justice Marshall, who delivered the opinion of
the court, on this head is unambiguous and peremptory. ' In Delassus' case,' says the chief justice, 'the language of the treaty
excludes every idea of interfering with property-of transferring
lands which had been severed from the royal domain.' In Mackay's
case, the chief justice reiterates this doctrine; indeed, not only the
reasoned opinion of the Supreme Court of the United States in this
case, as reported in 9 Peters, treats the grant to Mackay as having
constituted property; and a title to the land described in it at the
date of the treaty, but the formal decree of the court, as the same is
set out on the present transcript, exhibits this ground of confirmation-,
The court, on turning to this decree, as spread on the transcript,
will find these words: I It isfurther ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the title of the petitioners to- the land described in this
petition to the District Court is vilid by the laves and treaty aforesaid, and the same is hereby confirmed as therein described, and
that the surveyor of the, public lands in Missouri be, and is hereby)
D

88

SUPREME COURT.'
Barry v. Gamble.

directed to survey the quantity of land claimed in the placedescribed
in the petition and grant, or concession.'
.
It is manifest, from the'terms of this formal decreq; that the
Supreme Court of the United States took a very different view of
the original title of Mackay from that which the Supreme Court of
Missouri has presented. I 'is difficult t6 conceive how the Supreme
Court of Missouri, with those 6pinions and the decree in favour of
Mackay before them, could have attributed to the grant to Mackay
such an unsubstantial and shadowy character, as not only to be
liable to be annulled by the order of an absolute king, but by the
arbitrary fiat of an intendant-general ai New Orleans; and it is still
more difficult to conceive how, with the' treaty before them, and the
decree of the Suprem Court based upon that .treaty, they could
have come to the conalusion that Mackay had no property in the
land described in his petition and concession at the date of the treaty.
"It is submitted, therefore, that the- Supreme Court of Missouri,
when they treat the grant to Mackay, and his title under it to the
land which it describes, as a something which.Congress "might, or
might not, as it best pleased them, ani ul or acknowledge, o nt
sufficiently respect the decisions of this high court, or do not understand them.
"We have already observed, that whatever might have been the
power of the Spanish king over the grant to Mackay, previous to its"
being perfected *into a complete title at New Orleans, the treaty of
cession, and transfer of the province of Lduisiana, for ever protected
the grantee from its arbitrary exercise, and that no power was imparted to Congress, other than that of confirming the grant if the*
treaty protected it, and which power has had its final action.
"But we must deny, with all due respect to the Siupreme Court of
Missouri, that, previous to the treaty of cession, the grant to Mackay,
and his right And title to the land described in-that grant; were so
entirely at the mercy of the government, be that government Spanish
or French, as the opinion of the Sulireme Court would intimate.
"The established fact, that Mackay's giant created a right of property, repels such a doctrine. It is true, that the Iing of Spain was,
in a political sense, and as contradistinguished from constitutional
sovereigns, an absolute monarch; but it is no less true, that in Spain
and her colonies the rights of property were religiously respected and
protected. The ' Recopilacion,' the Isiete partidas' under Spain;
the custom- of Paris, under the kings of France, were as protective
of private rights, as English or American law could-be, and perhaps
more so. When it is considered, that grants and orders of survey
in Upper Louisiana were disposed of and adjudicated upon as pro-perty; when the records of that province abundantly prove, that
property of this description was sold and transferre'd inter vivos, and
descended, and became distributable a6 intestato, and was the subject-matter of last wills and testaments, itwould seem to be a neces-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

89.

Barry v. Gamble.

sary consequence, that such property was protected by Iw., and that
the title to it was not at the mercy either of the King of Spain or the
First Consul of France, and still less of the intendant-general at New
Orleans.
.
"In every case (and few can be cited) in 'lwich laud, previously
granted by the authorities of Louisiana, has been conceded to a third
person, it will be found, either that the first grant was forfeited by
the non-performance of-a condition, or that the land included in it
was formally re-united to the royal domain. It will be seen, by reference to all the concessions and grants, even those which have been
consummated by the signature of thfe governor-general previous to
1798, or that of the intendant-general and assessor subsequent to
that year, that, so cautious was te goveniment and careful, in their
protection of private vested rights, there was unifetrly a proviso
or saving clause in each grant, declaring that it should-prejudice
nobody."
Lawless then argued, that Congress had-never intended to anrul
the grant to Mackay; that the 4th section of the act of 1805, and
5th section of the act of i807, did not include it, because they referred to, and operated upon, only such grants or.incoinplete titles
as bore dlate subsecuent to the 1st of October, 1800, whereas the
grant to Mackay was in September, 1799. And admitting, for the
sake of argument, that it was affected by those acts, yet the forfeiture.
was waived by the United States, and his claim placed on a perfect
level with every other by the acts of 1824, 1826, and 1828.
With regard to the opposing titles, under the New Madrid location, Mr: Lawless contended, that it was void, because laid upon
land which was not" public land," because it belonged to Mackay;
or, if it was public land, it was not land "the'sale of which had
been- authorized by law," and referred to the opinions of Mr. Wirt
and Mr.Butler in the 11 Opiniond of the Attorneys-General of the
United States," edited by Gilpin, pp. 263, 273) 1199; and thenproceeded thus:We have endeavoured to demonstrate, that the very Arst element,
thesubject-matter itself, of Lafleur's location was w ting; that the
land covered b his location was not public land, andnever has
been since the Tate of the grant of it to James Mackay, in 1799.
As to the second requisite, that the locatiprt should be made on
land, the sale of which wa authorized by law, the question presents
itself, by what law? The only law that regulated, at that time,
the sale of public land, was the act of February 15th, 1811, (2 Story's Laws, p. 1178.)
By the 10th section of thatact, the President of the United States.
is-authorized to' direct such'of the public landa as shall have been
surveyed to be offered for sale, with the exception,
1. Of sectioh No. 16 in each township";
2. Of.a tract reserved for'the -support of a seminary of learning;

40

SUPREME COURT.
Barry v. Gamble.

3. Of all salt springs, lead mines, and lands contiguous thereto;
4. Of all tracts of land, the claim to -which has been filed in-Aue
time, and according to law presented to the recorder, Poi the purpose of being investigated by the commissioners appointed for ascerthe territory
of Louisiclaiming
rightactof of
persons
taiing
thethe
the
styled, under
4th, in1812,"
Junelands
Congress,
ana: (by
new organization, the Territory of Missouri.)
It"must be conceded, that, under-this l0th.section of the act of
1811, the President had no authority to direct that any land should
manifestly,
inhibition
of this
object
thereof. that the system of
until
after thewas,
survey
be The
offered
for sale,
surveys should be fully established, and the sales and entries in the
land-offices should conform tQ the sectional divisions and sub divisions.
It is no less manifest, that another object in thus restricting the
power of the President was, to ascertain the precise location olthe
salt springs anti lead .mines in the territory of Missouri, and the
quantity of land c6ntiguous thereto, and ihich, for the working of
those mines, ought to be reserved from public sale.
It is .equally cear, that a respect for vested rights, and for the
reaty of cession, dictated the resepvation of lands included in claim
filed, under the requirements of the acts of Congress, in the office of
the United States recorder.
Now, it really seems difficult to comprehend on what principle a
New Madrid locator could treat, as land'authorized to be sold, and
as public land, that very land which the President of the Unitd
States was forbidden so to treat"
The -counsel for the plaintiff in error respectfully contends, (with
all deerence to the Supreme Court of Missouri,) that the exceptions
and'reservations, and conditions as to surveys in the 10th section of
the act of 1811, are, and were, very g6od and wise provisions, and
that a location, such as that under Baptiste Lafleur, being maae in
total disregard and violation of those enactments, is not an irregularity merely, but an absolute nullity.
The effort by the Supreme Court of Missouri to cure the original
defects of the location by the operation of the act of 1822, has been
ilready commented on, and the fallacy of the reasoning, it is Jaopedi
"established. That act certainly did not cure the defect of a location
on a salt spring, or a lead mine, or a sixteenth section, still less upon
private property.
It may be that the act of 1822 was concocted and intended to effect' such impolitic and iniquitous results, but, fortunately, the terms
of that act do not justify such adu application of its provisions, and
certainly the intention-of those who applied for and obtained its passage is entitled to no consideration.
A proclalation by the President of the. Inited. States was not issued till. 1823, and of course no sale of lanas till that year took

JANUAIRY TERM., 1845.

41

Barry v. Gamble.

place in Misiouri. The surveys were not returned till. 1822. It
was impossible that the President could have known what lands he
should direct to be sold until those surveys were returned aid examined, and approved at Washington city.
It was under-the 3d-section of the act of-17th of February, 1818,
that the-President directed thq lands in the district of St. Louis to be
offered-for sale. That law did-not, in anyrespect, aflect the exceptions and reservations in the 10th section of the act of 1811. The
3d section of the above act of 1818 provides, that whenever a landoffice shall have been established in any of the "I districts for the
land-office" created by the 1st section, the President shall be authorized to dii-ect so much of the lands, lying in such district as shall
have been surveyed according- to law, to be offered for sale, with
the same reservations and exceptions, and on the same terms and
conditions, in every respect, -as-was provided by the 10th section of
the act of 1811.
Thus, it may not oplybe contended, that, notwithstanding the act
of 1811, the President was not empowered to direct a sale until after
the passage of the act of 1818, which created the machinery of sale,
and. portioned out-Missouri into "land districts."
.There was no law for the sale of the'land in.the St..Loub district
at all in force at the date of t e location by Hunt, under-Lafleur, to
wit, on the 1'7th of July, 1817. There was, at.-th~t time, -in existence, neither a St. Louis land district, -nor a St. Louis land-office,
nor, as has been shown, any public survey rade according to law.
The land in Missouri (at least in that region of it in.which Mackay.s.
grant is lorcated) was, on the 17th of July, 1817, in the same state
as on the date of. the last private survey made under th Spanish
and American governments respectively.
How, then, can it be successfully argued, that a location thus premature-thus, not-only not authorized, but in. direct violation of two
acts of- Congress, was only an "irregularity."
The case 6f Lindsay and others v. Lessee -of Miller,. 6- Peters, 672, and. the case
of Jackson v. Clark and others, 1 Peters, 628, have, it is submnitted, no bearing or analogy-to the case now before this court.
In 'those cases the question arose on a survey, which was manifestly only irregular from the want of certain technical formalities. The surveys, when made, were made on land which lawfully
could have been surveyed. . The surveys were not absolutely void,
and the Supreme Court 6f the United States therefore decided that
the act of 1807 protected them, and that no location of a.Virgiia
military warrant under that act could lawfullk be made upon land
which had previously been so surveyed.

If there had been a law specifically prohibiting such surveys, or if

they had been made-on land not by law susceptble of such surveys,.
no doubt they would have been void, and the Virginia military warrant would have-been well laid upon them.
VOL. I.-6
D2

4

SUPREME COURT.
Barry v. Gamble.

It may be observed, also, that those s1urveys, though irregular,
were made officially, and were based on a substantial legal right in
the person for whom they were made; whereas the New Madrid
location in the-present case was, as has been shown, an ex parte private act "of an interested individual, who had no other colour of
claim to the land, and was entirely -at his own risk. If such a location be declared valid, the locator must necessarily have exe'cTsed,
in his own case, a high judicial function, namely, the construction of
an act of Congress, and not only that, but the functions of a jury of
twelve men on a question of fact, and of a witness to prove the fact.
1st. The "locator" construed the words in the act of 1816,
"public land, the sale of whiph-is authorized by law," to mean land
whiph, though not at the date of his location authorized, as public land, to be sold, might, thereafter, by possibility, be "authorized to
be sold."
2d. The locator assumed the fact, that land which his location
called for was "publicland."
3d. The locator assumed the. fact, that the land located by him
contained neither salt spring nor lead mine, nor was "contiguous"
to a salt spring or lead mine.
4th. The locator assumed the fact, that when the public surveys
should be made, the land would certainly not include, or interfere
with; the sixteenth section.
5th. That it would not interfere with seminary land.
6th. That his location would cover no land included in a Spanish
or French grant, or.order of survey.
This would have been a portentous power, indeed, to vest even
in the New Madrid sufferer; how much moreproductive of injustice
.and spoliation, if imparted to a New Madrid speculator!
The counsel for the plaintiff in error, therefore, -in conclusion,
submits-1st. That the title to .the specific land in dispute is protected by
the treaty of cession, and could only be affected or divested by judicial action;
2d. That the title of James Mackay.and his heirs has been confirmed by the Supreme Court, because of its original validity, and its
beinof protected and guaraniied by the treaty of cession;
31'. That previous to the confirmation of the.grant to Mackay, the
land included in it has never been re-annexed to the royal domain, or
to the public land of the United States;
4th. That the location by Hunt 'ad Lafleur, on the 17th.July,
1817, was not merely "irregular," but.was absolutely void.
5th. That Congress has not given, nor could, give, by any.retoactive law, validity as against a vested right to a location void ab

inio;
6th. That the acts of Congress of 2d March, 1805, section 4, and
of March 3d, 1807; section 5, have-no operation on the grant to

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

48

Barry v. Gamble.

Mackay, inasmuch as this grant bears date previous to the 1st October, 1800;
7th. That, even if the acts of 1805 and 1807 bore on the grant to
James Mackay, the acts of Congress of 1824, and the acts in amendment and continuation of that, have remitted Mackay and his heirs to
all their original right and title;
8th. That the patent, given in evidence by the defendant in error,
having been shown to'be based on a void location, is itself void at law
and in equity;
9th. That the patentr,.having been issued in the year 1827, and
pending the prote.tive action of the law of 1824, as respects French
and Spanish claimants and grantees, the patentee and his assigns are
bound to that act as by a lis.pendens;
10th. That the protest filed in the office of the surveyor-general at
St. Louis, by the agent of the widow and heirs of James Mackay,
being three years before the date of the patent under Lafleur, is notice to Lafleur and his legal representatives of the claim and grant of'
Mackay;
11th. That the confirmation, by the Supreme Court, of the grant
to James Mackay, and the patent in pursuance of that decree, which
has been issued to the confirmees, constitute a full and' conclusive
proof of title to the land in dispute, and therefore ought to prevail
against the location under Lafleur, and the patent issued and based

upon it; and
12th. That the judgment and opinion of the Supreme Court of
Missouri, being against-a right and title protected by treaty, and specially set up and claimed under a treaty and a decree of the Supreme'
Court of the United States, ought to be reversed,
Sauding,for the defendant in. error, stated the case; commented
on the nature of. an incorfplete title, with the power of the government over it, and proceeded thus:-"
The position, then, which I assume in relation to the title set up
by the plaintiff in error is, that uhder the operation -of different acts'
of Congress, the negligence of Mackay, the holder, has eEtinguished
the claim. Applying the provisions of these acts of Congress to the
title set up by the plaintiff in error, it is manifest that Mackay's
claim was barred, .byhis own negligence, when the title of Lafleur
.was initiated, and up to the time it was completed by the patent.
The 1st section of the act of 1805, (2 Story's Laws United States,
966,) provides for the-confirmation of incomplete titles bearing date
prior to the 1st of Oct6ber, 1800; the 2d section makes grants to
settlers who had- made improvements by permission- of the Spanish
officers; the 4th section auth~rizes those who held land by complete
titles, and requires every person who claimed land, either by the 1st
section of the act, under an order of survey, dated prior to October,
1800, -r under the 2d section, by a settlement under permiission of

44

SUPR.EME COURT.
Barry

. Gambi~le.

the Spanish officers, orby any incomllete title dated subsequent to
the 1st day of October, 1800, to file, before the 1st day of March,
'1806, with the recorder, a notice in witing, stating the nature and
extent of his claim, togethei with a plat of the tract claimed; and
further required that he shbuld, on or before that day, .deliver to the
said recorder, for the purpose of being recorded, every grant, order
of survey, deed, conveyance, or o her written evidenceof his claim:
then, by the proviso to this section, a failure to givd the riotice, or
-t Y-bord 'the evidence of title, is made a'bar to the claim, and the
dociiinents which should have been recorded ar& never to, be
received in evidence against a grant from the Uited States.
The 4th section of the act.of 18075 (2 Story's Laws United"States,
1060,) extends the jurisdiction of the commissioners to all claims to
land in their district, where the claim is made by a person who was
an inhabitant of Louisiana, &c:, and authorizes the commissioners
to decide according to the laws.jand established usages and customs
of the French and Spanish governneats,' upon 'all*such claims.
This section extends the time for filing notices of the claims- and
written evidences of claims, to the Ist- day of July,. 180, and de-.
clares that the rights of such persons as shall neglect to do so vithin
the time limited by the act, shall, so far as they are derived from or
founded upon any act of Congress, ever after be barred, and'become
void, and the evidences of their claims shall never after be admitted as evidence in any court of law or equity whatever.
This last section extends the jurisdiction to all descriptions of'
claims, and gives the utmost latitude to the c6mmissioners in seeking
the'rule by which the claims ae ho be confirned, while, at the same
time, it is just as imperative as the former law, in requiring the
exhibition of the claim and the recording of the written evidence of
title. So, the 7th sedtion of the act of 13th June, 1812,.(2 Story's
Laws, 1260,) contains provisions which have the same effet upon
claims and evidences of title not filed and recorded before the 1st
of December of that'year, declaring that the evidence of the claims
shall never be admitted against any grant from'the United States.
This "cotirthas fully considered these actsin the -case of Strother
v. Lucas, -12 Peters, 448, and, remarking. generaly upon their
provisions, the court says-" Congress, well aware of the state of
the country and villages, wisely and justly went to the extent perhaps of their powers, in providing for the security'of private rights,
by directing all claimants to file- their claims before a board especially appointed to adjust and settle afl conflicting claims to lands.
They had in view another important object, to ascertain what belonged to the~lnitedStates, so that sales could be safely"made, the
c6untry settled in peace, and dormant titl6§ not he permitted either
to disturb ancient possessions, or to give to their holders the valuable
improvements made by purchasers,. or the sites, of cities which had
been built up. by their enterprise. Accordingly, we find 'that, by"

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

45

Barry v. Gamble.

various acts, the -time of filing such claims is limited, after which
they are declared void, as far as they depend on~any act of Congress, and shall not be received in evidence in any cour, against
any person claiming by a grant from the United States.
"These are laws analogous to. acts of limitatiori for recording
deeds, or giving effect to the awards of commissioners, for settling
claims to land under the laws of the states; the .time and manner
of their operation, and the exceptions to. them, depend on the
sound discretion- of .the legislature, -according to the nature of
,the titles, the situation of th6 country, and the emergency which
calls for their enactment. Redsons. of sound policy have led to the
general adoption of laws of both: descriptions, and, their validity
cannot be questioned.. Cases may occur where the provisions-of a
law may be such as td -call for the interposition of the courts, but
these under consideration *do not. They have been uniformly approved by this court, and ought -to be considered- as settled rules of
decision, in all cases to which they apply."The court -th~n, in applying these laws to a title as old as 1787,
at page 454, says-" We must, then, take t1'e defendant as one
bolding the premises in 8ontroversy by a grant from the United
States, and, -as their grahtee, entitled -to- all the protection. of the
laws -appropriate to the-case."-" Thi plaitiff, therefore, is brought
within the two provisions of the laws ;'that by Madame Chiancellier
not having filed her claim within the time limited by law, she could
not set up any claim, under any act of Congress, or be,permitted to
give any evidence thereof in any court, against a person having a
grant- from -the Uniited Sfates, under the - cohfirmation -of the cornmissioners and the -act of 1812."
In the case now before the court, we have an exemplification of,
the very evils .which the Court, in .the case of Strother*v. Luca ,
considered these acts.of Congress designed to prevent. We have
a man pointing out aportion of un6ccupied waste la:d, as public
land, liable to be appropriated bythe location of a New Madrid
certificates and 4ftei it has been so appropriated and patented -by
the government, wd have a claim sit up, by the heirs of'thatbInan,
.under a dormant title, which had been held back, notwithstanding
the imperat 4 e provisiois of'these acts of Congres, and stating, on
the face of their petition, that it had never been predented to any of
the tribunals established for the-investio-ation of such titles.
Had the claim of Mackay been"exhiited and recorded as the acts
of Congress required, then the ,10th section of the act of 3d March,
1811, ( Story,- 1200j) w6uld'have expressly reserved -the land from
sale, unti the final action of Congress upon the claim, and.a person
attempting to appropriate it, by the lod'gtion, of a NewMadrid-certificate, would have acted with notice that such claim existed; but,
as it was- not so recorded, there .was no evidence upon any landreeord of the country that such claim existed; and the land now

46

SUPREME COURT.
Barry v. Gamble.

claimed appeared to every person who could have access to these
records, to be iacnt public land, subject to any disposition which
could lawfully be made of any part of the public domain.
(Spauldingthen proceeded to comment upon the acts of 1824 and
1828, and particularly upon those 'clauses-which saved the rights of
adverse parties; after which he. took up the title of Lafleur under
the New Madrid grant, and argued thus:)
The plaintiff in error, having given in evidence a notice.or application made by Theodore Hunf, for the location of the certificate of
Lafleur upon the land inrquestiori, "dated in July, 1817, and a sur-.
vey made by a deputy surveyor, in April, 1818, with the proclamation 'f the .President for the sale of the land in the township, to take
place in October, 1823, objects to the title of the .defendant in error,
on the followiing grounds:--lst, Thit, at the time of the location,
the land-was not public land; 2d, khat, if it was public land, the
.raleof it was not authorized by law, and therefore it was not subject
to location.
The first objection of the plaintiff in error, that, at the)ime of the
location, the land located-was not public. lfind, subject to be located,
is based upon the assumption that it wgs Mackay's land, -and involves the consideration of the argument made against the title of
Mackay.' If,by the .operation of the different acts of Congress,
Mackay's negligen68 had barred his claim, and shut out his evidence
of title -from the consideration of courts of justice, the land was in
every sense pulblic land, su'bject to such disposition as the governm'ent might think proper to make of it. To say it was still his land;as a&a the overnment andOthe grantees of the government, is to
assert that his title 'emained valid, notwithgtandin enactmefits which
anrulled it, on account of his'neglect to comply with the requiremen*
of law. It.is unnecessary further to pursue the answer to this 6bjection.of the plaintiff in error.
The second objection, upon which most stress is laid, is, that-at
.the time of the location, this land was not of the description liable ta
location-that is, land the sale of which was authorized by law.
It may be of importance to determine, if we can, from the evidence
in this case, when the location was mnade.
The- plaintiff in error has fallen into the mistake of suTpposing that
the notice or application for the location, made in July, 1817, is the
location'itself. - This error might have been avoided' by an examination 6f the decision made by this court in Bagnell and others v. Brbderick, 13 Peters, 436. In that case, the court held, that this noticeor application forms no. part of the title, and is not part of the evidence on which the general land-office acted. but the patent issued
on the plat -ard-certificate bf the surveyor,'returned to the recorder's
"office, and wvhich was by himi reported to. the general land-office.
Again, the court'says:-." The ofily evidence of-the location recog-

-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

47

Barry v. Gamble.

nised by the government as an appropriation, was the plat and certificate of the surveyor."
As the notice or application is not the location, we next look to
.the.survey spread on the record: this is dated in April, 1818, as the
time when the deputy surveyor of the United States made the survey
on the ground,.but when this survey was returned to the.office of the
surveyor-general, or *hen it was approved., in that office, does not
'appear, and especially it does not anywhere appear .on the record
when the surveyor-general returned to the recorder of land-titles the
plat'with the notice, designating the tract located, as required by the
2d section of the act, nor wheh the recorder issued'the patent certi*ficate under the 3d section.
In this state of the evidence, it cannot be known whether the survey made-by the -deputy surveyor, although dated in April, 1818,
.was returned, or, if returned, was approved in.the office of the surveyor-general, at any time interior to the'proclamation by the Presi-.
dent for the sale of the land in the township.
It appears, by inspection of the survey given in evidence, that it
was made after the public surveys lad established the townships, &c.,
as it describes the land as situated in two townships. The question,
therefore, which the plaintiff in error has'attempted to raise, is not
presented by the record. But it is not my purpose to avoid the discussion of the question, if w. can really get it into a tangible. form.'
The. question, if I have understood the argument made in behalf
of the plaintiff in error, is, whether the patent issued to Lafleur is not
void, because the survey was made for him at a time when the sale
of the land was not authorized by law?
If we turn again to the language of the act, we find that the words
upon *hich most sttess is laid--"the sale of which is authorized by
w---are used asidescriptive of the landto be located, and have no
reference to tiine. If there were, then, classes of lands which, bylaw,
were reserved fr~om'sale so that no officer of the government could,
without' a violation of law, attempt to sell them, and there were other
public lands in relation to which the executive of the United States
was alreacty intrusted, by law, with the power to -direct the survey
and sale, so that no farther authority was needed, we have the key to
the right undei.tafding of the words employed in the act of 1815.
The act of 3d March, 1811, 2 Story, 1197, is that which. directs
the sale of the public lanids, and makes the reservations from sale. it
is upon this act, and upon those which establish land-offices in different parts bf Missouri, and refer to this for the direction of the different offices, that the sales of land in Missouri have taken place.
The 8th section of this act empowers the President to direct the
rveyor-general to cause the public lands in the ferritory of Louisiana
to be surveyed.
The 10th section empowers the President to direct the land, when
surveyed, to be offered for sale, and prescribes the duties of the dif-

48

-SUPREME COURT.
Barry v. Gamble.

ferent officers, 'when the President has -designated the days Qf sale.
This section reserves from'sale-L--st, section number 16 ini
each town-ship; 2d, a tract for the support of a seminary of learning; 3d, salt
.springs and lead mines, and lands contigu6us thereto; 4th; by the
proviso "to the section, f no tract shall be offered for sale, the claim to
'which has been -in due time, eid 'according to Jaw, presented to the
-recorder of land-titles in'the dist4ict of Louisiana, and fildd in his office, for the purpose of being investigat.d -bythe commissioners ap
pointed.for ascertainin the rights of persons claiming lands
i the
f Lcamn
tin
theseto
territory of Louisiana.'
This section atorzs
authorize'the sale lansi
of the mas
of public-landand forbid the sale of-particular descriptions of land.:
we have, tien4 the division of the land into the two classes-thdse
the sale of whi6his authorized, and -those-the sale of 'which is'not
authorized; and the.act of 1815 aulhorize lbcations to be made on
lands of one class, 'and not on lands of the.other.
This construction is farther sustained by the designation'of land,
subject to,the lboation, in the present tense: "the sale of which is
anuthorized-by'law.." . In 1815, when this ,law was passed, a very
large portion 6f -the land,in the territory of Missouri had not been
surveyed,
so 'that
if athepre-requisite
intention.of toCongress
was to make'a
'of
"tle public
lands
legal locations,
by the survey
use of
thes e words, then, as it was e identlydesighed to give a range for
-these4ocations as extensive as the teiiitoryj
the .anguage employed,
instead of being "the sale ofwhie]h is authorized by law,"'would
have~been, the sale of whishh is or. hereafter shall be authorized by
law.
act speaks
authority then. existing b~y
law fr )he sale.
of As
the the
public
land, of
it the
evidently
excludes, the.idea that
the sale 'as
only authorized~when the 'President had issued his proclamation-for
the sale:forfor
that-time
1?resident
had never issued any proclamation
anyat sale
in the the
terrtory
of Missour.
The other .interpretation of these wordls will, as I belleve,be -considered as expressing the meaning of Co'n~ess; that is, that they reFer
two and
classestheof other
land,was
one exress*y,
of wlucli wasthen
authorized by
I~w b
to the
be sold,
by law,.reserved
from
sale.

.am aware that great reliace has been placed on the .official
opinions
of
Wirt, when he was attomey-general,sr.given in rlalion to these-locations, and alsouppn the opinion of Mr. Butler3 given
upon this very claim~of Mackay,after its confrmaion, and upon the
opposing
were,
ny, gentlemen e~ainent in the
profession, claim.
whose These
opinions'
are, eet
entitled
to high consideration, but
still they are not conclusive authority.
,
I have but a sgle re ark to -make upon Mr. Butler's opinion,
'and th
that he is totally mistaken as to a cardi fact in the
tase. He assunies that Mackay's clhm was filed and recorded according. to law, o that the land'was expressly reserved from sale by.

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

49

Barry v. Gamble.

the 10th section of the act of 1811, and that therefore it was not
subject to location. Now, if Mr. Butler*had read the petition on
which the confirmation was procured, he would have seen it there
stated, that the claim had never been fltd nor recorded according to
law, and that, therefore, the land was not only by law public ld,
but that it was not, and never had been, reserved from sale.
On the opinion of Mr. Wirt, I have to'remark, that he appears to
have fallen into the -mistakeof supposing, that the notice. or applica,
lion of the parry'for a location was the location its-f, and. to have
directed his arguments chiefly against that. instrument. It istrue,'
that Mr. Wirt argues against surVeys made under New madid cei
tificates which did not'conform to-the lines of the public surveys;
but it is to be observed, that this conformity to the public surveys is
nowhere required'in the -law which regulates these locations;,.and
although it may be very convenient, and be'very consistent -with the
gener purposes of the gqvemment, in maintinng regular subdivisions of the public lands, it is-nowliere required as necessary to the
validity -ofa lccatiom
The effect produced by the opinions of Mr. Wirt was the passage
of the act of 26th April, 1822, 3 Story, 1841, .which directed, that
locations made under these certificates, if made in purisuance'of the
provisions of the act of 1815 in other respects, should be perfected
into grants, in like manner as if they had conformed to the sectional
or quarter-sectional lines of the public surveys, and the sales of the
fractions made by such locations should be as valid against the
United States as if 1he fractions had been made by rivers or other
natural obstructions.
The great argument of Mr. Wirt againkt the lbcations. which were
.made before the public surveys was, that they would not conform to
the legal subdivision of the public lands, when they should be surveyed, and thus -confusion would be introduced into the system.
Now, this act of 1822 takes the location as made, and the confusion
,as. exiting; and directs the'issuing of patents, notwithstanding this
.want of conformity to the lines dfl.sections.
Yet it 'is argued,. that because this act ratifies the locations which
do not conform, to the public surveys, only when they are, in other
-xespects, in pursuance of the act of 1815, the objectio4 still is to b&
made, that they were made on land which was not siurveyed, and
-the sale of which was consequently not authorized by law.
'This is only coming- back again to the discussion of what lands
were authorized to be sold; which, I think I have shown, was all
mot reserved from sale. It is beyond dispute that the land in controversy was not reservbd from sale.
But what is the real extent of the objection we are considering?
It is this: applications were made to locate portions of the public
lands before the public surveys; locations -have been so made, and
they do not conform to the sectional lines, when they have been.
R
VOL. I1.-7

- "Barryv.Gamble.

aflerwaW run. The act-of Congress declares that this shall'be no"
objection to the locations, $retit is agreed now, that although the act
has waived all -objection to the result produced, -it still-retains the
objection to the cause Ivhich produced it; so.that, substantially, the
act has accomplished nothing, and the United States, although they
have sbld'the surrounding actions, and have waived all objection
to.the-Want of conformityn the location to-sectional lines, and tave
•patented the-land as locatedj- naystill,.iin- all cases where the applications were made -before the public -surveys, come in and claim
the land; or, that an infruder or, trespasser on the land' whidh the
government has thua patented, may show that the application'for the
location of the land was this- made before the-public" surveys, and
set up the pretence that tlid'patent is void.
'This ease would presenit some most remarkable features; ifsuch.
aiiobjection c6uld 'prevail, "
Here is an application'for the locajion'of a tract of land, bounded
on three sides by known Spanish. surveys, and to run to a"point in
the line of another Spanish. survey. The oily.new line to be run is
thit on one side, 'which is necessa'y to-fix the quantity. A suivey
is made under that a] pli'atibn calling for the.townships and ranges,
which shows that the survey was not made before ffie-Unted States*
surveys. A -patent is issued by .the gqvernment, and in a suit
brought by a-purchaser. under that-patent it.
is objected, not that-the
land was-reserved from sale-not that locatiof -could have been-differently made if th-e government surveys had been. a -thousand times
run-not .that it does not coiform to'boundariesw-iich wouid have
fixed its limits whenever it ight have been made, (seeing" that it is
bounded on'three sides by established -Spanish surveys,) butthat the
fiplication was made prior to the public surveys, therefore-the application was void, and the. survey was void, anh the location was void,
and the patent wvas void, and but for Mackay's confirmation$ the land
would be mere *vacant, 'una"pprop iate-d land; and though an owner
of part of the land, under the Lieur patent, has been more than
twenty years in possession' unded t&ie title of Lafleur, he-has all ihe
time been a mere trespasser!
The- cases in which thee validity of patents hhve been-examined in
suits af law, are too familiar to- the tourt.to need any extended-remarka
from the counsel.. From the .ase of Polk's Lessed v. Wendell,
to the present-time, the principles upon -which patents have been adjudged void, have been 'wheie the 'tate has'not had title to the landgranted; -here the officer had no authorityto issue it; where the
rand has been appropriated by-a'speciesof title which could not by
law appropriate it; where the atent has issued against some express
prohibition of law, or. for laUd-reserved'froin the disposition of-it attempted by the patent. The patent- to Lafleur, is within neither-of
these classes. The whore of the -objections now made to it would
be -answered to the satisfaction of the plaitiff in error, if the deputy

JANUARY TEUM, 84.

1

-Barry v. Gamble.

surveyorin 1823 had run 'around the amie lines which.were,=n in
1818, and then ha sat down and made precisely thesame-plat, and
the same field-notes. And how is it known, that he did not?- The
purchaser under Lafleur'ave no evi'eide abaut a survey.. The-surve,.of 1818 was given m evidence fo-i.,peach'the patent; the patent itself implies that all was done wbichwas necessary.to'its being
regularly issued.
I really feel that I would,be tiling with *e "courtto-make a more
extended argument in the- case.
The proposiions I maintain are the following:1. That hpon this record *he Mackay title cofamences, as agtinst
the deendant in error, with the confirmation, as no document is
shown anterior to that confirfiatin; and the confirmalion does not,
.as against the'defpndait in error .etablish the existence of any prior
claim-

2. That if thi exiktice of a genuine Spanish order of survey
should be assumed,.a4aist the defendant n ere-, all claim under
it was barred by the aets of Congres..
" 3. That if the. existence of such order of. survey should be assumed,'wheth er -the 6laiq in&r it were barrea or iot, the confirmation of the claim'is, by the act under which it was obtained, expressly postponed to the Lafieur title.
.4. That .ihe.patfnt of Lafleur ii the better-legal ttle, unless there
"
is some defect tht.renders the.patent void.
ah6ve.exception, -regular, and ef5. That the Lafleur title. fis
fectual.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the op nion of the c6uft.
The first question in order' is, whether -the patent io Lafleur-I .8
valid'titfle as oainst the United State,, when standing alonei.
By the e ca of the recorder of land-titles- at St. Louis;Laflep.*
'was entitled to 640"acres of-land in compensation for lands of his
injured by the earthquak' in New Madrid county. - On this, the
survey of April, 1815, is founded. Its return by the :surveyor, ivh
a notice of lbcatioh, to the office of thd recorder, was the first appropriation of-the land; and not the -notice to the surveydr-general's
bffice.requesting the survey to be made, as this-court held in.Bag-nell v. Broderick, 13 Peters; 450..
Township 45, in which the land .grantedto Lafleur lies, was laid
off into sections in 1817, and 1818; and we .suppose -before &e
survey for Lpfleur was made, as his pateit, and the. survey -an
which the patent is founded both refer to the towishil by numbut
as including the land. When the return of the township- survey was
made to the surveyor-general's office 'does 'not distinctly appear,
although it is probable it was after -Lafleur's location had been made
with the recorder.
The location was in irregular form, and altogether disregarded.the

SUPREME COURT.
)Barry v. Gamble.

section lines, and ordinary modes of enfry under the laws of the
United States. • This circumstbice lies at the bbttom of the controversy. The general land-office at Washington' refused to issue a.
patent on New Madrid locations thus surveyed. The secretary ofthe Treasury on the 11th of May, 1820, and. again on the 19th of
June, 1820, called on the attorney-general for his opinion on the
validity of such locations, (2 Land-Laws- and Opinions, 9, 10,) this
officer replied-" That the authority given is, to make these locations on any of the public lands of the territory, the sale of which is
authorized by law; but the sale is not authorized by law until the
sectional lines are run, and- consequently all locations previously
made by these sufferers are unauthorized."
To cure this defect, the act of 1822 was passed, whigh provides,
that locations made before that time, under the.act of 1815, if made
in pursuance of the act in other respects, should be peirfected into
grants in like manner as if they had conformed to the sectional and
quarter-sectional lines of the public surveys ; and ithat the fractions
previously created by such locations should be deemed ligal:fractions, subject to sale: But that after the passing of the act, (26th
April, 1822,) no location of a New Madrid claim should be permitted that did not conform to-the sectional and quarter-sectional lines.
The opinion of the attorney-general appears to havebeen favourabl
to locations in conformity to the public surveys actually made, befor&
their return; until returned however, and received at the surveyorgeneral's office, they could not be recognised as legal puiblic survey9;
and in this sense Congress obviously acted- on the -opinion,- and
course of the general and-office, in pursuance of it. The principal difficulties standing in the way of issting patents,
seem to have been the following: There were New Madrid locations
made on lands not then surveyed; locations -made after the lands
had been surveyed, but before the surveys were returned; and.loca.tions made on lands surveyedi and the surveys -returned; in each
case, disregardful of the section lines. But all of them were on
lands that had been surveyed, and the surveys" duly returned and
sanctioned, when the act of- 1822 was passed. - On.this state of facts
Congress acted. No distinction was made among the claimants ;
all fractions created by prior locations, in existing public surveys,
were declared. legal, and subject to sale; the -fractiong prod~ced,
could not be legal unless the locations producing them were equally
so: In this rspet, therefore, such locations were binding on the
United States from the date of the act. It is insisted, however, that
until setion No: 45 had been offered for sale by the proclamaion of
the President,-no entry could be made on it by a New Madrid war- rant; and i this respect Lafleur's location was void before, and not
-cured by, the act of 1822, but expresslyexcepted: that Congress only
acted on one defect, that of disregarding the sectional lines,and-excluded all others. Township No. 45 was frst advertised for sale in 1823.
-

JANUARY TERM, 84W.
Barry v. Gamble.

In addition to-what has been said in answer to the argument,.it
may be remarked, that- the New Madrid. sufferers were preferred
cldmants; like others having a legal preference, they had a right'to
buy, so soon as'the officers of the government had by lawthe power
to sell; and sales could be made founded on public survys. It
could. not have been intended by Congress that the sufferer should
surrender his injured claim, get his warrant fromthe'recordei, andthen be compelled to wait-until after the public sale, which might
sweep all the lands out of which he could obtain a new home. A31d.
so the act of 1815 was construed and acted on at the geneql landoffice. No objection seems to have been made there on the ground
that these claims had been entered on lands not previously offered
for sale at auction; as the President might, or might ,iot 6rder the
sale. We think this plainly inferrible from the following -order.
On the 9th of April, 1818, an act was passed limiting applications
to the recorder, for New Madrid warants of survey, to the 1st of
January, 1819. The comilissioner of the land-office here, wrote to
the recorder at St. Louis, enclosing a copy of the act, a few days.
lfter it was passed, saying:
"This act authorizes the reception of claims'to the 1st of Janiary
next; but as'several public sales will take place previous to that day,
you must not issue any patent certificates to those claimahts after the
commencemeht of such sales, unles the claimant produce,- a certificate from the register of the land-office-to show that the land has not
been sold. Should you issue any patent certificate to thos6 claimants previous to -the public sales, you will furnish the register of the
land-office for the district in Which the lands lie with a list of the
tracts for which you have issued patent certificates, that he may
reserve them from sale."
The 3d section of the act of 1815 makes it the duty of the recorder
to deliver to the claimant a'certificate stating the circumstances of the.
case; that is, that the claim had been allowed, surveyed, and recorded in due form, and that he was entitled to a patent for the tract designated: this was to be filed with the recorder if satisfa6tory to theclaimant. Then the recbrder was boulid to issue the "patent certificate," above spoken of, in favour of the party, which, being trans-.
mitted to the commissioner of the'general land-office, entited the
claimant to a patent from the United States.
By the foregoing instructions, patent certificates, previous to the
public sales, were dontemplated as due to claimants-for lands entered
but not previously offered. for sale; 'and we cannot doubt did existr
in large numbers. They, of course, weke sanctioned at the landoffice. Nor is, the consideration of this quesion presented to this
court for the first time. Pettier's ..claim, in the case of Stoddard v.
Chambers, 2 Howy. R. 317, was like this in all its features except
one. It had been located on the same land covered by Bell's concession made by the Spanish government, which had been filed-and
m.2

54

SUPREME COUR ,
Barry v. Gamble.

recorded in 1808, but not recommended for confirmation by the commissioners at St. Louis, for want of occupation and cultivation. By
the act of 1811, until the decision of Cofigress was had, the land
covered by the Spanish claim could not be offered for sale, and this
restriction was cbntinued. Pettier's New Madrid location was made
in 1818, -on the land reserved -from sale in favour of Bell's.concession, and this court held the N(w Madrid locatioA, and the patent
founded on it, void, because the sale of the land "1was not authorized
by law," and the title of Pettier in violation of the act of 1815. But
the cofirt says:-" Had the entry been. made or the patent issued
after the 20th of May, 1829, -when 'the reservation ceased, and be,
fore itwas revived by the act of 1832, the title of the. defendant
could not be contested;"
For the reasons assigned, the court was of opinion 'Pettier's claim
would have been valid, had Stoddard's not been interposed. It also
lies in township No. 45. So our opinion is, that Lafiepr's claim was
rendered valid by the act of 1822, unless it can be overthrown by
the interposition of Mackay's.
. 2. This raises the inquiry into its validity in opposition to Lafleur's.
That, standing alone, Mackay's.was valid agans the United Stites,
isin effect decided by this court in Pollard v. Kibbe, 14 Peters,
355, and Pollard v. -Files, 2 How. 601, and is free from doubt.
Lafleur's location-was made in 1818, and his patent issued in
1827. Mackay's claim was first fired 'for adjudication before the
District Court (U. S.) of Missouri in-1829. Up to this date it had
stood as an incomplete claim, requiring confirmation by this govern,
ment before the title could pass from the United States; to accomplish which a decree in its favoiir was sought in-the District Court,
and finally obtained'here on appeal; in conformity to whi6h a patent
was obtained.
A s the, proceeding under the act of 1824 was ex parte, L~fieur
was not bound by it any f rther than the legislation of Congress affected his rights; and'the question'is, how far were they.protected,
as against' incomplete titles brought before the District Court.
By the act of March 2d, 1805, sec. 4, certain French and Spanish

claimants were directedon or before'the 1st day of March, 1806, to
deliver to the register of the lad-office, or recorder of land-titles,
within whose district the land might e, every grant, order of survey,
deed, conveyance, or other written evidence of0
claim, to be recorded
in books kept for the purpose. "And if," says the act, "such person shall neglect .to deliver such notice in writing of his claim,
or
rc all his right,
written evidenco of the same,
cause to be recorded
so
farbecome
as the same
derived
ifrom'
the twor first sections of shall
this act,
any
thereafte
ir ever
void, isand
shall
incomplete grant, warrant, order of-survey, deed of conveyance, or
other written evidence, which shall n6t be recorded as above directed,, ever after be considered or admitted as -evidence, in any

JANUARY TERM
D .1845.
Barry v. Gamble.

court of the United States, against any grant derivedfrom the United
States."
By the act of April 21, 1806, sec. 3, supplemental to the act of
1805, the time for filing notices of claims and the evidence thereof,
was extended to the first day of January, 1807: but the rights of
such persons as shall neglect so doing within the time limited by the
act, it, was declared should be barred, and the evidence of their
claims never after be admitted as evidence; in the same manner as
lhad been provided by the 4th section of the act to which that was a
supplement.
By the 5th section of the act of March 3, 1807, further time for
filing notices aiid evidences of claims was given fill the 1st day of
July, 1808: But all benefit was cut off from the claimant, if he
failed to give.notice of his claim, and file his title papers; so far as
the acts of Congress operated in giving the title any sanction through
the agency of commissioners-arid ever after the first of July, 1808)
the claim was barred.
J
It is insisted, however, Mackay's claim is not embraced by the
act of 1805, and. to which the acts of 1806 and 1807 refer. The
act of 1805 does govern the future legislation, interposing a, bar.
By section 4, French or Spanish grants made and completed before
the 1st day of October, 1800, might, or might not, be filed ; -as the
treaty of 1803 confirmed them, they needed no further aid: But
complete grants issued after the 1st- day of October, 1800-and
incomplete titles, beaving date after that time, " shallbe filed," says
the act. Mackay's claim is of neither description; it was an incomplete title';, being a permit to settle and warant of survey, without
any settlement or survey having been made; but dated before the
1st of October,.1800. "
The act of 1805, section 4, further provids, that every person
claiming lands by virtue of the two first sections of that ct, should,
by the 1st day of 4arch, 1806, fie his notice of claim, title papers,
&c., otherwise the 6laim should be barred. Mackay's claim "was
a duly r'eistered warrant of survey," within the words of the 1st
.section of the act. That'the United States had the power to pass
such'a law we think free from doubt; it being analogous to an
ordinary act of limitation, as this court held in Strother v. Lucas,
12 Peters, 448, to which nothing need be added here.
As to the United States, and. all persons claiming under them,
Mackay's claim stood barred 'from the 1st of July, 1808, until the
passing of the act of 'May 26, 1824, by which'the bar was removed
so far as the government was concerned. The time for filing claims
under this -adt was -extended by another passed in 1826, and again
by that of May 24, 1828, to the 26th day of May, 1829; before. the
expiration of which time Mackay's claim was filed in the District
Court (U. S.) of Missouri, andeventually confirmed in this court on
appeal: And the question is, did the acts of 1824, and 1828, and

56

SUPREME COUlT.
Barry v. Gamble.

the proceeding had under them, affect Lafleur's title. By the 11th
section of the act of 1824, it is provided, "That if m any ca se it
shall so happen, that the lands, tenements, or hereditnents decreed
to any claimant under the provisions of this act, shall have been sold.
by the United States, or otherwise disposed of, it shall be lawful for
the party interested to enter the like quantity of lands, in parcels
conformable to sectional divisions and sub-divisions, in any landoffice in the state of Missouri."
The act of 1828, to continue in force the act of 1824 for a limited
time, and to amend the same, declares (in -section 2)-" That the
confirmations had by virtue of said act, and the 'patents issued
thereon, shall operate only as a relinquishment of titleon part of the
United States, and shall no wise affect the right or title, either in law
or equity, of adverse claimants of the same land."
The foregoing are the conditions on which the bar was removed;
these Congress certainly had -right to impose, and thereby give a
preference to an intervening title acquired during the existence of
the bar.
Lafleur was a claimant with a good title in ejuity,. when. the act
of 1824 was passed; this he well might perfect into a patent, as his
equity was expressly protected by the -act of 1828, and by implica.
tion in that of 1824, (section 11 ;) neither the patent or entry was
affected by the proceedings had on Mackay's oclaim inthe District
Court of Missouri, and in this court; nor by his patent issued pursuant thereto: It follbws Lafleur's is the better title, and that the
decision bf-the Supreme Court of Missouri must be affirmed.
Mr. Justice McKINLEY.
I dissent from the opinion of the majority of the court, in this
case, for the following reasons:
First. According to the act of the 17th of February, 1815, chap.
198, "persons owning lands in the county of New Madrid, in the
Missouri territory, with the extent the said county had on the 10th
day of NQvember, 1812, and whose lands have been materially
injured by earthquakes, shall be, and they are hereby authorized to
locate the like. quantity of land on any of the public lands of said
territory, the sale of which is authorized by law." Thesection lines
of the land had not been run on the 7th of July, 1817, when the
location on the New Madrid certificate, under 'Which Gamble claims,
-was made. The sale of the land, including this location, was not
authorized by law', until the year 1823. 'The 1st section of the act
of the 26th April, 1822, chap. 40, could not have legalized the location, because the land was not then subject to sale; and because
that section only authorized grants to issue in like manner, as if'the
location had conformed to the sectional or quarter-sectional lines of
the public surveys, if made in other respects, in pursuance of the act
of the 17th of February, 1815. Now as the location had not been

JANUARY TERM, I846.
Dickson v. Wilkinson.

57

made in pursuance of that act; -and.as the 2d section of the act of
the 26th of April, 1822, declared ".That hereafter the holders and
locators of such warrants shall be bound, in locating them, to conform to the sectional and quarter-secti6nal lines of the public surveys,
as nearly as the respective quantities of the warrants 'will admit, and
all such warrants shall be located within one .year after the passage
of this act; in default whereof the same shall be -null and void;"
and as no location and survey were made in conformity with the 2d
section, the warrant, survey, and patent, are utterly void. See
Lindsey v. Miller, 6 Peters, 675.
, Secondly. The decree confirming the claim of Mackay's heirs, by
the Supreme Court of the United States, under the treaty, was a full
and ample admissi~, that. the United States had no right to the land
covered by that claim. The title which they acquired to this land,,
under the treaty, was, therefore, held'by them in trust for Mackay's
heirs, or any other person having a better title, under -the treaty.
The decree of confirmation related back to the date of the concession, by the Spanish governmenti to Mackay, and made the title as
complete as if it had been completed by that government before the
treaty, notwithstanding the several intervening acts of limitation
passed by.Congress.
Thirdly. The location, survey, and patent, under which Gamble
claimed, being void, the 11th section of the act of the 96th of May,
1824, chap. 173, did not apply to this case. Because, in the language of the section, it did not "so happeil that the land" had
been sold or otherwise disposed of by the United States. Therefore, Mackay's.heirs, or those claiming under them, were not authorized, and much less bound to enter other land in lieu of that
confirmed and granted. to them by the decree and patent.
Mr. Justice STORY and Mr. Justi~e WAYtN concur in these reasons.

JAJs .N. AND LEVi DicKsoN, PLARTrrs, v. WnxLiUs H. WMEJINsON,
ADMINISTRATOR' Or

oHN T. WILKINSON, DECEASED.

There was a judgment against an administrator of assets quando accidrint.
Upon this judgment a scirefaciaswas issued, containing an averment that goods,
chattels, and assets had come to the hands of the defendant.
Upon this scire fadas there was a judgment by default; execution was issued,
and returned ",nu!ls bona."
A scire facias was then accorded against the administrator, to show cause why
the plaintiffs should not have execution "de bonispropriis."
ft was then too late to plead that the'averment in the first scirefadas did not
state that assets had come into the hands of the administrator subsequent to
the judgment quando.
A jbdgment by default against an executor or administrator, is an admission of
.assets to the extent charged in the proceeding against him.

VoL. IL-8

