110

SUPREME. C.O URT.
Swartwotkt v. Gihon et aL.

was re-afhmed in the case of the UnitedStates v. 112 casks of
sugar, 8 Peters, 277, and again in 10 Peters, 151, in the case of
Elliott v. Swartwout. It follows that the duty upon cotton baggifig
must be considered as imposed upon those articles only which were
known and understood as such in commerce in the year 1832, when
the law was passed'imposing the duty.
In the case before us, the Circuit Court followed the rule of construction above stated, afid it has been followed'also in every circuit
where the question has arisen. The judgment is therefore affirmed.

SAMUEL SWARTWOuT, PLAiNTrIF IN EnROR, V.

JoHN

GxNON ET. AL.

When an importer.means tQ contest the payment of duties, it is not necessary.
for him to give a v*ritten notice thereof to the collector.
The question of notice is a fact for the jury, and it makes no difference, for the
purposes for which it is required, whether it is written or verbal.
:THufacts in this case are sufficiently set forth,in the following
opinion.
Mr. Chief Justice *TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before the'court upon a writ of error directed to
the Circuit Court for the southern district of New York. The action
was brought by the defendants in error against the plaintiff to recover
back certain sums of money paid to him as duties on brown linens,
imported into New York in 1836, 'of which port he was 'at that time
the collector. Some of these duties were paid under protest in
writing, and some without any written protest or, notice, but evidence was offered for the purpose ofcshowing thatthe defendants in
error verbally notified the cbltector that the duties charged on all of
these goods would be contested. The goods in question, *ere unbleached linens, and had been charged with duty as.coloured; and
the jury found a verdict against the colU&tor for the amount claimed.
At the trial' the court instructed the jury that a written notice 6f
the objections .to pay the. duties was not necessary, and that it was
* sufficient if a verbal notice was brought home to the collector; but
that the jury.must be satisfied that such notice was brought home
to him. To ,this direction the plaintiff in error ,excepted; and it
is upon this p6int only that the dase comes before this couit.
The only object of the notice was to yarn the collector thaf the
party meant to hold him personally ibsponsible for the -money,
whether he paid it over or not. It was. a question for the jury to
'decide whether notice'was oi was not given;, and it could make no
'difference, for the purposes for which it 7was equired, whether it was
Written or verbal. We think the charge of the court was clearly
rright, and the judgment is therefore affirmed.

