JANUAItY TERM, 1845.

133

Gordon v. Appeal Tax Co-urt

The foregoing answers apply also to the points upon whinih. the
judges were divided in opinion upon the bill in. chancery, betwdeii
the United States and thq defendant Gear, except the fourth question,'
certified in that case; and to that'we reply;- that digginfg lead ore

from the lead mines upon the public lands in the United States, is
such a Waste as entitles the United .States to a writ of'injunctionto
restrain it.

[For the dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice McLn.tr, see App. p. 78 9 .]

SAMUEL GoRDoN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V.

THE AprlA

TAx COURT.

JAKsS CHEsTON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. TaE A.&PAL TAx COURT..
The charter of a bank is a'francliise, which Is not taxable, as such, if a price
has been paid for it, which the legislature accepted. But the corporate property of the banlk is separable from te franchise,ad may
be thxed, unless there is a special agreement to the contrary.
The legislature of Maryland, in 1821, continued the charters of several banki
to 1845, upon condition,-that they would.make a road and pay aschool ta
This would have exempted- their franchise, but not their property, from taxation.
But another clause in-the law- provided, that upon any of the' aforesaid banks
accepting of and complying with the terms and conditions of the hct,.the faith
- of the state was pleaged not to impose'any-further tax or burden upon them
during the continuance of their charters under the act
This was a contract relating to something beyond the franchise, and exempted.
the stoekholders from a tax levied upon them as individuals, according to the
amount of their stock.

TnEsE were kindred cases brought up by writ of error from the
Court of Appeals of die state ofMaryland, under the 25th sectioi of
the Judiciary Act of 1789.
The first case depended upon the constitutionality of a tax imposed
by the legislature of Maryland in 1841, it l&ing alleged to be i&
violation of a contract made by the legislature in 1821; and the

second depended upon the same circumstance5 with.the addition-that
.the plaitiff in error was-entitled to the benefit of the same contract,

by virtue of an act of the General Assembly, passed in 1834.
The facts in the case were thes:

At November session, .1804, the legislature of Maryland incorporated the Union Bank of Maryland.

Samuel Gordon, the plaintiff

in error in the first casd, was, at the institittipn of .the suit.below,'.a

stockholder in this bank.

No bonns was required to be. paid to the

state, but five "housand shareswer6 reserved for the use and benefit

of the state of Maryland, to.be subscribed for by the*state, when -desired by the legislature thereof. The chartr was to last until 1816.
At the session of -1812.the tegilatu~eawed .lact, entitled "An

act to incorporate a company t6 make a turnpiMe road' leading to
Cumberland, and for the extension of the charters of the several

M

"

134

SUPREME COURT.
Gordon v. Appeal Tax Cour.

banks in this state, and for other purposes." It proposed io extend
the charters of the banks to 1835, upon condition, that they would
subscribe for as much stock as would raise a fqnd necessary and sufficient to finish and complete the road, and upon the further condition, should bind themselves to pay into the Treasury the sum of
$20,000 for each and every year that the charters should continue)
the fund being pledged for. the support of comhion schools.
The.12th section was as follows: ,
"That upon any of the banks in this state' complying with the
conditions of this act, the faith of the state is hereby wedged not to
impose any further tax or bonus on the said banks dring the continuafion of their charters under this act."
This act was not accepted by any of the banks.
At the session of 1813, the legislature passed another act, which
was entitled a supplement to the aforegoing. The 1st section incorporated a company to inake. the road. The second was as follows:
"And for the purpose of raising a fund to make and complete said
road: Be it enacted, That the charters of the several banks, &c.,
shall be, and they are hereby continued and extended to the 1st day
of January, 1835, and to the end of the session of the General Assembly next thereafter, upon condition of the said everal banks subscribing, in proportion to their respective- capitals actually paid in
at the time of such subscriptions, for as .muchstock as is necessary
and sufficient to finish and complete said road," &c., &c.
The 7th section enacted, that every bank should pay annually into the Treasury the sum of twenty cents on every hundred dollars'
of the c.apital stock actually paid in; and if this were neglected for
six months after it was due, the bank"so neglecting should forfeit its
'charter.
The 8th section continued the charters of such banks as complied
with the act until 1835.
The 11th-section ran thus: "That upon any of the aforesaid banks
accepting of and- cbmplying with the terms and conditions of this
act, the fhith of the state is hereby pledged not to impose any further
tax or burden upon them during the continuance of -their charters
under. this -act; and in case of the acceptance of and compliance
with the provisions-of this act by the several banks hereby reqhired'
to make the aforementioned road, the faith of the state is further
solemnly pledged, to the several existing banks in the city of Baltimore, not to grant a charter of incorporation to any other banking
institution to'be established in the city or precincts of Baltimore be.fore the 1st day of January, 1835."
At the session of 1815, an act was passed, 11 declaring the continuation and extension ,of the charters of the several bals therein
mentioned2' It recited' that several banks, and amongst them the
Union Bank, had accepted the act of 1813, and then declared, that
their charters were extended to 1835.,

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

135

Gordon v. Appeal Tax Court.
At the session of 182l,-another act was passed,'entitled "An act
to incorporate a company to make a turnpike road from Boonsborougli
to Hagerstown, and for the extension of the charters of the several
The prebanks in the city of Baltimore, and for other purposes."
amble was as follows: "1Whereas it isto the interest of the state that
a turnpike road should be made, leading fiom Boonsborough to
Haaerstown, in Washington county, and it is represented to the
legislature, that the banks hereinafter mentioned ae willing to make,
the same, if an extension of their severalcharters be granted to them,
as they were heretofore extended by an act entitled a supplement to
the act entitled, an act to incorporate a company to make a turnpike
road, leading to Cumberland, and for the extension of the chalters
of the several banks in the city of Baltimore, aad for other purposes,
passed at December session, 1813: Therefore, Be it enacted," &c..
The 1st section incorporated a company to make the road.
The 2d section was as follows: "And for the purpose of raising
a fund to make and complete said road, Be it enacted, That, the
charters of the several banks aforesaid shall be, and they are hereby,
continued and extended to the 1st day of January,' 1845, upon condition of the said several banks subscribing, in proportion to their
respective capitals actually paid in at the time of such subscriptions,
for as much stock as is necessary and sufficient to finish and complete said road," &c.
The 6th section was as follows: "1That if the said company shall not
commence the making of the said turnpike road within two years
from the passage of this act, and shall not complete the same in four
years thereafter, the right of the said company to the said road shall
revert to the state of Maryland, aid the charters of the said banks are
hereby declared not to be continued or extended by virtue of this act."
The 7th section enacted, that the banks should annually pay to
the treasurer the sum of twenty cents on every hundred dollars of
the capital stock of each bank actually .paid in; and in case of neglect, the bank was to forfeit its charter.
The 8th section renewed and continued the charters of the complying banks until 1845 and the session of the General Assembly
next thereafter.
The 11th section -was as follows: "That upon any of the aforesaid banks accepting of and complying with the terms and condi-"
tions of this act, the faith of the state is hereby pledged not to impose any further tax or burden upon them during the continuance
of their charters under this act; and in case of 'the acceptance of and
compliance with the provisions of this act by the several banks hereby required to make the aforementioned road, the faith of the state is
further pledged, to the aforesaid banks in the city of Baltimore, not
to grant a charter of incorporation to any other banking institution
to be established in the city or precincts of Baltimore before the 1st
day of January, 1845."

136

SUPREME COURT.
Gordo.n v. Appeal Tax" Court.

-

The 12h section was as follows: "That the'said banks, specified
in the 7th section of this act,. should they elect so to do, 'shall be,
and they are'hereby, exempt from the payment of the arinual tax
hereby imposed, upori condition of their paying to the treasurer of
the Western Shore of Maryland, on or before the 1st day of January,
1-823,-the sum of $100,000, to be appropriated in the manner here-in before provided for."
The Union Bank, as was admitted in the court below, duly accepted and complied with the terms and conditions of this-ct of 1821.
At the session of the legislature of December, 1834, an act was
passed (chap. 274) to "extend the -charters of several banks in the
city of Baltimore," by which, amongst other enactments, the chartern
of the Union Bank was extended to the end of the year 1859, It
introduced some new provisions into the charter, required the payment of the school tax and a proportionate share of $75,000; but
contained no stipulation like that of the 11th section of the act of 1821.
At the session of December, 1835, the Farmers' and Planters'
Bank was incorporated. It was required to pay a bonus and schoor
tax, but the charter contained no exemption from taxation.
At the same session, viz., December, 1835, an act (chap. 142)
was passed, reciting that whereas, by the 11th section of the act of
1821, the faith of the *statewas pledged not to impose any further
tax dr burden upon certain banks, and it was equitable that other
banks should stand on equal footing, and enacting that the faith of
the state Was pledged not to impose any further or other tax on banks
incorporated since the year .1821- than might be ,imposed on the
banks which had complied with the terms of that act.
The 3d section was as follows: "And b6 it enacted, That in the
said act of 1821, it was not, nor is it now, the -intention of the General Asseuiibly of Maryland, to exempt from taxation and equitable
contribution-to the common burdens for state purposes, the property,
stock, or dividends, severally held in or derived from any bank n
this state, by any person or persons whatever;. but that the trae intent and- meaning of the pledge given by the -said act of Assembly
was, to' limit the taxation upon the franchisis only of the banks therein mentioned."
InApril, 1841, an act w'as passed "for the gtneral valuation and
assessment of property in this state, and to provide a tAx.to pay the
debts of the state." It directed, - amongst other things, that "all
stocks or ihares owned. by residents of this state in any bank, institution, or company incorporated in. any o her state or territory: all
stocks. or shares in any bank, institution, or company incorporated
by this state," &c., should be.assessed, and a tax imposed upon this
and all-other species of property, of twenty cents, or one-fifth of one
per cent. on every hundred dollars of isses~able property. It also
provided for an Appeal Tax Court, whose decisions should be carried to thd Court of Appeals.

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

187

Gordon v. Appeal Tax Court.

In the trial of the bause in the Court of Appeals, the following
agreement was filed:"It is agreed, that the appellant banks, to wit, the Union Bank
of Maryland, the Bank of Baltimore, the Mechanics' Bank of Baltimore, the Commercial and Farmers' Bank of Baltimore, the. Marine .
Bank of Baltimore, and the Farmers' and Merchants' Bank.of Baltimore, commonly called the old banks, were chartered jprevious to
the year 1821; and that the new banks, t6 wit, the Merchants' Bank
of Baltimore, the Farmers' and Planters' Bank of Baltimore, the Citizens' Bank of Baltimore, and the Western Bank of Baltimore, were
chartered since the year 1830; the respective periods of the incorporation of all the aforegoing banks appearing by reference to their
charters.
"It is admitted, thct the old banks have duly accepted and complied with the terms and conditions of the act of .1821, chap. 131,
the manner of which acceptance appears by the paper marked A,
herewith filed; and have also accepted and complied with the provisions of the act of 1834, chap. 274: and it is also admitted, that
taxes have always, since the incorporation of said banks, been levied
and assessed upon their real and personal property in all the cites
and counties of this state, in the same manner as upon-property of
the same kind belonging to individuals, and that said taxes have always been .paid by said banks up to this time. And it is further
admitted, that said banks did not, at the time of the enactment of the
act of 1841, chap. 23, nor have they at, any time since, paid or reI
deemed their notes or other obligations in specie."
The Court of Appeals decided, that the tax imposed by the act
of 1841 was not a violation of the contract between the state and the
banks, which was effected under the act of 1821, and to review this
opinion the writ of error was brought.
Meredith and Dulan1, for the plaintiffs in error.
V'elson, attorney-general, and Seele, for the defendants.
In the case of Samuel Gordon, the -counsel for the plaintiff in error contended,
I
1. That the Union Bank of Maryland having accepted of and
coiaplied with the terms and conditions of the act of 1821, chap.
131, a contract -was created by the 11th section thereof, on the part
of the state, "not to impose an further tax or burden upon said
bank during" the continuance of its charter under the 8th section of
said act; and that this exemption from taxation extended to all the
prbperty of said bank, real and personal.
2. That the 1st and 45th sections of the act of 1841, rhap. 23, imposed upon the said bank "a further tax and burden," in violation
of the said contract, and was therefore void as against the provisions
of the Constitution of the United States.

And in the case of James Cheston, plaintiff in error, v. the Appeal
M2
VOL. I1.-18

138

SUPREME COURT.
Gordon v. Appeal Tam Court.

Tax Court, who was a stockholder in the Farmers' and Planters'
Bank of Baltimore, one of the new banks chartered since 1830, the
counsel for said Cheston contended,
That if the aforesaid assessment law of 1841, so far as it imposes
a further tax upon the stockholders of the old banks, should be declared void for its repugnance to the Constitution of the United
States, then, that it is equally void, so far as it imposes an additional
tax upon James Cheston, a stockholder of one of the new banks, as
it thereby deprives the new banks of the immunity from further taxation granted to them -bythe 1st section of the act of 1835, chap.
142, which immunity is itself a franchise, granted for a valuable
consideration. and cannot, therefore, be taken away.
Dulany, for the plaintiffs in error, said, that he would not stop to
cite authorities to show, that the law was void, if it impaired the ob,ligation of a contract, but would refer to two cases which were analogous to the present: 7 Cranch, 154; 4 Peters, 561.
He then entered into a detailed examination of the charter of the
Union Bank with-its several supplements, and asked the court to
compare the 11th section of the act of 1821 with the act of 1841,
and he thought it would be found, that the latter took away what the
former gave. It was admitted, that there was an exemption of some
kind in the act of 1821, and the only question in the case was, what
kind of exemption was it?
In Dwarris on Statutes, 51, 9 Law Library, it was said, that every
word of a statute must have its effect; that it was better to observe
what the legisliture said than what they are supposed to have meant.
Apply this to the paragraph, coupled with the doctrine that in Maryland property is not taxed, but persons are. 1 Maxcy's Laws, 12,
Declara.ion of Rights, article 13, shows this. The exemption was
then a pledge given to a person, viz., the bank. Why should it be
limited, as contended for by the opposite side, to an exoneration of
the franchise merely from taxation? The construction ought to be
in favour of the banks, because it was the intention of the legislature
to invite them to accept the law. If you narrow it down now, it is
not the spirit in which the offer was made. It is easy to see what
that spirit was. The two objects of promoting internal improvement
and fostering public schools were great public objects, and it was
very desirable to encourage them without resorting to direct taxation.
The banks were the invited party, and the act was to be laid bWiore
the stockholders for approval or rejection. Of course, the terms
would be closely looked at. The proposition was, that no "further"
tax should be imposed. The word "further" refers to the preceding section, in which the tax for the road and schools is provided.
It is true, that the act of 1841 imposed a tax upon the property; but
the tax for road and schools fell upon the very same property, and,
as it happened, was of just the same amount. A further tax of the

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

139

Gordon v. Appeal Tax Cotrt.
same character was meant. The object to which the money is to be
applied makes no difference in the character of the tax. The clause
is clear in itself, and we are not to look to the preamble, as a guide
to intention, unless there is some ambiguity. Dwarris on Stat. 19.
Ahd if we look to the preamble, it will not enlighten us, because it
only refers to the road, without saying any thing about schools. If
the exemption related only to the franchise, it was worth nothing,
because whether the tax should be laid on the franchise or the property of the bank, the same people would pay it in either case. The
legislature could have derived the same amount by taxing froperty
as if they taxed the franchise; and to hold, that they were at liberty
to do so, of course, renders the. exemption of the franchise worthless.
There are two decisions upon similar words: 2 Harrison, 78, 79,,
80; 7 Dana, 342.
True, the banks have heretofore paid taxes upon their real property, but the amount was trifling, and the stock was not taxed as'
now. Besides, their cbnsent does not furnish a rule by which we
are to construe the law.
It is said, on the other side, that the contract of exemption was
made with the 15ank and not the stockholders; and by the act of
1841 only the latter aie taxed. But what is a corporation? Onl r
the union of certain persons, with power to sue, &c. 4 Peters, 552;
Angell & Ames on Corp. 1, 3, 5.
The name is only the legislative baptism of the stockholders.
Natural persons are the substratum of the corporation; they receive
all its benefits. They pay the taxes, and yet we are told, that a contract for the benefit of the corporation does not reach them. They
were the persons who accepted the law in a general meeting, and
not the bank, actifig. as a corporation. What is the difference between taxing them in the gross and taxing them individually?.
As to the case of Cheston. He is a stockholder of the Farmers'
and Planters' Bank, one of what are called the new banks, chartered in 1836. The act of March, 1836, chap. 142, puts these on
the same footing with the old banks. The 3d section, it is true,
says that the exemption relates only to franchises; but the legislature had no right to deprive, by law, the banks of a benefit which
they had already acquired under a contract. And the words "without 4 iolation," &c., show that the legislature did not intend to take
away any such benefit.
The tax of 1841 clashes with the exemption. It is laid on every
thing which constitutes the property of the bank, because in a schedule every thing, even the franchise, goes to make up the aggregate
value of the stock, and the tax is laid on the cash value of the stock.
By the 17th section, the asgessors are directed to value it at the
market price. But the market price is governed by the value of
all the differint species of property held by the bank, including even
the franchise, because a purchaser looks at all these, when about to

140

SUPREME, GOURT.
Gordon. v. Appeal Tax Court.

invest. It is impossible to separate that portion of the tax which
falls upon the franchise, and as the legislature has covered the whole,
the entire tas" must fall.
Steete, for the defendants in error, contended,
1. That the contract between the State of Maryland and' the
'Union Bank. of Maryland, created by the act of. 1821[, chap. 1315
and continued by.the act of 1834, chap. 214, exempted fiom-taxation,. not the property-of said bank, ifor the shares of its stock in the
hands of individual stockholders, but its .corporate franchises, and
their exercise dtiring the continuance of its charter. * .
2. That the taximposed by the act of 1841, chap.. 23, bbing a
tax uponhe shares of stock owaed by individual stockholders, was
not a violation of the cpntract between the state and the bank, and
was, therefore, not unconstitutional.
In the case of James Cheston, a tax was imposed, and assessed
under the ame act of 1841, chap.. 23, on the shares of stockbwned
by the plaintiff in -error in the Farmers' and Planters' Bank of Baltimore-a baik chartered since 1830,and not iicluded in the provisions of the act of 1821, chap. 131, and the act'of 1834, chap. 274.
In this case, the cou isel for the defendant in error contended,
That the plaintiff in error was entitled to no immunity from taxation upoh his shares of stock in said Farnners' and Plahters' Bank of
Baltimore, either under the acts of Assembly, herein before mentioned, or under the act of 1835, chap. 142.-"
Mr. teele said, the Appeal Tax Court is -the nominal defendant
only the real one is the state ofMaryland. The act of 1841, chap. 33,
is a general tax upon -all property; not on banks alone, but every species.of property: The Court of Appealsdecided that it did not conflict
with the act of 1821. Is it not a rule that this court will adopt a
state's construction of its own.laws?
In this case it is not correct to construe the contract favourably to
the banks. On the.contrary, the rule is to construe strictlyanyprovision which imposes a limit upon the taxing power. 4 Peters, 503,
Prov. Bank v. Billings. I1 Peters, 546-5485 carries the rile still
further.,
Such a rule is nece8sary to protect the community from improvident legislation. Another rule is, that where there are two constructions, that one is adopted which will producethe' least injury. It
has been said that our construction, exempting franchises only, renders the whole nugatory, because the franchises would .have been
safe from taxation without such exemption. But not so. Being the
creatures of law, they are peculiarly appropriate for the tdxing power.
4 Wheat. 699; 12 Mass. 252; 4 Peters, 526.
A charter makes a bank a person to carry on a business; but it
must be carried on in the same way that other persons do. Suppose
a pre-existing law had taxed banks, would a subsequent charter have

JANUAftY TERM, "1845.

141

Gordon v. Appeal Tax Court

been exempt? "No-because the laws would not conflict with each
other. Nor do they conflict when the charter is passed first.It has been said that the exemption is clear. But the section itself refers to the preced ing part of the law, and the legislature, twice,
-in 1835 and 1841; put the same con.truction on it that we do. The
7ti section and all preceding ones provide for an extension of charters. It was right to exempt the franchises, because the legislature
was dealing with that subject; but why shouldthey go beyond that,
and-exempt private property to an extent that they were-not aware of?
The stat6 was not in want of jnoney., nor was there a motive in the
banks to purchase such an exemption as that contended for. No one
then anticipated'what ha since come to pass; Taxes were ight,
and always paid., The act of 1813 contains the same- clause, when
there did not exist any system of taxation. Up to 1841, th" state
had naver taxed bank stock or chdses in action, and the taxes upon
real or other property-did not amount to the fourth pait of 20 cents.
A proposition,-therefore, to exempt stock which-had nei.er been taxed
at all, upon the payment of four times the amoimt which other property paid, would have been considered'i strange one. The tax of
20 cents must have been imposed upon the franchise. The compensation'for extending the charters -was thdt the banks would make
the road, and for future exemptidn of -the frandhise -was that they
sould pay 20 cents towtards theschoolfiiid. The word "further"
means aiother tax like that one; and if the tax imposed was upon.
the franchise, a further one upon the same thing was all-that was in:tended to -be prohibited.
Look at the cotemporaneous expositio" of the law by both parties.
Counhty and city taxes were paid by the banks; and not. only so, but
a small state tax, levied in 1822 upon: refi. property, was paid by
them also, Other banks were incorporated in 1833, 1834, and 1835 ,
which pay the 20 cents; without any thing being granted excepfthe
charter.* The act of 1835. gi:Ves the new. banks an'exemption ipon "
the franchise, and nothing MQre. In the "case in .2 Harrison, the
words were "further or other tax." Eiemptioris have, been strictly
construed. 11 Johns. 77; 8 Term R. 46. .The penalty for not
paying the'.20 cents, shows upon what the tax was imposed, for
it provides tfiat the charter shall cease if the tax is not paid. It was
:therefore a bonus for the charter.
But suppose that the contrabt was made as contended for by the
other side. By their own showing, it was made *ith.thebank as a
person, and the inividual stockliolddrs cannot.avail themselves of it.
If the corporation were to- purch se a house, onie of. the 'members
could not claim an-interest in the purichase. They have an interest
-which is distinct from that of he.'corporation, because'they may-sue
it, or sue each other. If the contract hre be not'to.taY the bank, it
is not equivalent to an agreembnt not to tax the stockhcdlders. The
difference is shown by. suppos-hig the tax to be laid before the bank
-

142

SUPREME COURT.
Gordon v. Appeal Tax Court.

commenced operations, and laid afterwards. In the first case, it
Would diminish the capital of the bank, but in the latter it would not
If the individual stockholders cai claim the benefit of the exemption,
they must also be liable lo the state for the payment of the tax which
is the price of the exemption. But if Samuel Gordon were sued for
the 20 cents stipulated in the act, no one can suppose that he would
be bound to pay it. The difference between taxing banks and stockholders is shown in 1 Nott & McCord, 527; 4 Wheat. 436; 2 Peters, 459; 2 Bayly, 654, 672, 683.
Who pays the tax of 1841 ? If the bank does not, there is
no violation of the contract with the bank, and the bank dbes not,
in fact, pay it.
As to Cheston's case and the new banks, it has been said that
.they are on the same footing as the old. The best reply to this is
to read the law. The legislature expressly say, that they intend tb
exempt only the franchises.
N)elson, attorney-general, on same side.
There are two propositions to be examined:
1. The nature of the contract of 1821.
2. Whether the act of 1821 was in force at all in 1841.
1. We admit there was a contract in 1821, and that it is , otected by this court. But what is its nature and extent? 'he
original charter, of the Union Bank contained no exempfion, and,
therefore, according to the doctrine in the Providenqe Bank v.Billings, the state could tax it. The charter was passed in 1804, and
contained no clause imposing a school-tax. But this might have
-been'imposed at any time after the charter, without asking the consent of the bank. The only point upon which the assent of the
bank was required, in any subsequent legislation, was that its
charter should be continued. It was to expire in 1816. In 1812
an act was passed proposing to extend the charter on certain conditions, but these were not accepted. In: 1813 another act was
passed extending the charter to 1st January, 1835, which was
accepted.
(Mr. V'elson here went into a detailed examination of the several
acts.) All the acts show that the legislature had in view the making
of the road, and the banks the extension of their charters. The
pledge not to incorporate any other banks shows that it was only
the franchise which was intended to be protected. The contract
was made with the banks as such. They -were the contracting
party in their corporate capacity. 'What does the act of 1841 do?
It imposes no tax on the capital stock of any bank, but on individual interests. No bank is plaintiff in error here, complaining of
a violated contract. The 9th section of the act directs ihe mode.
of making the assessment, which was upon the stock in the bands
of individuals at its cash value. But this is not the same with its

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

143

Gordon v.-Appeal Tax Court.
nominal value, which would hive been the, guide if the bank had
been taxed. As laid,'it is nothing more than an income tax, and
cannot a legislature lay that wvithout regard to the source from
which revenue comes? The distinction between a tax upon a bank,
as such, and a tax upon its property, is clearly recognised in the
case of McCulloch v State of Maryland, where the court say that
one may be taxced but not the.other. The identity.between a b*ank
and its-sockholders is shown not to exst, when we consider that
the bank, as a corporation, could not become one of its own stockholders. Application had to be made to the legislature for permission for-the bank to purchase its'own stock. It is true, as'said on
the other side, that the act of 1821 wqs accepted by'the stock-.
holders in .eneral meeting, but .this was a corporate act, and not
one proceeding from individual interests. If it had been the latter,
whence would the majority have derived the right to bind the'

minority.
2. The act of 1834;.chap. 274, was accepted by the Union Bank,
and by virtue of it the charter was extended to 1859. The acceptance of this new law is a merger of the -old, and in the new
there is no limitation of the jpo~wer to tax.
MTeredith, for plaintiffi in error, in reply and conclusion.
Let us.inquire,
1. What was the nature and character of the conttact?
2. Has it been impaired?
Mr. Meredith reviewed the charter of the'Union Bank and its
supplements, and said, that in 1821, some years before the. charter
was to expire, the legislature was desirous of making a xoad. It
was a'fact of universal notoriety that turnpike roads were not profitable. Individuals could not be persuaded to subscribe and inake
this one. , The cost to. the Union Bank was $161,000, nearly ten..
per cent. upon a capital of $1,800,000. It is conceded that for,
this the state has relinquished a portion of. the. power of taxation;
but then it is said to be only a partial exemption. We agree that
to make out a total exemption, the language must be so strong as to
leave no reasonable, doubt; and we say it is so. What are the
words? "Not to impose any further -fax or burden on .the,banks."
There aretwo important words: "any" and "f i rther." What 'is
the meaning of "anr? P' In its popular acceptation it would ,include all kinds of taxes in whatever form they might be. laid.
According to lexicographers, the word is 'of unusual and' indefinite
signification. "Any" tax nvust mean "every tax,"'of every nature
or description whatsoever.' Then there is the word 1further,)
which refers to somethingwhich has been done before and additional. The other side wish to limit the meaning to an addition of"
the same nature; liut no 'dictionary or example can be found to
justify this restriction.

.144

SUPREME COURT.
Gordon v.•App.eal Tar Court.

(Mr. Meedith here read frqom. Richardson's Dictionary, title
,IVrth.) The two words together are as comprehehsive as language could be used. They are quite as strong as those used in
2 Harrison. Inthe act 6f 1835, when the legislature interided to
put the 'new banks upon a footing with the old, they say "further
-o-other" in tke gd section. In a preceding section, the wore-, are
the same as those in,1821, which shows that they were supposed to
b6aequivalent. The case-cited from 11 Johnson was not that of'a
tax; it was afi assessihent for. opening. a' street; and the case in
8.T. R. was decided on two grounds: 1. That'the property didnot
belong to the occupier, and 2. That the statute -had been repealed.
Neither case is in point. In South Carolina, s~ven out of eight
"banks are exempted"under r clause exempting.banks-from taxation.
The case in Nott & McCord decided that words of exemption* did
o6t
extend ,to the franchise only, but all taxation.
If the words -of a statute are plain and definite, it is dangerous to
depart,'&c. Dwarris on Stat. 3 Law Lib. 48.
If the construction of the other side" be given to the' act of 1821,
the, 11th section is of no use; because without it the franchise
- woild have beeh safe from taxation.
In the cases of 12 Mass. and
4 Peters, the right was maintained, it istrue, to -impose a tax on
.existing banks, but in "neither case was there a relinquishment of
the taking poWer,:expres or implied, except'from the mere granting
of the chartdr. "We.maycdncede the authority of b6th. But here
the banks'paid "ahigh. plice for their renewed charters, and the
legislature could not havd taxed*the franchise any farther. If so,
the operat-on of the 11th section must be extended beyond the
franchise.
(Mr. Meredith then entered- into a critical examination of the acts
.of 1812 and 1$10, and argued that the first 'act was not accepted,'
because it.did nbt go .as far in. protecting the banks as that of 1813;
and that the latter would have been rejected.if it had not been sup-posed to exempt them entirely from taxation.)
Mr. Justice. 'WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
•The question isaied in'this case by the agreed statement of facts
up~on the record, is, Does the act of Maryland of 1841, chap. 23, so
far ds itdimposes-a tax- upon the shares of stock held.by sockholders in the- Union Bank of Maryland and the other banks mentioned in the statement, impair the obligation of a contract?
The banks are classified in that statement as.the old and the new
banks. The old are those which ''were chartered previous to the
year 1821 ; the new, those vkhich were charteredafter the year 1830.
Their exemption from the tax. imposed by'the act of 1841 is
claimed under the acts of Mayland of 1821, chap. 131, and that of
the.19th March. '1835 chap.. 274.called the act of the session 'of

18s4:

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

145

Gordon v. Appeal Tax Court.

It is admitted that the old banks accepted and have coniplied with
the terms and conditions of the act of1821 ; that'they also accepted
*andhave complied with the provisions of the act of 1834; and that
taxes have always, since the indbrporation of the banks, been aksessed
and leved upon their real and personal property in "allthe cities and
counties of the state, in the same manner as upon property. of,the
same kind belonging to individuals, and that they have always been
paid by the banks up to this time.
The question, however, which this court is called upon to decide,
and'to which our decigion will be donfined, is, Are the'shareholders
in the old and the new banks liable to be taxed, under the act of
1841, on account of the stock which they own in the banksF
The statement given-by the reporter of-the acts of the legislature of
Maryland, by which the -charters of the hanks-have been eitended
at different times, makes -it-unnecessary to refer to them in detail
here.
Are the old banks in Baltimore and their stockholders exempted
from further- taxation diffing the continuance of their charters under
the act of 1821, chap.. 131, by force-of the.11th section of that act?
Cozi the bld banks, after the year 1845, the time to which their charters were e.ttefided by*te aci of 1821,- and the new banks, claim
any exemption from taxation under the act of 1834, chap. 274; unless:it lie a.'tax upon their franchise of banking?
It appears, frown-the actg of 1812, 1813, and- 1821, t .thelegislatures'whih -passedth.em had. -inview the construction of the Cumberland an-d Bdosborough tdrnpike roads, ind -the establishment of
a school* fund. That they designed to accoiplish those objects by
malig some .ofihe banks cQnstruct the roads, and all of them contributors to he'sch6al fiAd, as the price for their charters. A round
sum, oran annual charge, with -orwithout referenie to capital stock,
may be asked b a legislature folr such a'ftanchise. "Itmay be'more
conenient to the banks to have such a consideration or bonus distributed through, the years *oftheir. corporate 'existence, than to- pay
*its equivalent in advance. .This option. was given to'the old banks.
Being so giv~n, if'is cbnclusive that the lkgisature intended the annual tax or charge upofi the capital dtocks-of the banks to be the
bonus or price,. or. part of, the price as to some of them, that they
were, to pay "or the .prolongation of their- franchise ot banking.
When the banks accepted'the acts, by choosing to pay the annual
charge in'stead bf the stipulated zaternative, it is plain that they
thought so too, and that -they understood inthat way the contract
between themselves and the state. Either was a condition, to be:
accepted and complied with befoxe the charters were to be extinded,
Such a contract isa limitation upon the taxing power of the legislature making it, and upon succeeding legislatures, to impose any
further' tax upon the franchise.. But why, when bought, as it becomes property, may it not be taxed, as land is taxed which has
N
VOL. H.-19

146:

SUPREME COURT.
Gordon v. Appeal Tax Court.

been bought from the state, was repeatedly asked in the course of
the argument? The reasoni is, that every one buys land, subjept in
his own apprehension to the great law of necessity, that we must
contribute fro it and all of our property, something to maintain the
state. But a franchise for banking, 'when -bought, the price is paid
for'the use of the privilege whilst-it last§, and any tax upon it woitld
substantially be an addition .to the price. But whether the bonus
for the franchise is paid by an annual tax upon the capital, stock, or
in any other way, it is in the discretion of the .egislature to tax the
cipital stock as an aggregate, according to its actual value, or the
stockholders on acc6unt of. their separate ow'nership of it, or the dividends in the aggregate, or the stockholders on account of their
portiols. of them. The limitation and the power to tax, as both
have been 'just expressed, wat subftantially conceded by'.counsel
on:both sides of this. cause. We did-not uuderstand the counsel for
the appellants as c6ntending, that the sfiareholders in, the old banks'
*ere exempted" from the tax imposed upon thein' on' cco.unt of their
st6ck; except by the force of the'llth sectiQ-i of the act of 1821.
Their argument was; though the'franchise"might be taxej -separate
from the stock of a.baik, whether the annual, tiax paid..by the banks
upon theirgapital st6ck was a tax upon their franchisqes or notj that
.the banks were.exempted fro'm 'frther taxafion; the old bankd by
force of the l11th 'section of th6 statute-of 1821' 'nd all of the banks
in Baltimore by force of the act of 1834,- The arcr&unient of the
counsel for the 'dfendant in error was, .that the ahnu tax paid'by
the banks 'was a tax 'uon-their franchises, and that the 11th section
did not give. to the.stockholders any exemption from being taxed as
persons on account of their. stocl. - Whether or riot the exemption
given -by that section is extended to' the' old and'the new banks in
vitue of the act bf 1834, is another question,-to which a, separate
answer must be'given in the coiirse of 'this opinion-.
Has such Ih exemption been given to the'old banks ? The 'language.of the 11th section of the act of 1821 'is: "And be it enacted,
That, upon any bf the aforesai' banks accepting-and complyingwith
the terms aind 'onditions of'Ihis act, the Taith of the state is hereby
pledged not to impose any further tax. or burden upon them.during
the contlnuance -of their charters under this act.", This is the Ian-guage of grave' deliberation, pledging the.faith-of' the state. for some,
purpose-.-.some effectual purpose; -Was tlirutlurpose the protection
of the banks from what that legislature and s-cceedinglegisatures
could- not do, if the banks accepted the a ,.or- from'hat they.might
do, in.the eiercise 6f the taxing power? -he terms 'ad conditions
of the act were, that the banks should constrct the road' and pay
-annually a desigfiated 'charge upon theii Z.apital stocks, as the price
for theprolbngation of their franchise ofba biig' - The power of the'
state to lay any futher fax upon-the franchise was exhausted.. Tbiat
ii the contradt between 'the statean4 the banks. It follows, then,

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

147

Gordon v. Appeal-Tax Court.

as a matter of course, when the legislature go out of the coutract,
propesing to pledge its faith, if the banks shall accept the act, not to
impose any further fax or burden upon theni, that it must have meant
by those words an exemption from some other tax than a further tax
upon the franchise of the banks. The'latter was already pro'vided
against. "To confine the pledge to any further tax upon th6 frane, surrenders the whole clause as 'a substantive enactment, to a
supposed needless declaration of the legislature, that it would not do
what it had 9tipulated by ifs contract.not to do. The faith of ktates
is .never. ledged but for some substantial- efid, within the... competency of 'their legislative power; and it is not for us to suppose.
that of Maryland was given in the -act of 1821, with a less grave intent. " Not to impose any further tax or burden," when used in
reference to some tax already imposed, means no pther tax besides
that to which reference is made.' Those words, so used- cannot.be
limited by a refinement upon the etymology of the word "any," 'out
of or beyond its meaning in common discourse, to afiyike; and the
words "1any further lax," used with -relation tosome other tax,.will,
-by common conrsent;' a.- it always-'has .been, be intended to mean
_.ny additional tax besides.that referred .to, and not- any further
ike tax.
Hfaving determinedt -that the clause in question was not meant as
,a pledge against furthei- taxation upon the fi-anchises of the bank,
but that it was a pledge a-gainst additional taxation, what is the extent of exemption given by it, or to what does it 'apply,. Does'
it.exempt the respective capital. stocks of the banks, as an aggregite,
and.the stockholders from being taxed as persons on account'of their
not be taxed,.
The- aggrgate could
stock ? Wethink it does both,efl'ect
upon the pars, that a tax.upon
without its .havif."g the, same
the parts,. would have up.oh the whole. .Besides, the legislature, in
proposing the' terms and conditions of the aet, use the word "banks":
with reference to the consent or acceptance of the act being given
by the stockh6lders; according to a fundamental article of hir charters.' The acceptane of the. act could only be made by the At6ck-holders. They.did aerept, and the tate recogaised it as the act'of'
the stockholders. It could not have-been given-or been' recognised
ih any other way. True it is, when acc'epted and recognised, it .became a contract with the banks. But its becoming a contract 'with
the banks determines of itself nothing. We must look in -ivhat'cha:-.
racter, or by whose assent it was to become a contracd with the
state, to ascertain the iitention of the legislature in making the pled'e,
"that upon any of" the aforesaid banks accepting of and complying
with the terms and conditions of this act, the faith of the state is here.
by pledged not to impose any further tax or burden upon them
during the continuance of their charters under'this act."
The senses in which the words'bank or banks<'are i'aed, ocir
every day in conversation, and are understood by. every one. ' But

148

SUPREME COURT.
Gordon v. Appeal Tax'Court:

the sense in which they are intended to be used, is determined by
their connection with what is said besides. When we speak of an
act to be done. by a bank or banks, we mean an act to 16e done by
those who have the authority to do-it. If it be an act within the
franchise for banking, or the ordinary power of the bank to contract,
and it is done by the president and directors, or by their agent, we
say the bank did it, and evey one understands what is meant. If,
however, an' act is to be done relative to the institution, by which
its charter is to be- in any way changed, the stockholders must Ao it,
unless another mode to effect it-has' been provided by the charter.
In one sense, but rifer it has been done, we may say the bank. did
it, but only so b'ecause what the stockholders have done, became a
part of the institution, which it was not before. The act to be done.
-in this' instan e was relativ6 to the institution. The legislature
knew it could only be done by the stockholders, and it uses the
word banks in reference to the act 'being accepted by the stockholders. Thel act was accepte&by them. When, then, the legislature says, "th a t upon any bf the aforesaid bankg accepting of ani
complying t the terms and conditions of this act, the'faith of.the
state is herebyipledged not to impose any further 'tax or burden,
upon them duing the continuance of teir charters under this act,"
the relative' is s brad as the antecedent, compnehending all t~t
the latter refdrred to. It ca~mot be said, then, that the stockholders
in
of theirofstock
account
in th'e
banks
are'taxed
not eempted
as persons,byonthe
11th. section
being
the act
1821oldfrom
of'

those -.banks, during the

ontinuance,

f their, charters under

that act.
Such was manifestly the intention of the legislatures which passed
the acts ofe1813 and 1821, from their language.. It is confirmed

by
the 'nttenidant circumstances. - Each of those legislatures 'were
anxious to have a' certain road "constructed, which they.thought the
requiredl;
convenience and intercourse of the citizens of'-Maryland.
and they were also anxious to raise an adequaxte school fund-for'
be
,slould
both
every county in the state. They determined tat
accomplished by incorporating certain "banks, with' thie obligation
upon them to iake the' roads, and to make all the banks in the.
state pay an annual tax upon' their respecive capitds, for a school
fund, as the conditions upon which their charters were to be exterfded. By the act of 1813, chap. 122, every incorporated bank
in the state was required to pay the annual tax oftwenty cents upon
its apital, stock, as the .condition upon
every hun'dred dollarsto of
which its charter 'Itas be extened.
When the legislature, in 1821, incorporated the Boonsborough
Turnpike Company, and proposed' o extefid the' charters of those
nof act, were to subscribe for stock
the
by the terms
S wmaichf
banks
enough to complete the -road, it renewed upon those 'banks the
school x whichhad been imposed upon them in common with the

IA.N.U'AR-Y TERM,: 184.

149

Gordon v. Appeal Tax Court.

other banks, .by the abt of 1813. The 11th sections in both acts are
identical. In what spirit were. those acts offered to the acceptance'
of the banks? In what spirit was it that the banks viewed and accepted these acts? It was an unusual way of providing means for
the construction of turnpike roads. The tolls might turn out to l'e
enough to compensate them for the experiditures. They might not.
Though the legislature thought the construction of the roads and
-paying the school-fund tax were no more than an adequate price
for an extended franchise, it is very certain that the stockholders
may have thought, that the incorporation of the banks into turnpike
companies, with an obligation upon them to 'withdraw so much
money from their business operations as was sufficient to finish theroads, presented only a contingent possibility that they could be remunerated by tolls from the roads. When the act of 18.21 was
proposed, they had some experience of what had been the result of
the construction of the Cumberland road. Is it not possible', then,
that when the acts of 1813 and 1821 were in preppraion, or as they.
were being enacted, that the 11th section was introduced as an inducement to the stockholders to accept those acts? Whether the
tolls from the road have ever compensated the banks for the expenditurd upon them, does not appear in the case. But it was natural
that the stQckholders, knowmg as they did that a tax upon the
franchises of the banks would not exempt them from other taxation,
stipulated in both instances that- a provision should be introduced
into the acts surrendering the state's rig*t to tax them further than
,they were about to be by those a6ts. In whatever way we examine
the acts of 1813 and 1821, we are of opinion that it appears, from
the 11th sections in those. acts, to have been the intention of the
legislatures which. passed them, to exempt the stdckholders from
taxatibn as persons on account of the stock which they owned in
the banks. This exemption, however, is limited to the old banks
in Baltimore which were chartered before 1821, during the continuance of their charter under the act of 1821. It is founded upon
the 11th section of that act- and it is our opinion that the act of
1841, chap. 23, il so fur as it imposes a tax upon the stockholders in
those banks, on account of their stock, does impair the obligations
.of a contract, and is void by the 10th section of the 1st article of
the Constitution of the United States.
Th act of 1834 does not extend to the old or the new banks an
exemption from the tax imposed by the act of 1841, chap. 23. It
is an act to extend the charters of the several banks in Baltimore.
The.second section.prescribes the -terms upon which the franchise
for banking is extended. Those terms are the payment annually of
twenty per cent. upon every hundred- dollars of the respective
capitals of the-banks, and their proportional parts of -75,000, id
two yearly instalments, computed from the passage of the act, ac6ording to the eombined r1ates of their respective capitals paid in,
N2

150

SUPREME COURT..
Gordon v. Appeal Tax Court.

and-of the time for -which their charters are respeciiely continued
beyond the first day of January, 1845.
Upon a failure of any bank to pay eithei the annual charge or its
proportional in stalment, its charter is declared null and void. The.
annual charge and the instalment make 'the bonug to be paid by
each bank for its continued franchise. It was urged for the old and
the new banks, that the annual tax 'which they were required to pay
by the secondsection of the act 6f 1834 being upon their respective
capitals, a tax upon ihe stockholders on account of their stock
would'be equivalent to 'an increase of the price-which had beezi
given for the franchise. The effeot upon the stockholderswould be
the same, as they pay both, but that is because they agreed to pay
an annual tax upon the capital stock, for their franchise, without any
stipulation by the state that they were not to be taxed as stockholders, on account of their stock, as was the case in the. eleventh section of the act of 1821. The franchise is their corporate property,
which, like any other property, 'would be taxable,-if a price had not
been paid for it, which the legislature accepted, as the consideration
for allowing them to use the franchise during the continuaiice of'their
charters. ,The capital stock is another property-corporately associated, for the purpose of banking-but in its"parts is the individual
property of the stockholders in the .proportions they may own them.
Being their' individual property, they may be' taxed for it, as they
may for any other property they may own.. This is not bnly the
case in Maryland. A franchise for banking is in every.state of the
union recognised as property. The banking capital attached to the
franchise is another property, owned in its parts by persons, corporate or natural, for which they are liable to be taxed, as they are for
all other property, for the support of government.
We are of opinion that The stockholders in the old banks are
exempt from the tax imposed by the act of 1841, chapter 23,
during the continuance of their charters under the act of 1821, but
that the stockholders in the old and-new banks are liable to be taxed
by the act of 1841, or that they can claim no exemption under the
act of 1834, by which-heir charters were fuilther extended.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is therefore reversed, and
the cause 'will be remanded, with directions to entei up a judgment
for the plaintiff in error.

