JANUARY TERM, 1845.

441

Carroll v. Safford.

mistaken when it assumed to have power to suppress the sale made
by the sheriff or t6 let it stand, at its discretion.
The decree is deemed entirely proper; nor would the reasons for
it have been noticed had not my brethren adopted them to the extent above; and with which adopton I cannot concur.

CHARLES H. CARROLL, COMPLAINANT, V. ORRIN SAFFORD, TREASURER
OF THE COUNTY OF GENESEE, IN THE STATE OF MICHIGAN, DEFENDANT.
When the purchaser of iand from the United States has paid for it, and received a final certificate, it is taxable property, according to the statutes of
Michigan, although a patent has not yet been issued.
Taxation upon lands so held is not a violation of the ordinance of 1787, as an
"interference with the primary disposition of the soil by Congress," nor is it
"a tax on the lands of the United States." The state of Michigan could
rightfully impose the tax.
It was competent for the state to assess and tax such lands at their full value,
as the absolute property of the holder of the final certificate, and in default
of payment, to sell them as if he owned them in fee.
In case of controversy, a court of equiiy is the proper tribunal to prevent an
injurious act by a public officer, for which the law might give no adfequate
redress, or to avoid a multiplidity of suits, or to prevent a cloud from being
cast over the title.

Tais case came up on a certificate of division from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Michigan, sitting as a
court of equity.
The complainant resided in the state of New York, and in 1836
purchased from the United States three thousand five hundred and
forty-niue and seventy-one one-hundredths acres of land in Genesee
county, in Michigan. The lands were paid for in the way usually
pursued-by purchasers of the public domain, subject to private entry
and sale. According to tie laws-of Cqngress, and the practice of
the land'officers, an individual wishfiig to purchase a tract of land
makes application, in writing, to the register, specifying, in the application, the particular tract sought to, be bought. The register
examines and ascertains whether it is subject to entry. If it be, he
gives to the applicant a memorandum, addressed to the receiver,
stating the application, andthat the land is subject to entry. This
is taken to the receiver, and the money there paid. The receiver
executes receipts in duplicate, specifying the particular tract sold,
and the price paid for it. One .of these is delivered to the purchaser, the other to the register; and this last is transmitted td
the office at Washington as a voucher against the receiver. The
register then makes out a final certificate, specifying the sale, and:
that the purchaser is entitled to a patent. It is competent for the
VOL. III.-56

442

SUPREME COURT.
Carroll v. Safford.

purchaser to demand and take this certificate from the register; but,
in practice, it is rarely done. Almost invariably the register retaiis
it until he makes his monthly returns, when he transmits this certificate to the office at Washington, and on it (if the government
confirm the sale) the patent issues.
. In this case, the register, immediately after -the entry of the land,.
transmitted to the proper office at Washington the patent certificates,
as.the basis of the issue of patents for.the land so entered by the
complainant.
The complainant, previous to the issuing of the patents for the
lands, did not enter into actual possession of them, nor exercise acts
of ownership over them.
Patents were issued for this land by the United States on 12th
August, 1837- and not before. They were dated on that day, and
were shortly after their date transmitted to the register of the land
office at Ionia, in.Michigan, uad subsequently #ere delivered to the
complainant.
The delay in the issuing of the patents, after the entry of the land
by the complainant, was not 'at the request or in any way by the
procurement of the complainant.
The patents'declare, that "the'United States give and grant" the
lands to the patentee.
In the year 1837, and before the date and issue of the patents,
these lands -were assessed at iheir full'value, and as if owned by the
complainant in fee-simple, for township, county, and state taxes, by
the proper local officers of Michigan, (having full knowledge that
the patents for the same had not issued,) which taxes 'were not paid
by the complainant.
The assessment rolls describe the land as owned by the complainant absolutely, and without any reservation or qualification.
The valuation attached to it purported to be its entire value, as an
absolute and unconditional estate in fee-simple.
By the laws.of Michigan, applicable to this part of the case, itis
made the duty of the county treasurer to sell such lands as have
been taxed, and the taxes on which have not been paid on giving a
'certain notice. The defendant being then, and now, a citizen of
the state of Michigan, as county treasurer of Genesee county, did so
sell the lands described in the bill of complaint.
Two years are allowed by law for the person claiming title to the
lands to redeem, by paying to the treasurer the tax and charges, and
interest at the rate of twenty per cent. per annum. If not redeemed,
the land was to be conveyed to the purchaser in fee-simplb.
The two years, the period allowed for redemption, had not- expired at the time of filing the bill of complaint. The bijl prayed
that the assessment and sale might be declared illegal, and declared
void, and that the treasurer of the county might be enjoined from
conveying the lands to the purchasers at the tax sale, for other relief

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

443

Carroll v. Safford.

The bill was filed in 1842, and was taken pro confesso. A motion was then made for a decree, according to its prayer, upon which
the following questions arose, upon which the opinions of the judges
were opposed:
1. Whether the statutes of the state of Michigan did, in fact,
authorize the assessment and sale of the lands in question, and
whether said statutes were intended to direct the assessment for
taxation -of lands of the United States before the patents for them
had been executed by the officers of the United States?
2. Whether the lands in question were, before the date and execution of the patents for them, subject to taxation at all, by the
state of Michigan?
3. Whether, if they were subject to taxation by the state, before
the execution of the patents for them, it was competent to assess
and tax and sell them, as the absolute property of the complainant,
and at their full value, as if he owned them in fee?
4. Whether the remedy by bill'in equity, and the relief sought,
are proper?
The statutes of Michigan, referred to in the above questions, were
the following:
Law of April 22d, 1833.
",Sect. 1. Be it enacted by the legislative cofincil of the territory
of Michigan, that the taxes hereafter to be levied in this territory,
shall be assessed, levied, and paid in the manner hereinafter mentioned, upon a valuation of real and personal estate, including
property and stock in any bank, insurance company, or other incorporation, to be made as hereinafter prescribed.
"Sec. 2. The assessors of each township may divide their townships, by mutual agreement, into such number 6f districts, to be
balled assessment districts, as they may deem convenient, not exceeding the number of assessors in any such township; and in every
year, between the 15th day of April and the 1st day of May, shall
individually, in their assessment districts, according to the best evidence in their power, make out a list or schedule of all the taxable
property in the same, and bring the said lists or schedules together.
and jointly value the property named in each, and set down in their
assessihent-roll the value of buildings and lands in such township,
owned or possessed by any person residing in such township, or any*
banking or insurance company, or other incorporation situated in
such township, opposite the name of such person or incorporation;
and shall also ascertain and set down in their said assessment-rolls,
in like manner, the value of all the personal estate of every such
person; and .in case any person, not satisfied with such valuation,
shall make oath before such ° assessor, or either of them, who are
hereby authorized to administer such oath, that the value of his or
her real or personal estate does not exceed a certain sums'specifying
the same, then, and in every such case, the assessors shall value such

444

SUJPREME COURT.
Carroll v. Safford.

real and personal estate-at the sumi specified in such affidavit, and
no more; and every person liable to be taxed for any personal estate
as aforesaid, shall be taxed for the same in the township where such
person shall reside at the time of makifig such assessment; and the
assessors shall also-ascertain what lands are situated in their townships, not owned by persons. residing in such townships, and shall,
in their assessment-rolls, separate from the assessments made the
-estates of .pon-residents, and designate such land in the following
manner: if the estate be a patent or tract of land of the subdivision
of which'the assessors cannot obtain correct information, they shall
enter the name of the patent or tract, if known by any particular
name,'without regarding who may be the owner thereof; and if"
such tract be not known or desighated by any particular name, they
shall state by what other land the same 'isbounded, and shall set
down the quantity of land contained therein, and the value ther&64
in the proper columns for that purpose; and the assessors shall complete their assessments on or before the 1st day of May in every
year, and make out a fair copy thereof fo" be left with one of the
board, and thereupon cause notides to be-put up at three or more
public places in their township, setting forth that they have completed their assessmr nt, and that a-copy thereof is left with one of
them, naming him, vhere the same.m~y be seen and examined by
any of the inhabitants during ten days; and that at the expiration
of the said'ten days, they shall meet on a certain day, at a place in
the said nbtice to be specified, to review their said assessments, on
the application of any person conceiving himself aggrieved; and it
shall be the duty of the said assessors, with whom the said assessment-roll shall be left as aforesaid, during the said ten days, to sub*mitthe said roll to the inspection'of any person who shall apply for
that purpose; and at the said time and place, the said assessors
shall meet, and, on application of any person conceiving. himself
aggrieved, shall review the said assessment, and may alter the same,
-onsufficient cause being shown, to the satisfaction of the said assessors, or a majority, of them; and the. assessors, or a majority-of
them, shall make oathi or.affirmation, and attach the same to the said
assbssment-roll in the foowing, or other equivalent form, to wit:,
do severally swear (or affirm) that the sums at which pro'We
perty is assessed in the foregoing assessment-roll, are, according to
our best judgment, the fair cash value of such property.'
"'Sect. 9. The person in possession of any real estate, at the
time any tax is to be collected, shall be liable to pay the tax imposed thereon; and in"ease any other person, by agreement or
otherwise, ought to pay such tax .or any part or"proportion thereof,
the person who shall pay the same shall and may recover the amount
and shall anbe preferred
anyprson
real estate
from the
upon
who shall
oughtbetoa lien
have thereon,
paid the-same;
all taxes
in payment to all other charges; and all taxes upon any personal

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

445

Carroll v. Safford.

estate shall, in case of the death or bankruptcy of the person taxed,
be preferred in payment to all other demands'
"1Sect. 14. Any tax heretofore laid by virtue of any law of this
territor'y, or to be laid by virtue of this act, upon any real estate,
and the interest and charges thereon, shall be a lien upon the same
real estate, until tfie same tax, interest, and charges, shall be paid
or recovered, notwithstanding the same real -estate may have been
divided or aliened, in the whole or in part; and whenever such tax,
and the interest aforesaid accruing thereon, shall remain unpaid for
two years from the 1st day of May following the year in which any
such tax was or shall be laid, the treasurer of the- proper county
shall cause so much of the land charged with such tax and interest,
to be sold at public auction; at the court-house of the county where
such lands are situated, to the highest bidder, as shall be necessary
to pay the said tax and interest, together with all charges thereon,
first giving at .least four months' notice of the time and place of sale,
by advertisement, posted up in three or more public places in said
county, and also, by causing a copy thereof to be published in one
or more of the public newspapers printed or in circulation in :said
county."
"1Sect. 15. On the day mentioned in the said notice, the treasurer.
shall commence the sale of the said lands, and continue the same
from day to day, until so much thereof shall be sold as will pay the
taxes,.interest, and charges due, assessed and charged thereon as
aforesaid; and the treasurer shall give to the purchaser or purchasers of any such lands, a certificate, in. writing, describing, the
lands purchased, and the sum paid therefor, and the time when the
purchaser will be entitled to a deed for the said lands; and if the
person claiming title to the said lands, described in the said certificate, shall not, within two years from the datethereof, ay the tfeasurer, for the use of the "purchase, his heirs or assigns, the sum
mentioned in such certificate, together with the interest thereon,
at the rate of twenty per cent. per annum, from the date. of the
said certificate, thq treasurer shall, at the expiration of the said two
years, execute to the purchaser, his heirs or assigns, a conveyance
of the lands so sold, which conveyance shall vest in the person- or
persons, to whom it shall be given, an absolute estate in fee-simple,
subject to all the claims which the territory of Michigan shall have
thereon, and the said conveyance shall be donclusive evidence that
the sale was regular, according to the provisions of this act; and
every such- conveyance to be executed by the treamsurer, under his
hand and seal, and the exectition thereof witnessed and aclowledged in the usual form, may be given in evidence and recorded,
in the same manner, and with like effect, as a deed regularly
acknowledged by the grantor .may be given in evidence- and recorded."

446

SUPREME COURT.'
Carroll v. Safford.

Nelson, attorney-general, for .the complainant.
.T'orvell. for the defendant.
.Nelson, for complainant.
A fundamental proposition, and one dn which the whole equity
of the complainant's case rests, is, that, until the issue of the patent,
the fee of the land remains in the United States; that,*after payment of the purchase money by the applicant, and the receipt of it
by the officers of the United States, the United States may still decline, on various grounds, to perfect his title by the execution of a
patent; that he cannot know after purchase, and before the patent
issues, whether he is to receive an absolute conveyance or not; that
nothing but the patent passes the fee, and that, before its issue, the
purchaser has but a qualified and contingent estate in the lands.
These principles are involved in thefollowing decisions: Stringer
et al. v. Lessee of Young et, al., 3 Peters, 320, 344 ;"Boardman et
al. v. Lessees of Reed & Ford et al., 6 Peters, 328, 342; Bi nell
et al. v. Broderick, 13 Peters, 436, 450; Wilcox v. Jackson,
13 Peters, 498, 511, 516; Brush v. Ware, 15. Peters, 93, 107,
108; Stoddart v. Chambers, 2 How. 284, 318.
I refer also to the opinions of the attorneys-general, and the prac,.
tice of the land-office, as found in the 2d volume of Public- Land
Laws, Instructions and'Opinions, published in 1838, not only to
show that the sale is frequently cancelled by the-government for a
great variety of reasons; and that "the issuing a patent is not so
purely a ministerial act as to follow a patent certificate as a matter
of course," but also that it has been the settled policy of the government to regard lands thus situated as exempt from all taxation, and
that " the legal title remains in' the government until the patent
issues." See pp. 4, 14, 24, 25,.39, 76, 80, 84, 87, 160, 213, 214,
and 1040; and act of Congress, 12th January, 1826, chap. 318.
-The payment of the money by an applicant for a parf of 'the
public domain, is a proposition for a purchase. The register and
receiver do not act judicially in admitting the application and receiving the money; their acts may be overruled, and the money
-returned, and a patent be refused for various reasons ; and the fate
of the ,application cannot be known by the purchaser until the patent
be 'dxecuted. Till'then his title is imperfect, and his estate contingent, In ordinary cases between private individuals, whQre a legal
contract for the sale of lands has been entered into, equity considers the vendee as the true owner of the lands, because the vendor
is bound ta convey by tirtue of a contract, which can be enforced
in a court of equity, and the obligation is mutual, as is also the
remedy. 2 Story's Eq. 98, 99, sect. 790. Not so in regard to applications for the purchase of the public lands. But even if this
were, it would not affect the present argument.
Assuming, then, that 'at the time of the assessment of the lands

-JANUARY TERM 1845.
Carroll v. Safford.

447

described in the bill, the fee of them was in the United Stafes, the
complainant's counsel'insist1. The staties of Michign did not embrace the lands in ques.
tion, and were not intended to authorize their assessment..
The statute directed the assessment of lands "owned or possessed
by any person residing inthetownship."
This part of the statute is inapplicable, for the complainant is and
was a non-resident ; and the case shows that he wa- not in the actual possession of the land.
The statute then directs the lands not " owned" by residents to
be separaiely assessed by the description of the tractwithout regard
to the-name of the "owner."I
. The assessment is to be according to te ."fair cash value"l of the
lands; that is, of the fee-simple or abs6lute estate i the lands. rThe assessment of real estate is'to be according to its entire value,
as in the case of personalty. The wora " owner" is attached to
both kinds of property as descriptive of. the estate or interest to be
taxed.
The taxes are made a lien upon the lands.
If iot paid; and if the land be not redeemed after sale for nonp yment, the treasurer of the county in which the lands lie is directed to execute to the purchaser "a conveyance'of the lands so sold
-whicl conveyance shall vest in the person or persons to whom itshall -be given an alsolute estate in fee-simple, subject to all the
claims which the territory (state) of Michigan shll have therein,;
and.the Wid conveyance shall. be'conclusive evidencethat the sale
was regular according to the provisions of-this act."
All the provisions of this statute are intended to operate upon the
unencu~nbered fee of the lands assessed. This'furnishes the measure of value-this regulates the conveyance of the'purchaser.
Lands owned by the United States are. not 'subje6t to taxation.
The fee of these lands w.s in the United States at the time of the
assessment. It 's not to.be supposed that there was any intention
of taxing the property of the United States. This assessment is
upon. the fee. The conveyance operates as a transfer of thie fee.
How, then, can it be argued, that the statutes intended to embrace
these lands?
. It does not aid th argument in this branch of it to say, that the
complainant had a valuable and taxable interest in these lands.
This may for the present be conceded;' Our answer to it is, that
the statute does not profess to tax such interest. It taxes'the owner
of the land and sells the fee if the tax be not paid. 2. The'lands in questiou wre not, before the'date and executibn of the patents for themn, subject to taxation atall by the state
of Michigan.
The proposition refers Io the date and execution of the patents.
It is not denied 'that, so soon as exdcuted, they become operative;

448

SUPREME COURT.
Carroll v. Safford.

and that the transmission of them to the rggister is in law a delivery
to the purchaser through him as the agent of both parties.
'The 4th article of the ordinance of 1787 for the government of
the territory north-west of the river Ohio provides, that "the legislatures of those districts or new states shall'never interfere with the
primary disposal of the'soil by the United States in.Congress assembled, nor with any regulations Congress may find necessary for
securing the title in such soil to the bona -fide purchasers. -No tax
sliall be imposed on lands the property of the United States; and
in no case shall non-resident proprietors be taxed higher than residents."
It has been shown that, after the receipt of the receiyer and the
4transmission of the patent certificate, the patent may still be-refused.
In point of fact this frequently occurs. Patents were, in several
instances, refused to, the complainant, and his certificates of purchase
caqcelled. In the case of Ostrom v. The Auditor-General of Michigan, which arose in the Circuit Court for the district of Michigan,
in 1842, it appeared that, out of about one hundred certificates,fourteen were never allowed, and patents for them had been refused;
The lands embraced in those certificates have been sold. and conveyed in fee-simple by Michigan, by virtue of assessments on them
i , the property of Ostrom, to whom the United States -refused to
convey. The United States either retain these lands, or have conveyed them to third parties. These facts illustrate the principle;
they may tgain occur. Is not this an interference with the primary
disposal of the soil by the United States ?" If so in any degree, the
amount of it does'not affect the arguments and if such may be the
consequence of admitting the operation of the principle, it is a conclusive argument against its allowance at all.
Again: It is provided that "no tax shall be imposed on lands
the propefty of the United States."
Mark the phraseology. It is not that no tax shall be imposed on
the interest or estate of the United States in any lands, but that lands,
while they remain the property of the United Statps, shall not be
taxed t all bythe states. This is the plain import of the terms. The
question is then narrowed to this: When do the lands embraced iM
the public domain cease to be the property of the United States?
This question, we think. has been fully answered by the authorities
already cited.
The reasoning of the court in the case of Wilcox v. Jackson, is
strong and clear upon this question:"We think it unnecessary to go into a-iletailed examination of the
various acts of Congress," say the court, "for the purpose of showwhat -we consider to be true.in regard" to the public lands, that
with the exception of a few cases, nothing bit a patent passes a perfect and consummate title:" -13 Peters, 516.
-.. d again:-tig

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

44g

Uarroll v. 6afford.

"A much stronger ground, however, has been taken in argument.
It has been .id that the State of Ilinois has a right to declare'by
law, that fftle derived from 'the United States, whicl* by their
laws, is only inchoate and imperfect, shall be deemed as perfect~a
title as if a patent had issued from the United States;. and the constrution of her own courts seems to give that'effect to her statute.
That state has an undoubted right to legislate as she may please in
regard to the remedies to be -prosecuted inher courts, and to reulate the disposition of the property of her citizens by descent, devise,
or alienation. But the property in question was a part of the public
domain of the United States. ' Congress is invested by the Constitution with the power of disposing of and making heedful rules and
regulations respecting it;. -Congress has declared, as we hiave said,
by its legislation, that in such a case as this a patent is necessary to
complete the tite. But in this case no patent has issued; and, therefore, by the laws of the United States, he legal title has not passed,
but reinain in the United States. Now, if it wei'e competent for a
deemed
this, the tite shall be
tay that
state legislaturd
to have to
passed,
the notwithstanding
effect of this would
.benotthat Congress had the power of lisposing of the public lands, and prescribing
the rules and regulations concerning that disposition, butthat Illinois
possessed it.
ha would be to make the lawsbof Illinois paramount.
of Congress in relation to a subject confided by ~the Constito
thbse
tution to Congress only.. Andthe practical result in this very asewould be, by force ofstate legislation, to take from the United Stats
their own land, against their own wzill, and against their own laws.
We hold the tre principle to be this: that whenever the question
titlepassed,
to landthat
wich
bad
court,
or-federal,
is, whather
in
anybeen
once
thestate
property
of the United
Statesa has
question
must be resolved by the laws of the United States; but that, when-.
eier, according to those laws, the litle shall have pa~sed, then that
property, likepli other property in the state, is subject to state legislation, so far as that legislation is consistent
,itthateadmission
thatsthe title Tassedtandvested according tothe-laws of the United
The act of Congress (15 June, 1836) admitting Michigan into the
union, is even stronger in its terms thai the ordinance of 1787. It
is as follows:
Sect. .And b it further enactedw that nothing in this act contaied, or in the admission of the said state into the
union
as oneof
the United States of America, upon an equal footing with the original
states in all respects whatever, shall be so construed or understood
as to confer upon the people, legslatdre, or otherauthorities of the
said state of Michigan, any authority or right to infere with the sale
by the United States, andctrder their authority of the vacant and
unsold lands within the limits of the said state; but that the subject
of the public lands, and the interests which maybe given of the said
VoL.. II.-57

2 r' 2

4690

SUPREME COURT.
Carroll v. Safford.

state therein, sh4l be regulated 'byfuture action between Congress,
on the part of the United States; -and the said state of Michigan
shall, in no case, and under no pretence whatsoever, impose any
tax, assessment, or imposition of any descriptioi, upon any of'th
lands of the United States within its limits."
This exemption fron taxation of the lands of the United States,
and the prohibition of the states in which they are located t6 interfere with heir disposal, were designed, as they were calculated, to
facilitate. their sale, and to hold out inducements to purch'asers, and
enter, as one of its elements, into the price of such lands;, ahd as,
from the very nature of the contract of purchase, a buyer cannot prmdently. improve, or expend money on *he land, before his title is
consummate. All the principles of equity, as well as of law, concur insecuring to the citizen an exoneration- from the burdens of
state assessment, until the moment thaf he may be recompensed by
the-enioyment of the profits.of the land purchased, and that is, when
his title is perfected by patent.
. -Th legislafure of the state of Michigan illustrates this view. By
her act providing for thq disposition of her university lands, she hat
provided, that the land held by-a certificate of purchase from the
state, shall be taxed as personal property;' that such certificate shall
enable the purchaser to support an action of trespass on the lands,
and entitle him'to the immediate possession thereof. Laws of Michigan, 1844, No. 68, sect. 19; And it has been. decided by her
eburts, that the holder of a -certificate of purchase from the United
States cannot maintain ejectment on: it. This I learn from the profession, for there are no reports publisied of -their decisions. The
same doctrine is thd settled law of Ohio. 1 Ohio Rep. 313, 314;
6 Ibid. 165; 7 Ibid. 151 and 252. . In fllinois,'the holder of certificate of -purchase may inaintain ejectment, &c., by virtue of positive
statutory enactment. Revised Laws,.p. -199.
But 'e'Think that, independ6nt of these statutes, the claim of-the
state to tax these lands is indefensible.
The. property of the United States is'not taxable by .the several
states.
The subjects over wnch the sovereign power of a state extends,
are objects of taitation; but fhose over which it does not extend, are
exempt from taxation. 'McCuloch v. The State of Maryland,
4 Wheat. 316. The power of legislation, and consequently of taxation, operates on all the persons and property bqlonging to the body
tolitic. Providence B9ank v. Billings & Pitman, 4 Peters; 563.
These priftiples exempt the United States and their property from
taxation by the states. See Weston et al. v.CityCouncil of Charleston,-2 Peters, 449.
The exemption extends to.the 'landsinc'ontroversy, unless the inchoate title acquired by the applicant for the purchase of them sub,

jects them to taxation.

JANUARY T-ERM, 1845.

451

Carroll v. Safford.

There certainly is no express legislation to this effect.
How does thecase stand on general principles? In order to place
it in the most unfavourable light for.our argument, let the situati6n
of the complainant be assimilated to that of a vendee after contract,
but before deed, who has a perfect right to a conveyance. Befote
conveyance actually made, who is to pay taxes on the lands agreed
to be *conveyed?
Taxation is a legal question. Taxes are levied against the-legal
owner. they are prescribed by express statutes. Legal rights are
alone looked to in the assessment and levy of taxes.
Under the old. credit system, lands were confessedly exempt from
taxation *until after. the patent issued. A purchaser of them, even
before the payment of the .money, was as much an equitable owner
as now. He was styled the purchaser of the land so so6n as he
made the payment of twenty percent, and received is certificate.
Look at the absurdity of the opposite doctrine: Ifa tax assessoi
is to inquire into the equitable rights and interests of "larties,
then
when money has been agreed to be laid- out in lands, 'ti should.be
assessed and returned as lands, and vice versa, in regard to 'lands
contracted to be sold.
This very point arose in the, case of Wils6n's Exec.:v. :'appan,
6 Cond. Ohio Rep. 80, 7 Hammond, 112;. ahd it was there decided,
that the vendor was bound to-pay"them; and that., if not paid, the
warranty in the deed of freedom from encumbrances would indemnify the vendee against them.
'The patents issued by the United States for the public lands contain the words 1 give and grant". These words imply a warranty.
See Cain sls Rep. 18a; 7J'obns. Rep. 258;8 Cowen, 36; 1 Coke,
384 a; 4 Kent's Corn. (ed. of 1844,) 474, and cases there cited. If
the complainant can be compelled to pay these taxes, he has a right
to be re-imbursed-by'the United States.
The public, domain, as such, cannot be taxed by the states. The
lands of the complainant were not sevwred from it until conveyed to
him by patent. After he had paid his money to the receiver on his'
application to purchase th lands, he could have been personally assessed for such sum, if he had been within the jurisdiction of Michigan. His property.was not diminished by such a payment; for, if
the patent were refused, the money would be refunded. If actual
possession.had been'taken of the lands, inasmuch as such possepsion
is protected by the laws of the state, its value might be the subject
of a personal tax.' All this may be granted, and yet nothing will
have been conceded tending 'to establish the right of the state to impose a tax upon the land itself, which does not constitute a charge
against the purchasetr personally, but is to be satisfied out of the
lahd and by a sale of it. This is the pharacter of the present tax,
and must be of any.land-tax. Such'tax is a proceeding in rem.
It cannot be apportioned' and split up, so as to sell the interest of

452

SUPREME COURT.
Carroll v. Safford.

the purchaser in the land, and transfer an interek. in it, without the
assent or co-operation of the United States, and yet not interfere
with the absolute rights of property and control belonging to the
latter.
The federal government, though limited in the subjects of its
powers, is sovereign in their exercise; and in all cases where its
powerd are exclusive, or where the exercise of a concurrent power
by a state conflicts with the beneficial and perfect exercise of it .by
the United States, the federal authority is supreme. The. extent of'
the alleged interference is not a question to be considered in determining its invalidity.
The case of Dobbins v. Commissioner of Erie Co., 16 Peters, 435,
applies this principle to a question of taxation. It also shows clearly, that this is a tax on the property assessed, and not a personal
charge, (p. 446,) and that such a tax, when it acts upon the property or agents of the United States, is entirely illegal.
The public domain is exclusively within the control of the United
States, and is an important source of its revenue. The "plerfect'
execution" of the power of its sale, and management'is certainy
interfered with by the acts complained of bnd the principles established in the above case (p. 447) control the present.
1 3. If the lands were subject to taxation to any extent'by the state
of Michigan, before the execution- of the patents for them, it was
not competent to assess, and tax, and sell them as the absolute property of the complainant, and at their full value, as if he owned
them in fee.
* That such is the effect qf.-the law. complained of, will not be denied. That it is illegal, we think is already shown. The feeof the"
United States cannot be divested by the legislation of the state.
The state could only give the purchaser at the tax-sale an equitable
interest, for the complainant himself had no other.
4. The case is properly cognisable in equity, and the relief sought
is appropriate.
As to the principle on -which equity exercises its jurisdiction,
there are equitable rights and legal rights incident to property.
Courts of law will not take notice- of mere equitable rights; they
can bd enforced only in equity, and hence arises the exclusive jurisdiction of courts of equity.
But in cases where legal rights are defined and settled by the
rules of law-, then equity follows the law.
The right to tax, and the 'mode of taxation, are defined by statute,
and the construction of statutes is the same at law and in equity.
In svpport of these principles, I refer to 1 Story's Eq. 14, 15, 16,
17, 72.
Our rights, then, are settled by the.law, and will be construed in
the same manner in courts of law and of'equity. Indeed, isit not
manifest that' the legality or illegality of Ithe tax must be decided in

JANUARY TERM, 1W~.

403

Ca'rroll-v. Safford.

the same way by courts of law and equity? Can that be a valid assessment in equity which is invalid at law, where there can be but
one legal mode of assessment in any case? Why, then, if we rely'
upon our legal rights, do we ask.the interference of-equity?
We come for the remedy. The most important source of juisdiction of an equity court is that which is concurrent with-courts of
law. Rights in each court are the same, but a party is at liberiy to
ask the aid of a court of equity to protect him i his legal rights on
account of the better remedy which'results from.the modes, of administering relief in equity; and equity will interfere in all cases,
where the remedy at law is not pain, adequate, and complete. See
1 Story, 93, 94.; 2 Story, 155, 163; 3 Peters, 215.
When this is done, the rights -of parties in the subject-matter of
the litigation are construed as at law. The remedy is according to
equity, and it will be granted in all cases, with the simple condition,
that a party who asks it shall do equity himself.
What is meant by this? Not the wild notions, as to natural equity
which were suggested on the argument below; but simply, that
where legal and conscientious matters are mingled in the same
transaction with those of a fraudulent and illegal character, a party
shall discharge .the former part of the conhract'before he will be relieved as to the latter. 1 Story's Com. '77,
This maxim has here no application, until it be shown that a part
of these taxes are legal and proper.
The sole point that is left for discussion is, as to the reasons-which
render the remedy at law inadequate; and require the interference of
this court. These reasons are the following:
1st. To prevent: a cloud being cast over the complainant's title.
See following authorities: Corporation of Washington v. Pratt,
8 Wheat. 682; Burnet v. City of Cincinnati, 9Ohio Rep. 86 ; Gouverneur v. City of New York; 2 Paige, 435; Pettit.. Shepherd,
5 Paige Rep; 493, 501 ; Hamilton v. d'ummings, 1 Johns. Ch. Rep.
517; Ward-v. Ward, 2 Hayw. Rep. 226; Leigh.v. Everhart,
Exec., 4 Munf. Rep. 380; Grover v. Hugel, 3 Russ. Ch. Rep. 432";
Harrington's Rep. 3; Ostrom v. Bank of the United States, 5 Pet.
Cond. 759.
2d. To prevent a. multiplicity of suit§ and unnecessary.litigation.
1 Story, 82,83, 84; 6 Paige Rep. 88. Better for beth complainant
and the state that the matter should now be decided.
3d. To restrain public officers from doing an illegal act. If the
act be consummated, there may be no redress; equity, therefor;
interferes to prevent the consequent failure of justice .by enjoining
the act. Osborne v. Bank of the United States; 6 Paige, 88;
2 Kent, 339, note, 3d ed.
The claims of the state to tax lands-in the situation of those described in the complainant's bill are exceedingly inequitable. The
lands are not actually nor theoretically separated from the public

464

SUPREME COURT.
Carroll v. Safford.

domain. -The purchaser has taken no possession of them, nor ex.ercised any acts of ownership over them. A tax on the unimproved
and vacant lands of non-residents is generally inequitable, and, at
best, oppres§ive and onerous. See 2 Kent's Com. 332. Just so
soon as an individual proposes to buy the lands of the United States,
the agents of the state rush in and fasten on it, and demand, on pain
of forfeiture of th'e.whole of it, that he pay taxes on it for an interest
which he does not own, and which he cannot know he will receive,
until, perchance, the land has been sold and lost.
.Vorvellq; for defendant.
The questions of difference involved in-this case are of deep mi.
portance to the state of Michigan, affecting, as they do, her right to
tax lands as soon as they are purchased, and paid for, from* the
United States, and obliging her, if they should be decided adversely
to the defendant, -to refund to individuals a large amount of money
received into her treasury from the taxation of lands so situated.
1. The first questioni is, "1whether the statutes of the state of
Michigan did, in faci, authorize the assessment and sale bf the lands
of the complainant,'and whether said statutes were intended to direct
the assessmnt for taxation of lands of the United.States before the
patents for them had been executed by the -officers of the United
States?"
'The statutes of Michigan did and do authorizp the assessment,
taxation, and sale of lands for non-payment of the taxes, situated as
those of the complainant were. The. lands of the complainant had,
prior to their assessment, been purchased froin the United States,
and he -had received the regular certificates of purchase and- payment from the receiver of public.moneys. These lands were not, it
is believed, sold for the .taxes, before the patents were dated and
executed. But whether they-were, or not, is not material to the
right decision of.this cause.
The act Sassed by the legislative council of the territory of Michigan, and approved on the 22d of April, 1833, authorizes, in its first
.section, the assessment, levy, and collection'of taxes, upon the
valuation of real and personal property, to be made as prescribed in
the subsequent- sections of the same-act. '
The 2d section directs the proper officers to ascertain, assess, and
make out a separate and distinct list of the lands. situated in their
-respective townships, "not owned by'persons residing in such'
township, ' and prescribes th manner in which the lands of nonresidents shall be described and entered in the assessment-rolls.
'This is precisely the same language used with regard to the iands
owned by non-r -sidents, and assessed for taxation, in the laws of
Michigan, passed by her legislature, after.she became a state.
'The 14th section of the act .of April 22, 1833, provides that
whenever the taxes on lands of non-residents, as well as residents,

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

455

Carroll v. Safford.
shall remain unpaid for two ye.ars, the treasurer of the proper county
shall cause so much of the land charged with such taxes and interest) as shall be necessary to pay the same, to be advertised and
sold for that purpose, giving at least four months' notice, in certain
public newspapers, of the time and place of sale.
The long notice directed to be thus given, before the sale could
take place, affords conclusive evidence that the lands of non-residents living out of the state were included in the terms and provisions of the act directing th6 assessment, taxation, and sale of real
and personal estate, if the taxes were not duly paid thereon.
The succeeding section of the law prescribes the tinie within
which, and the conditions on which, the lands in que8tion' thus
assessed, taxed, and sold for the- taxes, might be redeemed by the
owners.
I refer to the act of April 22, 1833, at page 88 of the Session
Laws of 1833, to be found here in the Department of State.
The laws of Michigan make no distinction between the lands for
which patents have notbeen.issued, and those for which they have
been issued, in providing for their assessment, taxation, and sale
for the non-payment of taxes. 'As soon as the lands are purchased
of the 'United States, the money paid for them, and the duplicate
receipts and certificates of purchase signed, and issued by the receivers of the public moneys at the land-offices within the state, they
become, according to the invariable interpretation of the tax laws
of that state, and the usage in their execution, objects of assessment, taxation, and sale.
An act was passed by the legislative council of Michigan, and
approved December 30, 183 "making the cetificates of the pur-.
chase of public lands" evidence of their possessioh by the persons
holding such certificates of purchase of such lands, as against any
person or persons not having a better title than actual possession.
is act illustrates the general light in which the duplicate receipts
or certificates of the purchase, of public lands, signed by the rece rs, -were -viewed by the legislative authorities of Michigan.
The statute remains unrepealed. And-I am not aware that ary of
the courts of Michigan have decided, "that the holder of a certificate of purchase from the United States cannot maintain ejectment
upon it." On the contrary, the very law making these certificates
evidence of possession was'intended to authorize the holder to maintain action of ejectment in imy of her courts, and it expressly provides that they shall be evidence in such courts that possession is in
the person holding the certificate. And, as secretary of the legislative council when the act was passed, I remember it was maintained
in debate, that lands which had been purchased, and for which certificates. of purchase from the United States had been issued at the
land-offices, were us lawffilly and rightly the subjects of taxation as
if thepatents had been issued from the proper department at Wash-

456

SUPREME COURT.
Carroll v. $afford.

ington. See the Session Laws of Michigan, passed at the second
session of legislative council in 1834, pp. 88,,89.
The act of the legislature' of he.state of Michigan, approved
Apil 19, 1839, makes it the duty 9f the several county treasurers
to collect all non-resident thxes assessed prior to 1838, remaining
unpaid, as if the laws under which said taxes were assessed still
continued in force. See'Session Laws of1839, pp. 168 and 177.
An act to regulate tax-sales for 1843 authorizes the sale of all
lands for delinquent taxes assessed 'in the.yebrs 1836; 1837, and
1838. The several county treasurers are to make the sales under
the direction of the 'auditor-general. See Session Laws of Michigan
of 1843, pp. 55 and 70.
It is clear, then, that "the lands in question," belonging to the
complainant, were authorized by the statutes of Michigan to be
assessed for taxation, and to be sold for the non-payment of taxes.
It is equally clear, from the plain language of the statutes, and
from the practical interpretation put upon them by all the public
authorities of Micbig~n, that "they were intended to direct the
assessment for taxation of lands" purchased from "the United
States, before the patents for them had been executed by the officers of the United States," but after the money had been paid for
them, and' certificates of purchase and payment had been received
from the proper land-officer.
2. To the question, "whether the lands in question were, before
the date and execution of the patents for them, subject to taxation
I answer in the afirmative.
of Michigan,"
bste
at all by the
v. Charles
Jobnstfate,
H. Ostrom
In the cas of
auditor-general
of the
tried in et
theal.Circuit
CourtG.ofHammond,
the United
before
of 1842,
the June
Michigan,
the district
States for
Judge
Wilklins,
it wasof.decided
thatat the
entry term
of public
lands,
the
payment of the purchase money, and the certificate of the receiver,
constituted such an equitable interest and title in the land as .to
authorize its taxaion by the state, and its sale for th~e non-payment
of the taxes.
At the succeeding
October
of the
samepreceding
court, Judge
McLean
presiding,
the decision
of theterm
court,
at the
term,din
the
case of Ostrom v. The Auditor-General, was confirmed, both judges
Newspaper
conourring
inreports
opinion.of te case have alone'as yet, been published.
But the decision must remain fresh in the memory of Mr. Juatice
McLean
In the of
casethis
ofcourt.
Douglas v. Dangerfield, in the Supreme. Court of
Ohio, the court stated that the
aight
to tax lands 'within the borders
of that
state,had
before
become the property of individuals, was a
which
beenthey
sright
exercised
from the earliest period of the state
government, 'with respect to all lands except those belonging to the
United States, while so held, or for a limited perif'd after the same.

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

457

Carroll v. Safford.

were sold. This limited period has reference to the five years' exemption, which the compact of admission between the'United States
and Ohio secures to purchasers of public lands in that sftate, after
they have made their purchases. No such exemption is stipulated
in the compact which admitted Michigan into the union. She has
the right to tax as soon as the public lands are purchased.
Judge Hitchcock adds, in this same case, that "ifthe right to tax
exists, and that it does there has not been any serious quetion for
many years at least, it would seem to follow, that the right to collect
must also exist, although in making collection it might become necessary to transfer to a new proprietor the thing taxed." When,
however, this question "does arise, it must be purely a legal question, to be bettled by a-court of law." 10 Wilcox) Ohio Rep. ,156.
See also, pp. 154, 155.
In Ohio, it is well known that lands entered and surveyed in the'
military land district, have for years been. taxed, and told for taxes,
before they were patented, This is stated in the report of the case of
Hennick et al. v. Wallace, 8 Ohio Rep. 540, where the court say,
that in another casej -which was cited, "it was expressly held, that
where: lands have been entered and surveyed in the military land
district, and sold for taxes before patented, that when patented, the
patentee musthold the land subject t6 any claim which a purchaser
at tax-sale may have in consequence of such sale." In the case- of
Hennick, just referred to, the land'wa§ sold for taxes before patented, and the court said that the sale was legal, so far as any thing
appeared to it in the case. 8 Ohio Rep..541.
In the case of the lessee of Stuart and others v. Parish, Supreme
Court of Ohio, at the December term, 1833,6 Hammond, part 1,476,
477, Stuart purchased the tract No. 5, in the Sandusky Reserve, inm
1812, and made the first payment. He afterwards took the benefit ofthe eight years' credit, under the laws which then prevailed. Stuart
-did,not complete the payment for the land until 1830.' Four years
before that, thd land 0as taxed. The court would not entertain the
question, whether the land was liable to taxation before patent issued, but admitting the legality of the sale for taxes, said, that the
legal title of the patentee was not affected by'such sale. 'In other
words, the tax-title could not convey an interest to the purchaser superior to that of the owner at the time of the sale for taxes.
In Alabama, before public lands finally pass into the hands of the
purchaser by patent, the collector may rent at auction so much as
will pay the tax, but cannot sell until the title is complete.
The Supreme Court of the United States, in the case of Bagnell
et al. v. Broderick, 13 Peters, 436, decided, that "no doubt is entertained of the power of the states to pass laws to authorize purchasers to prosecute actions of ejectment, or certificates of purchase,
against trespassers on the lands purchased." If conflicting patents
issue, the, state courts may give effect to -the better right.
VoL. MJJ.-58
2Q

458

SUPREME COURT.
Carroll v. Safford.

In Pennsylvania, where the consideration for the land has been
paid, a survey, though unaccompanied by a patent, gives a leal
right of entry. 3 Dall. 457.
The authorities, then, clearly show that lands are subject to taxation by the state, on certificates of purchase, before the patent issues.
It would be very extraordinary if an individual could purchase lands
of the United States, settle, improve, and cultivate them, ,on certificates of purchase, and yet, because, from the neglect and delay of
the proper, department, the patents are ndt issued for several years, they are exempt from taxation, while his neighbour'was compelled
to pay taxes, when he was deriving no greater advantage from the
possession and cultivation of his land.
. Lands purchased and paid for at the land-offices, are not thereafter the property of the United States. The United States cannot
withhold the patents, except in a few specified cases, as where the
sale was illegal; where a prior sale or reservation, or a prior grant,
may have been made; where the land had not previously been offered at public sale, or where it had been directed by government to
be withheld from sale. These are' rareexceptions, and do not affect or impair the general principle, that, as soon as the public land
is purchased and paid for, it becomes the property of the purchaser,
and may be sold and transfen-ed by him, as is constantly the case, before it is patented. Ithe authorities and decisions were not i favour
reason
and common
of the right
of the state
to would
tax such
land or certificates ofpurchase,
sense
demonstrate
its equity and justice.
3. It follows
from.these
views, which show that lands are subject
to
before
to taxation
assess, tax,
andthey
sell are patented, that it is competent for the state

them, as the property of the owner, as if they

had been patented.
from the
accident,
or thleofexceptions
adverted to under the precedingIf,head,
certificates
purchase should
not be matured into pa-*
tents, the pm-chaser
a tax-sale could not acquire a better tide than
the holder of the certificate. That is his risk. But in ithe case of
the present complainant, it is not pretended that his tihes were not

perfected. On the contrary, the record brought up here alleges and
admits that the patents for his lands were issled on the 12th of August, 1837. And this was before the lands were sold for the taxes.
4. It is doubted whether the remedy sought in this case, by a bill
in equity, is proper. In the case of Ostrom v. The Auditor-General,
involving the same principles as the case of the complainant involves,
Judge Wilkins said that the complainants had an adequate and complete remedy in the state courts for any injury they might sustain by
the sale of their lands for taxes, if the taxation and sale were illegal.
And the 16th section of the act of 1789, establishing the courts of
the United States, provides that suits in equity shall not be sustained
in the courts of the United States, in any case where a plain, adequate, and complete remedy may le had at law.

JANUARY

TERM, 1845.

459

Carroll v. Safford.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion vf the court.
The complainant filed his bill in the Circuit Court of the United
States, in Michigan, stating that he is .the owner in fee-simple of
certain lands lying in Genesee county, amounting to three thousand
five hundred, and forty-nine and seventy-one'hundredths acres, and
of the value of $7500. That, in 1836, he entered these lands, paid
for them,'and received from the land-office a final certificate. Patents were issued for them on the 12tli of August, 1837. That the
delay in issuing the patents was not at the instance of complainant.
Before the emanation of the patents, the lands were assessed for taxation, and sold by the defendant for the taxes thus assessed. Two
years are allowed the owner to redeem the land by the act of
Michigan, on the payment of the tax, charges, and iAerest, at the
rate of twenty per cent. per annum. When this bill was filed, the
time of redemption had not expired. The bill prays, that the assessment and sale may be declared illegal and void, and that the
defendant may be enjoined from conveying the land, and other re-

lief, &c.
The case was considered as on a demurrer to the bill, and on the
argument, the opinion of the judges were opposed on the following
points:1. "W h ether the statutes of the state of Michigan did, in fact,
authorize the assessment and sale of 'the lands in question,, and
whpther said ktatutes *ere intended to direct the assessment for taxation of lands of the United States, before the patents for them 'had
been executed by the officers of the Unitdd States."
2. "'Whether the lands in question were, before the date and exedution of the patents for them, subject to taxation at all by the state
of Michigan."
3. I" Whether if they were subject to taxau,, oy the state, before
the execution of the patents for them, it was -competent to assess,
and tax, and sell them, as the absolute property-of the complainant,
and at their full value, as if he owned them in fee."
4. "Whether the remedy by bill in equity, and the relief sought,
are proper."
The 1st section of the act of the 22d of April, 1833, of the territory of Michigan, provides, "that the taxes hereafter to be.levied in
this territory shall be assessed, levied, and paid iu the manner
hereinafter mentioned, upon a valuation of real and personal estate,"

&c.
By the 2d section the, asse ors of the different districts, " according to the best evidence in their power," are required to make out
9a list or schedule of all the taxable property in he same," .and
bring the said lists or schedules together, and jointly value ,the property named in each, and set down in their assessmentrdll.the value
of 'buildings in such township, owned or possessed by any person

residing in such township," &c. "And the assessors shall ascer-

460

'SUPREME COURT.
Carroll v. Safford.

tain what -lands are situated in their townships, not owned by persons residing in such townships, and shall, in their assessment-rollp
separate from -the assessments made the estates of non-residents, and
designate such land in the following manner: if the estate be a patent -or tract. of land of the subdivision of which the assessors cannot
obtain correct information, they -shall enter the name of the patent
or tract, if known by any particular name, without regarding who
may be the owner thereof; and if such tract be not known or designated by any.particular name, they shall state by what other land
the same is bounded; and shall set'dowh the quantity of land: contained therein in the proper" columns for that purpose." By the
14th section, the tax,'interest, and charges thereon, constitute a lien
on the land, though aliened, and unless paid within two years from
the.lst of May succeeding the assessment of such tax, the treasurer
of the proper county, after giving notice, is required to.sell the same.
And if the person claiming title to -said lands shall not pay fo the
treasurer, for the use of the purchaser, his heirs or assigns, the sum
paid by him for.. the lands, with interest at the rate of twenty per
cent. per annum, the treasuier-shall execute to the purchaser, his.
heirs or assigns, "1a conveyance of the lands so sold, which conveyance shall vest in the -person or persons to whom it shall be given
an absolute estate in fee-simple," &c.; "and such deed inay be
given in evidence; -nd recorded in the same manner and with like
effect as a deed regularly acknowledged by the grantor may be
given in evidence and recorded."
It is first contended, "that the statutes of Michigan did not emabrace the land in'question, and were not intended to-authorize their
assessment."
In answer to this, it may-be said, .that a different construction has
been put upon.the above statutes by the authorities of the territory,
and also of the state since its admission.into the union. The practical construction of local laws is, perhaps, the best evidence of the
intention of-the law-makers. The courts of the United States adopt
as a rule of decision the established construction of local laws. And
it cann9t be material, whether such consti'uction has been established
by long usage or a-judicial decision,
But independently of the -force of usage, we think the construction is sustainable. -When the land was purchased and paid for, it
was no longer the property of the United States, but of the-purchaser.
He held for it a final certificate, which could no more be cancelled
by the United States than a patent. It is true, if the land had been.
previously sol4by the United States, or reserved from sale, the certificate or patent might be recalled by the United States, as having
ben issued through mistake. In this respect there is no difference
between the certificate-holder and the patentee.
It is said, the fee is not.in the purchaser, but in the United States,
until the patent shall be issued. This is so, technically, at law, but

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

461

Carroll v. Safford.

not in equity. The land in the hands of the purchaser is real estate,
descends to his heirs, and does not go to his executors or administrators. In every legal and equitable aspect it is considered as belonging to the realty. Now, why cannot such property be taxed by its
proper denomination as real estate? In the words of the statute,
"as lands owned by non-residents." And if the name -of the
owner could not be ascertained, the tract was required to be described by its boundaries or any particular name. We can enter.tain no doubt that the construction given to this act by the authorities of Michigan, in regard to the taxation of land sold by the
United States, whether patented or not, carried out the intention of
the law-making power.
But it is insisted, ' that the lands in question were not, before the
date and execution of the patents for them, subject to taxation at all
by the state of Michigan."
It is supposed that taxation of such lands is "an interference iNith
the primary disposition of the soil by Congress," in violation of the
- ordinance of 1787; and that it is "a'tax on the lands of the United
States," which is inhibited by the. ordinance. Now, lands which
have been sold 'by the United States can in no sense be called the
property of the United States; They are no more the property of
the United States than lands patented. So far as the iights of the
purchaser are considered, they are protected under the patent-certificate as fully as under the patent. Suppose the officers of the goverument had sold a tract of land, recei 'ed the purchase money,
and issued a patent-certificate, can it be contended that they could
sell it again, and convey a good title? They could no more do this
than they could sell land a second time which had been previously
patented. When sold, the government) until the patent shall issue,
holds the mere legal title for the land in trust for the purchaser; and
any second purchaser would take- the land charged with the trust.
But it is supposed that because on'some certificates patents may
not be issued, taxation of unpat~nted land is an interference "with
the primary disposition of the land." And it is said that in the
case of Ostrom v. The Auditor-General of Michigan, before the Circuit Court in 1842, out of one hundred certificates patents were refused on fourteen'of them; that those lands had been sold for taxes
and conveyed under the statutes of Michigan;, and that the United
States either retain those lands or have conveyed them to third
parties..
Michigan does not warrant the title to lands sold for taxes. The
deed, by the express words of the statute, when duly executed and
recorded, "may be given in evidence in the same manner, and ivith
like effect, as a deed regularly acknowledged by the grantor," &c.
The government has no right to refuse a patent to a bondfide purchaser of land offered for sale. But where there has been fraud, or
mistake, the patent maybe withheld, and every purchaser at a tax-sale
.2q2

462

SUPREME COURT.
Carroll v. Safford.

-

incurs the risk as to the validity of the title he purchases. He
incus'ihe same risk after the .emanation of the patent.: But.how
this interferes with "1the primary. disoosition of the public lands," '
by the United.States, is not perceiyed. The sale for taxes is mAde
on the presumptionthat the purchase from the government has been
bona fide, and, if not o-jnade, the purchaser at the tax-sale acquires
no title, and consequently no -mbarrassment can arise in the future
-disposition of the same-land by the government.
* It is known to be universally the.practice in the west, where lands
are"purchased for a -residence and cultivation,, that the purchaser
entersimmediately into the possession of them., And it may also
be-,observed, hat-in-,all the new states, lands'purchased of *the
United States -have -uniformly been held liable to. be taxed before
they are patented. And, indeed, in Ohio, under the credit system;
lands were taxed after the expiration of five years from the time of
their purchase, although they had not been paid for in full. There
was no compact made with Michi~oan", as with Ohio, not to tax lands
sold by the United States until after.Ihe 'xpiration of five years from
the time of sale. -The court think that the, lands in question were
liable to taxation under the authorities of Michigan.
It is contended "that such lands should not be taxed at their full
value, nor should they'be sold as if the claimant owned 'them in
fee."
The statute does provide that the collveyance, under'a tax-sale,
.9"shall vest in the purchaser ai absolute estate in fee-simple',. &c..
Two. years and more are -rejquired to elapse after the tax shall become due, before the land is liable to be sold; and the deed is nottQ be executed before the lapse of two years after the sale, during
-which time the owner has a right to redeem. This is a tardy proceeding, and gives ample time to non-residents for the payment of
-their taxes, &c. The land should be estimated at its full value, as
the owner, having paid for it, is subjected to no additional chargefor
the obtainment of the patent. And 'although the statute may purport to give a higher interest in the land than the owne; could convey, yet it does not follow that such title is inoperative. It must at
least convey the interest which the owner has in the~lands. Or it
may be that a highar interest is conveyed. But whether such a
conveyance shall take effect as in fee, under the statute, when executed, or when the patent shall be issued, or at any time, it cannot
be necessary now to inquire. The only inquiry is, whether the land
should not-be estimated at its full value, and sold by the $tate for
the tax regularly assessed upon it. The effect of the title is. not
now before us for consideration., Tle conveyance of real estate,
whethei by deed or by operation of law, is subject to the law of the
state; and it is difficult to say that any restraint can be imposed
upon the local power on this subject. It cannot, however, convey
a better title to tde land sold for taxes than the orvner of such land2

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

46

'Carroll v. Safford.
to whom it stands charged, possessed at the time the taxes 'constituted a lien, or when the land was sold. Whether the legislature
may not change the character of a title, so as to make that a legal
title which before was only an equity, is a iery different question.
In" the case of the Lessee of Wallace v. Semour and Renich,
7 Ohio Rep. 156, the court held "that a purchaser at a sale for
taxes can acquire a right which can be enforced in equity, although
he h~ks been defeated at law." But that case grew out of the peculiar phraseology- of the statute. It was also decided that "where
lands have been entered and surveyed in the military district, and
sold for taxes before patented; that when patented, the patentee
should hold the land subject to any claim which a purchaser at taxsale may have in conseqdence of such -sale." And in Lessee of
Stuart v. 0. Parish, 6 Ohio Rep. 477, that a purchaser of land at a
tax-sale, before a patent was issued, could nbt set up, in an action
of ejectment, the tax-deed against the patentee. In Douglass v.
Dangerield, 10 Ohio Rep. 156, the court say, in referefice to taxing
lands before the patent has been issued; "if the right to tax exists,
and that it does there has not been any serious .question for .many
years at least, it would'seem to follow that the right to collect must
also exist."
Under the Michigan statutes, we have no doubt, the law-maling
power intend6d to tax lands that had been entered and paid for, as
the lands in question, and that it had the power to impose the tax.
The nature of the title of such lands,'under a tax-sale, not being
involved in the points certified, we will not further discuss.
In regard to the fourth point certified, we entertain no doubt, that,
in a proper case, relief niay be' given in a court of equity. This
may be done on the ground to prevent a cloud from being cast on
the complainant's title, or to remove such cloud; to prevent multi-plicity of suits, or.to prevent an injurious act by a public officer, for
which the law might give no adequate redress. We answer'all the
questions certified in the affirmative.

