556

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Freeman.

exception, as brought up'in the record; and some memorandums in
the handwriting of the late presiding judge of the Circuit Court have
also been laid before this court for the purpose of showing that an
exception was reserved to the part of the charge above referred to.
In relation to the excption stated in the record, the court think
it proper to say, that it contains a gr~at deal of argument which is
altogether out of place in: an-exception, and cbntrary to the directions of this court as given in the 38th rule: And it w6uld appear,.
from the copy of the charge. produced in- support of this motion,
that while much of the argument of the Circuit Court has been improperly inserted, the matter of law which the argument was intended to prove, and upon which the jury were instructed, is omitted. But this court has, not the power to correct any errors or
omissions that may have been made in the Circuit Court in framing
the exception;' nor can we regard any part of the charge as the
subject-matter of revision here, unless the judges, or one of.them,
certify,-under his seal, that'it was excepted to at-'the trial. If the
portion'of the charge, in relation to which the -diminution is suggested, was in fact enblaced in the exception, and the omission of
.it is a clerical error, hen, upon producing here-a copy of the exception properly certifi d, the Iilaintiff in error-will be-entitled to a certioran",in order to. suppl- the defedt.. But we can. in no respect
alter or amend the exception.certified under the seals of the judges
of the Circuit Court, either br referring t&he charge at length, or
the notes of the presiding judge,; and as the case is now presented,
the motion must be refused.

THs UNTvED STATES, PLAINTIFFS, V. WILLIAM H. FIEENAM.

Statutes in pari materia should be taken into consideration in construing a 11w.
If a thing contained in a subsequent statute be withiugthe reason of a former
statute, it.shall be taken to be within the meanifig of that statute.
And if -itcan be gathererfinum a subsequent statute in pan materia whai meahwill amount
ing the legislature attached to the words of a former statute, ithis
to a legislative declaration of its meaning, And will govern the construction
of the first statute.
The meriing of the legislature may be extended-beyond the precise words uged
in the law, from the reason or motive upon which the legislature proceeded,
from'the end in view, or the purpose which was-designed; the limitation of
the rule being, that to extend the meaning to any .case, not included within
the words, the case must be shown to come within the same reason upon
which the law-maker proceeded, and not a like reason.
A brevet field-officer of the marine corps is not entitled by law to brevet pay
and rations, by reason of his commanding a separate post or station; if the
force under.his command would not entitle a brevet field-officer of infantry,
of a similar grade to brevet pay and rations.

JANUARY .TERM, 1845.

557

The United States v. Freeman.
The act of 1834, chap. -132, does not -repeal the Ist section of the act of 1818,
regulating the pay end-emoluments of brevet officers.
The 5th section of the act of 30th June@ 1834, is a repeal of the joint resolution
of the two houses of Congress of the 25th May, 1832, respecting the pay and
emoluments of the marine corps.
By force of thd army regulation No. 1125, authorizing the issues of double rations to officers commandipg departments, posts, and arsenals, a brevet fieldofficer of marines is entitled to double rations. But the fact must be shown
that he had such a conmand of a post or.arsenal at which double rations'
had been allowed according to the army regulation .
The fact of appropriations having been made by Cdjigress for double rations
does not determine wfiat officers are entitled to them.,
A brevet field-officer of the marine corps, commanding .a separate post, without a command equal to his brevet rank, is not entitled to brevet pak and.
emoluments. 'But if such brevet officer is a captain in the line of his corps,
and in the actual command of a company, whether he is in the command -of
a post or not, he is entitled to the compenslation given by the 2d section of
the act of the 2d March, 1897.

Tmis case came up, on a certificate of division, from the Circuit
Coitt of the United States for the district of Massachusetts. : It was
to test the right of the defendant in error who was also the. defendant below, to certain pay, allowances, and emolumentsi which he
claimed as being an officer of the marine corps. The questions
which were certified to this court.were the following:"11. Whether a brevet field-officer of the marine corps is by law
entitled to receive the pay and -ratiots of his brevet rank by reason
of 'his commanding a separate post or station, although the force
under his command should not be such as would bylaw, or by such
regulations as have in this respect and for the time the force of lw,
entitle a breve field-officer of infantry of ,a similar grade to brevet
pay and ra ns?
"12. Whether the provision respecting brevet pay and rations in
the 3d secti6n of the act of 1818, chap. 117, is repealed by the act
of 1834, chaip. 132?
"3. Whether by force of the act of 1834, chap. 132, the joint
resolution of the .tw6 houses of Congress of the 25th of May,. 1832,
.respecting' the pay and emoluments of the marine corps, is re-.
pealed?
"4. Whether by .force of the army regulation, numbered ' 1125,
authorizing the issues of double rations to officers commanding departments, posts, and arsefials, a brevet field-officer of marines,
commanding a senarate post or. station5 is entitled to double rations ?
"5. Whether the additional fact of appropriatiois having been
made by C6ngress for such double rations, entitles'such marine
officer .to receive the same for the years for which such appropria•tions are made?
"fl. Whether a brevet field-officer of the marine corps, command:ng a separate post, and -receiving his brevet pay and emolumeiits, but being a captain in the line, is entitled to' the ten dollars
oA2

SUPREMxE COURT.
T]e United States v. Freeman.

a month additional compensation for responsibility of clothing, &c,,
-;applying to the iarine corps .the
under the act of 1834, chap.
act of 1827,. chap. 199 ?"
There was a statement of facts agreed hpon in the court below,
the only parts of wli'ch that bear upon the certified- questions are
th" folloing_" It is further- agreed that Colonel Freeman was commissioned a
captain in the line of the marine corps on the 17th of July, 1821,
and on -that lineal rank he was commissioned a lieutenant-colonel
by brevet'on the 17th of July, 1831, and on the 30th of June,
.1834, he" was commissioned a major in the line of the marine
corps.
" Colonel Freeman files'an account, in 8et-otf against the United
States, of$1013 93,,for brevet pay and rations while iicommand
on the Boston station, the same being a separate station or. detachment, under the provision of the, 3d section of an act of: Congress
of 16th April, 1814,. for the augmentatio of the marine corps.
Said amount extends from the 30th of June, 1834, to thest of
April, 1842, and has been presented to and disallowed by the fourth
auditur.
"Said Freeman fiDes ania~count also of $1666.for double rations
while in command'on be Boston station, between the 30th of June,
1834, and the 1st ph Ap6l, 1842, under a joint resolution of Congress of 26th- May,'1832. which account has also bebn prese'tect.to
"
and disallowed by the fouTth auditor.
"SaidFreeman files also an account of $354 69 for the responsibilities of clothing, &c., while a captain in .the line of the marine
corps, and in command of the mearines on the Boston sthffon, from
the 17th of July,'1 8 31, to the 30th of June, 1834, under an act of
'Congress of 30th June, 1834, making certain allowances, &c., to the
'captains and subalterns of the marine corps, as to officers of similar
grades in the army, under an. act of 2d March, 1827.; which account
has likewise been presentedto and disallowed by the fourth auditor
of the Treasury, on the •ground.that the defendant received the ay
of a grade higher than that of captain.11 Yt is further agreed that double rations have been paid heretofore and up to the 30th of June, 1884, to the officers of the marine
corps, in the manner and ag; stated in the letter of the fdurth auditor
of date 27th of April; 1842) and marked B, and annexed; also, that
,estimates and approriations were made, as stated ,insaid letter?
since 1834.
"Upon the foregoing facts, the case is submitted to the court; the
accounts of the said several claims of the said Freeman to be adjusted hereafter by the officers of the Treasury, if the same, or any
portion of them, are found by the court to be legally due.
DEXTER, U. S. Dist. Att'y.
FRANt
W. H. FP._EnmA."'

JANUA.RY TERM; 1845.

55

The United States-v. Free-man.

The laws will. be stated which bear upon -each of the three
items into which the account is divided, viz.: 1, Pay; 2, Rations;
3,. Clothing.
1. As to pay.
On the 6th of July, 1812, (2 Stoyiy.1278,) Congress passed an
"Act entitled an act -making further provision for the army of the
United States, and for other purposes," the 4th section of which was
.as follows:"That the President is hereby authorized 4n confer brevet rank
on such officers of -the army as shall distinguish themselves by gallant actions, or meritorious conduct, or who shall-have served ten
years in any one grade: Provided, That nothing herein contained
Asall be so construed as to entitle officers so br6veted to any addi,tional pay or emoluments, except when commandin separate posts,
districts, or detachmeitts, when they .shall be entitled to and receive
the same pay and -emolurx6nts to which officers of the same grade
ate now, or hereafter may be, allowed by law."
, On the 16th of April, 1814, Congress passed. an -act (2 Story,
1414) "authorizing an augmentation of, the marine corps and for
other purposes," the 3d sectiQn of which was exactly similar to the
above, except that-" officers of the marine corps" were substituted
for "officers.of the army," and that in the proviso' th&words "commanding separate stations or detachments" were substituted for
"commafnding separate posts, districts, or detachments."
On the 16th of April, 1818, an act was passed (3 Story, 1672)
regulating the pay and emoluments of breVet officers,"'the 1st
section of 'which was as follows:
"Be it enacted, &c., That the officers of the army who have
brevet corimissions shall be entitled to, and receive, the pay and
emoluments of their brevet rank when on duty and having a command according to their brevet rank, and at no other time.'!
In 1825, regulations foifhe-army were issued; .the 1124th section
was as follows:
"Brevet officers shall receive the piy and emoluments of their
brevet commissions, whea they exercise bommand equal to their
brevet rank; for example-a brevet caltaitl must command a corn-.
pany; a-brevet Major and a brevet lieutenant-colonel,-a batfalion;
a brevet colonel, a regiment; a brevet brigadier-general, a brigade;
a brevet major-general, a division."
On the 30th of June, 1834, Congress passed an act !"for the better organization of the United States maririe corps," (4 Story, 2383.)
After increasing the number of officers and privates, the 5th section
enacted:
"That the officers of the- marme-corps shall b6 entitled to, and
receive, the same pay, emolhments, and allowances, as are now, or
hereaftr may b6, -allowed to officers of similar, grades in the infantry
of the *rmy, except the adjutant and inspector, who shall," &c.. &c.
-

NO

ALT-P-REME. 'COURT.
The United

.tates-r. Free'man.

The '.th section provided that "the . commissions -of the -officers
now in the marine cerps shall not be vacated by this'act," &c.
The 9th secion Tepealed so muh -ofthe 4th section of the act of
""
the 6th.of July as authorized the President to -confer brevet rank on
such officers bf the army or of the marine corps as shall have served
ten years in any one grade.
The 10th. section, repealed all a6ts or parts of acts inconsistent
therewith.
Ith 1836,- anther --set of army regulations waa issued, the fortyeighth article of which contained the f6llowing:
" Offcers who -have -brevet commissions shall be entitled to receive :their bievet pay and emoluments, when on duty, under the
following circumstances:
"A brevet captain-, when commanding a company.
"A-brevet major, when commanding -two companies,, or when
actin' as major of the regiment.
"A brevet lieutenant-colonel, :'when' comimanding at least 6ur
companies, or. when acting'as'lieutenant-colonel of the regiment,
"A -brevet colonel, when eoinmanding nine companies' of artilpr tenof infantry or dragoons, or a mixed corps of ten cornor,
"
panies, or when commanding a regiment.
"A breVet brigadier-general, when commanding a brigade of-not
- less than two regiments or twenty'companles.-.
"-A brevet major-general, when commanding "adivision of four
regiments or-at least forty companies.
"A .brevet officer, when assigned' by the special order of the
secretary- f war to a particular duty and - command, according -to
his brevet-rank, although such-commayid be not in the line, provided .
his brevet allowances -are recdgnised -in the brde of assignient.
"To enfitle dfflicers -to brevet allowances while pcting as eldofficers of regiments according to their brevets,..they must be recognised at general head-quarters as being on such'duty, and the fact
announced accordingly in geiieral orders."
The laws relating to- rations are the followmi*,g:
2. Rations;.
On the 3d-of March, 179,7, (1 Story, 460,) Congrress- passea an
act to amend and repeal; in'part; the-act entitled "gin act to ascertain. and fix the military'establishment of the United States," the
4th .section-of which declared that "to each -officer, while commanding a separate p;st, 1h6re shall be- allowed. twice .the"number of
rations to- which. they would 6thewise Ire entiled;"I
,On the 16th of March, 1802j.(2 Story, 831,) an act was- passed
c xing the miltary peace est.ishpentof the-United States,"""he
5th se.ction. of :which designated the .number'of rations to which
each officer should beenitled and then-added as follo.vis,,.viz. : it to
,the c6mmanding officerS of each separate posts such additional.num.berof rations as the -President .of the United States shall, from timhe
-

-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

561

The United States v. Freem-an.

the special circumstances of each
to time, direct; having respect 0to
post."
On ihe 25th of May, 1832, (4 Story, 2333,)'Congress passed a
joint resolution as follows: "Resolved, &c., That the p~y, subsistence, emoluments, and allowances of officers, non-commissioned
officers, musicians, and privates of the United States marine corps,
shall be the same Es they were pr.-viously.to the 1st of April, 1829,
and shall so continue until they shall be altered by law:'
In 1834, the act was passed -which has already been mentioned
under th head of " Pay2
3. Clothing.
On the 2d of March, 1827, Congress passed an act, (3 Story,
2057,) the 2d section of which was as follows: That every officer.
in the actual command of a company in the army of .the United
States shall be eititl~d to receive 810 per month, additional pay,
as "1compensation for his duties and responsibilities, with respect to.
the. clothing, arms, and accoutrements of the coffpaiy, whilst hLe
shall be in the actual command thereof "
JV'elson, (attorney-general,).for the United States.
Colonel Freeman, (in a printed argumentJ the defendant in the
court below, for himself.
Nelson made the. following points:
1st. That a brevet field-officer of the marine- corps is not by law
entitled to receive the pay and rations of his brevet rank, under the
circumstances stated in this case.. 2d. That the provision respecting brevet pay and rations, in the
3d section of the act of 1818, chap. 117, is repealed by the act of
1834, chap. 132.
3d.. That the joint resolution of the two houses of Congress, of
the 25th of May 1832;'is repealed by the act of 1834, chap. 132.
4th. That a brevet field-officer of marines, commanding a separate post or station, .is not entitled to double ratiois by force of
Army Regulation, numbered 1125.
5th. That the additional fact of appropriations having been made
by Congress for double rations, does not entitle such marine officer
to receive the same, if otherwise not entitled thereto by law. *
6th. That a brevet field-bfficer of marines is not entitled to the
$10 a month, under the act of 1834, chap. 132, under the circumstances stated in the sixth question, certified-cinothe record.
He examined the subjects in the order mentioned above, of Pay,
Rations, and Clothing.
1. Pay..
He admitted that if.the act of 1814 is still in force, the defendant
is entitled to brevet pay; but it is not in force. The act of 1834
has changed the law; the 5th section puts the marine corps on the
same footing with the infantry. What, then, were the infantry enVoL. 1H-71

562

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Freeman.

titled to? To answer this question, 'we must look at the laws of
1812 and 1814, (the same in substance upon this point,) and also
the law of the 16th April, 1818, which expressly declares that officers of the army shall rebeive brevet pay when they have a command according to -their brevet rank, and at no other time. Before
they can claim the pay,-the condition must be shown to be complied
-with; but here it is admitted that Col. Freemarn had not such a
command.
The Army Regulations of 1825, reg. 1124, say that brevet officers.
are to receive pay only when the command is equal to the rank; and
those of 1836 say the same. Freeman was a lieutenant-colonel by
brevet, and had not-the command appropriate to that rank.
Does the act of 1834 repeal that of 1814? We say it does. It
purports to re-organize the marine corps; it makes great changes as
to the officers and their rate of pay; and the 7th section provides
that the commissions of the officers shall not be vacated. Why put
in such i clause; unless there was a design to put the corps upon a
new footing altogether? The 5th section changes the pay, emoluments, and allowances, and puts *them on the footing of infantry;
and the 10th section repeals all laws inconsistent with the act. The
acts of 1818 and 1834 repealed all former laws, both as to infantry
and marines.
2. Rations.
By the act of 1797, double rations were given to a commander of
a separate post; but the act of 1802 changed this rule, and silbstituted .another. Instead of giving them to every commander, the
President was to designate the number of rations 'for each post, according to circumstances. This was a repeal of the act of 1797.
They. cannot both stand.
But it is said that the joint resolution of 1832 changed the rule, as
to officers of marines, and rendered lawful the same pay, rations,
&c., which they had, in fact, received before 1829. Suppose we
admit this. That resolution looked to a future change, which was
made by th6 act of 1834, which referred not only to pay, but allowances and emoluments. Infantry are not entitled to these allowances, and therefore the marines cannot be.
These considerations furnish answers to the three first certified
questions.
With regard to the fourth, it maybe said that the army regulations
give double rations to such posts as the War Department shall authorize; but the act of 1802 says'that the President is the person who
is to give the authority; and supposing that the War Departinent
represents the special authority of the President, then we say, that
the Department never gave such authority for this post. The defendant must show that it did.
Besides, the regulation was not intended to apply to the marines.
They were under the Navy Department.

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

568

The United States v. Freeman.-

The 5th question is easily answered. If the defendant was not
entitled to the allowances by law, he cannot claim them because
Cong-ress placed money in the hands of the executive; in case it
should be wanted. The service might have been performed or it
might not, and the money wvas ready in case it should be performed.
But here'it was not.
3. Clothing.
Ten dollars per month were to be given to commanders of companies. But Freeman was.a major by commission, and lieutenantcolonel by brevet. The law only includes captains;. and, moreover,
the record does, not show that there was a company of marines at
Boston, and the'fact, I believe, was not so.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
Several questions o~curred upon the trial of this cause in the court
below, upon which the opinions of the judges were opposed, andthey were certified to this -court for decision.
From a careful examination of allithe acts of Congress relating to
the pay and emoluments of brevet officers, and those acts estabishing and organizing the marine corps, we are of the- opinion, whatever may have been a different practice, that the brevet officers of
the marine corps have always been by law upon the same footing
with other officers of the military establishment of the United States,
in respect to4he circumstances which entitle them to pay and emoluments, and that they continue to be so. Brevet pay and emolunments were originally given by the act of 1812, (2 Story's Laws, 178,)
and by the act of 1814, (2 Story's Laws, 1414,) when breveted officers
commanded separate posts, districts, stations, or detachments. But
an act was passed in 1818, (3 Story's Laws, 1672,) regulating the pay.
and emoluments of brevet officers, the 1st" section of which is, that
"1the officers of the army who have brevet commissions, shall be entitled to and sball receive the pay and emoluments of their brevet
rank, when on duty and havinga a command according to their brevet rank, and at no bther time. , 3 The 2d section is, "that no brevet
commission shall hereafter be conferred, but by and with the advice'
of the Senate." By the acts of 1812 and 1814, .they were conferred
by the President alone. By the 1st section of the act of- 1818, it
will be perceived that pay and einoluments were attached to command, and not, as they -had been, to the command of separate posts,
stations, districts, or detachments. That the act of 1818 repealed the
4th section of the act of 1812, no one doubts. But it is said, it is notfi
repeal of the 3d section of the act of 1814, because the act, in terms,
speaks of the officers of the army who have brevet commissions, and
not of such officers of the marind corps. It may be well to state,
that the 3d section of the act of 1814 is a transcript of the 4th section of the act of 1812, except that it has in it the words " officers
of the marine corps," instead of "1officers of the army;" and that the

564

SUPREME COURT.
The. Unite.d States v.Freeman.

words "stations . or detachments" were substituted for "posts, districts, or detachments." The first point for consideration is, was the
act of 1818 a repeal of the 4th section of the act of 1812, and of the
3d section of the act of 1814, as to the condition up6n which brevet
officers were-to have additional pay and emoluments? It is conceded
that'it repealed the 4th section in"
the act of 1812. We are of opinion that it repealed also the 3d section of the act of 1814. It cannot be denied that the marine corps is an addition to the "military
establishment of the United States." It is declared. to be so in the
act by which it was organized. Now, though neither that fact, nor
the words ",military establishm'ent," as they are used in the acts of
Congress, will of themselves authorize the inclusion of officers of the
marine"corps, within the words "officers of the army,'" yet considering the subject-matter of the act 'of 1818; the application of the 2d
section of the act to all breveted officers; and the assimilation of the
marine corps, by the act of 1814, to the army, to give to its office'rs
brevet commissions, and pay, exactly, tbo, in the same way as they.
were given to the officers of the'army, by the act of -1812;' we do
not see how, consistently with a correct judicial interpretation, the
conclusion can be resisted, that Congress did intend, in passing the
act of 1819," to place the officers of the marine, corps and the officers
of.the army upon the same footing, in respect to brevet pay and emoluments. Though what has been differently done is binding upon
the government, and cannot be recalled, to the pecuniary disadvantage of any. officer, who may have received brevet pay and emoluments, not according to the act of 1818, no erroneous practice under
it, of however long standing, can justify the allowance of a claim,
contested by the government, in a suit; contrary to what is the true
meaning and interkt of that act. * The error of the accounting officers
of the ireasury, and of. the officers of the marine corps, in the constructidn of the act 'of 1818, arose from that act having been consideied by itself, without 5 y reference to other. statutes relating to
brevet commissions and pay,- and without any examination whether
the words "officers of the army,') as used in the 1st section of the act
of 1818, though they are descriptive of a partictilar class, .were not
intended, fiom their connection with the subject-matter of the act, to
comprehend all officers of the military.establishment of the United
States, who, when the act vas passed, were 6nly under like circum,stances entitled to brevet pay and emoluments.
The correct rule of interpretation is, that if divers statutes relate
to the same thing, they ought all to bo taken into consideration in
construing *any one of them, 'and it is an established rule, of law,

that all acts in pazi materia are to be taken together, as if they were
one law. Doug. 30; 2 Term Rep. 387,'586 ; 4 Maule & Selw. 210.
If a thing c6ntained in a subsequent sitate, be within the reasort
.of a former statute, it shall be -taken to be within the meaning of..

that statute; 'Lord Raym. 1028; and if it can be gathered from: a

JANT'ARY- TER~M, 1845.

5

The United States v. Freeman.

subsequent statute in pan ateria, whatmeaning the legislature
attached to. the words of a former.-statute, thdy-will amount-.to,'a
Alegislative declaration of-its meaning, and will govern the construction, of 'he first statute. Morris v. Mellin- 6'Bam & Cress. 454;
7 Barn. & Cress. 99. Wherever any words of a statute are doubtful
r-obsexre, the intention of' th.legislature is to. be resorted to, in
order -to find the--mnaning of "he words. Wimbis
Tailbois,
Plowjl. 57:7-A-hingwhicijin witn fhe-iifentibn-of the makers of
the. statute, is as much wifl if the sfatute, 4s if it were within'the
letter. Zouch v. Stowell, Plowd. 366. These citations are but
different illustrations of the rile, that the meaning of the legislature
may be extended'beyond. the precise words used in the law, front
the reason-or motive upon which the legislature proceeded; from the
end hi view,, or the purpose which was designed-the limitation of
the rule being, that to'extend the imeaning to ainy cae not included
in the words, the case -mustbe shown to-come within the same reason upon which the lawmaker proceeded, and-not only within a like
- reason.
This court has repeatedly, in effect, acted upbn the rle,.
-and there may be found, in the reports of its'decisions, cases under
it, like the cases -hich have. been cited from the reports of the
English.ouprts. In-4-Dall._A, ' The intention of the legislature,
when discoverQd, must-prvail,-anyileof coiistructior declared-by
previous acts-to the contrary notwithstanding '." -In.2 Crafich, 33,
"A law is the best expositor *of itself-that every part of an act is
to be taken into view for the purpose-of discovering the mind of the
legislature," &c. &c. - In the case of the United States -v. Fisher
et al., Assignees of Blight, in the same book, the court said, Y it is
undoubtedly- a well-established principle in the exposition of
statutes, that every lartis to be considered, and the intention of the
legilature to be extracted froi the whole," &c. In 2 Peters, 662,
-*'A leislativi act is to be interpreted according to .the intention of.
the legislature,, apparent upon its face. Every technical rule, as to
the construction or force of particular terms, must yield to the clear
expression of the paiimount will-of the legislature." In Paine's 03.
C. Rep. 11, "In doubtful -cases, a court should'compare all the parts
of a statute, and different statutes inpari materia, to ascertain the
intention of-the legislature." So in 1 Brockenb. C.C. Rep. 162.
In the construction of statutes, one part niust be construed -by
another. In order to te. the legislative intention, the whole statute
must be inspected. " No one of the cases cited will justify; nor
have they been cited to saniction an equitable construction of.
statutes beyond the just application of adjudicated cases. They
have been br6ught iogether upon this* occasion- for the purpose of
hoiifg-ow-many-auhoriie§ th-efe are to sustain. the conclusion,
"tliatthie act ofT1818, regulating the payand, eribluments of brevet
officers, repealed the act of 1814, upon" which -the defendant relies
to, support his claim to brevet pay.. Our answer to the'first question3B

W6,

SUPREME COURT.
The-United States v. Freeman.

-

then is, that a. brevet field-officer of the marine corps is not entitled,
by law, to brevet pay and rations, by reason of his commanding a
separate post or station, if the force-under his command would not,
entitle a brevet field-officer of infantryof a similar grade, to brevet
pay and rations. We will add to,our exposition of the law upon
this point, that brevet officers of the marine corps, in respect to pay
and emoluments, were included under the Army Regulation 1124,
sanctioned on the 1st March, 1825; were included also, in the
regulation upon the subject of brevet pays sanctioped by the President Deeember 1, 1836, and that. they may claim brevet pay and
emoluments under the regulations of 1841, when they exercise a
command, according to the provisions regulating brevet pay, in
page - 344, Army Regulations of 1841. This right to brevet pay
results from the marine corps having been sibjected, by the act of
1-798, (1 Story's Laws, 542,) and by other acts of Congress, to the
same rules and aiticles of war "as are prescribed for the-military
establishment of the United States,'? and from the exceptiot in the
2d section of the act of 30th June, 1834, taling them out.of the
regulations whieh might be established for the navy, when detached
for service with the army, by order of ihe President of the United
States.
To the second- question We reply, that the act of 1834, ch, 132,
does not repeal the first section of the act of 1818, regulating the
pay and emoluments of brevet officers. That section of the act is
still in force, and upon it rests the -army regulations, in relation to
brevet pay and emoluments.- The act of 1834 only repeals those
sbctions in the acts of 1812 and '1814, 'and in the act of 1818 i by
which the President wds authorized to confek, and the Senate was
permitted to confirm, brevet commissions conferred upon officers of
the :army, or officers of the marine corps, for ten years' service in
any one grade, excepting such officers as-had, before the passage
of the act, acquired the right to have brevet rank conferred by ten
to
years' service in a~y one grade, if thd President should think fit
nominate them to the senate for brevet commissions.
To the third question we reply, that the 5th section of the act of
the 30th June, 1834, is a repeal of the joint resolution of the two
-houses oF Congress of the 25th May, 1832, respecting the pay and
emoluments of the marine corps.
The fourth question involves the charge made by the defendant
for double rations. Additional rations are provided for by the 5th
section of the acf of 1802, (2 Story's Laws, 831.) "To thfe commanding' officer of each separate post, such. additional number of
rations as the President of the United States shall, from time to time,
direct, -having respect to th6 special circumstances of each post," is
the language of a part of the section. It is the authority for the
1125th paragraph in the Army Regulations of 1825. The Prekident
sancioned those regdlation~s, and by. doing so, delegated his author-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

567

The United States v. Freeman..
ity, as he had a right to do, to the secretary at war.' The Army
Regulations, when sanctioned by the President, have the force of
law, because it is done by him by the authority of law. The Regulations of 1825, theu,.were as conclusive upon the accounting officer of the Treasury, whilst they continued in force, as those of 1836
afterwards were, and as those of 1841 now are. When, then, an
.officer presents, with his account, an authentic document or certifi.
cate of his having commanded a post or arsenal, for which an order
has been issued from the War Department, in conformity with the
provisions of the Army Regulations, allowing double rations, his
right to them is established, nor can they be withheld, without doing
him a wrong, for which the law gives him .a remedy.,. But as the
question in this case must be decided upon the agre d statement of
facts in the record, between Colonel Freeman and the District
Attorney of the United States, we have no hesitation in answerin"
it adversely from the claim of the defendant, for double rations, as
the fact does not appear in the record, that he had such a command
of a pdst or arsenal, at which double ratiens had been allowed,
according to the Army Regulationsqwhich were in force, from the time
his account begins, or accordingt6 those subsequently sanctioned by
the President. To the fifth question, we reply, that the fact of
appropriations having been made by Congress for doublerations, does
not determine what officers in command are entitled to them. The
sixth question relates to the charge of the defendant for compensation for his duties and responsibilities, with respect to clothing, arms,
and accoutrements," while he was a captain in the line of the
marine corps, and -incommand of the marines on the Bostoli station. The question, as it is put, makes it necessary for us to repeat
what'has been already said in a previous part of this opinion, that a
brevetfield-officer of the marine corps,, commanding a separate
post, without a.cbmmand equal to his brevet rank, is not entitled
to brevet pay and emoluments. But if such brevet officer is a captain in the line of his corps, and in the actual command of a company, whether he is in command of a post or not, he is entitled to
the compensation given by the 2d section of the act of the 2d
March, 1821,.(3 Story's Laws, 2057.) We cannot give any other
answer to this question, because the first part of it attaches brevet
pay and emoluments to the command of a separate post, for which
it is not allowed by law,'-and cannot therefore influence any right to
compensation which may have accrued to a captain-in'the line under
the 2d section of the act of"the 2d March, 1827. That act is -n
full force, unrepealed in any way by the act of 1834, for the better
organization of the marine corps. 4 Story, 2383. Atnd captains'
and subalterns. of that corps are as much entitled to its provisions,
as any other captains or subalterns in the military establishment of"
the jUnited States. If there was any doubt of this, ba-fore the act
of 1834 was passed, the 5th section of that act iust be considered

568"

SUPREME COURT.
'Andrews v. Wall et aL

as having put an end to it. It-is, "that the officers of the marine
corps shall.be entitled-to, and receive the same pay, emoluments,
and allowances, as ire now, or may hereafter be allowed to similar
grades in the infantry of the army,"' subjebt to the exception in the
section4following-the words just cited.
We shall direct the foregoing answers to the questions, upon
which the judges in the court below were opposed in opinion, to be
-certified to that court.

1&xzs B. ANImaws, APPELLANT, V. WILLIAM H. W=AN

'Jw
JoHN H.

GEiGR "DiF"ENDANTS.
'An agreement of consortship befween the masters of two vessels engaged in
the business known by the name.of wrecking, is a contract capable of being
enforced in an admiralty court0
st property or proceeds in the custody
of the court;
The case of Ramsay v. Allegre; 12 Wheaton, 611, commented on, and explained.' '
. I •
Such an agreement extends to "the'o -ers and crews, and is not merely per.
. -sonal between the mnaster..
'If
made for an indefinite period, it does not expire with the mere removal of
one of -the masters from, his vessel,'but continues until dissolved upon due
notice to the adverse party.'
Where there is no other evidence.tlian.ahe- answer of its having been a part of
the' original agreeinent, that suchrremva should dissolve the contract, the.
evidence is not sufficient.,
Whenever proceeds' are rightfully in the possession and custody df the admiralty, it is an inherent. iticideit- to the jurisdiction of that court to entertain supplementar suits by the prties in -interest to ascertain to whom those
proceeds rightfully belong, and to delipr- thenx over, to the parties who
,establish the lawful ownership thereof
.

Tins was an appeal from the Court of Appeals in-Florida, and
grew out of the following circumstances:There were two vessels, c e called the Globe, and the.'other the
George Washington,'engagewi in'the business" 'of astixg ve2sels
which were wrecked, 6r in danger of becoming so, on-the coast of
Florida. Between these two there existed-the agreement of con:
sortship, whith will he spoken- of presently.
-For assistance rendered by the Globe to the ship Missiasppi
and cargo- an amount of $5522-1,49 was decreed as salvage..
drews, the appellant was part on6ndr of the Globe, and Wall and.
Geiger, the defendants in error, were- part owners of the Geoie
Washington.
Wall and Geiger filed a petitibn in the Superior Court for the
southern district of Florida, beinig the same court V.hiah decreed
the salVge,) as follows .-

