SUPREME COURT.

LEssEE oF WILLIAM L. BROWN AND WIFE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V.
JOSEPH CLEMENTS AND JONATHAN IUNT, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.

Under the act of Congress, providing for the subdivision of the public lands,
and the instructions of the secretary, of the Treasury, made under the act of
24th April, 1820, entitled "An act, making further provision for the sale .of
the public lands," it is the duty of the surveyor-general to layout a fractional*
section in such a manner that an entire quarter-section may be had if the
fraction will admit of it.

-

The surveyor-general has no right to divide a fractional section by arbitrary
lines, so. as to prevent a: regular quarter-section from being taken up.

THis case was brought up, by writ of error, under the twentyfiifh section of the Judiciary Act, from the Supreme Court of the
state of Alabama.
It was an ejectment, brought by the plaintiffs in error to recover
2A acres of land, in the possession of Clements as the tenant of
Iunt.The plaintiff claimed title through a patent to James Etheridge, and the defendants through a patent to W. D. Stone. Both
Etheridge and Stone claimed as pre-emptioners under the act of
Congress, passed on the 29th of May, 1830.
The question depended upon the manner in which the fractional
section twenty-two, in township four south, of range one west, in.
the district of lands subject to sale at St. Stephens, Alabama, should
be laid out.
A reference to the annexed diagrams will make it more intelligible,
4
3
7 '

I
*

I

-

"

I

*

I

9 12

•
\

'8

,

8

10-

£

92.67 11050

IA

-I_______

B

6

1
5
2
1
11
5
Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4 represent the whole section; but in consequence
of prior claims or grants, only that part of it included within 1, 5, 6,
7, 8, 9, 10, was subject to entry, containing the entire south-west
quarter section, and some additional land upon the east and north.
The surveyor divided the whole of this into two parts by a line running from 11 to-12, one of which parts (marked A) contained 92'67
acres, and the other (marked B) contained 110"50 acres. The

XXNUARY

TERM, 1845.

651

Brown's Lessee v. Clements et al.

plaintiff claimed toextend the part A over the whole square which
constituted the quarter-section, as represented by dotted lines.
On the 28th of January, 1831, Etheridge presented the following
application and affidavit:
"To the Register and Receiver of thbe.Land-office at St. Stephen's:
"You Will please to take notice that I, James Etheridge, of Mobile countv, Alabama, claim the right of pre-emption, under the act
of Congress of the 29th May, 1830, to the south-west quarter-section 22, t. 4, r. 1 west."
.8fgdavit.-"1James Etheridge, being sworn, maketh oath that
the above dqscribed tract of land was-planted and cultivated by him
in the year 1829, and remained in his possessio.n from the year 1829
until after the 29th. May, 1830. That the said land was occupied
and cultivated by him in his own right, and not as the tenant of any
other person. Tfhat the said land was enclosed with his own fence,
and thit there was no pjerson concerned with him in the occupation
and cultivation of the said land; and that the present claim does not
interfere with the right of any other person, and that he believes he
is entitled to the same under the act of Congress of the 29th May,
1830, and that the said tract is within the corporate limits of the
city of Mobile.
J. ETHERIGE."
The affidavit was sustained by the oaths of Daniel Robertson and
John Carr.
On the 25th of March, 1831, Stone presented the following application and affidavit:
"To the Register and Receiver of the Land-office at St. Stephen's,
Alabama.
"You will please to take notice that I,'William D. Stone, of Mobile county, Alabama, claim the right of pre-emption, under the act
of Congress of the 29th of.May, 1830, to the -fractionsituated in the.
west part of the south-east quarter of section 22, in township 4,
range 1, west of 13.
WLm:A' D. SToNE."'
* .fldavit.-"William D. Stone, being sworn, maketh qath 'that the
above described tract of land was planted and cultivated by him in the year 1829, and remained in his possession from the"year 1829
until the 29th May, 1830, and that the said land was occupied and
cultivated by him in his own right, and not as the tenant of any
other person. That the said tract of land was enclosed with I
own fence, and that there -was no person concerned or .ronnected
with.bim in -the cultivation of the said land, and that this present
claim does not interfere with the rights of any other person; and
further, that the tract described is within the present corporate limits
of the city of Mobile,.
W LtLm D. SToNE."
The affidavit was supported by the oaths of Samuel H. Garrow.
and James Dowell.

652

SUPREME COURT.
Brown's Lessee v. Clem-ents'et a].

On the 20th of June, 1831, te register and receiver issued the
following certificate:
E.-Extract from abstract of claims to pre-emption,,under the act
of 29th May, 1830.
"Land-offce, St. Stephen's, .Alabama.
Abstract o claims to pre-emptions to lands that are reported to have
been surveyed,.but the township plats not ftmished to this office.
m c k m ed
'. B yza oh

w'-I

-.

j~

Stone
m.D.

D

Qw

T.

Bad- .t.

7

nity .

i . .

.

1-W-.
I---. ---

. rctioii 2 nd i
Alilying south'of310 except claim No.40.

"Land-oflce, St. SLphens, .Ala.,June 20, 1831.
It is the opinion of the undersigned, that the foregoing claimants
are each entitled to the right of pre-emption, under the act of Congress of the 29th Nay, 1830, to the tract or tracts by them claimed,
and annexed to their nam !s respectively, in the foregoing abstract.
JoHN B. HAzmm; Register.
J. H. Owix, Receiver."
The account of sales was' entered in the book at some period
which the record does not show, and was as follows:
Extract from account of land sold by register and receiver.
"Account of-lands sold, and moneys entefed in payment therefor, in
April, 1832.
I

Bi~Suia

~

.W.
3a esEtheridge'Mobile4,539
It.
103
WOLD.Stone I Do 4,547jS. B.

2%4 .

20.1W.
.
dv.q'o
q r22

0

1

n
,67
05 1 2s 115 8.Pre50. Stat
128 3
17

On the 30th of April, 1832, the register gave to Etheridge the
following eertiflcate;
4.-Cetficate.
"Pre-emption No. 4,539, act 29th May, 1830.
"Land Ofice, St. Stephen's, A.la., Aril 30, 1832.
"It is hereby certified, that, in pursuance of law, James Etheridge,
of Mobile coiinty, Alabama,. on this day purchased of the register
of this office, the lot or south-west quarter of section number twenty.
-two, of township No. 4 south, in range number one west, containing ninety-two 1 acres, at the rate 'ofone dollar and twenty-five
cents per acre, amounting to one hundred and fifteen 7. dollars$

653

JANUARY TERM, 1845.
Brown's Lessee v. Clements et aL

for which the said James Etheridge has,'made payment in full, as
required by law.
"Now, therefore, be it known, that on.-presentation of this certificate to, the commissioner of the General Land-office, the said James
Etheridge shall be entitled to receive a patent for the lot above deJoHN B. HAzARD, Register."

scribed.

On the same day a certificate was issued to Stone, as appears
from the following extract from the record of certificates isiued for
lands sold.
"Record of certificates issued for lands sold, &c.
=,:6_00= - Mo.

Nom.

Res&W".
See. ory'tOfse TI. .

1832.I
APl3s

4,529
4,574

92 67 f'
22 - 22
therldge M[obIIle
3re,
Do. co. Southwest
S.E.snb.fra.
22 44 1W.
1W. 10 50
W .D.Stone

DI

. C

25 113 83
138 13

On the 17th of December, 1832, a patent was issued to Stone.
It granted the land described in the following preamble:
"Pre-emption certificate, No. 4549.-The United States of America,
to all to whom these presents shall come, greeting:
"Whereas William D. Stone, of Mobile, has deposited in the
General Land-office of the United States a certificate of the register
of the Land-office at St. Stephen's, whereby it appears that full payment has been made by the said William D. Stone, according to
the act of Congress of the 24th of A.pril, 1820, entitled .'"An act
making further provision for the sale of the public lands," for the'
south-east subdivision of fractional section twenty-two, in township
four, south of range one west, in the district of lands subject to sAle
at St. Stephen's, Alabama, containing one hindred and ten acres
and fifty one-hundredths of an acre, according to ihe offibial plat of
the survey of said- land returned to the General Land-office by the
surveyor-general, which said tract has been purchased by the said
William D. Stone.
"Now know ye," &c., &c.
On the 30th of May, 1833, a patent was issued to Etheridge for
the land described in the preamble.
"Pre-emption certificate; number 4539.
"The United States of America, to all to whom these presents shall
come, greeting:
"Whereas,. James Etheridge, of Mobile county, Alabama, has
deposited'in the General Land-office of the United States a certifigate of the register of the Land-office at St. Stephen's, whereby it
appears that payment has been made by the said James Etheridge,
d
3 12

654

SUPREME COURT.
Brown's Lesqee.v. Clements et 41,

according to the provisions of the act of Cbngress of the 24th April,
1820, entitled "An act,making further provisions for the sale of the
public lands," for the south-west quarter of section twenty-two, in
township four, south of range one west, in the district of lands subject to sale at St. Stephen's, Alabama, containing ninety-two acres
and sixty-seven hundredths of an acre, according to the official plat
of the survey of the said lands returned to the General Land-office
by the surveyor-generalwhich said tract has been purchased by the
said James Etheridge.
"Now know ye," &c., &c.
In April, 1838, .Brown and wife, claiming under the title of
Etheridge, brought an ejectment against Clements for the east half
of the south-west quarter of fractional section twenty-two. The
case came on for trial at the April term, 1841, in the Circuit Court
of th6 state of Alabama'for the county of Mobile, in the course of
which the following bill of exceptions and agreement were filed.
Bill of Exceptons.
"Be it remembered, that upon the trial of this cause, the plaintiffs gave in evidence the paper hereto annexed, marked A, being a
duly certified copy of a patent from the United States governmefit
to James Etheridge; and thereupon, it was admitted by thedefend-.
ants, that the plaintiffs had, at the date of the demise, an4 tiine of
trial, all the rights of, said patentee Etheridqe in the land described
in the declaration. Plaintiffs also gave in evidence paper marked
B, hereto annexed, being a plat of a survey made and returned,
undbr an order of this court, by the surveyor for the county of Mobile, and proved by said surveyor'that said survey was truly made,
according to said order, and that the plat returned shows correctly
the external lines and corners of said fractional section twenty-two.
That he found the south-west corner of said fractional section, as
shown by the plat returned; and also found, on the section lines of
said fractional section, the half mile posts, each post being a half -mile
from the south-west corner of said fractional section. That these
posts bore evidence of being those .put down by the United States
surVeyor, on running .the section lines. That an entire south-west
quarter exists in said fractional sectioni, without interference with
any private land claim, andp leaving a residuum both on the north
and on the east 6f said quarter-section, as shown by the plat returned
by him I and also, that &aidfractibnal section contains two hundred
and ten acres. The defendants admitted .that they were in possession5 at the time' of service of the declaration, of-sixteen acres of the
land described in the declaration. The defendants gave in evidence, by consent of plaintiffs, a certified copy of a patent from the
United States government to William D. Stone, hereto annexed,
marked No. 1;,and thereupon, it was admitted by the plaintiffs,
that the defendants have all the rights of the said patentee, Stone, in

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

655

Brown's Lessee v. Clements et al.

the land admitted to have been in their possession at the time of the
service of the declaration.
1CThe.dsfendants offered in evidence duly certified copies of the
official township plats of 1832 and 1835, of the township in which
the land sued for is situated, (extracts from which are hereunto annexed, marked No. 2,) to show the boundaries and contents of the
land described in said patents to said Etheridge and to said Stone,
without having offered, or professing to have any other evidence
than the plats themselves afford, to prove that the subdivision, corners, andline dividing said fractional section, as exhibited in the
said
plats, bad been run and marked on the ground. To the admission
of which evidence the plaintiffs objected; and their objection was overruled, and said plats allowed to go to the jury. The
plaintiffs admitted, that if the line, as. marked on said extract-from
plats (No. 2) dividing lots A and B, is'a legal line, lot B, as exhibited, will cover the land sued for..
1The plaintiffs further gave in evidence, -that the said line and
corers, as exhibited on the extract; (No. 2,) had never been run or
marked on the ground; and also gave in-evidence papers marked
C, D, E, F, G, Hbeing duly certified transcripts of records from
the Land-okice at St. Stephen's, Alabama.
"The defendants gaye in evidence piper marked No. -3, being a
duly certified copy of the instructions of the secretary of the Treasury, bearing date the 10th day of June, 1820, also 20th January,
1826.
"1The plaintiffs gave'in evidence paper marked I, being a. duly
certified copy of the circular of the secretary of the Treasury, of
date the 8th day of May, 1832.
1 "Upon the foregoing evidence, the court instructed the jury, that.
if they believed the same, they miust find for the defendants. The
court further instructed the jury, that if said fractional section (No.
22) was capable of being subdivided into an entire south-west quarter-section and two half qiiarter-sections,'leaving a residuum asshown
by the said map and. evidence of tie county surveyor, still the
surveyor-general 'was not required, under the acts of Congress providing for the-subdivisioh-of the public land, and the instructions of
the secretary of the Treasury, made under the act of the 24th of
April, 1820, entitled ' An act making further provision, for the sale
of the public lands,' to make, in his stibdivision of the same, either
such quarter-section or half quarter-sections, but might lawfully
subdivide the same. into two lots, (A and B,) as indicated by said
i]at of 1832; and that under said evidence, Etheridge's title would
not hold thewholb south-west quarter of said fractional section, but
only lot A, and that Stone's title. would hold lot B, being the
balance of said fractional section.
"To which instructions, and each and every of them, the plain-

656

SUPREME COURT.
Brown's Lessee v. Clements et al.

tiffs, by their counsel, except, and pray the. court to sign and seal
this their bill of exception.q.
E. L. D.ARGAN. [sEAL .]"
Agreement of the partiesr."The parties to this cause, not wishing to encumber the record by
copying from the book entitled ' General Public Acts of Congress
respecting the sale and disposition of the public lands, with instructions issued from time to time by the secretary of the Treasury and
"commissioner of the General Land-office, and official opinions of
the'attorney-general on questions arising, under ihe land laws,' and
which instruction's are contained in the 2d volume, part 2d, prepared
and printed by order of the Senate agree that said book may be
used by either party, and any thing therein, contained read. as illustration of the practice-of the Land-office, and construction that the
acts of Congress had received in that branch of the government.
The same work can be referred to by either party in the Supreme
Court,, for the purpose aforesaid. The parties-further agree, that for
exhibit No. 2, being the official map of the survey of the township
described in the patents of both plaintiffs and defendants, the map
contained in the same book above described, between pages 134
and 135, shall. be referred to as if the same was incorporated with,and formed'a part of the record in this cause.
SkkMiAN-& CHAMBERS,
Attorneys for plaintiffs.
GoRnoN, C

Pn.ELL & CHANDLER,

Attorneys for defendants."
The jury having found for the defendants under the above instructions, the case was carried to the Supreme Court-of the state of
Alabama, where the opinion of.the court below was affirmed.
A writ of error broiight it to this court.
Willis Hall andcSherman, for'the plaintiff in error.
Jones, for the defendants in error.
Hall stated the case, and claimed- the' entire quarter-section. It
was not within the exceptions of the act of-1830, being neither
-'reserved nor appropriated. The agent of the United, States cannot
prescribe any other conditions than those which. are found in the
law, The south-west quarter of section 22 is a specific thing. A
patent was issued to Etheridge for it.- It is true that the patent says
that it contains only ninety-two 'aces and sixty-seven hundredths,
but this is mere surplusage, and "does not detract from the legal
efficacy of 'thegrant. 6 Cowen, 706.
The defendant in error settled upon the south-east quarter, but
there were previous claims to a part of -it, which had a preference,
and he only claimed what remained. Stone's claim to the southeast quarter was put in 'three months after ours. In order to effect
a valid title- under the pre-emption, law, three things are required,

JANUA'RY TERM, 1845

057

'Brown's Lessee v. Clements et al.

1. The land must belong to the United States, and be unappropriated.
2. It must conform to the regular and legal subdivisions.
3. The settlement must be upon the quarter-section which is
claimed.
The patents of the parties in this case do not 'clash with each
other. One is'for the south-west quarter-section, and the other for
the south-east subdivision. A subdivision is not a legal term, and
is synonymous,.in this case, vith quarter..The part claimed by the
defendant in error'is -called by' different names, for example, "a
fraction of '22," ".south-east subdivision,'- "fraction and south-east
subdivision.", and "south-east "sub-fraction." They all mean the
same thing, which 'is, a fractional part 6f-the south-east quartersection. .The dispute has ariseni be6ause the surveyor has drawn
a line not authorized by law, dividing the section into two parts.
The authority which is supposed to exist for such a line is the law
of 1820, (1 Land Laws, 323;) but we say that this law does not
apply to the case, or' if it does, that it is controlled, by the act. of
1830, which says that we are entitled to a quarter-section. But
these, laws are not inconsistent with each other. 13 Peters, 498.
All the lawsbeginnng with the ordinance of 1785, which directs
the public.lands'to be laid off into townships, and coing down to
the law of 132; (1.Land Laws, 493,) have the same system in
view, viz.: rudilig the'lines' geographically, and laying the land
ff1to squares, \The acts of 1804 -and 1805, (1 Land Laws,
104,108,) requiring, lands to be laid out and offered for sale in
quarter-.soctions, are unrepealed, for the act of 1820 refers to them,
and recogises ,the same mode of running out the lines. Laws
must be contrued t'ether. Dwarris on Stat.' 674. The act of 1820
supposes that the land is already laid off in quarter-sections, and not
that new lines are to be run. The reference to the rules which the
secretary of the Treasury is authorized to prescribe, is to the manner
of executing the established provisions ofexisting laws, and not that
the systeia itself should be changed.'- The word .'fraction"- in the
law mut be construed to mean the piece which is left after a
quarter-section is carved out. The object of all the land -laws
(which Mr. Hall examined in.detail) is twofold. 1st. To avoid a
conflict ,s to boufidaries, because each man's possession is a regular
geometrical figure; and, 2d. To guard against favouritism and partiality, by requiring the whole figure to be purchased. After the
surveyor-general had run these lines, he was functus oficio, and had
no right to obliterate them, unless by a fresh act of Congress.' We
contend:
1. That this quarter-section is given to us by the act of 1830.
2. That there have been -no laches on our part.
3. That we have the higher equity, our claim being two or- three
months earlier than that of-the other side.
VoL. 1J.--83

658

SUPREME COURT.
Brown's Lessee v. Clements et al

Merman here gave niotice, that in his reply, he should refer to the
following authorities. 6 Craiclh, 237; 1 Paine's C. C. Rep. 494;
4 Wash. C. C. Rep. 45; 2 Porter's Ala. Rep. 42, 43; 7 Porter's
Ala. Rep. 351, 360, 432; 3 Stew. Ala. Rep. 76; 1 Peters, 655;
Stat. Alabama, 283 ; 13 Peters, 436, 498; 4 La. Rep. 547; 13 La.
Rep, 547; 1 La. Rep. 56.
Jones, for defendant in error.
Both patents can stand. The parties are both pre-emptioners,
and entered and paid for their land on the same day, and received
certificates for'it. Our patent 'is the elder. What does it grant?
The description of the property is, the "south-east 'subdivision,"
&c., "according to the official plat of the surveyor." We must,
therefore, look at the official survey, returned before the patent
issued. It is the same thing as if it had actually been inserted in the
body of- tle patent. There are two subdivisions marked upon it,
and no one can doubt which is the south-eastern. It'corresponds,
also, with the original entry, which we find to be one hundred and
ten and a half acres. The patent contains the exact technical description of the land, as claimed by us.
The argumefit upon the other side is, that the surveyor-general
had no right to lay off the land in these two subdivisions, and that
his act, bding illegal, is void. But- if 'he has done an illegal act,
does that destroy our title? This section is a fractional one, containing only two hundred and three acres, forty-three more than a
quarter-section. Were we bound to divide this into half or quartersections ? Had not the secreary of the Treasury power to adapt the
mode of laying it out to thestate of the country? The act of Congress was prospective; and designed to provide for just such a case
as this. What is leff of the section, after satisfying elder claims, is
singularly shaped, and could not have been laid out into squares.
ft is made an objectiori to the subdivision by the,-urveyor, that
the dividing line was never run and marked upon the ground. But
if this be sound, it ,,ill impeach every title made under that survey.
The irregularity of the figure is no objection to the subdivision, for
the act of 1820 provides for the case. It directs whole sections to
bhe laid offby north and south lines, but fractional sections 'are left to
the judgment of the secretary of the Treasury. The act ,of 1830
introduces no new system for the benefit of pre-emptioners, but refers
to the system which was then in existence. Under it; if an entirequarter-section 'had been laid out, there would have been only forty
acres left,, and if several claimants had been living on it, it would
have. been impossible to divide the land amongst them all.

Sherman, in reply, laid down the following propositions:
1. That Etheridge's patent, legally construed, will hold the whole

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

659

Brown's Lessee v. Clements et al.

"south-west quarter" of fractional section number 22, according to
his claim, allowance, and right, under the pre-emption law.
2. That Stone's patent for "the "south-east subdivision" of said
section, legally'construed, will li61d only the south-east legal subdivision of the same; and that the south-east fractional quarter is such
south-east "legal subdivision," according-to his claim and right
under the pre-emption law.
3. That if the patents cannot be legally so construed as to avoid
conflict, yet that Etheridge's preliminary title, and rights under the
,pre-emption law, are sufficient to authorize the plaintiffs to recoier;
and that, under the statutes of A]abama, the certificate issued to Eteridge, which is older than the certificate or patent to Stone, is sufficient to authorize the plaintiffs to recover.
These lands were surveyed in 1820, and the comers marked. It
is stated in the record that they found the south-west corner and the
half-mile posts all marked. Ethiridge's patent includes the whole
of the south-west quarter, and the granting clause is not restrained
by 6 reference to the number of acres, which is-merely ctescriptive.
See the authorities already cited, and also, 5 Mason, C. C. R. 410;
1 Peters, C. C. R. 496; 6 Cowen, 706.
The pre-emption act of 1830 says that persons must take some
legal subdivision. The direction is positive on this subject. The
south-west quarter was such a subdivision, and created in 1820,
when the lines were run. There were three corners established
then, and any one could -run the fourth line; and the fact of the case
is, that these section lines are the only ones which were ever run.
The.system was adopted in 1805. .Under it, quarter-sections could
befound without being run out, because" half-mile posts were put
down. The law, then, created this quarter-section, which was established as soon as the posts were planted. Etheridge lived' in sight
of a post. The lines which the surveyor makes upon paper are not
boundaries, but are raerely indicative of subdivisions Which the law
has created. 5 How. Miss. Rep. 751.
A quarter-section is a definite, precise, legal thing. 2 Laws and
Instructions, 180, 181, 183, 184, 187; 4 Stewart & Porter, 396;
7 Porter, 432.
Etheridge's patent is not for the lot A, which runs into the northwest quarter-section.
The act of 1805 speaks of corners and lines not run out; and the
2d section of the 'act of 1796 (Land Laws, 51,) shows what the surveyor-general must return, by directing that his plat must be made
up from field-books. 2 Porter's Ala. Rep. 40; 3 Stew. 76; 7 Porter, 432,,434, 435; 3 Stew. 396.
These two certificates 'being issued by the same officer, on the
same day, must be interpreted so as to avoid a conflict between them.
Lot A cannot be held under Etheridge's patent, because it runs out
of the south-west quarter. Stone's is described to be the south-east

660

SUPREME, COURT.
Brown's Lessee v. Clements et al

subdivision; but what is that, and how car it be found, as no lines
were ever run upon the ground? 2 Lind Laws, 303,820, 787,
999, 826, 8217.
In instructions from the commissioner, dated January 20,.1826,
a-fractional section is defined to.be "1atrant of land not bounded by
sectional lines on all sides, in consequence of the intervention of a
navigable stream, or some,other boundary-recognised by law, and
containing a less quantity than six-hundred :nd forty acres;" and
the surveyor is directed, in "subdividing fractional sections, containing one hundred and sixty acres and upwards," to "cdesigate
as many full half-quarter-sections as practicable, arid the residuary
lot will then be a fraction of the fractional quarter-section of which
it forms a part. 2 Land Laws, 853, 854, 921, 933 934, 136.
Mr. Justice McKINLEY delivered-the opinion-of the court.
This case conies before this court on a writ of error to the Supreme
Court ofthe state of Alabama..
I The plaintifis brought an action of ejectment against the defehdAnts, in the Circuit Court for the'county of Mobile, in said state; and
upon 4etrial, they read'in evidence the following claim and'entry:
"To the register and receiver of the Land-office at St. Stephen's: You
will please-to take,notice, that I, JamesEtheridge, of Mobile county,
Alabama, claim the right of pre-emption, under .the -act of Congress,
of the 29th of May, 1830, -to-the suth-west quarter-section 22,
township 4,-range 1 west-;" -and that, on the 28th day of Janiary,
1831, the said James Etheridge made the necessary proof that he
had planted and cultivated said quarter-section in the year 1829,
and remained in possession until after the 29th day of May, 1830.
The plaintiff also read in evidence a patent from the United States,
bearing date the 30th day of May, 1833, reciting that, "Whereas
James Etheridge, of Mobile county, Ajabama, has deposited in the
General Land-office of the United States, a certificate of the register
of the Land-office at St. Stephen's, whereby it appears that payment
has been~made by the. said James Etheridge, according to the provisions of the act of Congress of the 24th of April, 1820, entitled 'An
act making further provision for the sale of the public lands,' for the
south-west quarter of section -22, in township 4, south of range 1 west,
in the district of lands siibject to sale at St. Stephen's, Alabama, containing ninety-two acres.and sixty-seven hundredths of' an acre, according to the official plat of the survey of the said lands, returned to
the General Land-office, by the surveyor-general, which said tract has
been purchased by the said James Etheridge:
"Now know ye, that the United States-of America, in consideration of the premises, and in .conformity with the several acts of Congress, in such case made and provided, have given and granted, and
bythese presents do give and grant, unto the said James Etheridge,
pud tolis heirs, the said trAct'above described," &c,

JANUARY TERM, 1845.
Brown's Lessee v. Clements pt al.

661

In obedience to an order of the Circuit Court, the surveyor-.of
Mobile county went upon the land in controversy, and made an actual survey, and returned a plat thereof into court, showing that the
section 22 -was covered by private land claims, except the whole of
the- south-west quarter, on which James Etheridge had made his
entry; and a small fraction in the south-east quarter, entered, under
and afraction
Stone;
law, by William
the pre-emption
was
-which plat 'the
secti6n;
of said
quartersD.
and nbrth-west
"north-east
given in evjdence-to the jury. _And the plaintiffs proved, by the~
sec-.
fractional
of- saidon
south-west
that he found
surveyor,
the-sectiouialso found,
andcorner
by the platthereturned;
shown

tion as

lines of said fractional section, the half-mile posts, each post being
south-west corner, of said
a mile from .the eveenceof-beg-.those
half
the surdown by section;
putfractional
tht these

veyor of the United States, on ruunni-the section lines; that an entire south-west quarter-sction-exists n said fractional section, without interfering itih any private land claim, leaving a residuum on the
north and the east of said quarter-seetion.
The'defadant gate in evidence to the jury the following claim
tnd--er4'y, made by the said William I. Stone: "To the register
-and-rec'eiver of the Land-office at St..Stephen's, Alabama: You will
Stone, of. Mobile county,
that I,pre-emption,
please t~o take notice,
of William D. under the act of Coiigress,
the riht

abama, claim
of th 29th of M'ay, 1830, -o the fraction situated in the west part
of the south-east quarter of section 22, in townshis 4, range 1 west
of 13." And on the 25th of Mdrch, 1831, he made the necessary
affidavit and proof to show that he had planted and cultivated the
of
of the 29th
tothsaidact
according
land,
described
above
ptente following
i evidence
gave
theyofalso
Andtract
May, 1830.

" The United States of America to all to whom these presents sh-ll
come, greeting: Whereas William D. Stone, of Mobile, has depo
sited in the General -Land-office of the United States, a certificate
of the register of the Land-offce at St..Stephen's, Whereby it appears
that full payment has been made by the said William T..Stone, ace 24th of April, 1820, enttled
cording to the act of Congress,o
'An act making further provision for the sale of the public lands,'
for the south-emt subdivision of fractional section 22, in township
4 South, of range 1 west, in the district of lands subject to sale at
St. Stephen's, Alabama, containing one hundred and ten acres and
the
of the
offcial plat by
to the tand-ofice
of returned
an acre, according
fift-one
to the General
of said land,
surveyor hundredths

surveyor-general; .which said tract has been purchased by the said
tohe United States of Ame
William D. Stone: No.w know ye,
rica in consideration of the premises, and in"confrmity with the
several acts of Congress in such case made and provided, have given
and grantedt and by these presents do give and grant, unto the said
Wlgiam D. Stone, and his heirs, the said tract above described,"
3K-

662

SUPREME COURT.
Brown's Lessee v. Clements et al.

&c. And it was admitted by the plaintiffs, that the defendants had
all the rights of said Stone in the land admifted to have been in their
possession, at the time of the service of the declaration, and the
defendants admitted that the plaintiffs had, at the date of the demise, and time of trial, all the rights of said patentee, Etheridge, in
the land. described in the declaration.
'And the parties ,,no wishing to encumber the record, by copying from the book entitled 'General Acts of Congress respecting the
sale and disposition of the public lands, with instructions issued,
from time to time, by the secretary of the Treasury, and commissioner of the General Land-office, and official opinions of the attorney-general, on questions arising under the land laws;' and which
instructions in the 2d vol., part the 2d, prepared and printed by the
Senate, agree that said book may be used by either party, and any
thing therein contained read as illustration of- the practice of the
Land-office, and construction that the acts of Congress had received
in that branch of the government. 'The same work ean be referred
td, by'either party, in the Supreme Court, for the purpose aforesaid.
The parties further agree that the exhibit; No. 2, being the 'bfficial
plat of the survey of the'township described in the patents of both
plaintiffs and 'defendants, between pages 134 and 135, shall be referred to as if the same was incorporated with, and formed a part
of the record in this cause." This statement furnishes all the evidence deemed necessary and pertinent to the investigation of the
questions involved in the principal instruction of the Circuit Court,
to"The
the jury,
the trial
of the case;
which
is as follows:
courton
further
instructed
the jury,
that,instruction
if said fractional
section, No. 22, was capable of being subdivided into an entire southwest quarter-section, and tWo halfquartei_-sections,
leaving a resievidence of the county surveyor,
shown by saiditap
duum,
was and
not required, under the acts of Constill
theassurveyor-general
gress, providing or thhepublic
lands, and the
instructions .of the secretary of the Treasury,. made under
the act of
the24th
of April,
act, waling
further provisidn
for the sale
of the 1820,
public entitled
lands,' 'An
to make
in his subdivision
of. the
same, either such quarter-section, or half-quarter-sections;
but might
lawfully sibdividfe the same into two lots, A and B, as indioated by
said plat of 1832; and that under said evidence, Etheridge's title
would not hold the whole south-west quarter of, said fractional section, but only lot A; and that Stbnes.title would hold lot B, being.
the balance of said fractional section." To this 'instruction the
plaintiffs excepted.
Upon the construction here given-to the act of Congress,. and to
the instructions of the secretary of the Treasury thereon, referred to
in the above instruction'of the court, depends the whole controversy
between the parties to this suit. The 1st section of the act of Con.
gress, above rcferred to, is in these words: ," Thiat from and after

JANUARY TERM, 1845.
Brown's Lessee v. Clements et al.

663

the first day of July next, all the public lands of the United States,
the sale of which is, or may be, authorized by law, shall, when
offered at public sale to the highest bidder, be offered in half-quarter-sections; and when offered at private sale, may be purchased, at
the option of the purchaser, either in entire sections,*half-sections,
quarter-sections, or half-quarter-sections; and in every case of the
division of a quarter-section, the line for the division thereof shall
run north and south, and ihe comers and contents of half-quarter
sections, which may hereafter be sold, shall be ascertained in the
manner and on the principles directed and prescribed by the second
section of an act, entitled 'An act concerning the mode of surveying the public lands of the UnitedStates,' passed the 11th day of
February, 1805, and fractional sections, containing one hundred
and sixty acres, or upwards shall, in like mainer, as nearly as practicable, be subdivided into half-quarter-sections, under such rules
and regulations as may be prescribed by the secretary of the Treasury." 3 Story's Laws, 1774.
The settled policy of Congress has been to survey the public
lands in square figures, running the lines north and south, and east
and west, and to extend the subdivisiofis authorized by law, as far
as practicable, in square figures, to the lowest denomination.
The second section of the act of the 18th of May, 1796, chap. 29,
directs that the public lands "1shall be divided by north and south
lines, run according to the true meridian, and by others crossing
them at right angles, so as-to form townships six miles square, unless *wherethe line of the late Indian purchase, or of tracts of land
heretofore surveyed or patented, or the course of navigable rivers
may render it impracticable, and then this rule shall'not be departed
from further than such particular circumstances may, require.?' After directing how townships should be divided into sections, it
directs that "fractional townships shall be divided into sections in
manner aforesaid, and the-fractions of sections shall be. annexed to,
and sold with, the adjacent entire sections." 1 Story's Laws, 422.
The lowest denomination authorized by this act, was sections; but
the direction .to the surveyor was to divide the fractional townships
into as many sections as the particular circumstances would permit.
And so by the 1st section'of -the act- of the 24th of April, 1820,
the surveyor is directed to subdivide fractional sections, containing
one hundred -and sixty acres and upwards, into as many half-quartersections as practicable, by running the lines north and south. And
.this statute conferred no power on the secretary of the Treasury to
make any regulation, by which a fractional section might be divided
into any quarter, or other subdivision than half-quarter-sections.
The only authority he acquired b~y the statute, was to make- such
rules and regul.1tions as would enable the surveyor to make the
greatest number of half-quarter-sections out of a-fractional section,
by running ihe lines north- and south, or east and west; and this

664

SUPREME COURT.
Br'own's Lessed v. Giements et al.

power he executed, by his circular letter, to the surveyors-general,
of the 10th of Lune, 1820, 2d part, Public Land Laws, &c., 820.
Had the surveyor-general subdivided the fractional section 22,
now in controversy, according to law, there would have been- two
half-quarter-sections in the south-west quarter, making that quarter
complete, a fractional section in the south-east quarter, and a
fractional section in the north-east and north-west quarters,
making four tracts or subdivisions instead of two, as returned
by him to the Land-office of the district; None of the lines, subdividing sections, are required by ]aw to be made by actual survey',
and marked on the land; but they are to be delineated on the township plats, according to the 2d section of the act of the 11th of
May, 1805, chap. 74, referred to in the art of the 24th of April,
1820, (2 Story's Laws, 961.) When the township and section lines.
are run, and the corners marked according to law, the quarter- ection lines are ascertained on the plat by protracting lines across the
section north and south, and east and west, equi-distant from the
section lines; and so of other subdivisions. And a surveyor going
on the land to ascertain, the boundary .of a quarter, or half-quartersection, would do it-with as much ease and certainty as -if it had
been delineaied on the Ilat by the surveyor-general. Extending
the subdividing'lines on the township plats, is not, therefore, essentially necessary to enable the register to sell the land, or to give title
to the urchaser. The register is as much bound to know what is
a legal subdivision of a section, or fractional section, as is the sur--.
veyor-general.
Because he is directed by law to offer the lands, when sold' at
public sale, in half-quarter-sections. To -enable him to perform this
duty; he must know what a half-quarter-section is And before he
can offer a fractional section for sale, he must see that it has been.
subdi*ided, so as to enable him to. offer.a much of it in half-quarter-sections as practicable. When Etheridge applied to purchase
the soth-west quarter of this fractional section at private sale, as he
had a right to do, under the act granting ppe.emption rights, the
register was bound to know whether such a subdivision could be
obtained according to law. A bare inspection of the township plat
must have satisfied-him, in this case, that it wag pricticable to obtain an 'entire quarter-section in the south-west corner of theTractional section 22 The 1st section of the act of the 24th of April,
182a, directed that this fractional section should be divided into as
many half-quarter-sections as practicable, by lines north and south;
and the instructions .iven by the secretary of the Treasury under
this act, directed that it should be divided into half-quarter-sections,
mostnorth
compact
south,
or east and west lines, so as to preserve the
and and
by
convenient
forms.
T e is nothing in any of the acts of Congess, nor. in theinstruc-tions of the secretary of the Treasury, to authorize the division of

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

665

Brown's Lessee v. Clements et aL

this fractional section made by the surveyor-general, andit being a
violation of the law, and contrary to the duties of his office, it must
be regarded as a void act. ' Miller~and others v. Kerr and others,
7 Wheat. 1. So far as Stone's claim was concerned, this division
of the fractional section has been treated' by the register and the
commissioner of the General Land-office as a legal subdivision, and
the register seems fo have-disregarded entirely the act granting preemption rights and Stone's claim and proofs' under it, and to have
transferred his claim to the western lot of the fractional section as
divided by the surveyor-general. The certificate. of the register,
recited in the patent of Etheridge, takes no notice of this subdivision
of the fractional section, but states that Etheridge had "purchased
of the register the lot or south-west quarter of section, number 22,"1
&c. The patent is for the whole of the south-westquarter of section 22, by its pioper designation, and if no quantity of land had
been expressed in it, all the land contained in the 'quarter-section
would have passed, by the patent, to Etheridge; because, by-the
2d section of-the act of the 11th of February, 1805, before referred to, it-is provided that)" half-sections and quartir-sections, the
contents of which have not been returned, shall be held and considered ad containing the one-half, or the one-fourth respectively, of
the contents of the section of which they make part." The surveyor failed to return the contents of the quarter-section in this case;
it was liable, therefore, to be soli' b the above-rule. -But it has
been insisted that Etheridge, and those claiming under him, were
bound, and concluded by the number of acres expressed in the patent. It is -evident the quarter-section was nof referred to for the
number of acres contained in it; but by express words reference
was made to the plat returned by the surveyor-general, shobwing the
division of the fractional section into*two parts, one of which contains the number of acres expressed .inEtheridge's patent; and the
other the number of acres expressed in Stone's patent. It has been
already shown that this plat was illegal, and the subdivision 'of the
fractional section void; and any reference, therefore, to this plat, to
show the number of acres granted to Etheridge, is illegal and inconsistentwith every previous step taken towards perfecting his title, and
utterly repugnant to the previous words of grarit used in the patent.
Thus it appears, that neither the claim of Etheridge, filed with
the register, the certificate of purchase issued by him, nor the patent
issued to Etheridge by the commissioner of the General Land-office,
is founded on the division of the fractional section made by thi surveybr-general; but the whole appears to be founded on the subdi*vision of the fractional section into one quarter-section, and two'
fractional sections, made by actual survey on the land. It is true
thif, in undertaking to-state the quantity of land contained in the
quarter-section, reference is made to what is there called the official plat of the lands returned to the General Land-office by the surVoL. II.-84
3x 2

666

SUPREME COURT.
Brown's Lessee v. Clements et al.

veyor-general; which is nothing more than a reference to this same
subdivision of the fractional section so often mentioned. But this
question necessarily arises: How can the contents of either division of the fractional section, thus divided into two lots or subdivisions, show the contents or number of acres in the south-west
quarter of the same section? The ninety-two acres and sixty-seven
hundredths of an acre mentioned in the patent9 is the number of
acres contained in the western subdivision of said fractional section,
and consists of part of the south-west, aid part of the north-west
quarters of the fractional section, as appears by the plat used on the
trial. No part of the north-west quarter of this -fractional section
can by any reasonable construction be considered as being within
and part of the land included in:.a patent for the south-west quarter
of the section. This proves that the reference to this plat, in Etheridge's patent, is both delusive and illegal, and must, therefore, be
rejected as void and inoperative.
The act of the 29th of May, 1830, to grant pre-emption rights to
settlers on the public lands, chap. 209, appropriated this quartersection of land, on which E theridge.was then seiled, to his claim,
under the act, for one year, subject, however,-to be defeated by his
failure to comply with its provisions. During that time, this quarter-section was not liable to any other claim, or to be sold to any
other person, except at public sale, under the proclamation of the
President of the United States; and that Etheridge had a right to
prevent, by paying for it as directed by the act. And as he has
complied with all the requisitions of the act, as far as the mistakes
and illegal acts'of the miisterial officers of the governmeht would
permit, he has acquired a good title by his patent, against the United
States, for the whole of said south-west quarter-section. The remaining question is, whether Etheridge's title is good against Stone's
patent? Stone claimed "the right of pre-emption, under the act of
Congress of the 29th of May, 1830, to the fiaction situated in the
west part of the south-east quarter of section. 22, in township 4,
range 1 west." This claim confined his pre-emption right to that
specific fraction. And although the act gaye to every settler on the
public lands the right of pre-emption of one hundred and ,sixty
acres, yet if a settler. happened to be seated on a fractional section,
containing less than that- quantity, there is no provision in the act
by which -he could make up the deficiency, out of the adjacent
lands, or any other lands. The only case provided for in the act,
by which the pre-emptioner" had the right to enter land outside of
the quarter, or fractional section, on which he was settled at the passage of the act, is the case provided for in the 2d section. When
two or more persons were settled on the. same quarter-section, itm jht be divided between the two first settlers, and-each be entitled
to apre-emption of eighty acres of land elsewhere, in the same landdistrict. But; in this case, Stone was not only permitted to take

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

667

Brown's L-essee v. Clements et al.

land, outside of the fractional section, on which he was settled, but he
was permitted to take land on which Etheridge was settled, and to
which he had previously proved his right under the same act of
Congress.
In the case of Lindsay and others v. Miller and others, 6 Peters,
674, the plaintiffs in ejectment claimed title under a patent, dated
the 1st of December, 1824, founded on an entry and survey made
in the1 same 'year. The defendants claimed title under an entry,,
made in January, 1783, upon a military warrant, for services rendered in the Virginia gtate-line, and a survey made thereon, in the
same month, and recorded on the 7th of April, of the same year, and
a patent, issued by the state of Virginia, in March, 1789. Thisjand
lay in what is called the military district, between the rivers Scioto
and Little Miama, in the state of Ohio. This district had been reserved, in the deed of cession, dated the 1st of March, 1784, made
by Virginia to the United States, to satisfy the claims of the Virginia
troops on continental establishment, in the event of there not beingsufficient good land for that purpose, in a reservation previously
made by Virginia, on the south-east side of the, Ohio river. Although the defenddnts proved possession, underthis title, for upwards
of thirty years, the entry, survey, and patent, were adjudged by the
court to be void, on the ground that the land had been reserved for,
the satisfhacion of military warrants, granted for services of the Virginia troops on continental establishment, and was not, therefore,
subject to entry upon warrants for services rendered in the Virginia
state-line.
In the case b~fore the court, all th land in the south-west quartet
of the fractional sectibn had been appropriated, by law, to satisfy
Etheridge's claim, and no other land could be substituted in lieu of
that quarter-section, for any part of it. Stone's 'claim arose -under
the same law, and by the same provisions was confined to the fraction in the west part of the south-east quarter of the same sectfon,
and gave no right to land elsewhere'.: So much of the patent to
Stone as purports to grant land within the south-west quarter of the
section, is, therefore, not only an appropriation of land to his claim,
not subject to it-abcording to the act, butwhich,bythe same act, had
been appropriated to anotherclaim, arising under the same act, concurrent with and equal in all respects to Stone's claim. How, then,
could his patent give him title to land that was not subject to his
claim; land that he never had legally claimed; and to land that, by
law, had been appropriated to and claimed-by another? It seems to
us, this case is clearly within the principles settled in the case above
referred to, and that the patent granted to Stone is yoid, for so much
of the land included in it as lies.-within the said south-west -quarter
of the fractional section, and for which Etheridge holds a patent..
It has been insisted, however, that as Etheridge only paid for the
quantity of land mentioned in his patent, that he can have no right

668

SUPREME CO-URT.
Brown's -Lessee v. Clements et aL

to land paid for by Stone, and included in his patent. This is one
Df the results of the mistaken and illegal actsof the ministerial officers
of the government, which, as already shown, can neither-benefit one
party, nor prejudice the rights of the other. The United States have
received full payment for all the land contained in both patents.
And if-Stone has paid for land which belonged to Etheridge,-that is
a matter to be adjusted between themselves, amicably j -or by law, a]s
they may choose.
Upon a full view of the whole case, it is the opinion of the court,
thatthe judgment of the Supreme Court of Alabama be reversed.
Mr. Justice CATRON.
I feel myself bound to dissent, from the foregoing opinion-for the
following reasons:
1. By the act of 29th May, 1830,4,pre-emption right settler then
in possession was entitled to enter,'with, tire register of the Landoffice in the district where the land Ily; by legal subdivisions, not
more tan one hundred and sixty acres.
* The controversy before us turns, partly, on what was the true Illegal
subdivision" of fractic nal section 22, containing two hundred and
three acres: This must be ascertained from the laws on the subject
existin in 1830. The lines of public surveys actually run and
markedin the field, are township extensions, and section boundaries; the lines dividing sections finto quarters, half-quarte'rs, (and
quarter-quarters since 1832,) being only indicated, or'depicted upon
the township plats returned and recorded in the office of the register.
The act of 26th March, 1804, provides for the first time for the
sale of the public lands in qdaiter-sections; and also directs (sect. 9)
that fractional sections shall be sold entire; or by uniting two or
more together. The act of February 11th, 1805, directs with absolute precision, leavina no discretion on the subject, the manper'in
which full sections shall. be divided into quarters: but makes no
provision for the subdivision of fractional sections. It was-not until
the passing of the act of April 24, 1820, ihat these were authorized
to he'subdivided; and then only when they contained more than
one hundred and sixty acres. The aef of 1820, in directing the
.manner in whi6h full sections shall be subdivided info half-quarters,
or eighty acre- lots, is as absolutely-precise in iti prqvjsions as that.
of 1805; and, as in the former case, gives no discietionary power so
far as these subdivisions are concerned-but in authorizing ihe subdivision of fractional -sections.containing one hundred ahd sixty acres
and upwards, it directs that they shall in like manner, "as nearly
as practicable," be subdivided into half-quarter-sections, or eighty
acre lots-"under such rules and regulations, as may be prescribed
by the secretary of the Treasury." Under the discretionary power
here given, - rules =rand regulations were prescribed by Secretary
Crawford, on the 10th ofJune,. 1820, (2 Land Laws and Opinions,

JANUARY TjRM, 1845.
Brown's Lessee v. Clements et al.

669

p. 820, No. 796.). A circular was addressed to the surveyors-general
of that date, for their government in this respect, byfhe commissioner
of the General Land-offce: It orders that fractional sections, containingnmore than one hundred and sixty acres, shall be divided into
halfquarter-sections, by north and south, or east ahd west lines, so
as to preserve the most iompact and convenient forms. C"You will,
therefore," says the 'commissioner, "be pleased to divide the fractional sections in your district, (which remaih unsold,) in themanner
above directed, and riport to this office, and to the registers of the
land-district in which those fractions respectively are situate, the
subdivisions, together with the quantity in each. It is not intended
to run the sdbdivisionat -lines, and mark them, but merely to make
them upon your survey4, and calculate the quantity of land in each
subdivision."
In January, 1826, (2 Land Laws, p. 583, No. 841,) further instructions were given on this subject, to the surveyo--general at Washington, Mississippi. The .tommissionersays, among other things"A fractional section is a tract of land not bounded by sectional
lines on all sides, in consequence of the- idntevem6tion of rivers, &c.,
and containing a less quantity than six hundred and forty acres."
Speaking of'the regulations, and the circular letter founded on
them, the commissioner continues: "The substance of the nile is,
that fractional sections of one hundred and sixty acres and upvards
are to be subdivided by east and.west, or north and south lines,-at
the discretion of the surveyor, so as to preserve the most compact
and convenient forms. Each lot to be, as nearly as practicable, a
half-quarter-section, containing a quantity of eighty acres; sometimes
rather more, sometimes less, as the locality demands."
According to these instructions, fraction No. 22 was divided: two
precise eighty-acre tracts oould not be made out of it; half-quarters,
or eighty acres, was the least qiantity that could be sold by the act
of 1820, if in regular form and part of a full section; but if in irregular form; and the fraction of a section, containing upwards of one
hundred and sixty acres, then it was left to the secretary to cause it
to be subdivided accordng to his own regulations, into two or more
tracts,, approaching, "as nearly as practicable," -to eighty acres
each. He directed the subdivisions to be made in all cases so as to
preserve the most compact and saleable forms, accommodating thetracts to the sides of rivers, or other legal intervening boundaries to
subserve the best interests' of the government. This practice has
prevailed as the governing rule for nearly a quarter of a century, and
is now in full operation-large quantities of land have been sold
thus subdivided; and great. qu.mtities yet remain to be sold. I
speak on information derived from the commissioner of the General
Land-office. The idea of taking out of a fraction a quarter-section
of one hundred and sixty acres, if found there; as if the section was
entire, and leaving surrounding strips of a few acres each, unsaleable

670

SUPREME COURT.
Brown's Lessee v. Clements et a].

and of little or no value, as will be the case here, never has been
entertained at that office, as the true construction of the,act of 1820,
from the date of Mr. Crawford's instruclions, (June 10th, 1820,) up
to this time. On mature consideration, I think the instructions given
legitimately within the authority conferred on the secretary. In this
view of the law, as applicable to the present case, I am supported
by the opinion of the attorney-general, given on Etheridge's claim
in 1837, (2 Land Lws and Opinions, p. 136, No. 85.)
2. Suppose, however, it was doubtful whether they were or not
authorized, is it admissible for the courts of justice, after such a
lapse of time, to call in question the construction given to the act;
to disturb so many titles taken under it-and to break up existing
suldivisions? The sole authority to which the act referred for its
exposition, and the prescribing of rules- and regulations to carry it
into execution, was the secretary of the Treasury. His jurisdiction
was subject to no supervision; he was constituted the only judge,
from whose decision there was no appeal on part of purchasers; they
were compelled to buy -in the form5 and quantity, the lands were
offered for sale, or not be permitted to purchase at all. The secretary having adjudged and settled the construction of the act according to his views of its true meaning,.and this coeval with its passage -a strong cirtumstance: the government in its executive and
political departments, and the community at large concerned in purchasing from the government, having acquiesced.without complaint,
recogmsing the construction as the true one, through so great a lapse
of years, it is'now supposed by me,'the duty of this court, on the
question being presented here, and that for the first time, to acquiesce
also. That these subdivisions are for the best interests of the United
Stats is manifest; all others have abided by them, and so should
the plaintiff.
If one of our own judgments made in 1820, coeval with the statute, had produced similar consequences; if many thousands of titles
rested on it, (as there surely do on Mr. Crawford's instructions,) I
should feel myself wholly unauthorized, at this day, to overthrow
the decision, however doubtful I might think it to be. The conservative rule of communis error facit jus, is universal in courts of
justice, in regard to their own judgmefits, under such circumstances;
and' und.oubted judicial propriety requires its adoption, as it seems
to me, when dealing with the decision of the secretary in the present
instance. This course is peculiarly due to the repose of titles, and
the stable maintenance of an established system'in a great department; a system'that cannot be changed in this respect without much
expense,. confusion, and delay, in the administration of that de-'
partment.
3. But suppose the secretary was mistaken, and the subdivision.
of fractional section 22 is illegal; what then is the plaintiff's - ease?
His title is a patent; on his legal title he must recover, therefore he

JANUARY TERM, 184;

671

Browni's Lessee v. Clements et a].

cannot be heard to say his patent is void because founded on an
illegal subdivision: the question then is reduced to this; what does
the patent cover? Etheridge had no peculiar rights by the act of
1830, save that he had a preference of entry; like others purchasing
of the United States he was compelled to buy in legal subdivisions;
before 1820 not less than an.entire fractional section could be sold ;
nor after the at of that year, could one be sold in subdivisions until
divided, under regulations by the secretary of the Treasury. Further than this, the act of 1805 remained unchanged, as to fractions.
Etheridge could not be permitted to treat a quarter-section in a fraction, although found there,, as if it was found in an entire section.
He did attempt it, in proving up his preference right, but when he
applied to enter at the Land-office the register rejected his claim, and
compelled him to take the land on which he resided in the form and
quantity it had been laid off according to the instructions; and this
he did take. The government is bound by its patent; is estopped
to disavow the subdivision granted; and as estoppels are mutual,
Etheridge is qually bound, by the grant. It recites the patent certificate ;-this says it is for ninety-two acres and sixty-seven hundredths,
bounded "according to the official plat of the survey of the said
lands, returned to the General Land-office by the surveyor-generalwhich said tract, described in the plat returned, has been purchased
by the said James Etheridge.", The plat is part of the patent certificate; is referred to in the pdtent, and is part of that also, just as
much as if it was attached -to the sami6 paper. , By the plats of public surveys, lands must be identified, alid tHe boundaries ascertained,
in all cases of the-kind. *-The parties agree of record that exhibit
No. 2 is the official map described in the patent of Ehedidge;
acqording to this, he purchased lot A for ninel-two acres and sixtyseven hundredths; his eastern boundary being the red line made by
the surveyor-general, pursuant to 1he instructions. This was undoubtedly the, land the government intended to sell, and, as I think,
as certainly "he same Etheridge intendechto buy, and did buy; of
course-jhe can recover no land east of that line, and therefore the
judgment ought to be affirmed, even if the instructions were illegal
and void.
4. The case does not stop here: Stone's patent is elder than
Etheridge's; the same plat is referred to. in each; Stone's is for the
one hundred and ten acres and fifty hundredths east of the red line.
This is not disputed. To overcome it, Etheridge's yatent must be
supported by a legal entry for the safine land, elder than Stone's
pEtent. As already stated, until Etheridge paid his money, he could
bave no legal entry from which to date his title. There being no
soch subdivision existing in law -as the south-west quarter of fractional section 22, when Etheridge'presented his occupant claim, he
could not be permitted to enter in that form, or for that quantity.
Such was the express instruction of May 31, 1831, (2 Land Laws

672

BUPREME COURT.
Brown's Lessee.,t. Clements et aL

and Instretions, No. 497, and again.in No.521.) The first subdivision was created afterwards by the act of the surveyor-general,
and is indicated by the red line. That it is denominated the. south-,
west quarter in the patent, amount5, * my judgment, to very little;
thus the department saw proper tocall,.such subdivisions; the deno-.
mination -was arbitrary and not precise,'but we cannot- discard the
substance for the sake of correcting-terms of description open to
verbal criticism. The land contained in plat'referred to in Ethe-'
ridge's patent, is a technical qdarter-section in the -language -of the
General Land-office; and such subdivisions are known by no other
name there, as will. be-seen by No. 483 -and No. 486 iii the volume
of. Instructions above referred to. "Thus.in No. 483, dated July 28,
1830, the commissioner instructs the register at Mount Salus, that.
the pre-emptioli law of that year iestricted the quantity to be located
to one hundred and sixty acres, or a quarter-section; but that it did
not intend that an excess over one hundred 'and sixty acres, "in a
tract
technically known as a quarter-so'orion,"- should be cut
,off soofasland
to restrict
the quantity literally. to one hundred and sixty
acres. "The law, (says he,) having, taken it for granted that every
quarter-section contains one hundred and sixty acresi which not
being the fact, we must be guided by what we know to be the spirit
and tntention, of the law."' He then instructs the register, in cases
of fractional sections, to conform to the subdivisions as made by the
surveyor-general, and to give the quantity-'as near as practicable
No. 486 is a-general circular, dated September 14; 1830, on he
same .subject in part. - In'struction 8 directs :""Although a quartersection may be found to contain rgther more than the ordinary quantity of one 'hundred and sixty acres, the right of pre-emption is'
6xtended to the full quantity of such quarter'section." In the language, therefore, of -the General Land-office, the south-west-. quarter
of fractional section 22, called for in Etheridge's patent, is as well
known by its designation, as if the section was entire. This the
Instruction No. 497 above, explains, where the subdivided quantity
is less, to be a "'technical" quarter also, as well as if the quantity
had been more. But if there be uncertainty, here; as in former
cases, We must refer to the plat and quantity to explain the uncertainty. This course was pursued in the case of McIver v. Walker,
9 Cranch, 173, and again in-4 Wheaton, 444. There the plat was
held to control the face of the patent, and-fled a different locality,
because Crow creek was laid down on the plat, nearly through its
*centre; the location certificate copied in the patent, as in this case,
called for-a beginning, and for courses from that point, runnin off
.from the creek, which was not naied as being crossed by the lines;
yet this court disregarded the calls, and held the land lay on both
sides of the creek, as indicated in the naked flat. It was a much
weaker case than the' present. In patents of the United States, from
their-earliest -date down to this day, nothing is referred to but min-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

673

-Brown's Lessee v. C'ements et al.

bers or'the public surveys. To-hold that thesurveys'did not explin
and control. the patent as-to identity, and. sid6 lines,'would be anaband6nmerit of both; &snothing else- can establish either.
Much stress is laid .on the fact that the half-mile post ig found on
the south bounda of.ection; 22. The- same line-marks are uniformly made. on all sectional lines, regardless- of fractions: so it
'would have been.done had the fraction 22 been for less than onie
hundred.,and sixty.acres, and not subjected to subdivision. The
section south may have been. entire; and the comer post necessary
i'or the purposes 9 f that section.
Another difficulty stands in the way of the 1plaintiff's recovery.
Stone's.patent is the elder; it is admitted it covers the land in' dispute--the patent pissed the. perfect and consummate title; in an
action ,of ejectment the patent is-conclusive, as-was held by this court
in Wilcox v.Jackson, and Bagnell v. Broderick, 13 Peters; 516, 450.
You can only go behind it,. and give it earlier date, fiom a: precise
legal entry for the same land made by the grattee, to overreah an
elder.patent; ds this court held in Ross v. Barland,. 1 Peters, 655.
We have seen _Etheridge did .not enter the land in-dispute when he
paid his money, and took -his -patent certificate. To overthrow
Stone's patent, We must rely on *the preference right to enter. At
best,-it is.h remote and doubtful equity; Stone paid for the land,
to it forwth
his
'attached
has anof eqity
be true,)
(and
ifthemoney;
assumption
purchase
presenting
a,case
.conflicting
equities,
wvhich a court of law cannot deal. In t elanguaage of'this court in
Bagnell v. Brodefick, "€we are bound to p)resumne for the purposes
of this action, that all previoufs'legal steps had been taken byStone
obtain
it, himself
notwithst~di
the claim
set up had
by Ethendge;
to
ight
te.superiorand
havandthat-he
to the patent,
to
entitle
oItairied
hn thepatent, Stone ha the best title known to a court
of law, tb wit, th-e
fee." There a much moretmposing equity thn
Etheridge
can"pretend
totwas set up. In norespect, therefore, is
thee any ground
for reversing
the 'decision of the Supreme Court
of Alabama, at is supposed by me.
h
In.the case of Brown et ux. v. Huntp Mr. Justice D6ru dis-'sents from the opinion rof the court,and concurs
opinion with
Mr. Chief Justicon an .e
Justic
t
Ce
haor.

VOL.

Im.-85

