JANUARY TERM, 1845.

717

McFarland v. Gwin.

and its main incident a right to have the land applied in discharge
of the debt, either by an execution executed, as on a judgment at
law, or in some form of remedy substantially equal. The new
remedy, prescribed by the act of 1841, changed the contract, and
required among other things that the mortgaged premises should
not be sold to satisfy the debt unless they were first valued, and
one-half of that value was bid for them. If the legislature could
make this alteration in the contract, and in the decree enforcing it,
so it could declare the property should bring its entire value, or that
it should not be sold at all; thereby.impairing, or defeating the obligation under the disguise of regulating the remedy. This court
held in Brobson v. Kinzie, 1 How. 319, that the right, and a remedy substantially in accordance wvith the right, were equally parts
of the contract, secured by the laws of the state where it was made;
and that a change of these laws, imposing conditions and restrictions
on the mortgagee, in the enforcement of his contract, and which
affected its substance, impaired the obligation, and could not prevail ; as an act directly p'rohibited, could not be done indirectly.
This being the settled doctrine of the court, and applying as forcibly to the case before us, as*it did to the one cited,.we answer to
the second ground of objection, that the sheriff's deed is not void
on this ground, although no valuation of the property was made
before the sale.

Wm.-LAx

H.

McFARLAND

V.

WILLUA

M.

GwiN,

(LATE MAISHAL.)

A marshal is not authorized by law to receive any thing, in discharge of an
execution, but gold'and silver, unless the plaintiff authorizes him to receive
something else.
The case of Griffin et aL v. Thompson, 2 Howard, 244, reviewed and confirmed.
A marshal, like a sheriff, is bound, after the expiration of his term of 'office, to
complete an execution.which has come to his hands during his term; and
an execution is never completed until the 'money is made and paid over to
the plaintiff, if it is practicable to make it.

Tins case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the southern district of Mississippi.
McFarland had recovered a judgment against one Passmore for
the sum of $9763 10, and on the 6th of July, 1839, issued a fieri
facias.
On the 1st of November, 1839, the execution was levied upon
sundry pieces of property by the marshal.
On the 20th of December, 1839, a venditioniexponas was issued,
to which the marshal made the following return:
4CThe within named property was sold on the 27th.day of Janu-

718

SUPREMEGOURT.
McEarland v. Gwim

ary, 1840, andI received in payment therefor, on that day, the sum
of nine thbusand -dollasin the post notes of the Mississippi Union
Bank, which are herewith returned. -Received) also, on the same
day, the balance of the execution from the defendahts, in the same
kind of money, which is likewise herewith returned.
"Wm. M. Gwnr, Marshal,
Per J. F. Coox, deputy."
.Attorney's Receipt.
"May 22d, 1840, Rceived of Win. M. Gwin, marshal, the sum
of five hundred and fourteen - dollars, being the amount of my
commissions, I having refused to receive the balance belonging to
the plaintiff, as the same was tendered me by Mr. Gwin in Union
Bink of Mississippi post notes, in which kind of money he says and
returns that it wis colldeted.
C!Wk. R. T. CHAxPrm, Pl'tff Is-attly.")
At November term,-1841, MpFarland, by. his counsel, moved the
-court for a jtudgment'against Gwin for the amount due on the 6riginal, judgment, wih i'nterest at the rate of eight per cent. from the
14th of Mdy,. 1839, to the 27th of January, 1840, and for interest
upon the aggregate um,-at the-rate of thirty per cent. per annum,
from, the 22d of May, 1840, until paid.
The-motion was submitted To the court upon the following agreed
-case, viz-

-

(The writs and returns were stated, and then the agreement continued thus,).
"And it was proved that the money was de*manded on the 22d
day of May, 1840; also,, that at that date the Union post notes
were at forty per.cent. discount.
"The defendant proved, that on the demand he tendered the pos
notes of the Mississippi Union Bank, which were refused by the
attorney of the plaintiff. He also proved, that from August, 1838,
when the Mississippi Union Bank went into operation, until about
the middle of February, 1840, the post notes of that bank.consti:tuted nearly the-entire circufating medium of the.state. That they
had been- treated as cash in. all- business-transactions during that
time. That they were habitually and ordinarily received by the
sheriffs throughout the state in 'satisfaction of executions,, and in
payment of property sold under them. That the nirshal bad been
accustomed, during all that time, to collect the post notes- of said
bank upon executions; and. that the attorneys of the court; and
plaintiffs in executions, had alw"ays, without 6bjection, received
such notes from the- marshal as-money. That on the.27th day of
January, 1840, the day of -sale, the post notes of' said bank were
worth five or sixper cent. less than specie, and were worth more
than they-had previously been. - That about thd middle of Febr4-

JANUAgiY TERM, 1845.

719

McFarland v. Gwin.

ary, 1840,- they suddenly depreciated in value, and continued to
decline until the 22d May, 1840.
"The above was all the evidence in the case.
H. S. EusTTi,
W. YERGEI."

Upon this statement of facts, the court were of opinion that judg- "
ment should be entered for. the defendant. To which- opinion of
the court, the plaintiff, by his counsel, excepted, and upon this exception th case came up.
Coxe, for the plaintiffin error.
Walker, for the defendant in error.Mr. Justice McICNLEY delivered the opinion of the court:
McFarland-recovered jtidgmeht against Ellis P. Passmore, for the
sum of $9,763 10 cents, in the Cifcuit Court of the United States,
for the southern district of Mississippi.; ahd on the 6th day of July;
'1839, a fieri-facias issued thereon, directed to the marshal of the
southern district of Mississippi, commandin-him, that of the goods
and chattels, lands and tenements of the said Ellis.P. Passmore, he
should cause -to be made the said sum of $9,763 10 cents, upon
which fieri facias the marshal returned, that he had levied of the
goods and cliattdls, lands and thnements of the defendant sufficient
to satisfy the fieri facias; but which prbperty had fiot been sold for
want of tiine.
And thereupon a venditioni exponas issued to the marshal, commanding him-to expose to sale the goods and chattels, lands and:
tenements levied on, upon which he returned, that he had sold the
property levied on, and received the f6ll amount 6f the fie-i facias,
in the post notes of the Mississippi -Union Bank. The attorney forthe plaintiff received of, the- marshal $514 15 cents, being theamount of the attorney's fees; for which he gave a receipt, but. refused to receive any part of the note. for the plaintiff. At the November term 1841, of -the Circuit Court, the plaintiff moved the '
court for judgment against the marshal for the amount of the'fi
facias and interest thereon. On the- trial of the motion, it was.
proved by the plaintiff, that the money was demandea on the 22d
'day of May, 1840; and at that date the post notes of 'the Union
Baik were selling ata- discouitt of 40 per cent. Gwin, the defendant,
proved that on the demand. made,: he had tendered he post notes:
of-the Union Bank, which were refused by the - attorney of the plaintiff; and that from-August, 1838, when the Mississippi Union Bank
-went into operation, until- about the-middle of February, 1840, the
post notes of that bank constituted nearly-the entire circulating medium of the state:; that they had been treated as cash in all business transactions during that time, and had been received by the
iarshal an& the sherifl-of the state in payment of xecutions. And

720

SUPREM;E COURT,
Neil, Moore,& Co. v. Thie State of Ohio.

thereupon the court rendered judgment against the plaintiff, and for
the defendant.
To ieverse this judgment the plaintiff has prosecuted this writ of
error.
This
.
question. is fully settled in the case of. Griffin & Ervin- v.
Thompson,. 2 How. Rep. 244. In that case this court heldhat the
marshal was not authorized by law to receive, any thing in discharge
of the execution, but the gold or silvei coin of the United States. To
this general proposition -we,give our full aisent; but we do not mean
to say there is no exception to this general rule.- If the plaintiff
were te authorize the marshal to take bank notes,, of any description, in payment of the exenution, we have no hesitation in saying,
a payment by ttie defendant to the marshal in such bank notes
would be a satisfaction of the judgment.
But as Gwin failed to prove any such authority from the plaintfif
he was, clearlydliable for , the whble amount of the execution with
legal interest thereon, -except the amount paid to the plaintiff's
attorney. It has been contended, however, in this case, that, at the
.time this motion was made, Gwin was not marshal, his time having
expired, and another having been appointed in his stead. It is a'
wel settled principle of law, that if an executioii come to the hands
Sbf a sheriff to be executed, and his term of-bffice expire before he
executes iti he is bound nevertheless to complete the execution;
and the same rule applies to a marshal. An execution, is never completed until the money is made and paid over to'the plaintiff, if it
be practicable to make it.
All the remedies against the marshal, necessary to compel him to
-pay o'ver the money he has made, suirvi'ie'his term of service, and
remain-in full force against him until the execution shall be completed,
The judgment pf-the Circuit Court must, therefore, be reversed.

& COMeAN,I?
NZIL, MooRE4
-

ANTIrFFS .n" ERROR, v. THE STAT E oFOoDgEwDAiNT.

Uade the acts of Congreand of the State of Ohio, relating to the surrender and
of the 4juinbetland oad, a toll charged upon passengers travel'cceptanc
also Upon passengers travelling
being chargedvoid.
without
themaistages,
-.lingiu
in otherstages,
is against
the contract,-andl
It. _sts altogether in the discretion of the postmastergeneral, to determine at
or more
once aatday
onlyarrive
place aid
others,
and
the sameplaces
-leaveparticular
mail shaIl
leave
what
hours -the
it shall
whether
detnrmiie
* to
frequently.
a e
It'is not, herefore, the mere frequency of the departure of carriages, carrying
:the mail', that constitutes an abus of teprivilee of the United States, but
th.e
hunec'ssary~division
thetolls.
mnail bags amongst a-nnmber of carriages in
order
to evade the paymenof of
Tis
nas case
brought up under the 25th section of the Judicarry

Act, bywrit. of-error, from the Supreme Court of Ohio.

