State of Maryland tf. Raltimo-e & Ohio Ra-ilroad Co.

in the pursuit of his claim-; and least-of all-should he be prejudiced
thereby, when the rrorinsisted on.has been induced by the'person"
Who seekgto avail himself of its existence.
Upon'the -hole, we consider the rulings of th Circuit Cour upon
the several 'points before it, to be cdrrect;. its judgment is: therefore,
affirmed.

UNITED STATES V.

-A.bnzw

HODGEi.

If the citation be signed by the clerk, and not by a judge of the Circuit
.Court, or a justice of the SuprtmeCourt, the case will, on motion, be dismissed.

M. Chief'Justice TANEY delivered the.opinion of-the court on.
a motion to dismiss this case.."
This case is brought here by a writ of 'error to the Circuit Court
for the eastern district of Louisiana; and a motion has been made to
dismiss it, because the citation was signed by the clerk, and not by
a judge of the Circuit Court, or a justice of the. Supreme Court, as
directed by the act bf Congress of-1789, ch. 20, sect. 22.
* The defendant is not bound. to appear here, unless the citation is
signed in the manner prescribed.bylaw; and as that has not been
done in this case, the writ must be dismissed.

TiM STATE OF MARYiAND, FOR THE USE OF WASHINGTON COUNTY,
PLAINrIFF IN 'ERROR, v. THE BALjnsoRE AND OHI RaLOAD CoXpAre, DEFEND-A'TS.
The state of Maryland, in 1836, passed a law ilirecting a subscription of
$3,000,000 to be made to the capital stdck of the Baltimore and Ohio Rail.
road Company' with the following proviso, "That if the said company shall
not locate the said road in the manner provided for in this act, then, and in
that case, they shall forfeit $1.000,000 to the state of Marylav4 for the use
of Washington county.
In March, 1841, the state passed another act repealing so much of the prior
act as made it the duty of the company to construct the road by the route
therein-prescribed; remitting and releasing the penalty, and directing the discpntinuaxice of any suit brought to recover the same.
The proviso was a measure of state policy, which it had a right to change, if
the policy was afterwards discovered to be erroneous, and neither the commissioners, nor the county, nor any one of its citizens acquired any separate
or private mterest under it, which could be maintained in a court of'
justice.

