JANUARY TERM, 145.

W

83

LIAM'OLIVER AND MICAJAH T'. WILLAXS AND OTHERS, APELLANTS,

V. RORB

T PUw.,

In cases of trust, where the trustee has violated his trust by an illegal conver:
sion of the trust property, the cestui gu& trust has a right to folloW the property
into whosesoever 4ands he may find it, not heing a bona fide purchaser -fora
valuable consideration, without notice.
Where a trustee has, in violation of his trust, invested the truit property or its proceeds in any. other property, the cestui que trust has his option, either to
old the substituted property liable to the original trust, or. to hold the trustee
himself personally liable for the breach of the trust.
The option, however, belongs to the cestui qgu trust alone and is for his benefit,
and not for the benefit of the trustee.
If the trustee, after such an unlawful conversion of the trust property, should
re-purchase it, thei cstui que trust may, at his option, either hold the original
property-subject to the trust, or take the substituted property in which it.has
been invested, in lieu thereof. And the trustee, in such a case, has no -ight
to insist that the trust shall, upon the re-purchase, attach exclusively to the
original trus property..
Where the trust property has been unlawfully invested, with other funds of the
trustee, it other property, the latter, in the hands of the trustee, is chargeable
pro taito tQ the amount or value of the original trust property.
What constitutes notice of a trust !
An agent, employed by a trustee in the management of the trust property, and
who thereby acquires a knowledg of the trust, is, if -he afterwards becomes
possessed of the trust property, boujid by the trust, in the same manner as the
trustee.
Where, upon thi face of the title-papers, the purchaser has fall means of. acquiring complete knowledge of the title from the references'therein made to
the origin and cohsideration thereof, he will be deemed to have'constructive
notice thereof.
A co-proprietor of real property, derived under the same title as the other proprietors, is presumed to have full knowledge of the objects and purposes and
trusts attached to the original purchase, and for which it is then held for their
common .benefit.
A purchaser by a deed of quit claim without any covenant of warranty, is not
entitled to protection in a cpurt of equity as a purchaser for-a valuable consideration, without notice; and he takes only what the vendor could lawfully
convey.
A warranty, either lineal or collateral, is no bar-to an heir, who does not claim
the property to which the warranty is attached by descent, but as a-purchaser
thereof.
Whether a bill in equity is open to the objection of multifariousness or not,
must be decided upon all the circumsiances of the 1iarticular-case. No geuerat rule can be laid down upon the subject; and much must be left to the discretion of the court.
The objection of multifariousness can be taken by a party to the-bill only by
demurrer, or plea, or answei, and cannot be taken at the hearing of the
cause. But the court itself may take the objection at any time-at the hearing or otherwise. The.objection cannot be taken by a party in the appellaie
court.
Lapse of -time is no bar to a sulis ting trust in real property. The bar does.
not begin to run until knowledge- of some overt act of an 'adverse claim or
right set up by the trustee is brolight home to the ceitui q'uetrust. 'the lapse
of any period less than twenty years will not bar the cestui qgutrust of his remedy in equity, although he may have been gufilty of some negligence, where'

334

SUPREME COURT.
Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

the suit is brought against his trustee, who is guilty of the breach of trust,,or
others claiming under him with notice.
Where exceptions are .taken to a master's report, it is not necessary forthe
court formally to allow or disallow them on the'record. It will be suffclent,
if it appears from the record, that all of them have been considered by the
court, and allowed or disallowed, and the report reformed accordingly.
There is no principle of the common law which forbids individuals from associating together, to purchase lands of the United States on joint account at a
public sale.

Tuis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the district of Ohio, sitting as a court of equity.
The record was -very voluminous, consisting of nearly eight hundred printed pages. The acts and declarations of the parties were
given in evidence, running through a period of twenty years; and
the case being an appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court, as a
court of equity, all this matter was brought up to the Supreme Court.
It is impossible, therefore, to put into this statement all the eircumstarices which had a bearing upon the point in issue, which was,
-Whether a trust did or did not continue in a valuable body of land.
MTe leading incidents in the' history of the case are these
In the summer of 1817, two distinct companies were formed at
Cincinnati for the purpose of purchasing lands at the public sales of
the United States, to be shortly held at Wooster, in the state of
Ohio ; the object being to lay out and establish a town in the reserve
of twelve miles square on the Miami of Lake Erie, since called the
Maumee river.
One company, called the Piatt Company, was composed of the
following persons.: John H. Piatt, William M. Worthington, Gorham A. Worth, and Robert Piatt, the plaintiff in the suit below,
bnd now defendant in error.
The other company was called the Baum Company and composed
of ihe following persons: Martin Baum, Jacob Burnett, William C.
Schenck, Wlliam Barr, William Oliver, (one of the plaintiffs in error,) Andrew Mack and Jesse Hunt.
What the articles of agreement were between the members of the
Piatt Company the record did not show.
On the 7th of June, 1817, the Baum Company entered into the
following articles of -hgreement-Mack being admitted to half a
share, the whole interest was .divided into thirteen parts, whereof
Mack 'held one-thirteenth and each of the other persons twothirteenths :"We, the undersigned, agree to enter into a partnership for the
purpose of purchasing lands and lots at the public sales to be held
at Wooster, on the seventh and fifteenth of July next; and for the
purpose of effecting the said purchases, we agree to borrow, at the
Office of Discount and Deposit at Cincinnati, the sum of eight thou,sand dollars for which sum, and for all purchases made by our
agents, either at the phiblic sales or otherwise, we hold ourselve3

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

835

Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

jointly and equally liable. And we do further aglee that William
C. Schenck, William Barr, and William Oliver shall be our agents
to explore the lands and make the purchases. And we do agree
to confirm and comply with any contracts that our agents aforesaid
may make on our account. And it is further agreed that our said
agents shall be authorized to take in any other partner or partners
that they inay see proper, on such terms as they may esteem advantage ous. And it is further agreed that in consideration of the
services to be performed by the agents above, their expeises, incidept to making the purchases aforesaid, shall be defrayed by the
other individuals comprising the company.
C1 In.witness whereof we have hereunto set our hands and seals,
at Cincinnati, this the seventh day of June, eighteen hundred and
seventeen.
MARTIN BAum,
[SEAL.]
JnssE Huqr,
J. BuRNET,

[s

.]

[SEAL.]
[sEAT.]
W. C. SCIMNCK,
W. BAi,
[sEAL.]
WILLIAM OuVER. [SEAL.]"

The Piatt Company appointed Robert Piatt its agent.
On the 23d of June, 1817, Worthington, John H. Piatt, and
Worth addressed a letter of instructions to Robert Piatt, their agent,
directing him how to proceed, and enclosing $4000 to make the
first payment on the lots of land which he might purchase.
The agents having made their. selections, met at Wooster to attend the sales, and then.ascertained that they had each selected the
following tracts, viz.: 1, 2, 3, 4, 86, and 87. In consequence of
this, the following agreement was entered into, viz.:
"We, the undersigned, agree, on behalf of the companies we
represent, to wit: William C. Schenck, of Warren county, Ohio,
and William Oliver, of .Cincinnati, Ohio, for themselves, arid for
Jacob Burnet, Mmrfin Baum, Jesse Hunt, William Barr, and Andrew Mack, all of'Hamilton. county, Ohio; and Robert Piatt, of
Boon county, Kentucky, for himself, and for William M. Worthing*ton, John H. Piatt, and Gorham A.'Worth, all of Hamilton county,.
Ohio, to purchase at the public sales, in Juty, 1817, at Wooster,
lots numbered 1, 2, 3, and 4, at,-and including, the mouth of Swan
creek, n township No. 3, in the United States reserve, at the foot
of the rapids of the Miami of the Lakes, for tbe joint benefit of
both companies; that is, one company to have one-half interest in
the.whole, and the other company to have the other half; each com-'
pany paying one-half of the purchase money. It is further agreed
that Robert Piatt, in behalf of his company and the company of
Schenck and Oliver, shall be the bidder for lots Nos., 1 and 2, and
William Oliver for lots Nos. 3 and 4, they being the above four lots
at the mouth of Swan creek.

36SUPREME

COURT.
Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

"In witness whereof, the parties have hereunto interchangeably
set their hands and seals, this 17th.day of July, 1817.
W. C. SCHENCK,

[SEAL.1
WILTJAM OLIVER, [SEAL.J

ROBERT PIAT.

[sL.]"

And afterwards. the following:
"The undersigned have agreed to,purchase, for the joint beniefit
of their companieg, lots or tracts of land numbered'86 and 87, opposite. the mouth of Swan creek, on the same principles that lots
numbered 1, 2, 3, and 4, at'the mouth of Sivan reek, wdre purchased , as per agreement betwden William "C.Schenck and William Oliver, for themselves -and others and Rob6rtPiatt, for himself
and others, bearing date 17th,Jury, 1817.
[SEAL.]
ROBERT PIATT;
WILux OLIVR. [Sn.&L.]

* On the 18th of July, 1817, in co'nfoiinity with the. above agreements, William Oliver bid in lots No. 3 and 4, and on the 19th of
July, Itobert'Piatt bid in tracts 1, 2, 86 and 87. The original certificales for the tracts bid in by Oli-er, .were made out in his name,
and-for the tracts bid in by -Piatt, in the names of himself, John H.
Piaft, Worth, and Worthington, in conformity with the letter of instructions addressed to him. on the 23d of June.
On the"2-1st Qf July, 1817, Robert Piatt- bid in, for the separate
account of the Piatt company, the following other-tracts, viz.:
North-west qimLrter-section 2, township 3.
South-*,est quarter-section 2, township 3.
South-west quarter-section 3; township 3.
North-west.quaiter-section 3, township 3.
Sbuth-eas.t. quarter-section 3, township 3.
The -first instalment .of the puarcliase money -foit which was -paid
by the Piatt comtany.
On-the 4th of August; 1817, Robert-Piatt-settled" an account with
the Piatt company, giving them crbdit for the four thousand dollars
above mentioned,. and charging them with bnp-half. of the instal.mentswhich had been paid upon Nos. 1, 2i 3, and 4, and with ifie
whole of the .intalments which had-been paid upon Nos. 86 and 87,
and. upon the. five quarter-sections.
. After the -retum of 'the agents to Cincinnai,'a meeting of both
dbmpanies was held;. the acts of the" agents" atWooster were ratified, -and the two companies were; "i respect to their joint pur-chases, consolidated in a- new company-called the Port Lawrence
Company. Martin Baum wa§appointed trustee, for the purpose of
carrying out a resolution of the company that a towuiishould be laid
out upon a part of the land. It was further agreed that Oliver
should be appointed ai agent to lay Dit the town and make-sale of
the lots; and he was -directed, in performing this duty, to call to hbl

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

337

Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

assistance William' C. Schenck, another of the original members of
the Bauni Company.
Each of the companies purchased other lands upon its 'own priyate account.
On the 14th of August, 1817, Oliver executed a bond to Baum
in the penal.sum of twenty thousand dollars, the condition of which
was as follows:
"Whereas.the. above named Martin Baum hath this <day constitutedjand appointed the before-bound William Oliver his agent, with'
power to lay out .a town at the mouth of Swan creak, on the Miami
of the Lakes, and hath authorized the said William to 'sell bad dispose"of the lots in said*town, agreeably to a letter of instructions,
and to receive payment for the same from the purchasers, and to
execute and deliver certificates, in the nature of title-bonds, for the.
lots by him sold. Now the condition of the above obligation is
such, that if the said William Oliver shall in all things well and
truly execute the trust reposed in him by the said Martin Baum, and*
shall render a true account of his proceedings, when required, bad
shall faithfully pay over to the said Martin all moneys by him received for or on account of sales inade in the town to be laid off
by him, as af6resaid, when thereto required, then, and in such case,
the above obligation shall cease and determin., otherwise remain in
full force and virtue."
On the same day, Baum executed a power of' attorney to Oliver,
as follows-:
"Know all men by these presents, that I. Martin Baum, of Cincinnati, in the state of Ohio, for divers good causes and considerations me thereunto moving, have made, constituted,-anld appointed,
and -by these presents do make, constitute, and appoint William
Oliver, of said place, my true and lawful attorney, for me and m,
my name, to sell and dispose of the-lots in a town to be laid off at.
Swan creek, on the Miami of the Lakes, agreeably to a letter of
instructions therewith delivered, and to recei'e payment for the same
from the purchasers, and to execute and-deliver certificates, in the
nature of title-bonds, for the lots by him sold, and to do all lawful
acts requisite for 6ffecting the premises, hereby ratifying and confirming all that my said attorney shall lawfully do therein by virtue
hereof. In testimony whereof,"- &c. &c.
On the same day Baim delivered to Oliver a letter and a set of
instructions. The letter is as follows:
' Cincinnati, .flugust 14th, 1817.
fSm :-You will observe by the power of attorney this dayhanded
.to you, that you are appointed an agent to lay out a town at the
mouth of Swan creek, on the Miami of Lake Erie. Your appointment is for one year, commencing this day; for which services so
rendered, you are entitled to receive from the proprietors twelve
hundred dollars. And the proprietors of the lands lying in that
2F
VoL1I.--43

888

SUPREME COURT.
Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

country, but which, is a distinct concern from the above, have
agreed to allow you three hundred dollars for attending to their se"Your obedient servant,
parate business.,
.MARTnr Biu."
CMr.W. OLxVER."
The-instructions were as follows:
(I Cindnnati, 141h .igus, 1817.
"D&rnA Sm :-Asagent for the proprietors of the land recently
purchased at Swan creek, you will, immediately uppn the receipt of
these instructions, proceed to that place, and commence the laying
6ff a town. General.Scheck, who accompanies you, will assist m
the survey of the ground, in determining the site, and in the r-rngement and formation of the plat. In running the streets, and
tha
of the proprietors
notsacrificed
the wishtform;
that the growth
interest
or convenience-should
of the lots, it is be
in the division
of the place should be retarded by a useless adherence to any particular figure, or to any fanciful uniformity of squares. The number of lots to be laid off may be from tnre e to.. five hundred, and,
with the exception of water lots and fractional sections, of about
sixty feet in front and one hundred and twenty feet in depth. The
principal ar central street should be at least one hundred and' sixty
feet wide; others from eighty to a hundred; the alleys from twelve
to ifteen.- Let there be three lots, each of. one hundred andtwehty
feet squar'e,. set off for public uses, churches, schools, &c. ; and one,
of two hundred and forty feet. square,- for court-house and jail.
There should also be reserved one or two suitable lots out of the
intention of the
town for burying grounds. It is not, however, the
en do to any specific number of feet and
.proprietors o toie
othe lots, but they leave
:r ie
ince s in the width of the se
bf his own judgment, and recommend to him
to
the
use"
of exercise
that sound discretion which his better knoedge of the
thehim
ground, and his pactica information, will enable him to display, to
the interest and advantage of all concerned.
feesoon.as
A
thesurveys have been made, and a pat of the town
formed, it is necessary 'that a copy of them should be immediately
f-rwarded to the proprietors, as also a notice of the time of sale,
which, if practicable, should correspond with the time of holding
the treay with the Indians; andon this subject it is necessary, that
if
aist information. In te disposition
th agent should obta
and - arraagements of the lots for sale, let one-third of the whoe
number tten in different section s of the town be reserved for the
use and benefit of the proprietors or for future disposal.
"The trs'of
sale, one-fourth down, and the residue in three
equal-annuakinstalments, with interest from date, if not punctually
Paid; subject, however, t such variations as the -judgment of the
agent may dictafe, or particular circumstances require:. .Animmediate: correspondence is to be opened by -the agent -with Martin

JANUARY TERM, 184.

839

Oliver et al. v. Piatt.
Baum, Esq., -of this city, who will act as trustee for the proprietors,
and any information given to him in relation to the business of the
agency, the sale of the lots, and the progress of the town, that may
be thought of any consequence to the interests of the proprietors,
or that may be required by the trustee. It is the intention of the
proprietois to give public notice of the time of the sale, and it is
necessary that this notice should be as general and as widely spread
as possible; the agent will, therefore, immediately, upori the times
being fixed, forward the proper advertisement to Detroit, Buffalo,
Albany, New York, Philadelphia, Pittsburg, Chillicothe, and to the.
trustee in.this city, for publidation. The instructions of the trustee
are,, in all respects, to be regarded as coming from the proprietors
themselves.
Wishing you a safe and pleasant journey, and an easy and prosperous management of the trust committed to your care, we remain,
with great respect, &c., your obedient servant,
MAnrn~ BA uM,
Trustee for the Proprietors.
To Major WM. OLIVE"R.
In another part of She record, the same paper is found, with a few
and unimportant variations, hu' the names of these persons are signed
to it, viz., Barr, Mack, Burne,, Worthington, Hunt,- John H. Piatt,
Worth, and Baum.
The agents proceeded to lay out a town, and on the 20th September, 1817, offered the lots for sale, according to the following
advertisement"Terms of sale.
"Terms of sale of lots in the town of Port Lawrence.: One-fourth
down; the balance in three equal annual instalments; with interest'
from the date of purchase, if.not punctually paid; and'if the whole
amount of the. purchase money is not paid when the last instalment
becomes due, the lots now purchased shall revert to -theproprietors
of Port Lawrence. The undersigned reserve the privilege of one
W. 0. Sc -cx,
bid on each lot offered.
Mzami Rapids, Sept. 20, 1817."1 WILLIM OLIVER, Agents.
At the sale, seventy-nine lots were sold. Two of them, viz., Nos..
223 and 224, were purchased by Oliver himself, with the assent,-as
he alleged in his answer, of the company, and of Martin Baum, the
trustee.
On the 5th of October,. 1817, Schenck gave to Oliver the following receipt:
i .namli Rapids, Oct. 5, 1817.
"Received from William Oliver, agent, eight hundred and fiftyfive dollars and thirty-three cents, the proceeds of sales of lots in the

340

SUPREME COURT.
Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

town of Port Lawrence, for which I am accountable to Martin Baum,
of Cincinnati.
cc $855 33. (Signed duplicates.)
W.C. Scn=cx."
In January, 1818, Oliver went to Port Lawrence, and spent the
winter there. In May, 1818, he returned to Cincinnati, about which
time he was elected cashier of the Miami Fxporting Company, and
entered upon the duties of his office on the 1st of-July, 1818.
On the 14th of August; 1818, Oliver, as it was alleged by him in
his answer Io the bill, sold and transferred one half of his interest in
the Baum Company, and also -in the Port -Lawrence Company, to
Steele-& Lytle, they assuming all. outstanding liabilities; and in an
early part-of the ensuing spring, the remaining half of his interest inboth companies to Embree & Williams.
On the 19th of September, 1818, Oliver and Worthington made
a division of the lots in the town of Port Lawrence, between Martin
Baum and John H. Piatt, these persons representing their respective'
One hundred and fifty-seven lots were assigned to
-companies.
Piatt, and' one hundred and fifty-eight to Baun.
On the 24th of Ap.il, 1820, Congress passed an act, entitled -.' An
act making further provision for the sale of the public lands," changlands from credit to cash, and reducing the
in thef mode of seli
price from two dollars to one dollar.afd twenty-five cents per acre.
in the
embarrassment
generaldepress
The effect of this law, and of thebill,
the
of buthegproects
to the
the answer
it
occurred toabout this period , as
which
was alleged
6f theincountry
siness
inthe
of
to
condition
pecumiary
resolved
the
ad
they
txentioned,
that
before
extent
compares
dividual members thereof, t such an
rather than
them tthe United States,
abandon the lands, and forfeit
was done,
this
before
But
due.
pay the instalments which were.sill
act of Congress.
the intention was changed by another
passed "An act for the relief
Congress
1821,
March,
of
On the"2d
the first day of Jul, 1820,"
to
pncor
lands
publi
of
of thepurchasers
of the land so
relinquishment
tllowed a purchaser to file a
which
such.
for been
paid fot
been had
upon hich the whole purchase
alreadymoney
purchased,
paid, and apply the sums which had
any
upon
due
be
might
which
payments
of
land, to the completion
transferred to Bum the
other-land.
On he 15th of September, 1821, Oliver
H.
at the public
Johnsale,
he had
September,
3 and 4,
of for
17thbid
tof
ertficates of Nos.
on the
andwhich
describE6d;
aheretofore
1 2, 86,
Worthington,
for the
M. Ndos.
and William
Woith,
the certificates
Piatt, G.
Bam
to A.
Piatt,
in transferring
united Robert
instrusame
sale; and by the
and 87, which they had id fol at tetransferred to Baum the certifiment the lastmentionedl. ar8es also
hic it has already been stated
w
cates for te five qater-sections,
private accoutht, at the
j .or
6n.ti
the Piatt Co paiy purhased

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

841

Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

public sale. Both transfers were-absolute, to Martin Baum, his heirs
and assigns, for ever.
On the 27th of September, 1821, Baum, to whom the certificates
had thus been assigned, filed, by Micajah T. Williams, his attorney
in fact, a relinquishment og tracts Nos. 1 and 2, and requested that
the proceeds of former instalments might be applied to the completion of the payments still due upon 3, 4, 86, 87, .and the five quar;
ter-sections. . The.consequence. of this transaction was, that as Nos.
1 and 2 had been bought at a'much higher price than the other tracts;'
.the credit acquired on the books of the government by their yelinquishmen.t was more than enough to complete the payments for all
the other lands mentioned above, and a surplus exiited, in the form,
of land-scrip, which might either have been sold or applied to a payment for other lands. Four hundred and seventy-four. dollars and
fifty-nine cents of this scrip belonged to the Piatt Company, and was
applied by the Baum Company-in payment for lands which that company had purchased. The following is the account
Lands surrendered.
Tract No. 1.
Amount' paid on it, $1,015 051
Tract No. 2.

Amount paid on it, 3,802 50

Lands not surrendered.
Swan Creek, 3,
$607 '35
"
" 4,
271 71
"
C
86,
.73 3]
"
" 87,
149 96t
5 quarter-sections,
1248 00

'On the 27th of September, 1821, Oliver made a memorandum,
or addressed a letter to some person, stating several particulars
which he had attended to at Maumeei directing the land to be run
out, counsel to be employed, &c., &c.
On the 20th of January, 1822, Baum presented a petition to Congress, representing that he had laid out a town upon tracts Nos. 1
and 2, and sold a number of lots to persons to whom he was bound
to give a title; that in consequence of .the late law of Congress, re-'
ducing the price of the public lands, he had been obliged to surrender them; and praying that Congress would authorize an immediate
sale of those twq tracts of land, so as to give him an opportuuity to
re-purchase them at a fair price, and thus-be enabled to.fulfil his engagements to those who had purchased of him.
On the 10th- of September, 1822, Baum gave to Oliver the folloving certificate.
"Cincinhati, Sept. 10; 1822.
"Itis hereby certified, that there is due William Oliver, from the
Port Lawrence Company, two hundred and thirteen dollars and
seven cents, which said Oliier refunded, by'request of the company,
to purchasersof lots in Port Lawrence, the title of which has oeen
telinquished to the United States by the company; it being the
2F2

842

SUPREME COURT.
Oliver et al v. Piatt.

amount due on the shares originally owned by John H; Piatt, Robert Piatt, G. A. Worth, and William M. Worthington.
"1 MAitTIN BAUm,

"Agent for the Port Lawrence Land Company."
On the 25th of December, 1822, Baum addressed a letter to the
Hon.,E. A. Brown, Washington City, enclosing his petition, to be
again presented, and saying, amongst other things, "though it is
signed by myself only;, still others have an inferest iii it, to wit, Jacob Burnet, William Steele, M.- T. Williams, S. R. Miller, John
Rowan, of Kentucky; but, for the sake of convenience, all the lands
of the company were transferred to me. The petition gives a true
statement of facts; the grounds why those tracts were surrendered to
the United States; the injurious operation of the law of Congress
(called the relief law) bi the case; and the just claim which (I think)
I and my associates have on the government for redress," &c., &c.
In-January, 1823, Baum, came into arrangements with some of
those who had puichased town-lots, and to whom he was unable to
ve a title, agreeing for himself and his associates to re-purchase•
e lots and refund the money which he had received on them.
On-the 3d of February, 1823, Oliver addressed the following letter to Robert, Piatt, which was .received.by him:
"indnnati, ebruary 3d, 1823.
CfDEAR Sm :-I have been anxious to see you in relation to the
Port Lawrence business, and was on the.eve of setting off yesterday
for your house, but have concluded to write, requesting the favour
of your attention to the matter. In consequence of the company's
securing the Port Lawrence property,*they are liable to the purchasers for the money received for lots; and as some of my friends
in Detroit were disposed to bear pretty-hard on me for advising
them "to :purchase, I authorized Colonel Hunt to rddeem the, certificates of sale from those who had purchased by my advice.- The
pLayments made in this way were upwards of $400. M. Baum's
,company have refunded their proportion, biut my claim ($213 07,
which is from the* 10th of last Septdmb~r, 1822) against you is
unsatisfied ; and as we are'at a loss to know'the particular- interest
of the mem'.ers of your company, I must ask the favour of your
stating the'present proprietord, and their. respective interests in the
concern. Please say wlen it will be. convenient for you to arrange
your proportion, as also to request Mr. Grandon to pay on his share
or shares. Respectfully, your obedient servant,
." WILL. OLIVER.
"R. PrArT,Esq."
On the 6th of February, 1823, Baum addressed another letter to
M . Bfown upon the subjedt of his p.etition, representing that the
case wad a ruinous one to him' anrd his- associates, &c., &c.
On the 3d of June, 1823, Oliver exhibited an account against

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

343

Oliver et al. v. Piatt..

"Martin Baum and his associates," running from 1818 to June,
1823, and, bringing them in debt to Oliver in the sum of
$1835 47.
On the 27th of August, 1S23, Baum mortgaged to Oliver tracts
Nos; 3, 4, 8.6, and 87, to secure the.payment of tlie above sum of
$1835 47 with interest from the Ist of September, 1823. The payment was to be made on or before the 1st of January, 1824.
On the 31st of January, 1824, Baum addressed a letter to the
proprietors of the Maumee and Sandusky Land Company, accompanied by ai account between himself and .the proprietors of Port
Lawrence. The letter was as follows:
"Cincinnati, 31st January, 1824.
"1To the Proprietors of the Maumee and Sandusky Land Co.;
"DrAn Sm :-Enclosed, I hand you a statement of the Port Lawrence land speculation, by which you can see how that 'business
stands, to wit, a balance due me -by the company of upwards of
$4755, and is daily increasing with interest. Suits have b&en
commenced against me for the-restoration of the money which was
paid the company for lots, and the amount of improvements made
thereon, as well as for damages. I was obliged to borrow .roney
to compromise and quiet those claims, for fear Of incurring heavy
damages, great expenses, and much trouble, and probably total
loss oy the company's property by sales, or judgments and executions. The lands have consequently been mortgaged -for the money
borrowed, and unless it is shortly refunded, the ands may Yet be
sold under the mortgage; it is therefore necessary that the proprietors pay to me their respective quotas, to save their lands from sale.
I am extremely anxious to close this business, and therefore propose
that I will exonerate you from paying any. mote money, if you will
sell and convey me your interest in.all those lands. But, lest you
should think that I wish to make a speculation out of you, if you
will exonerate me from paying any more, I will sell you my interest
iii these lands, and will thank you to accept the latter proposition.
It is needless to go into an explanation, as the account will do it of
itself; and my proposition will satisfy you as to the -prospects of
gain. Please inform me soort what course you intend to pursue.
"Yours, respectfully,
MRTmn BAuM."
One of these letters appears to have been directed to Mr. Robert
Piatt, and another to W. M. Worthington, Esq.
On the 23d of April, 1824, Baum'authorized and empowered
Major William Oliver to -lease, let, and rent all- the lands, in and
out-lots; houses, and other property which'he owned, or of which he
had. the control, situate and being within the United States reservation on the Maumee river for the then.present season; and also to
collect all* rentswhich might .he then due on all or any of the said
property.

344

SUPREME COURT.
Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

On the 28th of August, 1824, Baum addressed a letter to G. A.
Worth, Esq., a part of which is as follows:
"1Cincinnati,
28th .August, 1824.
'DnnSm:-Your favour of the 10th April last came duly to
hand-contents noticed. The land speculation has truly been an
unfortunate business, and no one can be more tire, of it than I am;
for it's me who has to stand the brunt of the company-suits judgments, executions; with all its attendant vexations. First, our
agents were crazy in making purchases At such high rates-then
the macness of Congress in reducing the price of -the public lands
-change of times-scarcity of money-the impossibility of nianaging. that species of -property where so many are concerned; the
change of sentiments of persons in holding-real estate; in fact all
and -every thing has operated against%such speculations; and were
I relieved of that concern, an immense burden would be taken off
my shoulders, &c., &c."
-On the 21st of September, 1825, Baum gave to Oliver the following powr
"nnna, 21st ept., 1825.

-

"I have and hereby authorize and empower Major William Oliver to lease, let, and rent all the lands, in and out-lots, houses. and
other property which I own, or of which I have the control, situate,
lying, and being within the, United States' reservation, on the Maumee river, for the ensuing season; and also to collect all rents or
other moneys due me in and about the town of Maumee and Port
Lawrence.
MAnTm Bium."
On the 5th of October, 1825, Oliver commenced proceedings in
attachment in Michigan, by making the following affidavit:
"Martin Baum, agent for John H. Piatt,'(since deceased,) Robert
Piatt, G. -A. Worth, and William M. Worthington, to William Oliver, debtor, for the sum of two hundred and thirteen -.- , dollars,
being, the amount refunded to pairchasers of the lots in Port Lawrence, by request of said Baum, w l* interest from the 10th day of
September, 1822.
"Michigan, .onroe county, ss:
, '"I,William Oliver, of lawful age, do solemnly swear that the
sum mentioned in the above account is justly due from the persons
therein named; that they do not reside within the territory of Michigan, and -that he has reason to fear, unless an attachment issues
upon the property of the persons aboVe named, his debt cannot be
recovered. .
Wmr. OLIVER.
"Swdm this 5th day of October, 1825, before me,
"P.TR P. FPmy, Justice of the Peace."
On the '7th of October, 1825, an order was filed in the office of
the clerk of Monroe county court, for an attachment against the'

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

46

Oliver et -al. v- Piatt.

rights and credits, moneys and efflects, goods and chattels,-lands
and tenements of.the parties above named.' The writ was issued
on the same day.
On the 15th of October, 1825, an attachmeit was laid upon the
South-west quarter of section 2, townsliip 3.
North-west quarter of section 3, township 3.
South-west quarter of section 3.
South-west qbarter of section 4.
The three'irst of thesgwere included in the original purchase by
Piatt and subsequent transfer. to Baum The fourth belonged .to
some other transaction and is not involved in this case. The whole
four were appraised; collectively, at $1200."
The suit went on, no one appearing for the defendants, intil Oc
tober, 1826, when it appearing that notice to defdndants in attachment had been publistWd nine.months, judgment w's entered against
them, a fierifacas issued, and, on-the 5th of April, 1828, the property was sold .to Charles Xoble for $24i 60 cents, who on the
same day conveyed -itto Oliver.
Having traced out the-proceedings, under the attachment to their
consummation, it is necessary to,go back to the year 1825.
On the 13th of October, 1825, Oliver-filed a bill in the Supreme.
Court of the territory of Michigan, sitting as a court of chancery, to
forecJose the mortgage which had been given by Baum on the 27th
of August, 18W3. Baum being a non-resident, a notice to him to
appear was blished for nine weeks successively n a newspaper
published atsyonroe.
On the 7th of December, 1827, the bill was. taken pro confesso,
and on the 5th of September, 1828, the coturt decreed that the-property should be sold, which was accordingly done. Oliver became
the purchaser, and received a deed from the register, who had been
directed to make the sale.
To return again to the chronological order of dvents.
Congress having made a donation of'land to the University 6f
Michigan; 4he trustees of-that institution resolved, on the 25th of
June, 18.27, to accept of. No. 1 in lieu of a section, in the expectation that in the evenit that lot No. 2 should revert to the United
States, then the same should be considered a part of the section to
which they were entitled finder the act, and requested the chairman
to advertise the Treasury Department thereof.
On the 20th of July, 1827, Baum addressed a long letter-to the
commissioner of the General Land-office, giving a history of the
Port Lawrence Company, and expressing a desire to re-possess Nos. .
and 2. He then says, "It has been hinted that the trustees of the
Seminary Lands of 'the- Michigan Territ6r have had sufficient influence to delay the sale, with a view to get the privilege of locating
these two tracts for that purpose. If this is the fad, I protest against
such an arrangement. They have- no claim to them whatever, but
VOL. II-.L4

346

SUPREME COURT.
'Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

mine is a strong bne, and I am determined to pursue it in everypossible way till I obtain justice."In August, 1827, Oliver went to )etroit to ascertain if the. tracts
1 and. 2 could' be obtained from the university, but nothing was
then done.
On the 18th of October, 1827, Charles Noble wrote to Benjamin
H. Piatt, one of the heirs of John H. Piatt, who had died, and enclosed him a copy of the proceedings in the attachment at the suit
of Oliver.
On the 18th of February, 1828, Piatt acknowledged the receipt
of this letter, and desired further information.
On the 1st of April, 1828, Noble replied, and enclosed a copy of
the advertisement of the auditor for the sale of the three quarter-sections of land as before mentioned. The sale was to take place on
the 5th of April, 1828.
On the 12th of August, 1828, Oliver opened a negotiation with
the University of Michigan, proposing to give other lands in exchange for Nos. 1 and 2, which was prosecuted without success for
some time.
On the 1st of September, 1828, Qharles W. Whipple, the assistantregister of Michigan, executed to Oliver a deed for Nos. 3, 4, 86,
(excepting sixty acres; which Baum had sold to Prentiss and Tromley in 1823,) and 87. " The deed recited the proceedings for a foreclosure of the mortgage, and conveyed the property to Oliver, his
heirs and assigns for ever.
On the 13th of January, 1830, Congress passed an act, entitled.
CCAn act to authorize the exchange of certain lots of land between
the University of Michigan and Martin Baum and others."
On the 16th of August, 1830, Oliver (called in the proceedings
of the board the agent of Martin Baum and others) appeared before
the trustees of the university on the subject of the exchangi of lands,
which subject was discussed from time to time.
In December, 1830, Oliver (having previously received an assignment of the final certificates from Baum obtained patents for
the following:Lot No. 3.
Lot No. 4.
North-west quarter ofsection 3.
South-west quarter^ of section 3.
South-east quarter of section 3.
South-west quarter of section 2.
Being the whole of the five quarter-sections originally purchased by
the Piatt Company, except the north-west quarter of section -2.
On the 7th of February, 1831, an exchange took place:between
Oliver and the university; -the negotiation therefor having resulted
in an agreement. Oliver ceded to the trustees--Lot No. 3, except ten acres reseived.

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

847

Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

Lot No. 4,
The north-west quarter of section 3.
The south-west quarter of-section 3; and
The south-west quarter of section 2.
The university deeded to Oliver lots Nos. 1 and 2, and authorized
the President of the United States to issue a patent or patents to the
said William Oliver.
On the 4th of March, 1831, a patent was issued to Oliver for.
these lots Nos. 1 and 2.
On the 16th of May, 1831, Oliver sold to Baum and Micajah T.
Williams each one undivided third part of lots Nos. 1, 2, 86, and
87, excepling sixty acres of No. 86, which had been sold by Baum
to Prentiss and Tromley. Each of the two parties was to pay $1555.
The necessary provisipn was made for laying out a town on the property where Port Lawrence was formerlylaid out, makingpartition, &c.
The 8th article *vs as follows: "1The parties agree. to admit a
f6urth person as a proprietor-a man of enterprise and characteron equal terms with themselves, on his establishing himself permanently at Port Lawrence, and devoting himself to the inprovement
of the place.'
O the 19th of September, 1832, under the article just mentiox.:d,
Stephen B. Comstock was admitted to have ,an undivided fourth
part.
On the 224 of October, -1833, Oliver re-purchased -from Baums'
heirs (for he bad died before this time) thp whole of Baum's interest
under the contract of the" 16th May, 1831.
On the 8th of May, 1834, Oliver and ,Villiams sold to Edward
Bissel' one-fourth par of lots Nos. 1 and 2, for $7000..
On the 23d of May, 1834, Oliver sold to Williams an undivided
moiety of 86 and 87.
On the 17th of October, 1834, Oliver sold to Pratt and Taylor'
one undivided sixteenth part of Nos. I and 2, for $4000. They
wdre also to erect a warehouse, two dwelling-houses, and arrange
for a line of steam-boats to stop ,a Toledo, as the town was now
called. And'on the saffe day, he sold to Smith and Macy another
undivided sixteenth, on the same terms.
On the 30th of June, 1835, Oliver sold a portion of the prope.rty
to Lynde and Raymond, for $13,000; in September,, 1835, another
portion to Lot Clark, for $1000, and in January, 1836, another portion to Philander Raymond, for $22,000.
On the 21st of April, 1836, Robert Piatt, the ap~ellee in the present case, filed his bill of complaint in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the district of Ohio, against Oliver and others.
But before narrating the proteedings under this bill, if is proper to
close the history of the transactions of the parties by stating that on
the 5th of May, 1837, Oliver received a deed from the trustees of
the University of Michigan for the property which he had'given to

348

SUPREME COURT.
OliVer et, al; v. Pi-att.

them in exchange as previously related. The property thus conveyed to Oliver consisted of tracts Nos. 3 and 4, the south-west
quarter of sectipn No. 2, the north-west quarter of se.tion No. 3,
.and the -south-west quarter of section No. 3. The consideration
was $5000, and'the sale was stated in the deed to be made "pursuant toa cohtract-entered into between the said trustees and the
said William Oliver, on the twenty-fourth .and twenty-fifth days of
October, .1834."
To return to the. bill, which was filed in 1836. Itmade Oliver
and Williams and a number of other persons, who were the representatives of the original parties, -respondents, most of'whom appeare .
After the pleas, which were filed by the defendants,.were overruled,
an amended bill was filed.
These bills recite the formation of the Piatt and Baum.Companie's;
their union in the Po-rt Lawrence Company. under the circumstances
already'related; the acceptance of the tiust by Baum; the assignmeht to him of the, certificates of purchase; the appointment of
(Oliver as agent; his acceptance thereof; the instructions, bond, and
power of attorney ; the laying out of the town; the sales of lots, ior
which the respondents are called upon to account; the relinquishment of Nos. 1 and 2; the application of. the credits arising there-from to the completibn of the payments.due upon theother tracts;
the understanding 6f. the parties that Ns. 1 and 2 sh6uld bd'repurchased for the benefit of' all cQncerned; whenever it should be
possible to do so; the application to Congress; the death of John
H. Piatt,'in 1822 ; the formation, some short time thereafter, of a
fraudulqnt combination and confederacy between Baum, as trustee,
land Oliver and Williams, as-agents, for the purpose of cheating the
members of the Piatt Company.out of theki1 entire interest and claims;
that in pursuance ofthis fraudulent combinatif Baum issued. to
Oliver the c~rtificate of debt;' that th& complainant resided at.a short
distance from Cincimnati; that about that time, and prior, and long
subsequently thereto, he was during some part of nearly every wee
in Cincinnati iii company with iaid Baum and Oliver, or onebf them.;
that/ they knew-the compljnant to be a man 6f properfy, well able
and willing 'to pay his just debts; that neither Baum nor Oliver
ever gave him the slightest iufor.ation that any such certificate had.
been given; that he had received a letter from. Oliver, dated on the
3d of Februaiy,.1823; that the mortgage given by Baum to Oliver
was without authority, and franduilent and void; that the assignment
*of the certificates for the-quarter-section§ were also fraudulent and
void; the circumstances under which the exchange of lands took
place with the University of Michigan; ihe circumstances also under. which Williams became interested; 'that the proceedings in
Micbigah-were coram njudice aif&void.; that if th'eyvested a title
in Oliv.er, it was to constitute hiri a trustee fqr the complainant with,
others, and that Oliver aid Williims'were acting with a sole view

JANUA7RY TERM, 1845.

.349

Oliver et al. v. Piatt

to benefit themselves at the expense of the complainant and the
other co-proprietors.
The bill then enumerates the orignal parties who were dead,
states their representatives and the assignees of the living, and prays
that hey may all be made defendants.
It-then prays for an injunction, a receiver, &c., &c.
Most of the parties answered, but a notice of- Oliver's and Williams's will be sufficient.
Oliver's answer admitted the formation of. the Baum Company,
of the Port Lawrence Company, but denied that after the'sales any
agreenent was made to 'unite the interests in the several tracts; the
appointment of Baum as the trustee of the Port Lawrenpe Company,
but denied that the object of the trust-was fully stated in the bill ;
illged that Daum was authorized to sdll and dispose of any of the
property on speculation, or f6r payment of claims against the company, &c.; that Baum had also' a'right to dispose of the quartersections, to pay the debts of the Piatt Company; admitted the .instructions, except some of the signatures; the laying out of th6
town; the powe.j of attorney from Baum; the letter from Baum
fixing the appointment for one year, and the compensatiorn therefor;
the sale of lats in the town-; alleged that -ie surrendered up- the
age icy to Baum at the time of his appointment' as cashier of the
Miami Expbrting Company, and that he then closed up his accounts;
that his subsequent acts as temporary agent Were only.to-accommodate Baum; that hd and Baum had erected a warehouse on Qne of
the lots which he 'had purchased at thd sale, 'which circumstance
drew him often to the town; that he had transferred one-half of his
interest in the Baum Company to Steele and Lytle, in 18,18, and the
iemaining half to Embree grid Williams in 181-9; admitted the relinquisbment; denied the intention to re-purchase; that Baum
authorized to negotiate with the. uniiersity, but that he did so in his
own-right and upon his owu account; alleged that the certificate
of debt and mbrtgage were given upon bona fide consideriatikns;
that the members of the Piatt Company, and especially the complainant, were repeatedly urged to satisfy the claims and-release the
lands; that he, the respondent, bid, the full value for the lands, and
more than they would have been sold for to others for -cash; that
the assignment of the certificates was in good faith; explained the
reasons which led to an exchange of land with the. university; that
he purchased back from the university the lands which he haf conveyed- to it, long after all agency for the- companies orfor Baum was
ended.and settled up; denied all fraud and combination; admitted
that he had united Baum andoWilliamg in the subsequent attempt to
build up a town, and relied fipon the lapse bf tm6, the defaults,
laches, and acquiescence of the complainant and the "statutes of
limitation, in bar of the claim set up in the bill: The respondent,
moreover,. admitted or explained a numtber of papers respecting
2G

350

SUPREME COURT.
Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

whinh he had, been interrogated, and then prayed that his answer
might be considered as a cross-bill.
The answer Qf Williams admitted the formation of the Baum
Company, the subsequent formation of the Port Lawrence Company;
averred that in the spring of 1819, Embree, the partner of the respondent, whilst the respondent was. absent in Illinois, purchased
from Oliver an interest of one-thirteenth in the Baum Company;
admitted the relinquishment to the United States of Nos. 1 and 2,
which was made by the respondent himself; that the proceeds of
the large number of tracts standing in the name' of Baum, and thus
relinquished, were ascertained in gross, and a credit entered to that
amount on the lands retained; that the proceeds of tracts Nos. 1
and 2, were $4817 551, and the amount du& to the United States,
on tracts 3, 4, 86, 87, was $1372 36,"and upon the five quartersections $1248; averred that he did n6t know what became of the
balance of $474 60, except thet John H. Piatt and Baum arrafiged
it to their mutual satisfaction; denied that there was any agreement,
understanding, or intention, amongst the members'of the Port Lawreirce Company, to re-purchase tracts 1 and '2; averred that after
the relinquishment the members of the Port Lawrence Company
abandoned Baum, 'and left him to settle the liabilities of the company as he could; denied. all knowledge .or belief that the complainant or Baum attended the public sales in 1827 with the intention of re-purchasing said tracts for, the -benefit of the company, but
on the contrary intended to purchase them on account of other
persons; denied all knowledge or belief that Oliver was authorized
by Baum to open a negotiation with the trustees of the Michigan
University; averred that in May, 1831, Oliver offered to sell to the
respbndent one-fourth of tracts 1 and 2, 86 and 87, except sixty acres
of 86, for a specified sum, and at the same time- offered, another
fourth each to 'Martin Baum and Jacob Bumet, which offer the
respondent accepted, taking one-third instead of one-fouith, as Burnet declined becoming interested ; and in 1832, the respondent purchased an additional sixth from Oliver, which purchases 'together
gave him an interest of one-half, for which" he received a deed in
ee-simple from Oliver and 'wife averrbd that at-the time of paying
the purchase money and receiving the deeds, he had no notice or
knowledge of any rigt, title, claim, demand, or interest, of the
complainant, or the Port Lawrence Company, or any of the members thereof, nor had he any notice, knowledge, information, suspicion, or belief, of any fraud,.or breach of trust, or other transactions.
matters'or things, affecting the titles of said lands, but maintained
that he purchased the same bona fide, in good faith, and for a full
and fair consideration actually paid.
,To all these answers a general replication was filed.
In December, 1840, thebill was taken ls conferred by all the de-.
fendants who had failed to plead, demur, or answer, and the cause

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

851

Oliver -e aL v. Piaft.

came on for hearing upon the bills; answers, replications, testimony
and exhibits, when the court passed the following decree:
"1The court do here find that the-law and equity of the case ate
with the complainant; but because the court here are not fully advised as to the exact nature and extent' of the relief to which the
complainant is entitled, so as to enable them to render up a final
decree in the premises, it is therefore adjudged, ordered, and decreed, that this cause be, and the same is hereby, referred to Aaron
F. Perry, as special master commissioner, *'ho is hereby instructed
to make out, and report to us at our- next term, an amount of the
sales made in Whol or in part of tracts one, two, three, four, eighty-"
six, eighty-seven, and the five quarter-sections, designatingthe date
and amount of sales in .eachtract, title made, moneys received and
due, and also an accouiit of all moneys expended, either in thepurchase or 'improvement of each tract, by the d6fendants Williams and
Oliver, or either of them, including compensation for the agency
exercised in the general management of the property, and such other.
matters of fact and calculations a either pirty may deem necessary,
in order to a just and equitable decree in the premises ; and for that
purpose he is hereby invested with power to demand the production
of any books, papers, and accounts in*
possession of either of the
parties, to examine them, if necessary under oath, touching any particular matter or thing connected with the matters in contest, to ex-_
amine and take the* eposition'of witnesses, to withdraw any exhibit
or paper now ,on file with the clerk, giving a receipt therefor, and
perform eery act necessary to a proper adjustment of the accounts
and transactions -of the parties. He is hereby required to deliver
to each party demanding *the. same, a copy.Qf his. report twenty
days. previous to the next term of this court, until which time this
cause is continued."
In addition to the points upon which the master was flirected in
the decree to report, the solicitor for *thdcomplainant'stated twentyfive others, and the respondent fourteen, as matters :of. fact and cal-culation which they respectively deemed necessary.
On the 3d of July; 1841, the master presented a very Yviuminous
report, occupying nearly five hundrped pages of the printed record.
To this report the complainant filed twenty-one exceptions, LA'd the
defendants ten. ' They related chiefly to matters of detail and account, which it would.be difficult to understand unless the whole
report were here inserted.
In July, 1842,other parties were madeifi placeof those who had
died;' and John Rowan, a citizen of Kentucky,. filed his answer
voluntarily, claiming an interest of sixthirteenths in the Baum
Company.
Af the same term the court referred the ease to Edward D. Mansfield, master, to report the deduction of title as. claimed by each of
the parties.

852L

SUPREME COURT.
Oliver e,& al. v. Piatt

On the 22d of July, 1842, the master,. in conformity with the
above reference, reportedthe deduction and then condition of the
several titles.
At the safte term, additional parties were made, to represent the
dead, and-the case was again referred to Mansfield, with the follow-'
ing instructions; viz.: " To state separate accounts of the compensation ivhich, upder all the circumstances, ought to be made to the
said William Oliver and to the said Micajah T. Williams for their
services; -and also an acdount Tor expenses in the procurement,
management, and improvement, in the value of the trust property,
consisting of-tracts 1, 2, 86, 87, and the ten acres in No. 3; afid
that the said master also restate separate accounts touching the
moneys or other proceeds arising to said Oliver and Williams,
from sales made prior to the filing of the bill, of any parts of said
trust property-; and also of the account of said Oliver against the
Port Lawrence or Piatt Compahy, for advances not heretofore reimbursed..
'Inestimating services, exypenses, &c:, the master is to have reference -tothe advantage derived from said expenses and services,'&c,;
as well to tracts Nos. 3 and 4, and the half-section No. 3, and southwest quarter-section No.2, township 3, as to the tracts before named.
And that in performing this order, the master, besides having reference to the papers, depositions, &c., now on file, may take further
testimony,. or further examine the parties if be deems it necessary.
On the 27th of July, 1842, the master filddla report, entering
minutely into the several matters of account, to which four of the
defendants took four exceptions.
On the 29th of July, fresh parties were made in the place of some
Xmore who had died, aiid the master made two.additional reports, to'
which Oliver and Williams took twelve exceptions.
On the 30th of July, the court pronounced the following final
decree
"1lst. That Philip Grandin -and Hannah C. Grandin his wife,
Mary P. Ewing, Egbert T. Smith 2nd Sarah .. Smith his wife,
Nathaniiel G. Pendleton, William J. Van Horn and Margaret Van
Horn- his wife, John Spencer and Susan Spencer his wife, Samuel
Perry,1 as administrator of Martin Baum, deceased, Jacob Burnet,
tbe administrator of William '. Schen&, deceased, William J. Van
Horn, as administrator of William Barr, deceased, having been duly
served with process requiring them to appear and answer the complainant's bills, and they'not having. app eared, plead, demurred to,
or answered the same, as required by the rules of this court,. the
said bills, and the matters therein contained, are hereby, as against
them respectively, declgred to be taken as confessed.
"2d.. That the rights of the defendants, Isaac'D.unn, the unknown
heirs of William Steele, deceased, Alexander Findley and Ann Ellen
Findley his wife,'Woodhull S. Schenck, Andrew Mack, Israel T.
-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

853

Oliver*et aL v. Piatt.

Canby, and Gorham A.- Worth, who are not inhabitants of the state
of Ohio, or found within the district of Ohio and jurisdiction of
this honourable court, if any they or -either of them have, or hath,
in and to the lands and premises in question, be, and the same are
hereby, reserved to them respectively, in as full and ample a manner as if this decree had never been rendered.
"13d. That Eleanor Baum, Egbert T. Schenck, Elizabeth Schenck,
James F. Schenck, jun., Susan Louisa Pepdleton, Martha Pendleton, George Hunt Pendleton, Elliott Hunt Pendleton, Ann Pierce
Pendleton, Nathaniel Pendleton, Mary Barr, William W. Barr, and
David Barr, the infants, defendants, are hereby respectively allowed
six months after ataining majority, to show cause, if any he, she,
or they, hath or have -againstthis decree.
"4th. ,And the court further'decree, that all bonafide sales, interests, and undivided interests, in and to lots in the town of Toledo,
in the ten. acres of trect number three; and in the lots 86 and 87,
made by the said Oliver and Wiliams, before the filing of the original bill in this case; together with the sixty acies sold by MartinBaum to Tromley and Prentiss in tract 86, be, and the same are
hereby, ratified and confirmed; and as to any of said sales not -yet
perfected by conyeyances, and as to which the outstanding claims
upon the purchasers have been reported on, it is decreed that the
same inure to the said Oliver and Williams, and they are -empowered to receive the amounts due thereon to their own use, and .to
convey the land to the purchasers: And all donations, appropriations, and dedications of any parts of said several tracts of land for
any public use, heretofore made, be, and the same are hereby, confirmed to the' original purpose of the *donation, appropriation, or
dedication. And inasmuch as Benjafiain S..Brown, to whom, by
the resolution of the proprietors, on the 17th September, 1837, the
lots Nos. 109, 110, 111, were to be co'nveyed for the purpose of the
appropriation of those lots, has departed this life, it is ordered, with
the assent of the parties to this suit, in interest, that Richard Mott
be, and he is hereby, appointed trustee, instead of said Brown, to
carry out said appropriation. And the partition heretofore made.
between the -said.Oliver and Williams, and their assignees of interests, be, and the same is hereby, ratified -and confirmed, to the
respective, parties thereto,. according to the, original intent of the
same; and it is further decreed, that the lease iaade by the said
Williams to Garret D. Palmer, on the 24th Noveinber, 1840, be,
and the same is hereby, confirmed; and the rents accruing and to
accrue on said lease, since the 1st day of July, 1842, inure to the
benefit of the parties in'iiiterest, as.settled by this decree.
-"5th. That'the said'Oliyer and Williams hold the legal, title to
the following tracts of land mentioned in the pleadings, not other'wise disposed of in this decree, that is to say: tracts 1 and 2, 86,
87, and ten acres of tract 3, in trust, for -thems6lves and the other
2 G2
VOL. Mi.--4

SUPREME COURT.

854

Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

of the -Port Lawrence Company, so called, and those now
holding and representing their interests, as tenants in common, in
the proportions affixed to their names, that is to say, dividing the
whole into 2832 parts, then the said trust is-.
989 6-10 parts.
.
.
For Alexander H. Ewing

-members

John Rowan
.
Robert Piatt .
John G. Worthington
William Oliver
Micajah T. Williams

.

.

.
-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

6-10
5-10
5-10

5-10
8-10

219 5-10

the heirs of William M. Worthington
,the heirs of John H. Piatt

496
219
219
165
82

-

439 parts. For the

said heirs of J. H:Piatt, being Benjamifi M. Piatt, Abraham S. Piatt,
Hannah C. Grandin wife ofPhilip Grandin, each one-fourth part of
the said 439 parts, and for the heirs of Frances Dunn the other fourth,
viz.: John P. Dunn, Jacob P. Dunn, George Dunn, Strange S. Dunn,
Hannah M. Tousey wife of George Touset, Sarah Jane Layton wife
of William Layton, each one-seventh of said fourth; and Francis
E. Smith, and Adam C. Smith, each one-fourteenth of said fourth.'"6th. And the court do further drder, adjudge, and decree, that
the iaid Oliver and-Williams do, within five -months from the date
of this decree, by deeds, with special covenants, to be prepared by
each of said parties for their respective interests, convey to each-of
said parties, in fee-simple, the undivided proportion of said trustestate affixed to his or her name as aforesaid, together .with'the undivided interests in the same proportions in the wha'ves, ferries, &c.,
heretofore reserved for the use of the said Oliver and Williams in
their former conveyances; and also the same proportions of all
public edifices, materials, andadvantages:heretofore reserved to the
said Oliver and Williams, saving to said Oliver and Williams the
hotel materials; and also, in the same proportions, the interests
remaining in the. said Oliver and Williams in and to the following
common and other property, that is to say: lots numbered 109,
110, 111, 119, 120, 121, 162,.and 163, in the town of Toledo, and
any others in which there is any such interest in said Oliver and
Williams, they, the said Oliver and Williams, retaining in themselves only the proportions pertaining to them and .ascertained as
aforesaid. And it is further decreed,- that the said Oliver and Williams permit the said parties, respectively, to enter into the possession, and enjoymient of their said portion of said estate as tenants in
common. And it is further ordered and decreed; that the said Oliver and Williams do, within the said sixty days, transfer to the said
parties respectively, .without recourse, in the same proportions, the
demand on the books of said Oliver and Williams agaifist Andrew
Palmer, as agent, now amounting, according; to the report of themaster, to the sum of $5568 79; and the like demand against Ed-ward Bissell, now ambunting, according fo said report, to the sum

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

855

Oliver et al. v..Pia.t t.
of $2427 35; and also the like demand against Stephen B Comstock, now amounting, according to said report, to the sum of
$976 62; the said three-sums being reported as due from the said
Palmer, Bissell, and Comstock, of moneys which came to their
hands as agents connected with thi" sale of lots and improvements
in said town of Toledo.
C' 7th. It is further ordered and decreed, in respect of the moneys
heretofore received by the said Oliver and Williams, or either of
them, from sales, rents, or otherwise, arising from either of said
tracts of land, which is not allowed to the said Oliver and Williams
for compensation for their *services, or for expenses on account of
said trust prop6rty, that there remains in their hands, as said trustees, the sum of $2237 35 ; which said sum is held by them in trust
for themselves and the other parties, in-the same proportions hereinbefore found and decreed as to the said trust lands; and apportioning the- same according to said rule, the parties will be entitle.d to
the followin sums:
To said Aexander H. Ewing -.
$781 76
John Rowan
.
392 35
Robert Piatt .
.
.
.
173 40
John G. Worthington 173 40
William Oliver
130 78
Micajah T. Williams 65 39
Alice Worthington, executrix and trustee of
Win. M. W.
173 40
heirs of John H. Piatt 346 80
"And of the share of the said- John H. Piatt, the following are
the portions of his heirs, that is to say,
To Benjamin M. Piatt $86 70
Abraham S. Piatt.
.
86 70
Hannah C. Grandin 86 70
John P. Dunn
12 33
Jacob P. Dunn
12 33
George Dunn
12 33
Strange S. Dunin "
12 33
Hannah M. Tousey
12 33
Sarah Jane Layton
"12 33
Francis E. Smith
616
Adam C. Smith
.
6 16
"And the court order and decree, that the said Oliver and Williams pay, within five months from the date of this decree, the saia
several sums, except those opposite their own names, with interest;
and in default thereof, that execution issue therefor as at law.
"11 8th. That the said William Oliver, having held the legal title to
the south-east quarter of section 3, township 3, in the said reserve,'
as trustee, in trust for the complainant and the other members of the
Piatt Company, on the 25th day of July, 1835, at the time he sold

856

SUPREME COURT.
Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

-

and conveyed the same to William J].Daniels, for the sum of $1000,
whereby the said complainant and the other members of said company, their heirs or legal representatives, became, and are now entitled to their proportionate shares of the avails of said sale, with the
interest which has accrued thereon, amounting, in the aggregate, to
$1420 ; that is to say, eachare entitled to the proportionate shares
of said avails annexed -to their names respectively, viz. :
The complainant, one-eighth part,
$177 50
Alexander H. Ewing, three-eighth parts, 532 50
John G. Worthington, one-eighth part,
177 50
Alice Worthington, as executrix- and trustee of
Win. M. Worthington, dec'd, one-eighth part, 177 50
The heirs of J. H. Piatt, deceased, two-eighth parts, 355 00
That is to say, of the share of the said John
H. Piatt, his heirs are entitled as follows, to wit:
Berijamin M. Piatt the sum of
88 75
Abraham S. Piatt
..
. 88 75
Hannah C. Grandin
.
.
.
.
. 88 75
John P. Dunn ..
"12 68
Jacob P. Dunn 12 68
George Dunn 12 68
Strange S. Dunn .
..
.
. 12 68
Hannah M. Tousey 12 68
Sarah Jane Layton'
12 68
Francis E. Smith
6 34
Adam C. Smith '1, 6 34
"It is therefore further decreed, that the said defendant, Oliver,
do, within five months from this date, pay to the complainant and
the heirs and legal representaives of the original proprietors of the
Piatt Company the above sums, annexed to their respective names,
with" interest from this date, or that executions issue therefor as on
judgments at law.
"9th. That Mary P.-Ewing, in her own 1ight, and the said Alexander H;Ewing, in right of his wife, the said Mary P. Ewing, being
invested .with the legal title to the north-west quarter of section 2,
township, 3, in said reserve, as trustee, in trust for the complainant
and those now holding and-,representing their interest in the Piatt
Company; that is to say, in trust for the persons, and in the propoitions annexed to their respective names, as follows:
The complainant, one-eighth part,
20 acres.
Alexander H. Ewing, three-eighth parts, 60
John G. Worthington, one-eighth part,
20
Alice Worthington, executrix and trustee of Win.'
- M. Worthington, deceased, one-eighth part, 20
Heirs of John H. Piatt, deceased, two-eighth parts, 40
That is to say,
Benjamin M. Piatt10

357

YANUARY TER.M, 1846.
Oliver et al. %-Piatt.

Abraham S. Piatt
- 10 acres.
Haiinah C. Grandin, wife of Philip Grandin,
10
1.
John P. Dunn
l3
Jacob P. Duna
George Dunn ..
.
.
.
.
.
.
1,4
.1
Strahge S. Dunn 1
Hannah M. Toupey, wife of George Tousey,
13
Sarah Jane Layton, wife of Win. Layton,.
Francis E. Smith
Adam C. Smith .
; It is .therefore further dedreed, that the said Alexander H. Ewing
ana Mary P. .Ewing his wife, do, within sixty days from the date
of this decree, by deed, with special covenants, (to be prepared by
each of said paries for their respective interests,) convey to the said
parties in fee-simple, except the said John G. Worthington, to whbm
a conveyance of his proportion has already be6n made, the undivided
proportion of said trust-;estate affixed to his or her name as aforesaid; 'they; the said Alexander H. Ewing and Mary P. Ewing, retaining in themselves the proportion pertaining to them as ascertained
as aforesaid. And it is further decreed, that the said Alexander IT.
Ewing imd Mary P. Ewing permit the said parties respectively to
enter into the possession and enjoyment of their said portions of said
estate as tenants in common.
"10th. As to the account on file and reported uapon by the master, for advances-made by Martin Baum for the-Port Lawrence Company, the court find that the amount of the same, with interest to
this time, is $2063 96, which is zhargeable upon the said trilst.
estate; and the court further find that the said claim is now held by.
the defendant, Alexander H. Ewing, and should be apportioned to.
the several interests in said property, except the proportion of the
said Oliver and Williams, which has been satisfied. The pfoportions of said demand remaining to be satisfied are as follows, to wit:
John Rowan to pay .
..
.
$360 08
John H. Piatt's heirs to pay 320 38
Robert Riatt to pay 160 19
J. G. Worthington to pay
160 19
Wm. M. Worthington's heirs to pay .160 19
Alexander H. Ewing's share
.721 29
William Oliver's share
120 36
M. T. Williams's share 60 18
"And thereupon the court further decree, that the said John
Rowan, the heirs of John H. Piatt, according to their portions as-:
certained in this decree, Robert Piatt, John G. Worthington, the
he.irs of Win. M. Worthington, shall each pay the proportion of said
account affixed to their names, with dccruing interest, within 4ive
months, or in default, that execution issue'against each for his or her
proportion.
-

4

858

SUPREML COURT.
Oliver ct al. v. Piatt.

"11th. As to the claim set up by Robert C. Schenck's answer to
lot No. 1 in the original plat of Port Lawrence, which was sold to
William C. Schenck, and for which Martin Baum, trustee, in his
lifetime issued a certificate to Egloert T. Smith, who afterwards
assigned the same to the said Robert C. Schenck, who now holds
it in his own right, the bill is dismissed, without any prejudice
to his, the said Schenck's right, and he has leave to withdraw
from the files of this court his answer and other papers relating
thereto.
"12th. As to the costs in this suit, it is ordered, that the costs of
this suit be paid by the defendants, according to their several interests ascertained by this decree, within four months, into the hands
of the clerk, one docket-fee only to be taxed, and that to the complainant; and in default of payment, execution may issue as by law.
And the court allow to Master Perry the sum of $618 for his services and expenses, to be taxed in the costs- -of which there has
been paid to -him$50 by the defendant, A. H. Ewing; and $50 by
the said Robert Piatt; the balance of the allowance only to be paid
sgid Perry, and-the said Ewing and Piatt to be credited with their
said advances. And the court allow to the Master Mansfield, to be
taxed, the sum of $75, for his services inthis' case."'
From this decree an. appeal brought the case up to this court.
&anbem'ry and Ewing, for the -appellants.
Piirtle and Scott, for the appellees.
The printed briefs in the case occupied nearly one hundred pages.
It is difficult to give a condensed statement of the arguments of the
counsel, because many of them were founded upon matters of evidence, which ,it
was impossible to embrace in the foregoing statement
of the case.
Stanberry divided his argument into the following heads, under
each of which he referred to'varidus portions of the record.
1. The firmation of Port Lawrence Company.
After narrating its history, he-said:,
The Port Lawrence Company was strictly an association of companies, rather than of individuals; each of its constituent companies
continued its separate existence, and held separate estate; theunion
only extended to the property held in common; the eleven members
of the new company entered into no new arrangement, changing the
quantum of interest of the--members of its constituent compaiiies. All
that was settled, in that respect, was, that each company should contribute one half. to capital and expenses, and own one half of the
stock, leaving each company to adjust the interests of, its respective
members in its moiety of the concern,
In every sense, this was apartnership, not simply a tenantey in
common. The capital was real estate, not acquired.,for division
among the owners, lut'for speculation. It was to be laid Qut in A

JANUARY TERM, 1845.
Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

359

city, requiring further advances from the partners in the way of expenditures, and to be sold, in Darcels, for the common profit.
The Baum Company, in jtieir articles, call themselves a partnership.
See letter of instructions of Piatt Company, in which they say
their object is-to buy for sale and profit, for their common benefit.
The modern authorities are full to the point, that, in the estimation
of a court of equity, real.estate, held as partnership assets, is considered as personal estate.
Mr. Justice Story, in his Commentaries on Equity, vol. 1, page
624, in treating of partnership property, says: "A court of equity
considers the real estate, to all intents and purposes, as personal
estate, and subjects it to all the equitable rights and liens of the
partners which would apply to it if it were personal estate. And
this doctrine not only prevails as between the partners themselves
and their creditors, but (as it should seem) between the representatives of the partners also. Sbr that real- estate, held in fee for the
partnership, and as a.part of its funds, will, upon the death of one
partner, belong, in equity, not to the heirs at law, but to the personal representatives," &c.
Mrr:Stanberry then -quoted Collyer on Partnership, 76, and 7 Con.
Eng. Ch. R. 215; 5 Con. Eng. Rep. 383; 8 Ohio Rep. 364.
2. Operations and state of the Port Lawrence Company, from its
organization until September, 1821.
The history of the company was traced from year to year.
3. General allegation of fraud, and the transactions subsequent to
relinquishment.
We have, first, the general allegation of fraudulent cofhbination
between Baum, Oliver, and Williams, to cheat the Piatt Company
out of their five quarter-sections, and their moiety of the Port Lawrence Company lands. The rules of pleading in equity do not admit
this eneral allegation of fraud, but require the facts which consti'tute it to be averred, that issue may be taken on them. In answer
to such general allegation, a general denial is sufficient. White
v. Hall, 12 Ves. 323.
The time of this combination is laid in the early part of the yetr
1822. The allegation is first made in 1836, years after the death
of Baum. It therefore affects the dead as well as the living. It is,
besides, an allegation of breach of trust, as well as fraud. The sort
of proof which is required to make out such a case, is well stated by
Mr. Justice Story, in Prevbst v. Gratz, 6 Wheat. 498:
"1Fraud or breach of trust ought not lightly to be imputed to the
living, for the legal presumption is the other way; and as to the
dead, who are not here 'to answer for themselves, it would be the
height of injustice and cruelty to disturb their ashes, and violate the
sanctity of the grave, unless the evidence of fraud be clear beyond
a reasonable doubt."

860

SUPREME COURT.
Oliver et al. v. Pitt

Baum lived many years after this transaction, and during his life
if was not questioned. le is not here to answer for himself, and
those who reliresent, him, and have had the custody of his papers,
make common cause with the complainant. (See A. H. Ewing's
answer, p. 81, and his deposition, p. 361.)
"Itis very proper in such a case, where fraud and breach of trust
are imputed to the dead, and'att'mpted to be raised upon presumptions from tonduct, to look to the character of the deceased.
The whole case shows that Baum was esteemed by all parties a
man of the strictest honour, and had the fullest confidence of his associates.
4. Oliver's agency.
The bill alleges that) on the 14th August, 1817, -Baum, with the
advice and consent of the company, appointed Ofiirer agent to lay
out the town, .(with Schenck's assistance,) and to attend to the concerns of the company.; which agency Oliver accepted, and has continued such agent ever since.
Oliver answers that he was appointed agent August 14, 1817; that
his appointment was for one year; that abouit the month of May,
1818, he was elected cashier of the Miami Exporting Company, a
'bank at Cincinnati; that he enterega upon his duties of cashier about
the 1st of July, 1818, and considering these duties incompatible with
his Port Lawrence agency, before entering on his duties as cashier,
he resigned-his agency to Baum, settled his accounts, and delivered
to Baum all moneys and papers relating thereto.
On the 14th August, 1818, Oliver sold half his interest in Port
Lawrence Compariy to Steele and Lytle, they assuming alliabilities;
and inMarch, 1.819, he sold, in like manner, the other half to Embriee and -Williams.
The allegation of the continuing agency of Oliver is met by the
direct denial of the answers, which allege that, as originally constituted, it was to continue but one year, and actually terminated in
less than a year, on the 4th July; 1818.
Next," and what is much more satisfactory, we ha- the express
limitation of the agency to the perio? of one year, L'ld he salary of
$1200, in the letter of Baum to Oliver, of August 14 1817; the
testimony of Gano, that Oliver's whole time from July, 1818, for
the succeeding four years, was directed to his.duties as cashier; the
allowance of the salary down to July 4, 1818, and no longer; the
total absence of evidence of any renewal of the appointment of agent,
or the paymeit of any salary after that date, and the special power
given by Baum to Oliver, on the 1st September, 1825, to collect
money due to Baum on the Port Lawrence concern.
It well appears, therefore, that Oliver's relation to Port Lawrence
Company, as agent, ceased on the 4th July, 1818, and that his relationuas partner ceased in the month 'of March, 1819, when he sold
his remaining "interest, without recourse, to Embree and Williams.

JANUARY

TERM, 1845.

61

Oliver'et al. v. Piatt

From that time his only relation to this company was as a purchaser
of lots in Port Lawrence.
But if his relation as agent continued, there was nothing m that to
prevent his purchase of the lands of the company, in payment or col.
lection of a bondaftde debt.
5. The certificate of $213 07.
The bill alleoe§ that this was a false certificate, purporting to have
been given to 6 liver by Baum, for moneys refunded by Oliver to
purchasers of lots in Port Lawrence; that the transactions in respect
to it were secret; that instead of making personal demand of the
plaintiff and other members of the Piatt Company, Oliver fraudulently attached three of their five quarter-sections, and purchased
.them under that proceeding.
(Mr. Stanberry here referred-to, many parts of the record, to show
that the debt was just; that personal demands were made for payment from the plaintiff and other members of the Piatt Company;
and that the transaction was not a secret one.)
Three objections are taken in the bill to th6 proceedings in attachment under this certifibate of debt.
1st" That Michigan had. no jurisdiction.
2d. -That certificate was not a valid claim.
3d. That the proce'edings were fraudulent.
The court below decided against their validity, upon another
ground, viz.,. that the "estate of the parties to the attachment could
not be reached by that process.
'See thi Michigan statute as to attachments, -which embraces all
"rights, credits,.moneys and effects, goods and chattels, lands and
tenements." Laws of Michigan Territory, chap. 23, No. 189,
Cong. Law Lib. 399.
Baum was a party, and he held the final certificate showing full
payment. The debt was still- due, primarily*from him,'as the acting partner, and was raised by advances at his request, in discharge
of his personal covenants. The land attached was a fund he held
as indemnity against.those advances.' He certainly had aii estate, a
right. Subordinate to his estate or lien: on these lands, the members of Piatt Company had a right in these lands; they were entitled
-to them after the debts were discharged; their interest was simply
an equity of redemption.
It seems to us, a startling doctrine, upon a bill filed in another
jurisdiction, collaterally, to hold these attachment proceedings a
nullity. The court of Michigan had exclusive jurisdiction of the
territory in which these lands were situate. That Was 'decided in
the Circuit Court. The court in Michigan specially ordered a sale
-^ofthxese lands, (210,) and now it is claimed that the whole proceedin-'is void, not simply voidable on writ of error, but* absolutely
nul; and this, too, bj a court of another jurisdiction, in a collate-ral proceeding.
VOL.
2 H-46
1

362

SUPREME COURT.
Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

The proceedina- differs wholly from the ordinary sale of lands on
execution, in which the judgment of the court is one thing, and
the proceeding by execution quite another, and carried on by the
party.
This is a proceedingoin em, in which the court acts upon the
thing, and takes, specially, jurisdiction of it.
We think the authorities cited in the Circuit Court donot sustain
this doctrine.
Cases relied on in Circuit Court. Piatt et al. v. Law et aL.,
9 Cranch, 496.
The questions of the validity of the sale of an equity of redemption in lands, under the attachment law of Maryland, was raised;
and it appeared that question had not been decided by the Supreme
Court of Maryland. The statute of Maryland, of 1715, chap. 40,
makes "goods and chattels, credits, -&c.," liable to attachment.
The statute of 1795, chap. 56, in "lands, tenements, goods, chattels, and credits."
This court, in the above case, held that the decree of the court
of Maryland, if it did not fix the law as to the attachment, at least,
fixed the fate of the lands attached beyond reversal, p. 496.
One judge doubted if the attachment act, making the equitable
interest tangible, did also make it subject to execution. The court
was of opinion that the condemnation gave the court power to issue
final process of execution, p. 496.
Haven v. Law, 2 N. Hampshire Rep. 13, was a case of pledge
of personalty; and it was held that the interest of the owner could
not be seized in attachment. The court say such an interest is
made liable in some of the states by statute.
It appears from the case of Kitteridge v. Bellows, 7 N. Hamp.
Rep. 899, that an equity of redemption in lands is subject to attachment, even in that state.
Badlam v. Tucker, 1 Pick. Rep. 399. The court say it is only
by statute that equities or rights to redeem are subject to attachment
by ordinary process, and no 'statute, in Massachusetts, has authorized the attachment of such interest in personal property.
See revised statutes of Massachusetts of 1836, chap. 90, sect. 23
and, 24: The attachment in that state is ordinary mesne process,
and execution upon it by statute provision only goes against such
interests as are subject to execution at law.
Jackson ex dem. Ireland v. Hull, 20 John's Rep. 81, cited by
Circuit Court to show that an equity of redemption cannot be
attached.
It -was a sale under judgment and execution of the equity of
redemption of mortgagor. Held that the equity of redemption did
pass by the sale; and it appearing the sale did not satisfy the judg-ment, (which was on the mortgage debt,) it was held that the pur-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

363

Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

chaser took, subject to the remainder due on the'judgment. See
Waters et al. v.Stewart, 1 Caines's Cases in Error, 67, to same
point.
6. The mortgage.
On the 27th August, 1823, Baum, for the consideration of
$1835 47, conveys to Oliver, in fee, tracts 3, 4, 86 and 87, except
sixty acres off upper end of 86, sold to Tromley and Prentiss.
Baum covenants that he is the true owner, and bath full- power to
sell, and with general warranty. The condition is, that upon payment Qf $1835 47, "the sum due Oliver from Baum. and his associates, in the purchase of said property," on or before the 1st
January, 1824, with interest from September 1, 1823, the mortgage
to be void.
The bill alleges thaE this mortgage was a fraudulent, secret contrivance to cheat the owners out of their property.
That the pretence that there was $1835 47 due to Oliver was
false.

That Baum had no.power to sell, mortgage, or in any manner to
convey any lands, except I and 2.
(Mr. Stanberrj here examined the record and contended that
there was nothing fraudulent or secret about it; that the debt was
justly due, and that Baum had full power to- sell or mortgage.
With regard to Baum's powers, he said:)
It is, then, not disputed that there was no written appointment,
power of attorney, or declaration of the powers or, trust vested in
Baum. He was made the agent or trustee for the six" tracts-all
the lands 6f Port Lawrence Company. At the tiimae of his appointment, the certificates of tifle'stood in the names of theagents *ho
made the purchase at Wooster. It is admitted, by the amended
bill, that it was then agreed that all the certificates should-be assigned to him; but it is alleged in the same bill that the assignments
were made just prior to the relinquishment in 1821. The answers.
are express, that all the tracts were assigned in 1817; and the sub'
sequent and more formal assignments were made necessary on the
relinquishment.
The nature of the business required that the title should be vested
in Baum1st. To prevent difficulties from deaths in a company of eleven
members, thereby embarrassing the transfer of title to a multitude
of purchasers.
2d. Baum sold with his personal covenants to make titlej which
necessarily implied that the title was in him.
He had power to sell all the lands, on speculation, or -for the
debts of the company.
The bill alleges that no power of sale or mortgage was given as
toany other lands than 1 and 2."

364

SUPREME COURT.
Oliver et al. v. Piatt

The answers are responsive, and expresslk allege the contrary;
and there is nothing contradictory in the proof.'
We have so far considered Baum's -p6wers"as originally granted;
but at-the date of the moxtgage they stand on different ground.,
A power originally -conferred, even by writing, may be enlarged
subsequently, and this enlargement be proved by parol. Story Eq.
97.
It is admitted that. the title to the unrelinquished lands was formally transferred to Baum in September, 1821.
The bill.alleges that this transfer was for the sole purpose of the
relinquishment and appropriation to the unfrelinquished lands.
This allegation" is denied by the auswers, and, no proof to contradict.
The complainant introduces Baum's letters to Brown'of 822 and
1523, which state that all the landswere transferred to -him for convenience" of sale. and conveyance.Clothing a person with apparent ownership and right to sell, -implies that the apparent is the real authority. Story on Agency,
108.
Now had Baum power to mortgage for the debts of the com-

pany?-

1st. OnIhill and answer.that power must be taken to have been
expressly given in the beginning, and consequently existed in August, 1823, the date of the mortgage.
t
2d. But it is necessarily implied, at that time, the title was in
him, without limitation. He had incurred liabilities for the company, and there was no other fund provided for the debts but these
lands. He might even*sell theiii-for a power to .aise money out
'of an estate authorizes a sale. 1 A k. 421.
3d. It is further implied by acquiescence. Story on Agency, 60.
IA January, 1823, Baum-'sells thirty acres to Prentiss and thirty
acres to Tromley, of which the company are notified by the circular
of 1824, and to which no, objection is made. ,
So, too, the acquiescence in this mortgage, notified to the company by the same circular.
4th. But the powers of Baum are greatly enlarged when we regard his true characf/r-not an agent, but the managing.partner of
a partnership in real estate-Zthe ' prwpositus negotiis societatis"
holding all the title-managing all the business-incurring,.by his
personal covenants, the primary liabilities.
5th. Besides this power of disposal over the assets i as managing
partner, he stands in. another relation to these lands after his advances.
At the time of the mortgage, his debt against the partnership, for
advances and liabilities, aniounted to $4755 25. Wyllis on Trustees, 164; Lambert Iv. Bainton, 1 Cha. Ca. 199; Dove v. Langston, Plowd. 186, (at top); Chalmer v. Bradley, 1 Jac. & Walk. 51.

JANUARY TERM, 1845.
Oliver et al. v. Piatt

365

These cases are to the' point, that a trustee, to sell, becomes in
effect the owner, by advancing to the value.
There may be a question, whether this doctrine applies, in its full
force, to realty as well as personalty. Lambert v. Bainton was
real estate, and the lord keeper there held the doctrine.
In Chalmer v. Bradley, which wag also a case of real estate, the
Master of the Rolls says he is aware of a distinction'between personal and real estate; nevertheless, he seems disposed to act upon
the analogy.
We maintain that the doctrine applies, in all its force, to the case
at bar, for the shares-in this real, estate partnership, carefully separated as they were from the tile, and. cognisable only in equity, are
uniformly treated in this court as personalty.
Baum, then, might have held this land as his own. He might
have sold it; instead of which he mortgages it, and with great regard for the interests of his delinquent associates.
Several objections are taken to the proceedings by which the
mortgage was foreclosed: First, that they were carried on secretly.
The bi alleges that the plaintiff had no knowledge of the mortgage
or the proceedings until after Oliver had obtanec, the patents,
(which was in December, 1830,) except only through Baum's circular of January, 1824.
Oliver answers, that.when the debt secured by the mortgage became due; he applied to the different members of the company, and
esecially to the plaintiff, for paymenf, but, in vain. That during
the pendency of proceedings under the mortgage, the members of
the company were cognisant thereof; that he advised the plaintiff
of the proceedings, and urged him topay the 'debt, or his proportion of it, to prevent the necessity of,a sale, but the plaintiff paid no attention to the request.
There is not a particle of proof of the alleged secrecy, nor do
these proceedings show any anxious haste'to acquire this property,
but quite the contrary.
Oliver submits -to a -postponement of payment of four months.
He delays the commencement of legal- proceedings for upwards of
two years, and delays a sale for five years; in the mean time endeavouring in vain to get his money from his debtors.
The next objection to these proceedings, and the one on which
most reliance was placed by the Circuit Court, is the want of parties. It is said the different memters of the Port Lawrence 'Company, or those representing their interests, ohght.to have been made
parties. We maintain this objection would not have 'been fatal if
made by demurrer, or at the hearing in the court in Michigan. 'The
,title was in Baum alone. He fully represented all-the members of
the. iompany. Even if he stood in the mere relafion of a trustee, it
is doubtful-if this objection would have prevailed. Campbell v.
2 H2

SUPREME COURT.
v. Piatt
Oliver et a'l.

Watson, 8 Ohio Rep. 498; 11 Yes. 4431 3 P, Wins. 92; Storyls
Eq. P1. 145.
But his true standing was that of acting partner, with the title to
all the assets. The other members of: the company .were dormant
partners, and by the rufles of chancery practice need not to have
been mad6 parties'defendant. Lloyd v. Archbowle, 2 Taunt. 324;
Ex parte Norfolk, 19 Ves.. 455.
But if Oliver acquired no title to the three quarter-sectins by the
attachinent, nor to the pther tracts by the chancery proceedings
under the mortgage, yet he did: acquire the legal title to -all these
lands, 'by the subsequent assignment of the certificates to him by
Baium, ,and the granting of the patents.
7. Assignment of final certificates by Baum to Oliver.
In December, 1828, Baum assigned to Oliver the final certificates
for tracts 3 and 4, and the three quarter-sections, purchased under
-the attachment; and in December, 1829, the final certificates for
tracts 86 and 87; and in August, 1830, the. final certificate for
another of the quarter-sections. Under which assignments, Oliver
obtained patents inDe~ember, 1830, for all but'tracts 86 and 87.
(Mr.Stanbrry here examined the charge that this assignment was
fraudulent.)
In the opinion of the court below, it seems to be intimated that
Baum's whole power of sale and transfer was exhausted by the
mortgage. Howeier that may be in the execution of strict specified
powers, itis supposed, the doctrine does not apply to the case'at
bar. Here the title was in Baum, without any express limitation or
.declarati6oi of trus.. It was not a power carried out.from the estate,
but the whole estate was vested. Dougl. 292, 293, Perkins v.
Walker, 1' Vem. 97; that a mortgage is not an exhaustion of a
power of sale.
Besides, the transfer was not the exercise of any new power, but
the confirmation of the first act; the ratification of Oliver's title
under the mortgage, after his pufchase at-a judicial sale. Baum
might have made an absolute sale to Oliver in the first place, instead
of which he mortgages the land, obtains further lime, and puts
Oliver to the necessity of a purchase under judicial proceedings, at
a public sale, open to competition; He then makes- the transfer of
the certificates; a very proper act, and such an one as a court of
equity Would have compelled him to. do; such an act, therefore, as
in conscience he was bound to perform.
Here, as well as in every part of this case, in which a question
is raised as to Baum's powers, his true situation must not be forgotten. He was not nierely an agent or trustee, but a joint owner,
and the acting' partner; invested with the title to all the- assets,
having made advances. and incurred personal liabilities, to. taeir
full value.
Under these proceedings and transfers, Oliver acquired the legal

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

367

Oliver et a]. v. Piatt.
title to the four quarter-sections, and the lands included in the mortgage, by patents issued to him in December, 1830. The plaintiff
comes to be relieved, and to impeach the transactions under which
that title was obtained. From first to last he has been under no
disability. He pretends to have been ignorant of these transactions,
but his full and current knowledge of them is established by the
answers. In fact he admits notice upon the emanation of the
patents.
Now if there was goqd faith in these transactions, it is out of the
question to ask this court to disturb a legal title upon any of the
grounds of irregularity or want of power, which are alleged. This
is especially so when the laches of the, plaintiff is taken into the
account.
The case of Bergen v. Bennett, 1 Caines, 1, is very much in
point here. That was the case of a purchase by a trustee; a
mortgagee with power to sell; sixteen years afterwards the mortgagor
brought his bill to edeem. Kent, Justice, whilst he acknowledges
the incapacity of the trustee to purchase, holds the title good, simply by the acquiescence. He states the distinction between the
case of a bill brought against the trustee to set aside his legal title,
and a bill brought by him to complete his purchase, and that equity
would not interfere, as of course in the former case. He says,
"the cestui que trust must come in a reasonable time to set aside the
sale, or he will not be heard ; and that what shall be termed a reasonable time, is not susceptible of a definite rule, but must in a degree depend upon the circumstances of the particular case, and be
guided by the, sound discretion of the court. In this case the cestui
que trust comes after sixteen years, finding it a gaining bargain, and
being all that time under no disability." The learned judge then
goes on to enumerate several cases of much shorter acquiescence,
which were held barred.
Gregory v. Gregory, 1 Coop. Chan. Ca. 201, was a purchase by
a trustee from cestui que trust,'atan undervalue. The Master of the
Rolls said he would have set it aside if the application had been
made in a reasonable time, but a delay of-eighteen years was too
great.
Chalmer v. Bradley, 1 Jac. & Walk. 51, is to the same -point,
as to ihe effect of acquiescence in a breach of trust.
But this being a partnership, requiring regular contributions to
meet liabilities, refusal or neglect to contribute woris a forfeiture,
and implies acquiescence, under circumstances less strong than in
ordinary cases.
Prendergast v. Tuston, Younge and Collyer, Ch. Rep. 98, decided
in the English chancery in 1841, was the case of a mining partnership, in which a delay of nine years to.meet contrbutions was held
fatal to the plaintiff.
The bill alleges that the plaintiff was always willing to contribute

308

SUPREME COURT.
Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

'his proportion,.but was never called upon. The answers den this
allegation, and set out repeated and earnest requests, -and to
disregard of thiem.
How then stands the case of the plaintiff? He had' engaged in a
partnership adventure in rent estate; debts were contracted by the
acting partner, who was primarily'iable upon his personal covenants.
That acting partner-is also deeply harassed with his own individual
liabilities. The plaintiff is undei no disability, is a man of property,
'is fully advised of the condition of affairs, and deliberately, fr a series
:of'years, abandons the property and the acting partner. In process
.of time, ifter the property has changed hands and greatly appreciated
'by the -labour -of others, he comes into a court of equity for relief.
Is it not clear that but for this unexpected increase in value, we
should never have heaid of this case ?
8. Exchange with the Michigan University.
If the court should be against the appellants on all the foregoing
points, and be of opinion.that Oliver held traQts 3, 4, .86 and 87 for
the Port Lawrence Company; and the quarter-sections in trust for
the Piatt Company, we claijn next,.that the'decree was erroneous in
gvIng'to these cestuis tracts 1 and 2, instead'of making the value of
the lands.exchangd a charge on 1'and 2.
These tracts, several yeis ftet the relinquishment, had -been
granted by C'ongress to the University Qf Michigan, and were acquired from the trustees by.Oliver,,in exchange for tracts 3, (except
ten acres n north-east corner5-) 4, and the three quarter-sections purchased.under the attachment: The journal of the trustees'is ecibited to show the negotiation
'This part of the. decree is 'attemlited to be sustained on two
grounds - that Oliver made the'exchange as agent for the Port Lawrence Company, in conformity 'with an. understanding. formed at the
time of the reinquishment to re-purchase these .tracts ; or if not,
'thai as thay were acquired :with the lands of the Port Lawrence and
Piatt
Compaies, a trust results for their use.
. Fi rt,;a
to the alleged intentidnto re-purchase, and the exchange
by, Oliver in cbnformnity-to it.
. The original'and amended bills both allege that at the time of the
relinquishment of 1 and 2, it was understooa and agreed by the parties, 'that when at any time 'they should' be:offered for sale by the
Unitec'States, they, should be re-purchased for the benefit' of all
concerned.
The answer of' Oliver. expressly denies' spch understanding or intentid , 6nd states that he'(Olive'r) often conversed with members of
the company on thd subject of the relinquishment.
The :answer. of. Williais is, that he was a meinbr of -the Port
Lawrence Commy"at the time of the 'relinquishment, intimately
acquainted with all itg concerns and the views of its members, and
never heard of such intention,.then or afterwards.

JANUARY-TERM, 1845.

869

Oliver et aL v. Piatt.

(Mr. 'Stanberr, here-examined the evidence touching this point.)
It is therefore quite clear, that there was no agreement on the pari
of the" company t9 re-purchase tracts 1 and 2; that the.subseqient
acts and declaraion of Baum were upon his own motion, and the
mbtive was to secure himself first, and his associates ultinately, from.
loss. If he had then succeeded in the re-acquisition, his old associates might have had the election to come-in or not, for they gave
him no authority to bind them to new speculations.
However it might have been itthe. time 6f the memorial, yet in,
1828, when the negofiption, for the- exchange was begun with the
Luiversity, the idea of re-purchase for the old Port Lawrence Company is bsurd, for at that date a majority of its members were dead
or. gone to distant parts, and the remainder hd for seven years
abandoned the cancemi.
There was then no'agreement to.bind the 'c6nsciences of Oliver
or Baum;and notbing'in their relatioihs of trustee or agent, if those
relations continued, to disable them from acquiring these lands upon
their own account..
When 1 and 2 "were relinquished, the subject-matter of the trust
and agency inregad to those tracts was ended. There was no preemption right in the company-no tenant right of renewal-no advantage obtained by reason: of the trust.
11 If, from, being in possession; trustees have an opportunity of
renewing the, leasehold, such renewal can only be for their destuis que
trust; but where the old lease and all the trusts respecting it are determined, and there is no tenant right of reiewal, the former trultee
is quoad hoc trustee no longer.' The fiduciary relation ceases for
want of an olject, and there is no ground for excluding the quondam
trustee from being a purchaser." Hov. on Frauds, 41, 482.
So, during the continuance of a lease, the trustee may purchase
the reversion in fee, though by this means hie debars the cestui que
trust of a chance of renewa. Ibid. "482.
Next, as to the claim that a trust results in 1 and 2 for the
owners of the tracts which Oliver gave for'them in the exchange.
The first objection to this claim is founded on its multifariousness.
Here is trust property belonging exclusively to the Piatt Company,
and other trust property-belonging exclusively to the Port Lawrence
Company, all of which has been applied by Oliver in the purchase
of tracts 1 and 2, and -which trist property was-afterwards reclaimed
by Oliver. This bill seekes relief for these independent cestuis que
trust by demanding f6r each company its share in 1 an'd-2, and also
its original fund afterwards regained by Oliver.
This makes such a case of multifariousness as would compel the
court sua sponte, at the hearing, to refuse' relief. 1 Story's Eq. P1.
224, note 2 ; 10 Ohiq Rep. 459; Campbell v..McKay, 1 Mylne &
Craig, Ch. Rep. 603.
Theri are other insuperable objections to this .resulting trust in 1
VOL. I.-47

370

SUPREME COURT.
Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

and 2. It wa& formerly doubted whether trust moneys could be
followed -into land,.so as to operate even as a Jien, in exclusion of
other creditors. It isrnow settled that the lands may be charged
-with the trust fund, and that is ordinarily the soft of relief given to
the cestui. Hov. on Frauds, 468,471; Wallace v. Duffield, 2 Serg.
& Rawle, 521.
•In some cases a trust in the land so purchased results to the cestui,
but the case at bar is not of that class, because,
1st. Where in the misappropriation of a trust fund it has been confused with any other fund, the uniform rule is, simply to make the
trust fund a charge on the new acquisition. Crop v. Norton, 2 AtI.
75. The only limitation upon the doctrine as established by LordHardwicke in Crop v. Norton, that "i.
trust never results, except
-where all the money'is paid by one person, is, that where the joint
advance is in conformity with an.agreement of purchase a trust will
result. -Wray v. Steele,'!2es.
& Bea. 388; Bottsford v. Burr,
2 Johns . Ch. Rep. 410.
2d. Another objection to a resulting trust in tracts 1 and 2 is, that
they were acquired in part by the individual funds of Oliver.
Under the mortgage proceedings and the subsequent.assignment
of'the certificates, Oliver acquired, at the least, the interest of Baum
in tracts 3 and 4, which tracts formed a part of the consideration for
tracts 1 and 2.
Where land ispurchased partly with trust and partly with individual funds, the trust fund so applied, is simply a charge on the land,
and affects the title no further. ' Willis on-Trustees, 64; 1 Hov. on
Frauds, 471, 472; Lewis v. Maddocks,. 8 Ves. jun. 150; S. C.
17 Ves. jun. 47.
3d. •Oliver was not a strict! trustee. He did not stand towards his
cestuis in any one of the comra6n fiduciary relations. He believed
himself to be the sole owner of the fund with which he purchased
1 and 2.
Where 'land is-purchased with a trust fund, but the party is not
ina strict fiduciary relation, and acts under a belief of his fight to
the fund, the rule in equity is, to make the trust fund or its value a
charge simply. Savige v. Carroll, 1 Ball & Beatty, 265 ; Perry v.
Philips, 4 Ves. jun. 108; Cox v. Paxton, 17YVes. jun. 329.
4th. Oliver has re-acquired the very lands, the identical trust fund
which he is said to have misappropriated in the exchange for 1 and
2. .There is therefore no -necessity for following the original fund
into the new acquisition, either in the way of charge or resulting
trust, for the original fund is here undiminished, aid by giving it
them the cestuis are in statu quo.
5th. Ahother Qbjection to giving the cestizis 1 and 2, is the difficulty
of apportioning. their respective interests in the new acquisition.
We know that the parties to the exchange considered 1 and 2 as
equa! in value to 3, 4, and the three quarter-sections, but what relative

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

371

Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

value they affixed to 3, 4, and the6t1hree quarter-sections, we Ado not
know. Undoubtedly they had their own views of this relative value,
and these' views ma have been very dissimilar. How can the court
fix that relative value, and say whatproportibn in the new acquisition represents the distinct funds vested in it? In the ordinary case
of a sale of lands, where the, agreement settles all terms but the price,
a court of chancery has never yet attempted to fix a price for the
partieq by the opinion of third persons. Even where the contract.
provides that the price shall be fixed by arbitrati6n, a court of chancery will not compel the delinquent party to choose his arbitrator or
even appoint arbitrators for them.
6th. The vast'increase in the value of I and 2 since the-purchase by
Oliver, an increase brought about; in a great measure, by the combined efforts of Oliver and Williams, forbids .a resultiftg trust.
This-property, at the time 'of its purchase, was worth only about
$5000. At !he time of the filing of the bill it had advanced one
hundred fold in vale, mainly by the constant exertions of the appellants.
But if a trust did result, we claim that the decree is very far from
establishing the true proportions of the parties in 1 and 2. .
As to tracts 3, 4, 86 and 87, notwithstanding the proceedings in
chancery, and the assignments of :the certificates to .be holden invalid, Oliver yet had title.to them; his mortgage remained; by that he
had th6 equitable estate.. He subsequently obtained the legal title,
in trust for all pejsons interested in the property. 1e sells the property for cash, and the eestuis que trust may affirm or disaffirm the
sale. If they affirm it, how will equity compel hifn to apply the purchase money?
.1st. To the expenses of the sale. 2d. To satisfir the mortgage in
full. 3d. Th residue to the mortgagors.
But if,
instead of makihg this application, he lay out the money in
other land, and if the court find they can pursue the money into the
land, not merely as a charge upon it, but to raise a resulting trust in
the land itself, then the laniwill be applied just as the money which
bought it -would have been applied, and in the same proportions.
If the mortgaged premises were exchanged for land, without the
intermediate sale and re-investment, the same consequences would
follow.
If it lie found that Oliver should share, in equal proportion with
the other persons interested, the profits of the bargain he has made,
then we take the value of the property sold as th basis of our estimate, and it gives this result:
.Lots 3, 4, 86, and 87, estimated by Hunt & Conant,
$2357 50
Mortgage, (deducting all corrections claimed,) with interest to 1830,

-.

Interest of P. L. Company,.

-

-

-

-

-

-

2218. 00'

$139 50

372

SUPREME COURT.
Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

If.the court should be ofopinion that equity ought not to give Oliver,
the mortgagee, any share in the profits of his own bargnam, nor any
compensatioi for time, trouble, and expenses in making it, then the
proportions would be settled thus:
$4030 00
Value of 1 and 2 in 1830, (Hunt & Conant,).
Paid by Piatt Company, or Oliver, as the court shallfind
in another branch of the case, by the three quarter-sec1120 00
tions, worth at same time, (Hunt & Cona3it,)
-

3010 00
Oliver's interest in the mortgiged premises,
Interest-of Port Lawrence C6mpany,

-

.-

2218 00
-

-$792

00

Oliver's expenses, services, &c., if allowed, would, of course, be
deducted rateably from the resjctive interests.
9. We claim, if a trust is established in 1 and 2, that it was erroneous to allow the share conveyed by Burnett to Mary P. Ewing to
be set up against Oliver, being -1 of Baum Company's shares..
Baum conveyed the lands included in the mortgage to Oliver,
with covenants of warranty.
Assets descended, upon the death of Baum, to his heirs. With
part of the assets so descended, i. e. the amount due to Baum from
the members of the Port Lawrence Company, for advances, Mary P.
Ewing, one of his children and heirs, requires from Burnett title to
an interest in the lands covered.by the warranty of her father.: The
decree defeats the title to, these lands, and allows the heir to recover
upon the footing pf the adverse interest so acquired.
We maintain she is estopped. Co. Lit. 325.
10. We claim, lastly, that the decree is erroneous as against Williams, who well maintains the ground Qf a bonafide purchaseri vithout notice.
The bill alleges notice, by W,illiams, of all the fraudulent combinations and transactions imputed to Baum and Oliver.
.These allegations are met with full and unequivocal denials in the
answer, which sets forth all the particulars required for the, defence
of a purchaser without notice..
. There is not.a particle of prbof to impeach This taswer, or to show
that Williams had any knowledge of the fraudulent acts attempted to
be made out against Oliver and Baum. He-purcbased an interest
in the Port Lawrence Company'in March, 1819. He was the agent
to make thfe relinquishment of 1 and 2 in September, 1821, and does
not appear again in the case until May, 1831, when he. makes his
first purchase from Oliver. He finds Oliver invested with the legal
title to 1 an-d 2, which had been relinquished ten years before.
It is said Williams was one 6f the. cestuis whose property was
wrongfully conveyed by their trustee, Baum; that he must be pre-

JANUARY TERM, 184 .

_W3

Oliver-et al. e. Piatt.

sumed to have kn wledge that Baum had no authority to sell or.
mortgage the property.
In the first place, we do not see, if this be ,so, how it affect9 his
title to-tracts I and 2.. The trust,. as to them, ceased at the relinquishment. Ten yeais. after, he.finds Oliver invested with the legal
title; and then purchases from-him..
Will it be said that the recitals in the patent.t Oliver for tracts
1 *and2 affect him with notice?
The patent issuid, to Oliver. on the 4th March, 1831, -and recites, that, under the prdvisions of the act of Congress of January'
13, 1830,. "to authorize thd exchange of- certain lots of land be-.
tween the Univer~ty'and Martin Baum and others,'. the University
had transferred 1 and 2 to Olivr, as the assignee of Baum.
IIn point of'fact, Oliver was not the assipee of Baum, of tracts 1
and 2. No one pretends that this recital is nbt a inistalre ; nor can
it be 'said -the'recitals in the act -of Congress notified Williams that
the phrase "Martin Baum and others" nieant Martin Bium and the
other members of the old Port Lawience Company. The most con-elusive argument to show it impliesno such notice,'is found in the
testimony of Judge Burnett; who, like Williamfs, was-a.*member of
that company,. aid, being in the Senate of the UnitedStates, voted,
for the Jaw, and had no idea *that "Martin Baum and others" incuded the company.
As to the other trcts, Oliver held tlie'patents without any recitals.
Williams knew a part. of them had once belonged to the Port Law .
rence Company, but he knew nothing t6 impeach: Oliver's title.
Pirtle,-for appellees, denied that this was a case of partnership,
and commented on- the authorities refefredo to by Mr. Stanberr.,
which, he contended, did not justify the position. He -then traced
'the history of the transaction, beginning-with 'the purchase 'at the
public sale, af.desaid, that courts 'wil not enforce agreements in
graud of the law, or against public polipy, is true. That an agreement
-iiot to.bid at a sheriff's sale or at an auction ofan executor wouldbe against- public-policy, ha been decided. The doctrine on this
sbject was thor ughly examined' in the case of Jones v. Caswell,
3 Johns. Ca. 29; 1 McLeans'Rep. 300, 302; 2 McLean's Rep.
276, et seq.; 1 Stor's Eq. 290. But this doctrine has io'application to this case. To apply it now, even if there were fraud, would
be very much like a plea to an anction of t overthat the plaintiffhad
obtained-the property in question of a stranger by deceitful practices,
which would be absurd. This suit .is not to enforce a contract.
The contract had been completed years before.the matters charged
agairist the- defendants.
There is nothing corrupt in su~h an,agreement as that made hy
the parties in the instance stated in the plea. Nothing is more comrmon than for several persons to join in a.purchase of lands or other
21

874

SUPREME COURT.
Oliver et al v. Piatt.

valuable property at auction sales. There was no more harm in
forming the Port Lawrience Company than there was in forming the
Baum. and Piatt Conipanies. There was no agreement that one,
for a certain price, should not -bid against the other, but that certain
tracts, dsired by both, should be purchased for both.
This was a great sale, advertised over the union, at which great
numbers of persons were collected from different quarters. It wag
not like a neighbourhood sale of chattels by an officer, and there
was no danger of injury to The government or Of the misleading of
arfy man's confidence. The United States had fixed a minimum
price on these lands. There-was strong competition; and a price so
large was given -for the lands, hat the Port Lawrence Company
were compelled to relinquish the site of the town to the government.
So the effect, at any rate, was not to cheat the country.
It would be a flagrant encouragement of fraud to say, that because
Oliver and Piatt had formed such a partnership for their respective
companies as that in 1817, Oliver and Williams (who bought of
Oliver and thus came into the Port Lawrence Company) might in
1836 cheat all the others of the company out of their shares in the
Port Lawrence lands.
It is etntended that Baum did remain a trustee and agent for the
Port Lawrence Company in respect to Nos. 1 and 2, after the surrender to the United States, as well as in respect to the other property
of that company, and of the lands owned separately by the Baum
Company and by the Piatt 'Company. That he was agent and
truskee *as to all the other lands, except 1 and 2, is ferfectly apparent; and that Oliver acted for him, that he acted bnly through Oliver for all the time, is just as apparent upon this record. Baum
never.was on these lands-neer'was in that region of the countryall was intrusted to .Oliver. Some temporary business was done by
another Mr. Oliver, but under the instruction and assistance of this
appellant. The duty of'surrendering the lots was done byWilliams,
but this was a single act.
Oliver" could not stand on any better ground than Baum, whether
he knew what Baum's powers were or not; or whether he acted as
the sub-agent of Baum, or merely as his friend lind for his accommodation, or not. If he acted as a volunteer, be could claim nothing of -Baum, or the company; but his claim must be upon the
ground that his acts'were at the instance of one or the other. He
cannot, theil, -sep a rate himself Pr6m the-character of agent. He was
acting for the company, not for Baum alone. He stood, then, as
the company's.fidueiary; and was bound to know how Baum stood
to the company. Baum continued to be.the agent and trustee for"
the other lands. -This -is undeniable. It Is only said his agency may
have termirlated sokne Iiine afterwards., He was just as much agentand trustee fdr the lots '! and 2 after the relinquishment as before.
The intention to. reclaim them was manifested by his petitions to

JANUARY TERM, 1S45.

-8_75

Oliver et al. v. Piatt

Congress. These petitions are dated 30th -January, 1822; the
lands were relinquished 27th September, 1821. In his letter to Mr.
Brown he says, "1though the petition is signed by myself only, still
others have an interest in it, to wit: Jacob Burnet, William Steele,
M. T. Williams, J. R. Miller, and John Rowan, of Kentucky; but
for the sake of convenience, all the lands by the company were
transferred to me ;" and after having referied to the argument in the
petition he says, it will show "1the just claim which, f think, I and
my associates have on the government for redress." What was that
redress? Why, that Congress should- allow them to purchase the
lots 1 and 2, so that they might build up the town laid off there, and
in which they had sold lots.
By his associates, he meant to include the Port Lawrence
Company; and although he does not name them all in this letter, he names J. H. Piatt and M. Worthington in' the postscript;
showing that he was not acting for himself and the persons first
named only.
.
In his letter to Mr. Brown, of the 6th of February, 1823, he speak§
of the case on which he is petitioning, as " a ruinous one to me and
my associates, and las resulted so from the acts of Congress more
than other causes ;" and he says, " all the tracts stood in my name,
in order to render it 'more convenient to sell and convey."
The possession of these lots, Nos. 1 and 2, on which the town
was laid out, was not by any means given up when the surrender
was made of the title to the United States, but it was held by Baum
until the patent issued to Oliver, as far as it appears in this record.
(Mr. Pirtle referred to a great many parts of the record to establish
this.)
The attachment in Michigan could give Oliver no title for several
reasons. 1. No attachment would lie, because a mere equity, uncertain in its character, subject, accbrding to the statements of Oliver, to balances due to Baum, could not be attached, and so the
court had not jurisdiction. The old statutes of Pennsylvania are
very general on the subject of foreign attachment; yet it has been
held, that ai attachment would not lie against executors, 2 Dallas, 73 ;
nor against money collected by a sheriff, 1 Dallas, 355. CA claim
resting in damages and depending on a possibility only, is not attachable by foreign attachment." "For the same reason, foreign attachment lies not of a claim in covenant, because it sounds merely in damages."
Serg.ofontheAttaclunent,
in the hands
76.foreign
"A legacy
executor by
cannotbecause
be atached
attachment,
it is
uncertain whether, afer debts paid, the executor may have assets
to discharge it." Serg. on Attachment, 86. The statute of 1794, of
Massachusetts, provides, that any creditor entitd to an 'ition against
his debtor, , having
a any goods,offcts, or credits so intrusted or deposited in thc hands of others," &c., may cause not only the goods
and estate of the debtor "to be attached in his own hands or pos-

SUPREME COURT.
Oliver et al. v. Piatt

sessionf &c.' but,-also 9 his gdods, effects, and credits so intrusted
and deposited." In th -i case of Picquet v. Swan et'al., 4.Mason's
-Rep'. 446' Mr. Justice Story says, 1It is an extraordinary process,
and from- its nature can afford but a very imperfect administration
of rights and remedies as to the litigant parties. Nor, as far as my
limhited experieiee has gone, has it enabled me to say, that in complicated transactions, where various and conflicting rights have been
brought forward for controversy, the result has in a general view
bebn such as entitled it to peculiar public favour on account of its
advancement of public justice," &c. In 7 Mass. "Rep. 274, the
Supreme Court, in exposition of this statute, remarks, that " pecuniary
legacies in the hands of an executbr. are not goods or effects; and
it is equally clear, that in no proper sense can they be denominated
credits.'? (See also-1 Pick. Rep. 399.) Theseopinions go to show
how this statute of Michig?i should be construed.
2. But if the court had jurisdiction, this was an improper procedure against the Piatt Coinpany. The debt, if any, was against the
Port Lawrence Company, and it was not in the power of Baum or
of Oliver to fix it on the Piatt Company alone.. There was no debt
of the Piatt Company.
3. This attachment was evidently sued out-for the purpose of.
setting hold of the lands; and not merely for he purpose of makof much
These lands
mng the money pretended to bethedue.attachment,
is -pretended.
than were
grater value at the time of
'Te three setions attached' were valued at the time, by the comz-

presum each
The near
purpose, toand$1200.
for the 07:"
missioners appointed
lived
Oliver
due, was
tendec} o be was
dompetent
of very
at any rate
of wealth,Piatt
a man$2913

other; Piatt
•meaes, and was weekly in the city where Oliver lived. It was
much more convenient to Oliver, if he knew this 'demand to me
tis by eoercion, or otherwi4 in his own
money
just, to have made
neighbourhood, than to proceed in a wilderess'and reote region
--hundreds of miles off:
It is a principle of universal justice, that a party shall not be
affected by the judgment of a court, who has not been party-to the
suit in which it rs.made. Who was the party that as to be warned
to pay the money due on te mortgage, by the decree nisi? not
but the parBaum: for Oliver would not have recewed it of himan
eb thePoie Lawrence Company. Who a s exth
ping
ties o
-whose proper was to be
pected to defend theu it? not Baum;
sold? the property of the Port Lawrence Company; and to be sold
to their -agent upon their agent's suit! It woul4 be strange indeed,
if they were not -necessary parties in such judicial performances as
this. -The doctrine of necessary parties is stated in so many books,
it would'fatigue the court to cite them. See Story on Eq. P1. 187;
4 'eters, 202.
Had a third person, ignorant of the rights of' the company, pur-"

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

377

Oliver et a]. _v. Piatt.

chased the property under this decree, he might have held, j~ist as
he might have held under a-purchase from Bauni without notice.
But Oliver's -plrchase was nothing. The assignment from Baum
afterwards was nothing.
This' purchase was on the, Ist .df September, 1828,,and a few
weeks before, on the 12th of August, a negotiation was commenced
with the Michigan University by Oliver, for the exchange of lots 1
and 2 for other lands in the neighbourhood.
Oliver says he made the proposition for himself; but the records
of the university show that-he made it in behalf of "Baum and
others."' Baum had been struggling with the government for these
lots 1 and 2, for several years, and the act of Congress passed for
the benefit of Baum and others, and not for the benefit of Oliver.
The government -had been made to understand that Baum and his
associates had 6uffered great loss in the purchase of the lots 1 and'
2, which they had been compelled to relinquish aftbr having laid
out a towri, and sold lots, &c. The deed from- the university to
Oliver purports to be made to carry into effect the act of Congress; and the patent that issued to Oliver purports to be issued "to carry
into effect the intent of the aforesaid act, of the 13th January, 1830."
The application-of Oliver to the university for the exchane -n behalf of Martin Baum and. others, was calculated to de ude the
members of the Port Lawreice Company; and the act of Congress,
-purpoffing to be for their benefit, and to carry out, in substance,
what Baum had been asking of the government for eight years, was
directly calculated to quiet their anxiety, and mislead them.
(Mr. Pirtle here referred to many parts of the evidehce to show
that Oliver had created an impression that he was acting for Baum
and others.)
Suppose there was no combination between these parties, or any
of them, and that the other membdrs of the company were not necessary parties to the suit, yet Oliver, according to his statement,
was, a mere volunteer; he had made the payments to*purchasers,
by-which. his demand was created, because they were his friends
andold associates, and he had obtained the mortgage from Baum,
with a knowledge that Baum held the title for a special object only;
and how can he be allowed to hold the property under such circumstances. The assignments by Baum to him are all of apiece
with the sale under the decree. What court ever supported a transfer by an agenit and trustee, of all the subject of the agency and
trusteeship, to. his friend, or sub-agent, under pretence of paying
deb s? '-The assignments were made by -Baufn to enable Oliver to
seize the Port Lawrence property. The fbreclosure of the mortgage
had been made for that purpose. Thus the matter was, fixed up
between them to take all, in and-.out of Port Lawrence, and let the
cestuis pie trust lose all the money. paid out for all the land,' all
VoL. II.--48
- 212

878

SUPREME COUAT.
Oliver et al. v. Piatt

paid to Oliver, to Baum, and to everybody else; and a balance,
the whole of Baum's account rendered; and.two-thirds of Oliver's,
still' outstanding!
The lots 1 and 2 having been obtained with the. lands of the
Port Lawrence Company, by such means, and by persons standing
in the relation in which Baum and Oliver stood, and il which Williams .also stood, must be held in trust for the Port Lawrence'Company. Williams was one of that company, and was bound to have
notice of the manner in which Ba'um held, and the relation in which
Oliver stood; and his denials amount to nothing. I need not
trouble this court with reference to authority to support the general
doctrine, that a fiduciary cannot hold for himself the subject purchased with the funds intrusted. There are some qualifications of
the yule. But why should there be any here? This is.not a case
where so much money has been laid out in lands by one who held
money in trust, either to lay it out in lands, or for any other purpose.; that money has no ear-mark, does not make a difficulty here.
It is not a case, either, where justice cannot be rendered to the parties purchasing the land, if any thing further than a specific lien
were given on the land purchased. But this is a case where the
lands exchanged have been improperly obtained, and applied to the
exclusive use of parties standing in a relation to compel them, in
good faith, to divide the lands acquired, taking to themselves a
sufficient compensation. It is not necessary that there shall be a
direct violation of a formal trust, to allow the parties, claiming to
have the benefit of the purchase, that privilege. Docker'v. Som'es,
2 Mylne & Keene, 655; 4 Kent's Com. 306; Holt v. Holt, 1 Ch.
Ca. 19; Walley v. Walley, 1 Vein. 484; Palmer v. Youxlg, 1 Vern.
276 ; Lane v. Dighton, Ambler, 409 ; 1 Bro. Ch. Rep. 232;
2 Bro. Ch. Rep. 287; Phillips v. Crammond, 2 Wash. C. C. Rep.
"441; Holeridge v. Gillespie, 2 John. Oh. Rep. 33. This case
is very similar in its principles to the cases of a renewed leas63 procured by an executor or guardian, when he shall be a trustee of tle
new lease.; and of a surrender by one partner and a new lease taken
to himself, where his partners shall hold him as a trustee, as in some
of the cases just cited. The doctrine contended for has been uniform, from the decision of Lord Keeper Bridgman, in Holt v. Holt,
says Chacellor Kent, to- the present time.
Scott, on the same side, far appellees.
This cause is brought before this court by appeal from a decree
of the Circuit Court of the United States, seventh circuit, and district of Ohio; and in its discussion we shall, assume the following
positions:
1. At the time lots 3 and 4, (except ten acres, part of lot 3, reserved,) and the three quarter-sectiois in the bill named, were
transferred by William Oliver to the trustees of the Michigan Uni-

JANUARY TERM, 184 .

879

Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

versity, in exchange for lots 1 and 2, said Oliver was the trustee,
and Robert Piatt, the original complainant, and others, the cestuis
gue trust of the lands then giveni in exchange for lots 1 and 2-of
the ten acres reserved, part of lot 3 ; of lot 86, (except sixty acres,
parts thereof sold to Prentiss and Tromley;) of lot 7, and the
south-east quarter of section 3, of township 3-all in the twelve
miles reservation, at the foot of the rapids of the Miami of Lake
Erie.
2. When Oliver received conveyances from 'the trustees of the
Michigan University (and assignments of the original first certificates
from Bau, and obtained a patent therefr) of lots 1 and 2, in exchange for the three quarter-sections of land which belonged to the
Piatt Company, and for part of lot 3 and lot 4, which belonged to
the Port Lawrence Company, he became invested with the legal
title to said lots 1 and 2, as trustee in trust for said Piatt and Port
Lawrence Companies, from whom the consideration given for said
lots 1 and 2 proceeded.
3. M. T. Williams is not an innocent bona fide purchaser. He
is affected with: notice at and prior to the respective periods in which
he received conveyances from Oliver, of portions of the lands in
question, and therefore holds the same as trustee, for the uses and
purposes originally designed. 1 Phillips's Evidence, 410, 411;
Comyn's -Digest, tit. Evidence, B. 5; Plowden 234, 430, 434;
2 Ser . & Rawle, 507; Gilbert's Evidence, 87; 1 Salk. 285;
Marchioness of Anandale v. Harris, 2 Peer Williams, 432; Shelby
v. Wright, Willis, 11; Com. Dig. tit. Estoppel, A. 2.
4. Oliver as agent; and Oliver and Williams as trustees, are
bound to itcount with and pay to the original complainant, Robert
Piatt, his just proportion of the money and notes received by them
on the sales of lots in Port Lawrence and Toledo, and lands adjacent, and to convey to him his just pYoportion of such parts thereof
as remain unsold.
5. Oliver andWilliams have no just cause to complain of the
decree whicr has been rendered against them in the Circuit Court,
as ample and more than liberal justice has been awarded t6 them,
even if their conduct in the premises had been entirely untainted by
fraud or a fraudulent design, and they had been merely acting under
an entirely innocent but mistalen view of their legal rights. But it
is respectfully submitted, that Robert Piatt, the heirs of Martin
Baum, and the other defendants in interest, have just cause to complain of that decree.
The answers of all the defendants, except Oliver and Williams,
to the amended bill of the original complainant, Robert Piatt, are
in the nature of cross-bills, aid respectively ask for similar relief, as
respected him or themselves, to that prayed for by the complainant,
Robert Piatt.
It vias therefore proper for the court in rendering the decree, to

SUPREME -COURT.
Oliver et al. v. Piatt

adjust and settle the interests and claims of all the parties to the
record.
I.. (Mr. Scott related the formation of the Port Lawrence Company.)
" The partnership thus fornied was ueither universal nor general,
but limited and confined to the objects set forth in the instructions,
&c., given to Oliver, and the facts to which we shall refer, from
which the rights, duties, and obligations of Baum, the trustee, and
Oliver, the agent, are to be ascertained.
It is. conceded that Baum. continued to act as trustee until his
death. That Baum's powers were restricted to a general oversight
of the company's business, and the execution of conveyances of
the lots and lands when sold, we also infer from the following facts:
-Baum, in his letter to Brown, 25th December, 1822, gays: "For
the sake of convenience, all the lands, by the company, were transferred to me." In his letter to the same, February 6th;.1823, he
also says: "All the tracts stood in my name, in order to render it
more convenient to sell and, convey;" and in his letter to the commissioner of the General Land Office, July 20th, 1827, he says:
"'These lands, hough. bbught in sundry persons' names, were afterwards transferrLd to me as ageit, for the purpose of managing and
conveying them in case of sales." All the certificates, for the put,poses aforesaid, were assigned to Baum.
Oliver, as agent, with the assistance of Schenck, proceeded to
lay out the town, advertised a sale of lots, and sold a: number of
lots. His instructions confined him to the sale of a certain portion
of the lots, *fixed the terms of sale, and required him to give certificates of purchase, in the'nature of title-bonds, for a donveyance by
Baum, the trustee. He was to open an immediate correspondence
with Baum relative to th6 interests of the company, -and was in-.
formed, that any instructions h. might thereafter receive from Baum,
the trustee, were- to b.e considered as coming directly from the proprietors themselves.. This is all shown by his instructionslis bond
to Baum. and power of attorney from Baum.
The letter given by Baum to Oliver, notifying him 6f his appointment, .which relates. particularly to the, salary he was to receive,
-would seem to restrict his agency to one year; but-his appointment
by the company was without limit as to time. His appointment
being without limit as to time, the law presumes a continuance of hi.
agency. (See Sfarlde's Evid. 46, 50, 51, cited.) Oliver insists
that be never acted as agent of the Port Lawrence Company after
his r6signation, .in May or Juiie, 1818. But the following facts
and circumstances show that his agency.ex ended beyond that period, and that he still stands in that relation to the company.
(Mr. Scott here referred to numerous parts of the record.)
We thus deem the agency of Oliver, from August, 1817, the
-date of his original appointment, down to the 20th June, 1834, es-

JANUARY TERM 184.

881

Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

tablished; the -consequences resulting from which agency will be
examined hereafter.
Oliver was one of the original proprietors of Port Lawreiice; and,
although he may have transferred'his -interest in the company to
others, in 1818 and 1819, as he alleges in his answer, yet all the.
liabilities against said company'had accrued pri6r to said transfers.
These transfers did not discharge him from the liability'to persona
who had claims growing out of purchases made prior to bis trans-'
fers, which liabilities have not yet been entirely satisfied. (See
Collyer on Partnerships, 4, 105 ; and Story on Partneirjips, § 358.)
No settlegient among the original proprietors br their legal repre-,
sentatives or assignees has ever been made; -his relation, therefore,
to the company, as one of the original partneis, still remains, and
the consequences of this relationiwill also be examined during the
progress of the cause.
The pressure of the times and other causes rendered it indispensably necessary for-'the company to avail themselves of the benefit .of
the act of Congress for the' relief bf purchasers of the public lknds
prior to the 1st day of July, 1820, by the relinquishment of lots 1and 2, and the application of the money paid thereon to the payment
of 'the purchase money of other lands bought by them. The amount
paid.on tracts 1 and 2'was $4817 55j. The balance due on lots
3, 4; 86 and 87, was $1402 361; .and the balance due by the Piatt
'Company, for their five quarter-sections, was $1248. In order to
facilitate, therefore, the.applicati6n of the moneys paid on said lots
I and 2, the original, first certificates of the purchase of said Iotg 1,
2, 3, 4, 86 and 87, and the five quarter-sections., were all assigned to
Baum.
M. T. Williams, as agent, made the relinquishment of said tracts
1 and 2, and applied the moneys arising therefrolm to the discharge
'of the balances due on"the lands rethined, September 27, 1821, and
the surplus remaining -after such payment was $949 -1; 6n -half of
'which, viz., $474 60j, belonged to the Piatt Company.' This balance, by arrangement between the-parties, 'was applied to the payment of lands 'which had been. purchased by the Maumee andi Sandusky. Company, and which was to be accounted for as part of the
Piatt Company's portion of the liabilities of the Port Lawrence
Company.
All the defendants, except Oliver and Williams, distinctly admit
that the five quarter-se~tions were assigned to Baum!for the purposes
above named, and that no consideration moved, or was intended to
move, from Baum to the Piatt Company, as, an inducement to said
assignments. Neither-Oliver jor Williams deny that the assignments
were made for the above pftrposes. The assignments being thus
mAde for the above purposes, those purposes being acccomplished,
a-trust resulted to the Piatt Company in said five quarter-sections.
See. Jackson v. Millsk, 13 Johns. R. 463;-Boyd v. Lane, 1 Johns.

382

'SUPREME COURT.
Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

Chan. R. 582; Wallace v. IDuffield, 2 Serg. & Rawle, R. 521;
Foote v. Calden, 3 Johns, R. 216; Trustees of the Methodist Episc.opal Church v. Jacques, 1 Johns. Ch. R. 450; Botsford v. Burr,
2 Johns. Ch. R. 405; Huston v. Hamilton, 2 Binn. R. 387; Deg
v. Deg, 2 P. Williams, 412.
(Mr. Scott then referred to various parts of the r ecord to show that
when lots 1 and 2 were relinquished;,it was done with an understanding and determination, among the original proprietors, to repurchase them, and go forward with the enterprise of building up a
town; and then argued, from the following prepositions, that Oliver
intended to defraud his associates.)
1. In order to place himself in a situation in which he might secure to himself a part or the whole of the five quarter-sectioris belonging to the Piatt Company, Oliver procured from M. Baum the
certiftcate dated. September 10, 1822.
The giving of that certificate did not fall within the scope of
Baum's authority as trustee. See Story on Partnerships, § 111.
The accounts between the partners could not be split up, as
contemplated by that certificate, so as to render 6ne partner liable in his individual capacity for claims against the whole of the
partners.
At the time that certificate was given, nothing was due from the
Piatt Company to the Port Lawrnce Company, but, on the contrary,
the sum of $191 was due from the latter to the former. No suit
at law could be maintained by Oliver, the aent, for the recovery
of the amount of said certificate, it being fraudulent and void;
and if a just demand, it was due from the Port Lawrence Company,
.and not the Piatt Company, and a suit could not be maintained
on it against the Piatt Company. See Story on Partnerships, § 234,
235, 236, and 128; Jacksonv. Rawlins, 2 Vernon, 95; Maddox v.
Jackson, 3 Atkins, 406; Anon., 2 Freeman, 27.
2. Oliver's letter to R. Piatt, February 3, 1823.
3. No demand for-payment of said certificate -was ever made upon
the Piatt Company, or any of its members; nor was there ever any
legal proceedings instituted against them where they resided.
4. The very fact of instituting legal proceedings in a foreign jurisdiction, against the property of the Piatt Company, at a point situated more than two hundred and fifty miles from the residence of
any of the members of the Piatt Company, and which point could
only be reached by passing through a dense and uninhabited wilderness, whilst most of those members resided in the imfnediate neighbourhood of Oliver, furnishes strong evidence of a fraudulent and
ulterior design on the part of Mr.-Oliver to secure to himself the property of the Piatt Company.
5- At October term of 'th County Court of Monroe county, Michigan Territory, "825, Oliver sued out a writ of foreign 'attachment
on the aforesaid "certificate, against Martin Baum, Robert Piatt,

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

383

Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

George A. Worth, and William M. Worthington, survivors of Martin Baum, John H. Piatt, (deceased,) Robert Piatt, George A.
Worth, and William M. Worthington, late joint partners. The
manner in which this attachment was sued out would seem to furnish conclusive e- idence of a fraudulent intent. George A. Worth
never was a partner, nor had any interest in the' Piatt Company;
nor were Martin Baum, John H. Piatt, (deceased,) Robert Piatt,
George A. Worth, William M. Worthington, late joint partners.
The three quarter-sections on which the attachment was levied did
not belong to the persons named in the attachment, but to the representatives of John H. Piatt, (deceased,) Robert P1iatt, Gorham A.
Worth, and William M. Worthington. This is not like the case
where process has been served on an individual by a wrong name,
in which case he has an opportunity of appearing in oiirt and pleading the misnomer in abatement. In attachment, the procee'dings
being in rern, if the property on which the .attachment be levied belong not to the defendants' named in the writ, itis respectfully silbmitted that the court has no jurisdiction in the case. Even if the
notice Which seems to have' been given of the pendency of the attachment had by accident reached the members of the Piatt Company, they could not have supposed that they were the persons intended. The .plaintiffi in all'such cases, proceeds at his peril.
Kilboum v. Woodworth, 5 Johns. Ch. R. 40; Fisher v. Lane,
3 Wils. 297; Phelps v. Holldrk, 1 Dal]. 261 ; Kibby v. Kibby, Kirby, 119; Buchanan v.Bucker, 9 East, 192 ; S. P. Robertson v. Ex'rs
of Ward, 8 Johns. R.; and Fenton v. Garlick, Ibid. 152; also,
Manuscript F, p.. 6.
At the time of the levy, judgment, and sale, under the attachment,
the lemal title to the three quarter-sections levied on remained in the
Unitea States; the evidende of the equitable title was vested in
Baum.; and the ohly claim which the Piatt Compariy had was a
mere resulting trust, not subject to be levied on uder attachment or
execution; Ad, consequently, the whole proceedings under the attachment, the conveyance to Noble, and by him to Oliver, were absolutely null and void. Lessee of Abraham's heirs v. Will et al.;
6 Ohio R. 164; 2Powell on Mortgages, p. 457, A; Co. Lit. 35, A;
MS. p. 7, &c.; and the opinion anfd authorities cited by his hbnaur
Judge McLean, in giving his opinion in-this case, pp. 20, 21.
Oliver's title to the three.quarter-sections purchased under the attachment was not strengthened by taking assignments of the briginal
first certificates of purchase from Baum, nor by' the attainment of
patents under them; for by having notice of the trust, he himself
became the trustee to the Piatt Company. See Lucas v. Mitchell,
3 Marshall, 244; MS. letter G, p. 9. The procuring an assignment
of the original first certificate of purchase of the fourth quarter-section
from Baum, and obtaining a-patent under it, he having notice of the

884'

SUPREME COLR-r.
Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

trust, constituted him a trustee to the Piatt Company for that.quarter-section.
. 6. On the 2.7th dhy-of August, 1823, Oliver fraudulently, and
in
violation of the great.confidence reposed in him by Baum, the'truste.e; obtained from him a mortgage of Ell the property'belonging to
the Port Lawrence Conpany. This mortgage was obtained in or'der to secure Oliver for his. propoition 'of the moneys for the purchkse and improvements of lbts 223 and 224, in Port Lawrence;
the amount contracted to be paid to B. F. Sticlmey, for lots and im-provements in Port Lawrence which he surrendered; and the amoulrt
charged .for 'his (Oliver's) services and expenses in sittling with,
Sticknpy, and transacting other business for the compan, to the entir6 exclusion of-the interests.of Baum, and all the-other proprietors
and creditors of the Port Lawrence Company.'
Baum,- as trustee, had no authority t6 execute the mortgage, as
his powers 'ere lhnifed,,from his own showing, to that of executing
conveyarices 'forr the lots or land, in case of sales of' lots by the
".agent, Oliver, or of the lands by order of the ceshs qwue tr st themselves. Story on Parthers!ips, §*11.1 and 101, commencing on p.
146; -and Manuscript, p. 20, letter M. Oliver 'could not sell the
lands to himself, and it is'clear tat no sale was made to him by. the
cestuis gu"trust.'
The "mortgage,is fraudulent, as it related to Baum, and given to
rid himself of the importunity of Oliver.
. No notice of the existence of this mortgage seems ever to have
been. given to the memiers of the Port Lawrence Corhpany,'.by
Oliver..
In October, 1825, Oliver filed his bill in the-Supreme Court of
Michigan Territory, sitting ag a coufit of chancery, against Baum,
r4ying a decree for payment of the moneys due on said mortgage,
ym
'short day, to be named; and, in 'default thereof, that Baum,
tnd' all -claiming, under him, miight be forebound of and from all
equity of rederatiton, of, in, and to, the mortgage premises, and
might dliver over to the plaintiff- 'all patent deeds, demises, and
writings, whateveri relating to*said pre'mises. In 1828, it was decreed that the defendant redeem the mortgage premises by payment
0to
the complainant of $2305 96- an' costs, by the 1st of July next
thereafter, or, in default -thereof, that the mortgage premises be sold.
The' mortgage premises' were' afterwards sold to Oliver, by the as:'
sistant register, for the sum of $618.56, and a deed made to Oliver.
The proceedings, decree, and gale, under the mortgage, were they
'yalid, have not extinguished the rights of the cestuis que trust of
Baum, they not having been made parties to the.suit. See 4th section of an act of the territory of Michigan, appreved April 12, 1827,
page 204, directing the mode of.procedure in chancery; Gore v.
"Stackpole, 1 Dow. Par. R. 1831; 3 Powell on Mortgages, 978 a, in
note; Haines et al. v. Beach et al., 3 Johns. Ch. A. 459, Drap.er

JANUARY TERM, 1846.-

885

Oliver et al. v. Fiat.

v. The Earl of Clarendon, 2 Verp. 517; Go-dfrey'v. Chadwell,
2 Vern. 601; Moret" . Westiene, 2 Vern. 663; Hobert v. Abbot,
2 P. Wmq. 64a,';Tell v. Brown, 2 Bro. 276; Polk v. Clinton,
12 Yes. 48, 59; Thd Bishop of Winchester v. Beaver, 3-Yes. 314;
same v. Paine, 11 -Ves.19 and 198; Shannor v. Cox,3 Ch.R. 46;
Xeedler v.Deeble, -1 Ch. Cases, 299; Monday v..Monday, 4 Ves.
and B. 223; Calvery v.Phelps et al., 6 Mad. 229; MS. letter H, p. 9.
7. A part of the debt, to secure which the' I-iortgage was given,
was due from Oliver himself; only a part of the debt wrs at all justly
due by the company, as therents of the warehouse, as before stated,
should have been'deducted therefrom.
•If it were not intended by Baum and Oliver that the repurchase
of lots'1 and 2 should inure to the benefit of the Port Lawrence
Company, then the following facts and circumstances furnish, additional evidence of a fiaudulent intention'
8. Baum's letter to the commissioner o.the General Land Office,
dated January 20, 1827.
9. Oliver's negotiation -with the trustees of the University of:Michigan Territory.
10. The several acts of Congress above referred to, authorizing
the exchange of lands by the Univer~ity of Michigan Territory, with
Oliver, for lots 1 and 2, and tfie issuing of the patent to Oliver for
said tracts. 6 Laws U. S. 550.
0
11. The assignments by Baum "tbOliver of the original first certificates of purchase of the mortgage premises and the four quaitersections. The procurement of those assignments did not better the':
condition of Oliver. See Freeman v.Barnes, and Dihton v.Green.
ville 1 Vent. 82; Ibid. 239, and 1 Sid. 460; Focus.v. Salsbury,
Hard. 400; Bowlps'.v..Stewart, 1 Sho. & Lef.. 228; IKeneday V.
•J)aily, Ibid. 379; Lord Portsfhouth v.Vincent, cited in Lord Ponflet v.Wardson, 2 Yes. 476; Thynne -v.Carey,. W Jones, 416;
Kennoul v.Greeville, 1 Ch."Cas. 295; Bovey v.Smith, 18th'Dec.,
"1676; Salsbury v.Bagot, L6rt Not. MSS. .2, Swianst.. 610, and
MS. letter I, p. 12.
12. The contract betweeir Oliver, .Baum, and Williams.
13. The change of the name of the town -of Port Lawrence, -which
was established by the proprietors in 1817, to that- of Toledo, in
1835,. long subsequent to the death of Baum.'
14. The sale of shares, aid.town-lots, and tracts of-land, belonging to the Port Lawrence Company, in violation .of the trud and
confidence reposed in hiia by the proprietors of that company.
15. The enormous amount of money recklessly and most injudiciously expended, under the plea of improvements, without the an-.
thority or-concurrence of-the owners, viz., $42,813 41.
16. The pleas interposed by Oliver and Williams, in order to prevent a disclosure of their frauds, and to bar the*propriebrs from asserting tefr rights.
VOL., I.--49
2K

886

SUPREME COURT.
Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

17. After theiendition 'of the interlocutory decree, when Oliver
and Williams were compelled to render an account, the enormbus
and unconscionable demands made by them, before the master, for
compensation -for their' services in an abortive attempt to wrest. the
property from its rightful owners, in order to swallow up the large
amount of money in their hands belonging to their cestuis que trust,
furnishes conclusive evidence of their Iaudulenf designs.
We have thus traced the course of Mr. Oliver from 1817, the
time at which he became a member of the Port Lawrence Company,
and was appointed'the agent to manage its concerns, and th6 course
of M. T. -Williams from 1819, when he became a.proprietor in the
Port Lawrence Company, down to a period subsequent to the exchange of lands made by Ollrer with the trustees of the University
of Michigan'Territory,-for lots 1 and 2; and we therefore respectfully submit, that we have clearly established the position with which
we set out, namely, "that theettime lots 3 and 4 (except ten acres,
part of lot 3. reserved) dnd the three- quarter-sections, in the bill
named, were .transferred by William Oliver- to the trustees of the
Michigan University, in exchange for lots 1 and 2, said Oliver wa
•the
trstee, an'd Robert Piatt the oiginal complainant, and others,
•the •cestuis gue trust of the lands 'then given in exchange for lots 1
lots 86 (except
lot 3-of
part of and
acres reseived,
and 2--of
lot 87,
Tromley)-of
sold to Prentiss
p.rts thereof
acres, thelten
sixty
l in the
of
foot of the rapids of .te Miami
the
at
reservation
twelve-miles
and the'.south-east quarter of section 3,'of township 3,

Lake Erie.
At the time of the exchange, the parties stood related to each
other ag'follows : Oliver w~s the trustee and the Piatt. Company
Olive'r
were" the cestuis gu irws. of- the four quarter-sections, and
the
were

was also .the trustee, and the Port Lawrence Company

86 and 87, (except sixty acres, parts
cestuis qui trust of lots 3, 4,Tromley.)
off 86, sold to Prentiss and
II. 'When Oliver received conveyances from the trustees of the
Michigan University (and assignments of the original first certificates
lots 1 and 2, in exfrom Bau, and obtained a 'patenttherefor) of
of land thich belonged to the
change for the- three qua er-section3

Piatt Compan nd for part of lots3 and 4 which belonged to the
Port Lawrence Company, he became in'rested with the legal title to
Port lots
Lawrence
Piatt and
trust for maidgiven
2, as trustee
said lots 1 and
1 and
for said
whom the inconsideration
from

Companies,

-2 proceeded.

1. The relatio inwhich Oliver stood connected with the Port
Lawrence Company, as an original proprietor, partner, and agent,
unadjuast•many of the accounts and- claims against which remained
ed- and. unsatisfied at the" time of the exchange, he could not, con-

sistent iith the principles of equity,acquire property for his own
use, the btaining of whichwould defeat the very object of the

JAINUARY TERM, 1845.

387

.Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

original association. (See Tarkhurst v. Alexander, I Johns h. R.
394; Green v. Winter, 1 Johns. Ch. R. 26; Evertson -v. rappan,
5 Johns. R. 497; Halley v. Manlius; 7 Johns. Ch. R. 174;" Matiews
v. Degaud, 3 Desaus. 28; Anderson v. Stark, Hen. & MWif.
245"; Hudson v. Hudson, '5 Munfi 180; M~slky's administrator
v. Buck'and Brander, 3 Munf. 232; Buck and Brander v. Cope- land, Call. 218; Prevost v.Gratz, 1 Peters, 373,;- Hart v-. Tenyke,
2 Johns. Ch. R. 62, 104; White, v. Brown, 2 Car: Law R. 429;
Howel v:Baker, 4 Johns. Ch. R. 118; McClenneghaM v. Henderson, 2 Marsh, 3M9; Van Home v&.Fonda, 5 -Johns. Ch. R. 388;..
Holdridge v. Gillispee, 2 Johns. Ch. R. 30,252; Reyden v. Jondsi
1 Hawk. 497; Conway v. Greene, r Har. & Johns.'151; Mathews,
389; 2 Sim. & Stu. 49, 50; 1 Wils. Ch. "Cases, 1; 10 Ves. 428,
429; 6 Ves. 625; Lucas v. Mitchel, 3 Marshall, 244; Hon.. J.
McLean's opinion in this case, and the authbrities cited by'him, p.
31; MS. letterE, p. "3, and letter G, p. 9.)
2. As the entire consideration given for lots 1 and 2 proceeded
not from Oliver, but from the Port Lawrenct and Piatt Companies'
a trust resulted to them in the lands tlius acquired -with their mleans.
(See the authorities relatingy to resdlting trust§, and trusts arising by
operation of law, hereinbetore referred to, MS. letter D, p.-2.)
We have now, we submit, demonstrated the original complainant,
Robert Piatt's, right to a decree against Oliver and 'Williams, for his
just proportion of lots 1, 2, 86, 87, of the ten acres reserved, in 3,
and the one quarter-section named in the bill remaining unsold; and
for his just proportion of the moneys; &c., remaining un their hands,
arising from the sales to others of part of the lots and.lands in question.
3. M: T. Williams is not an' innocent bontz fide puch.ser. -He
is affected with notice at and, prior to, the respective periods in'
which he received conveyances from .Oliver, of'portions of the lands
in question, and .thdrefore holds -th same as trustee, for the uses
and purposes orignally designed. 1 Phillips's EvidenCe, 410,411;.
Com. Dig. tit. -Evidence, b. 5; Plowd. 234, 430, 434; 2 Serg.
& Rawle, 507; Gilbert's Evidence, 87; 1 Salk, 85; Marchioness
of, Anantale tf Harris, 2 Peer Williams, 432; Shelby v. Wright,
Willis, 11; Com. Dig. tit. Estoppel, A, 2; MS. letter K, p. 16.
4. Oliver as agent, and Oliver and Williams as trustees, are
bound to account with and pay to the original: complainant, Robert
Piatt, his just proportion of the money and-nofes *received by them
on the sale of lots in Port Lawrence and Toledo and lands adjacent,
and to convey to him his just proportion of the lots remaining unsold,
.Ewig,for appellants, in reply:and conclusion, divided his argument into differe t heads; and directed his attention chiefly'to the
facts in the case.

888

S-UPREME COURT.
-Oliver et a

v. Piatt.

1. The agency of Oliver.
This commenced on 14th August, 1817, by three papers of that
date: '1. Power of attorney. - 2., Letter of-instructions. 3. Letter
.lixiting it to one year.
'The .account presented by Oliver to Baum, referred t-in the
answer, is now a file in the cause, arid is also inserted in extenso,
in the waster's "reporf. By this it appears, taking the date as our
,guide, that Oliver was paid his salary down to the 4th day of July,
1818. To this the sum allowed him also conforms. He enteredinto the service 6f, the company on'the 14tr of August4\1817. 13e
o settlement
Was allowed a sal6 of $1200 a'year. "Hewas paido
$1070, which would be the amount due him on the -day the item.
bears date. The same, paper shows a full iettlbment and payment
by hiin of all the funds in his hands, and a-balance overpaid by him
was placed :to his credit on the private'books, of Baum, and passed
by Baum to his own credit as against the company. All the papers
rilating to this*settlement, which are referred to id the answer of
Oliver, as delivered over to iBaum, are found.in bundle-A, of papers
-accompanying 'the master's report,'numbered in blue ink from 374
to 382. Amona -them is an account of Baum with -the"Port Law-.
.renceCompany, showing a final settlement with Oliver, and. charging separately to each bf the two rompanies-whose union constituted
the Port Lawrence Company, its half of the amount found due to
Maj. Oliver, and paid over by them to Baum. On a simple view
of theie facts it s-difficult to perceive how it can be contended for
a nioment that the "agency in Which OliVer was engaged in 1817,
was a perdurable, continuiihg agency. It expIrea by its express
limitation at the end of one year-.so says he answer of Oliver-so
says the -letter of Baum; accompanying the power. The answer
tates that before the year expired, inthe beginingof July, 1818,
the agency was ended by mutual consent, the accounts of the agency'
closed, axd all the -papers relative thereto surrendered. The file
above- referred to, from Nos. 374 to 382, (original papers,) fhqws
conclusively the-same fact. See Stoiy's Agency; 499. There was n6 agency.on the part of Oliver from July 4, 1817,
until after the relinquishmeni't in Sei4tember, 1821, and this-will be
considered- under'the seventh head..
2. Oliver a jhrtner.
It is said by the other side that he.was a partnerr. But he sold
out his shares in 1818 and 1819, ha4 both"his vendees -yere acknow"ledged as.partners. At thetime ofthese sales, the partnership was
not indebted. It is trte$he coiild not have exonerated himself from
liability'to those persons'to whom lots- had leen' sold. H. was.
bound to matke his contract.with them good. - But he was not a
piarty to the relinquishment in 1821, and it-may be doubted whether
he would have been liable in equityi td the other partners, for a debt
preated by the relinquls.ament. . The funds obtained by it from the

JANUARY TERM, 184.

389

Oriver et'al. v. P-iatt.

Unfted States were applied to the payment for other lands, insteadof going to cancel the obligations outstanding to purchasers of
lQts.
3. The nature of the partnership and the powers of Baum to arid
at the time of-the relinquishment.
The company was a quaA .corporation, represented, by a head or
committee. The books are full of such cases. When these associations are legal, they are recogqisea--both at law and in equity.
One, is called in Vesey the "5fruit club, ' and .the -court said' that it
was sufficient to make the-" committee" parties, and not necessary
to include all the members of the club. So in. the Covent. Garden
case. Baum had all the title, and in consequence, of his own eitens'vW powers, granted a. power* to Oliver. We must judge of
Baum's powers by his acts. The certificate.s'were held by im.'
It is said that this power" ceased when 1 and2 wbre relinquished.
But at that .time- a latge debt .existed. Seveny-in covenants of
Baum were-all broken, and a debt of more thai $400 created at the
instant of relinquishment, .The avails, amounting to $4817 55, were
applied to othei lands, _and those lands ought to have been -placed
in the haiidA of Baum as a security for his, liabilities. The partnership was not over; the debti, had to be paid. The bill :says that
Baum had no power to sell, but the answer asserts that he had, and
this is confirmed by the-evidence.' Jn 1821, at the relinquishment..,
Baum had the title. All covenahts were made by him hi his own
name, or by Oliver -in the name of Banu ;. and these c6venants,
such as the sale to Tromley and Prentiss,'were acquiesced in.: He
wis liable for all the improvement§ on 1 and 2, and; it was natural"
that the certificates for the lands which had been fully paid for,
should be placed in his hands. The court below say that no debts
existed; but this is an error. It is said that the, defendanfs (eiecept
Oliver) admit that the transfer of the -certificates was made to Baumonly to enable him to perfect the title. This is admitted by one of
the nominal defendants, but the active prosecutor, who l4as admitted $100,000 into his own pocket. It does not bind us. There
was no necessity for such a transfer~to enable Bium. tocomplete
the title, (for the script was receivable for any lands within the district,) without reference to their being owvned by te -same man who.
held the script. -The only good reason that can be giyen is, that if
was done to secure Baum. This claim was-not madeutil he died.
How does it happen that the title to the quarter-sections was sufferea
to remain in Baum fot fourteen years, -unless it had been place -ir
his hands as security. Equity would have kept it there, if an effort
had been made to take it away. The security was scarcely=sufficient, because .the lands had been bought at $2, and the piice of
lailds reduce.d to $1 25 per acre, The interpretation which musL_.
be given to these acts of the parties concerned is, "'we mean to Tay
y~u, but if we do not, there is an adequate fund; of course, the pro2 K2

390

SUPREME COURT.
Oliver et al v. Piatt.

perty was subject to sale by Baum io pay debts, and he had a right
to pay a debt due to himself as well as one due to another person.
-4. Fraudulent combination between Baum and Oliver.
It is charged that as early as 1821 there was a plan laid by these
two men to defr'aud the other members of the Port Lawrence Company of this property; and that such combination was carried on for
six succeeding years, until 1828, when, at last,. thby got possession
in the name of Oliver by virtue of a sale in chancery.
The cost of these tracts at the sale in 1817 was less than $1800;
their value from 182-2 to 1828 -was less than $1000. it is taxing the
credulity of men greatly indeed to ask them to believe, that for the
possession of -wild land such as this, so remote from his residence
and so little attractive as it then was, Baum would combine with
Oliver or any one else, and by a long train of artifice and fraud,
continued and practised for a series of years, pursue this as the great.
and absorbing object of his life.
But if the motive were adequate, and the~suppositioni not contradicted by probability, the evidence in the case wholly repels .such a
conclusion.
Baum was not the man who would engage in such a dishonest
combinatibn. He was not in a condition to do it, if he had been
base enough for the purpose. His state of mind at the time was
such as wholly precludes the idea. On these points there is abundant evidence, to some 6f which I will refer.
(Mr. Ewing here referred to various parts of the record.) It appears, then; that there we.re seventy-nine outstanding covenants by
Baum, some as small as $1-5, some as large as $1000, but all vexatious. He was the only person troubled about them, and had been,
during all his previous life, a nervously punctual man. Some of
the witnesses say, "1they feared for his intellect." . In this condition
-he applied to Oliver, a young man whom -he had taken by the hand
and who was familiar with the subject. The first measure 6f relief
wEs-to buy up the small'vexatious claims. Teni were bought up for
$231. The people there all knew Oliver-he had been out in the
north-western campaign. Baum paid these claims.: that'is the fraud;
and paid them through Oliver-: that isthe combination. Was it
wrong in Oliver to do this? His conduct is consisteiat with the best'
as well as with the worst m6tives. Baum is now dead, and his sonin-law, to' whom his papers descended, now comes here to fasten
fraud upon him. He wished to refund the money which Oliver had
thus advanced, but not being able to do so, gave him a: certificate,
acknowledging the debt.
5. The certificate of_$213 07.
The complainant, for the purpose of making out a case of fraudulent concealment and sinister purpose upon the partof Major Oliver,
avers, that though he, the complainant, lives, and lived at that time,
on the Ohio river, within forty miles of Cincinnati, and was *eekly

JANUARY -TERM, 1845.

391

Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

in the city, where Baum and the defendant resided, he never knew
any thing of the alleged indebtedness, until he.received a letter from
Major Oliver, sometime in 1823; and that this was all the knowledge he had upon the subject, for the order never was presented to
him to be paid or rejected, until suit was brought upon it, in attachment, in Michigan.
In reply to these allegations, the defendant, Oliver, answers, and
" denies that there was any fraud or unfairness in said certificate for
$213 07, dated September 10th, 1822, mentioned in the bill; and
-he says, that the same w~s justly due to him from the Piatt Company, for one-half the amount previously advanced by him, at the
request of Baum, to re-imburse purchasers of lots in Port La-wrence,
for which an account was rendered to said Baum at the time, with
the vouchers therefor. This defendant has not in his possession the
means of re-statincr that account, but believes that the exhibit Q,
attached to complanant's bill, contains a ttue statement of that matter, and that the item of 426 14 on the debit side of that account
shows'the lots for therefunding the purchase money of which said
certificate was given in part, being the half thereof, due from said
Piatt Company; and that said defendant repeatedly, at different
times, in 1822 and afterwards, -requested said complainant to refund
to him the amount of-said certificate, which the said complainant always
avoided or 'refusea to do; and this respondent dis ncfly told the
complainant, that he would attach said quarter-section to satisfy said
debt, unless it was otherwise-paid; and defendant repeatedly requested payment of the same both before and after his letter to complainant.of February 3d, 1823, referred to in the bill, and even offered to surrender up or rel6ase to said complainant said land after
he had acquired the title, if said complainant would pay said debt
of defendant."
This statement in the answer isresponsive to the bill, and therefore evidence in the case; it shows an early and repeated request on
the part of Major Oliver to the complainant to pay him in behalf of
his company what was justly-due to him. It showis that the complainant evaded or glanced off every-attempt on the part of this creditor to converse with him about the matter, until at last Oliver felt
it was necessary to act, or submit to the loss of -what he had adHe, therefore, on the 3d of February, 1823, five months
after the date of the certificate, enclosed a letter to the complainant,
in,
which he states to him the reasons why he incurred the liability,
and the fact that the one-half due by the Baum Company had been
paid him. It is obvious from the letter, that he recognises the complainant, since the death of J. H. Piatt, as the head of the Piatt
Company, and he requests him to use his influence with the administrators
of John
Piatt to pay their proportion, and advise him
of the names
of theH.members
of the Piatt Company as then existing,
and their ,several interests.
-vanced.

92~s

U P RE IME :C-O U RT,
Oliver et 4L v.-Piatt

In the argument in the court below' we-thought this accbunt could
not be re-opened for examination.- Itwas a statement of a partnership account by the- acting partner, pammunicated. to call concerned,
and acquiesced in by'themn for twve -years; especially after the
trustee was dead, and his papers w.ere iixthe'hinds of n interested
party; and more especially,, that those, who claimed ccliatrally,
who ha no custody of 'these accounts 'ok power over them, ought
not to be called upon, under such circumstances, to vouch the account or 'forfeit "their right. ' We thought that, explained or unexplained , the, account was binding on the parties, so fr as third persons were concerned. The learned judge held otherwise, and this
error, as we respectfully contend it is, cofmnbined: with importaht mistakes in point of fact, lies at the foundation of the decision below.
(Mr. Bwing -here went into an elaborate examination of the record
for the purpose of showing that the account'was correct.),
6. The mortgage.
In the month o August, 1,823,'Oliver stated an -account of pay'ments made by himself and Baum for lots 223 and 224, and alsd an
e'act account, confirmed by original vouchers, bf all-the expenditures in improving the lots. Heicredits Baum with one-half the expenses, borne by himself, for which he had from time to time advanced inaoney to Oliver. He charges also what he had paid to
Benjamin- F. 8tickney for his advances andl'improvements ijpon his
lot, is compiomised pending his suit,' and te whole .account,
amounting to $1835 47i was presented -to.Baum for liquidation.
,Baum, bding without funds; of the company, and owing to his own
pecuniary embarrassmdnts, which then pressed heavily 'pon him,
unable himself to advance any thing,:moitgaged the. property of the
company which remined in his hands to Oliver, and by his circular
of January 31st, 1824, informed the individual members of the company of what he had done and the state of their indebtedness, and
earnestly solicited'-theni to' make some provision or- put it in his
power to provide. for the payment, sb that the property might be
made available to' cover their liabilities, which,'he assdires them, is
thh miost that can possibly be expected-. The other members of the
company, who had placed Baum -inthe front-of difficulty and trouble,
turned -a deaf eat to his suggestions and remonstrances: they did
not even deign to answer his letter. The complainant, -ho resided
but forty miles from Cincinnati, arid who was in the city weekly,did not even call to .examine'the account, to inquire into the state
of affairs, or speak asingle -word of cheering or encouragement to
his partner and agent, who vas left to 'bear, himself, their accumulated burden of misfortune and loss.
It seem to me that there was openness and"publicity enough
upon the part of Baum in this and ll his other acts to secure even
a man of doubtful character from the imputation of fraud, design,
or concealment. And in the case of the morfgage-he had magnani.

JANU:A.RY -TPERM, IM4.

8931

Oliver*et a], v. "Piatt.

mouz cast out of the account all that applied to himself--his own
payments to the company for the lots-his expenditures on their improvement, and contented himself *aswell as he could to. suffer the
loss, so that those who had trusted to him, and relied upon his good
faith, should come by no injury.
Proceedings upon this mortgage were not commenced by'Oliver
until about twelve months after the money fell due. In the mean
time, he avers in his answer, which, though-responsive to no special.
allegation, is clearly so to the general scope and tenour of the bill;.
that he used every effort to collect -this money of the parties, and
especially,.that he repeatedly aplied for that purpose to the complainant. I do not however conceive this to be a matter of :great.
importance. The indisputable fact is shown by the letter of Baum.
to ,all the partners, in 1824, that they all knew that suph mortgagdhad been given to 1ay the debts of- the company, and that, if the
money were not paid, ,the property would be proceeded against by
the mortgaagee in due .course of law. There is, therefore, no ground
to compWi of secrecyor concealment, and the question arises solely
upon the legality of the~transfer, including the execution of the mortgage, the procdedings in chancery under it, the'decree, the purchase,
and the final pssignmenf of the- certificates by Baum to Oliver after,
the sale. These are questions of great importance, and merit a,
careful consideration.
The right of Baum to sell and convey rests on two grounds:
1st. Because the property was personalty in his hands as acting.
partner.2d. As trustee of the real estate vested in him for the payment,
of debts.1st.. It was personalty.
It is-'objected, that the land in. this case cannot be consideted as
personalty, on the authority of the case where land connected with a
factory was drawn into question. But there the land was not the
subject-matter of the trade. Portions of the freehold Jn'a mine have
been severed and sold. It is true, that in the case'before us there.
was no 'authority to re-invest. But in:, pinciple, why should this
make a difference? The land here was bought to. sell again, andpartnership debts were contracted. What gopd reason can. be
given, why it should not- vest in 'the acting partner in the same
,manner as goods ?
Ad. But Baum was a trustee.
Having the title in himself, without any expressed 'estriction, he
is presumed to hold it for all the purposes to which equity would'
apply it,-and his act was confirmed by acquiescence in the sales to
Prentiss and Tromley, and in this mortgage for twelve years. ' It is
objected that an unreaonable amount. of property was mortgaged.
But the debt was $1835 47, and the first cost of the tracts mortVOL. 111.-5O

•394

SUPREME COURT.
O-1-ver et al. v. Piamr.

gaged was $1679 14, -nd-their value had been reduced by the act
of Congress reducing the price of public lands, to $1049 14; estimated in proportion. It was the duty of Baum to audit accounts
and to sell and convey property to pay debts. A morgage by him,
and a decree of 'foreclosure against him, are equivalent to his. deed
of bargain and sale. We. hold that the sale under the mortgage
gavy7to Oliver all the title of Baum, and a right to a patent. But
if not, if there be any thing irregular or imperfect in the pursuit of
our right, it is cured by the assignment of the certificates -and the
patent. How stands the case? Oliver has the legal title, and he
is called upon to surrender it. He has got it in payment of a debt,
fairly, from a person having power to settle the debt and convey the
land. But this 'trustee, so empowered, took two steps instead of
one. He first nortgaged, then assigned. In law, his mere assignment is good enough. Can this difficulty a's to mode. affect us in
equity? There is no reason why'this legal title'.so acquired, should
be now disturbed. The complainant had full notice of the mortgage, and of the suit thereon: .He.stood by: suffered the suit upon
the mortgage to proceed without coming in and making himself a
party, as he might have done; suffered the sale to be made without
objection; the certificates to be assigned and the patent to issue;
suffered Oliver to enter upon the property, expend his time, and
talents, and money, upon it; and we now claim that it is toolate
for him to go into chancery. -3 Vesey, 170.
The complainant should have made his election without waiting
for future developments. It is not a statutory bar that interposes,
but acquiescence.
(Mr. Ewing here went into calculations to show the value of the
property then, and until 1832.)
Up to the issuing of. the patents in 1830, the value of the property did not change. Suppose this bill had been filed in 1832.
No chancellor could have acted on the future use which Oliver
might make of the property. But that further use, and the enhanced value of the property, blends itself everywhere with .the
opinion of the court below, and is made to give a character to past
transactions.
1st. There is an impression that the tracts purchased under the
mortgage and the attachment were of great value; but, according
to the evidence, the whole property, at any time from 1822 to 1830,
was not worth, in cash, $1200.
2d. In making Oliver's exchange with the Michigan University
re-act upon and affect his purchase of the"other tracts.
3d. It fixes upon Oliver a knowledge, of the coningent future.
The bill to foreclose and the attachment were in 1825, and it is supposed that Oliver's design in acquiring the other tracts was to repossess 1 and 2; but at that time 1 and 2 belonged to the United
States, and there was no prospect that any thins but money would,

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

295

Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

ever purchase them. The University did not select ufntil June 25th,
1827.
7. Oliver's agency after the relinquishment;
At Baum's request he paid with his own money debts of tie Port
Lawrence Company; and the vouchers show great accuracy and
justice. Did this disable him from recovering the money so
strict
paid ?
8. Agreement to re-purchase.
The evideniee shows an intention on the part of Baum to repurchase, but there was no contract or -understanding to that effect.
Nor does any evidence show how he proposed td carry out his clesign, whether with his own money or a fund raised by contribution.
9. Suppose Baum had purchased and paid his money, would the
members of the Port Lawrence Company have been bound to contribute? or would any trust have resulted to them? or if Piatt had
made te purchase, could Baum have held aiy part of the property?
Neither of the parties ought to have purchased for the benefit of
their old partners. There would have been absent persons, insolvent estate infants, femes covert, all to unite in, the expenses
and incur the hazard of what counsel would have called a reckless
and 'ektravagant expenditure to build up a city. The purchase required capacity, c6nsent, contribution, and also situation and ability;
to join in its management. The negotiation with the United States
entirely failed.
10. The exchange for 1 and 2, and resulting trust.
It is contended that a trust results to the Port Lawrence Company
on two grounds:
1st. That the purchase was for Baum and his associates, who were
the Port Lawrence Company. This is charged in the bill and denied in.the answer ;, and the record shows that Oliver is sometimes
spoken of, in the records of the university, as acting for himseff
and sometimes for others. It was probably an error ,of Mr. Wing,
and corrected by Oliver as soon as discovered.
2d. That a trust resulted, because the sale on the attachment passed
no title to Oliver, and therefore the quarter-sections still belonged to
the Piatt Company; and because the sale under the mortgage passed
no title except that of Baum himself, therefore, with that exception;
thb tracts 3 and 4 belonged to the Port Lawrence Company; and
that Oliver having exchanged 3 and 4 and the quarter-sections for 1
and 2, a trust results therein to the Port Lawrence Company, and to
the Piatt Company.
But a member of the Port Lawrence Company has joined with a
member of the Piatt Company, and filed this bill. That the part-.
ners in the different companies happen to be the same individuals
does not help the "ease; it is a joinder of different claims in the
same bill, which becomes multifarious. If so, the difficulty lies
deeper than, mete pleading ; for without such joincqer the party can-

396

SUPREME COURT.
Oliver et al. v. Piatt

not present this multifarious case. No such case has ever been sustained. If there liad- been an agreement between these two colapanies that their land should be so exchanged, and they had vested
thetitle in Oliver for the purpose, the bill would lie. But there was
no sich agreement, and no trust assumed on -the part of Oliver.
He pirchased the two tracts of land at judicial sales, was in possession, claimed title, and made the exchange for himself. The,
books, we believe, show no, case in which the separate funids of
several-individuals can be followed into a joint investment, so as to
raise a trust ix the property. (See the authorities referred to by
Mr, Stanberry.)
The vast enhancement of the value of the fund withvihich land
2 were purchased, by applying to it the labour and skill of Oliver
- and Williams; the time, and efforts, and skill of Oliver, in bringing
about the exchahge, should be c6nsidered as a fund which helped'
to pay for I and-2 as fully as so much cash. The property has'thus
been-made to be worth more than an hundred fold as ipuch as it
was at the time pf the exchange. And this is all to be restored if
the court hold both, or either of the parties claiming, to be entitled
to it.
-

11. Estoppel.
Baum conveyed th lands included in the mortgage to Oliver,
with covenants -of warranty. Assets descended to his heirs, who are
estopped. Co. Litt. 325.
12. Williams is a bona fide purchaser without notice.
(See this head discussed at the conclusion of Mr. Sanberrj's
argument.)
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is the case of an appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court
of the district of Ohio, sitting in equity,,--rendered in favour of the
original plaintiff, and it is 'brought to this court by the original- defendants) who are uiow the appellants. The record is exceedingly.
'voluminous, and the facts and proceedings complicated and perplexed by a variety of details. A-general outline of the leading
facts is given in the printed opinion of the court below, with which
we have been favoured; and those facts cannot be more succinctly
stated than they are in that summary-we shall therefore avail our-,
§elves of it'upon the present occasion. It is as follows: "In the
summer of 1817, the complainant, in connection with John H. Piatt
William M. Worthington, and Gorham A. Worth, formed an association to purchase lands of the United States, at a public sale,
which was shortly to take place at Wooster, in this state-ana the
complainant was appointed the agent of the company, to attend the
.sale for that purpose.
"Another association consisting of Martin Baum, Jesse Hunt,
Jacob Burnet, William C. Schenck, William Barr, William Oliver,

JANUARY -TERM, 184.

897

'Oliver et aL. v.Piatt

and Andrew Mack, was formed for the same object-and William
Oliver and William C. Schenck were appointed its agents to attend
the sale.
"Before the sale-took place, it was discovered-that both companie- were desirous of purchasing the same tracts of land, and: the
ag(.nts agreed that they Would purchase tracts 1,-2, 3, and 4, at,
and including the mouth of Swan creek, in the United States reserv4 , at the foot of the rapids of the Miami; and also Nds. 86 and
87 onthe other side of the river, opposite ae mouth of Swan creek,
for the joint benefit of both com anies; each company to have onehalf of the lands purchased, and to pay at the same rate. Nos. 86
and 87 were bid off by Oliver, and the certificates of purchase
issued to hin. The other tracts were bid off by the complainant,
and the certificates of purchase were issued in the names of ,the
association represented by him.
"At the same sale, the complainant, in behalf of his company,
purchased the north-west quarter of section 2, township 3, the
south-west quarter of-the same seetiorr, the north-west quarter of
section 3, township 3, and also the south-east and south-west quarters of the -same section, in said reserve; and one-fourth of the
purchase money on each tract being paid, "certificates of purchase
were made out in the names of the company. And the -other
agents purchased for their company, at the same sale, other tracts
ofland.
"cOn the 'return of the agents to Cincinnati, their acts were ratified by both companies. One company was designated the Piatt
Comnpany, the other the Baum Company; and the union of both, in
regard fo the lands jointly.purchased, was called the Port Lawrence
Company. The joint, or -Port Lawrence Company, having made
their purchase with the view of laying out a town, to, be- called Port
Lawrence, appointed Baum a. trustue, and authorized him to sell
lots, and do other things in relation to his agency, for the benefit of
the company.
"On the 14th August, 1817, Baum appointed Oliver his attorney, to sell lots in the town to be laid out, receive the money, and
give certificates of sale, in the nature of title-bonds, to the purchasers; and he, in association with Wilam C. Schenk, was authiorized to lay out the town. Baum, and also the proprietors, gave
- to Oliver f letter of instructions in relation to the plan of the town,
-the sale of the lots, &c. By the conditions of, sale, one-fourth of
the purchase money was to be paid down, and the residue in three
equal annual payments.
"At the sale of lots,. the sum of $855 33 was receited by
Schenck, for which he was tc'be accountable to Baum.
"At the sale, Oliver purchased lots 223 and 224, an-undivided
half of which he afterwards conveyed to Baum, and'they.erected: a
warehouse and bther improvements 6n them.
2L

.398

SUPREME COURT.
Oliver et a].-v. Piatt.

"In August, 1818, he sold one-half of his interest in the'Port
Lawrence Company to William Steele and William Lytle; and in
March, 1819, he sold the residue of his interest to Micajah T. Williams, one of the defendants, and his partner Embre.
"By the reduction of the price of the public lands, and the pressure of the times, the Port Lawrence Company were under the necessity of relinquishing to. the United States tracts 1 and 2, having
agreed to pay for the same about $20,000; and of appropriating
the money paid on, them to the payment in full of the residue of the
tracts purchased' by them, and by the Baum and Piatt Companies
respectively.. In pursuance of this object, the five quarter-sections
purchased by the Piatt Company were assigned .to Baum, the 17th
September, 1821 ; and on the same day, tracts numbered 1, 2, 86,
and 87, purchased in the name of the Piatt Company fbr the Port
Lawrence Company; and also tracts 3 and 4; purchased by Oliver
for the same company, were assigned to Baum. It is alleged that
these tracts had been previously assigned to Baum, of which there
is no evidince.
"On the 27th September, 1821, Baum, through his agent, Micajah T. Williams, one of the defendants, relinquished, to the United
States, tracts 1 and 2. On these tracts there had been paid the
sum of $4817 55. $1372 34. of this sum were applied to com"plete the payments on tracts 3, 4, 86, and 87, the 'residue of the
tracts puirchased at the sale by the Port Lawrence Company. From
the relinquished tracts, there still remained $3445 21. Of this
sum, one-half-belonged to the Piatt Company. $1248 were applied
to complete the payment on the five quarter-sections, which left a
.balance of $474 60 still due to the Piatt Company; but which was
.applied in payment of lands held by the Baum Company. ,
"After the relinquishment of the tracts on which the town had
been laid out, the purchasers of town lots claimed a return of the
money paid by them, with interest, and also damages for their improyements.
" On the 10th September, 1822, Baum gave to OiWr a certificate, which stated there was due him, by the Port Lawrence Company, the sum of $213 02, -which lie refunded to purchasers of lots,
by the. request of thd company, 'it being the amount due cn the
shares originally owned by John H. Piatt, Robert Piatt,. G. A.
Worth, and William M. Worthington.'
"And' on the 27th August, 1823, Oliver having made out an
account against the Port Lawrence Company, for money paid by
him to purchasers of lots, and services rendered as agent, Baum
admitted his account, amounting to the sum of $1835 47; to secure the payment of which, Baum executed to him a mortgage on
tracts 3, 4, 86, and 87. The payment was to be made, with interest, on- or before the 1st of January, 1824.
"The 7th October, 1825 Oliver caused an attachment to be

JANUARY TERM, 1345.

399

Oliver.et al.t'. Piatt

issued by the clerk of Monroe county, in the.Michigan Territory,
against Baum and the members of the Pia-t-Company, on the certificate of indebtment given by Baham. This attachment was&e-ied
on four of.the five quarter-sections owned by the Piatt Company,
and such proceedings -were had on the attachment, as to obtain an
order of sale of the property attached; three of the quarters were
sold, by the auditors appointed, for the sure of $241 60, to Noble,
the agent of Oliver. Noble, shortly afterwards, conveyed these
tracts to his principal. .
"1A bill to foreclose the mortgage given to Oliver was flied by
him in the Supreme Court of Michigan, the 13th of October, 1825.
And a final decree having been obtained, the mortgaged premises
were sold, by-the assistant register of the. chancery cout, to Oliver,
the 1st September, 1828, for $618 .56.
"By the -act of 20th May, 1826, the secret'ry of the Treasury
was .authorized to select, for the bbiefit of the University of'the
Michigan Territory, a certain number of' acres of the public' lands
within the territory, and he selectedf tracts I and 2, which had been
a
relinquished.
"In th6 summer of 1828, as appears from the report of the committee of the trustees of the university, Oliver, as the agent of Baum
and other., proposed to*exchange certain lands owned b Baum, in
the vicinity of Port Lawrefice, or any of the public lands subject to
entry, for tracts 1 and 2,-on -hiec. the town of Port Lawrence bad
been laid out.
"A law of Cofigress was passed, guthorizing the exchange, the
13th January, 1830. Previous to this, Baume assigned to Oliver
-the, final certificates for tht tracts he purchased under the attachment, and also under the . decree of foreciosure; and one of-the
.qurter-sections levied oii by^the attchinent, but not sold under it,
m payment of the balance bf the judgment on the. attachment, which
enabled Oliver'to obtain patents for the samhe in-his own name.
And on his conveyng'to the university tradts numbered 3 and 4,
except ten acres reserved of number 3, and the n'orth-west quarter
6f section 2, township 3, and' also the iiorth-west 'and south-west
quarters of section 3,, township 3, he *received an assignment from
the university of their right to- tracts 1 and 2,'for which patents
were issued in the'name of Oliver.,
"After the exchange was effected, Baum, and the defendant Williams, each: p~rchased an interest of one-third in tracts I and 2, 86
and 87. After Baum's. death,- in 1832, Oliver purchased his interest from his heirs. And the 1st December, 1832, Oliver conveyed
to Williams an undivided half of the ten acres reserved in number 3..On thd 23d May,-.834, he conveyed to him an undi'ded half of
tracts 89 and 87, except sixty acres which had been' sold to Prentias
day of November, he conveyed to,
and Tromley; and 6n the him , ' one undivided half of lots I and 2, on which Port Lawrence

400

SUPREME COURT.
Oliver et al. v. Piatt

was laid out, 't6gether 'with a like interest in all sales and improvements thereunto belonging.'
"Oliver, Baum, and Williams, agreed to lay out the town of
Toledo on the site of Port Lawrence, and 'o mike titles to.the Port
Lawrence purchasers of lots, on their complying with their contracts.
"Some years after this, Oliver purchased from the Michigar
University the tracts of land hd conveyed to it in exchange foi
tracts 1 and. 2.
"Of the Piatt Company, John IL Piatt'is deceased, and hjs administrators and heirs are made parties to this suit. William M.
Worthington assigned' one-half his ipterest in the Port Lawrence
Company, and it is claimed and represented by John E.Worthing-'
t6n. The interest of Worth has been assigned to the defendant
Ewing, who also claims the entire interest of Baum, Mack, Barr,
Burnet, and half the interest of the complainant.
"Of the Baum Company, Martin Baum,-Jesse Hunt, William C.
Schenck, and:William Barr, are deceased."
'Such is a general outline of the leading facts.. There are others
which may be required to be 'adverted to in the progress of this
opinion ; but. there are many details which must necessarily be
passed over in silence, as they would tend to bmbarrass the aiscussion of the main questions in the cause, and obscure rather- than
illustrate .the merits thereof.
The object of the bill is to subject .the tracts No. 1 and No. 2,
now constituting the site of the.town of Toledo, formerly known as
Port Lawrence, to the rights of the Port Lawrence Company, composed, as we have seen, of the Piatt Company and the Baum Company, and those who, claim uinder them, now in the pbssession. of
Oliver and Williams, under a title- derived from the grant of .the
Michigan University, upon the ground that a trustdhas attadhed to
those tracts in favour of the Patt and Port Lawrence Companies,
under the circumstances which will be presently stated. These circumstances are, that the lands givei in exchange to the Michigan
University, for tracts No. 1.and No. 2, under the negotiation with
the university, were, at the time, the.property of the Piatt an d Port
Lawrence Companies, as cestuis que trust thereof; that the facts were
at the 'time well known to Baunfi, and Oliver, and Williams, and
consequently that the trust by operation of law attached thereto in
the hands of those parties. TO this, conclusion several %objections
have been taken by the. counsel for the appellants. In the first
place, that.no such trust attached to thq lands so given in exchange
'to the Michigan Ufiiveisity,-at the time of the transfer, and coiseqienly.none to tract& Nos. 1 and 2, taken in the exchange. In tiue
.second lace, that if it did, as Oliver afterwards repurchased the
exchanged lands from tb. university, and Oliver and Williams under
him now hold some parts thereof, the ttist is revived, and has re-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.
Oliver et al. v. P-iatL--

401

attached to, these lands, and-thus -has displaced any supposed trust
.upon tracts No. 1 and No. 2, at least pro tanto. In the'next place,
that Oliver and Williams are purchasers without notice of the trust,
or of any 4aisapplication of the trust property by the trustee.
Before proceeding to'the considerations applibable to the first and'
third points, it may be well to dispose of that which grows out of
the second point, as it involves a most important principle in equity
jurisprudence. It is a clearly established principle in that jurisprudence, that whenever the trustee has been guilty of a breach of the
trust, and has transferred the-propery, by sale or otherwise, to any
third person, the cestui que-tnsst-has-a-full right to follow such property into the hands of such third person, unles§"he stands in the.
.predicament of a bona fide purchaser, for a valuable consideration,
without notice. And if the trustee has invested thd trust property-,
or its proceeds, in any pther property into which it can be distinctly
traced, the cestui que trust has his eliction either to follow the'same"
into the new investment, or to hold the trustee personallyliable for
the breach of the trust. This right or ,6ption of the cestui que trust
is one which' positively and exclusively-belongsto him, and it is not
in the power of the trustee to deprive him of it by any subsequent
repurchase of the trust property, although in the latter case the
cestui que trust may, if he pleases, avail hiself of his own right,
and take back and hold the trust'Property upon the -original trust;
but he'is not c6mlpellable-zo-to -do. The reason is,.that this would,
enable the trustee to avail himself of his-own wrong; and if he had
made a profitable -'investment of*the trust fund, to appropriate the
profit to his ownibenefit, and by a repurchase, of the trust fund to
charge the loss or deterioration in value, if any such there had.been,
in the mean tfme, tW the account of the cestui que trust-whereas the
rule in equity is, that all.the gain made by the trustee,*by a wrongful
appropriation of the trust fuhd, shall go t9 the cestui que trust, and
all the losses shall be borne.by the trustee himself. The option, in
such case, to take the new or the original fund is, therefore, (as has
-been already suggeste&,) exclusively given to the catui que trust,
and is given-to huh-for the wisest purposes -nd upon the soundest
public policy. It is to 'id in'the maintenance of right and iii the
suppression of meditated wrong. Many cases on this subject will
be found collected in -the elementary writers. (See 2 Sugden on
Vendors, chap. 14, sect. , p. 148, &c., 9th edii.; 2 Story Eq. Jurisp.
sect. 1258 to mect. 1265, 3d edit.; Com. Dig. Chancer, 4W. 25, to
4W. 28;) aid the rule will be found fully discussed and recognised
in Ryall v. Ryall, 1 Atk. 59 ; Lane v. Dighton,' AmbIer, 409 ; Lench
v. Lench, 10 Ves., 511 ; and Docker v.Somes, 2 Mylne &Keen, 655;
in many of its important bearings. Lord :Ellenborough, in the case
of Taylor v. Plumer, 3 Maule & Selw. 562, examined and confirmed
the doctrine in its application to cases at law, and cited and approved
the decisions in equity; so that it is plain upon authority, and the
2 L2
VOL. 111.-51

4M

SUPREMECOURT
Oliver et al. v. PiatL

same w6uld be'equally true upon principle, that if the tracts Nos
and 2 were purchased with the trust, fund belonging to the Piatt a
Port Lawrence Coipbanies, the latter are at full liberty to follow the
same into the haud§ of any persons not being bona fide purchasers
for a valuable- consideration without notice, and the circumstance
that there has since been a repurihase of the original trust property
by Oliver, does not in any manner affect, -or control, or vary, the
right or-option of the cestuis-ue "trust. The case is not like thaf
put at the bar, where a part of the funds ofthe cestuis gue trust have
been mixed up with other funds exclusively belonging to the trustee '
in the new purchase or inveatment. In'such a case there may be
ground to 'hIl"the trust funds in charge pro tanto therein. Here,
thewhole conideration of th6 purchase was a fund wholly and exclusively belonging to the cestuis que trust, if they have made out
any title at all; which we shall hereafter consider.
Let iis then proceed to the cotisideration of the other' questions
above stated. And the firft is, Whether at the time of the exchange
-ith the Michigan Univerisityte lands given in exchange for tracts
Nos. 1 and 2, were; in the hands ofthe party, or parties makingthat
exchange, affected with any trust such as has- been already sug'gested? And this leids us to the %onsideration of the antecedent
state of facts between the parties to this record.
We have seen that the -original urchase of tracts Nos. 1, 2, 3,
aild 4, and Ns. 86 and 81, was made for the account and benefit
of-the Port Lawrence Company; and the object of -the purchase
was to lay out a town thereon, and to sell the lots to purchasefs.
Baum wasappointed a trustee. and- agent for this purpose, and he
was to-make sale of the lots and conduct the other affairs of the
agency. With the consent 'of the company, in August, 1817, he
eir.ployed Oliver as a sub-agent, wh6 received instructions from the
company in relation to-the plart of the town (whikh he wasto lay
out in conjimction-with Win. C. Schenck) and the sale of the lots.
This agency of Oliver, under Baum, was originally (as it should
seem),Aimited to- one year, bu- it- a. certainly continued, if not for
all, at least for some piurposes, to a much later period. In August,
18189; Oliver soldoDne-half of.his interest in the Port Lawrence Company to Steele pns.Lytle, arId in March, 1819, he sold the residue
to the defendant Williams, and his pa tne'rlmbre. And these facts
are most important to beborne in mind, since they clearly establish
that Oliver, as anoriginal 'prprietoi "and Williams, as a derivafive
proprietor, under Oliveri in. the'Port L rence Cdmpany, had full
and complete notice of thenaiture ark -objects of the original purchase by. that company, and of the trust and..agency of Ba m in
accomplishig t.se objecs. In truth, the laying out of a town on
those tracts 'and the sale of-the lots, seems to have been an enterprise always cherished by some of the c6mpany-with .uncommon
solicithde and sanguine expectations of profit-

IANUARY. TERM, 1845.:
Oli~ver et aL v. .Piatt.

403

In consequence of the reduction dfthe price of the public lqnds
by Congress, and the pressure of the times, die Port Lawrence
Company found themselves compelled, in 1821, to-relinquish a part.
of their tracts to the government. For this purpose they assigned
all th'e four tracts to Baum, in September, 1821 ;'and the Piatt Company at the same time assigned toBaum their five quarter-sections;
and he, through the defendant, Williams, thereupon relinquished
tracts Nos. 1 and 2, to the United States, and the return purchase
money was applied pro tanto to complete the payments due on the
other tracts, (Nos. 3 and 4 and Nos. 86 and 87,) and l.e residue
was applied partly to pay. we balance "dfe on the five .quaiter-sections, purchased by the Piatt Company, and partly to pay a balance
due on other lands purchased by the Baum Company.
Pausing here, for a moment, it is apparent that the original trust
created in.tracts Nos., and 2, under the agehcy and assignment to
Baum, for the benefit of the Port Lawrence Company, was, -by this
relinquishment to the government, entirely displaced and extinguished. Thdse tracts afterwards, in the summer of 1828, under
the act of 20th of May, 1826; were selectdd by the' secretary of the
Treasury for the Michigan University, and certainly came into the
possession of the latter discharged of the trust.- Still, however, it'
is' obvious from the papers in the cause, that in the intermediate
time between thd relinquishment of these tracts and fhe grant thereof
to the university, the original plan of establishing a town on the site, "
remained a favourite project of Baum asragent of the Port Lawrence
Company, and he made strenuous efforts by applications to Congress,
and to the General Land-office, to reacquire the title theieof, not for
himself alone, but, as his applications and letters show, on behalf
of himself and his associates. He constantly held himself out -as.
acting for the benefit of the concern; and there is every reason to
suppose, that some, if not all, of his associates were lulled into security, and contemplated, if he should be successful, to resume the
original plan. This may serv6 in some measure to -explain their
inactivity, and to show that they continued to place unlimited-confidence m Baum, that all his proceedings would be'for their benefit,
and not for his own sole advantao-e. Baum petitioned Congress on
the subject 5.s early as January, 1922, andin his letter to Mr. Brown,
(a senator in Congress,) of the 25th of Debember, 1822, enclosing
a duplicate of his petition, he says: "Enclosed is the petition
signed by myself only, still others have an interest in it;" and he
,names in the letter, and its postscript, Williams, Pliatt, and others.
In another letter to the same senator, dated the 6th of February,
1823, he says: "The trants purchased by myself and associates in
that quarter; those retained and relinquished can be ascertained in
the Land-office." In' another letter addressed to thie commissioner
of the General Land-office, as late' as the 27th of-July, 1827, he
says: "In consequence of the President's proclamation, announcing"

404

SUPREME -COURT.
Oliver-et al. v. Piatt.

the sales of lands, I attended, at Delaware, on the 9th instant, but
was much disappointed to find there instructions of the General
Land-office, to withhold from sale all lands situate north of the
line which divided. the state of Ohio and the Michigan Territory, for
I went there for the express purpose of repurchasing tracts Nos. 1
and 2, in the Maumee reservation, which I-formerly owned and
which I have relinquished." He adds-." "These lands, though
bouglt in sundry persons' names, were afterw ards transferred to me
as agent for the purpose of managing nd conveying them in case
bf -sales." In the same letter he protests against the trustees of the
Michigan University having a grant of these tracts, asithey have no
claim-to the same; and that he has a §trong claim upon the government."
To repel the inferences deducible from these facts, it is said, that
the testimony of Carneal establishes that Piatt attended that very
sale at Delaware for-the purpose of buying these tracts, not for tlhe
Port Lawrence Company, but for another company consisting of
Colston, Carneal, and"himself; and that Baum also atteinded on his
own account, and not for the Port Lawrence Company. Of transactions of this nature, after such a lapse of time, it isperhaps not
easy to ascertain all the facts which then regulated the conduct of
the parties, when they depehd upon- the frail recollections of witnesses. It is quite possible that the circunstances might have been
explained, and nothing have been intended by either party really
injurious to the interests of the Port'Lawrence Company. But as
no sale took place of these tracts upon that occasion. the only effect
which can be properly attributed to the testimony, admitting it in its
fullest latitude, is, that it weakens -our confidence in Piatt's own
conduct, and diminishes the force of the infereiiee as to Baum's then
acting as an agent for the Port Lawrence Company. But the written statements of Baum in the letters above cited are evidence of
his intentidns and acts, of a far Eigher character, which the lapse of
time has not obscured or varied, and those letters are, as to himself,
most conclusive-tg show, that he did not deem himself as acting for
his own interest alone, but for that of his associates also, in his whole
proceedings to re-acquire those tracts.
As soon as the-Michigan -University had obtained a tite to tracts
Nos. 1 and 2, (in the summer of 1828,) Oliver, avowedly on behalf,
of Baum, made an applicatioh to the trustees of that university for
an exchange of those tracts for -.ther tracts in the vicinity. These
negotiations were begun as 'early as the 12th of August, 1828, and
various propositions were made and negotiations were had by the
tristees and-Oliver, as agent of Bavm, between that time and the
4th of January, 1831, when the consent of Congress having been
obtained for the exchange, by an act approved on the i3th of January,-183O, the -university agreed to'.make the exchange; and ac7cordingly, by their deed, dated the 7th day of February, 1830, did

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

405

Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

convey their right and title to tracts Nos. 1 and 2 to Oliver in fee.
simple, in consideration of receiving a deed from Oliver of certain
tracts, containing seven hundred and sixty-seven and ahalf acres,
viz. : the whole of tracts Nos. 3 and 4, the' south-west quarter of
section 2, and the west half of section 3; the tracts being part of
the purchase of the Port Lawrence Company, and the quarter and
half sections being part of the purchase of the Piatt Company, in
1817. We thus trace the trust property home to the Michigan'University, as obtained by a conveyance from and under Baum and
Oliver in pursuance of a negotiation, avowedly made by Oliver on
behalf and as agent of Baum, as the sole consideration of the grant
of Nos. 1 and 2 to Oliver by the university.
And this conducts us to the consideration of that which is the
main hinge on which .the -present casc i ,rii that is, whether' the
tracts, so conveyed by Oliver 'to the univers'ity'Were at the time affected with the trust in favour of the Piatt and Port Lawrence Companmes, with which they were originally chargeable-in the hands of
Baum.
his necessarily involves a review 'of the title of Oliver to
tht tracts (the three quarter-sections) belonging t6 the Piatt Company i)nder the attachment proceedings Michigan,
l
and also of his
title under the mortgage of tracts Nos. 3 and 4, and Nos. 86 and
87, belonging to theort Lawrence Company, and. the foreclosure
thereof,---* connection with the subsequent acts of Baum and Oliver
in the prelnises. Unless the* title thus derived is beyond all legal
exception (omni exciptione major),as an adverse and unimpeachable
title, it is plain, that the original trust attached at the time of the
exchange to the tracts so conveyed, and consequently (as has been
already suggested) it was, at the option of the cestuis que trust, transferable and transferred to tracts Nos. 1'and 2. For it is in ourjudgment beyond all question, that Oliver at the time of the ex-.
change had full notice of the trust andexchange
title originally
invested
in
e deemed
tar
and tha hi acts in making the
Baum,
the acts of Bam, and affected by the same considerations as if perdesignd by mutual
sonally transacted by Bam himself, and were
And, first,
let. us the
consent
to promote
contemplated
objects and interests of both.
review
the proceedings
under the attachment.
Tn September, 1822, Baum gave a certificate to Oliver, stating that
a debt of $213 02 was due to him fromthe Po Lawrence Coipany
for money refunded to purchasers of lots .at the request of' The
company.
"it being the amount due on the

shares originally.owned

by John H. Piatt, Rob~ert Piatt, G. A. Worth, and Win. M. Worthingt'on." These persons constitutd the Piatt Company; arid conahssvrn213
debt 0.
on
,as
to im frmd. theo Pranc Comsequently the claim thus asserted
was a stib-division of a debt confessedly
the P~ort
Lawrence
Company,
in which
the Piatt
Companydue
hadfrom
a moiety
ofsthe
interest,only.
Whether
Baum
had,

in virtue of his general agency, the right to give such a certiuicate,
s t .
o
a t b b
o

406

SUPREME COURT.
Oliver et a]. v. Piatt.

pany alone, without their, consent, and .whether this certificate was
bona fide given un'der justifiable circumstances, it is unnecessary to
consider, although the transaction is certainly open to some observation in-point of- authority as well as propriety in the then unliquidated concerns of the Port Lawrence Company. Assuming, however, the transaction to have.b~en perfectly. correct and binding in all
respects, let us examine the subsequent proceedings consequent
thereon. Upon this -certificate Oliver, in October, 1823, instituted
a suit by attachmeft in Monroe county, in the territory of Michigan,
against Baum, Robert Piatt e G. A. Worth, and William Worthington, (John H. Piatt beinsg then deceased,) alleoing them to be joint
partnels and survivors, and all residing out o the territory-upon
which four of the quarter-sections of lartd owned by the Piatt ComAt the October term, 1826, of
ptany in that county were aached
court, judgment-was obtained by default against all the
he samra
defendants, no appearance having been entered for them; and upon
the execution issuing thereon, three of the four sections (those which
were ifterwards conveyedto the Michi.an University) were sold, and
bid off by an agent of Oliver,'and were afterwards coaveyed by him
to Oliver. Of this suit there is no pretence to say, that any of the
defendants, except Baum, had any notice, if indeed he had any,
although some of them resided in the same state where Oliver resided,'
aid one of them in a neighbouring state, ,atno great distance, who was
known to be a man.of large property. The other members of the
Port Lawrenice Company were not made parties to the suit. It was
brought in a distant territory, almost then a wilderness, more than
two hundred miles from the residence of the defendants; and if it
had been the design of Oliver to p.rocure a judgment against the parties, without any'notice to them7 which should be obligatory upon
them, and to give Oliver a good tiffe to the lands at a comparatively
trivial' price, better means could scarcely have been#devised to ac'omplish'the purpose. For the institution and consummation of this
suit behind the backs and without the knowledge of the parties in
interest, nct better excuise can now be found.than that Oliver did not
choose to institute a suit against them at home, as it might give them
offence and break up some former ties of acquaintance. How far
'suchan excuse is admissible we do not stop to inquire. It rather
tends to cast a shade upon. the transaction fhan to vindicate it:But
what was the title thu.s acquired, suppo in all the proceedings.to be
b.ona fide!? It was .amere naked title in equity to the 'tracts, the
the United States; and the legal title
title to whicb still remained in'
could not be consuminated, unless the .certificates -of the purchase
and. payidints for- the tracts were first surrendered to the United
States. Those certificates were then in the hands of Baum, as trustee of the Piatt Company.; and he had no right under the circumsta-ices- to assign or surrender those certificates to Oliver to euable
him to make his title available at law, without the. express consent

JANUARY TERM, 1845.
Oliver et al. v..Piat.

407

of the Piatt Company. If hb ilad refused, Oliver could not have
obtained them, unless upon a bill in equity to which all the proprietors should' be made parties, and in which they would have been
at full liberty to examine into the validity and merits of the original
claim of Oliver, on whiclh his attachment was founded, and also into
the regularity and bona fides of the ti-ansactions in' and under' the
suit.. Yet Bau, in December, 1828, assigned and surrendered up
these certificates to Oliver, and thus enabled him to consummate his
title and reduce it to a legal title, by obtaining a patent, without any
such consent; and in so doing he was guilty of a manifest breach
of trust, of which Oliver cannot now be permitted to pretend ignorance. It is also a fact of no small significance, that the surrender
of these certificates was contemporaneous with the surrender to Oliver of the certificates of tracts Nos. 3 and 4; and subsequently, in
December, 1829, a like surrender of Nos. 86 and 87, belonging to
the Port Lawrence Company) under'the foreclosure of the mortgage,
which we shall have occasion to review; and that all this was done
pending the negotiations with the Michigan University by Oliver on
behalf of Baum for the exchange.
This view of the matter .releases us from no small doubt and difficulty -in relation to an argument pressed at the bar with great earnestness; and that is, whether such an equity was attachable and
vendible under the attachment. law of Michigan. There is great
difficulty in maintaining the affirmative, for the reasons stated in the
opinion of the learned judge in the court below; and especially if,
as has been suggested, the act is but a transcript of an act of New
Jersey, and the courts of that state have, as has been asserted at the.
.bar, held no such equity attachable.
Then, as to the mortgage and the proceedings under it. The
mortgage was given upon tracts Nos. 3 and 4, and Nos. 86 and 87,
by Baum to Oliver, in August, 1823, upon an account then adjusted
between him and Oliver against the Port Lawrence Company (and'
which does not appear ever to have been examined or sanctioned,
by the company itself) for a balance of $1835 47, then supposed tb
be due to him for money paid and servics rendered by him as agent.
of the company. In October, 1825, a bill was filed in the Supreme
Court of Michigan (within which these tracts were situate) to foreclose
the mortgage; and such proceedings were had upon this suit, that,
in September, 1828, the tracts were sold, and at the sale bought by
Oliver for the sum of $618 56, and a deed of conveyance thereof was,
accordingly made to him. To this suit Baua.alone was made a party;
none of-the other propribtors of the Port Lawrence Company being
made parties, although Oliver knew perfectly well who they were,
and that Baum was merely their trustee, and that' they were the
cestuii ge trust, possesing the beneficial interest in the premises.
Under such circumstances, to allow the foreclosure to stand, so as to
conclude the rights of the cestuis que trust, would be a violation of

408

SUPREME COURT.
Oliver et aL v. Piatt.

all the doctrines of courts of equity upon this subject. The decree
must be treated, as to them, as wholly inoperative and void.
But there is another view of the matter, which is conclusive. The
mortgage was of a mere equity, the legal title being still outstanding
in the United States; and sipposing that this equity could have been
foreclosed in such a suit, (which, considering the defect of the real
parties in interest, it clearly could not,) still it was a naked equity,
which could be made available to obtain a legal title from the United
States, only by an assignment and surrender of the certificates of the
purchase and -payments, then held by Baum for the benefit and use
of the Port Lawrence Company. And here, again, the same considerations apply, which have been already suggested. Oliver could
not obtain an assignment and surrender of those certificates, except
by a bill in equity against Baum, to which the other proprietors in
the Port Lawrence Company must have been made parties, as they
-were necessary parties; and thus the whole merit of the mortgage and
foreclosure must have been brought directly before the court for adjudicatioi. Yet Baum, without any consultation with.or assent of those
proprietors, assigned and surrendered the certificates of those tracts
also to Oliver, and thus enabled him to obtain a patent therefor from
the United States, in subversion of their rights and his duty. This
was a gross breach of trust, and was done (let it be repeated) in December, 1828 and 1829, pending the negotiations with the Michigan
University, obviously for the purpose of enabling Oliver in his,
Baum's,-name, and on his behalf, to consummate the exchange.
And, ftnmlly, when the neg'otiation was consummated by means' of
these very certificates, Oliver, with the consent of 'Baum, was enabled to -obtain a patent therefor, on the 4th of March, 1831.
Very soon after the patent was so-obtainea, viz., on the 16th of
May, 1831, we find that Baum, Oliver, and Williams, entered into
a written agreement, by which Oliver purported to sellin fee-pimple,
to Baum and Williams, each one-third part of the tracts Nos. 1 and
2, and Nos. 86 and &7, -ith the exception of sixty acres out of No.
86; and they were to receive a quit-claim deed therefor from hiin accordingly, for the sum of $1555 for each third part.' The parties
farther agreed to lay out a town upon the cld site, with some change
of the plan, and to bring the lots into the market for sale; and they
were to contribute to the charges and expenses according to their
respective interests. After the death of Baum, Oliver purchased his
share of the tracts from his heirs; and by certain deeds of quit-claim,
executed in December, 1832, in May, 1834, and in November,
"1834, Oliver conveyed one-half of the premises to Williams.
Now, looking at these transactions together, it sems almost im-possible to escape from the conclusion, that Baum and Oliver had a
mutual interest in the negotiation with the Michigan University; that
it was not only carried on in the name of Baum, and apparently for
his account but that Oliver acted as his agent thrQughout; that the.

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

409

Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

deed from the University was made directly to Oliver, with the consent of Baum; that the assignment and surrender of all the certificates byBaum, to Oliver, was for the express purpose of enablig
Oliver to complete the bargain with the university; and that the
agreement between Baum, Oliver, and Williams, which followed almost immedia t ely upon the grant of the patent,. was made in pursuance of a prior understanding. between all the parties, and was but
a cohsummation-of the objects originally contemplated by Baum and
Oliver, from the period of their first negotiation with the University
down to the time of the execution of that agreement. And all this
was done by Baum and Oliver, without the kmowledge, or Qoiisent,
or approbation, of the Piatt and Port Lawrence Companies, and was
never sanctioned by them. Under such circumstances, what-is the
true duty of a court of equity? It is, to'hold the parties engaged in
these transactions, with full notice of the title and the trust in Baum,
bound by that trust, and to enforce that trust against the tracts Nos.
1 and 2, so far as they remain in their hands unaffected by the rights
of purchasers under them, *bonafide for a valuable consideration,without notice. In our judgment, no reasoning can make the proposition more 'clear than a simple recital of the facts, and the state-.
ment of the general doctrine of equity jurisprudence that the cestuis
que trust have an option to follow their property, or its proceeds, into
any other property'into which it has been converted by a breach of
the trust, stbject only to the rights of such purchasers as have been
just referred to. Indeed, the question, as against Baum and Oliver,
seems absolutely closed by the state of the evidence; and their intimate knowledge of the whole concern requires neither-illustration nor
commentary.
Let us, then, proceed fo the consideration of the case as to Williams. It is said that he stands inth predicament of a bonafide purchaser for a valuable consideration, without notice; and if he does,
he is certainly entitled to protection. Williams, in his answer, asserts himself to be such a purchaser, but it is difficult to maintain
that averment in its just legal sense, looking to all the circunistances
of the.case. In 1819, he ecame a purchaser of one-half of the interest of Oliver in the Port Lawrence Company, and, as such, he
could not fail to know that- tracts Nos. 1 and 2, 3 and 4, and Nos.
86 and 87, belonged to that company; and he has never ceased to
be a member -of that company. In 1821, he was employed by
Baum, the acknowledged trustee and agent of the company, to surrender tracts Nos. I and 2 to the government of the United States;
and through him the relinquishment tbok place. He says that he
did not know of the negotiation between Oliver and the University,
for an exchange of the lands, unfil after its consummation, and never
heard of the dTetails of said negotiations, nor what lands were given
in exchange, except parts of tracts Nos. 3 and 4. Now, these very
tracts belonged to the Port Lawrence Company, so that he was neVOL. IH.-52
2M

410

SUPREME COURT.
Oliver et al. v. Piatt

-cessarily-put upon the inquiry by what means Baum had parted, with
them, and Oliver had become possessed of them. Besides, in his
negotfation and surrender of tracts Nos. -1 and 2 to Ihe government,
and the apportionment of the funds arising from the*relinquished
lands, first to the'remaining lands of the Port.Lawrence Company,
and then to the lands respectively purchased by the Piatt and Baum
Companies, be necessarily became acquainted with the relative interests of all these companies therein. The origin and title of the
Michiga.n University to the tracts Nos. 1 and 2, and the exchange
thereof with Oliver, were matters of public notoriety, and proclaimed
.in the acts of Congress under which the exchange was- made. The
deed from the University to Oliver xecited the material facts respecting the lands- given in exchange, and referred to the records of the
antecedent negotiations; and the patent itself, from the government,
of tracts Nos. 1 and 2, referred to the deed of Olivei to the University, of the larids given in exchange; so that it is most manifest
that Williams, as a proprietor in the Port Lawrence Company, and
as agent, thereof in the relinquishment above referred to, and as a
purchaser under Oliver, not only hadthe mostample mezns of knqwing the-nature and character and: extent of the title of Oliver to the
'lands under consideration, but he"was positively put upon inquiry
in relation to the whole matter. If, under sudh circumstances, he
chose to remain in indolent ignorance or indifference to the .title, it
was a voluntary ignorance and indifference, whinh ought not to be
permitted. to avail him against the rights of the cestuis que trus. If
we add to this the fact that Within two months after the patent was
obtained by Oliver, he and Baum united in an agreement with Oliver, by which each was to lake a-tbiral part in the tracts Nos. 1 and 2,
and Nos. 86 and 87, (tese tracts rfver having been relinquished by
the Port Lawrence Company to the government,) to be laid-out as a
towfi, and the lots sold on joint account, it would seem almost in6redible that he should not have made some inquiries on-the subject.
And the' only reasonable conclusion setms to be, that he. was in as
full possession of all the facts as-were his partners Oliver and Baum.
Another signiificant circumstance is,. that this very agreement contained a stipulation that Oliver she'ild" give a quit-claim deed: only
for the tracts; and the subsequent deeds given by Oliver to-himaccordingly were drawn up without any covenants of warranty, except
against persons claiming under Oliver; or his heirs and assigns. -In
egal effect, therefore, they did convey no more than Oliver's right,
title, and interest, in the property; and under such circumstances,
itisdifficult to conceive how he can claim protection .as a Ibna fide
purchaser, for a valuable consideration, without notice, a ainst any
title paramofint to that of Oliver, which attached itself as an uneXtingu.shed trust to the tracts.
nd here, in our judgment, the merits'of the case would seem to
be brought to a close. , But certain objections have been.made to

JANUtTARt TERM, 1845.

411

Oliver et al. v. Piatt

the right of the plaintiff to maintain the bill upon other collateral
grounds. In the court belowan objection -was taken, by way of
plea, that the original agreement of-the Piatt and Baum'companies,
in regard to the puichases of these tracts at the -public sale in 1817,
was an illegal combination in fraud of the rights of the United States,
and therefore it makes the whole purchase'an utter - nullity. This
objection was fully answered iii the opinion of the Circuit Court, in
which, on this point,'we fully concur. It has been abandoned by
the learned counsel here ;and, indeed, in our opinion, properly
abandoned, as unmaintainable in point of fact s well as law.
Another' objection is to the lapse of time. The mere lapse of
time constitutes of itself no bar to the enforcement of a subsisting
trust; and time begins to run against a trust only from the time
when it is .openly disavowed by the trustee, who insists upon an
adverse tight and interest, which is fully and unequivocally made
known to the cestui que trust. Now, until 1831, no final 'overt act
was done by Baum in violation of his duty as trustee; and thq first
and great breach of that duty, on his part, was'the surrender of the
certificates of the tracts to Oliver at different periods.between 1828
and 1831. At what particular periodthe subsequent adts of Baum,
Oliver, and Williams i became first kriown to the plaintiff and the
other proprietors of the Piatt and Port Lawvencb companies "having
the same interest, does not distinctly appear; but the facts could
not have been fully known .or understood until within a few years
before the filing of the bill, arid-at most probably not exc'eeding
eight or ten. That period, upon admitted principles, is far too
short to interpose any positive bar to relief in equity. There may
have been. an unjustifiable delay,- and gross inattention' on the part
bf- some of the proprietors. But as against persons perfecfy conusaht of the trust it caa furnish no ground for any denial of the relief
which the case otherwise requires. :
Another objection urged at the argument is, that the bill is multifarious in uniting the 'trust- property owned- by'the Piatt Company
and thb Port Lawrence Company in bne'bill, as the interests of each.
are separate and distinct in the tracts conveyed by Oliver to the
Michigan University. We are of opinion that the bill is in no just
sense multifarious. It is true 'that if embraces the claims of both
the. companies; but their interests are so mixed .up in all thesn
transactions, that entire, justice could scarcely be done, at least not
conveniently -done, -ithout a uni6n of the. proprietors-of both companies; and if they had not been joined, the bill would have been
open to the opposite objection that all the proper parties were not
before the court, so as to enable-it to make a final and conclusive
decree touching all their interests, several as well as joint.. It w'as
well observed by Lord .Cottenham in Campbell v'. Mackay, 1 Mylne
& Craig, 603, .and the same doctrine was affirmed in this court
in Gain&s'and wife v. Relf and- Chew, 2 How. 619, 642, that it 'is

412

SUPREME COURT.
Oliver et al. v. Piatt.

.. ipracticable to lay down any rule, as to what constitutes multifariousness, as. an abstract proposition; that each case must depend
upon, its own circumstances;- and much must 'necessarily be left,
where the authorities leave itto the sound discretion of the court.(a)
But, if the objection were tenable, (as.We are of opinion it is not,)
it would be quite too late to insist upon it. The objection of multifariofshess cannot, as a mrntter of right, be taken by the parties,
except by demurrer, or plea or answer; and if not so taken, it is
deemed to be waived. It cannot be insisted upon by the parties
even at the hearing in the court below,.although it may at any time
be taken by the court sua sponte, wherever it is deemed by the court
to-be necessary or proper to assist it in the due administration of
justice. And at so late a.period as the hearing, so reluctant is the
court to countenance the objection, that, if it can get on in the
cause to a final decree without serious embarrassment, it wil do so,
disragarding the fault or error, when it has been acquiesced in by
the parties up to that time. A! fortio'i an appellate -court wovld
scarcely entertain the 'objection, if it Was not forced upon it by a
moral necessity. There is no-pretence to say, that such is the predicament of the present 'ause in this court.
Another objection taken at the argument is, that Baum's heirs cannot insist upoif any title to the property in question, because they
are bound by the warranty of their ancestor in the conveyance
thereof to Oliver. But this objection has no foundation whatsoever
in law, whether the warranty be lineal or collateral; for the heirs
here do not claim any title to the property by descent,-but. simply
-by purchase; and it is only to cases of descent that the doctrine
of warranty applies. .For this it is sufficient to cite Litt. sect. 735;
Co. Litt. 365 ; Com. Dig. Guaranty, 1. 2; and Bac. Abridgment,
Warranty, G, H, I, L. The fact, therefore, that assets descended
upon Mary P. Ewing, one of the children and heirs of Baum, can
have no -influence upon the right of her husband or -herself to enter
the land in controversy by purchase, however it might repel their
right to take it by descent.
Another objection suggested at the argument was the .difficulty of
apportioning the respecdiv? interests of the cestuis que tnt-st in the
tracts Nos. 1 -and 2. But this difficulty Has been overcome; and it
constitutes no matter of difference between the Piatt and the Port
Lawrence Companies, so far ai their own interests are concerned, as
distinguished from that of Oliver and Williams.
As to the report of tle master and the exceptions thereto in the
court below, although-those exceptions were not formally overruled
'or allowed; yet it is plain thatin the final decree they were all disposed of, some being allowed-and others disallowed; and no argu(a) See also Story Eq. Plead. sect. 530 to- sect. 540, an4 the authorities tbhre
cited. Attdrney-General v. Cradock, 3 Mylne & Craig, 85.

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

413

Washington Bridge Co. v. Stewart et aL

ment has been addressed to us upon the present occasion, which
points out any specific errors, which require correction beyond those
which have been already incidentally hinted at:
We pass over some other objections, which were'suggested at
the argument, without remark, as this opinion has already' been
protracted to an unusual length. We need only say, that we see
nothing in those objections which requires us to, reform the decree
of the court below.
Upon the whole, the decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed, with
costs.'

WASHINGTON BRIDGE COMPANY, APPELLA'T, V. WILLIAM STEWART,
JAMES STEWART, AND JOHN GLENN.
After a case has been decided upon its merits, and remanded to the court below,
-if it is again brought up on a second appeal, it is then too late to allege that
the court had not jurisdiction to try the first appeal.
The Supreme Court has no power to review its decisions, whether in a case at
law or in equity. A final decree in chancery is as conclusive as a judgment
at Jaw.
An affirmance by a divided court, either upon a writ of error or appeal, is canclus;ve upon the rights of the parties.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States,
for the District of Columbia, held in and for the county, of Washington, sitting as a court of equity.
The same case was before the court at January term, 1840, and
the decree of the court below affirmed by the Supreme Court, but
in consequence of the court being equally divided, I-o opinion was
given, and no report of the case published. It now came up on an
allegation that it was improperly brought up before, as the decree,
from which tht appeal was taken, was said not to be a final decree.
The case was this:
The Washington Bridge Company were the owners of a bridge
across the Potomac river, under a charter granted in 1808. In
February, 1831, a large part of the bridge was broken up and carried away by the ice and flood; and in April, the president and
directors called for an instalment of ten dollars per share from the
stoclholders, for the purpose of repairing it. The defendants in
error did not pay, and their shares were forfeited on the 21st of
June, 1832, under the 8th section of the charter.
On the 14th of July, 1832, Congress passed ai act to purchase
the bridge, and appropriated$20,Q09 for that'purpose, which they
directed to be divided amongst the stockholders in the manner
therein pointed out.
In May, 1833, he defendants in error filed a bill in the Circuit
2M2

