JANUARY TERM, 1845.

413

Washington Bridge Co. v. Stewart et aL

ment has been addressed to us upon the present occasion, which
points out any specific errors, which require correction beyond those
which have been already incidentally hinted at:
We pass over some other objections, which were'suggested at
the argument, without remark, as this opinion has already' been
protracted to an unusual length. We need only say, that we see
nothing in those objections which requires us to, reform the decree
of the court below.
Upon the whole, the decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed, with
costs.'

WASHINGTON BRIDGE COMPANY, APPELLA'T, V. WILLIAM STEWART,
JAMES STEWART, AND JOHN GLENN.
After a case has been decided upon its merits, and remanded to the court below,
-if it is again brought up on a second appeal, it is then too late to allege that
the court had not jurisdiction to try the first appeal.
The Supreme Court has no power to review its decisions, whether in a case at
law or in equity. A final decree in chancery is as conclusive as a judgment
at Jaw.
An affirmance by a divided court, either upon a writ of error or appeal, is canclus;ve upon the rights of the parties.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States,
for the District of Columbia, held in and for the county, of Washington, sitting as a court of equity.
The same case was before the court at January term, 1840, and
the decree of the court below affirmed by the Supreme Court, but
in consequence of the court being equally divided, I-o opinion was
given, and no report of the case published. It now came up on an
allegation that it was improperly brought up before, as the decree,
from which tht appeal was taken, was said not to be a final decree.
The case was this:
The Washington Bridge Company were the owners of a bridge
across the Potomac river, under a charter granted in 1808. In
February, 1831, a large part of the bridge was broken up and carried away by the ice and flood; and in April, the president and
directors called for an instalment of ten dollars per share from the
stoclholders, for the purpose of repairing it. The defendants in
error did not pay, and their shares were forfeited on the 21st of
June, 1832, under the 8th section of the charter.
On the 14th of July, 1832, Congress passed ai act to purchase
the bridge, and appropriated$20,Q09 for that'purpose, which they
directed to be divided amongst the stockholders in the manner
therein pointed out.
In May, 1833, he defendants in error filed a bill in the Circuit
2M2

414

SUPREME COURT.
Washington Bridge- Co, v. Stewart et al.

Court, claiming to be stockholders, and, as such, to be entitled. to
a distributive share of the purchase money. The bridge company
resisted the claim on the ground that their shares had been forfeited,
and in November, 1838, the cause'came on for hearing on the bill,
.answers, exhibits, depositions, and general replication, when the
court mqde the following deciee:
"This cause having been set for hearing upon the bill, answer,
general replication, exhibits, and evidence, and coming. on to be
heard and aiued by counsel, it is, on this twenty-ninth day of
-November, in the year eighteen hundred and thirty-eight, after full
consideration, ordered, decreed, and adjudged, that the rights and
interests of the complainants, and the other stockholders in said bill
of complaint mentioned;' and who have come in, -or may'come in,
-before the final determination of this cause, and procure themselves
to be made parties to these proceedings, have not been, and were
not, forfeited under and by-virtue of the proceedings of said bridge.
company, stated and set forth in the said answer, -and exhibits, and
evidence,. but that the same remain in full. force' and virtue, and that
the said parties are. respectively entitled to their proportion of the
sum of $20,000, mentioned and stated in said bill of complaint as"
sto'ckholders in- said company; and that, in order to -fix and adjust
the said proportions or-shares of said parties, there be first deducted
the sum of $10,561 55, mentioned in said answer, being the sum
advanced by certain stockholders, as therein mentioned, with interest
thereon from the time the same was advanced t6 the time of the
receipt of the said $20,000, being an average of nine months, for
'which said intereA is to be calculated; also the sum of $568 25,
being the amount of unclaimed dividends expended on the said
bridge, with interest thereon frtm the time of said expenditure to
the receipt of said $20,000, and that subjqct to gu6h deductions;
and, after the same shall have been made, the said coriplainantd are.
respectively entitled to, and shall 'receive, their full phare and 'proportion of the interest on the same, which shall have been earned
and made of the said sums so due.to them respectively pending this
suit, under the investment, made thereof by complainants.
"And' it is. ordered, that other items claimed to be deducted be
rejected; no evidence -having been. offered.to show their character or
their amount:"
"rAnd it is further ordered,'that the case be referred to the, auditor, to state an account in confoxmity with the principles laid. down
in thisdecree.""
. From this-decree the bridge company prayed in appeMl to the
Supreme eourt,'where)- a -as already been statedi, it was affirmed
by a divided court.
fn April, 184Q, the case was referred by the Circuit 'Court to the
auditor, who made the followingreport in'November; 1841 .:
"1The undersigned auditor, to whom was referred the papers in

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

415

Washington Bridge Co. v. Stewart et al.

this cause orv the 29th of April, 1840, has had the same tinder examination, and, after a full consideration of the same, begs leave to
make the following report: That te amount of'funds in the. hands
of Frederick May, president and treasurer of the Washington Bridge
Company, including interest on corporation stock received and to
be received, on the 30th June, 1841,. is $22,221 52. That the
amount refunded the stockholders of fifteen hundred and nineteen
shares, which they had advanced towards.repairing the bridge, with
interest thereon according to the decree; the amount of unclaimed
dividends which had b'een expended for said repair, and also directed to be refunded with interest for nine months; for debt due
from the bridge company, including costs of suit; the trustee's commission, auditor's bill, &c.; and the payment to said fifteen hundred
and nineteen shareholders of ten per cent. upon the cost of their
stock, as per statement herewith submitted, amount to $18,991 11,
leaving a balance in the trustee's hands of $3,222 41.
11 That the holders of the four hundred and seventy-three shares,
which were deemed by the company to have been forfeited, (but
which the court decided were not forfeited,) according to the cost
of the same, amount to $20,749 11, ten per cent. on the same
(being the dividend paid to the first-mentioned stockholders) amounts
to $2,074 91, as per statement B herewith, leaving a balance, after
paying*said amount, in the hands of the trustee of $1,147 60.
"In ascertaining the cost of the shares to the present -claimants,
the auditor has-taken pains, as far as possible, to ascertain the same.
The principal claimants are John Glenn and the Messrs. -Stewarts.
In the case of Mr. Glenn, he states on oath, that the stock belongs"
to the estate of Robert Barry, and is held by him as trustee or administrator. Barry was an original subscriber. In the case of the
Stewarts, they claim as having obtained it from D. Stewart's estate
in the course of distribution, not as-purchaser. D. Stewart was -an
original subscriber. In all other cases, the scale furnished from the
president of the company of the current price of the stock at the
periods-of transfer, have been the sold guide by which to fix the
value. Several of. the stockholders on the list are known to be
dead, and it is not known to the auditor who their representatives
are; but in. making a distribution of this fund, their rights ought to
be preserved, and their fair dividend paid when demanded.
"Doctor May, the'trustee, claiffs $1,000 for his commission on
the money received- from the Treasury, $20,000, for the sale of the
bridge. The charge has been objected-to by some of the claimants,
and the auditor has reduced it to $500 ; if he has erred in this, the
court can correct it.
"The amount of the, unclaimed dividends used for -repairing the
bridge, $568 25, and nine months interest thereon, $25 57, making
$593 82, has been in part paid, but a very considerable part, in all
probability, never will be called for, as many of the persons who

416

SUPREME COURT.
Washington Bridge Co. v. S.te-wart et a].

were entitled- to it are dead, and some insolvent; their representatives knowing nothing of the small amount so many years due.
The complaiuants, however, in the present cause, have no claim on
the unclaimed money due to others.
1"As regards the disposition to be. made of the balance which
will remain in the 'hands of the trustee, ($1147 50,) after paying
the stockholders tei per.cent., the auditor begs reference to his remarks on the general statement herewith.
S~ubmitted by
"JosEPHFoptnEST, Auio.

Whereupon the court made the following decree in the premises:
.."The report of-the auditor in this case having been filed, together
with the accompanying, statements by him made, and constituting
part of the same, and being fully considered by the court, it is, this
fQurth day of June, eighteen hundred and forty-two, ordered and
decreea, that the same be, and it is in all respects confirmed. And
the said cause coming on. for final hearing upon the bill, answer,
replication, exhibits, evidence, report of auditor, &c., and being
maturely considered, it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed,
that the complainants are entitled to the relief prayed, in conformity.
with the report of said auditor as aforsaid, and that the relief be
extended to the other stockholders in said company in the propor(ions and for the sums mentioned in the statement by the auditor of
the stockholders in said company who have not participated in thedividends .of said bridge company. And it is further ordered afid"
deoreed, that.the said defendants pay over to said parties respectively, or to their solicitors on record, the said sum so due to them respectively, in conformity with said report and statement and of this
decree' together with the costs of this suit to be taxed by the clerk,
including the costs of the Supreme Court, on or before the first day
of July, 1842, and file with said clerk, on or before said first diy
of July, 3842,- a statement of said payments so made.
"By 6rder of the court."
From this decree- the bridge company appealed to the Supreme
Court.
Bradley, for the appellants.
Coxe, for the appellees.
Bradley referred to the record to show, that the decree first appealed from was an interlocutory, and not a final decree, and that
the Supreme Court had not jurisdiction in such a case. He then
proceeded thus:
T7he appellants are not estopped from denying the jurisdiction of
the Supreme Court to which- they appealed in that cause, as the
-want of jurisdiction is apparent in the record. . See Wilson v. Hobday, 4 M. & S. 120.
-

JANUARY TERM, I845.

417

Washington Bridge Co. v. Stewart et al.

That was debt on a replevin-bond given by the defendant to
the Mayor of Canterbury, and the breach assigned was, that the defendant did not appear and prosecute his replevin in the Mayor's
Court. The defendant demurred, to the declaration, and, among
other things, assio'ne. as cause of demurrer, that it did not appear
upon the Neclartion that the mayor had jurisdiction to grant replevins, and to take bond, &c..
The court was of opinion that it did sufficiently appear, that the
mayor primafaciehad jurisdiction, and upon that ground only overruled the demurrer; whereas if they had been of opinion that the
defendant was estopped to deny the jurisdiction, because he had resorted. to that court for relief, they would havi decided the case
upon that ground rather than on the doubtful ground, that the mayor
had jurisdiction and which they took great pains to support.
See also Ketland v. The Cassius, 2 Dallas, 368. "The court is
bound to take notice of a question of jurisdiction whenever it may
occur, and however it may be proposed; forif we are satisfied that
we have not legal cognisance of any cause, or in terms less direct,
if we are not satisfied that we have cognisance, we ,ught not to
prceed to a -decision or an investigation upon its merits." Per
Wilson, J.
3l.
A plaintiff may assign for error the want of jurisdiction in that.
court to which M had chosen to resort. 'It is the -duty of the court
to see flhat they have juirisdiction, for the consent of-parties cannot
give it; and if they decide a case of *hich'thgy have no jurisdiction, it is the error of the court. The decision is void because
coram nonjudice. Capron v. Van Noorden, 2 Cranch, 126.
Crow v. Edvfards, Hobart, 5. "Consent of parties cannot change
the law:' &fottori,caiinot give jurisdiction.
"The courts of the United- States are all'of limited jurisdiction,
and, their proceedings are erroneous, if the jurisdiction be-not shown
uion them ;" but qwuare, whether judgments in such cases are absolute nullities, which, may be totally disregarded ? For,"it does
not follow that the court had not jurisdiction, because all the circumstances necessary to give- jurisdiction do not appearn the pro-,
ceedings. It is error,- however, not to state them ; and the judgment may, therefore, be-reversed. - But. if it does appear upon ihe
-proceedings that the court-had notjurisdiction, the judgment is an"
.absolute nullity, and. !nay be totally" disregarded.', See Kempe's
Lebsee v. Kennedy; 5 Cranch, 185; The Life Insurance Company
v. Adams, 9'Peters, 602, before cited; Decatur v. Paulding,. 14Peters, appendix, 609, and Skillern's Ex. ?. May's Ex., 6 Crach,
268, in-whichthe Supreme Court decided, that s the merits of the
cause had been finally-decided in that court, and -its mandate' reuired only the execution. of its decree, the Circuit -'Court was
bound -tocarry that decree into execution, although the jurisdiction
of that court Was not alleged in the pleadings.
- VoL. 1lI.-53

SUPREME COURT.

418
-

Washington Bridge. Co. v. Stewart et al.

Letters of administration, granted while there is a qualified executor capable of acting, are absolutely void. Griffith v. Frazier,
8 Cranch, 26.
-Inthe case.of Houston v. Moore, 3 Wheat. 433, the court said,
that the jtirisdiction of the Supreme Court under the 25th section of
te Judiciary Act of 1789 extends 'only to a fifial judgment or decree ; and that a judgment reversing that of an inferior court, and
awarding a venire de novo, is not a'final judgment; and in kartin v.
Hunter, 1 Wheat. 355, that a decree affirming an interlocutory dec.ree is not a final decree; and in Weston v. City of Charleston,
2 Peters, 454, that a final judgment is that which determines the
particular cauie: if need not finall decide upon the rights litigated;
and-in Rutherford v. Fisher, 4 Dallas, 22, that a decree, overruling
'in equitya plea of limitations, and-ordering the defendant to answer,
is not 9 final judgment;. and Chase, J., said, that "in England a
wfit of error may be brought upon an interlocutory decree or order';
but here the words of the act allow it only in the case of a final
judgment." In Young v. -Grundy, 6 Cranch, .51, the Supreme
Court said, n6 appeal or writ of error will lie to an interlocutory decree dissolving an injunction-the same in Gibbons & Ogden,
6 Wheat. 448; and in The Palmyra, 10 Wheat. 502, a decree for
restitution, with costs and damages, before the court had acted upon
the report of the Commissioner as to the damages, was held not to
be a final decree.
In Owen v. Hurd, 2 T. R. 643,.644, 'it appeared that. the court
had no jurisdiction, because the arbitration had not been made a
rule Qf court. The parties agreed. to waive the objection and o
into the merits, but Lord Kenyon, C. J., said, 1" tat could not be
done; for the court were bound to take notice that they had no
jurisdiction; and.-le remembered an instance, many years ago,
when, there being no title to the affidavits in the cause, the court
said. they could not take.any notice of them, eventhough the counsel on the other side. did npt wish .to take the'objection." - See
Bingham v. Cabot et al., 3 Dallas, 32, note. In Ross v. Triplett,
3 Wheat.- 600, the Supreme Court said, that its jurisdiction extends
only to final judgments and decrees of the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia, not to cases where the opinion of the judges of
that court were divided.
In the case of The Aby, '1Mason, 363, 364, Mr. Justice Story
said, "It cannot be admitted, that any party'can first affrm.the jurisdiction by taking the property on bil, and 'then turn round and
deny the same jurisdiction,'-when the court can no longer administer
effectualxelief to the interests ofpther persons. The party is estop
ped by hi..own acts from such a proceeding. A plea to the'ments
is an admission that' the jurisdiction of the court is well foided,
and a decree upon those merits cannot afterwards be arrdsted, unless
the defect ofjurisdiction be apparent on the face of the record."

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

419

W.ashington .Bridge Co. v. 'Stewart et al.

But if. the defect of jurisdiction be already apparent on the fave
of the record, and there is no necessity to intrbduce into the record
any fact to show the want of jurisdiction, the party is not-estopped
from ayailing himself of such defeet and the court is as m.uch bound
to take notice of it as if it had been pleaded.
So "cWhere
in Fishera v.
Harnden,1
Paine,it 58,
Justice
Livingston"
every
to decide
has Mr.
"aright
has jurisdiction,
court
said,
cordecisionbe
its
question that occurs in the cause; and, whether
bidconsidered
as
is
judgment, until reversed,
rect or otherwise, itswithout
athority, its judgments are considered
ing. But if it act
na nullities, and form no bar tOa recovery, which may be sought i.m
opposition to them, even prior to a reversal
If, then, the judgment of Jhis court, thus technically affirming'th
interlocutory decree of the Circuit Court, is a mere nullity, as we
the cause now come before this court'for the first time
think it is,
upon its real merits, and the counsel for the original defendants,
now appellants, respectfdlly submit the following argidmerit.
(The argument of Mr. Bradley upon the .merits ofthe case is
omitted, because the decision of the.court turned upon the precedo
ing point.)
for appellees.
Coxe,case,
originated in a bill in equity filed y the appellees, on
This
behalf of themselves and others in the Circuit Court for the countyof Washington, in May, 1833.
After a tedious prosecution of the cause, a decree was rendered
chief. judge,
Court.
thecase,
Ciropuit
1838, inbythe
in
November
did
defendants,
of theThe
as one
interested
beingterm,
Crunch,
made by the
was
the'decree
consequently,
and,
not sit in the cause,
otherthe
judges.
of the
concurring
opinions
defendants, new-the appelbeentwomade;
haviofg
The decree
the Supreme Court, and, in January
lants, prayed n appealof to
term, 1840, the decree the Circuit Court was affirmed with costs.
Court directed to the Circuit'Court,
The mandate from the Supreme
commanding that such execution and proceedis be had. in the
andthe .la of the
or,
said case,
United States ought to be had, was filed oxi the 8d April, 184I0.
The case was referred to the auditor to sttife an account in conformity fith the principles laid down in the decree. The auditor
made his report in November term, 1841. To this report no exa accordingly, in conceptions were taken by either party, d it was
foriity with the practice of the Circuit Court. confirmed 4th June,
1842.
ppeal,, and us the-case
Fromhin decree the defendants a
w
no for the second time brought up for decision.
It will be observed by the court that the argument submitted- on
behalf of thd appellants, presents no objection to any proceeding or

420

SUPREME COURT.
Washington Bridge Co. v. Stewar.t et al.

action of the Circuit Court subsequent to the former decree of.this
court. It contains no objection to the report of the- auditor; no
allegation that it was not in precise accordance with the mandate of
this court issited in January, 1840.
The argument now addressed to. the court on the part of the appellants seeks to establish three positions:
1. That the former decree, having been made by a divided court,
is not to be regarded as an adjudication of the rights of the parties.
2. That inasmuch as -urther proceedings were necessary to carry
out that decree, the decree of the Circuit Court then. appealed from
was not final, and consequently the Supreme Court had no jurisdiction of the case, and all-its proceedings, being coram nonjudice, are
null and void.
3. That the real merits of the case being open now for the first
time, this court will re-examine those merits, and decree in opposition to its former judgment.
These questions have an importance far beyond the interests involved in this particular case.
1. The :question is, not what is to be recognised here or elsewhere as the authority of a decision of the Supreme Court when the
judges wete equally divided, in case such decision should be cited
as an authoritative adjudication of principles. It is, however, insisted that -this case was decided-that it passed into rem judicatam.
-The law is perfectly well settled that when this court is equally
divided in opinion upon a writ of error, the judgment of the infrior
court is affirmed. Etting v. Bank of United States, 11 Wheat. 69.
The judgment has the same force and effect, in -every particular as
if it had passed by the unanimous opinioi of the court.
2. The decree of the Circuit Court upon which the decree of
affirmance passed, not being a final judgment, this court had no
juiisdiction.
This ground of objection is not entitled to much favour from this
court. The now appellant was' then the appellant. He invoked
the jurisdiction of this court, and, having been unsuccessful in his
application, now denies the validity of his own acts, disclaims'a
jurisdiction which he himself sought, and denies the authorit.y of
the court into which he'himself compelled his antagonist to meet
him.
But the answer to this objection is twofold:
1.. The question is not now open whether or not this court had
jurisdiction of the former case; nor has this court now jurisdiction
to examine its own judgment passed four years since, and io reverse it for any cause of error. Skillem's Ex'ors v. May's Ex'ors,
6 Cranch, 267.
The question certified fron! the Circuit Court of Kentucky to the
Superior Court for its decision, was -whether the cause could- be
dismissed from the Circuit Court for want of jurisdidtiozi after the

SANUARY TERM, 1845.

421

Washington Bridge Co. v. Stewart et aL

case had been removed by writ of error to the Supreme Court, and
that court had acted upon it and remanded the cause to the Circuit
Court for further proceedings; It-was held that the objection came
too late.
It is manifest that if the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of the
case, that the only question over which this court could exercise
authority was the single one of jurisdiction. When, therefore, it
was held that it was too late to question the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, fortiori it was too late to question that of-the Supreme
Court.
The ground of objection now urged existed when the case was
formerly before the Supreme Court. It might then have been
urged. If not noticed by counsel, it was competent for the court
ex mero ,motu to take cogunisance of it,'and to dismiss it for that
cause. In adjudicating upon the merits of the 6ase, this court has,
by necessary implication,'asserted its jurisdiction. It is alleged that
the judgment was not final. This point was flly argued in McDonough v. Millaudon, at the present term. The whole'law of the
case was settled; nothing remained but the ministerial duty of stating the account, which is in the nature rather of an execution to
carry out the decree.
If there be error in this, how can this error now he rectified ? It
will hardly be contended that this cah be assimilated to some which
have been cited, and that the judgment rendered in 1840 was coram
9tnjudice, and consequently an absolute nullity.
In Kempe's Lessee v. Kennedy, 5 Cranch, 185, this court held
that such was not the case in regard to the courts of the United
States. If jurisdiction does not appear on the face of their proceedings, their judgments are erroneous an I riversible, but they
cannot be considered as nullities which may be totally disregarded.. In this aspect of the case, the present appeal, although nominally
and in form an appeal from a decree of the Grcuit Court rendered
in June, 1842, is substantially an appeal from a decree of this court
rendered in January, 1840.
It is contended upon this point, 1. That there is no mode pointed out by law in which an"erroneous judgment of this court can be reviewed and reversed either in
this or any other court.
2. That upon this appeal nothing is before this court but the
proceedings of the Circuit Court upon and subsequent to the mandate.
Both of these points have been conclusively settled by a series
of adjudications:
Himely v. Rose, 5 Cranch, 316. This cause .came up a second
time by an appeal, and the chief justice declared that nothing was
before the court except what was subsequent to the mandate. In
316, in delivering the opinion of the court, he .again says, "A de2N

422

SUPRhEME COURT.
Washington Bridge Co. v. Stewart et al.

cree having been formerly rendered in this causc, the court is now
"to determine whether the decree has been executed ecording to
its true intent and meaning."
Martin v. Hunters Lessee, 1 Wheat. 364. This case was brought
before the Supreme Court.on a writ of error upon proceedings subsequent to the mandate formerly awarded, and the error assigned
wag in the judgment of the court of appeals of Virginia, N*hich had
solemnly decided, that the Supreme Court did not possess the appellate jurisdiction which it had exercised in r~ndering the former
judgriaent. The points of difference which distinguish that case
from the one at bar are, Tst, that in Martin v. Hunter, the court below had adjudged that this court had no jurisdiction, and. therefore
its proceedings were coram non judice; here the Circuit Court has
without hesitation recognised the authority of this court, and as in
duty .bound 6xecuted its. mandate. 2d. In Martin v. Hunter, the
objection was made by a state court jealous of its righfs and powers,
and by parties brought unwillingly 'before the federal tribunal;
here it -is the suggestion of the very party who voluntarily invoked
-the'appellate jurisdiction of this court. 3d. In that case the judgment of the iiiferior court embodied and asserted the defect of
jurisdiction, and it was that judgment which was to be reviewed;
ithis. case it is sought to give to this appeal the-force and effect
of an appeal directly from the decree of the Supreme Court itself.
In p. 355, the court says,." To this argument several answers
may be given. In the first place; it is not admitted that upon this
writ of eiror the former record is before us." "In the next place,
in. ordinary cases a second writ of error has never been supposed to
draw in question the propriety of the first judgment, and it is difficult tq perceive how such a proceeding.could be sustained upon
principle.-. A final judgment of this court is supposed to be conelusive upon the rights which it decides, and no statute has provided any process by which this court can revise its qwn judgments.
In several cases which have been formerly adjudged in this court,
the same point was argued by counsel and expressly overruled. It
was solemnly held that a final judgment of this courtwas conclusive upon the parties and could not be re-examined. Browder v.
McArthur, 7 Wyheat," 58.
On an appeal, after a mandate, counsel -applied for a rehearing of
the original case. The court refused to allow it, being of opinion
that it was too late to grant a rehearing after' the cause had been remitted to the court below, &c.; and that a subsequent appeal from
the Circuit Court for supposed errpr in carrying into effect such mandate, brought up only the. proceedings subsequent to the mandate,
and did not' authorize an inquiry into the merits of the original de;
cree. The Santa Maria, 10 Wheat. 442.
Himely and Rose is affirmed, and it is said that the orignal pro6eedings are before the court on the second appeal only for the pu'r-

JANUARY TERM,1845.

423

Washingtoik Bridge Co. v. Stewart et aL

pose of enabling it to see and adjudge any new points which were
not terminated %y the. original decree. Ex parte Sibbald, 12 Peters, 492.
We think proper to state .our settled opinion-of the course which
is prescribed by the law for this court to take, -after its final action
upon a case brought within its appellate jurisdiction, as-well as that
which the court whose final decree or judgment has been thus verified ought to take. Appellate power is exercised over the proceedings of iferior courts, not on those of the appellate court. The.Sua
preme Court have no power to review their decisions, whether in a
case at law or equity. A final decree in chancery is as conclusive
as a judgment at law. Both are conclusive on the rights of the parties thereby adjudicated.
No principle is better settled, or of more universal application,
than that no court can reverse or annul its own final decrees or judgments, for errors of fact or law, after the term in which they have
been rendered, except for clerical mistakes, or to reinstate a cause
dismissed by mistake ; -from which it follows, tiat no change or mo-"
dification can be made which can vary or affect it in any material
thino,.
When the Supreme Court have executed their power in a cause
before them, and their final decree or judgment requires some farther act to be done, it cannot issue an execution, but, shall send a
special mandate to the couft below to award it. Whatever was before the court, and is disposed'of, is considered as finally settled.
The inferior court is bound by the decree, as the law of the case,
and must carry it into execution according to the mandate. They
cannot vary it, or examine it for any other purpose than execution;
or give any other or farther relief; or review it upon any matter decided on appeal, for error apparent; or intermeddle with it, farther
than to settle so much as has been remanded. .After a mandate, no
rehearing will be granted. It is never done in the House of Lords;
and on a subsequent appeal nothing is brought up but the proceedings subsequent to the mandate.' After this distinct exposition ofthe law by the Supreme Court, it would be a work of supereroation for me to vindicate'it from-the 6harge of 'usurping a jurisdiction
not vested in it by law, or to establish the correctness of a judgment
which this high tribunal has rendered. Should. this be deeined important, I proffer myself ready, to show that the former decree of the
Circuit Oburt was a final decree, within the meaning of the judicial
act and the practice of this court; and that the .decree, as well as
that affirming it, was right.
No exceltion having been taken to the .report of the auditor, and
no error being assigned in that or in. the final decree, it is submitted
that the case is within the 17th rule of the court, and that the decree
of the Circuit should be -afirmed, with ten per cent. damages.

494'

SUPREME COURT.
Washington Bridge Co. v.-Stewart'et al.

Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion bf the court.
This cause is now before us upon an appeal from a decree of the
Circuit Court, made by it upon an auditor's report, in conformity
with the mandate issued by this court, when the cause was before it
upon a former occasion.
The appellants did not except to the auditor's report, in the court
below. When the cause was tried upon
the first
appeal, the decree
court.
of the Circuit Court was affirmed by a divided
We are now asked by the counsel.for the appellants to permit him
to re-examine the decree of the - Circuit Court, upon its merits, affirmed as it was by the Supreme Court, upon the ground that the affirmance 'as made when this court had not jurisdiction of the case;
the first appeal having been taken upon what has since been discovered to have been an interlocutory and not a final decree.
The Supreme Court certainly has only appellate jurisdiction, where
the judgment pr decree of the inferior court is final. But it does not
follow, when it renders a decree, upon an interlocutory and not a final
decree, that it can, or ought, on an appeal from a decree in the same
cause, which is final, examine into its jurisdiction upon the former
occasion. The cause is not brought here iit such a case for any
such purpose. It was an exception, of which advantage might have
been taken by motion on the first appeal. The appeal would then
have been dismissed for the want of jurisdiction, and the cause would
have been sent back to the Circuit Court for farther proceedings.
But the exception not having'been then made of the alleged want of:
jurisdiction, the cause was argued upon its merits, andthe decree
appealed from was affirmed by this court. Its having been affirmed
by a divided court, can make no difference as to the conclusiveness
of the affirmance iupon the rights of the parties. It i's settled, that
when this court is equally divided upon a writ of error or appeal,
the judgment of the court below stands affirmed. Etting v. Bank
of the United States, 11 Wheat. 59; the case of the Antelope,
10 Wheat. 66. Having passed upon the merits of the decree, this
court has now nothing before it but the proceedings subsequent to
its mandate. So this court said, in Himely and Rose,, and in the
case of the Santa Maria, 5 Cranch, 3.14; -10 Wheat. 431. Its
decree became a matter of record in the highest court in which the
cause could be finally tried. To permit afterwards, upon an appeal
from proceedings upon its mndate, a suggestion of the want of
jurisdiction in this court, upon the first appeal, as a sufficient cause
foi re-examining the judgment then given, -would certainly be a novelty in the practice of.a court of equity. The want of jurisdiction
is a matter of abatement, and that is not capable of being shown for
error to endorse a decree upon a bill of review. Shall the appellant be allowed to do more now, than would be permitted on a bill
of review, if this court had the power to grant him.such a remedy?
If he was, we should then have a mode for the review of the decrees

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

425

Washington Bridge Co. v. Stewa'rt et-al.

of this court, which have become matters of record, which could not
.be allowed as an assignment of error for a bill of review, in any of
those courts of the United States in which that proceeding is the
ordinary And appropriate remedy.
The application has been treated in this way, to show how much
at variance it is with the established practice of couits of equity.
It might, however, have been dismissed, upon the authority of a
case in this court, directly in point, Skillern's Executors v. May$'s
Executors, 6 Cranch, 267, and upon the footing that- there is, no
mode pointed out by law, in which an erroneous judgment by this
court can be reviewed in this or any other court. In Skillem's case,
the question certified by the court below to-this court, for its decision, was, whether the cause could be dismissed fiom the Circuit
Court, for want of jurisdiction, after the cause had been removed to
the Supreme Court, and this court had acted upon.and remanded
the cause to the Circuit Court, for further proceedings. This court
said, i It appearing that -the merits of the cause had been finally decided in this court, and that its mandate required only the execution
of.its decree, it is the opinion of this court that the Circuit Court is
bound 'o carry that decree into execution, although the jurisdiction
of that court is not alleged in the pleadings." TIe jurisdiction of
this court, in that case, was as defective as it is said to have been in
this. When that cause was before this court, though the judgment
of the court below on it would have been reversed,'upon motion, for
the want of jurisdiction on the face of the record, the defect having
escaped the notice of the court .and of counsel, and the court'having
acted upon its merits, it determijied-that its decree should be executed. The reason for its judgint no doubt was, that the motionr
ta dismiss the case, in the court below, for the want of jurisdiction,
after it had been before the Supreme Court by writ of error, and had
been acted upon, would have been equivalent, had it been allowed,
to a decision that the juAgment" of this court might be reviewed,
when the law points out no mode in which that can be done, either
by this or any other court. The want of power in this court. to review its judgments or decrees, has been so frequently determined by
it, that it is not now an open question. Such is the result of what the
court said in Himely and Rose, 5 Cranch,.314. The court says, in
Martin v. Hunter's Lessee,-1 Wheat. 304, in reply to the allegation
that its judgment had been rendered when. it had not jurisdiction,
"ITo this -argument several answers may be given. -In the first
place, it is not admitted that upon this writ of error the former record is before us. In the next place, in ordinary cases, a second wrif
of error has never been supposed.to draw in question the propriety of
the first judgment, and it is difficult to perceive how such a proceeding could be sustained on principle. A final judgment of this court
is supposed to be conclusive upon the rights it decides, and no statute has provided any process by. which this court can reverse its
2x2
Vor. I.-54

426'

SUPREME COURT.
Norton's Assignee.Y. Boyd et al.

judgments. In several cases formerly adjudged in this court, the
same point was argued, and expressly overruled. It was solemnly
held, that a final judgment of this court was conclusive upon the
parties, and could not be re-examined." - In Browder v. McArthur,
7 Wheat. 58, counsel applied for a re-hearing; the court refused it,
saying a subsequent appeal brought up only the proceedings subsequent to the mandate, and did not authorize an inquiry into the merits of the original decree. The same-is said with equal positiveness
in the case of the Santa Mria, 10 Wheat. 442. To these cases we
add an. extract. from the opinion of the court, given by the late Mr.
Justice Baldwin, in Ex parte Sibbald, 12 Peters, 492. That case
called for the most careful consideration of the court. "Before we
proceed to consider the matter presented -by these petitions, we
think it proper to state our settled opinion of the course which
is prescribed by the law for this court to take, after its final action
upon a case, brought within its appellate jurisdiction, as well as that
which the court, whose final decree or judgment has been thus
verified, ought to take. Appellate power is exercised over the
proceedings of inferior courts, not on those of the appellate court.
'The Supreme Court has no power to review its decisions, whether
in a case at law or in equity. A final decree in chancery is as
conclusive as a judgment at law. 1 Wheat. 355; 6 'Wheat. 113,
116. Both are concluiive of the rights of the parties-thereby adjudicated."
These cases are decisive of the motion made in this case, and as
the decree now appealed from carries into execution the mandate
issued by this court upon the first appeal, we direct it to be
affirmed.

RicHAnD NuGENT, AssIGNEE OF ELIZABETH NORTON,
PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. GEOROE W. BOYD,, IsA.c
ABNER PHELPS, DEFENDANTS.

IN, BAxExuPrc,
T. PRESTON, AND

The principles established in the case of Ex parte the City Bank of New Orleans in the matter of Christy, assignee of Walden, renewed and confirmed.
But this court does not decide, whether or not the jurisdiction of the District
Court over all the property of a bankrupt, mortgaged or otherwise, is exclusive, so as to take away from the state courts in such cases.

Tmns case came up by appeal from the Circuit Court of The United
States for East Louisiana, sitting as a court of equity.
The controversy-was between the bankrupt's assignee, on one
side, and a mortgage creditor and purchasers at the sae under state
process of the mortgaged premises, on the other. The points to be

