JANUARY TERM, 1845.

707

Gantly's Lessee. v. Ewing.

sons: first, because Congress did not assume the powerto deal dire cty
with this title at all; and, secondly, because the report had reference
singly to the face of the grant , regardless of private surveys made subsequent to its date, at the instance of the successive owners.
The state court held McDonogh's title to be valid to every extent
that it has been recognised-by the United States, and only applied
the local laws of Louisiana in its construction, so far as they had a
controlling influence on the manner in which the side lines should
b'e extended from the Mississippi river towards Lake Maurepas; and
as, in so doing, neither the treaty of 1803, nor any act of Congress,
or authority exercised under the United States, -was drawn in question, this- court has no jurisdiction to revise the decision of that
court; for which reason, the cause must'be dismissed.
'The clerk of the Supreme Court of Louisiana issued the writ of
error,.and one of the judgesr of that court signed the citation ; and,
on the ground that such writ could not remove the record, it was
moved on a former day of the term to dismiss the cause. It has
been here for two terms; a writ of certiorari, has been sent down, at
the'instance of the defendant in error, in whose behalfothe motion is
made, to complete the record; he 'now moves to dismiss for the first
time, and We think he comes too late. If errors had been assigned
by the plaintiff here, and joined by the defendant, no motion to dismiss for such a cause could be heard; and as no formal err6rs are
usually assigned in this court, atid none were assigned in this cause,
we think the delay to make the motion is equal to a joinder in
error, even if the clerk of the Supreme Court of Louisiana had no
authority to issue the writ, on which we at present express no
opinion.
LEssEE OF DANIEL W. GANTLY -BT AL., PLAXNTIFF, V.WxLIuAN (.'AND
GEORGE W. Ewuto, ,DEFENDANTS.A law of the state of Indiana; directing "that real'and personal estate, taken in
execution, shall sell for the best price the same will bring at public auction
and outcry, except that the ree-simple of real-estate shall not be sold to satisfyany execution or executions, until the rents and'profits for the term of seven
years of such real estate shall have been first ofr'erpd for sale at public auction and outcry; and ifsuchrents and profits will not sell for a sum sqfficient
to satisfy such-execution or executions, then the fei-simple shall be sold," is
not merely directory to the sheriff, but restrictive of his power to sell the fee-,
simple.
If he sells the fee-simple without having previously offered the refits and profits,

his deed is void.
The law of Indiana, passed after the execution was issued, also required that
,,theproperty shlotld be apjraised. The sheriff's deed was not void, because
of there being no appraisement.

Tins case came up on a certificate of division from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Indiafia.

708

SUPREME COURT.
Gantly's Lessee V. Ewing.

The facts were stated by an agreement in the nature of a special
verdict, and were as follows:
"On the twenty-fifth day of December, eighteen hundred and thirty-eight, one Jacob Linzee was indebted to Daniel W. Gantly, of the
city of New York, in the sum of nine hundred and nine-dollars ana
eighty-two cents; and, to secure the payment of the same, Linzee
then executed to Gantly a mortgage on town lot numbered one hundred and seventy-nine, in Peru, Indiana, of which Linzee was seised
in fee. At the time of the execution of the mortgage, Linzee was
in possession of the mortgaged premises, aid they were worth from
one thousand to fourteen hundred dollars. Linzee' made default in
the payment, and Gantly, on the eighth day of September, eighteen
hundred and forty, obtained a-decree in the state courf to foreclose
the mortgage; and unless the money should be paid in sixty days,
an execution was directed to be issued for the sale of the 'premises.
"In January, eighteen hundred and forty-one, an executibn wu
issued, and on the thirteenth of February following, before the. sale
of the property, the appraisement-law passed, and was published.
the twenty-third day of February, eightedn hundred and forty-one;
on the first of March, eighteen- hundred and forty-one the sheriff,
having given due notice, sold tha premises at public auction, lo the
defindants, for seventy-six dollars, and executed a deed td them for
the same; 'which deed was offered in evidence to support the title
of the defenidants. The property was not valued, nor were the rents
and profits offered for sale by the sheriff. And the court were asked
to instruct the jury thati as the rents and 'profiti had not been offered;
nor the land valued, under the statutes of Indiant, the sheriff's deed
was inoperative and void. And on this question the opinions of the
judges were opposed; and on m6tion of plaintiff's coungel, the point
is certified to the Supreme Court, under the act of Congresa."
Cooper and White, for plaintiffs iii error.
Hoban', for defenidants in error.
The argument' on behalf of the plaintiff in error was as follows:
The acts-of the state of Indiana, which have relation to the question, are certified in the record.
Now as Linzee made default inthe payment of the moey the
mortgage. was given to s cure, Gantly-foreclosed the mortgage in
the state court, under-the provisions of the Revised Laws of Indiana,
of 1831, pp. 244 and 245, and issued hip execution, as Tequired by
that statute, requiring 4' mortgaged premises to be sold as other
lands are sold on execution." All the proceedings, up to the time
of issuirig the execution, were strictly in accordance with the provi-.
sibns of the statute above mentioned. And as the defendants claini
as purchasers under the execution, they waive all objections to the
previous proceedings. Cowper's Rep. 46. "

-

JANUARY TERM, 184.

709

Gantly's Les-Tee v. Ewing.

But I contend that the sheriff's deed to the defendants is inoptrative and void, for the following reasons:
1. Because the sheriff sold the fee-simple of the land, without having first offered the seven years' rents and profits of the same.
2. Because he did not have the land appraised before the sale of
the same.
' By the Revised Law of 1831, p. 235, sect. 3, it is enacted, "That
real and personal estate, taken in execution, shall sell for the best
price the same will bring at public auction and outcry;: except that
the fee-simple of real estate shall not be sold to satisfy any execution or executions, until the rents and profits, for the term of seven
years, of such real estate, shall first be offered for sale at public auction and outcry."
Which appears to be a good and salutary law. acted to prevent
the sacrifice of the fee-simple of real property, to the cupidity of a
heartless sdt of speculators, who hang round sheriff's sales, for the
sole purpose of s1eculating off the-misfortunes of their fellow-creatures. In England the fee-simple of land, cannot be sold under ex:ecution, but the judgment-creditor can only take possession of the
rents and profits, by a writ of kvarifacias, or take hibs extent under
an elegit, but both of which remedies he could,not'resort to. A similar law I believe still prevails in Virginia. In New York,-when:
the'fee-simple has been sold under execution, the 6wner of the land
is allowed a year from the time' of the sale to redeem the land. In
Ohio, lands are required to be appraised before they can be sold under execution. And I never have learned that either the constitutionality, or the policy, or.the propriety of either of the laws of New
York or Ohio, have ever been questioned.
Thento give a fair construction-to the statute of this state last recited, it must inevitably appear that the offering of the rents and.piofits
Was made a condition precedent by the statute to the sale of the feesimple of the land in controversy, and that a sale, without such previous requisition having been first complied with, is null and void.
Sheriffis in this state receive the whole of their power and authority
from the statute laws of the state. They have. no 'common law
powers nor implied powers, and it would be dangerous to trust
them with either. But, on the contrary, it has been said by the Supreme Court of this state that it may be safely presumed, by a bona
fide purchaser at sheriff's sale, that the sheriff had done his duty in
obeying the directions of the statute as respects the inquest, the advertisement and sale, &c. 1 Black. 210.
But in the present case the defendants could not-be bdnafide purchasers; the very idea is repelled by the gross inadequacy of the
price they bid and gavie for the same. -We cannot presume that
the defendants supposed the rents and profits had first been offered;
when the proof is positive that they had not been offered. Presumption can never outweigh positive proof..
30

710

SU-PREME COURT.
Gantly's Lessee'v. Ewing.

The improper conduct of the sheriff in .selling property may be .inquired into, in an action of ejeti.ent on his title, and the owner of
the land, would have Aright to prove on the trial that it was known
to-the purchasers that the rents and" profits had not been offered for
sale by the sheriff. 4 Black. 228.
In the. present case, as the property was sold for a price grossly
inadequate, and the sheriff never offered the rents and profits2 as is
proved
nowoncome
to the seco-d
point,. 1hatis the
pIoperty
had not beet
the trial,-every
presumption
against
the defendants.
appraised before the sale was made.

"

appears from the testiony certified of record, that-the execu-

tion under which the. property in question was sold, wahs issued in
-January, A. D. 1841 ; that on the 13th of February, and before tha

.sle he legislature.passed the appraisement law; and. that the same
_aspublished on.ble 23d of Febrary; .-. , 1841, being fie days
before the sale of th. property in question,..by the' sheriff, to th de-

fendants; .which law was in force, and was, by the 14th section of
the same,
to take -effect from and after its passage. Vie Law of
1841, p,. 130 -132.
I In the case of Tredwav v. Gapin, 1 Blackford, 299, "it was said
by the Supreme Court, that from the time a statute is published in
print, by aufhority, at any place within the state, it takes effect in
every part of it, unless the act itself otherwise directs."
This statute being in force at and'before the time, of sale of the
pr6perty in question, by the sheriff to the defendants, the defendants
have no title to the premises, unless they show that it had been
strictly complied with; the .6th section of which statute is as follows:
"That hereafter no real property shalf be sold on execution for les
than for one-half its cash value at the time of such sale.'? And the 7th.
section of the same law points out the form of the appraisement and
return at the cash vialue at the time of the appraisement; which statute is not-only directdry to the sheriff, but it in positive and direct
terms prohibits'any sale of land under execution, unless the statute
has first been complied with.
In the case of Tweedy v. Pickett, 1 Day's Rep. 109, it was decided by the Supreme Court of Connecticut, tliat, "in order to make
out a title to land. by the levy of an execution, it must be shown the
appraisers were indifferent freeholders,. and that they were sworn
according to lawY And in the case of Mitchell v. Kirtland, ' Conn.
Rep. 229, the law is laid down to the effect following:
The acqusito of title by execution -being a proceedin'g in de-. " .v
'
rogation
goft ote common
law , a strict complian ce :with these requi-,
o
sites is indispensable to a transfer of the title." Vide also, the case
of the, United States v. Slade, 2 Mason, 7Q.
And by the statute of Indiana, approved January 6th, 1821, (Laws
oil 1820, 1821, p. 4,) it is enacted "that no real property shall be
-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

711

Gantly's Lessee v. Ewing.

sold for less than one half of its real value, by virtue of any execution which may hereafter issue on a judgment whichhas heretofore
been rendered, or which may. hereafter be rendered," &c.
Shortly afterwards the Supreme Court of Indiana were called on
to give a proper construction to the last mentioned statute, and it
decided that a bid and sale of land offered at sheriff's sale under
execution under that staute, where the purchaser did not bid half
the appraised value of the land, and a sheriff's deed under such a
bid and sale, were void, and conveyed no title to-the purchaser.
Vide Harrison et al. v. Doe, on the demise of Rapp, 2 Black, 1;
which ease, I think, clearly settles the constructidn of the fecenfappraisement law, and is in accordance with the casds cited in Connecticut, and the case in Mason's Reports. And they all go to
establish the position taken, that, inasmuch as the land *as not appraised before the 'sale, the sheriff's deed to the defendants is inoperalive and void.
If the title to the defendants be good under this deed, they (the
defendants) get the property for less than a tenth part of the value,
and Gantly will have to lose nine-tenths of the money Linzee has so
long and justly owed him; which, Ilhink, clearly shows the sale by
the sheriffto the defendants to be fraudulent and void.
In the third resolution in Fermor's case, 3 Co. Rep. 78, the court
said that "the-common law doth so abhor-fraud and covin, that all
acts, as well judicial as others, and which of themselves are just and
lawfil, yet being mixed with deceit, are in judgment of law wrong
and unlawfl."
The question whether a deed be fraudulent and void as to creditors, may be exnmined and decided in an action of ejectment.
2 Black. Rep. 230.
It would be unnecessary to produce further authority in support
of the second objection to the deed of the sheriff in this case.
It has, however, been contended by the counsel for the defendants, that the appraisement law of our state, of 1841, is unconstitutional, and, therefore, that the lessor of the plaintiff has no right to
complain of its violation; and the case of Bronson v. Kinzie et al.,
1 How. 311, is by them referred to to support their position. But
I am wholly at'a loss to find out the least'spark of resemblance between the cases. 1i Gantly (the lessor) had bought the property in
question for a nominal price, without the same having first been appraised, and Linzee commenced a suit against him to recover the
property, it might have raised a different question to that now before
l our honours. But, ia the present case, the defendants bought the
land at sheriff's sale in violation of the appraisement law, after the
same was in force. The appraisemeut, law, at the time of the purchase, was the law of the land, entered into and became a part of
the contract between the. defendants and the sheriff, and if it.was

712

SUPREME COURT.
Gantly's Lessee v. Ewing.-

unconstitutional, it would make the argument so much the stronger
for setting aside the sale.
A law may.be constitutional in its application to some cases, and
void as to others. -8 Peiers, 94. The law might have been unconstitutional between Gantly and Linzee, and constitutional between
the defendants tnd the sheriff.
Hoban, for defendants in error, after" stating the case, proceeded
as follows:
From the above statement, which is taken word for word from
that of the plaintiff in error, it appears that the title of the defendants in error to the premises in dispute is admiifed, unless the
sheriff's deed 'is inoperative, and the deed is assailed upon thesegrounds: first, because the sheriff sold the fee-simple of the land
without first having offered the seven years' rents and profits of the
same-and this is supposed to be required by the act of the legislature of Indiana of 1831, sections 3 and 18. It must be premised
that this law- is prior in date to that of the mortgage, which was in
1838. It will appear from the law itself that it applies only to executions on judgments at law; section 18 applies to decrees in
equity, which provides that sales under them are to take place at
public vendue to the highest bidder, as on execution on judgments
at law. In the nature of things a law of this kind'could not apply
to a chancery decreei which orders a specific thing to be done in a
manner by the law itself expressly declared to be, as the court may
determine "in the premises between the parties, as may be right
and just." -I do not deem, it necessary on this 15oint to do more
than to refer the honourable court particularly to section 18 of the
law, where the sale of the land and the making of an unencumbered
'deed to the purchaser are spoken of, but no mention of a valuation
of the land, or restriction of the court, first to order the sale of the
rents and profits for seven years, before decrees of the unconditional
sale 'of the premises.
The second objection is, that the land was not appraised pursuant to the act of the legislature of Indiana-of February 13, 1841,
which requires; as it appears, that land shall not be sold on execution,,except after beig appraised, and then only after more than
half the value is bid.
The first answer to this is, that the law applies to sales on executions, which, in Bronson v. Kinzie, 1 Howard, 311, is admitted not
to apply to sales under mortgage foreclosures.
But if the law be admitted, and' be paiticularly framed, to apply
to a case of this kind-still it is clearly unconstitutional. The law
of Indiana is of 1841 ; the date of the moiigage 1838. I shall refer
your honours qnly to Bronson v. Kinzie, I Howard, 311, where the
leading cases are referred to on this subject; Green v. Biddle, Sturges v. Crowningshield, Ogden v. Saunderg; these cases, as labo-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

718

Gantly's Lessee v. Ewing.

riously and ably argued as any on record, decide this general principle, that a state law which materially varies the well ascertained
remedy upon a contract, is as to contracts in existence at the time
of its passage, in the sense of the amendment of the Constitution, a
law impairing the obligation of a contract, and which in consequence
no state has a right to pass. Bronson v. Kinzie, 1 Howard, 311,
applies this principle specifically to a case of the very character now
under consideration, and decides that a law extending the time of
credit under a mortgage foreclosure, and prohibiting the sale of the
mortgage premises, unless after valuation, and unless they produce
a certain sum or value, as such an invasion of the ascertained remedy, at the date of the contract, or mortgage, -(and rendered in legal
contemplation a part of the compact between the parties,) as to come
within the prohibition intended by the Constitution. This law prohibits the sale of the premises.until it may be made to produce onehalf its value by assessment, which may never be.
Mr. JAstice CATRON. delivered the ophion of the court.
This case comes before us on a bertificate of division from the
Circuit Court for the district of' Indiana. As the facts fully appear,
in the statement of the reporter, they-need not be repeated at large
here. The action was an ejectment; the defendants set up a sheriff's deed; and the court was asked-to instruct the jury that the
deed was void for two reasons: First, because the rents and profits
had not been offered for sale, before the fee-simple was sold: Second, nor had the land been valued under the statutes-of Indiana
before, the sale was made.
The first ground of objection involves the construction of the 3d
section of the act of February 4, 1831, which is in the following
words:
"1That 'real and personal estate, taken in execution, shall sell for
the best price the same will bring at public auction and outcry, except that the fee-simple of real estate shall not be sold to satisfy any
execution or executions, until the rents and profits.for the terrh of
seven years of such real estate shall'have fist been offered for sale
at public auction'and outcry; 'and if such rents and profits will bring
a sum sufficient to satisfy the execution or executions levied thereon,'
the sheriff, or other officer, selling the, same, shall make to the purchaser thereof a deed conveying to such purchaser a term of seven
years in and to such real estate; and moreover forthwith deliver.
immediate and actual possession thereof,- and if such rents and profits will not sell for a sum sufficient to satisfy such execution or executions, then the fee-simple, or other estate, of the execution defendant or defendants, shall be sold,'and a deed, conveying the same to
the purchaser thereof, shall be executed y the officer selling the
same."
By this provision the slieriff.was governed in making the sale; if
3o2.
VOL. lI.-90

714

SUPREME COURT.
Gantly's Lessee v. Ewing.

it was merely directory t6 the officer, then the deed cannot be assailed; but if -it contains an inhibition to sell'the fee, until the rents
and profits are first offered, and the authority to sell- the fee in this
instance, did not exist before, then the sale was void: as it is admitted on the record, that the rents and proflts'were not offered by
the sheriff.- Had this fact ndt -been established,.then we are of opinion he court would have been bound to presume the sheriiff did
his duty, and that the sale, and deed founded on it, were valid:
they being primafacie Valid, the proof to assail them must come
from the opposing 'side, be it negative or -affirmative. This is the
general rule applicable to all proceedings of c611rts where they have
and exercise general jurisdicti6n; and of this descriptionis the court
of Indiana, from which the execution-issued . This being conceded,
thi question is, -Does the established.fact annul.the sale. At common law the fee in lands by a fieri facias-is not subject to sale; the
sheriff's a'uthority to sell in this country is in !he gature of a naked
poWer conferred by statute ; he takes no title in the land by the
levy, as he -does in. goods, and can confer none on the purchaser, if
power to sell is wanting. We admit if the words .of a law are
doubtfullthe sale should- be supported; and the benefit of any obscurity in the statute be given to the purchaser, lest he should be
'misled in cases-where a general power is given to tJie sheriff to sell,
and this is limited by indefinite restrictions; and that the safer rule
is to hold,such restrictions-to be directory. :Further than this, no
general rule need'be asserted:' Giving the act in question the benefit of these favourable intendiients, and what.authority did it confer
on the sheriff?
The general power to sell lands at auction and. outcr is given,
but then follows the explicit restriction, that the fee-simple shall not
be sold until, the rents and- profits -shall have been flist offered at
public auction and outcry ; if they bring the amount of- the executfon, the sheriff is to convey to the purchaser the teim of seven years
and put him forhwith into._posses~ion. Had the power to -sll
stopped here, thei no -authority-to convey the fee could exist' and
the question is when did the power arisd? We think, on-the failure.
of the sheriff to get a bid of the whole amount of the levy for a term
of seven years; as before, the fee could not.be sold. Nor-can we
see how the legislature could have made the exception more explicit, unless negative laiguage had been used, repeatig the inhibition; and for this there was no necessity, as the statute conferred a
power not known to the common law, and which could only be
giien affirmatively, and which was not given at all, save with the
positive restriction imposed in advance.
To treat the exception as directory to the sheriff would violate, as
it seems to u§, the general'spirit of the laws of Indiana; they cau"tiously endeavor to maintain- debtors in possession and to preserve
their houses, at the same time that a remedy is afforded to creditors

JANUARY TERM, 184.

715

Gantly's Lessee v. Ewing.

against lands. It not being our province, however, to construe the
state laws on thi6 point, so as to give any binding effiect to the adjudication on the courts of Indiana, we forbear to go into an examination in, detail of -what we suppose to be the policy of that stateOne censideration has been much pressed on us, to wit, That the,
purchasers here are not proved to have had notice of a failure on the
part of the sheriff to dffer the term of seven years for sale first. It
is admitted if such notice had been proved, the sale would be void.
In our opinion the purchaser must be held to notice. The statute contemplates a sale of the term; or an offer to sell it, and a
failure, and 'thip at public outcry, at the same time and place, and,
immediately ,preceding the sale of the fee:
le who goes to purchase and is present at 3he sale, and does purchase, rarely- if ever
can want actual knowledge, as the openi outcry and public auction
of the term is to be as notorious as that by which the fee is sold;
and even should 'the purchaser of .the latter not be-present at the
'opening of the vendue, the slightest diligence would command information whether the re4uisite previous step had been taken. To
treat a bidder at the sale in any of its stages, as an innocent purchaser, we think would be dealing with him in a manner too indulgent; as it is quite certain in 'no other instance could the doctrine
of innocent purchaser be applied to one having equal opportunities
of 'knowledge, aside from any duty imposed on' him to acquire it..
Furthermore: this would -inalmost every case of the kind narrow
down the .issue to a single point-whether the purchaser had or had
not notice; leaving the jui'y to determine on the validity of the title,
'bythe exercise of an undefined discretion; its verdictbeing founded
on an exception inpais, and on one the legislature did not see proper to make. This is a question of power, and the answer to the
suggestioji rest on this. The sheriff's duties are plainly prescribed;
if he has no power to sell, want of knowledge on part of the purchaser -could not confer it, and no such contingency can be let in
to help his deed.
It is insisted the question has been settled by the Supreme Court
of Judicature of Indiana, in the case of Doev. Siiith, 4 Bl'clkford's
Rep. 228, that the purchaser at execution sale tkes a good title to
the fee, although the land had iot been previously offered for sale
by the sheriff for the rents and profits of a term of seven years.
That case does not so settle the point as to satisfy us
It applies
to in
a sale,
made pursuant
act of'
January
3O,1824,
sect. 3;less
it
is
substance
like that toscttheforth
above,
of 1831,
but much
stringent and precige in its terms of exclusibn,'so that the first might
be held directory to the officer,. and the last an inhibition, 'if
the, aecision was to the precise effect contended for, which it is not. For
another reason we suppose the question not fo be settled in Indiana.,
The certificate of division, although not exclusively contrary to the
assumption that the question has been settled, must still be treated

-716

SUPREME COURT
Gantly's Lessee v,. Ewing.

by us as. 'ssuming primaface, that the construction of the statute
is open, and that it requites settlement here for the purposes of the
case; as to no other end could the question le brought here in its
present form.
It is proper to remark, that it would be our duty on this point to
follow the construction of the Supreme Judicial Court of Indiana,
had it settled any; and this we would the more cheerfully do from
the confidence we have in that tribunal; but nothing can be deemed
as settled by the court of last'resort in a state, unless it has adjudged
the direct question; or unless the subject has, in an indirect form,
and at various times, been brought before such court and treated as
conclusively settled, and not open to controversy. This not appearing to be the case, it is certified to the Circuit Court that the
sheriff's deed is void for the reasons stated.
2. The next question certified is, Nhether thn sheriff's deed.is
void, because the land was not valued according to the statute of
Indiana before the sale took place.
Linzee owed Gantly, who took a mortgage on a town lot, of
which Iinzee was sei ed in fee. This occurred' in 1838. The debt
was for $909, and the property mortgaged worth more than the debt.
Linzee made default, and Gantly filed his bill to foreclose: In September, 1840, he obtained a decree of foreclosure,,on which an execution issued in January, 1841. On the 13th of February following,
the appraisement law was passed. The sheriff sold the property on
the 1st of March, 1841, to the defendanti.
. 1: The act of 13th February provides, that the debtor may redeem
real estate sold under execution founded on a judgment or decree,
at any timetwithin twelve months from the day of sale, by paying
the money into the clerk's office, with interest thereon, at the rate
of twelve and a half per cent.
2: That junior encumbrances may redeem in like manner.
3. That if the jud,:ment debtor neglected, or was unable to take
the stay by the laws ihen in force, the property should be sold on a
credit, equal to the stay, and bond be taken by the officer selling,
for the purchase money:
4. That thereafter no property should be sold on execution for
less than one half of itscash value at the time of the sale, to be ascertained by three freeholders at the instance of the officer: and if the
property did not sell for half the value, the fact was to be returned
on the execution, and another might issue subject to the same conditions.
The decree ordering foreclosure was made iih conformity to the existing laws, at the date of the mortgage, and of the decree. An execution sale was the appropriate mode of foreclosure, and this without any of the restrictions contained in the act of February 13, 1841.
The dtcree followed the provisions of the 18th section of the act or
1831, chap. 36. The contract of mortgage was a vested interest,

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

717

McFarland v. Gwin.

and its main incident a right to have the land applied in discharge
of the debt, either by an execution executed, as on a judgment at
law, or in some form of remedy substantially equal. The new
remedy, prescribed by the act of 1841, changed the contract, and
required among other things that the mortgaged premises should
not be sold to satisfy the debt unless they were first valued, and
one-half of that value was bid for them. If the legislature could
make this alteration in the contract, and in the decree enforcing it,
so it could declare the property should bring its entire value, or that
it should not be sold at all; thereby.impairing, or defeating the obligation under the disguise of regulating the remedy. This court
held in Brobson v. Kinzie, 1 How. 319, that the right, and a remedy substantially in accordance wvith the right, were equally parts
of the contract, secured by the laws of the state where it was made;
and that a change of these laws, imposing conditions and restrictions
on the mortgagee, in the enforcement of his contract, and which
affected its substance, impaired the obligation, and could not prevail ; as an act directly p'rohibited, could not be done indirectly.
This being the settled doctrine of the court, and applying as forcibly to the case before us, as*it did to the one cited,.we answer to
the second ground of objection, that the sheriff's deed is not void
on this ground, although no valuation of the property was made
before the sale.

Wm.-LAx

H.

McFARLAND

V.

WILLUA

M.

GwiN,

(LATE MAISHAL.)

A marshal is not authorized by law to receive any thing, in discharge of an
execution, but gold'and silver, unless the plaintiff authorizes him to receive
something else.
The case of Griffin et aL v. Thompson, 2 Howard, 244, reviewed and confirmed.
A marshal, like a sheriff, is bound, after the expiration of his term of 'office, to
complete an execution.which has come to his hands during his term; and
an execution is never completed until the 'money is made and paid over to
the plaintiff, if it is practicable to make it.

Tins case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the southern district of Mississippi.
McFarland had recovered a judgment against one Passmore for
the sum of $9763 10, and on the 6th of July, 1839, issued a fieri
facias.
On the 1st of November, 1839, the execution was levied upon
sundry pieces of property by the marshal.
On the 20th of December, 1839, a venditioniexponas was issued,
to which the marshal made the following return:
4CThe within named property was sold on the 27th.day of Janu-

