JANUARY TERM, 1846.

ROBERT BR0OCETT ET AL., APPELLANwTS, V. W4LNAM BROCKETT ET A.,
DEFENDANTS.

When an issue is directed by a court of chancery, to be tried-by a court of law,
and. in the course of the trial at law, questions are raised and bills of exceptions taken, these questions must be brought to the ni)tice and deci~ion of the
court of chancery which sends the issue.

If this is not done, the objections cannot be taken in t appellate court of
chancery.
If the chancery court below refers matters of account to , master, his report
cannot be objected to in 'the appellate court unless ext-pnons to it have
been filed in the court below in the manner p6inted out in the seventy-third
chancery rule of this court.

Tnis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States

for the-District of Cilumbia, in atd for the county ofAlexandria.,
-The-case Ls-suffligentLy stated in the opinion of the court.
.7ealnand Bradley, for the appellants.
Jones an& Brent, for the appellees.
Mr. ustice McLEAN delivered the'opinion of the court.
This is a bill in -chancery, brought here by -an appeal from theCircuit Court of the District of Columbia.
The complainants filed their bill, alleging themselves to be the
.legitimate heirs of'Robert Brockett, deceised, and claiming as such
one-half of the rel and personfil property of wbich he died'seized
and possessed. The defendants filed their answers, denying the
allegations of the bill. An issue at law was directed to try the legitimacy of the complainants, and after hearing the eidence, the
jury found a verdict in their favour.
Several exceptions were taken to the rulings of the coiirt, in the
admission of evidence to the jury, and to the refusal-of the court to
admit evidence offered by the defendants, which appear in two bills
of exceptions. And these decisions, in relation to the trial of the
issue, constitute the principal ground of controversy in the case.
it does not appear that any questions were "raised on the chancery
side of the court, growingr out of these exceptions. And this not
having been done, it is proper to inquire" vhether the exceptions
can be considered in this court.
It is contended that as the-same judges sat in the court of law
as in the court of chancery, that it could not be necessary to bring
before them as chancellors what they bad decided in a court of law.
Had the court 'of law been held by dtlUbren persons from those
who sat as chancellors, it is admitted that it would have been necessary to bring before the latter the points ruled in the trial of the
issue. But is not the principle the same inboth cases? The capacities in which the same tribunal acts on such occasions, are as disdnet asif the same duties had been performed by different tribunals.

692

S'UPREME COURT.
Br'ockett et al. v. Brockett et al.

The distinction is the same as where a judgment at law is entered
by a court which also exercises chancery-powers; and which powers are inVbked against its own judgment. In such a case it might
as well be said, as in the present one, why rhay nqt the same court,
whether acting at law- or in chancery, having possession of the
caase, finally decide it.
The bills of exceptions are copied into the record; but they do
not properly constitute a part of. it, as.they were not brought to the
notice and decision of the court sitiig in chancery. An issue in
part is directed by a court of chancery to inform its conscience. To
bring'the fact or facts before the jury at law, a feigned issue is pnade
by pleadings, as. at law; and if the pleadings of the jury be unsatisfactory to the court of chancery, either on account of the admission
of incompetent evidence, the exclusion of evidc-nce which is corn-.
petent, or by a mistake of the facts by the jury, the court of chancery will order another trial of the issue.- By the consent of-parties
these issues are sometimes tried without the formality of pleading.
Put in all cases where objections,,exist -to the verdict, they mustbe
brought before the court of chancery which ordered the issue.
And where this is-not done in -an inferior- court, the objections cannot be taken -in the appellate court of chancery. It is a general
rule of practice, that no point arising on the pleadings or evidence
in an appellate court shall be made which was not brought to the
notice Df the inferioicourt. Afid we think in this case, that the exceptions takn on the trial of the issue at law not having been, acted
on by the court of. chancery below, cannot be insisted on in this
court.

Being satisfied of the legitimacy and consequent heirship of the
complainants, from the verdict of the jury, the court below referred
toa master the rents'"eceived by the defendants, and other matters
of account pertaining to the estate. And to some of the items allowed by the mastei objections are made before this court. But it
does not appear that these objections were brought before' the lower
court by exceptions to the -master's repor. The seventy-third
chaneery rule is decisive, on this subject. It provides that "the parties-shall have one monthlfrom the time of filing the master's report,
to file exceptions thereto, and if no exceptions are within that period
filed, by either party, the report shall stand confirmed on the next
rule-day-after the month is exjpired." No exteptions having been
filed in the 'Circuit Court to the report of the master, none can be
heard in this court. "
The verdict and.the report of the master, which constituted the
basis'of the decree of-the-court below, not having been objected to
in th t court, cannot be objected to here, and consequently the decree of the Circuit Court isaffirmed with costs.

