720

SUPREM;E COURT,
Neil, Moore,& Co. v. Thie State of Ohio.

thereupon the court rendered judgment against the plaintiff, and for
the defendant.
To ieverse this judgment the plaintiff has prosecuted this writ of
error.
This
.
question. is fully settled in the case of. Griffin & Ervin- v.
Thompson,. 2 How. Rep. 244. In that case this court heldhat the
marshal was not authorized by law to receive, any thing in discharge
of the execution, but the gold or silvei coin of the United States. To
this general proposition -we,give our full aisent; but we do not mean
to say there is no exception to this general rule.- If the plaintiff
were te authorize the marshal to take bank notes,, of any description, in payment of the exenution, we have no hesitation in saying,
a payment by ttie defendant to the marshal in such bank notes
would be a satisfaction of the judgment.
But as Gwin failed to prove any such authority from the plaintfif
he was, clearlydliable for , the whble amount of the execution with
legal interest thereon, -except the amount paid to the plaintiff's
attorney. It has been contended, however, in this case, that, at the
.time this motion was made, Gwin was not marshal, his time having
expired, and another having been appointed in his stead. It is a'
wel settled principle of law, that if an executioii come to the hands
Sbf a sheriff to be executed, and his term of-bffice expire before he
executes iti he is bound nevertheless to complete the execution;
and the same rule applies to a marshal. An execution, is never completed until the money is made and paid over to'the plaintiff, if it
be practicable to make it.
All the remedies against the marshal, necessary to compel him to
-pay o'ver the money he has made, suirvi'ie'his term of service, and
remain-in full force against him until the execution shall be completed,
The judgment pf-the Circuit Court must, therefore, be reversed.

& COMeAN,I?
NZIL, MooRE4
-

ANTIrFFS .n" ERROR, v. THE STAT E oFOoDgEwDAiNT.

Uade the acts of Congreand of the State of Ohio, relating to the surrender and
of the 4juinbetland oad, a toll charged upon passengers travel'cceptanc
also Upon passengers travelling
being chargedvoid.
without
themaistages,
-.lingiu
in otherstages,
is against
the contract,-andl
It. _sts altogether in the discretion of the postmastergeneral, to determine at
or more
once aatday
onlyarrive
place aid
others,
and
the sameplaces
-leaveparticular
mail shaIl
leave
what
hours -the
it shall
whether
detnrmiie
* to
frequently.
a e
It'is not, herefore, the mere frequency of the departure of carriages, carrying
:the mail', that constitutes an abus of teprivilee of the United States, but
th.e
hunec'ssary~division
thetolls.
mnail bags amongst a-nnmber of carriages in
order
to evade the paymenof of
Tis
nas case
brought up under the 25th section of the Judicarry

Act, bywrit. of-error, from the Supreme Court of Ohio.

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

'7I

Neil, Moore & Co.-'. The- State of Ohio.

It involved the construction of the acts of Congress and the state
of Ohio, relative to the cession of the'Cumberland road,- which are,
narratd in a preceding part of this volume, in the case of Searight
v. Stokes et al., p. 151.
It is proper, however, to state the law of Ohio with more particularity than it was necessary to do in the report of that case. The.
proviso contained in the 4th section of the act of 1831, was there
recited, but the 5th section was not. They are as follows:
Sect. 4 lays tolls, and adds: "Provided, That nothing in this act
shall be construed so as to authorize any tolls to be received- or collected from any Rersbn passing tb or from public worship,, or to or
from any muster, or to or -rom his common business on his farm or
.woodland, or to or from a funeirl, or to or from a mll, or to orfroin
his common place of trading or marketing, within the county in which
he resides, including their wagons, carriages and horses, or oxen
drawing the same: Provided also, That no toll shall be received or
collected for the passage of any stage or coach cofiveying the United
States mail, or horses,.bearing the same, or any wagon or carriage
laden with the property oi the United States, or any cavalry or other
troops, aims or military stores belonging to the same, )r to any of
the states comprising this union, or any person or persons on duty
in the military service of the United States, or of. the militia of any
of the states.
"Sect. 5. That it shall be lawful for the Genieral Assembly,-at
any future session thereof, without the consent of Congress, to
change, alter, or amend this act: Provided, That the same shall not
be so changed, altered, or amended, as to reduce or increase the,
rates of toll hereby established, below or above a sum necessary to
defray the expenses incident to. the preservation and repair of the
said road, to the erection of gates and toll houses-thereon, and for
the payment of the fees or. salaries of the superintendent, the collectors of tolls, and of such other agents as may be necessarily employed in the preservation and repair of the same, according to the
true intent and meaning of this at."
On thd 6th of February, 1837, the- -state of Ohio passed an act,
containing, amongst other provisions, the following, viz.:
"Sect. 4. That one daily stage, coach, or other vehicle, and nlo
more, with the horses drawing the'same, belonging to any con-tractor or contractors for carrying the United States mail on said
road, with the passengers therein, shall be permitted to pass in each
direction free from the payment of tolls; and each additional stage,
coach, or other vehicle beloiging to such contractor or contractors,
although the same may contaiii a mail, or portion thereof, shall be
charged with the same tblls as other vehicles of the like kind. But
if the postmaster-general shall order the maif to be divided, and carried in two or more stages, coaches, or vehicles, in any one direction daily, then in such case the coaches or vehicles in which mails
VOL. llI.-91
3P
-

725

SUPREME COURT.
Neil, Moor.e & Co. v. The Sta.te of Ohio.

shall actually be carried, shall pass free of toll; but on each passenger transported in any-such additional stage, coacli, or vehicle,
there shall be charged and collected at each' gate, three cents, in
manner hereinafter provided.
"Sect..5. ,That each and every driver of any stage, coach, or
other vehicle, belonging to any such mail contractor or contractors,
other than such as are 'entitled to carry passengers free of toll, shall,
at each and every gate, report the number of seats occupied in such
stage,- coach, or other vehicle, to the keelier of such gate, whose
duty it shall be to open an account against the proprietor or proprietors of such stage,'coich, or other vehicle, and charge, in a book
to be kept for that purpose, three cents for each passenger, qs-provided in the .preceding section of this .act; arid said proprietor or
-proprietors shall pay over'to such gate keeper, at the end of every
three months after the taking effect of.this act, the aggregate amount
of tolls which shall 'have become aue for-passengers, and charged
as above provided.
"Sect. 6. That should the driver of any stage, coach, or other
vehicle; belonging to such mail -contractor or contractors, other than
such as are n-itled to carry passengers free of toll, neglect br refu'se
to report to any gate keeper thewnumber of seats occupied in said
stage, coach, or vehicle, it shall be the duty of such gate keeper to
charge the proprietor or proprietors of such stage, coach, or. other
Vehicle, at the rate aforesaid, for each and every. seat which might
be occupied inthe same, to be recovered-in an action of debt,.in the
name of the State of Ohio, in-any Court having cpmpetentjurisdiction.
"Sect.. 8. That the, Board of Public Works, or their authorized
agent, may be-allowed to dllecttolls from any proprietor or proprietors of any line of stages, post-coaches, or other vehicles for the
conveyance of passengers, quarterly; and if,any proprietor or proprietors.of any.such line of stages, post-coaches, or other vehicles:as
aforesaid,' shall neglect.or refuse to pay quarterly, that from and after
such neglect or refusal, the said proprietor or proprietors as aforesaid
shall be required to pay at each and every gate as they pass: Provided, That the Bdard of Public Works; or their-authorized ageni,
shall have made out and presented to any such proprietor or proprietors, or any one of them, the amount of the toll due from him or them
for each and every gate.?
The act of the legislature, of March 19, 1838, provides as follows:
* Sect. 24. That the said Board of Public Works shall have power
t6, revise the rates of toll to be paid by persons passing on or using
the National road iin Ohio, and so to modify the same, from time to
time, as to raise and collect, in the most equal nanner, the sum necessary to defray the expenses'ncident to the preservdtion and repair
of said road, to the erection of gates Ad toll-houses theredn, and for
'the paypment.ofthe fees or salaries-of the superintendent, the collectors

of-tolls, and of such other ageuts as may be necessarily emploed in

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

723

Neil, Moore & Co. v. Th-e State of Ohio.

the repair, and pre6ervation of-the same, acording to the true intea
and meaning of -the act, passed Fe-bruary 4th. 1831, entitled IAi
act for the preservation and repair of the Unitec States road."'
The order of the Board of Public Works, above referred to, is as
I
follows:
-"By virtue of the powers vested? in the Board of'Public Works,
by the 24th 'section 8f the act ' in aildition to an attfori the prdservation and repair of the United States road,' passed March 19th,
1838, it is hereby
"Ordered, That instead of the rate,'f -toll charged on each passenger by thie 4th section of-the act ' fixing the rates of tolls on the
National road,' passed February 6th, 1837,-there shall be charged
ten cents, at each gate, on each of such passengers."
In October, 1842, a suit was brought- in- the Court of Common
Pleas, in Franklin county, against Neil, Moore & Co. 3 for tells on
passengers conveyed in -stages by the defendants, on the National
road, and the following agreed statement of facts was filed:
"In this case, the following facts are agreed by the parties: The
partnership of the defendants, as alleged, is admitted.: The plaintiff claims to recover for tolls on passengers. carried upon the Na:
tional road, in Ohio' in coaches belonging to the defendants, other
than and besides one daily stage-coaeh, carrying the mail of the
United States- which said coach, with the horses, passengers, and
every thing else pertaining to it, was permitted to pass toll free.
The order of the Board of Public Works, hereto annexed, was made
in due form, at the date thereof, and is to be admitted in evidence.
The passengers upon whom toll is sought to be recovered, were carried by the defendants, as above mentioned, between the first days
of April and October, A, i). 1842.

-The

defendants were contract-

ors for carrying 'he mail of the United States upon said road,'-and
said passengers were all carried in coaches in'which a part of said
mail was carried at the sayne time; the mail being thus carried in
more than one coach, pursuant to orders from the postmaster-general; one coach, containing a pirt of the mail, and-'the passengers,
and baggage, and every thing off it, being, at th; same* time, permitted to pass toll free, as above stated. The mail was carried in
one line of coaches, down to the-time stated in the annexed statement of the potmaster-general, which; together with the accompanying orders of the department, are taken'in evidence in this case.
Both before and since the construction of the National read, it was
the uniform practice, in Ohio, to carry passengers on the coaches
carrying the mail; and since the construction of the 'National road,
no claim was made-for toll on such passengers, or coacles, or on any
thing pertaining to them,'except as shown'by the case of The State
of Ohio v. Neil and Moore, 7 Ohio Rep..132. Until the mail was
carried in two separate line's of coaches, as -specified in the said
statement of the postmaster-general, and in the manner and for the

.724

SUPREME COURT.
Neil,-Moore & Co. v. The State of Ohio.,

purpose therein mentioned, the defendants were required to oarry
the mail in two separate lines of coaches, and did so carry it accordingly. It is admitted that the acts of the legislature of Ohio,
and the orders of the Board of Public Works, in existence when the
tolls in question accrued, did not reduce or increase the rates of toll,
hereby established, below or above a sum necessary to defray the
expenses incident to the preservation and repair of the said Toad, to
the erection of gates and toll-houses, thereon, and for the payment
of the fees or salaries of the superintendent, the collectors of tolls,
and of such other agents as maybe necessarily employed in the preservation and repair of,the same , but it is not intended by this'admission to preclude the defendants from objecting to the validity or
legality of said charge of toll upon passengers, upon any ground they
may think prol er to take. in the argument. It is understood an'd
agreed that. this case shall not in anywise prejuidice the rights of the
plaintiff, nor, of the defendants,. in any other suit, upon any demand
not included in the facts hereby agreed. For the mutual convenience of the parties, this. case is narrowed down so as to preseit
only the.questibn arising upon the facts above stated. Any material
fact left out in this 'agreement, may be supplied,; by proof, on the
trial, by either party, after giving the .other party reasonable notice
of such: intention. It is agreed by the parties that the whole number of passengers charged with tol at all the gates, between the first
days of April and July, A. D. 1842, was ten thdusand seven hundred and fifty-six, and that the whole number chargeable between
the first day of July and October, A. D. 1842, was -twelve thousand
six hundred and seventeen; and that if .the plaintiff be entitled to
recover, judgment shall be entered for the sum of $1075 with
interest from the first, day of July, 1842, and $1261 67J, with-interest from the first day of October, A. D. 1842, and costs, or for such
other sums as may be due, computing the tolls,on said passengers at
any other rate than that fixed by the Board of Public Works, if the
court deem. it competent to adopt any other rate, with'interest on the
gross sums due on -dhe-first days of July and October above mentioned, from those times respectively, and costs."
The Court of Common Pleas were -of opinion that judgment
should he entered for the plaintiff -and the damages were assessed at
$2438-25;
The defendants carried' the case to the Supreme Court of Ohio,
where, in. December, 1 8 43 . the- judgment of the court belo* was
affirmed, and the following certificate'was annexed.to the record.
"'And it is hereby certified, that on the trial of this cause the defendants set up and claimdd 'the right and authority to transport, in
theii two daily lines of mail-coaches, which carried the United.
States mail, under a contract with the postinaster-general, and by
the authority of the United States, passengers travelling therein, free
of toll, along-the United States.road, in the state of Ohio, and,

1725

JAN.UARY TERM 1845.
Neil, Moore & Co. v. The State' of Ohio.

through the toll-gate -erected by the said state- thereon; that the
said defendants set up and claimed this -power and authority under
and by virtue of the act of Congress approved the 2d da of March,
A. D. 1831, entitled "An act declaring the assent of Congress to
the act of the General Assembly of the state of Ohio," recited there-.
in; and that in-said case there were drawn in question the construction, effect, and validity, of said act of Conress, and the right and
authority claimed by the said defendants under the United States,
byvirtue there6?, and that the decision was against the validity of
said act to confer the right and authority so claimed."
The defendants sued out a writ of error-, to bring this decision of
the Supreme Court ofOhio before this court.
Ewing, (in writing,) for plaintiffs in error.
Swayne, for defendant in error.
Ewing referred'to the law of Ohio, passed in 1838, and the order
of the Board of Public Works, (both of which have been already
cited,) and then prbceeded thus:
Under this law and this order, there was charged against -the
plaintiffs in error, on passengerstransported in one of their lines of
coaches, in which they carried the United States mail; by order of
the postmaster-general, a large amount of tolls, wich charge, as
stated in the agreed case, is the foundation of this suit.
I contend that the second proviso in th6 4th..section of the statute
of Ohio, of February 4th, 1831, which .exemts"from the payment
of toll "1any stage or coach conveying the United States mail," &c.,
when assented to by the act of Congress of March 2d,-1831, became
and was an essential part-of a contract,'over which Ohio alone hPd
no power or control. On the other side, I understand, ilwill be
contended that the 15th section of the statute, reser.ves to Ohio the
right to alter or abolish that exemption'at pleasure. This is the first
question which we present for the consideration of the court. If we leave out of view the 15th section, this statute, as assented
to, is clearly a contract. By it the United States surrenders the
road to Ohio, in consideration of which Ohio agrees to levy tolls,
and keep the road in repair, and suffer the mails and other property
of the United States to pass along it toll-free. Now, could it have
been the intent of the contracting parties to put it in the "power of
one of them to annul at pleasure a valuable provision of- that contract, and is such intent unequivocally -expressed-in the 15th section?
I think not. It is not reasonable to suppose it, and the statute does,
not necessarily requixe, if, indeed, it will admit of a construction
which will allow it.
The first four sections of the. statute contain, 1st, a contract.. '2d,
The means in detail, by which Ohio proposes to execute it on her
governor to that effect
part, couched in very special directions
3P2 to.the
1
-

726

UPREME COURT.
Neil, Moore & Co. -v. The State of Ohio.

The contract Was not properly an act of the legislature, ana I do not
admit that it was so considered or treated of in the 15th section.
But .all those*matters whi,h did not pertain to the contract, those
provisions'which touched hot its, execution, but the mode and man'ner of its executionj fell at once within the sovereignty of Ohio;
and the statute, so far as it relates thereto, became- and was, to all
intents and purposes, an act of her legislature. Now, there are here
a contract and a star'ate. Ohio reserves the right to: "change, alter,
and amend!' the statute, but surely not to chinge, alter, and amend
the contract. Indeed, if there be a contract, such a provision would
be void, because it would be inconsistentwithand destructive of it.
But the two provisoes in the 4th section, and the proviso in the 15.th
section, do all, as.I tbink, look to the distinction bdtween that which
is contract, and that which is merely a legislative act..
The first proviso in the 4th section, which makes some domestic
exemptions roM toll, with which Congress had nothing to do, (such
as persons going to market, to public worship, &c.,) is couched in
this language, "provided, that iothing in this act shall be so con-'
strued as to authoiize" thecollection of tills from such objects, but
it does not say that no tolls shall be cbllectedc from them. This
statute' does not authorize such collection, yet some future act may.
But the second proviso which follows this immediately, and which
might have been included under the first, without any "provided
also," had it not been intended to-place the two subjects in totally
different categqries,. declares "-thatno toll shall be received or collected forthe passage of any stage or coach conveying tlfe United
States mail," &c.-notconfining it to 'theconstruction of this statute
merely, as in the other case, but a universal prohibition, extending
t6 all future time.
The"provigo in the 15th -section siems to contemplate alteration
and amendment in the rates'of toll, not in te objects on which it is
to be levied.
-It shall be lawful for the GeneralAssembly at any future'session
thereof, withbutthhe consent 6f Congress, to change, alter, or amend
this acft'
Prbvided, that the sam shall not be so thanged, altered,
or amended, is to reduce or increase the rates of toll hereby established below.o above, &c.1
So-that the objects exempted from
toll by ihe second proviso, are, for that reason, out of the operation
of the 15th- section. There may, itip true, be some inc6nsiifency
in the apparent ends and objects, of the first -proviso in the 4th and
the provisb in the 15th section-the one implying that'the objects
subject to t6ll might, and the other that they might not; be thereafter
extended; Yet both are inconsistent with the supposition that toll
might be levied on the objects exempted in the second proviso-,
'But it is still more important-that the chief end and purpose of the
contract would be frustrated and destroyed by-allowing Ohio to repeal that proviso.
-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

727

Neil, Moore & Co: v. The State of Ohio.

But if Ohio had a-right to change and alter that proviso, and if it
were §o changed by the act of February 24th, 1837, it is restor'ed
by the 24th section of the act of March 19th, 1838. That act empowers the Board of Public'Works to revise the rate of tolls on the
National road, and to modify the same so as to raise and collect, in
the most equable manner, the sum necessaryto defray expenses, &c.,
accoding to the true intent and meaning of the"act of February,
1831.' And the Board of Public Works, by virtue of the power
so 'vested in them, charged the toil'which is the iubject of this suit;
so that at last the.case rests upon'" the true intent and meaning of
the act of February 4th; 1831," just as it stood-when it was adopted
by Congress, and became a contract between the United States and
Ohio.
2. I contend that the levy of the toll, which is the subject' of
this suit, was a violation of that contract.
Nominally, and in express words, by the statute of Maich 19th,.
1838, the- seeiond. mail-coach, as well'as the first, is permitted to.
pass toll free; but toll is charged against the proprietor of such coach'
for the passengers which are carried in it. Now, no toll is charged
to persons who' pass the gates, unless they pass in a mail-cdach.
Out of the mail-coach they go free-in it, toll is-charged upon them
against the proprietor, because he owns the mail-coach ; or, in other
words, toll is charged upon .the mail-coach to the amount of tencents for each passenger which it carries.
Now, it cannot for a'moment be.contended thdt, under this contract, (if it be a contract,) and within its spirit, either the horses.
drawing the mail-cdach, or the person driving it, can- be charged.
with tol. It would be a mere evasion to contract that the mail
should pass toll free, and yet charge toll on its necessary incidents.
I ink it would be equally so, though not at first'visw so striking, tocharge toll on that which was its uniform incident at-the time of the
cbntract, because not absolutely indispensable to its passage. Thus
it is with the transportatibn of passengers. The agreed case.shows
that, at the time of the-contract, and before and since, it has been
the uniform practice to-carrypassengers in the mail-coaches.
It must be presumed that the contract was made with a view to.
that practice and in stipulating that the mail-coaches should pass
free of toll, that both partie§ intended they should so pass with
:their usual incidents-horses, coachmen, guards, passengers. 'If not
with all, with what 'part? It will be answered, that only which is
necessary. But ihe' question reciirs; how far necessary, and who is:
to determine the necessity which will bring the case within the spirit
of the contract? Hores are necessary,.but how many? Persons
to condut the coach and protect the mail, but how many of them?'
May you take an.'agent or guard free of toll? The necessity f6r
each of these is in the same degree ivithlthe necessity of passengersboth tend to the security of the mail ; 1ut it is possible that it may'

728

SUPREME COURT.
NXil, Moore & Co. v. The State of Ohio.

go safely Without either, and both or neither should be exempt from
'toll.
Such Was clearly the understansting at, and long after, the date
of the contract. The agreed case-shows that Ohio permitted, and
still permits, one daily line of mail-coaches to go, with its passengers, toll free. There was, therefore, a perfect understanding ad-to
what was carried, and should continue to be carried,'in the mail
coach, and partake of its.exemption. But the state now claims to
limit. this exemption to the passengers in one daily line of mailcoaches, and to charge toll on those transported in the second daily
line. I 'hink there is-nothing to warrant this limitation. It is true,
that at the time of inaking the contract'the mail was carried in one
daily line o coaches, but there is nothing in the contract to limit it to that; but, on the contrary, it must have been within the contemplation of the.parties that th1e nufaber of lines should be in-.
creased according to.the wants of the country and the conveniience
of the department. This, also, 'seems to be admitted; for the
second line of coaches is permitted to pass toll free, if. it carry no
passengers. Now; if the first line of coaches has a right, under the
.conitract, to'carry its passengers toll'free, and if the second line has
a ri~ht to pass toll free, no toll &an be charged upon it for its pas
senge-s, for they are just as much the usual and well understood incident of a secofid, as of a first line of mail-coaches. Toll, therefore, can be-charged upon them only where the mail is put into more
than one line of coaches wrongfully, for the purpose of avoiding the
payment of toll-, We show that such is not the case here.
3. But I contend, also, that the coach carrying the United States
mail, upon a post road established by law, is a matter over which a
state has no power or sovereignty, emd which it cannot by law burden with any toll or-imposition whatsoever.' -Itis another question,
how-a road, which'is the property of a state, is to be made a post
road ; but whtn it once is go, and fairly. the 'property of the United
States,' as this road was, and is to that extent and for that purpose,
the state has no power to interfere with, lay burdens upon, or prescribe the manner, of its use. The mail is transported under a law
-of Congress,-by contracts made with the postmaster-general. For
the convenience of the public and the security of the riinils, he requiris it'to be carried in coaches adapted to the transportation of
passengers, 'and the contracts could not be executed according totheir spirit, and with. due regard to the safety of the mails,.shbuld
the contractor fail to provide for'the trafisportation-of passengerm.
The compensation paid for carrying the mail is fixed with a view to
these duties and conditions, and any tax or toll levied on a contractor
,on account of assengers, by so.much lessens -his cqmpensation, or
it compels the department to increase it to an equivalent amount.
Nay,lf "such toll may be levied, it enables a state,- at pleasure, to prohibit -the traihsporfation of passengers in all Iiail-coaches, and

-

ANUARY -TERM, 1845.

729

Neil, Moore & Co..e. The State of Ohio.

thus take away• i greatest safeguard. In Jike manner, the state
might tax, at ii'tioll-gates, even to prohibition, a guard passing~ upon
and With the coach carrying the mail. This case, as -I view it, falls
within the reasoning of the court in Dobbins v. The Commissibners
of Erie, county, 16 PAters, 448, 450.
The transportation of the UnitedStates -mailis a substantive power
in Congress, to which the establishment of post-roads, thdugh specially granted by the constitution, is but an incidents for it can be
only with a .view to the transportation, of the mail that Congress
could use the power to establish post-roads, and the passage of the
mai'in the'coach along the. post-road, with the horses which move
,it, and the drivers -who guide, and the passengers, or guards who
protect it from violation, are, to borrow the. language of the court,
in McCulloch v. Maryland, which is repeated by Chief Justice Marshall; in Weston'v. The City of Charleston, 2 Peters, 46, ." those
means which are employed by Congress to .carry into execution the
of the Uniied States,"'
conferred on that, body by-theofpeopl6
power the
taxati6n," or the levying of
attempt to use the power
and1
tolls "on the means Pmployed by the government of the union in
pursuance of the Constitution, is- itself an abuse, because it is the
usurpation of a power which the people of a single state cannot
give ;" for "1the states have no power, by taxation or otherwise, to
retard, impede, burden, -or in any mannfer- control the operation of
the constitutional laws enacted by Congress to barry into execution
the powers vested in:the general government."
The right to ta; these contracts for the transportation of the mail
must operate uipon the contractors before they make their bids, and
thus haVe a sensible effect upon the contracts. .If this poer be
allowed to exist at all, in this case "its extent depends upon the
will of a distinct government. It. may le carried fo an extent
which will arrest them elntirely."
Slwayne'g argument was as follows.-Before proceedinbg tothediscussion of the question arising in the
case, I respectfully submit-to the consideration .qf the court the.folgre iminary points.
1. The act of the legislature of Ohio, of February 4, 1831, which
lies at the bottom 'of this controversy, and upon which ii must .be
determined, is a local state law, and, being su.eh,.this court; in.givtA it a construction, will follow the decisions oT ht highest judicial
tribunal of that state. McKean v. Delancy's Lessee, 5 Cranch, 32.;
Polk's Lessee v. Wendall, 9 Cran h, 87 ; Mutual Ass. Society v
Watts, 1 Wheat. 279 ; Shipp et al. v. Millers heirs, 2 Wheat. 316;
Ghrdner v. Collins, 2 Peters, 58; U. S. v. Morrison, 4 Peters, 127;
Anderson et al, v.- Giffin, 15 Peters, 151.
" We receiYe the constructibn given by the courts of the nation
as the true sense of the law, and feel ourselves no more at liberty'
VoL. III.-92
-

730

SUPREME COURT.
Neil, Moore & Co. v. The State of Ohio.

to depart from that construction than to depart from the words of
the statute. On this principle, the construction given by this court
to the Constitutionand laws of the United States, is receive'd by
all as the true cbnstruction; and on the same principle, the construction given by the courts of the several states to the legislative acts
of those states, is received as true, unless itconflict with the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States."
"This course is founded upon the principle supposed to be universally recognised, that the judicial department of every government, where such department exists, is the appropriate .organ for
construing the'legislative acts 6f that government." Elmendorf v.
Taylor'et al., 10 Wheat- 152.
"Nor is it questionable that a fixed and received construction of
their respective laws in their own courts, makes in fact a part of the
dtatute law of the counfry, however we may doubt the propriety of
that construction." - Shelby et al. v. Guy, 11 Wheat. 361.
2. Ifthere be doubt in the minds of the court as to the proper
constiuction of the legislative act of 1831, that doubt will be so resolved as to sustain'the claim of the'defendant in error.
. "cThe presumption must always be in fav6ur of the validity of
laws, if the contrary is not clearly demonstrated." Cooper v. Telfalr, 4 Dali. 14.
If the first of these points be sustained, it determines this case.
This identical question has been twice decided by the highest court
of judicature of the state, in favdur of.the defendant-in error. The
first of these decisions was made in 1835) by the Supreme Court"
of the state, sitting in bank, (The State of Ohio v. Neil & Moore,
7 Ohio Rep. 132;) the second, by the Supreme ,Court in this case.
Why is this point not tenable? It is true, Congress assented to
the act of the legislature; but that assent.was given without limit or
qualification. It does not make the act any the Jess "the act of the
legislature of a particular state".--nor does it in any wise change
the principles upon which it is to be 'construed. I am unable to
.perceive any reason why its construction should not -bedetermined
by the same lights which 're applied in this court to other state
enactments; and I think it inay be safely -affirmedthat every argument advanced in the authorities cited, to sustain, the principle
which they decide, applies with undiminished force in this case.
I If in this I err; if these two solemn decisions of the highest judicial tribunal of the state have not settled the question, then I rely
upon the merits of the case."
Before considering them, it is proper brIefly to advert to the circumstances under which the road. was ceded by the United States
to the state of Ohio.
" In the construction of the statutory or local laws of a state, it is
frequently necessary to recur 'to the histor and situation of the
country, in order-to ascertain the reason. as vwll as the menaning of

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

731

Neil, Moore & Co. v. The State of Ohio.

many.of the provisions in them, to enable a court to apply with pro.
priety the different rtles 'ofconstruing statutes." Preston v. Brow.
der, I Wheat. 115.
At the time of the passage of the act of the legislature, of 1831;
a consideiable part of the road in Ohio had been finished and in uge
some time. It was rapidly going to ruin. The general government hnade no appropriations, and took no other step to keep it in
repair.' "There was no prospect of any such provision being made.
The same course had been puisued in regard to the road east of the
Ohio river, and large sections of it were nearly impassable. Under
these circumstances, the state of Ohio came forward and proposed
to take charge of the road within her limits, and keep it in repair
upon the terms specified inthe act referred to. Congress immediately assented, and the state thereupon took charge of the road.
This act provided for a loan of'money to the road fund. Such loans
have been frequently aade since for repairs; and inotwithstanding
that the tolls have been repeatedly e:tended and enlarged, both as
to objects and rates, the ro~a is at this time largely in debt, and y6t
needs constant and large repairs. With all the tolls now levied
upon it, including the important item in controversy in this suit, the
road isa heavy bukden to the state, and has required, and'still requires unremitted vigilance and effort to prevent it from becoming
an entire ruin.
Treating-the question under consideration as anopen one, I lay
down two propositions:
1st. That the state has as broad a, right to levy and collect tolls
upon this road, as if it had been constructed by her, without .the
United-State having been in any wise connected with it; subject,
however, to this perpetual and only restriction-that the whole
amount collected shall be neither more nor less than sufficient to
meet the costs and charges, direct and - incidental, of keeping the
road in repair.
2d. That the levying of toll upon passengers conveyed in mailcoaches is not in conflict wiih the proviso in the 4th section of the
act of 1831-" that no toll shall be collected-for the passage of any
stage or coach conveying the Uiited States mail, or horses bearing
the same."
If the first of these propositions be sound, the second is not material in this case. I rely,-however, confidently upon both.
1. As to the first proposition.
It has been shown alr~ady.that C.ongress consented unqualifiedly
to all the provisions of the act of the legislature of February 4, 1831,
For the sake -of clearness and continuity of view, at the hazard
of being tedious, I will here again quote the 15th section of that act.,
It is the, turning point of this- case.
E Sect. 15. That it shall be lawful for the Genelal 4ssembly at
any future session thereof, withbut the assent of Congress, to 6hange,
-

732

SUPREME COURT..
Neil, Moore & Co. v. The State of Ohio.

-

alter or amend; this act, provided the same shall not be so changed,
altered or amended,- as to reduce or increase-the rates of toll hereby
established,' below or above-a sum necessary to defray the expenses
incident to the preservation and repair of said road, to the erection
of gates and toll-houses thereon, and foi -the payment of the fees -or
salaries of the superintendent, the collectors of tolls, and of such
other .agents -as may be necessaily employed in the preservation
,and repair of the Lame, acc6rding to the true intent and meaning of
this act."
First.. The power '"to change, alter, or amend," is given in the
broadest' language. What is the irestriction? Simply that "the
rates -oftoll" thereby, established, -shall not be reduced or increased
"(below or above a sumfa necessary" for the preservation and, repair
of the road. This is the only restriciion upon the power of the
state. The object, of both parties -was to preserve the road. Congress asked'no guaranty beyond, this, and the state gave none. To'
secure the preservation of the road, and atfthe same time, to. get rid
of the -jmrdeh, was the inducement to -the general government.' To
prevent the destruction of the road, -and to provide the means of
preserving it, from Iie. road itself, wa§ the purpose of the state.
Such being the nly restriction upon the power of the state, whenever any act is done.by her, the validity of which is qiiestioned, the
frue mode of arriving at a sound conclusion,. is to inquire -hether
it is- within this restriction. IF,
it be not, however'l mwise or impolitic it may be, it is as valid as any oiher act of the state.
Since th p'assage -ofthe act of 1831, various 6bects, not enumerated in it, have been subjected -to toll'; but it is admitted Mi-the
agreed facts, that the '5rates" of all the ,tolls 'are neither. above nor
below the sum prescribed in theact. Passengers in one of the lines,
of m~il-coachestre a part of Athese 'objects, Are they within this
.restriction? Suppose the -stages and horses carrying the mail had,
in 'like manner been embraced in these objects, and subjected to
toll, as upon - other turnpike- roads'; how. could they be said to be
within a restriction, which does not allude to them in the most distant manner, and -which relates to a wholly dife~rent subjecf?
It may possibly be contended that the provisb in this section is
confined to the rates of toll upon the objects enumerated in*that act.
If it be so, it is immaterial in this case.. ',Th tolls in that act have
been :repeatedly"increased, but never reduced.- If this constiuction
b& adopted, then the agreed fact, that all the tolls (including these
upon new objecti) are neither "below nor above the suin-required
to be'collected, is an immaterial matter.. - 'Wiichever construction.
be adopted, it is clhar that levying toll upon an.object not subjected
to .toll by the act of 1831, is not within this, restriction.
- The literal meaning of this proviso may possibly be
suggested,
Vut a few words will be sluficient to'show that such is not the pror
per construction. If it were, this absurd "consequencewould follow;
-

JANUARY .TERM, 1845.
Neil, M'oore & Co. v. The State.of Ohio.

the state may raise the tolls upon the objects specffied in the act so high as to yield a sum .ufficient to keep thc r6ad in repair: and in
addition, levy any-afaount of tolls upon other objects, and apply it
to other purposes.
To insist upon such a construction, would be about as rational as
for the defendant in error to- Eiontend5 that .coaches carrying a part
of thp mail are not withiih thoterms and meaning of the clause exempting from toll coaches carrying the mail. ,
If we look-beyond the letter. of the proviso to the context -of the
act, no doubt can remain as to -its true- meaning.. Either construction, however affects the defendant in error alike, and-suits equally
with the vie'ws here presented.
After this examination of the subject, can it be doubted; that it
was the intention of both parties, when the acts of 1831 ware passed,
that the s~tate shoula have all the power claimed for-it.in this proposition, subject.only to the r estricron- mentioned.
Second, The act of February 4, 1831, contains a proviso, at the
end of the -1st section, and two at the close of the 4th section, to:
whicb, in connection, I desi're to call the"attention of the .courtThe'first provides that the number of gates on the road shall not
exceed one for every twenty miles.
The second exempts'from, toll, _persoris passing to orffrom public
worship; 'or, to or from musters; or, to or fom their-commdn "business on their farms or woodlands; or, to or from -a fulteral ; or, to, or
from a mill; or, to or from .their common places of trading, or
market, incltding their carriages and horses, or. oxen drawing the
same.
The third exempts from toll, any stage or-coach .conveying the.
mail of the United Sthtes, and the horses- drawing the same; any
wagon or carriage laden with the property of the United States; any
cavalry or-other troops of the United States -arms or military stores
belonging to the United States; arms or military stbres belonging to
anyIof the states, or to any person on duty in the military service.,
of the United States, or of the militia of any of the'states.
Alltese provisoes stand upon the same fodting. They are alike
obligatdry as to duration and .inviolability.
If the statedan, $ alter, amend, or change" any of.'them, she can
all. She' can abrogate all or none. - Alifor-none were intended to
be'perpetal and unalterable..
"
The state has found it necessary, besides increasing the rates of
.toll,.to increase,the number of gates. There, are .gates now eve'ryten miles, and, in some instances, "half gti" at the end of five
miles.
She has abrogated the exemption fro n toll in'favour of those
going to mill; market, and their common places of trading.
.he has abrogated nearly all the other exemptions. ' That in favour of -mail-coaches an-.horses is one of the few left.
3Q
-

734

SUPREME COURT.
Neil, Moore & Go. v.. The State of Ohio.

Was it a violation of the-act of 1831 to erect these gates, and
abrogate these exemptions? Was it within the restriction contained in the 15tli section-?
Have not -all those passing the additional gates, and all those
going to- mill, market, or their usual places of trading, much more
ground for complaint than the plaintiffs. in error?
Can they resist the payment of the new tolls imposed upon them?
If the state had a right to make these changes in the act of 1831,
and to abrogate these exemptions, his she, not he same right to
abrogite the remaining exemption as to mail-coaches, whenever she
-may think pi-oper to do so ? Wherein lies the difference, and how
are the cases distinguished ?
It.will be observed that -these -exemptions contain no words of
perpetuity.
The part of the statute which.contains them is separated from the
part containing tle-power'to alter and amend.and rest-icting it, by
ten intervening. sections, which are wholly silent upon the subject.
If it had been'the intention of the legislature that* this exemption a to mail-coaches and-horses should be perpetual, would there
not have beehi added, at the end of the 15th. section, after the other
perpetual restriction which it contains, a-clause -like this:
"And provided also, That no toll shall ever be collected from
any stage-coach carrying the mail. of the United States, nor'from the
horses drawing the same'"
Nothing of this kind is to be found in any part of the act;
I think these views fully sustain the first proposition.
12. As to the second proposition.
The ground upon which the plainitiffs in error mainly rely , is, I
understand, that passengers conveyed in coaches carrying the mails'
are within the proviso of the f6urth -section ,of the act 6f 1831.
which exempts the coach and horses from toll; and consequently
that such passengers are exempted also.
If.-this were do, I think I have shown, that it was in the power
.of the legislature at any tiiime to abrogate all or any part of this
-exemption, and if it were necessary, I might safely contend that as
respects such passengers, the legislature has done -so.
But I rely confidently. upon the proposition, that such passengers
.are not within this -exemption.
In the year 1835, the Supreme Court-of.Ohio-,.in bank, in a case
betwieri'ihe same parties, (adverted: to elsewhere in this argument
Sin aiother connection,) delivered- the following unanimous judgment upon this point:
"First, then, is the act of the General Assembly imposing this
tol, unconstitutibnal? Or, in other words, is it a tax, on the coach
itself, 6alciilatea in-its consequences to impede or obstruct the conveyance of the United States mail? We hold the negative. The
coach -thehores., the drivers,. and the propriet.ors are exempte4 in

JANUARY TERM, 1845.
Neil, Moore & Co.-v. The State of Ohio.

express terms. But it is said that contracts for the transportation.
of the mail were made in reference to the conveyande of fpassengem. Such may have been: the case. The .postmaster-gendral.is
not authorized, however, to make any caontract exempting passengers, either-in coaches, or on foot, from the payment of toll. His
contracts can extend only to the mail, and the mode -of its conveyance. The 'defendants have the right to the road secured to them
by.the acts of Congress, and of the Assembly, free from toll for
such carriages, horses, and attendants, as may. be necessary to enable them fully to comply with their contracts; but. when they
attempt to go,beyond -this,, and resort to means to increase their
profits,. not necessari y connected with their contracts, they, like
others, are rightfully subjected to the inconvenience of paying the
toll, which the convenience of a good road imposes.
11-The proposition cannot, we think, be maintained, that passengers are necessary for the conveyance of the* mail, and if they are
not, a tax on them is, in fio light in which the subject can be
viewed, a tax on the coach itself, nor calculated, in its consequences,
to impede or obstruct the transportation of the mail.'
State of
Ohio v. Neil & Moore, 7 Ohio Rep. 133.
This opinion was adhered-to and deliberately affirmed~in the case
at bar. The reasoning of the court seems to me to be conclusive. It
covers the whole ground of the objections urged by the plaintiff; in
error. Furher discussion can add little to it force-. I should not
feai to rest tlis part of the case. entirely upon it. The -proposition
which it maintains, however 6ssailed, requires, I think, little eftort
to-support it. It seems'to.me to be such, as almost to present one
of those cases, in which." the truth is discoverable by its own'light
without the aid of 'argument."
This toll is levied, not upon the plaintiffs in error, but upon the
passengers-conveyed. in their coaches. If those from whom it is
exacte pay it, surely it is no burden upon -thqse who conrey
them. The latter are not compelled to pay it, unless .they assume
it. Stripped of all circumlocution, th language of the plaintifls
in error is, in eftect, this; Allow us to receive this toll, instead of
the -state, and the'mail Will be carried at less cost to the, Post-office
Department. The same reasoning upon which they rely, would
apply equally to every thing else they may chdose to carry in their
mall-coaches,.oi, indeed, in any other vehicle in which they may
carry a part of the mail,- with the sanction of the postmaster-general, The answer is, that the general government has not asked,
and that the state had not-conceded, any such exemption. I do not
see but that the same argument would apply with equal force to any
other toll colleted on the road. Give to the plaintiffs in error any
other toll, and. undoubtedly they would carry the mail at so much
less cost to the governmet.-The circle of this argument is wide
enough to include every toll levidd upon the road. If we depart
-

1 6

COURT.
SUPREME
I
"Neil,
Mioore & Co. v. The Sta-te of Ohio.

fron _14e construction of -this exexiption, contended f6r by the defendant in error, where, shall the depiarture be limited?
Aiiother act of the legislature of Ohio provides, that " all boats"
belonging\to the United States 1 shall be permitted to navigate
either of .the canals-of this state, free. from the payment of tolls."
38 Ohio LaWs-81. Does this exemption of the boat from. toll,
exempt frdm tll also the lading upon it belonging to private individtials ? Ifti e exemption of the coach exempts the passengers,
-why does notthe exemption of the boat also exempt the lading?
Before and t tfe time of the passage of the act. of 1831, it was
usul"\ to convey passengers in mail-coaches on the
no more CC
National .road, then it was before and at the time of the passage of
n t
this law,'to transport, lading in boats upon the canal.
.necessary, it is' useffll" in the same manner. Were the boat removed, by contract, from pdint to:point'up6n the canal, the exemption: of the lading -would asuiu&hlesse# the.cost of the remov~l of
'&e goat, as-the xempti6n. of the passengers would-lessen the cost
'of'the transportation of the mail. Were the hoat a mail-boat, 'the
exemption of- the lading would be much more important to the
United States than the exemption-of -passengers as claimed in this
case\ \Ladingis as -closely associated -with the idea of a boat upon
the cal, as passengeri a're with that of a mail-coach on the National road. The term boat as much includes lading, ais the term
mail-coach 'does passengers. I ani aware of no arguinent applicable to one, th does not apply equally to the.other. In my apprehension the parallel is perfect.
To insist seriously that the exemption of the boat 6xempts the'lding; would probably be deemed by all a gross absurdity." Does
not this claim of the plaintiffs in error, by the clearest analogy, embrace that case-afid le~d'to this result?
A proposition leading to a consequence so absurd, must, itself,
necessarily be unsound. -"
It will be observdd that the decision of the Supreme Court in
1835 was madi bef6re the.plaintiffs-in error entered into the dontract
with the postmaster-general, which was- in ex-istdade wien this
cause of action arose.. That contract was made; and this liability
incurred, of .cours6, with fulllknowledge of that de6ision.
It will also be observed that the-objection.to the toll -in question
does not come from the general. gbvernmert,'which is said to be
laid, but from the-aggrieved, nor from-those upon'whom the toll .is
mail contractors,-who have voluntarily-assdtied a Vicarious responsibility for their passengers, and patriotically seek in. this suit, unbidden, to vindicate the violated -rights of the United States.
jU.pon what consideration this is done, it is not material to inquire
-Since the foregoing-was -written, I have see'd the argument of the
plaintiffs in error. It renders a few additional remarks nedessary..

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

737

.Neil, Moore & Co. v. The State of Ohio.

It is not denied that it was within the power of Congress to sur-render the road to the state upon any terms that might be agreed
upon. The -whole quaetion is, What were the terms ? They are to
be found inhe 16th section of the act of 1831. There is the "dontract." The power to "alter, change, and amend," is, (as befor6
remarked,) unlimited by "any qualification," except as to the
amount to be collected. Mr. Ewing's argument would change the
contract, and impose a bondition which ip contrary both. to the terms
and implication of the agreement. In order to warrant his construction of this act, it would be necessary (as suggested in the preceding
argument) to "dislocate" the proviso upon which hd relies from its
place in the 4th section, and, thrusting it over the ten intervening
sections, interpolate, it as a second proviso at the end of the 15th
section. Otherwise, it is clear that the construction for which he
contends is both grammatically and logically incorrect. It is only
by confusing these provisoes together, and losing sight of their different -and relative places in the context, that any doubt can ariseion
this point.
It is admitted that it was competent for the state to abrogate all.
the exemptions contained in the 4th section, except that relating to
mail-coaches. The distinction attempted to be established between
that and those which precede it, is unwarranted by any principle of
construction wit which I am acquainted. They stand upon the
same footing, and are all alike alterable or unalterable.
When the act of 1831 was -passed, the legislature obviously believed that the road, with all'the ,exemptions specified in the 4th
section, would yield a sum sufficient for its preservation. But as
the experiment was an untried one, the state was willing to bind
herself by no restriction whatever, but that the sum collected should
he neither more nor less than suffi*ient to keep the road in repair.
Her experience has shown the wisdom of this caution. .
The act of February 6th, 1837, imposes a t611 at each gate, of
three cents, upon the passengers in question. The act of March
19th, 1838, authorizes the Board of Public -Works to "revise" the
rates of all the tolls-" to be paid' by persons passing on, or using,
the National road." In. the exercise of this power the board has
raised the toll in controversy from three to ten cents. It is admitted
that they have not transcended the limitation dontained in the 15th
section of the act of 1831. Their action, then, is "according to the
true intent and meaning of the act of February 4th, 1831." The
legislature used the language-just quoted in the act of 1838, oh-viously with a view to the restriction contained in the 15th section'
of the act of 1831, and not, as intimated in argument of the plaintiff in error, for the purpose of submitting the question to the board,
as an open one-whether the act of 1831 permitted such a toll to be
exacted. That question had been determined by both the legislature and the Supreme Court. The duty devolved upon the'board
VOL. III.--93
3 Q2

738-

SUPREME COURT.
Neil, Moore & C-o. -r.The State of Ohio.

was, -to "revise," upon the principles 'indicated, the pte-existing
tolls.
It'is said that the state still exempts from toll the two lines of mailcoaches, and the passengvrs .conveyed -inone of them.
:This is true; and- the exemption, is practically larger and more
injurious to the fund arising from -the road,, than it, was when the
act of 1831'took effect.. Then,- the exemption was cojnfined to one
line, of coaches and the passengers •conveyed in it. How long the
state will be able -to coiitinue this exemption in its present extent,
will depend upon 'the amount of expenditure necessary to keep the
road in repair: She is bound by her contract with the Uinited States
to collect this amount. The sum constantly increases as the road
becomes more worn. Her forbearance during the few years which
has elapsed since she took charge of the road, can sirely fford no
argument against anyright to whiqh-she is-entitled under.a fair con-'
struetion of the act of cession. '
It is said, also, that this *road "is a post -road established by
law."

Admitting this to be so, in my view of the subject it -does not
affect the question under, consideration. But the assumption is
erroneous: Congress.has designated the points there post-offices
shall be established, and directed the, mail to be conveyed to them;
but the road is not specified upon which it shall be conveyed.
This, then, is no more "a post road established by-law," than anyother road over which the mail is carried. Indeed, the power to
establish post roads, it is said, has never been exercised by Congress
in any instance. 3 Story's Const. 43.
-Whenever this pbwer shall be exercised either as respects state
roads already existing, or those~to be constructed for that purpose by
the general governinent, a host of new nd most difficult questions
will at once arise between the several states and the United States.
A glance atjthe learned work refeired to will show them. It is unnecessary to consider any of them here.
This not being a post. road established by law, the argument
founded upon that assumption falls to the ground.
It may, however, be contended, that this and all other roads upon
which the mail is conveyed, are established as post rbads by necessary implication from the acts of Congress establishing post-offices
upon them, and dire6ting the mail to be conveyed to such offices.
If so, the answer is qbvious. -If
the United States bul in the property of a debtor in satisfaction of a judgment, such. property-is still
able to'taxationby the state. Abranch of-the Bank of the United
States was not liable -to be taxed, but the real estate held by the
bank, which the branch occupied, was so liable.
It has never been questioned that the coaches and horses belonging to the contraitor, which he uses in the transportation of the mai,
are -liable to taxation by-the state, like all other individual property;,

JANUARY TERM/ 1845.

739 -

Xeil, Moore & Co. v. The Sfate of Ohio.

and-if the contractor convey the mail upon a turnpike. on which toffs
are collected, he is liable to the sami tolls as other persons. The
power to levy such taxes and collect such tolls, is within the exceptions distinctly iecognised in all the cases decided by this 6ourtdn
which this subject has been considered. 4 Wheat. 316; 9 Wheat.
867; 12 Wheat. 136; 2 Peters, 46; 16 Peters, 442.
The argument upon the other side is broad enough to maintalnthe proposition, that such. coaches and horses are exempted both
from-taxation. and toll.
Whenever the. general government uses the instrumentality of
private means to effiect its objects, such means are liable to taxation
or toll, .as the case may be, to the same extent as if they were. employed in, the business of private individtials. This reasoning applies
as much to this road as to any other; and the case must necessarily
turn upon other points.
It is streiubusly contended, that the'exemption ofthe coaches and
horses from toll, exempts also the passengers as an "incident."
It will be readily perceived by the court, that if the argument of
the defendant in erro.r fail on all the other points, yet, "unless the
plaintiff in error succeed in maintaining'this proposition, the judgment below must be affirmed."
If my recollection serves me correctly,.it is not many years since
the transportation of passengers in the mail lines, on the great routes,
was greatly restricted, if not entirely prohibited, by the head of the
.Post-office Department. Does he contract for the conveyance of
passengers? Is that a matter about which the government concerns
itself? The letter of the postmaster-general in this case sets up no
such claim as is insisted upon by the plaintiff in error, 'and manifests,
no interest in the subject.
It has been held by this court,,that a branch of the Bank of the
United States was not liable to taxation by a state, bu.that the stock
in the bank, held by a* citizen of the state, was. 4Wheat. 316.
Was-not the argument for the exemption of the stock 1irthat cas6
much stronger than the argument for the exeniption of the -passengers here? The analogy is too obvious to need comment. If he
right claimed to collect toll from passengers be sustained, it isapprehended that "the state might tax at its tol-gati, even to prohibition,
a guard passing upona coach carrying the mail." The connection
between the mail and the coach, horses, driver, and guard, is certainly very different from that which subsists between the mail-and
the passengers.* No right has been-asserted by the legislature to
collect toll from the proper incidents of the mail up6n this road.
When such a case shall occur, it will be early enough to adjudicate
upon it. The question in this case is a very different one. It relates
solely to"passengers.
For a fuller examination. bf 'this point, I refer to the preceding
argument.

740

SUPREME COURT.
Neil, Moore & Co. v. The State of Ohio.

Eu ng, in reply.
I have said in the opening argument, that the National road in
a post
Ohio was, at the tin of the transfer to that state, and still is,
road. This is denied by Mr. SWiane.
Acts of Congress, passed every four years since its construction,
direct that the mail shall be carried daily from town to town, (as
from Wheeling to Zanesville, and thence to Columbus,) which towns
are upon the National road. -The agreed case shows that the mail
was so carried upon said road ever since its conslruction. The usage
applying the law to this road-, and the- subsequent laws coinciding
with the usage, the reservation in the contract of the right fo transport the iail along the road, and, its subsequent.continued transportation, make it, I contend, as fully a post road, as if it had been
expressly declaredso by act of Congress.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case has arisen out-of tivo acts of Assembly, passed by the.
legislature of Ohio, one in 1837' and the other in 1838; and an order of the Board of Public Works of that state, whereby a toll has
been imposed upon passengers travelling in the mail.:stage on the
Ciimberland road.
We have already, at the present term, fully expressed the opinion
of this court, in relation to the compacts between the United'Stateg
and the states of Ohio, Pennsylvania,' Maryland, and ,Virginia, concerning this road, and the rules by which they ought to be interpreted- It is only necessary, therefore, on this occasipn, to apply the
principles there.stated to- the case before us.
The material parts of the laws in question are the 4th section of
the act of 1837, and the 24th section of the act of 1838. The first
imposes a toll of three cents on.every passenger in the mail-stage, at
each toll-gate; and the second,authorizes the Board of Public Works
to revise and mddify the rates of toll to-be paid by persons using the
road; and in pursu ance of this authority the board passed an order
raising the toll- on each passenger in -the mail-stage to ten cents.
But no toll is'charged, either by the law or the .order of the board,
upon persons travelling in any other carriage.
The 4th section of the act of 1831, whereby the state of Ohio proposed, with the assent of Congress,. to take charge of the road and
keep it in repair, contains a specific enumeration of the tolls she intended to charge.upon carriages of every description, and other property; and after making his enumeiation, the section concludes with
the foll6wing proviso: "That no toll should be received or collected for the passage of any stage or coaph conveying the United States
mail, orhorses'learing the- same, or any wagon or carriage laden
with the property of the United States, or any cavalry or other
troops, arms or military stores belonging to -the same or to any of
the states comprising this union, or any persori or persons on' duty

JANUARY TERM, 184f5.

.741

Neil, Moore & Co. v. The State of Ohio.

in the military service of the'United States, br of the militia of-any
of the states." -,
We shall hereafter speak of the.5th etion of this act, which has
been supposed to justifythe toll in 'question. But, subject to the
-modifications, if any, authorized by that-section, the enireG ontract
in relation to the tolls, offered by the state and acceptea'by'.Yon,
gress, is to be found in the 4th; the residue of the act con-tai.
nothing more than detailed regulations foi the collection and appli'-cation of the tolls.
At the time'this compact was made, it was well known that th6
mail was always transported by contractors, and -that wheneverit-.
was.conveyed in carriages, the vehicles belonged-t6 them, and were
their* own private property, and not the property of the United
States. It was equally well known that upon this road, as. well ag
many others, the postmastei-general, in his contracts, uniformly required that the mail stiould be carried in a stage or coach capable
of accommodating a certain number -ofpassengers, the presence of
the passengers being regarded as adding to the safety of the mail,
and superseding the necessity of any other guard.
This mode of transporting the mail Xnust have been perfectly'.,
known to the state in 1831, when the-agreement was made; and in.
providing for the exemption of carriages conveying the United States
mail, both parties must hav'e ijtended to exempt the vehicles usually
employed in that service; and' that carriages belonging to the contractors, although carrying passengers, were:to pay no toll, while all
other vehicles were to be charged at the rate specified'in the law.
The reason of this exemption is evident; for a toll charged upon the,
carriages of the contractor would, in effect, be a charge upon the
Post-office 'Department, since the contractor w6uld be -obliged to
make provision for this expense when bidding for the contract, and
re-late his bid so as to cover it.
* In the proposition made by Ohio, nothing was said of a toll on
the passengers in a carriage of any kind, but the charge is made upon
the carriage itself, according to its description, and the number of
horses, without any regard to the number of persons that may be
travelling in: it; and it is evident that it was at that time supposed
that the rates specified and agreed'on would prove sufficient to keep
the road'in repair, and.that -the United States would always thereafter have the free use of it, for mail-carriages "of the usual kind,
without any burden upon them, direct or indirect;
If the expectations of the parties had been re'alized,. and the tolls
mentioned in. the law had produced revenue enough to preserve the
road, n6 one, we think, ould have supposed that t611s could'be
collected from passengers in the mail-stage, or that the specified'
charges upon the carriages could have been reduced, and the deficiency supplied by a toll upon persons travelling in the carriages
which conveyed the mail.,

SUPREIME COURT.

742
Nei)

Moore & 0o. v. The State of Ohio.

In the case of Searight v. Stokes and others, we have alrdady
said, that with an agreement like this before us between the United
States and a state, we must look'at the relation in which the parties
stood to one another, as well as to the subject-matter of the contract,.
.and the object which the high contracting parties intended to attain;
and we must expound it upon principles of justice, so as to accomplish the purposes for which it was made, and not defeat their manifest intenion, by a narrow and literal ifiterpretation of its wordi.
And regarding it in this point of view, we think it very clear that
no part ofthe burden of supporting this road was intended to be'
levied upon 'the United States, but was to be obtained altogether
from other sources; and- that te relative position and privileges of
the mail-coaches in -regard to tolls, as prescribed i the law, were
to be always afterwards maintained, unless a deficiency or superabundance of revenue should render it nedessafy to increase or diminish the rates fixed in the law. Fbr if this were not the case, the
whole detailed and pai'ticular provision in relation to the things to
be charged, and' the rates to be imposed, as set forth in the law-of
Ohio, and so cautiously recited in the act of Congress consenting
to the. surrender of the road, would .be nugatory and without an
object. On the. other hand, this mode of proceeding was the natural
and proper one, where two sovereignties were contacting with
ech other by means of legislative 'action; and it was obviously
adopted by the parties in this 'instance in order ta show the ternis
proffered by Ohio, and assented to by Congress, and forms the'conditions of the compact between them, so far as their respective rights
were concerned.
We proceed to apply these principles to the question before u§
The law-of the state, and the order of its.Board of PublicdWorks,
impose a toll'upon every one travelling in the mail-stage, while the
passengers in every other.vehicle are allowed to go free.. If this can
be done,*it is manifest that'the United States will derive no benefit
from the compact, and' so far from enjoying the privilege for which
they stipulated, and for which they paid so heavily in the construction of the road, a large portion-of the" burden of repairs will be
thrown upon them. This is strikingly illustrated by pomparing the
toll charged upon coaches similar to those employed in conveying
the mails, with the toll -indirectly-levied upon the mail-stage, by a
charge upon its passengers.- According to the rates contained in
the law of which we are speaking, a four-wheel chrriage, drawn by
four horses, pays at each gate-thirty-one .and a quarter cents, and if
it is not conveying the mail, it pays nothing on its passengers. This
sum is therefore the whole. amoint of the toll to which'it 'is liable.
Now the mails 6n this road have, we 'understand, been, always
trangported in coaches. of the above'description, and'although under
the order of the Board of Public Works no toll is charged directIy
upon the carriage, 'yet every passeng6r must pay ten cents at each

JANUARY. TERM, 1845.

743

Neil, Moore & Co. v. The State of Ohio.

gate,. so that the carriage of a mail-contractor, containing six pas.
sengers, pays nearly double as much as a like carriage owned by
any one else with the same number: And what still more strongly
marks the disadvantages to which the-United States are subjected by
this order of the board, these passengers may be persons in the service of the United States, passing along the road in the execution of
some public duty, for the order makes no exceptions in their favour.
And although, this toll, in form, is laid upon the passengers and not
upon the vehicle, the result is the same; for in either case it is, in effect, a charge upon the proprietor of the carriage, diminishing his profits in that portion of his business; and when thus levelled exclusively at passengers in the mail-stage, it accomplishes indirectfy what
evidently cannot be done directly by a toll upon thecarriage, and in its
consequences must seriously affect the interests of the United States.
For in bidding for a contract upon a road so much travelled as this,
the bidder would undoubtedly be greatly influenced by th6,advantages which a contract would-give him in the conveyance of passengers, as his cairiages, when carrying the mail, are entitled to go free.
But if they, and they alone, are to be subjected to this burdensome
and unequal toll, it is obvious that he must seek to reimburse himself, by enlarging his demand upon' the government. Indeed, if this
system of levying toll can be sustained, the mischief may not stop
here; and it will be in the power of any one of the states through
which the road passes so to graduate the tolls as to drive all passengers from the mail-stages into other lines, and by that means compel
the United States) contrary to their wishes, and contrary to the'public interest, to transport the mails in vehicles in which no passenger
would travel.
Nevertheless we do not mean to deny the right of the state to
impose a toll upon passengers in the mail-stages, provided, the
power is exercised, in a manner and upon principles, consistent
with the spirit and'meaning of the argument by which the road was
transferred to the care of the states. On the contrary, in the case of
Searight v. Stokes and others, we have already said that such a toll
may be lawfully collected. But as no toll on passengers had been
proposed by the law of Pennsylvania, the opinion, on that occasion,'
is expressed in general terms, as to .the right; the case then under
consideration, not calling upon the court to speak more particularly
upon the subject. The Ohio law, however, brings the question
directly before us, and makes it necessary to state more. fully and
precisely the opinion'of the court.
The true meaning of the compact we understand to 1e this. The
carriages carrying the mail, with their passengers, travelling in the
known and customary manner, were to pass toll free, as well as
other vehicles laden with tb"t property of the-United States and the
persons employed in their service, as mentioned in the proviso
hereinbefore recited; and the road was to he kept in repair by the

744"

SUJPREME C O URT.
Neil, Moore & Co. v. The 9tate of Ohio.

,revenue derived from the.tolls specified in the Ohio law, according
to the rates there-setjforth, provided they should prove to be sufficint'for the pprpose. N6 toll was at that time, proposed upon(
passengers in any vehicle,j.nd passengers in the mail-stage therefore had -no peculiar privilege in going free, -and. merely passed
along the road upon the same terms withthose who were travelling in
other cairriages. And-as the compact contains no stipulation for the
exemption of travellers"in the mail-stages, the general government
'candemand no,advaiitages in their behalf, which are not extended
to passengers in other veicles. But they have a right to insist that
the, equality upon this subject, which, the law of Ohio originally piopqsed, shall still be .maintaine'i; that the privilege and advantages
intended to be secured to the carriages conveying the" mail, over
those granted to other yehicles, shall be preserved in substance and
reality as well as in form; and that the passengers in the mailstages shall notbe selected and set apart, as the especial objects
upon which burdens are to be laid, and.to which travellers in other
carriages are not to'be subjected.
If,
therefore, the'revenle from the road, acqording t6"the rates
originally agreed on, was found tobe inadequate, then the state had
undoubtedly a right to increase the rate on any thing before subject
to toll; or might, if it was deemed more advisable, leave the tolls as
they stood, and charge in addition to them a toll on passengers.
And if instead of selecting the persons travelling in the mail-coaches,
ad laying the burden exclusively upon them, all passengers m
vehicles of any.kind had been equally charged, the real and substantial advantages and 'privileges to-Which, the United States are
entitled under the agreement wd'uld have'been preserved, and the
equality in relation to passengers originally exiptipg between the
mail-coacbes and 'other carriages would not have been disturbed.
And it is in this manner only,. in'our judgment, and as a toll in
addition to that specifically stated, in"the contract, and imposed
equally.upon passengers in every description of vehicle, that persons
travelling in the mail-stages can be lawfully charged, without first
obtaining the assent of Congress.
The 15th section of the law of 1831 has been relied on in the
argument, as reserving to the state the right to make any alteration
it might afterwards think proper without regard to the interest of
the general government. It is true that this section begins with a
,declaration that it shall be lawful for the General Assembly at any
future session, -without the assent of Congress, to change, alter, or
amend the act. But this clause evidently relates -to the various
provisions made in the law for the collection'and disbursement of
the money arising from the tolls proposed to be charged. The
United States could have no interest in these details, 'and they were
therefore properly retained in the hands of the state. And so in'regard
to the privilege of passing free on certain occasions, given by the-

3ANUARY TERM, 1845.

745

Neil4 Moore & Co. v. Th.e State of Ohio.

law, it is undoubtedly in the power of the state, if it thinks proper,
to revoke it, since the exemption was a mere voluntary act, founded
on no valuable consideration, but growing -out of what was then
supposed to be' a just and liberal policy, which the state could
afford to exercise; but which it had the right to change whenever
it was deemed necessary to do so. But a full and valuable considerationr had been paid, by the United States for the privileges
reserved to them, and they were a part of the contract which transferred the -road to the care of the state. And this being the case,
-the section in question cannot by any sound rule of construction be
regarded as inconsistent with the c6ntract contained in another part
of the same law., and 4s placing the rights secured to one party
entirely at the discretion and the control of the other. The reservations of power to the state, evidently relate to subjects in which
the general government had no separate interest; and they would
have, been altogether unnecessary and useless if the state had not
considered the preqeding part of the law as the proffer of a com-'
pact which was to be obligatory upon it, if assented to by Congress.
There is a clause in -the law of 1837, which would appear to distinguish between the mail-stages, in relation to -toll, where more
than one mail passed along the road on the, same day. Upon this
point it may be proper to say, that, in the opinion of the court it
where
postmaster-general,
rests altogether in the discretion of the
at
Congress, to determine
on him byplaces
conferred
beenshall
the power
what
hourshas
the mail
leave particular
and arrive at others;
and to determine whether it shall leave the same place only once a day
or more frequently. Upon this point his decision is absolute, when
the discretion is committed to him by the laws of the United States,
and cannot be controlle'd by a'state or- by the courts. And in the
case of Searight v. Stokes and others, when the court speak of
abtises by the contractors in the number of carriages employed, and
of th right'of -the court to enforce the compact, it will be seen by
a reference to the opinion; that it is confined to cases where the
mail-bags, directed to leave the post-office at the same time, are unnecessarily divided among a number of carriages in order to evade
the payment of tolr; and the opinion expressed on that occasion by
th6 codrt does not apply to stages leaving the post-office with mails
at different hburs, in obedience to the orders of the department. In
the latter caseit is immaterial ivhetherthe mails are light or heavy.
The postmaster-general is, upon this subject, the proper and only
judge of what the public interest and convenience requires, and his
decision cannot be questioned by the courts.
The provision Upon this subject, however, appears to have been
intended to guard against abuses by contractors, rather than to interfere with the powers of the 1ostmaster-general. And in regafd
to the toll imposed, as hereinbefore mentioned, if it is necessary for
the support of the road, it is in the power of the parties to the com3R
VoL. LI.-494

746

SUPREME COURT.,
Neil, Moore & Co. v. "Th-e State of Ohio.

pact to modiy it.
at their Pleasure, and to give the state the power
it has exercised. But aceording to the terms of the contract; as it
was originally, made, and still -stands, the toll- upon passengers in
the mail-stages, laid in the manner-hereinbefore stated, cannot lawfully be demafided, and the judgment of iie state court must therefore be reversed.
Mr. Justice DANIEL.
From the decision just pronounced on behalf of the majority of
the court, I am constrained *todissent. - Upon the principles revolved
in the decision, so far as they have been assumed as the foundation
of rights in the federal government,- or in the postmaster-general as
its agent or representative, independently of-any agreement with the
state of Ohio, my opinion has already been declared. That opinion
was expressed on a similar point arising, in the case of Searight v.
Stokes et al., during the present termr'; it is unnecessary, therefore,
on this occasion to repeat it. With respect to- the compact which
is said to have been made between the federal government and the
state of Ohio, by the act of Congress relinquishing the control of the
Cumberland road to the state, and -bythe act of the Ohio legislature,
assuming the control aid management of that road; it has not to my
mind been shown that this compact has in any respect been violated
by the state. A cursory view of the legislation, both by the state
and by Congress, will establish the very converse of any such inference. That the sdveral proceedings on the part of the state steer
entirely clear of collision with the letter of that compact, has not, so
far as I have heard, been even disputed. The statute of Ohio,
passed on the 4th'of February, 1831, after several provisions-Ist,
investing the goverior of the state with power to take., under his
care-that .portion of the Cumberland road comprised within the limits
of the-state; 2dly, prescribing 'the rates of .toll to be collected;
Bdly, laying down regulations for the police of the road; contains
in the second proviso of the 4th section the following enactment:
"Provided also, that no toll shall be received or collected for the
passage of any .stage or coach carrying the United States mail, or
horses bearing the same, or any wagon or carriage laden with the
property of the United States,-or any cayalry or other.troops, arms
or-military stores belonging to the same, or to any of the states of
the union; or any person or persons on duty: in the military service
of the United States, &c., &c." The .16th section of the same law
is in the following words: "That it shall be lawful for the General
Assembly at any future session thereof, without Uae assent of Congress5 to change, alter, or amend :this act; provided that the same
shall not be so changed, altered, or amended, as to reduce or increase the iates of toll hereby established, below or above a sum
necessary to defray the expenses incident to the preservation and
repair of the said road, to the erection of gates and toll-houses

JANUARY T.EoRM, 1845.

747

Neil, Moore & Co. v.'The State of Ohio.

thereon, and for the payment of the fees or salaries of the superintendent, the collectors of tolrs, and" such other agents as may be
necessarily employbd in the preservation and repair of the same,
according to the true intent and meaning of the act." The act of
-Congress of the 2d of March, 1831, (4 Story's L. U. S. p. 2250,)
is nothing more than a literal recital of the law -of Ohio and an entire and unqualified assent to, and adoption of, that law. These
statutes comprise, all that has been ever done by the state and federal governments, which amounts to -any -thing in the nature of an
agreement or compact between them in reference to the Cumberland.
road.
Let us now
inquire
it is that,
proper construction,
these
laws what
import?
.Andby
it reasonable
should, in and
thfeir-examination, ever be borne in mind, that whatsoever the law of Ohio
has ordained in reference to its subject matter; whatever rights or
* powers it has c]aimed for the state inregard to it, the act of Congress has unconditionally recognised the whole'. The second proviso of the 4th secti6n, already quotedocontains no stipulation: that
ordinary travellers or passengers, or any others-indeed, or any de.scriptions of property, save those expressly enumerated in th6 pro.
viso, all pass upon the road free of toll. It concedes to the federal government that stages carrying the mail, i. e. the carriages and
the horses necessary for' their use, and the mail itself, should not
pay toll;, but with respect to private travellers, and to every thing
vithin or without those carriages, the law. is entirely silent. By
what correct implication, then, can the power of the state to levy
tolls on travellers in such carriages be taken away. I can conceive
of no implication tending to such a result, which would not obviously do violence to the language of the statute, as it would to
every 6orrect iuleof construction, and to eyery intendment consistent -with the natural and plain objects of the law, The fact-that
the state has exacted tolls on passengers in the stages carrying the
mails, only beyond a certain number of carriges so employed, can
by no correct reasoning affect the right of the state in this matter,
however it might be received as a measure either of policy or liberality; for having the power ibsolutel 'to exact tolls of all travellers on the .road not exempted by the provisoi this power carried
'with it, by every sound rule of logic; the right to discriminate between the subjects of her power. She had then a perfect right to
declare that travellers in specified carriages carrying the mail should
pass free of toll, aid that those transported in other vehicles, although
bearing the mail, likewise should be- subjected to the paymefit of
toll. Such a regulation the state had the power to enact, had it
-been the dictate of mere caprice. A correct apprehension, however, of her policy and- interests in reference to this road, and in
reference"to the accommodation of the public,,will develope a more
enlarged and more equitable motive for the measures adopted by
the -state. showing those measure& to have been produced by the
-

-

748

SUPREME COURT.

-

Neil, Moore & Co. v. The State of Ohio.

force of supervening circumstances. It cannot be denied, that in
assuming the management of this road, the purpose of the state was
to maintain and preserve it as a commodious highway. By the
title qf the law passed for itsassumption, viz., "An act for the preservation and repair of the' United States road," as well as by every
clause and provision of that law, this 6bject is clearly evinced. It.
is -equally undeniable, that the means in contemplation for the accomplishment of this object were the usual and natural means by
which artificial highways are supported, viz. the tolls. collectable
on travellers and on property transported upon it. The concession
to the federal government of the free passage .of a portion of its
mails over this road, and of the vehicles in which they might be
carried, was an act of fairness and liberality which should not be
made the pretext for abuse and monopoly, such as must, if permitted, dryup.. the source 'whence -the-means of mdintaining the road
are to be derived, and whieh would oper.te for the exclusive advantage of the favourites of such monopoly, and for thhe serious injury
of the public. To guard -against consequences like these, the'power
reserved by the 15th section of the law of qt831 was retained by
the state, a power xpressly recognised to its full extent by the act
of Congress adopthig the former la*; and it can aslittle be doubted,
that, in the practical experience of those consequences, and in the
intention of applying a remedy for them, the law of Ohio of March
9th, 1838, and the 'order of the Board of Public -Works of the same
state, had their origin.
But it is argued that the exaction of tolls on travellers in stages,
carrying the mails, would be a violation of the compact between the
tvo governmwents, because -it would enhance the demands of contractors for transporting the mail, and thereby become a taxupon
the federaltreasury, aud in the same degree an impediment to the
!conveyance of the mails. It is a sufficient reply to .such an argument to~remark, that neither the law of Ohio nor the act of Con-.
gress adopting -that law, stipulates any exemption from tolls on
travellers, but the exemption is limited to carriages only; and it is
an inflexible rule of contract, too familiar to be commented on here,
that neither party, singly, can superadd a term or condition to a
contract completed. This argument is therefore utterly without
force, even if the effects it seeks to deduce could be demonstrated.
It is fallacious too in another respect. -The monopoly in support
,fwhich'it is adduced, by enabling th6 mail contractor to drive
off all competition, whilst it puts it in his power -to withhold the
.tolls by payment of which the road would be supported, enables
him to practise the very extortions upon the government which
fair competition would be the surest means of pieventing. But conceding, for th moment,'that a denial to thb contiactor of the privilege now contended for, might enhance the price of transporting
the mails, the question still very properly arises, whether.his effect

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

749

Neil, Moore & Co v. The State of Ohio.

(were the language of the law even doubtful) would justify the
extension to him of such a privilege ? A just view of the legislation
of both the state and federal governments, and of the obvious pur.poses of that legislation, must compel a negative answer to this'
question. The purposes designed by this' legislation were the preservation and repair of the National road. Such are the object
announced, not only in the titles of the laws themselves, but provided for in all-their enacting sections; and the quo vodo declared
by these enactments is the levying of tolls. Is it then reasonable
or logical, or rather is it not inconsistent and contradictory, to
attempt to 4educe from them conclusions which fall not within
their terims, but which go to defeat every end: which must have"
been within the contemplation bf the parties.; for which inideed
these enactments all profess to have been made. Is not this attempt
in violation of all rules foy the construction either of statutes or
contracts, which always preserve the main and obvious intentions
of legislators or of contracting parties, to the exclusion of minor
though seemingly contradictory considerations ? But the language
of these laws is by no means equivocal. Except for the exemption
contained in the. sdbond proviso of the 4th section of the Ohio
statute of 1831, all mails and the carriages in which they are transpbrted, the troops, arms, and property of the United States of very
description, would have been suject to the payment of tolls; and
the exemption can be extended no farther than the plain and natural
import of the language of" that proviso will justify.
Again, it has been said, that the exaction of tolls from travellers
by
of thefrom
contract,
in the mail-stages would be a violation
staes, and
those because
excluded
such a demand travellers would be
by this exclusion;
that the safety of the maIls would be endangered
that the travellers are to conargument
To 'this seemingly strange and farit beinga assumed
thethis
mails.
guard to by
stitute
fetched. argument, it might be sufficient to answer, as was done to
the former, that no stipulation for the transportation of such a guard,
(if by any violence to language ordinary casual wayfarers could be
so dehominated,) is contained in the contract ;and that the attempt
thus to introduce any .such stipulation or engraft it upon that
contract, is a palpable and unwarrantable interpolation upon itsterms and its objects.' In the next place, the propounders of this
argument may be challenged to show either the duty or the willingness of such travellers, to:take upon themselves the hazards, the
trouble, or the responsibilities of guarding the United States mails.
'With equal cogency may those who thus reason be called upon to
prove, that amongst tfle promisc'hous multitudes who travel in
stages, there may not be comprised those who roam the country
with the view of committing depredations, and from whose designs
the safety of the mails may be most endangered.
Upon a-full consideration of this case, I am brought to conclude,
3R2

750

SUPREME-COURT.
Lessee of Hickey 't

al.-v. -Stewart et al.

that the acts of the legislature of Ohio, subsequent in date-to the
2d of March 1831, and the proceedings of the Board of Public
Works of that state- founded upon those statutes, are in violation
of no principle or right guarantied by the Constitution of the United
States, nor of any acts of .Congress passed in pursuance thereof;
nor of any contract at-any time existing between the state of Ohio
and the federal government. I am farther of opinion, that the aforesaid laws of Ohio were on the contrary designed, and are of a
tendency, fairly and justly, to distribute the tolls collectable within
her limits, on the road in question, so as to make them properly
subservient to the views of the federal goverment and of the
government of Ohio, at- the times of passing of the state law of
February-4th,4831, and the act of Congress of the 2d of March,.
1831 ; and in conformity with the express language of those laws;
and to prevent unwarrantable monopoly, and serious if not fatal
detriment to the road. I think that the decision of the Supreme
.Court of Ohio, being a correct exposition of the law.5 designed to
effect-these important objects, ougbtAherefore to be affirmed.

LESSEE OF PHILIP HICsMjt

ET AL., PLAINTIFF IN
STEWART ET AL.

ERtOR,

If.

JAmES A.

A defendant in ejectment cannot protect himself by setting up the record in a
-prior chancery suit between the same parties by which the plaintiff in the
ejectment had been ordered to cbnvey all his title to the defendant in the
ejectment, but in consequence of the,party being beyond the jurisdiction of
the court, no such conveyance had been made.
And this is so, although the Cou'rt of Chancery, in following up its decree; had
legally issued a haberefaciaspoaessionem, and put the defendant in ejectment
in possession of the land.
By the treaty .of 1795, between the United States and Spain, Spain admitted
that she had no title to land north of the thirty-first degree of latitude, and
her previous grants of lanid, so situated, were of course void. The country,
thus belonging to Georgia, was ceded to the United States, in 1802, with a
reservation that all persons who were actual settler. on 27th October, 1795,
should have their grants confirmed.- Congreps provided a board of commissioners to examine these grants, and declaijed that their decision should
be final.
The Court of Chancery of the state of Mississippi had no authority to establish
one of these grants which had not been brought within the provisions of the
act, of Congress. The claim itself being utterly void, and no power having
been conferred by Congress on that court to take or exercise jurisdiction
over it, for the purpose of imparting-to it lgality, the exercise of jurisdiction
was a-mere usurpation of judicial power, and the whole *proceeding of the
court void.
The docirine of this court in I-Peters, 340, reviewed and confirmed, viz., "that
the jurisdiction of an court exercising authority over a subject may be
inquired into in every other court where the proceedings of the former are
relied on, and brought before the latter by the party claiming the benefit of
such proceeding." .

