CORNELI v. MOORE.
485.

Syllabus.

There is no doubt that a State can sue in the District
Court when the United States is a party and has consented to be sued there and has not expressed its consent
to be sued elsewhere. United States v. Louisiana, 123
U. S. 32. Ames v. Kansas, 111 U. S. 449. For the reasons
that we have indicated it is equitable that a decree should
not be entered except in such form as to bind the Interstate Commerce Commission and the United States and
therefore this bill must be dismissed. The right of the
State is sufficiently protected by its right to appeal from
the decision of the District Court. Cohens v. Virginia, 6
Wheat. 264, 395, et seq.
Bill dismissed.
CORNELI v. MOORE, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
GHIO v. MOORE, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

BRYAN v. MILES, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE FOR THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT.COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.

EASTES v. CRUTCHLEY, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE FOR THE SIXTH DISTRICT
OF MISSOURI, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

Nos. 174, 175, 428, 548. Argued December 15, 1921.-Decided
January 30, 1922.
1. Under the National Prohibition Act, the owner of whisky stored
in a bonded warehouse can not secure its release upon payment of

492

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Counsel for Parties.

257 U. S.

the tax, for transportation to his dwelling for consumption there as
a beverage by himself, his family and bona fide guests. Sections
3, 25,33,37, Title II, and § 6, Title III, considered. P. 495. Street
v. Lincoln Safe Deposit Co., 254 U. S. 88, distinguished.
2. Thus construed, the act does not deprive the owner of the liquor
of property without due process of law, or take it for public purposes without compensation. P. 498.
3. So held, where ownership was acquired, by purchase of warehouse
receipts, (a) before the ratification of the Eighteenth Amendment,
(b) after the ratification and before the effective date of the Prohibition Act, and (c) after that date. P. 498.
Affirmed.

Appeals from decrees of District Courts dismissing on
.motions as many bills filed by parties alleging themselves
to be owners of barrels of whisky in bonded warehouses
and praying mandatory injunctions to compel the collectors of internal revenue in charge to accept payment of
the government taxes, issue the stamps and allow removal.
In Nos. 428 and 548, the federal prohibition directors were
also joined, the bills praying that they be required to issue
the necessary permits for removal and transportation to
plaintiffs' homes. In No. 174, the plaintiff alleges that he
became the owner in the spring of 1917, and in No. 175
that ownership began on February 28, 1920, by purchase
of a warehouse receipt. In Nos. 428 and 548, the bills
show that ownership began by purchase of warehouse receipts, October 2, 1919, and August 24, 1917.
Mr. Elliott W. Major and Mr. Glendy B. Arnold for
appellants in Nos. 174, 175, and 548. Mr. John T. Barker
was also on the brief in No. 548.
Mr. Julian S. Jones and Mr. J. Wallace Bryan, with
whom Mr. James T. O'Neill, Mr. Glendy B. Arnold and
Mr. Elliott W. Major were on the briefs, for appellant in
No. 428.
Mr.. Solicitor General Beck and Mrs. Mabel Walker
Willebrandt, Assistant Attorney General, for appellees.

CORNELI v. MOORE.
491.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Wayne B. Wheeler, by leave of court, filed a brief
as amicus curiae.
MR. JusTicE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
These cases, though having different parties and coming from different courts, are dependent upon the same
considerations. They differ in some details but they all
involve the Eighteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States and its assistant legislation, the National Prohibition Act.
The Amendment after its ratification prohibited for
beverage purposes, among other things, the transportation of intoxicating liquor within the United States and
all territory subject to the jurisdiction thereof. And Congress and the States were given concurrent power to enforce the prohibition by appropriate legislation.
Congress in pursuance of that power passed the National Prohibition (Volstead) Act, 41 Stat. 305. Are the
cases at bar within the mandate and the prohibition, are
the special -questions involved in them.
First, as to the cases as displayed in the bills-there
are some differences in their averments but their essential
allegations identifying them in principle are as follows:
The appellees were, respectively, Collectors of Internal
Revenue for the First Internal Revenue District of the
State of Missouri, the District of Maryland, and the
Sixth Internal Revenue District of the State of Missouri.
It was the duty of each to collect and receive taxes on
distilled spirits in government bonded warehouses, and
upon payment of the taxes to issue revenue stamps showing the payment of the taxes. As such officers they had,
respectively, the custody and control of the spirits, and
the right of ingress to and egress from the warehouses.
Each appellant became the purchaser of a barrel of
whiskey, in one of the warehouses (it is designated),

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

which was identified and which he was desirous of removing to his dwelling for use and disposition of the spirits
according to law. The appellees refused to release or
deliver the spirits, or to accept the payment of the
taxes thereon which appellants either tendered or, on
account of opposing declarations of appellees, ommitted
to tender.
The refusal of appellees to release the spirits is asserted
to be wrongful and illegal and a violation of the Fifth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, in
that it deprives appellants of their property without due
process of law and takes it for public use without just
compensation.
The prayers of the bills were in effect (we disregard particulars) to require appellees to do what was necessary to
release the spirits from the warehouses and to enable
them to be transported to the respective dwellings of
appellants.
The bills were dismissed upon motions of appellees.
Against the rulings upon the motions, and against the
decrees dismissing the bills, appellants adduce certain
provisions of the National Prohibition Act and cite Street
v. Lincoln Safe Deposit Co., 254 U. S. 88.
So much of the cited portions as is relevant we insert
in the margin. We may observe, however, that while
their provisions extend to the manufacture, sale and
other disposition of intoxicating beverages, as well as to
their transportation, we only insert the provisions concerning the latter 1
1 " Sec. 3. No person shall on or after the date when the eighteenth
amendment to the Constitution of the United States goes into effect . . . transport . . . or possess any intoxicating liquor
except as authorized in this Act, and all the provisions of this Act shall
be liberally construed to the end that the use of intoxicating liquor
as a beverage may be prevented. . . . Provided, That nothing in
this Act shall prohibit the purchase and sale of warehouse receipts

CORNELI v. MOORE.
491.

Opinion of the Court.

Before considering the provisions here specially involved, we may say that the act has heen sustained, and
it has been decreed that the power of Congress can be asserted against the disposal for beverage purposes of all
liquor manufactured before the Amendment became effective, as it can be asserted against subsequent manufacture
for those purposes. Either case is within the constitutional mandate and prohibition.
A consideration of the act becomes necessary. Section
3 is comprehensive in its prohibition, and it takes pains
to provide that it shall have such liberality of construction
as to achieve its declared purpose.
covering distilled spirits on deposit in Government bonded warehouses, and no special tax liability shall attach to the business of
purchasing and selling such warehouse receipts."
"See. 25. It shall be unlawful to have or possess any liquor or property designed for the manufacture of liquor intended for use in violating this title or which has been so used, and no property rights shall
exist in any such liquor or property. . . . No search warrant shall
issue to search any private dwelling occupied as such. . . . The

term 'private dwelling' shall be construed to include the room or
rooms used and occupied not transiently but solely as a residence in
an apartment house, hotel, or boarding house...
"Sec. 33. After February 1, 1920, the popsession of liquors by any
person not legally permitted under this title to possess liquor shall be
prima facie evidence that such liquor is kept for the purpose of being . . . disposed of in violation of the provisions of this title.

Every person legally permitted under this title to have liquor shall
report to the commissioner within ten days after the date when the
eighteenth amendment of the Constitution of the United States goes
into effect, the kind and amount of intoxicating liquors in his possession. But it shall not be unlawful to possess liquors in one's private
dwelling while the same is occupied and used by him as his dwelling
only and such liquor need not be reported, provided such liquors are
for use only for the personal consumption of the owner thereof and
his family residing in such dwelling and of his bona fide guests when
entertained by him therein; and the burden of proof shall be upon
the possessor in any action concerning the same to prove that such
liquor was lawfully acquired, possessed, and used,"

496

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

It is, however, contended that there is modification of
this apparent universality of prohibition, and that, by a
permission of traffic in warehouse receipts, liquor in
storage in bonded warehouses is not subject to the ban of
the section.
Regarding the words of § 3 in connection with some of
the provisions of §§ 25 and 33, they give some plausibility
to the contention and some puzzle to construction, but
we are repelled nevertheless from those of appellants. To
accept them would defeat the purpose of the act and its
achievement of the mandate of the Constitution. That
mandate is, as will be seen by reference to § 1 of the
Amendment, that the "transportation of intoxicating
liquors within . . . the United States

. .

for bev-

erage purposes" shall be prohibited. And, as we have
said, the act declares (§ 3) that all of its provisions shall
be liberally construed "to the end" to quote its words,
"that the use of intoxicating liquor as a beverage may be
prevented." The method of appellants, we think, tended
to the opposite effect; tended to the use of liquor as a
beverage-not its prevention.
We are unable to see in § 33 which takes illegality
from the" liquors in one's private dwelling while the same
is occupied and used by him as his dwelling only" and the
rights that may attach to liquors in such situation an intention to extend such rights to liquors not so situated or,
to put it more pointedly, an intention to make all bonded
watehouses of the country outbuildings of its dwellings.
There is nothing favorable to appellants' contention in
§ 37.1 It permits transportation to bonded warehouses
1,,
Sec.

37. Nothing herein shall prevent the storage in United States
bonded warehouses of all liquor manufactured prior to the taking
effect of this Act, or prevent the transportation of such liquor to
such warehouses or to any wholesale druggist for sale to such druggist
for purposes not prohibited when the tax is paid, and permits may
be issued therefor .

CORNELI v. MOORE.
491.

Opinion of the Court.

but not from them as inferred by appellants. Transportation from them is confined to transportation to a wholesale druggist for sale to him for purposes not prohibited.
A permit is necessary even for this.
In connection with § 37; § 6, Title III of the act is
pertinent. It permits distilled spirits produced and fit for
beverage purposes remaining in bonded warehouses to be
withdrawn for denaturing "or for deposit in a bonded
warehouse established under this Act."
Counsel urge Street v. Lincoln Safe Deposit Co., supra,
against this conclusion, and as sustaining their contention.
In that case, by motion to dismiss, it was admitted that
Street was the lessee of a room in the Deposit Company's
warehouse, in which he had stored liquors, acquired prior
to the effective date of the National Prohibition Act,
which liquors were "in his exclusive possession and control, and are intended, and will be used only for personal
consumption by himself and the members of his family
or his bona fide guests." The storage room was obviously
the use of a convenience very commonly employed and
contributory to his dwelling, and therefore, for the reasons stated in that opinion, it was concluded that the
National Prohibition Act did not render unlawful the
storage of liquors there involved or their transportation,
under proper permit, to the dwelling of the owner for lawful uses. And this difference in the facts in the case from
those in the cases at bar removes it as a precedent. There
is no analogy in Street's relation to the room in the Deposit Company's warehouse and appellants' relation to
bonded warehouses. They had neither control, access to
nor possession of the spirits they purchased. Mere ownership was not the equivalent. Under § 33 there must be
ownership, and possession in one's private dwelling, and
that character cannot be assigned to the bonded warehouses of the Government.

498

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

Comment on other provisions of the act we do not think
is necessary. A reference to them demonstrates that they
have no militating force against our conclusion.
But appellants contend the effect we assign to the act
is to assign to it the effect of depriving them of their
property without due process of law or taking it for public purposes without just compensation. To understand
the conditions of the contention, a distinction in the cases
must be noted. The purchases by appellants were at different dates. The spirits purchased by Corneli were all
stored in bond in the Spring of 1917, a date prior to the
ratification of the Eighteenth Amendment. Bryan became the owner of his on the second of October, 1919, and,
therefore, prior to the effective date of the Volstead Act
which was January 16, 1920. Dillon v. Gloss, 256 U. S.
368. Ghio's purchase was about the twenty-eighth of
February, 1920, which was after the date of the Amendment and the effective date of the Volstead Act. Eastes
avers his ownership dates from August 24, 1917.
In considering the bearing of the dates of purchase and
their relation to the dates of the Amendment and the Volstead Act, the question of their construction blends in the
discussion somewhat confusingly with the question of
their constitutionality. It -isasserted that the Eighteenth
Amendment was not intended to be retrospective and that
if it and the Volstead Act should be so treated, that is, if
applied to liquor manufactured and lawfully acquired before their respective dates, they are void-they thereby
taking from property its essential attributes, " the right to
use it, possess it and enjoy it," contrary to the Fifth
Amendment to the Constitution,--and that the Fifth
Amendment is not repealed by the Eighteenth Amendment. We are not disposed to trace the elements of the
contentions minutely-they are answered in all their
phases by the National ProhibitionCases, 253 U. S. 350,
387.
Decrees affirmed.

CORNELI v. MOORE.
491.

499

McRFx-oms, J., dissenting.

MR.JuSTICE MCREYowaus, dissenting.

These cases differ somewhat and I speak with reference
to No. 174-Corneli v. Moore,--finally determined on motion to dismiss.
The opinion and ruling just announced seem to me in
direct conflict with Street v. Lincoln Safe Deposit Co.
(1920), 254 U. S. 88. I think the reasoning of that
opinion is bad; but it has been adopted, and the construction which it placed upon the act should be adhered to or
frankly overruled. The effort to distinguish the present
case from the earlier one is but toying with the immaterial.
Prior to the enactment of any National Prohibition
law and during the Spring of 1917, Corneli acquired the
barrel of distilled spirits numbered 125,694, then on deposit in United States General Bonded Warehouse No. 1,
St. Louis, Mo., where he resides. In strict conformity
with law he allowed the spirits to remain there until the
Autumn of 1920, when he offered to pay the taxes and
demanded permission to move them to his home for lawful use.
In Street v. Lincoln Safe Deposit Co., wines and liquors,
worth more than $3,000 "securely and properly packed
and stored in bottles, barrels, casks and cases," had long
been held in the large public warehouse, No. 60 East
Forty-second Street, New York City, owned and operated
by the Deposit Company, and it was alleged that "complainant does not intend to remove the same voluntarily
except as they may be required from time to time for
consumption". Notwithstanding the inhibitions of the
Volstead Act it was ruled that the owner might continue
to store them for an indefinite period and then remove
them to his dwelling for personal use. The opinion not
only declared the storage lawful but also said (p. 93):
"That transportation of the liquors to the home of ap-

500

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
McRlYwNOwS, J., dissenting.

257 U. S.

pellant, under the admitted circumstances, is not such as
is prohibited by the section is too apparent to justify
detailed consideration of the many provisions of the act
inconsistent with a construction which would render such
removal unlawful. .
Corneli entrusted his supply to a government warehouse as permitted by the statute and is denied the privilege of taking it home because that warehouse is not contributory to his dwelling, nor an adjunct thereto, nor an
outbuilding connected therewith. Street made no such
claim concerning the Forty-second Street Warehouse-indeed his counsel seem to have been wholly ignorant of
this extraordinary extension of his home-and the decree
in his favor was not rested on that gossamer. It went
upon the assumption that Congress never intended to
prohibit bona fide owners of lawfully acquired liquors
from storing and removing them for personal use at home,
although the Government stoutly maintained the contrary view. The following quotation from the opinion
sufficiently indicates the theory accepted by the court:
"It may be that the custody of liquors by a warehouse
company was thus not declared to be unlawful because
the writers of the act did not have such a case in mind,
but it was more probably because Congress would not consent to allow lawful possession and use of liquors in dwellings having storage facilities for them, while denying
the only possible means of preserving and protecting such
liquors to persons with less commodious homes. The
Congress was concerned with the great problem of preventing the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors
for beverage purposes in the future, and it seems to have
given but slight attention to the consumption of such
relatively small amounts of such liquors as might be in
existence in private ownership and intended for consumption by the owner, his family or his guests, when the
Amendment and the act should take effect. An intention

GILLESPIE v. OKLAHOMA.
491.

Statement of the Case.

to confiscate private property, even in intoxicating
liquors, will not be raised by inference and construction
from provisions of law which have ample field for other
operation in effecting a purpose clearly indicated and
declared."
If Corneli had only suspected the remarkable power of
the Forty-second Street Warehouse to attach itself to the
dwellings of all patrons, without regard to distance, he
might have chosen a safer course. He stored where the
statute said he might. Now he is told that no analogy
exists between his lonely barrel there and the many "bottles, barrels, casks and cases" which, within more favored
walls, await the pleasure of their owner.
GILLESPIE v. STATE OF OKLAHOMA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME coURT OF THE STATE OF

OKLAHOMA.

No. 322. Argued January 3, 1922.-Decided January 30, 1922.
1. The net income derived by a lessee from sales of his share of'oil
and gas received under leases of restricted Creek and Osage lands,
which constitute him in effect an instrumentality used by the
United States in fulfilling its duties to the Indians, can not be

taxed by a State. P. 504. Choctaw, Oklahoma & Gul R. R.
Co. v. Harrison,235 U. S,292; Indian Territory Illuminatfit Oil
Co. v. Oklahoma, 20 U. S. 522.
2. Distinction made between this case and taxing net income derived
from interstate commerce. P. 504.
81 Okla. 103, reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma upholding income taxes assessed against the appellant. The judgment was in a proceeding initiated by
his appeal to a court of first instance from the action of
the State Auditor.

Mr. James P. Gilmore for plaintiff in error.

