NICHOLAS v. UNITED STATES.
66.

71

Statement of the Case.

draw the plaintiff's customers away. The standard for
these rates, however, according to the Supreme Court, is
fixed by the legislature. If the rates had been fixed by
law at the present amounts it would be vain to deny their
validity. The trouble with the plaintiff's argument is
that it attempts to go behind the interpretation that the
Supreme Court has given to the acts concerned and to
overwork the delicate distinction between the private and
public capacities of municipal corporations. It is unnecessary to refer to the numerous cases upon classification by state laws in order to show that the distinction in
question here is very far from being so arbitrary that we
can pronounce it bad.
Decree affirmed.

NICHOLAS v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 10. Argued October 5, 1921.-Decided November 7, 1921.

1. A person who has been removed from a place in the classified civil
service, by the proper authority, but without charges or opportunity to answer, in violation of § 6 of the Act of August 24, 1912,

c. 389, 37 Stat. 555, can not recover subsequent salary attached to
the position if he has not been diligent in asserting his rights.
P. 75.

United States v. Wickersham, 201 U. S. 390, distinguished.

2. After summary removal, without charges, from the office of
Inspector of Customs, claimant did nothing for his vNndication for

three years, when he sued for the salary since accrued. Held, that
he had abandoned his title and could not recover. P. 76.
53 Ct. Chms. 463; 55 id. 188, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims in a

suit to recover the emoluments of an office accruing after
appellant's unlawful removal from it. See also post,
77, 82.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court. •

257 U. S.

The private corporation, whatever its public duties, is
organized for private ends and may be presumed to intend
to make whatever profit the business will allow. The
municipal corporation is allowed to go into the business
only on the theory that thereby the public welfare will be
subserved. So far as gain is an object it is a gain to a
public body and must be used for public ends. Those who
manage the work cannot lawfully make private profit
their aim, as the plaintiff's directors not only may but
must. The Supreme Court seems to interpret the Municipal Ownership Act as limiting the charges allowed to
what will be sufficient to meet outlays and expenses of
every kind, thus emphasizing the purely public nature of
the interests concerned and excluding the latitude for
wrong that the plaintiff fears. The Court further says
that the municipalities can exercise their power to make
all needful rules and regulations only by ordinances and
resolutions as in other public action. It calls attention
to the fact that the accounts are regulated by law and
open to the public eye, and that the consumers in this as
in the other case may have a resort to the courts.
The plaintiff did not venture to contend that the submission of similar duties of different bodies to different
tribunals was of itself unconstitutional, or that the fixing
of rates might not be entrusted to city councils. But the
fact that the municipality owned the plant for which its
council fixed the rate was supposed to disqualify its
officers, at least when other plants were submitted to the
judgment of strangers. But a city council has no such
interest in the city's electric plant as to make it incompetent to fix the rates. Whatever the value of the distinction between the private and public functions of the
municipality, the duty of its governing board in this
respect as we have said is public and narrowly fixed by
the act. The conduct of which the plaintiff complains
is not extortion but, on the contrary, charging rates that

SPRINGFIELD GAS CO. v. SPRINGFIELD.
66.

69

Opinion of the Court.

Supreme Court where the decree was affirmed on rehearing, after a previous decision the other way. The Public
Utilities Act and the Municipal Ownership Act [Laws
1913, p. 455] were enacted by the State of Illinois within
a few days of each other and, according to the Supreme
Court of the State, as parts of a single plan. The former
excepts municipal corporations from its requirements
and the latter allows cities to go into this business among
others and to fix the rates, which in the plaintiff's case are
subject to the approval of the State Public Utilities Commission. The plaintiff contends that the exception of
municipal corporations from the Public Utilities Act is
void under the Fourteenth Amendment and that the act
should be enforced as if the exception were not there.
It might perhaps be a sufficient answer to the plaintiff's
case that the Supreme Court has intimated after careful
consideration that the Utilities Act must stand or fall as a
whole, so that if the plaintiff's attack upon the exception
were sustained the whole statute would be inoperative
and the only ground of the suit would fail. The plaintiff
attempts to reargue the question, but upon this point the
decision of the State Court would be final and would
control. However, as the Supreme Court did not stop at
that point, but, assuming that under the law of Illinois
the plaintiff had a standing to demand the relief sought if
its case was otherwise good, went on to decide the validity
of the exception, we think it proper to follow the same
course and to deal with the constitutional question raised.
The plaintiff's argument shortly stated is that in selling
electricity the city stands like any other party engaged in
a commercial enterprise and that to leave it free in the
matter of charges while the plaintiff is subject to the
Public Utilities Board is to deny to the plaintiff the equal
protection of the laws. But we agree with the Supreme
Court of the State that the difference between the two
types of corporation warrants the different treatment that
they have received.

68

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

plants, viz, that because municipal records are open to
inspection it is not necessary to require their utility rates
to be published and approved by the State Commission,
is untenable.
The other reason assigned, viz, that they may not
profit to the same extent as plants operated by other
private corporations, is also not tenable.
Under the Illinois court's interpretation of the act,
that the city must fix rates sufficient to produce the
revenue specified (§ 12), no higher, no lower, the city can
not be required to fix reasonable rates.
Any legislative attempt to deny the city profits to the
same extent as that granted other corporations in the
operation of a utility, would be unconstitutional.
That one owner may not profit to the same extent as
another does not constitute the kind of difference that
justifies its exemption from regulation.
The elimination of the provisions exempting municipally owned utilities does not extend the scope of the
Utilities Act beyond the intention of the legislature, as by
§ 83 it expressly manifested its intention to exempt
municipalities only in the event it could do so without
violating the Constitution.
Mr. Bayard Lacey Catron, with whom Mr. Albert D.
Stevens was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMRs delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity brought by the plaintiff in error,
a private gas and electric company, to restrain the defendant City from producing and selling electricity to
private consumers without first filing schedules of rates
and printing and posting the same as required by §§ 33,
34 of the Public Utilities Act of June 30, 1913. [Laws
1913, p. 459.] The bill was dismissed on demurrer by
the Court of first.instance. An appeal was taken to the

SPRINGFIELD GAS CO. v. SPRINGFIELD.
66.

67

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

affirmed by the state Supreme Court, whose decision is
brought here by the present writ of error.
Mr. Philip Barton Warren and Mr. Joseph S. Clark,
with whom Mr. William L. Patton was on the brief, for
plaintiff in error.
A municipal corporation which supplies its inhabitants
with electricity, gas or water, does so in its capacity of a
private corporation, and not in the exercise of its powers
of local sovereignty. Walla Walla v. Walla Walla Water
Co., 172 U. S. 1; Los Angeles v. Los Angeles Gas Corporation, 251 U. S. 32; Safety Wire Co. v. Baltimore, 66
Fed. 140; Walker v. Rock Island, 146 Ill. 139; Springfield
v. Springfield Gas Co., 292 Ill. 236.
In exercising its private functions a municipality is,
from every viewpoint and for every purpose, a private
corporation.
The patron of a public utility service furnished by a
municipality has the same rights to reasonableness of
rates and equality of facilities as the patron of service
furnished by any other private corporation.
A municipality furnishing public utility service owes
the same duties and obligations to its patrons that any
other private corporation does.
The attempted exemption of municipally operated
commercial plants by § 10 of the Utilities Act is void, as
being in violation of both the state and federal constitutional provisions against class legislation, because it is a
special immunity granted the commercially operated
municipal plant and relieves it from the same regulations
imposed on the like plant of all other private corporations.
The regulation provided for in the Municipal Ownership Act is not of the same kind provided for in the
Utilities Act.
The reason assigned by the Illinois court, as a substan.
tial distinction, justifying the exemption of municipal

66

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

257 U. S.

scribe the District as "including the river Potomac in
its course through the District," which imports an assertion by Congress that the title of the United States embraces the whole river bed; and the jurisdiction of the
District over the river seems to have been exercised without dispute. For cases that have reached the reports see
Alexandria Canal Railroad & Bridge Co. v. "Districtof
Columbia, 1 Mackey, 217, 225, 226. Smoot v. District of
Columbia, 23 App. D. C. 266. Evans v. United States,
31 App. D. C. 544.
It may happen that such filling as is done in this case
will interrupt previously existing access to the water front.
But that does not affect the right of the United States to
possession of the land. What other rights, if any, the
plaintiff in error may have does not concerAt us now.
Judgment affirmed.
SPRINGFIELD GAS & ELECTRIC COMPANY v.
CITY OF SPRINGFIELD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IllINOIS.

No. 46. Argued October 19, 1921.--Decided November 7, 1921.
State legislation permitting a city owning an electric plant to sell
electricity to private consumers and fix the rates by ordinance or
resolution of the city council while subjecting a competing private
corporation to regulation of its rates by a public commission, held
not to deny the corporation the equal protection of the laws.
Illinois Public Utilities Act, June 30, 1913, §§ 33, 34. P. 69.
292 Il. 236, affirmed.
THE plaintiff in error brought this suit in a circuit court
of Illinois to enjoin the City of Springfield from operating
its plant for the production and sale of'electricity to private consumers without having first filed rates, etc., as required by the Public Utilities Act of the State (Laws 1913,
p. 459). A decree dismissing the bill was ultimately

MARINE RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
47.

Opinion of the Court.

way include the indentation or cove where the United
States has filled. But we know of no reason for construing the charter to Lord Baltimore as so limited or
that to Howsing as importing such a rule.
The only important aspect of the last mentioned suggestion is in connection with a claim of prescriptive right.
The land behind the filling of the United States is made
land, and the fillings on the Alexandria side go below the
original low water mark. In this case, however, there is
no attempt to disturb the long maintained possession of
such extensions whether originally warranted or not.
The only question before us is of the rights of the United
States to fill land that hitherto has been under water.
The plaintiff in error seeks to exclude it by force of what
already has been done and the claims of right that have
been made in connection with it. If the taking possession
of land were under a deed purporting to convey more
than the portion actually occupied, no doubt, within
reasonable limits, the sovereign power might give to it
the effect of adverse possession of the whole, as against
other subjects of the same power. Montoya v. Gonzales,
232 U. S. 375, 377, 378. But the effect of filling in upon
the edge of a stream as against a different power is another matter. Such acts in themselves import no claim
beyond the land thus occupied. Maryland and the United
States are not called upon to scrutinize the discourse of
those in Virginia even if in statutory form. Except so far
as actually occupied the seizin of the land remains in the
party that has the title. "One who enters upon the land
of another, though under color of title, gives no notice to
that other of any claim, except to the extent of his actual
occupancy." Hunnicutt v. Peyton, 102 U. S. 333, 369.
Still more is this true as against independent sovereign
rights.
Finally, on the other hand, the Revised Statutes relating to the District of Columbia, June 22, 1874, § 1, de-

64

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

about the boundary in terms. Without going into the
history of the compact or reciting it, we only need to
remark that it was a regulation of commerce, and while
with a view to opening up a route to the West it provided
in Article 6 that the Potomac should be considered as a
common highway for the purposes of navigation and commerce to the citizens of Virginia and Maryland, -and in
Article 7 gave the citizens of each State full property in
the shores of the river adjoining their lands and the
privilege of carrying out wharves, &c., with a common
right of fishing, it left the question of boundary open to
long continued disputes. It may be laid on one side
even if it ever was in force in the District of Columbia,
which has been denied on the ground that the compact
was abrogated so far as it affected this land by the grant
of Virginia and was not revived by the grant of the
United States. Evans v. United States, 31 App. D. C.
544, 550. See Georgetown v. Alexandria Canal Co., 12
Pet. 91.
The question 'of boundary remaining open was submitted to arbitration which ended in an award accepted
by the parties in 1878. But that was an arbitration between the two States and did not purport to affect the
boundary of the District. The assent of the United States
did not enlarge its scope. Act of March 3, 1879, c. 196, 20
Stat. 481. It is said that as the submission was to an
ascertainment of the true boundary line the award must
be taken to have determined it, but the question was confined to the boundary between the States as they then
were, and whatever may be the force of the argument that
the same principle ought to govern here, it was not and
could not be adjudicated. Further discussion on this
point is not needed. The award fixed low water mark on
the Virginia side as the boundary, and is only material
if at all as suggesting a claim that the low water line
should'be drawn from headland to headland and in that

MARINE RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
47.

Opinion of the Court.

tate to apply the decision in American Security & Trust
Co.v. District of Columbia, 224 U. S.491, to such a case.
The question of the jurisdiction of the trial Court and
that of the merits very nearly coalesce, as the original
title, at least, of Maryland and its jurisdiction were
founded upon the same facts, and as the United States
succeeded to the rights of Maryland by the grant of the
District completed in 1791. That the original title of
Maryland extended at least to low water mark on the
Virginia side it now is too late to deny, in view of the
decisions in Maryland v. West Virginia, 217 U. S. 1, 45,
46; s.c. ibid. 577, 578; and Morris v. United States, 174
U. S. 196. An attempt to throw doubt upon these authorities and upon the effect of the charter of Charles I,
June 20, 1632, granting Maryland to Lord Baltimore
(ad ulteriorem dicti Fluminis Ripam et earn sequendo
&c., 217 U. S. 25) "to the farther bank of the said
[Potomac] river and following it," by the charters of
James I to Virginia and especially by the terms of a
grant from the Governor of Virginia to Howsing in 1669
must fail. The latter grant is subordinate to the former
and is not inconsistent with it as the language is "extending down Potomack River by various courses 3152.po.
making a S. Wtly line to a pokecory" &c. The implication of the words "by various courses" that the grant
follows the line of the stream is not changed by the words
"including several small cfeeks or inlets." The land in
question is situated upon an indentation, called Battery
Cove, but the place is not a creek or inlet. The former
decisions of the Court must be followed so far as they go.
The original state of things was not changed by the
grant of Virginia and the regrant by the United States of
the part of the District on the Virginia side. They at
least did not enlarge the rights of that State. The compact between Virginia and Maryland in 1785 also seems
to us to have no bearing upon the uase. It says nothing

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court..

257 U. S.

action was brought. The defendant pleaded to the jurisdiction of the Court alleging that the land was not in the
District but was part of Virginia. On this issue the Court
found or ruled in favor of the plaintiff and afterwards did
the same upon the general issue, a jury having been
waived. Judgment for the plaintiff was affirmed by the
Court of Appeals and the defendant took a writ of error
to bring the case to this Court.
A question is raised by the defendant in error as to the
jurisdiction of this Court. The language of the Judicial
Code, Act of March 3, 1911, c. 231, § 250, 36 Stat. 1087,
1159, is that any final judgment of the Court of Appeals
may be reexamined "First. In cases in which the jurisdiction of the trial court is in issue." The words taken
literally cover this case, but it is argued that they should
be construed as similar words in § 238 concerning the District Courts are construed. In the latter instance, as is
well known, they are confined to the jurisdiction of the
District Courts as courts of the United States. But the
jurisdiction of the District Courts is a limited jurisdiction
based upon statutory grounds, and therefore the words
of § 238 naturally enough were confined to what always
is the first question in a case before them. The Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia on the other hand is a
court of general jurisdiction, and whether or not the
clause of §250 was suggested by the earlier one, we see no
sufficient justification for denying to it the scope that it
must have if it is given its natural sense. The plea to
the jurisdiction raises the question clearly, and a certificate would add nothing to what the record shows.
We are not prepared to say that the judgment before
us was not "otherwise reviewable" on the question of
the boundary between the United States and Virginia, so
far as the defendant drew in question the construction of
the Revised Statutes relating to the District of Columbia,
§ 1, June 22, 1874, hereafter discussed. We should hesi-

MARINE RY. CO v. UNITED STATES.
47.

Opinion of the Court.

to confine the channel by a seawall and to deposit the
material dredged out of the channel behind such wall.
Sage v. Mayor, 154 N. Y. 61, 76; Home v. Commonwealth, 202 Mass. 422,429; Scrantonv. Wheeler, 179-U. S.
141, 169.
But conceding that defendant's riparian rights were
infringed by the reclamation, that fact would not invest defendant with title to the reclaimed area. An
owner of land having a statutory right to wharf out acquires no title to reclamation on submerged soil in front
of him, even when made by a stranger. Austin v. Rutland R. R. Co., 45 Vt. 215, 242; Coburn v. Ames, 52 Cal.
385, 398. Much less, when made by the sovereign itself.
No economic reason exists for giving the reclaimed soil to
the upland owner even if wrongfully deprived of access,
since reclaimed soil is not a proper measure of compensation. The shore land having the least valuable riparian
rights would, in that event, acquire the major portion of
the reclamation.
MR. JusTicE HoLMEs delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit brought by the United States in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia to recover possession of a strip of land on the Potomac River front of
the City of Alexandria. Except an insignificant portion
as fo which no special defence was made and which it is
agreed may be disregarded, this strip lay below low water
mark until it was filled in by the United States in 19101912 by dredging from the bottom of the river and depositing the material on the other side of a riprap wall
built on the river bed. Act of June 25, 1910, c. 382, 36
Stat. 630, 639. Act of February 27, 1911, c. 166, 36 Stat.
933, 937. The United States enclosed the made land by
a fence at high water mark, but the defendant, the plaintiff in error, claiming title to the adjoining land inshore,
destroyed the fence and took possession, whereupon this

OCTOBER TERM. 1921.
Argument for the United States.

257 U. S.

Virginia has not shown such long continued possession
of, or exercise of dominion over, the disputed area as
would be equivalent to the relocation of a common boundary line by acquiescence. Calls of private conveyances
for lines running "into the river," etc., do not constitute
adverse occupation of the bed of a public river. The
United States had all the possession of which such soil
was susceptible. Such actual jurisdiction as has been exercised has been in accordance with the Government's
claim: By police of the waters and protection of the
fisheries. Act April 6, 1880, 21 Stat. 71; Act March 2,
1885, 23 Stat. 340. By taxation of physical objects
affixed to the soil of the bed. Acts of February 5, 1808, 2
Stat. 457; July 14, 1832, 4 Stat. 502; June 30, 1834, 4
Stat. 727; July 27, 1868, 15 Stat. 231; June 21, 1886, 24
Stat. 84; July 18, 1888, 25 Stat. 314. By the execution of
process and the enforcement of the District excise laws on
boats even while in the slips at Alexandria.
The title of the United States, like the Crown title in
tidal rivers in England, is an absolute right of property in
the soil. Rex v. Parmenter, 10 Price, 378, 409. Hence,
the Government being the owner of the fee of the soil
while submerged, remains the owner of the fee of the soil
reclaimed. Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1, 11; Barney V.
Keokuk, 94 U. S. 324; Haight v. Keokuk, 4 Ia. 199; Tomlin v. Dubuque R. R. Co., 32 Ia. 106 ;Hoboken v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 124 U. S. 656; Stevens v. Paterson& N.
R. R. Co., 34 N. J. L. 532.
No riparian rights annexed to the Virginia upland could
preclude the United States from intercepting such upland
by a seawall. Gibson. v. United States, 166 U. S. 269;
Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S. 141. Riparian rights,
being subject to the obligation to suffer the consequences
of all lawful operations in the stream (Jackson v. United
States, 230 U. S. 1, 21; Darling v. Newport News, 249
U. S. 540, 543) are enjoyed in subordination to the power

MARINE RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
47.

Argument for the United States.

headland to headland only when they mark the entrance
to a landlocked estuary or bay. 1 Moore, Int. Law Dig.,
pp. 703, 704, 741; 1 Ops. Atty. Gen. 32; Stetson v. United
States, 32 Alb. Law Journ. 484; 4 Moore, Int. Arb.
4332-41. The present points claimed as headlands cannot be taken because they have been artificially created.
The old, obliterated points some distance inland cannot be
taken because, if ever headlands, they are such no longer.
A headland call requires a definite, permanent, visible
object. The claim for a headland line is an attempt to
apply the Maryland-Virginia arbitration line of 1877,
reached upon the erroneous assumption that boundary is
determined by the extent of the wharfing privileges.
Domestic statutes of Virginia authorizing extensions of
Alexandria into the river do not make a new interstate
boundary. Acquiescence cannot be inferred from Maryland's failure, during the Revolutionary period, to prevent such fillings. The land so made may be treated as
an accomplished fact. Indiana v. Kentucky, 136 U. S.
479, 510. But failure to prevent by force particular encroachments cannot be treated, in the face of Maryland's
denial, as an acknowledgment of a general right to make
them. It is the fact of occupancy, not the claim, which
works the change. Arkansas v. Tennessee, 246 U. S. 158,
172. Between 1791 and 1847 the United States was sovereign of both shores, and changes in the water front then
made cannot affect the question because there was then
no boundary to affect. Virginia statutes passed after the
retrocession are merely paper claims of jurisdiction not
acquiesced in by the United States. Congress, on the
contrary, has expressly defined the District, and governed
it, as the territory ceded by Maryland, "including the
river Potomac in its course through the District, and the
islands therein." Rev. Stats. D. C. § 1. In such a conflict the legal title must prevail. United States v. Texas,
162 U. S. 1, 88.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for the United States.

257 U. S.

easements and privileges were not revived. Evans v.
United States, 31 App. D. C. 544, 552; Capron v. Greenway, 74 Md. 289, 293; Denton v. Leddell, 23 N. J. Eq. 64,
66; Rogers v. Powers, 204 Mass. 262, 264; Greenwood v.
MetropolitanElevatedR. R. Co., 12 N. Y. S. 919; Pardessus, Trait des Servitudes, §§ 16, 296, 299.
The arbitration award of 1877, being limited to the
boundary between Virginia and Maryland, was without
effect on the Virginia-District of Columbia boundary.
Nor did the Act of March 2, 1879, 20 Stat. 481, giving
the consent of Congress to the award, make it applicable
to the Virginia-District of Columbia boundary, notwithstanding the proviso, inserted out of abundant caution,
that nothing therein contained should impair or affect
any right or jurisdiction of the United States over the
islands and waters forming the subject of sucha award.
In re Devoe Manufacturing Co., 108 U. S. 401, 415.
Maryland v. West Virginia, 217 U. S. 1, 577, is not an
authority on the Potomac boundary. The real question
there was the western, not the river boundary. The
court's attention was not directed to the question of high
or low water mark. The suggestion in the supplementary
opinion (217 U. S. 580) that the privileges on the shores
were inconsistent 'with the charter boundary was
grounded on a tacit concession, for Maryland after the
award of 1877 had never pressed a claim to high water
mark The expression of opinion is not binding. The
Genessee Chief, 12 How. 443, 455.
The h adland to headland theory has no possible application to an interstate river boundary. It is not recognized by the United States as ageneral principle even in
maritime boundaries. 1 Moore, International Law Dig.,
719. The line cannot be drawn across the ordinary indentations and sinuosities of the shore. Direct United
States Cable Co. v. Anglo-American Tel. Co., L. R., 2
A. C. 394, 418. Maritime boundaries are drawn from

MARINE RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
47.

Argument for the United States.

panying Documents of Virginia Commissioners appointed
to ascertain the Boundary Line between Maryland and
Virginia. Rich. 1873, p. 3, Append. B, p. 86.
No reason exists for giving the compact the effect suggested. Shore lines are physical, not imaginary lines. A
boundary from headland to headland is highly inconvenient in practice and inconsistent with dominion of the
river, as such, which unquestionably belonged to Maryland. Hall, Int. Law, 7th ed., p. 125; 1 Moore, Int.
Law Digest, p. 617; Grotius, De Jur. Bell. et Pac.,
Lib. II, c. 3.
Construing the compact as a treaty between two sovereign States (Howardv. Ingersoll,13 How. 381, 412), the
privileges in the waters and adjacent shores are no more
than a recognition of servitudes in the stream generally
allowed ih favor of the subjects of the opposite sovereign.
The Apollon, 9 Wheat. 362, 369; Wheaton, Int. Law, §§
193, 194; Kaeckenbeck, International Rivers, 15, 34, 74,
134, 184. The' cession of a right of user, for whatsoever
purpose, cannot be deemed a surrender either of the basic
right of property or of territorial sovereignty. Rivier,
Droit des Gens, t. I., p. 296; Vattel, bk. I, c. 22, § 273.
The compact, being made between Virginia and Maryland in their character as States, was subject to alteration
by their joint will. Georgetown v. Alexandria Canal Co.,
12 Pet. 91, 96; Opphenheim, Int. Law, vol. I, §§ 204,
520. It was, therefore, abrogated by the vesting of
this absolute power in a single sovereign, when the
two States ceded to the United States the original
District, including the whole of the river, its bed, and the
shores on both sides. Evans v. United States, 31 App.
D. C. 550. The principle of consolidatio is recognized as
applicable to international servitudes. Calvo, Droit Int.
I, p. 33; Heffter, Droit Int. (traduc-francaise), § 43, p.
93. The retrocession to Virginia (Act of July 9, 1846, c.
35, 9 Stat. 35) making no mention of them, the merged

56

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for the United States.

257 U. S.

of the grantees. Constructive adverse possession under
color of title-itself a mere legal fiction, Carey v. Cagney,
109 La. 77, 82-has no application to lands not susceptible of possession in the ordinary sense. Chandler v.
Spear, 22 Vt. 388, 404; Paine v. Hutchins, 49 Vt. 314,
318; Bailey v. Carleton. 12 N. H. 9; Thompson v. Barhans, 61 N. Y. 52, 68. Nor to land which the grantor is
incapable to convey. Proctorv. Railroad,100 Me. 27, 29;
Roberts v. Baumgarten, 110 N. Y. 80, 83. Hence not to
land covered by water, which is not only publici juris but
lies over the frontier in the territory of an independent
sovereignty. Hoye v. Swann, 5 Md. 237, 249; Casey v.
Inloes, 1 Gill. 497, 500. In the absence of occupancy, the
seizin remains in him who has the title. Hunnicutt v.
Peyton, 102 U. S. 333, 368. The Maryland proprietary
was not bbund to notice domestic conveyances in Virginia.
Nor would possession of upland under such conveyances
indicate that the patentees claimed soil under the river,
patentable neither in Virginia nor in Maryland.
The Maryland-Virginia Compact of 1785 was without
effect on the Potomac boundary.
The purpose was not to change the charter line but to
make provision for the concurrent use and police of the
waters. Proc. Md. Cony. 1774-1776, pp. 291, 293. Attorney General v. Del. & B. B. R. R. Co., 27 N. J. Eq. 1, 121;
Nicoulin v. O'Brien, 248 U. S. 113, 114; Wedding v. Meylet, 192 U. S. 573, 584.
The shore and wharf rights allowed the Virginia upland
owners, being consistent with continued ownership in
Maryland, did not involve alteration in the line.
The compact was not regarded by the parties as having
determined the boundary. This is established: (a) By the
repeated efforts subsequently made to secure a settlement.
Laws Md. 1831, Res. No. 128; 1833, Res. No. 80; 1834,
Res. No. 99. (b) By Virginia's claiming, as late as 1872,
the whole river to the north bank. Report and Accom-

MARINE RY. CO. v. LNITED STATES.
47.

Argument for the United States.

States, 174 U. S. 196, 225; Alexandria Canal Co. v. District of Columbia, 1 Mackey, 257. It is true that the
Marshall claim rejected in the Morris Case was based
upon the Culpeper grant of 1688, whereas the claim here
is based on the Howsing grant of 1669. But the Culpeper
grant was a confirmation of the original grant to Hopton
of September 18, 1649, confirmed to his successors on
May 8, 1669 (4 Hen. Stat. Va., c. XVIII, pp. 514, 519).
In holding that the Maryland title was "not affected by
the subsequent grant to Culpeper" the court held in
effect that it was superior to the original Hopton grant
which was itself senior to Howsing.
The Howsing grant embraced no part of the Potomac
River: (a) Because it was an ordinary conveyance, under
a general system for the disposition of unappropriated
lands, which even by Virginia law carried no soil under
public tidal waters. Home v. Richards, 4 Call (Va.) 441,
446, 447; Mann v. Tacoma Land Co., 153 U. S. 273, 284.
(b) Because, the Governor of Virginia being without
power to enlarge the political boundaries of the colony,
the grant must be construed as confined to land in Virginia (c) Because the description, beginning on land and
"extending down the Potomack River various courses
3152 poles," does not call for straight lines in the river.
Brown v. Huger, 21 How. 305, 320; Hardinv. Jordan,140
U. S. 371, 380; Smith v. Aldridge, 2 Hayw. 382; Rogers v.
Mabe, 15 N. Car. 180, 184. The river being public, the
grant stops at the water's edge, notwithstanding the
words "including several small creekes or inlets for the
said quantity." The last expression means only that the
quantity had been measured approximately without allowance for small water areas within the tract.
While some so-called islands now forming part of the
Virginia mainland were taken possession of under the
Howsing grant, no part of the locus, which remained submerged until the improvement, was ever in the possession

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for the United States.

257 U. S.

The United States did not acquire title to or jurisdiction over the filled area because of the fact that in the
improvement of the river and harbor it made and reclaimed the land. Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Illinois,
146 U. S. 387.
By the act of Congress approving and consenting to
the agreement and award, the United States became a
party thereto as fully and as effectually as if it had been
a party at the very inception of the agreement to submit
to arbitration. Wharton v. Wise, 153 U. S. 155, 172, 173;
Virginia v. Tennessee, 148 U. S. 503, 521. The reservation in the act consenting to the arbitration and award, of
jurisdiction over the waters and islands, referred only to
the powers of Congress over the waters and islands under
the commerce clause qf the Constitution. The reservation does not relate to territorial or property rights, but
to jurisdiction only.
Mr. Henry H. Glassie, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Frierson and
Mr. Leslie C. Garnett, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, were on the brief, for the United States.
The United States, as successor to the lord proprietary
of Maryland and as complete territorial sovereign of the
District of Columbia,*has not only the dominion but the
absolute property of the soil of the Potomac River. Any
land, therefore, raised upon the submerged bed in the
course of a lawful public improvement, is owned in absolute property by the United States. Hale, De Jure Mars,
c. 6; Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1, 48; Austin v. Rutland R. R. Co., 45 Vt. 215, 244; Hoboken v. Pennsylvania
R. R. Co., 124 U. S. 656, 690.
It is settled that the Maryland Charter of 1632 embraced the Potomac River and the soil under it to highwater mark on the Virginia bank. Morris v. United

MARINE RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
47.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

favor of the validity of that grant. Fletcherv. Fuller, 120
U. S. 534; Cariflo v. Insular Government, 212 U. S. 449;
Costa8 v. Insular Government, 221 U. S. 623; Matthews
v. Burton, 17 Gratt. 312; 32 Cyc. 1202. An original grant
carries with it constructive or legal possession of the whole
area covered by the grant. Dawson v. Watkins, 2 Rob.
(Va.) 259, 268; Green v. Liter, 8 Cr. 229; Green v. Watkin8, 7 Wheat. 27; Howdashallv. Crenning, 103 Va. 30.
There is no evidence showing that either Maryland or
the United States ever made any claim to Alexander's
Island or Pearson's Island, or any of the bays, creeks or
inlets, included in the Howsing grant.
The Compact of 1785 was a complete and binding
agreement between Maryland and Virginia, and their respective territorial rights thereunder had become fixed
before the formation of the Federal Government and the
adoption of the Federal Constitution. Wharton v. Wise,
153 U. S. 155, 166; Virginia v. Tennessee, 148 U. S. 503,
521.
The compact confirmed the territorial ownership and
jurisdiction of Virginia. The acts of cession of these
States did not modify the compact in so far as it fixed
the territorial boundaries and jurisdiction of Virginia.
Georgetown v. Alexandria Canal Co., 12 Pet. 91.
The riparian right of making wharves and other river
improvements is property, subject only to the power of
Congress under the commerce clause, and can then be interfered with only when necessary to promote navigation.
Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Illinois, 146 U. S. 387; Yates
v. Milwaukee, 10 Wall. 497, 504.
The right of a riparian owner is not a mere license, or
privilege, but is property in the soil up to the line of navigation, though covered by water. Norfolk v. Cook, 27
Gratt. 430, 434, 435; Railroad Co. v. Schurmeir, 7 Wall.
272, 290; Dutton v. Strong, 1 Black, 1, 29; Grover v.
Foster, 96 Va. 650; Peck v. Hampton, 115 Va. 855.

52

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

257 U. S.

of a part shall be construed as possession of the whole."
Garrettv. Ramsey, 26 W. Va. 345, 351; Lowndes v. Huntington, 153 U. S. 1, 32.
Sovereignties may lose territory by prescription as individuals may lose their title by adverse possession. Rhode
Island v. Massachusetts,4 How. 591, 639; Vattel, Law of
Nations, bk. 2, c. 11, § 149. The constant and approved
practice of nations shows that, by whatever name it be
called, the uninterrupted possession of territory for a certain length of time by one State excludes the claim of
every other. Wheaton, Int. Law, pt. 2, c. 14, § 164; Indianav. Kentucky, 136 U. S.479; Virginiav. Tennessee,
148 U. S. 503, 523, 524; Maryland v. West Virginia, 217
U. S.1, 577, 585; Phillipsv. Payne, 92 U. S.130.
The Act of Congress of June 25, 1910, read with related
legislative documents, clearly recognizes the territorial
rights and jurisdiction of Virginia over the whole line of
the authorized improvement along the Alexandria river
front from Jones' Point to the northern corporate limits
of said city.
If the contention that the original line of the Calvert
grant of 1632 is the present boundary between the District
and Alexandria were upheld, it would cut off Alexandria
entirely from the river and place in the District all the
land made in the coves prior to 1785, covering a large
number of city blocks, and would disturb the title of their
owners.
Whilst Alexandria was a part of the District of Columbia, Congress preserved the integrity of the territorial and
jurisdictional limits of Alexandria, and since the recession
neither the United States nor the District has made any
claim to the territory within these lines or exercised any
act of jurisdiction over the same during the 67 years previous to the time Battery Cove was filled.
After the lapse.of time between the date of the Howsing grant and the present, the presumption of law is in

MARINE RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
47.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

comes into a court of law and sues to recover the fee of a
parcel of land claimed by it to be within the boundaries
of the District, and that fact is put in issue by plea to the
jurisdiction, it is bound to establish that fact, and the case
must be tried on the law and the facts of the case.
Battery Cove, which includes the land in controversy, is
no part of the course or of the navigable body of the river.
In the Howsing grant it is expressly stated that the line
is a southwesterly line from Alexander's Island to Jones'
Point, which is a straight line. The presumption is that
a line between monuments is a straight one. This is not
overcome by the fact that monuments are at points on
the same river. Slade v. Etheridge, 13 Ired. Law, 553.
The Howsing grant, the legislation of the Colony and
State of Virginia, from 1753 to 1789, and from 1846 to
1912, the making of land by Virginia and her citizens into
the Potomac all along the Alexandria river front, covering a distance of two blocks east of the shore line of 1748,
making 14 city blocks and including streets containing an
area bf about 35 acres, sustain the prescriptive claim of
territorial sovereignty and jurisdiction in Virginia.
Possession under the Howsing grant of a part of the
land comprehended within its boundaries, constitutes possession of the whole; especially is this true where acts of
possession and claim of ownership under the grant, and
the exercise of sovereignty and jurisdiction by the State
and city, have continued for so long a period. Taxes have
been imposed and collected thereon by both Virginia and
Alexandria during all that period, except between the cession and recession of the Virginia territory. All titles to
property within the lines of the Howsing grant in Alexandria City and County, including Alexander's Island and
Pearson's Island, and to the made lands on the Alexandria
river front, are recorded in Virginia. Jackson v. Camp, 1
Cowp. 605, 612. This constructive possession has its
origin in the maxim of the common law that "possession

50

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

257 U.S.

without following indentations, bays, creeks, etc.; and to
this line Virginia had become entitled as early as 1785 by
prescriptive right, and it was fixed and established by the
Compact of 1785, all of which appears from the report
and award of the arbitrators selected under agreement by
Maryland and Virginia, and the subsequent acceptance
thereof by the acts of assembly of both States and the
consent thereto by Congress.
The grants by James I to Virginia do not appear to
have been in evidence, or even considered, in Morris v.
United States, supra. Out of these conflicting grants
there arose a lengthy controversy between Maryland and
Virginia,-Maryland claiming by virtue of the charter of
Charles I to Lord Baltimore the whole of the Potomac to
high-water mark on the Virginia side, and Virginia claiming by virtue of the charters of James I and by prescription to high-water on the Maryland side, Virginia insisting that the boundaries of the territory under the grant
to Lord Baltimore extended only to high-water mark on
the Maryland side. During the 150 years or more this
controversy continued, Virginia always asserted territorial
jurisdiction, ownership and possession of the shores or
strands on the Virginia side, which is evidenced by the
grant of land to include the soil under the waters on the
Virginia side of the river to Howsing, in 1669, which was
prior to the grant, of James I, in 1688, to Lord Culpeper.
See Maryland v. West Virginia, 217 U. S. 1, 45; s. c. 217
U. S. 577-581.
The Act of Congress of 1874, defining the political
boundaries of the District of Columbia, does not alter the
boundary line between Virginia and the District, as set
forth in the arbitration and award of 1878; according to
the true interpretation of the act, it serves only to confirm
the contention of plaintiff in error.
Although that act is a political declaration of the
boundaries of the District, yet, when the United States

MARINE RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
47.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

13. The United States is entitled to the possession of land in the
District which it has reclaimed by filling below low water line on.
the Virginia side, though access to the water from private lands adjacent be thereby interrupted. P. 66.

49 App. D. C. 285; 265 Fed. 437, affirmed.

ERRoR to review a judgment of the Court of Appeals of
the District of Columbia which affirmed a judgment of
the Supreme Court of the District in favor of the United
States in a suit brought by the United States to recover
a strip of made land on the Potomac River.
Mr. James R. Caton for plaintiff in error.
In Maryland v. West Virginia, 217 U. S. 1, 517, this
court recognized that the arbitration and award established the boundary line between Virginia and Maryland,
to be the true boundary line between said States, agree-,
ably to the Compact of 1785. And see Wharton v. Wise,
153 U. S. 155, 172, 173.
The claim of the plaintiff in error not being founded on
the Culpeper grant, is distinguished from Morris v.
United States, 174 U. S. 196. There was no evidence in
that case of any substantial claim by Lord Fairfax, or by
his grantees, to property rights in the Potomac River or
the soil thereunder; nor was there any evidence that Virginia ever exercised the power to grant ownership in the
islands or soil under the river to private persons. In this
case, the Howsing grant of 1669, and its history, show that
Virginia claimed the right and exercised the power, and
has for 243 years, and up to the time of this suit, consistently and continuously claimed and exercised territorial dominion and jurisdiction.
The true boundary between Maryland and Virginia in
1785, and for a long time prior thereto, on the Virginia
side of the Potomac, was a uniform line at low-water
mark from one headland to low-water mark at another,

48

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

See Maryland v. West Virginia, 217 U. S. 1, 45, 46; id. 577, 578;
and Morris v. United States, 174 U. S. 196.
6. The Maryland title was not affected by later charters granted by
James I to Virginia. P. 63.
7. A grant made by the Governor of Virginia to one Howsing in 1669,
with a boundary "extending down Potomack River by various
courses 3152 po. making a S. Wtly line to a pokecory," etc., and
" including several small creeks or inlets," held consistent with as
well as subordinate to the Maryland grant, merely following the
line of the stream and not intended to include an indentation or
cove. P. 63.
8. The grant made by Virginia to the United States of territory
formerly included in the District of Columbia and its re-grant by
the United States did not enlarge Virginia's rights as they were
originally. P. 63.
9. The compact entered into between Virginia and Maryland, in
1785, to regulate commerce, which provided, inter alia, that the
Potomac should be a common highway for purposes of navigation
and commerce to the citizens of both States and gave the citizens
of each full property in the shores of the river adjoining their
lands with wharfing and fishing rights, did not settle the question
of boundary between the States. P. 63.
10. The arbitration of boundary between Virginia and Maryland, the
award in which was accepted by those States in 1878 and assented
to by the United States (Act of March 3, 1879, c. 196, 20 Stat.
481,) fixing the line at low water mark on the Virginia side of the
Potomac drawn from headland to headland, did not involve or
affect the boundary as between Virginia and the District of Columbia. P. 64.
11. The filling in and adverse occupation of land originally below low
water mark on the Virginia side of the Potomac under an erroneous
claim that the Virginia line included a cove in which the land was
situated by extending from headland to headland, gave no prescriptive right, as against Maryland or the United States, to land lying
in the cove, and below low water next to the areas so filled, even
though the claim was supported by Virginia statutes. P. 65.
12. The description of the District of Columbia in the Revised
Statutes relating thereto, June 22, 1874, § 1, as "including the
river Potomac in its course through the District," imports an assertion by Congress that the title of the United States embraces the
whole river; and the jurisdiction of the District over the river
seems to have been exercised without dispute. P. 65.

MARINE RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
42.

Syllabus.

under §§ 37 and 148 of the Criminal Code and the Act
of Congress of September 24, 1917, properly construed.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

MARINE RAILWAY & COAL COMPANY, INC. v.
UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 45. Argued October 18, 1921.-Decided November 7, 1921.
1. The jurisdiction of this court to review judgments of the Court of
Appeals of the District of Columbia "in cases in which the jurisdiction of the trial court is in issue" (Jud. Code, § 250, cl. 1),
attaches to a case originating in the Supreme Court of the District in which the issue concerned the territorial limits of that
court's jurisdiction. P. 62.
2. The Supreme Court of the District of Columbia being a court of
general jurisdiction, there is no occasion to limit the natural scope
of Jud. Code, § 250, cl. 1, after the manner in which the similarly
worded § 238, applicable to the District Courts of the United
States, has been confined to cases in which their jurisdiction as
federal courts is involved. P. 62.
3. A certificate of the question of jurisdiction is not necessary, under
Jud. Code, § 250, supra, where the issue was clearly made by plea
and a certificate could add nothing to the record. P. 62.
4. Quwre: Whether the rule construing the sixth clause of Jud. Code,
§ 250, as conferring jurisdiction only when the law drawn in question is of general application throughout the United States, as distinguished from one local to the District, would apply in a case
involving a statute fixing the boundary of the District. P. 62. Cf.
American Security & Trust Co. v. District of Columbia, 224 U. S.
491.
5. The original title of Maryland, to which the United States suc.
ceeded in the District of Columbia, extended at least to the low
water mark on the Virginia side of the Potomac River. P. Q3.

46

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

tirely new law-a law which would hinder and obstruct
persons from the exercise of the yaluable property right
which such persons have exercised in the full belief of its
propriety for some years past."
These contentions prevailed with Judge Hough in the
District Court. He said: "When Congress authorized the
issuance of 'stamps to evidence payments for or on account of such certificates,' and did not deny to the stamp
holders the right of transfer, such right existed. The
Treasury has sought to take it away by making the certificates non-transferable. Assuming that power exists to
prohibit transfer of the certificates, I am wholly unable to
perceive that there is any congressional authority for the
Secretary's prohibiting the transferability of the stamps
affixed to the certificates.
"Nowhere is it said that any particular stamp shall
evidence a payment on any particular certificate.
"This I think is the gist of the matter: Is a regulation
which as interpreted, in terms takes away a property right
in a manner not specifically authorized by statute, a valid
rule? I cannot persuade myself that such is the case."
And after citing United States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506,
and other cases, and attempting to confine them to mere
"procedural regulation," he said: "A stamp is a thing of
value, bought and paid for, and to deprive it of the
quality of assignability is a diminution of lawfully existing property rights for which in my judgment congressional action alone will suffice."
The act of Congress has broader meaning than that assigned to it by the District Court, as we expressed in the
Sacks Case, and there decided that the Secretary had the
power which he exercised.
The reasoning of the opinion in that case applies in
this, and determines the reversal of the judgment of the
District Court. In other words, determines that the facts
stated in the counts are sufficient to constitute crimes

UNITED STATES v. JANOWITZ.
42.

Opinion of the Court.

to defraud the United States, and one of them did an
"act to effect the object of said conspiracy, against the
peace of the United States and their dignity and contrary
to the form of the statute of the United States in such
case made and provided." (§ 37, Crim. Code.)
The second count, with about the same detail of circumstances as contained in the first count, charges that
the defendants at a particular time conspired to commit
an offense against the United States in that they conspired to alter, with intent to defraud, obligations of the
United States, that is, the war savings certificates of the
United States issued under the Act of September 24,
1917, with war savings certificate stamps affixed thereto.
It is difficult to succinctly represent the contentions of
defendants. Their basic proposition seems to be that the
certificates and war stamps were lawfully purchased from
the Secretary of the Treasury and became the property of
the purchaser and that, therefore, in the absence of an
express statutory enactment, the right of the purchaser to
alienate or sell them and of the defendants in error to
acquire them was absolute and could not be made unlawful by a mere executive regulation. Or, to put it another
way, as counsel puts it, "that the exchange, sale, or barter
of war savings stamps is a perfectly lawful business
under the strictest letter of the enabling statute." The
deduction, therefore, is that the Secretary of the Treasury
had not power conferred upon him to issue the circulars
and prescribe the conditions endorsed upon the certificates, and their violation was no crime but was the exercise of a property right.
This is the ultimate deduction and emphasis of defendants in error's argument. It is not contended that
Congress could not have prescribed such limitation, but
it is contended Congress did not do so nor authorize the
Secretary of the Treasury to do so and that, therefore, his
regulations are void. They write, it is asserted, "an en-

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

fendants in the case, defendants in error here, purchased
from persons not authorized by the Secretary of the
Treasury to sell the same, a quantity of war savings certificates of the series of 1918 and 1919, with savings certificate stamps affixed thereto, and that the defendants
well knew that the certificates and the stamps were not
transferable, were worthless in their hands, and could not
be redeemed by them at or prior to maturity dates thereof,
and were not payable to anyone save one who had purchased them from an authorized agent of the United
States, and to a person whose name was written on them
at the time of issue and purchase, but conspired to obtain
them for themselves from the United States prior to the
maturity date of the certificates and stamps knowing that
they were not entitled thereto and that the United States
was not obligated to pay them, and thereby defraud the
United States.
The defendants as part of their conspiracy, is the
further averment, conspired to obtain in a manner contrary to the provisions of the act of Congress to the effect
that the amount of certificates sold to any one person at
any one time should not exceed $100, a number of blank
certificates of a maturity value in excess of $100, to which
stamps had not been affixed and on which the name of
the owner had not been written, to detach from the certificates so purchased, the stamps, and to affix the stamps
to blank certificates and to write upon them the name of
some person, other than any one of the defendants, and
to present them at a post office of the United States for
payment.
To effect the object of the conspiracy it is averred that
the defendant Janowitz, at the Southern District of New
York, maintained during the months of August and September, 1919, an office for the purpose of purchasing certificates and stamps, and that in the manner described,
the defendants at the times and places set forth conspired

UNITED STATES v. JANOWITZ.
42.

Opinion of the Court.

for payment, is a conspiracy to defraud the United States (Crim.
Code, § 37) and to commit the offense of altering, with intent to
defraud, obligations of the United States (Crim. Code, §§ 37, 148.)
P. 45. United States v. Sacks, ante, 37.
Reversed.
WRxT of error under the Criminal Appeals Act to review a judgment sustaining a demurrer to an indictment.

Mr. William C. Herron, with whom Mr. Assistant Attorney General Stewart was on the brief, for the United
States.
Mr. Jonah J. Goldstein, for defendants in error, submitted. Mr. David Goldstein and Mr. Aiken A. Pope
were also on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE

McKENNvA delivered the opinion of the

court.
This case was submitted with No. 48, United States v.
Sacks, ante, 37. It was decided in the District Court at
the same time as the Sacks Case and upon the same opinion, the legal propositions being the same in both cases.
They were presented upon demurrers to the indictments.
The indictment in the present case is in two counts, the
first charging a violation of § 37 of the Criminal Code and
the second charging a conspiracy under § 37 to violate
§ 148. The basis of both is a conspiracy to defraud the
United States by the violation of the Act of Congress of
September 24, 1917, c. 56, 40 Stat. 291, passed on- in
United States v. Sacks. The ways and means of the execution of the conspiracy are described with much detail
by a recitation of the Acts of Congress of September 24,
1917, and September 24, 1918, c. 176, 40 Stat. 966, and
the provisions of the circulars issued by the Secretary of
the Treasury providing for the execution of the purpose
of those acts. And specifically, it is averred that the de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

cluded, as a condition to the validity of the certificate
as an obligation of the United States, the affixing of a
stamp thereto, and that not more than twenty stamps of
the series of 1918 might be affixed, and that no one person could at any one time hold certificates of an aggregate amount exceeding $1,000.
These conditions were defeated and intended to be
defeated by the action of Sacks in tearing from the face
of the certificate two stamps. Such action constituted an
alteration of the certificate and the stamps with intent to
use the same without the remainder of the certificate
signed by the purchaser and thus to defraud the United
States by defeating the purposes of the law of September
24, 1917, and the circulars of the Secretary of the Treasury empowered to be issued under that law, and the terms
and conditions endorsed on the certificate, and the court's
decision to the contrary was a misconstruction of the Act
of September 24.
There therefore was a violation of § 151 as charged in
the third count of the indictment, Sacks having in his
possession, with intent to defraud the United States, an
altered obligation of the United States.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

UNITED STATES v. JANOWITZ ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 49. Argued October 20, 1921.-Deeided November 7, 1921.
A conspiracy to. purchase war savings certificates from their Qwners,
remove the stamps therefrom, attach them to other, blank war
savings certificates to be illegally procured, write upon the latter
the names of persons other than the conspirators, and present
them, so stamped and signed, at a post office of the United States

UNITED STATES v. SACKS.
37.

Opinion of the Court.

tion of the United States. (2) That the removal of the
stamps was the destruction of the certificate, not its alteration. The purpose of § 148, it is contended, is to prevent the utterance and passing of spurious instruments
and the alteration of genuine ones either by changing
their form, or increasing or decreasing their obligation.
In development and illustration of the contention, it is
asserted that the Government received full value for the
stamps, and its liability thereon was fixed when the
stamps came into Sacks' possession and continued the
same no matter how many times the stamps changed
hands. "The owner of the stamp could affix it to or remove it from the card [certificate] without changing the
obligation of the United States." And further, "the
definition to be given the word ' alteration' is no different
in the case of a Government obligation than the alteration of a private obligation. If the alteration does not
prejudice the rights of the obligor the act of alteration will
not constitute a crime." Cases are cited in support of the
contentions.
The contentions are based on a misapprehension of the
act providing for the certificates and the necessary relation of the sections of the Criminal Code to the purposes
of that act. Whether the certificates or the stamps be
considered individual or composite obligations of the
United States, necessarily the alteration of both or either
is within § 148 of the Criminal Code. Their purpose is
defeated and perhaps perverted by alteration. They are
but instruments of the law and the law is to be considered.
It provided an opportunity of investment for persons of
small means, and the power to prescribe ways adequate to
the purpose was given to the Secretary of the Treasury.
In other words, details of execution were committed to
him with power to give to the certificate and the stamps
such character, quality and legal effect that he should
consider to be efficient. And, exercising the power, he in-

40

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

possession or conceal with like intent, any falsely made,
forged, counterfeited, or altered obligation or other se.
curity of the United States .
Section 147 of the Criminal Code defines obligations
and securities of the United States to be evidences of indebtedness, and adds to a specific enumeration the comprehensive words "stamps and other representatives of
value, of whatever denomination, which have been or
may be issued under any act of Congress."
Section 154 makes dealing in the false and counterfeited
obligations of either section an offense.
The Act of Congress of September 24, 1917, c. 56, 40
Stat. 291, authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to borrow, from time to time on the credit of the United States,
such sum or sums as in his judgment may be necessary,
and to issue therefor, at such price or prices, and upon
such terms and conditions as he may determine, war
savings certificates of the United States on which interest
to maturity may be discounted in advance at such rate or
rates and computed in such manner as he may prescribe.
Further detail of the act is not necessary except to say
that the amount of certificates sold to any one person at
any one time shall not exceed $100-nor shall any one
person at any one time hold more than $1,000. And it
is provided that the Secretary of the Treasury may upon
such terms and regulations as he may prescribe, issue or
cause to be issued, stamps to evidence payment for or on
account of such certificates.
It will be observed from this statement of the provisions of the law that to sustain the indictment there
must be the fact of an alteration of an obligation of the
United States, or having in possession an altered obligation with intent to pass and sell the same. It is contended by Sacks that such was not the condition, and to
sustain the contention two propositions are urged: (1)
That neither the certificate nor the stamps was an obliga-

UNITED STATES v. SACKS.
37.

Opinion of the Court.

stamp of the series of 1918 then affixed thereto, the
amount indicated thereon as then payable, or at his
option, will be entitled to receive at an earlier date a
lesser amount indicated by a table thereon.
Among the terms and conditions are the following:
"(1) This certificate is not a valid obligation unless a
United States War-Savings Certificate Stamp of the
Series of 1918 is affixed hereto. (2) This certificate is
of no value except to the owner named hereon, and is not
transferable. (3) Not more than twenty United States
War-Savings Certificate Stamps, and only such Stamps
of the Series of 1918, may be affixed hereto. . .
(6) The law provides that no one person shall at any one
time hold War-Savings Certificates to an aggregate
amount exceeding One Thousand Dollars."
The names of the owners are endorsed on the certificates, and their addresses.
The indictment was quashed on Sacks' motion on the
ground, recited in the judgment, that the indictment was
not "authorized under any construction of the act of
Congress upon which it is alleged to be predicated, to wit,
the act of Congress of September 24, 1917, and section 6,
and as amended by the act of Congress of September 24,
1918, section 2 thereof, and sections 148 and 151 of the
Criminal Code of the United States, or under the construction of any other statute of the United States now in
force."
The judgment and the action of the court are assigned
as error. The construction of the sections of the Criminal
Code and the act of Congress referred to is necessarily
involved: Section 148 makes an offender "whoever, with
intent to defraud, shall falsely make, forge, counterfeit,
or alter any obligation or other security of the United
." Section 151 makes an offender "whoStates. .
ever, with intent to defraud, shall pass, utter, publish,
or sell," or attempt to do either act, "or shall keep in

38

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

of error under the Criminal Appeals Act, to review a judgment quashing an indictment. See post, 42.
WRIT

Mr. William C. Herron, with whom Mr. Assistant Attorney General Stewart was on the brief, for the United
States.
Mr. Joseph A. Seidman, for defendant in error, submitted.
MR. JusTIcE McIKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This case presents for consideration an indictment in
three counts for the violation, respectively, of §§ 148 and
151 of the Criminal Code of the United States, as dependent upon the construction of an act of Congress to
which we shall refer.
The first two counts charge that Sacks did, "with intent
to defraud, alter an obligation of the United States, to
wit, a war savings certificate of the United States of the
series of 1918, . . . in that [he] did . . . tear
from the face of said war savings certificate two war savings certificate stamps of the United States of the series
of 1918, thereto before attached."
The third count charges Sacks with having in his possession, with intent to defraud the United States, and
with intent to pass and sell the same, an altered obligation of the United States, to wit, a portion of a war savings certificate of the United States of the series of 1918,
with three war savings certificate stamps thereto attached,
in that the portion which he had and kept in his possession had been torn from a whole war savings certificate.
The indictment is illustrated by having examples of the
certificates attached. They certify, subject to the terms
and conditions expressed thereon, that the owner will be
entitled to receive January 1, 1923, in respect to each

UNITED STATES v. SACKS.
27.

37

Syllabus.

patent, if any, the evidence here is quite sufficient to overcome it.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed,
and that of the District Court is affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. SACKS.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 48. Argued October 20, 1921.-Decided November 7,- 1921.
1. Under the Act of September 24, 1917, amended September 24,
1918, cc. 56, 176, 40 Stat. 291, 966, authorizing the Secretary of
the Treasury to borrow money and to issue therefor, at such price
or prices and upon such terms and conditions as he might determine, war savings certificates in amounts of not more than $100 to
any one person at any one time, and of which no one person at
any one time should hold more than $1,000, and further providing
that the Secretary might issue stamps, under such regulations and
upon such terms and conditions as he might prescribe, to evidence
payments for or on account of the certificates, the Secretary was
empowered to issue non-transferable certificates valid only when
bearing one or more such stamps and when endorsed with the name
of its owner. Pp. 39, 41.
2. War savings certificates and war savings certificate stamps, issued
pursuant to the act and the regulations, are obligations of the
United States within the meaning of §§ 148 and 151 of the Criminal
Code. P. 40.
3. One who tears war savings certificate stamps from a war savings
certificate issued to another, with intent to use them apart from the
certificate bearing the purchaser's name, alters the obligation with
intent to defraud (the United States) in the sense of Criminal
Code, § 148, since the purposes of the Act of September 24, 1917,
supra, and the conditions provided to insure them, will thus be
fraudulently defeated. P. 42.
4. Possession of part of such certificate and attached stamps, with
intent to defraud the United States as above, is a violation of
Criminal Code, § 151. P. 42.
Reversed.

36

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

of the Dickinson patent, so that in each the path of the
candy is better described as an in-and-out movement than
as a figure 8. The arrangement of the hooks by Langer
is better than Dickinson's, but' the principle of their operation is the same.
The counsel for the respondent, however, urge that the
trough, not shown in the alleged infringement, is a necessary element of Dickinson's claim, because without it the
batch of candy could not be supported against gravity, and
he suggests no alternative. Dickinson says in his specifications that he shows a trough for supporting the candy,
but any suitable support may be used which has the capacity for supporting the candy while it is being operated
upon. Two of the machines, the Jenner and the first
Thibodeau, which were in interference in the Patent Office
with Dickinson, had the pins set, not in an upright but
in a horizontal position, and thus the candy in their
machines needed no trough support but rested on the
pins themselves, and this Langer has adopted. Doubtless
this was an improvement which was perhaps patentable,
but none of the tribunals in the Patent Office proceedings
deemed this to be more than an improved equivalent of
the trough which did not take these machines out of the
domination of the claim awarded to Dickinson. As the
Dickinson patent is a generic patent, the doctrine of
broad equivalents properly applies here. Morley .Sewing
Machine Co. v. Lancaster, 129 U. S. 263, 273; Miller v.
Eagle Manufacturing Co., 151 U. S. 186, 207; Paper Bag
Patent Case, 210 U. S. 405.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the issuing of
the Langer patent, after the Dickinson patent, raised the
presumption of a patentable difference between that
patent and the Dickinson patent, and against infringement. It is not necessary for us, however, to discuss that
question, for we think that whatever presumption against
infringement may attach to the issuing of the second

HILDRETH v. MASTORAS.
27.

Opinion of the Court.

duce its cost to one-tenth of what it had been before him,
and to enlarge the field of the art. He was, therefore, a
pioneer.
We come now to the question of infringement. In the
Langer patent, applied for in 1916 and issued in 1917,
which the alleged infringement embodies, there is a socalled "floating puller," which is carried through a course
of travel corresponding in form to the figure 8, and around
fixed supporting pins arranged concentrically within the
two circular portions of figure 8. The candy is pulled by
the floating puller and alternately carried thereby around
the fixed supporting pins. Instead of having Dickinson's
single stationary pin and two other pins which move
relatively to it and to one another, the machine of the
Langer patent has two stationary pins and a third one
which moves relatively to both of them in an actual and
rigid figure 8.
Taking the first claim of Dickinson's patent as it reads,
one can trace every element of it in the Langer machine.
We find there a plurality of oppositely-disposed candy
hooks or supports. The candy-puller is found in the
movable pin of Langer, and a relative in-and-out motion
in the pulling process is palpably present.
Both Dickinson and Langer in their specifications characterize the path of the candy under the operation of the
hooks as being along a course of travel corresponding in
form to the figure 8. The Circuit Court of Appeals found,
however, that the in-and-out movement of the Langer
patent was different from the in-and-out movement of
the Dickinson patent, in that it was a true figure 8 in the
former, whereas in the Dickinson patent the candy follows
a path of a series of V's and not a true figure 8 path at
all. We differ from the Court of Appeals in this view.
The actual movement of the candy in the Langer patent,
even though the movable pin follows a fixed path of figure
8, forms a succession of V's closely resembling the V's

34

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

Dickinson invention, the cancelation does not seem to us
important or to require a narrowing of Dickinson's claim
for the described and indispensable codperation of three
or more pins to produce that movement.
The Court of Appeals bases something of its conclusion
in this case on the alleged inoperativeness of the Dickinson machine. As to this, we find no reason in the record
for disturbing the finding of the District Judge, with the
working model and the witnesses before him, supported as
he is by the finding of the Patent Office and the District
Court of Appeals on extended evidence on this very point
before them. It is not necessary, in order to sustain a
generic patent, to show that the device is a commercial
success. The machine patented may be imperfect in its
operation; but if it embodies the generic principle, and
works, that is, if it actually and mechanically performs,
though only in a crude way, the important function by
which it makes the substantial change claimed for it in
the art, it is enough. Telephone Cases, 126 U. S. 1, 535;
Mergenthaler Linotype Co. v. Press Publishing Co., 57
Fed. 502, 505.
The Patent Office treated the Dickinson invention as a
primary or generic one. So did the Court of Appeals of
the District of Columbia (25 App. D. C. 316), Judge Rose
of the District Court of Maryland (Hitdreth v. Lauer &
Suter Co., 208 Fed. 1005), and the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Fourth Circuit (Lauter & Suter Co. v. Hildreth, 219 Fed. 753). In this view, after a consideration
of the record, and for the reasons stated, we concur. The
history of the art shows that Dickinson took the important but long delayed and therefore not obvious step
from the pulling of candy by two hands guided by a
human mind and will to the performance of the same
function by machine. The ultimate effbct of this step
with the mechanical or patentable improvements of his
device was to make candy pulling more sanitary, to re-

HILDRETH v. MASTORAS.
27.

Opinion of the Court.

December 19, 1893. The machine shown in the Firchau
patent comprises two discs which are rotated in opposite
directions. On each disc is a finger which projects into a
drum, into which the candy is put. The pins pass each
other twice during each revolution of the disc and move
in concentric circles, but do not have the relative in-andout motion or figure 8 movement of the Dickinson machine. With only two hooks there could be no lapping of
the candy, because there was no third pin to re-engage
the candy while it was held between the other two pins.
The movement of the two pins in concentric circles might
stretch it somewhat and stir it, but it would not pull it
in the sense of the art. The Firchau device never, so far
as appears in the record, made candy experimentally or
otherwise. Indeed, no candy was commercially pulled
by machine before or after the issuing of the Firchau
patent in 1893 until the introduction of the Dickinson
principle, nine or ten years later.
Counsel for the respondent in seeking to narrow the
construction of the broad claim of Dickinson rely on the
circumstance that one of Dickinson's claims in the Patent
Office was canceled on a reference to Firchau. The canceled claim of Dickinson was:
"In a candy-pulling machine in combination a series of
pins or pulling members, and automatically acting means
for causing said members to feed the candy to each other
and pull the same."
The Examiner evidently considered that the word
"series" might be held to cover a device with only two
pins, as shown in the Firchau patent; though, having in
mind the essential elements of the Dickinson patent, it
could hardly have borne such a construction. However.
that may be, as neither Firchau nor anyone else has
shown, with two pins only, the in-and-out movement in
pulling candy, which is the fundamental element of the

32

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

of the relative position of the three pins is such that in
a complete cycle of operation of the machine one of the
pins passes through the space between the other two, and
then another of the pins passes through a space between
the other two, and then the third between the other two,
each pin at one phase of the operation passing between
two others, and at another phase of the operation being
one of the pair between which the third one is passing.
Just as the hand pulling of the candy produced a bundle
of parallel fibers between which were formed air cells
rendering the mass porous, so the mechanism of Dickinson's machine secures the same result. It elongates the
candy, folds it upon itself, again elongates the folded
mass, again folds it upon itself and repeats the operation
in order. So far as this record discloses, no candy pulling
has been successful which does not in some form by an
arrangement of three or more pins show this in-and-out
movement to pull and lap the candy, and no one had
shown it prior to Dickinson.
Dickinson's claim here sued on is as follows:
"A candy-pulling machine comprising a plurality of oppositely-disposed candy hooks or supports, a candy-puller,
and means for producing a specified relative in-and-out
motion of these parts for the purpose set forth."
This, as already said, is the claim which was framed in
the Patent Office as the issue of the interference proceeding, and of which Dickinson was given priority over all.
The presumption of priority and novelty which arises
from the granting of a patent must have greatly increased
weight when the claim of the inventor is subjected to such
close and careful scrutiny under the stimulus of a heated
contest.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held the claim of Dickinson to be limited by a prior patent to Firchau for a candy
working machine applied for in March, 1893, and issued

HILDRETH v. MASTORAS.
27.

Opinion of the Court.

purchased, but none of the model of Dickinson's. Mastoras, the respondent here, was for some time a licensee of
Hildreth until he made and used his present machine.
In candy pulling by hand, the puller works the boiled
candy, cooled but still warm and sticky, into a sausagelike piece two or three feet long, and weighing 20 or 25
pounds, called a batch. He throws the middle of this over
a hook fixed in the wall about the level of his chin. He
pulls down the two ends, stretching the batch two or
three times its length. Then he holds the ends together
with one hand and with the other seizes the two strands
about their middle and carries them over the hook, thus
making a new bight of the folded or lapped strands over
the hook, and shortening the lengths hanging from the
hook, the ends of which are now brought together and
pulled down again. This operation repeated often, brings
the candy into desired condition.
In the Dickinson machine, the candy is placed in the
bottom of a trough, in the center of which is an upright
pin, referred to in the patent as the "candy-puller."
There are two other pins suspended over the trough from
the ends of an arm or plate which in turn is fixed to a
support and made to rotate. By suitable contrivance, the
support which carries the pins is made to move back and
forth from end to end of the trough. At each end of the
trough, the pins are made by the rotary motion of the
plate to which they are suspended, to reverse their positions from one side of the trough to the other before beginning their movement in the opposite direction. In
this way there is produced an in-and-out movement of the
suspended pins relative to the stationary pin every time
they reach and depart from the ends of the trough. This
movement causes the "batch" of the candy in the trough,
attached itself to the movable pins, to be pulled by lapping on itself as the suspended pins pass and repass the
fixed pin and as their positions are reversed. The change

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

The controversy in the Patent Office lasted five years,
was strenuously contested, and was carried to the Court
of Appeals of the District of Columbia. The controversy
involved, among other issues, that of the operativeness of
Dickinson's device, as does the present case in one of its
phases. He had given a public test of his machine at
Grand Rapids where he lived, in 1900, and had invited a
numbef of witnesses. They were called before the Examiner to testify whether the machine had worked successfully, and the Examiner found from the great weight
of evidence that it had. Hildreth was a witness in the
District Court below on this issue. He was in the embarrassing situation of having fought, in the Patent Office,
Dickinson's claim, which he was now supporting as his
property. He testified that while Dickinson's machine
was not a success commercially, he had found that by
shortening it and speeding it up, in accord with a suggestion of Dickinson, he could and did make satisfactory
candy. The record shows that the judge in the District
Court below had a working model before him which he
refers toas demonstrating that the device is operative.
Hildreth has been a candy manufacturer of Boston for
many years, and since 1906 has made candy machines.
In addition to his own patent, he has acquired by purchase all the other patents in interference with Dickinson.
He acquired the Dickinson patent from Thibodeau before
its issue, for $75,000.
By these new devices the art of candy making has been
revolutionized. Some kinds of candy which if pulled at
all had to be pulled when cold, could not be pulled by
hand, because it required more than man strength; but
they are now pulled by power machines. The production
of candy has greatly increased, and 90 per cent. of all the
pulled candy made is pulled by machine. Hildreth makes
a half dozen different classes of machines which embody
the devices of his own patent and others which he has

HILDRETH v. MASTORAS.
27.

Opinion of the Court.

then the cooling on a slab, and then the pulling. After
boiling and cooling, it is a compact mass of dark color.
The pulling aefates it and makes it less in weight but
larger in bulk, lighter in color and more capable of holding
flavor. Until the beginning of this century, candy was
pulled only by hand. It required much strength. Candy
pullers were hard to get. The work was strenuous and
produced perspiration and uncleanliness. It was done
with the bare hands, and it was impossible to avoid danger
from eczema and abrasions of the skin of the hands. It
was neither appetizing nor sanitary. A good candy puller
might pull three hundred pounds of candy a day. The
capacity of the large machines now in use is two and onehalf tons each, and one man can attend to two machines.
Thus since 1900, the art has advanced from a production
of 300 pounds a day to 10,000 pounds, with the same
labor.
In April, 1900, Dickinson published an article in the
trade journal, "The Confectioner," describing a machine
for pulling candy and offering it for sale. He advertised
it quite largely. Hildreth ordered the Dickinson machine,
tested it and rejected it as unsatisfactory. One of Hildreth's men, Thibodeau, having seen and worked on the
Dickinson machine, made a machine which worked better.
Hildreth filed an application for a patent for one device
for pulling candy Septembet 21, 1900. Thibodeau filed
an application for another November 26, 1900, and an
interference was declared between them. Thibodeau
thereafter bought Dickinson's invention and caused him
to file an application for a patent November 5, 1901. Six
applications were pending in the Patent Office at the same
time, those of Dickinson, Hildreth, Jenner, Thibodeau,
Robinson and Henry, and the Patent Office framed the
issue between them in terms exactly those afterwards
granted to Dickinson as the claim relied on in this case.

28

o0TOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

candy was supported by them, was at most an improved equivalent. P. 36.
6. A generic patent is entitled to broad equivalents. P. 36.
263 Fed. 571, reversed.
CERTIORARI to review a judgment of the Circuit Court

of Appeals in a suit brought by the present petitioner to
enjoin an infringement of his patent. The District Court
granted the injunction, 253 Fed. 68; but it was reversed
by the court below, 263 Fed. 571.
Mr. George P. Dike, with whom Mr. Frederic D. McKenney was on the briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. Joseph L. Atkins, for respondent, submitted.
W. A. Robbins was also on the briefs.

Mr.

MR. CHmiE JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit bringing here for review a decree of
that court, reversing one of the District Court of Oregon.
granting an injunction against infringement of a patent
for a candy pulling machine. The patent, No. 831,501,
was issued to Hildreth as assignee by mesne assignments
of Dickinson. Mastoras, the defendant in the District
Court, made and used a candy pulling machine, under a
later patent of Langer. The Circuit Court of Appeals held
the claim of the Dickinson patent sued on to be so limited
as not to cover the Langer device. 253 Fed. 68; 263
Fed. 571.
The chief question in this case is infringement, and that
turns on the question whether Dickinson's invention is
held to be a primary or generic invention, or a narrow one
limited solely to the device shown.
Not all candy is pulled, but much o4' .t is. The process
is first the mixture of the ingredients, then the boiling,

HILDRETH v. MASTORAS.
Syllabus.

HILDRETH v. MASTORAS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 51.

Argued October 21, 1921.-Decided November 7, 1921.

1. The presumption of priority and novelty which arises from the
granting of a patent has greatly increased weight when the claim
of the inventor was subjected to close and careful scrutiny in the
Patent Office under the stimulus of a heated contest. P. 32.
2. It is not necessary, in order to sustain a generic patent, to show
that the device is a commercial success. The machine patented
may be imperfect in operation, but if it embodies the generic
principle, and works-that is, if it actually and mechanically performs, though only in a crude way, the important function by
which it makes the substantial change claimed for it in the art, it
is enough. P. 34.
3. A patentee who took the important but long-delayed and therefore not obvious step from the pulling of candy by hand to the
performance of the same function by machine, the ultimate effect
of which, with the mechanical and patentable improvements of his
device, was greatly to reduce its cost, and to enlarge the field of
the art, was a pioneer. P. 34.
4. The Dickinson patent, No. 831,501, claim 1, for a candy-pulling
machine comprising a plurality of oppositely-disposed candy hooks
or supports, a candy-puller (consisting of a third pin or support),
and means for producing a specified relative in-and-out motion of
these parts for the purpose of alternately pulling and overlapping
the candy, held: (a) Not anticipated by the earlier Firchan patent,
comprising two hooks or pins attached to oppositely rotating discs
and passing each other in concentric circles. P. 32. (b) Infringed
by the later, Langer patent which, instead of having one stationary
pin and two others which move relatively to it and to each other,
as in the Dickinson construction, has two stationary pins and a
third which moves relatively to both of them, the path of the
candy under the operation of the pins being in both cases along a
course corresponding in form to a figure 8. P. 35.
5. The Dickinson patent, supra, provided a trough to support the
candy against gravity, but specified that any other support suitable
to support it while being operated might be used. Held, that the
trough was not an essential element and that an arrangement of
the pins in a horizontal instead of a vertical position, so that the

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

than the place in a sale of personalty. The case of Bornemann v. Norris, 47 Fed. 438, was also a sale of real estate,
and, moreover, was a direct proceeding to quash.
Nor do we think that the quoted language of the court
speaking through Mr. Justice Bradley in Amy v. Watertown, 130 U. S. 301, is in conflict with our view of the
effect of these conformity sections. The question in that
case was whether when the state statute provided that
process could be served on a city, only by leaving the
summons with the Mayor, and there was no Mayor, the
the federal court could order service to be made on some
one else. The court held that, under § 914, the United
States courts were limited to the method of service prescribed by the state statute. In adopting a state statute
as a guide to the conduct of the business of a United
States court and its officers, service on a state municipal
corporation specified by a state statute is a very different
matter from the fixing of the place for performing the
functions of the United States court and its officers. The
corporation is completely the creature of a State, and it is
usually within the function of the creator to say how the
creature shall be brought before judicial tribunals. It
was with reference to such a matter that Mr. Justice
Bradley said that the statute of 1872 was peremptory,
and federal courts must conform to the practice of state
courts.
For the reasons given, we hold that the sale of the 250
shares of stock to the Pacific Improvement Company
vested a good title.
The decree of the Supreme Court is reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed.

YAZOO & M. V. R. R. CO. v. CLARKSDALE. 25
10.

Opinion of the Court.

court house instead of at the state court house. The
inconvenience and danger of injustice to the judgment
debtor in having his land sold at the federal court house
when it may lie at a great distance from there in a remote
county of the State, furnish strong reason why federal
and other courts should hold compliance with the injunction of the state laws as to the place of sale of realty
indispensable to its validity. But in case of goods and
chattels which after seizure and levy can be viewed by
bidders as well at a federal court house as at a state
court house, there is little ground for holding that such
sales, like other proceedings under its authority, may not
be properly carried on at the place where the court sits.
The distinction between realty and goods and chattels in
this matter is recognized in the provisions already noticed,
of the Act of Congress of 1893. The first section provides
that the real estate must be sold either at the county
court house in the county where the land is, or on the
premises. No discretion is given the court to change the
sale to any other place. The second section, however,
while it directs that personalty shall be sold as provided
in the realty section, vests full discretion in the court to
sell it elsewhere.
The case of Smith v. Cockrill, 6 Wall. 756, is relied on
by counsel for respondent. That was a sale of real estate.
The state law required appraisal before sale and a sale
at not less than two-thirds the value thus fixed, both
of which requirements were wholly disregarded by the
marshal. The federal statute applying was the Act of
Congress of 1828, c. 68, 4 Stat. 278, which provided that
the forms of process, etc., should be the same as that
used in the state courts. The requirement for appraisal
of real estate and its sale at not less than two-thirds of
the appraised value by a ministerial officer is much more
importaut in protecting the rights of the judgment debtor

24

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

The court cites other cases of land sales by United
States marshals in support of this. Moody's Heirs v.
Moeler, 72 Tex. 635, in which the sale was at the United
States court house just across the street from the county
court house; Sinclair v. Stanley, 64 Tex. 72; Casseday v.
Norris, 49 Tex. 613; Jenners v. Doe, 9 Ind. 461. Mr.
Freeman, in his work on Executions, § 289, vol. 2, says
of these cases that although a view that such sales were
voidable only would be reasonable, the weight of authority sustains them.
With respect to goods and chattels, however, the sale
at the place fixed by statute has not been regarded as so
essential as compliance with the requirement that the
officer selling them shall have the goods in view of the
buyers, Freeman on Execution, § 290, vol. 2; and yet,
the authorities are divided on the question whether a
departure from this requirement renders the sale of personalty void. We do not feel called upon, however, to
inquire and decide which is the better view, because we
think that under § 916, in respect to sales of personalty,
the federal court house was a proper place for holding
the sale.
Section 914 requires that the proceedings in commonlaw cases in the federal court shall conform to those of
state courts "as near as may be." Section 916 gives the
judgment creditor remedies on common-law executions
"similar" to those of the state court. These qualifying
words recognize the necessity for some play in adapting
the state procedure to the practice of the federal courts.
Certain things must be changed. The officer issuing the
writ of execution must be the United States clerk, the
officer executing it must be the marshal, and not the
sheriff, the name of the court must be different, and it
is but a reasonable and obvious consequence that the
place of the proceedings generally shall be at the federal

YAZOO & M. V. R. R. CO. v. CLARKSDALE.
10.

23

Opinion of the Court.

The provision in the Mississippi Code of 1871 as to the
place of sales on execution was as follows:
"846. All sales by any sheriff or other officer, by virtue of any execution or other process, shall be made at
the court house of the county, except when personal
property, too cumbersome to be removed, shall be levied
on, which may be sold at the place where the same may
be found, or at any other convenient place, and also,
except where cattle, hogs, sheep, or stock, other than
horses and mules, are levied on, the sale of which may
be made within the usual hours, on ten days' notice, at
the most public place in the neighborhood of the defendant."
The Supreme Court of Mississippi has decided in Koch
v. Bridges, 45 Miss. 247, and Jones v. Rogers, 85 Miss.
802, that, where land is not sold at the proper county
court house, the sale is void. In Jones v. Rogers the sale
was by a United States marshal. It was made at the
State House in Jackson. A special Act of Congress of
February 16, 1839, c. 27, 5 Stat. 317, provided that the
United States marshal for the district of Mississippi
should be authorized to sell property at the court house
in each county, but that he might, at the written request
of the defendant, change the sale to the place where the
United States court for the district was held. The court,
in the absence of any request of the defendant, held the
sale void, saying:
"Statutes fixing the place of sale of lands under executions are mandatory, and not merely directory; and it is
the imperative duty of officers to make such sales at the
very place designated, and a sale made at any other place
is not voidable merely but absolutely null and void.
The place of sale is the very essence of the sale, and
strict compliance with the statute is absolutely essential
in order to transfer a good title to realty."

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

in this view, and the absence of any specific form for a
levy in the section confirms us in it, then of course, a
certificate of shares issued to the debtor and found in the
custody of his agent or trustee is the proper subject of
levy and sale under the section. This statutory method
of treating shares of stock and certificates for them as the
same for purposes of levy and "as goods and chattels"
is not without parallel. People v. Grifenhagen,152 N. Y.
S. 679; Mitchell v. Leland Co., 246 Fed. 102; Beal v.
Carpenter,235 Fed. 273; Puget Sound National Bank v.
Mather, 60 Minn. 362.
We think the levy was valid.
Counsel for respondent criticise the recitals of the return as to a venditioni exponas and urge that neither
ground nor time enough was shown for the issue and
return of such a writ. Under the Code of Mississippi, as
elsewhere, this is a writ used to compel an officer to proceed to a sale under a fieri facias, if any of the property
taken remains in the hands of the officer unsold. The
writ is not necessary to enable the officer to proceed with
the sale unless the return day of the writ has gone by.
With this exception, it gives him no authority not previously possessed. Reference to it in the return may well
be treated as surplusage, not affecting the validity of the
proceedings, if in other respects they are regular.
The chief objection of respondent is to the place of
sale, which was at the western door of the United States
court house for the Western District of Mississippi in
the town of Oxford. Counsel for respondent contend
that, under the Mississippi statute, the place of the sale
should have been at the court house of Coahoma County
at Clarksdale, the county of the judgment debtor, and
where the certificate of stock was levied on, and that the
sale at the court house of the United States where the
judgment was entered and execution issued was void.

YAZOO & M. V. R. R. CO. v. CLARKSDALE.
10.

21

Opinion of the Court.

Taking the section as a whole, it classes bank notes,
bills, or evidences of indebtedness circulating as money,
and shares in an incorporated company together, and
makes them subject to be "taken and sold as goods and
chattels ", or to be "applied to the payment of the execution". At common law, choses in action were not subject to levy as personal property. Here the legislative
purpose appears to be to treat the written evidences of
the choses in action circulating as money as in themselves
capable of manual seizure by the execution officer, and,
in appropriate cases, of actual application as money 9n
the execution debt. The joining of shares of stock in
this section with such choses in action indicates that the
shares are to be regarded as in pari materia, and to be
dealt with, as nearly as may be, in like manner.
The elaborate and specific provision for a levy upon
corporate stock of § 3467 of the Mississippi Code of 1892,
which succeeded the Code of 1871, was, and was evidently intended to be, a departure from, and a substantial amendment of § 849 in this respect. Under the later
code, provision for levy on bank notes, bills and other
evidences of indebtedness is separated from that prescribing the levy on shares of stock. Shares of stock are
no longer dealt with expressly as "goods and chattels ".
The officers of the corporation are no longer required to
give a "certificate" of the number of shares held by the
judgment debtor to the levying officer, but are to make a
statement in writing.
The procedure provided in § 849, in our view, was mitended to furnish to the levying officer a certificate of
the shares of the defendant which the officer could manually take and offer for sale as the shares, and which when
endorsed by the officer with a record of his proceedings
and sale would work an assignment of the shares to the
purchaser " as if regularly assigned to him by defendant,"
i. e., by the usual transfer of a certificate. If we are right

20

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

such court is held, or by any such laws hereafter enacted
which may be adopted by general rules of such circuit or
district court". This section was part of an act "to
further the Administration of Justice", enacted by Congress June 1st, 1872, c. 255, 17 Stat. 196. The law of
Mississippi applicable to this subject-matter, therefore,
is the law which was in force at that date, unless the
United States Court for the Northern District of Mississippi has since adopted by general rules later state law.
We are not advised that it has done so.
In 1872, the law of Mississippi as to levies on stock of
a corporation was § 849 of the Code of 1871, as follows:
"Bank notes, bills, or evidences of debt, circulating as
money, or any shares or interest in any incorporated company, belonging to the defendant in execution, may be
taken and sold, by virtue of an execution, in the same
manner as goods and chattels, or applied to the payment
of the execution; and the clerk, cashier, or other officer
having the custody of the books of the company, shall,
upon exhibiting to him the writ of execution, be bound to
give to the officer having such writ, a certificate of the
number of shares or amount of the interest held by the
defendant in such company, and if he shall neglect or
refuse to do so, or if he shall willfully give a false certificate thereof, he shall be liable to the plaintiff for double
the amount of all damages occasioned by such neglect or
false certificate, to be recovered in an action on the case
against him. The purchaser of such share or interest, at
such sale, shall become the owner thereof, in the same
manner as if such share or interest had been regularly
assigned to him by the defendant."
We are not advised of any construction of this section
by the Supreme Court of Mississippi, and we must, therefore, treat it as a case of first impression in determining
the proper mode of levying upon shares of corporate stock
under its terms.

YAZOO & M. V. R. R. CO. v. CLARKSDALE.

19

Opinion of the Court.

10.

such order or decree, it would be best to sell it in some
other manner."
We think that the language of this act limits its application to judicial sales made under order or decree of the
court and requiring confirmation by the court for their
validity, and that it does not extend to sales under common-law executions which issue by mere praecipe of the
judgment creditor on the judgment without order of the
court, and in which the levy and sale of the marshal are
ministerial, do not need confirmation to give them effect,
and only come under judicial supervision on complaint of
either party. The sale in such a case depends for its
validity on the marshal's compliance with the requirements of law. While the Act of 1893 is not limited to
equity and admiralty cases, its passage was doubtless
chiefly prompted by the fact that they were excepted from
the conformity sections.
It is objected that petitioners can not now rely on § 916
because they did not rely on it in the courts below. Their
seventh assignment of error on appeal to the state Supreme Court complained of the refusal of the chancery
court "to hold and adjudge that whether the said Act of
Congress [i. e. the Act of 1893] of the laws of Mississippi
governed the sale under said execution, the validity veI
non of said execution was a Federal question, for that
even if the statutes of the State were applicable, the
same became Federal statutes by-adoption under Act of
Congress of June 1, 1872, U. S. Revised Statutes, Section
916 ". It seems to us that this submitted in the alternative with sufficient specification to the state Supreme
Court the question whether § 916 of the Revised Statutes
conferred validity on the marshal's sale.
Section 916 gives to the judgment creditor "similar
remedies

.

.

. by execution . .

.

as are now pro-

vided in like causes by the laws of the State in which

18

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

In applying the laws of Mississippi to the validity of
this sale, we are governed by §§ 914 and 916 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, as follows:
"See. 914. The practice, pleadings, and forms and
modes of proceeding in civil causes, other than equity
and admiralty causes, in the circuit and district courts,
shall conform, as near as may be, to the practice, pleadings, and forms and modes of proceeding existing at the
time in like causes in the courts of record of the State
within which such circuit or district courts are held, any
rule of court to the contrary notwithstanding."
"Sec. 916. The party recovering a judgment in any
common-law cause in any circuit or district court, shall
be entitled to similar remedies upon the same, by execution or otherwise, to reach the property of the judgment
debtor, as are now provided in like causes by the laws of
the State in which such court is held, or by any such laws
hereafter enacted which may be adopted by general rules
of any such circuit or district court; and such courts may,
from time to time, by general rules, adopt such State
laws as may hereafter be in force in such State in relation to remedies upon judgments, as aforesaid, by execution or otherwise."
Counsel for the petitioner also relies on the Act of
March 3, 1893, c. 225, 27 Stat. 751, which provides in its
first section "that all real estate or any interest in land
sold under any order or decree of any United States Court
shall be sold at public sale at the Court-house of the
county, parish, or city in which the property, or the
greater part thereof, is located, or upon the premises, as
the court rendering such order or decree of, sale may
direct," and in its second section "that all personal property sold under any order or decree of any Court of the
United States shall be sold as provided in the first section
of this act, unless in the opinion of the court rendering

YAZOO & M. V. R. R. CO. v. CLARKSDALE.

17

Opinion of the Court.

10.

became the highest and best bidder, at and for the price
of $100.00 and at the same time and place I executed the
writ of vende exponas issued to me in this cause and
offered for sale all the interest which the City or Town of
Clarksdale had in the Capital Stock of the Louisville,
New Orleans & Texas Railway Co. or in the Yazoo &
Mississippi Valley Railroad Company, offering said interest at the same time with said certificate of stock to
the said Pacific Improvement-for the said sum of
$100.00, that being the highest and best bid offered for
same.

"Dec. 6th, 1897.

"(Signed)

A. J. CooKE,
"U. V. Marshal."

On the back of the certificate the marshal inscribed the
following:
"Pacific Improvement Company vs. No. 3900 law.
City or town of Clarksdale, Mississippi, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Western District of the
Northern District of Mississippi by virtue of a writ of
fieri facias issued in said cause, I levied upon certificate
of stock on August 3, 1897, and thereon December 6,
1897, pursuant to said execution and to a certain writ of
venditioni exponas, I in the manner provided by law sold
this certificate of stock, all the interest of the city or town
of Clarksdale in the stock of the Louisville, New Orleans
& Texas Railway Company, to the Pacific Improvement
Company. Witness my signature this, the 6th day of
December, 1897. A. J. Cooke, United States Marshal."
Counsel for the City attack the sale chiefly on two
grounds, first that the levy was void because made on a
mere muniment or indicium of title to the stock, the certificate, and not on the stock itself; and second that the
sale was void because not made at the county court
house, as required by the laws of Mississippi.

16

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

Judicial Code as amended by Act of September 6, 1916,
c. 448, 39 Stat. 726, if the validity of an authority exercised under the United States is drawn in question and
the decision is against its validity, review is by writ of
error. If only a title claimed under an exercise of such an
authority is in dispute, then certiorari is the proper writ.
The authority of the United States marshal to make sales
upon judgments in the United States courts and to give
title thereby is not drawn in question in this ease. What
is denied here is the regularity of the marshal's attempted
exercise of his conceded authority and the validity of
the resulting title. Hence, the only way of reviewing
this cause is by certiorari. Dana v. Dana, 250 U. S. 220;
Philadelphia& Reading Coal & Iron Co. v. Gilbert, 245
U. S.162; Avery v. Popper, 179 U. S.305,314. The writ
of error is dismissed, the petition for certiorari is granted,
and we now proceed to dispose of the case on the latter
writ.
The validity of the judgment upon which the execution
issued is conceded. The questions to be decided arise on
the levy and sale. On the first day of June, 1897, a fieri
facias issued. This writ the marshal executed and made
the following return on it:
"Executed the within writ this the 13th day of Aug.
1897, by levying on and taking into my possession one
Certificate of stock, the property of said defendant in
the Louisville, New Orleans and Texas R. R. Number
147-for 250 shares, issued to the town or city of Clarksdale, Miss. Further executed on this the 6th day of Dec.
1897, at 12 o'clock meridian by selling said certificate of
stock No. 147 after due advertisement by posting notices
in three public places for the period of 10 days as provided by law, to the highest and best bidder for cash,
before the Western door of the United States Court
House, and post office building in the town of Oxford,
Miss., at which sale the Pacific Improvement Company

YAZOO & M. V. R. R. CO. v. CLARKSDALE.
10.

15

Opinion of the Court.

stock in this settlement. In 1904, the Pacific Improvement Company for $2,770.50 sold the stock to the Mississippi Valley Company, an investment company, and
transferred the certificate to that company. The value
of the stock, which was little or nothing at the time of
the judgment and the compromise, has greatly enhanced
and is averred to be $75,000.
By its bill in equity in the state chancery court, the
City sought to compel the Yazoo & Mississippi Valley
Railroad Company to recognize the City's ownership of
this stock and to issue to it stock of the consolidated company in lieu thereof, in accordance with the terms of the
merger. The Mississippi Valley Company, after the
answer to the bill revealed its ownership of the stock,
was made a defendant and the real contest became one
between the City and that company.
In the pleadings and at the hearing the City attacked
the marshal's sale as void under the statutes of Mississippi, and relied on the duty of the United States courts
under federal statutes to conform their executions and
sales to the laws of the State in which they are held.
The state chancery court declared the sale void and
granted the relief asked by the City. The state Supreme
Court affirmed the decree. No opinion was filed in either
court.
We are met by a preliminary question of jurisdiction.
The case was first brought here by a writ of error to the
state Supreme Court. Then, within due tithe, a petition
for a certiorari was also presented, and consideration of
the latter was postponed until the hearing on the writ of
error. Under which writ can the case be reviewed here?
The Mississippi Valley Company relied below, and here
insists, on a title acquired under an execution sale of a
United States marshal. This is a title claimed under an
authority of the United States. Under § 237 of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.

14

Opinion of the .Court.

257 U S.

court building is void. Koch v. Bridges, 45 Miss. 247;
Jones v. Rogers, 85 Miss. 802; Moody's Heirs v. Moeller,
72 Tex. 635; Sinclair v. Stanley, 64 Tex. 72; Smith v.
Cockrill, 6 Wall. 756; Bornemann v. Norris, 47 Fed. 438.
Where a sale is void and not merely voidable, it may
be attacked in collateral proceedings. 17 Cyc. 1286;
Harperv. Hill, 35 Miss. 63; Koch v. Bridges, supra;Jones
v. Rogers, supra;Smith v. Cockrill, supra; 2 Freeman on
Execution, 3d ed., § 289.
MR. CHIEF JusTIcE TAFT delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a controversy over the ownership of 250 shares
of the stock of the Louisville, New Orleans & Texas Railway Company, a corporation of Mississippi. The City
of Clarksdale acquired the stock in 1891, in consideration
of $25,000 of bonds issued by it to aid in the construction

of a new branch of the Railway Company in which it was
interested. The certificate for the stock, the City left in
the custody of a Clarksdale bank. The Louisville, New
Orleans & Texas -Railway Company in 1892 was merged
by consolidation in the Yazoo & Mississippi Valley Railroad Company. In 1897, the Pacific Improvement Company, a bondholder, recovered against the City in the
United States Circuit Court for the Northern District
ofj Mississippi a judgment for unpaid interest on the
bonds amounting to $3,058.13. Execution issued to the
marshal who levied on, and took possession of, the stock
certificate in the Clarksdale bank and at public sale sold
the certificate and shares to the judgment creditor for
$100, which was credited on the judgment. In 1898, the
City made a compromise with the bondholders, by which,
for payment of the principal of the bonds in cash, the
bondholders released all claim of interest and transferred
the unsatisfied judgment. No mention was made of the

YAZOO & M. V. R. R. CO. v. CLARKSDALE.
10.

13

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The rule of court need not be in writing, but may exist
in the general practice of the court. Wayman v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1; Logan v. Goodwin, 104 Fed. 409; Citizens Bank v. Farwell,56 Fed. 570.
The form of the marshal's return shows that he was
acting under the Mississippi Code of 1892, and is convincing evidence that it was the custom of the court to
use the statute in force at thedtime the officer acted.
The decisions of the state courts construing'their own
statutes are binding upon the federal court even though
it might be said that such state statutes when adopted
by the federal courts become pro hac federal statutes.
The writs and levy and sale thereunder are all void
and of no effect and subject to collateral attack.
At common law, stock in a corporation could not be
levied upon, and it is only by statutory authority that
this can now be done; the statute must be literally and
strictly followed. 17 Cyc. 944, 945; Cook, Corporations,
vol. 2, 6th ed., § 480; Jellenik v. Huron Copper Mining
Co., 177 U. S. 1; Miss. Code, 1892, § 3467.
There is a sharp difference between the real interests of
a person in a corporation and the stock certificate or
indicium of ownership of the share or interest. Section
3467, Code 1892, especially draws this distinction, and
does not provide for the sale of the stock certificate.
The distinction is plainly drawn in the Jellenik Case,
supra. See Simpson v. Jersey City Contracting Co., 165
N. Y. 193.
The Code of 1871, § 849, also makes this distinction,
for it requires that demand be made upon the company,
in which the debtor is supposed to own a share or interest, for the amount and value of said share or interest
belonging to the debtor, which provision precludes the
idea that the stock certificate itself could be sold as such.
A sale made by the marshal of the United States of
personal property or real estate in front of the federal

12

OC'O13I

TmkM, 1921.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

257 U. S.

ment creditor remedies on common-law executions "similar" to
those of the state court, an execution sale of personal property
which under the state law (Miss. Code, 1871) must be made at
the court house of the county may be made at the court house of
the United States where the judgment was entered and execution
issued. P. 22. Smith v. Cockrill, 6 Wall. 756, and/'* v. Watertown, 130 U. S. 301, distinguished.

81 So. 178, reversed.
CERTIORARI to review a judgment of the Supreme Court
of Mississippi rendered in favor of the City of Clarksdale
in a suit brought by the city to assert its ownership in
shares of stock in a railway company. The facts are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. H. D. Minor, with whom Mr. Charles N. Burch
and Mr. Blewett Lee were on the briefs, for plaintiffs in
error and petitioners.
Mr. GeraldFitzgerald,with whom Mr. Geo. F. Maynard
and Mr. W. W. Venable were on the briefs, for defendant
in error and respondent.
The writ of error should be dismissed. Jud. Code, § 237,
as amended. The federal question presented was not of
sufficient importance to warrant certiorari.
The Act of 1893, 27 Stat. 751, has no application to a
sale of property under execution in common-law cases.
Under §§ 914, 916, Rev. Stats., the only way to enforce
one's judgment in the federal court is to proceed according to state practice. Chamberlain v. Mensing, 47 Fed.
435; Ex parte Boyd, 105 U. S. 647; Perez v. Fernandez,
202 U. S. 80; Amy v. Watertown, 130 U. S. 301. Section
914 contains the significant words not contained in the
former acts,-" any rule of court to the contrary notwithstanding." See Ward v. Chamberlain,2 Black, 430. The
state rules can be varied only where necessary to enable
federal officers to function under them.

YAZOO & M. V. R. R. CO. v. CLARKSDALE.
10.

11

Syllabus.

is governed by the conformity provisions of Rev. Stats., §§ 914,
916. P. 18.
3. The provisions of the Act of March 3, 1893, e.225, 27 Stat. 751,
relative to the place of sale, apply only to judicial sales made
under order or decree and requiring confirmation by the court for
their validity. P. 18.
4. An assignment of error held sufficient to submit to the court below
the question whether a marshal's sale was valid under Rev. Stats.,
§ 916. P. 19.
5. Under Rev. Stats., § 916, giving to the party who has recovered
judgment in a federal court " similar remedies * * * by execution * * * as are now provided in like causes by the laws of
the State in which such court is held, or by any such laws hereafter
enacted which may be adopted by general rules of any such circuit
or district court," the state law applicable is that which was in
force when the act of which § 916 was a part was originally enacted,
viz, June 1, 1872, in the absence of general rules adopting later
state law. P. 19.
6. Under § 849 of the Mississippi Code of 1871, which, prior to
amendment by § 3467 of the Code of 1892, provided that shares or
interests in any corporation, as well as banknotes or evidences of
debt circulating as money, might be taken and sold under an execution in the same manner as. goods and chattels, or applied to the
payment of the execution, and required the custodian of the corporate books to give the levying officer a certificate of the number
of shares or amount of interest held by the defendant in the company, and declared that the purchaser of such shares or interest at
the execution sale should become the owner thereof in the same
manner as if such shares or interest had been regularly assigned
to him by the defendant,-a certificate of shares issued to a judgment debtor and found in the custody of his agent or trustee was
a proper subject of levy and sale. P. 20.
7. Under the laws of Mississippi, a venditioni exponas is not necessary to enable the officer to proceed with the sale of property
taken under a fieri facim of which the return day has not gone by;
and, where the return on the latter writ shows due levy and sale,
references therein to a ,venditioni exponas may be treated as
surplusage. P. 22.
8. Under Rev. Stats., § 914, which requires that proceedings in
common-law cases in the federal courts shall conform to those of
state courts " as near as may be," and § 916, which gives the judg-

10

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

diction to award such restitution. See Minneapolis, St.
Paul & Sault Ste. Marie Ry. Co. v. Merrick Co., 254 U. S.

376.
In truth the new suit, in so far as it may purport to
bear at all upon the proceedings against which maxdamus
was sought, is not within the leave reserved in the "without prejudice" provision, indeed is in the nature of a bill
of review, although leave to file such a bill was asked of
us pending appeal in the former suit and refused for reasons stated in 250 U. S. 261-262. In any aspect, neither
the pendency of the new suit, nor the granting of a restraining order therein, constitutes the least reason for
granting the rehearing asked for.
Other points are suggested, but they are without substance. The fact, if it be a fact as alleged, that the bond
given in the former suit is not sufficient in amount to
cover the aggregate overcharges collected by petitioner
pendente lite in excess of the ordinance rate, manifestly
raises no question about the jurisdiction of the District
Court to award restitution.
Rehearing denied.
YAZOO & MISSISSIPPI VALLEY RAILROAD COMPANY 2ET AL. v. CITY OF CLARKSDALE.
ERROR AND CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 15. Argued October 6, 1921.-Decided November 7, 1921.
1. A judgment of a state court denying the validity of a title
claimed under an execution sale based upon a federal court judgment, because of supposed irregularities in the marshal's attempted
exercise of his authority to sell, the authority itself not having
been drawn in question, is reviewable by certiorari and not by writ
of error, under Jud. Code, § 237, as amended. P. 15.
2. The application of state laws to a marshal's sale of property under
a common-law execution issued on praecipe from a federal court,

EX PARTE LINCOLN GAS CO.
6.

Opinion of the Court.

district judge to our order to show cause, or in the briefs
or arguments on either side.
It hardly was to be expected that the commencement
of a new suit asking for an injunction because of changed
conditions would oust the court of its jurisdiction over
proceedings ancillary to the suit theretofore terminated
and having for their purpose the bringing to a conclusion
of rights arising out of it; and it will easily be seen that
it can have no such effect.
Instead of addressing itself to the question whether the
rate ordinance was confiscatory under the conditions existing at the time of bringing the suit and likely to continue thereafter, it is largely devoted to an attack upon
the adequacy of the rate, and consequently upon the
validity of the ordinance, from and after September 23,
1915; there being specific averments and prayers as to the
period from that date to the commencement of the new
suit, with only inferential reference td the operation of
the ordinance rate thereafter.
But the former suit was terminated not upon the making of the District Court's decree of September 23, 1915,
nor upon the announcement of our decision affirming it
on June 2, 1919, but upon the going down of the mandate,
which, for reasons that do not appear, was delayed until
January 5, 1920. Until that date the ordinance was established by the decision as the lawful and exclusive measure of the rates chargeable by petitioner for gas served to
consumers, and the gauge by which its liability to make
refund for overcharges exacted during suit was to be determined. The beginning of the new suit, and the granting of a restraining order therein, can properly have effect
only with respect to the then future operation of the ordinance, and cannot affect the measure of recovery to be
applied by the District Court in awarding restitution for
the period covered by the former suit; much less its juris-

8

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

Upon the going down of the mandate the District Court
on January 6, 1920, entered an order modifying its decree
of September 23, 1915, as required, and retaining jurisdiction for the purpose of requiring the petitioner to make
refund and restitution to consumers of gas for amounts
collected over and above the legal rate pending the litigation; and against this order relief was sought through
mandamus.
In the opinion refusing a mandamus, in response to the
contention that the jurisdiction of the District Court to
require restitution did not extend to overcharges subsequent to September 23, 1915, we stated that the decree of
that date was conclusive evidence that petitioner had
failed in the attempt to prove the ordinance rate noncompensatory, and hence that it not only was lawful and
binding, but would so continue unless and until the petitioner, under the leave reserved, should begin a new suit
and maintain its contention that the rate, through
changed conditions, had become noncompensatory. It is
now urged that this was based upon the assumption that
no suit had been instituted attacking the rate since our
decision of the appeal in the main case; and petitioner
sets up, as the principal ground for asking a rehearing,
that on January 6, 1920, a new suit was brought by it in
the same court against the city and its officials for the
purpose, as stated, of taking advantage of the permission
granted in the mandate following our decision of June 2,
1919.
Petitioner exhibits a copy of its petition in the new suit,
which is in the nature of a bill in equity; also a copy of a
restraining order granted by the District Court thereon.
In our opinion refusing the mandamus we did not mention the new suit, for the very good reason that it had
not been brought to our attention; not being mentioned
either in the petition for mandamus, in the return of the

EX PARTE LINCOLN GAS CO.
6.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Robert A. Brown, Mr. Maxwell V. Beghtol, Mr.
Charles A. Frueauff and Mr. Wade H. Ellis, in supp6rt of
the petition.
MR. JusTice PrrNpY delivered the opinion of the court.
Petitioner asks a rehearing of this matter and a reconsideration of our decision of June 1, 1921, 256 U. S. 512,
by which we refused to award a mandamus requiring the
Judge of the District Court to refrain from exercising jurisdiction in the cause of Lincoln Gas & Electric Light Co.
v. City of Lincoln, et al., after our disposal of the final
decree on appeal, for the purpose of requiring restitution
to gas consumers of amounts exacted by petitioner pending the suit in excess of the maximum rates permitted by
the ordinance that was under attack therein.
We have permitted the petition for rehearing to be filed
and shall state briefly why it cannot be granted.
In our opinion in the principal case delivered June 2,
1919 (250 U. S. 256), while sustaining generally the decree of the District Court dated September 23, 1915,
which dismissed the bill of complaint, we nevertheless
said (p. 268) that the decree should be modified "so a to
permit complainant to make another application to the
courts for relief against the operation of the ordinance
hereafter, if it can show, as a result of its practical test of
the dollar rate since May 1, 1915, or upon evidence respecting values, costs of operation, and the current rates
of return upon capital as they stand at the time of bringing suit and are likely to continue thereafter, that the rate
ordinance is confiscatory in its effect under the new conditions." To that end we modified the decree so that the
dismissal of the bill as to the rate ordinance should be
" without prejudice to the commencement of a new action
to restrain the enforcement of said ordinance hereafter,"
and affirmed it as thus modified.

6

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

Arsdale, 15 Wall. 75. Redfield v. Bartels, 139 U. S. 694.
But in any event the statute supposes a suit already begun against the officer in his lifetime. We need not consider the remedies against the United States. United
States v. Emery, Bird, Thayer Realty Co., 237 U. S. 28;
Sage v. United States, 250 U. S. 33. It appears to us
plain without further discussion that both questions must
be answered: - No.
Answers to Questions 1 and 2: No.
MR. JUSTICE McKEwwA

and MR. JUSTICE; CiARKE dis-

sent.
EX PARTE IN THE MATTER OF LINCOLN GAS
& ELECTRIC LIGHT COMPANY, PETITIONER.
ON PETITION FOR REHEARING OF APPLICATION FOR WRIT OF
MANDAMUS.

No. 29, Original.

October Term, 1920.-Decided October 24, 1921.

Where a decree of the District Court, upholding as adequate a gas
rate fixed by a city ordinance, was affirmed by this court without prejudice to the bringing of a new suit to restrain enforcement
if changed conditions should make the rate confiscatory,Held: (1) That, until such new suit was begun, the ordinance was
established by the decision as the lawful and exclusive measure of
the rates chargeable by the plaintiff gas company. P. 9.
(2) That the original suit did not end until the going down of the
mandate from this court. P. 9.
(3) That a new suit filed at that time, and the granting of a restraining order therein, could affect only the then future operation
of the ordinance, and could not oust the District Court of its jurisdiction, ancillary to the former suit, to award restitution, gauged
by the ordinance rate, of overcharges exacted by the plaintiff from
its consumers during the period between the original decree of that
court and the going down of the mandate. P. 9.
(4) That the ancillary jurisdiction was independent of whether the
plaintiff's injunction bond, in the former suit, was sufficient to cover
the overcharges. P. 10.
Rehearing denied.

SMIETANKA v. INDIANA STEEL CO.
1.

Opinion of the Court.

ship. A personal execution is denied only when the certificate is given. It is true that in this instance the certificate has been made, but the intended scope of the action must be judged by its possibilities under the statutes
that deal with it. The language of the most material enactment, Rev. Stats., § 989; gives no countenance to the
plaintiff's argument. It enacts that no execution shall
issue against the collector but that the amount of the
judgment shall "be provided for and paid out of
the proper appropriation from the Treasury," when
and only when the Court certifies to either of the facts
certi.fied here, and "when a recovery is had in any suit or
proceeding against a collector or other officer of the revenue for any act done by him, or for the recovery of any
money exacted by or paid to him and by him paid into
the Treasury, in the performance of his official duty." A
recovery for acts done by the defendant is the only one
contemplated by the words "by him." The same is true
of Rev. Stats., § 771, requiring District Attorneys to defend such suits.
No different conclusion results from the Act of February 8, 1899, c. 121, 30 Stat. 822. That is a general provision that a suit by or against an "officer of the United
States in his official capacity" should not abate by reason
of his death, or the expiration of his term of office, &c.,
but that the Court upon motion within twelve months
showing the necessity for the survival of the suit to obtain a settlement of the question involved, may allow the
same to be maintained by or against his successor in office.
Whether this would apply to a suit of the present kind is
at least doubtful. Roberts v. Lowe, 236 Fed. 604, 605. In
Patton v. Brady, 184 U. S. 608, a suit against a collector
begun after the passage of this statute, it was held that it
could be revived against his executrix, which shows again
that the action is personal; as also does the fact that the
collector may be held liable for interest. Erskine v. Van

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

"2. May suit in the District Court of the United States
properly be brought and maintained against a United
States collector of internal revenue for the recovery of the
amount of a United States internal revenue tax, unlawfully assessed and collected, but in the collection and disbursement of which such collector had no agency, the entire transaction of such assessment, collection and disbursement having occurred during the incumbency of
such office of a predecessor in office of such collector?"
As the law stood before later statutes a collector was
liable personally for duties mistakenly collected, if the
person charged gave notice, at the time, of his intention to
sue, and warning not to pay over the amount to the
Treasury. Elliott v. Swartwout, 10 Pet. 137. But, after
an act of Congress had required collectors to pay o-er
such monies, it was held, against the dissent of Mr. Justice Story, that the personal liability was gone. Cary v.
Curtis, 3 How. 236. Later statutes however recognize
suits against collectors in such cases, and the plaintiff contends that they shQuld be construed to create a new statu-'
tory liability attached to the office and passing to successors, as was held in this case, the formal defendant being
saved from harm by the United States. This however is
not the language of the statutes and hardly can be reconciled with the decision of this Court in Sage v. United
States, 250 U. S. 33, and other cases to which we shall
refer.
To show that the action still is personal, as laid down
in Sage v. United States, 250 U. S. 33, 37, it would seem
to be enough to observe that when the suit is begun it
cannot be known with certainty that the judgment will be
paid out of the Treasury. That depends upon the c~rtificate of the Court in the case. It is not to be supposed
that a stranger to an unwarranted transaction is made
answerable for it; yet that might be the result of the suit
if it could be brought against a successor to the collector-

SMIETANKA v. INDIANA STEEL CO.
I.

Opinion of the Court.

In cases of this kind, the collector is merely the nominal
defendant, and it would seem immaterial whether the
suit was brought against the collector who collected the
money or his successor in office, so long as the Government has an opportunity to defend. The question before
the court is whether the United States has received
moneys which properly belong to the plaintiff.
The arguments advanced in the opinions in Roberts v.
Lowe, 236 Fed. 604; Philadelphia,H. & P. R. R. Co. v.
Lederer, 242 Fed. 492; 239 Fed. 184, are not well founded.
MR. JUSTICE HoL] Es delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit brought to recover internal revenue special excise taxes for the years 1910 and 1912, assessed
under the Act of Congress of August 5, 1909, c. 6, § 38, 36
Stat. 11, 112; and paid by the plaintiff, the defendant in
error, under duress. The taxes were collected by S. M.
Fitch, then collector of internal revenue, and it was certified by the District Court as part of its judgment that
there was probable cause for the act of the collector, that
he acted under the direction of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, and that the amounts recovered should
be provided for and paid out of the proper appropriation
from the Treasury of the United States. The defendant
is the present collector for what was Fitch's district and
was held liable by this judgment. The case was taken to
the Circuit Court of Appeals which has certified the following questions:
"1. Assuming that the declaration states a good cause
of action had the suit been brought against S. M. Fitch,
the internal revenue collector who actually collected and
received the taxes, does it state any cause of action whatever against said S. M. Fitch's successor in office, the
plaintiff in error, against whom the suit was brought, but
who had no participation in the collection, receipt or disbursement of such taxes?

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for the Indiana Steel Co.

257 U. S.

ment against Smietanka in an action to recover taxes ex.
acted by his predecessor as Collector of Internal Revenue,
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Ottinger, with whom
Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on the brief, for Smietanka.
Mr. William Beye, with whom Mr. K. K. Knapp and
Mr. R. W. Campbell were on the brief, for Indiana Steel
Company.
The action was properly brought against the collector
who was in office at the time of the commencement of the
suit. The United States has " enacted a system of corrective justice" by which the taxpayer is permitted "to
sue the Government through its collector," and if the tax
"was wrongfully exacted the courts will give him relief
by a judgment which the United States pledges herself to
pay." Cheathamv. United States, 92 U. S. 85, 88; Philadelphia v. Collector, 5 Wall. 720, 733.
The statute requiring the collector to pay the moneys
collected by him into the Treasury took away the common-law action theretofore existing, and provided only a
purely statutory remedy, which, while not in form, is in
substance against the United States. Hubbard v. Collector, 12 Wall. 1, 11, 13; Cary v. Curtis, 3 How. 236;
Philadelphiav. Collector, 5 Wall. 720, 732; Schoenfeld v.
Hendricks, 152 U. S. 691; Kinney v. Connat, 166 Fed. 720;
United States v. Frerichs, 124 U. S. 315; Kings County
Savings Institution v. Blair, 116 U. S. 200, 205; Arnson v.
Murphy, 115 U. S. 579.
The proper defendant is the collector in office at the
time suit is commenced. Armour v. Roberts, 151 Fed. 846.
The pertinent statutes are, §§ 3220, 3219, 3224, 3226,
3227, 3228, 3210, 771, 3689, 989, Rev. Stats., and Act of
February 8, 1899, c. 121, 30 Stat. 822. These "remedial
statutes should be liberally construed to accomplish the
purpose of their enactment.

CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
SMIETANKA, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE FOR THE FIRST DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS,
v. INDIANA-STEEL COMPANY.
ON CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 214. Argued October 14, 1921.-Decided October 24, 1921.
1. An action against a collector of internal revenue to recover taxes
erroneously exacted by him, is based upon his personal liability
and cannot be maintained against his successor in office who had
no part in the assessment, collection or disbursement of the taxes.
P. 4. $age v. United State&, 250 U. S. 33.
2. The statutory provisions for defence by the district attorney and
for withholding execution against the collector and paying the judgment from the Treasury where the judgment contains a certificate
of probable cause, etc., (Rev. Stats., f§ 771, 989) do not create a
new statutory liability attached to the office and passing to successors. P. 4.
3. The Act of February 8, 1899, c. 121, 30 Stat. 822, providing that
a suit against an officer of the United States in his official capacity shall not abate by reason of his death or the expiration of his
term of office but may be allowed to be maintained against his
successor, supposes a suit already begun against the officer in his
lifetime. P. 5.
CERTIFICATE from the Circuit Court of Appeals propounding questions arising upon the review of a judg-

TABLE OF STATUTES CITED.
Page

LXXVII
Page.

Washington.
South Carolina.
1915, Laws, c. 181 ...... 365
1852, Res. Dec. 15 ...... 520
Code, 1861 ............ 520 West Virginia.
1919, Acts, Ex. Sess., c.
Utah.
5 ............... 269,280
1917, Laws, c. 68... 364,365
Code 1913, § 3564 ...... 271
(C.) FoEir.N IAws.
Australia.

Great Britain-Continued.
6 Geo. 4, e. 129 ........ 358
34 and 35 Vie., c. 32, §
1, sub-see. 2 ......... 358
38 and 39 Vic., c. 86, §§
3,7 ................. 358
6 Edw. 7, c. 47, §§ 1, 2,
3................... 359
New South Wales.
1908, Industrial Disputes
Act, § 60 ............ 360
1912-1918, Industrial Ar361
bitration Act, §6
361
44-48 .......... 4 360
§§ 48D, 48E ....... 360
Zealand.
361 New1908,
Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act, §§ 53104 ............. 361
361
§
108
........... 360
361
1908, Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration
361
Amendment Act, Part
I ................... 360
1908,
Acts No. 239, Part
357
II .................. 361
357
1911, Acts, No. 33 ...... 361
358
1913, Acts, No. 7 ...... 361
357
357,
3571 Queensland.
1916, Industrial Arbitra3581
tion Act, § 65 ........ 360

Common1904-1915,
wealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act, §§ 6-9.. 360
§ 19-31 ........... 301
§ 38(e) ............ 3601

Canada.
1907, Industrial Disputes
Investigation Act,
6-7 Edw. 7, c. 20,
§§ 56, 57 ........
9-10 Edw. 7, c. 29..
1918, Industrihl Disputes
Investigation Amendments Act, 8-9 Geo. 5,
c.27 ................
1920, Industrial Disputes
Investigation Amendments Act, 10-11 Geo.
5,c.29 ..............

Criminal Code, § 501 ....
Rev. Stats., British Columbia, c. 228 ........
Great Britain.
23 Edw. 3, c. 1-8 .......
25 Edw. 3, c. 1-7 .......
34 Edw. 3, c. 9 .........
5 Eliz., c. 4 ............
1 Jac. 1, c. 6 ...........
53 Geo. 3, c. 40 .........
5 Geo. 4, c. 95 .........

iSXVI

TABLE OF STATUTES CITED.
Page.

Judicial Code-Continued.

§ 237 .................

10,

15,99, 106,282,288,
293,611,617,618,621,624
§ 238 ............ 47,62,92,
95,182,302,482,530
§ 239 ............. 238,473
(B.)

Page.

Judicial Code--Continued.

§ 240................. 004
§
§
§
§
§

241 ................. 302
250 ........... 47,62,302
250(1) ........... 47,62
265 ................. 376
266 ................. 567

STATUTES OF TIlE STATES AND TERRITORIES.

Alabama.
Code 1907, § 3910, el. 3.. 93
Arizona.
Const., 1912 ........... 341
Code 1901 (Territorial). 341
Civil Code, 1913, Tit. 6,
c. III ............... 354
par. 1456 ...... 313,331
par. 1464 ......... 312,
322,344, 354,370
Arkansas.
Constitution, 1874, Art.
VII, § 1............. 556
§ 28 ....
..... 556
1907, Act May 13, § 1.. 530
Crawford &Moses Stats.,
Tit. VII, c. 81 ....... 551
2236 ..........
553
§ 5399,5402, 5404,
5405, 5407, 54095419 ............ 551
§§ 5419, 5421, 5422,
5423, 5424, 5425,
5427 ............ 552
§§ 5432, 5437 ...... 553
California.
Code Civil Proc.,

§ 312.. 239

§ 335.. 239

340.. 242
340(3) 239
Workmen's Comp. Act.. 217,
219,239
§ 26... 220
District of Columoia.
Rev. Stats. 1874, § 1.... 48,
62,65
Illinois.
1913, Laws, p. 455 ...... 69
1913, Laws, p. 459, §§ 33,
34 ............. 66, 68, 69

Iowa.
Code Supp. 1913, Tit. X,
c.2-A ............... 121
§ 1989-a 21 ...... 119, 121
Kansas.
1920, Laws, c. 29 ....... 361
Kentucky.
Stats., 1915, § 571.. 286,296
Louisiana.
1912, Laws, Act No. 243. 534
1914, Laws, Act No. 267. 534
Minnesota.
1917, Laws, c. 493 ...... 365
Miissssippi.
1914, Laws, c. 162 (AntiGin Act)

.....

132,133

§ 846.......23
§ 849 ..... 11,20
Code 1892, § 3467 ....11,21
Hemingway's Code,1917,
§ 4752 et seq......... 133
Code 1871,

Anti-Trust Act....... 133
North Dakota.
1919, Laws, c. 222.. 478,479
Ohio.
Gen. Code, § 179 ....... 213
§ 181 ....... 216
§ 5499.. 214,215
Oklahoma.
1915, Laws, c. 164 ...... 503
Oregon.
1913, Laws, c. 112.. 470,474
§ 12 ....... 475
1915, Laws, c. 271 ..... 474
1917, Laws, c. 288 ...... 474
Philippine Islands.
1916, Act No. 2657, Feb.
24, § 1614 ........... 231
Rhode Island.
1909, Gen. Laws, c. 284,
§ 7............. 260,262

TABLE OF STATUTES CITED.

i1xxv

Page.

Page.

1920, Feb. 28, c. 91, 41 Stat.
456 (Transportation
Act) ........... 248,260,
488,563,564,578,592,598
Tit. II ................ 584
Tit. IV ............... 584
§ 416 ...... 488,564,
580,581,592,600
§ 422 .......... 563,
565,580-582,598
§ 433 .......... 587
1920, Mar. 9, c. 95, 41 Stat.
525, § 4 ...........
420,430
1920, Mar. 30, c. 111, 41 Stat.
537 ..................... 243
1920, June 5, a. 253, 41 Stat.
1015 ................ 226,231
1921, Aug. 24, c. 86, 42 Stat.
187 ............. 310,615
§5 ................... 311
Constitution. See Index at
end of volume.
Articles of Confederation.... 518
Revised Statutes.
i 161... 77,81,507,514,515
245 ............... 77,81
649 ............. 548,562
§ 700 ............. 548,562
709 .................
301
771 ................. 1,5
914 ............... 11,18

Revised Statutes-Continued.
§ 3098 ................ 513
§ 3099 ................ 513
§ 3100 ................ 514
§ 3101 ................ 514
§ 3102 ................ 514
§ 3224 ................ 376
Articles of War ........ 541,543
Art. 99 ................ 544
118 ........... 541,543
Criminal Appeals Act. 38,43,451
Criminal Code.
37 .................. 43
147 ............... 40
148 ............ 37,38,43
151 ............... 37,38
154 ................. 40
§238 ............... 47,62

916 ..............

11,18

989 ..............
1,5
§ 1230 ............ 541,543
§1342 (Articles of War). 541,
544
§ 1697 ............ 466,467
§ 1764 ................ 515
§ 1790 ................ 515
§ 2581 ................ 513
§ 2799 ..............
513
§ 2800 ................ 513
§ 2801 ................ 513
§ 2802 ................ 513
§ 2867 ................ 513
§ 2871 ................ 515
§ 2872 ............ 513,515
§ 2962 ................ 513
§ 3097 ................ 513

Interstate Commerce Acts...

90,

180,247,254,563,
564,582,587, 508
§1 .............
247,254
§ 1 (4) ............
258
§ 6
3 ...............
247, 254
258
(1)...............
113 ..............

563, 599

§ 13 (3) ...... 564, 580, 581
§ 13 (4) .............. 488,
564,578,580,581,592,600
§ 15 .................. 582
§ 15a ................. 489,
563,565,580,581,582,598
§ 16 .................. 90
§ 19a ............. 489,587
Judiciary Act, 1789 ......... 301
§25 ............... 301
Judiciary Act, 1891 ........ 302
§5 ...................
302
§6 ...................
302
Judicial Code .............. 62
§ 24 ...... 216,220,548,561
§ 28 ........

96,97,548,551

§ 29 ........... 97,547,551
37 .............. 216,220
128 ................. 604
195 ................. 537
§ 208 ............. 486,489
§ 211 ............. 485,489

LXXTv

TABLE OF STATUTES CITED.
Page.

1902, Dec. 16, c. 2, 32 Stat.
753 ..................... 515
1905, Feb. 24, c. 778, 33 Stat.
811 ................. 304,306
1906, June 29, c. 3591, 34
Stat. 584 (see Interstate
Commerce Acts).
1906, June 30, e. 3909, 34
Stat. 633 ................ 515
1906, June 30, c. 3912, 34
Stat. 636 ................ 232
1907, Mar. 2, c. 2564, 34 Stat.
1246 (see Criminal Appeals
Act).
1908, May 27, c. 200, 35 Stat.
318 .....................
525
1909, Mar. 4, c. 321, 35 Stat.
1088 (see Criminal Code).
1909, Aug. 5, c. 6, 36 Stat.
11, 112, § 38 ............
3
1910, June 18, a. 309, 36 Stat.
539 (see Interstate Commerce Acts).
1910, June 25, c. 382,36 Stat.
630 .....................
61
1911, Feb. 13, e. 46, 36 Stat.
899 ............. 506,508
§§ 1-4 ................ 510
§ 5 ................... 510
1911, Feb. 27, c. 166, 36 Stat.
933 .....................
61
1911, Mar. 3, c. 231, 36 Stat.
1087 (see Judicial Code).
1912, July 27, e. 256, 37 Stat.
240................. 245
1912, Aug. 24, c. 355, 37 Stat.
434 ..................... 74
1912, Aug. 24, c. 389, 37 Stat.
555, § 6 ...... 71,72,74,77,78
1913, Mar. 1, c. 92, 37 Stat.
587
701.................
1913, Oct. 3, . 16, 38"Stat.
114 ................. 156,
157,168, 177,180,
536,537,602-604
Par. 210 .............. 537
347 .............. 537
386 .......... 536,537
See. II ................ 604
Par. A (1), (2) ........ 604
B, D,E, G ........ 604
See. 1II, Par. N ....536,538

38 Stat.Page.
1913, Oct. 22, c.32,
208,219,220 ............. 116,
254,486,489,598
1914, Aug. 22, c. 267, 38 Stat.
703 .....................
537
1914, Sept. 26, c. 311, 38 Stat.
717 ..... 180,441,444,456
§5 ................... 444
1914, Oct. 15, c. 323, 38 Stat.
730, § 20 (Clayton Act).. 184,
201,313,340,344,370
1916, Aug. 29, c. 416, 39 Stat.
545 ............. 226,231
§11 ................
231
1916, Aug. 29, c. 418, 39 Stat.
619 (see Articles of War).
1916, Sept. 6, a. 448, 39 Stat.
726 .....................
16,
106,231,282,288,293,611,
612,614,617,618,621,624
§ 2 ................... 293,
611,617,618,621,624
§ 3 ................
612
§ 6 ................
614
1916, Sept. 7, c. 451, 39 Stat.
728, § 9 ......... 419,420,430
1916, Sept. 8, c. 463, 39 Stat.
757 ................. 603,607
1917, Mar. 3, c. 163, 39 Stat.
1106, § 1................ 515
1917, Sept. 24, c. 56, 40 Stat.
291 ......... 37,39,40,43
§6 ................... 39
1917, Oct. 3, c. 63, 40 Stat.
331 ..................... 607
1918, Mar. 21, c. 25, 40 Stat.
451 ............. 111,114
§ 10 .................. 114
1918, Sept. 24, c.176,40 Stat.
966 .......... 37,39,43
§2 ................ .39
1919, Oct. 28, c. 83, 41 Stat.
305 (Prohibition Act).491,
493,499
Tit. II, § 3 ....... 492,494
25 ...... 492,495
33.
492,495
n 37.-492,496
Tit. II,
6....... 492,497
1920, Feb. 7, c. 61, 41 Stat.
402 ................. 506,508

TABLE OF STATUTES
Cited In Opinions.
(A.)

STATUTES OF THE UNITED STATES.
Page.

1789, Sept. 24, c. 20, 1 Stat.
73 (see Judiciary Act).
1799, Mar. 2, c. 22, 1 Stat.
627 .....................
1828, May 19, c. 68, 4 Stat.
278 .....................
1839, Feb. 16, c. 27, 5 Stat.
317 .....................
1865, Mar. 3, c. 79, 13 Stat.
489 .....................
1866, July 13, c. 176, 14 Stat.
92 ......................
1866, July 27, c. 278, 14 Stat.
292 .................

513
25
23
545
545

:Page.
647, 26 Stat.
1890, July 2, c.
209 (Sherman Act) .. 377,
391,412,413,
441,451,457,593
§ ................... 399
1890, Sept. 29, c. 1040, 26
Stat. 496 ................ 461
1891, Mar. 3, a. 517, 26 Stat.
826 (see Judiciary Act).
1891, Mar. 3, c.559, 26 Stat.

1093 ................ 148, 55

1891, Mar. 3, c. 56i, 26 Stat.
1095 ............ 147,149
460
§§ 18-21 .......... 147, 149
§3 ...................
41
§6 ...................
465 1893, Mar. 3, c. 225, 27 Stat.
§ 18 .................. 461
751 ............... 11,18
1867, Feb. 5, c. 28, 14 Stat.
........ 25
385, § 2 .................
19,June 5, c. 92, 28 Stat.
301
1867, Mar. 2, c. 154, 14 Stat.
85 ...................... 515
430 ..................... 545 1894, Aug. 13, c. 280, 28 Stat.
1872, June 1, c. 255, 17 Stat.
278 ................. 304,306
196 ...................
11,20 1896, May 14, c. 179, 29 Stat.
1873, Mar. 3, c. 240, 17 Stat.
120 ................. 147,152
579 .....................
515 1898, May 11, c.292, 30 Stat.
1875, Mar. 3, c. 137, 18 Stat.
404 ............. 148, 149
§2 ................... 152
470 ..................... 221
1878, May 17, e. 107, 20 Stat.
1898, June 13, c. 448, 30 Stat.
62, § 2 ..............
448, § 29 ................ 244
125,129
1879, Mar. 3, c. 196, 20 Stat.
1898, Dec. 21, c. 36, 30 Stat.
481 ................
770..................... 467
48,64
1882, May 4, c. 116, 22 Stat.
1899, Feb. 8, c. 121, 30 Stat.
54 ..................
822 .................1,5
125,128
1884, June 26, c. 121, 23 Stat.
1900, May 31, c.600, 31 Stat.
53, § 25 .............
513,515
249.................515
1885, Mar. 3, c. 355, 23 Stat.
1901, Feb. 15, c. 372, 31 Stat.
443 .....................
790 ................. 147, 151
302
1887, Feb. 4, c. 104, 24 Stat.
1902, June 27, c. 1160, 32
379 (see Interstate ComStat. 406 ........ 244,245
merce Acts).
§ 3 ................... 245
LXXIII

.84§1

LXXII

TABLE OF CASES CITED.
Page

Page.

Wetmore v. Rymer, 169 U. S.
115
221
White Mountain Freezer Co.
v. Murphy, 78 N. H. 398 365
Wilkins v. Diven, 106 Kans.
283
375
Williams v. Fears, 179 U. S.
270
137
Williams v. Talladega, 226 U.
S.404
505
Wilmington Star Min. Co. v.
Fulton, 205 U. S. 60
356
Wilson v. Hey, 232 Ill. 389
328,364
Wilson v. Hinton, 63 Ark.
145
553
Wilson v. Shaw, 204 U. S.
24
590
Wisconsin v. Phila. & Read.
Coal Co., 241 U. S. 329
532
Wisconsin Passenger Fares,
59 I. C. C. 391
565

Wisconsin R. R. Comm. v.
Chicago, Burl. & Q. R. R.,
257 U. S. 563
592,600-602
Wisconsin Rate Case, 257 U.
S. 563
592,600-602
Wood v. Carpenter, 101 U.
5. 135
264
Workman v. New York City,
179 U. S. 552
421,434, 439
Yankee Blade, The, 19 How.
82
436
Yazoo & M. V. R. R. v.
Clarksdale, 81 So. 178
12
Yazoo & M. V. R. R. v. Jackson Vinegar Co., 226 U. S.
217
289,356
Yazoo & M. V. R. R. v. Mullins, 249 U. S. 531
300
Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U.
S. 356
333
Young Mechanic, The, 2 Curtis,404
436

TABLE OF CASES CITED.
Page.

Page.

United States v. Reading Co.,
623
253 U. S. 26
United States v. Realty Co.,
527
163 U. S. 427
United States v. Rockefeller,
177
274 Fed. 952
United States v. Repentigny,
155
5 Wall. 211
United States v. Sacks, 257
43,46
U. S. 37
United States v. San Jacinto
155
Tin Co., 125 U. S. 273
United States v. Schrader's
452,458
Son, 252 U. S. 85
United States v. Snellenburg
539
& Co., 9 Cust. App. 59
United States v. Union Pac.
R. R., 226 U. S. 61
400
United States v. United Shoe
Machinery Co., 247 U. S.
32
419
United States v. United
States Steel Corp., 251
419
U. S. 417
United States v. Utah, Nevada & Cal. Stage Co., 199
U. S. 414
125,128
United States v. Welles, 256
Fed. 545
306
United States v. Wickersham,
201 U. S. 390
71,75,80
United States Glue Co. v.
Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321 504
University v. People, 99 U. S.
309
558
Unlawful Rates & Practices,
7 1. C. C. 240
257
Upshur County v. Rich, 135
U. S. 467
558-560
Utah Power & Light Co. v.
United States, 243 U. S.
389
147,152,154
Uterhart v. United States,
240 U. S. 598
247
Valentine v. Hyde [1919] 2
Ch. 129
359
Vanderbilt, Matter of, 4
Johns Ch. 57
367
Vanderbilt v. Eidinan, 196
U. S. 480
247

Vegelabn v. Guntner, 167
Mass. 92
205,349,363,365
Vicksburg, Shreveport & Pac.
R. R. v. Dennis, 116 U. S.

665
301
Vulcan Iron Works v. Winnepeg Lodge, 21 Man. 473
361
Wagner v. Baltimore, 239 U.
8.207
'123
Walker v. Cronin, 107 Mass.
555
210
Walker v. Daixnwood, 80 Ala.
245
375
Walker v. Sauvinet, 92 U. S.
90
374
Wallace v. Hines, 253 U. S.
66
479,481,482,484
Wallace v. Lincoln Savings
Bank, 89 Tenn. 630
265
Wallace v. United States, 55
Ct. Clms. 396
542
Walsby v. Anley, 3 E. & E.
516
358
Wapponocca Outing Club v.
Road Improvement Dist.,
135 Ark.196
552
Waring v. Clarke, 5 How.
441
476
Watkins v. North American
Land Co., 106 La. 621 534,535
Webb v. Cooks, etc. Union,
205 S. W. 465
364,365
Weber v. Pennsylvania R. R.,
263 Fed. 945
86,91
Wecker v. National Enameling Co., 204 U. S. 176 96,97,99
Weighing of Freight by Carrier, 28 I. C. C. 7
117
Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S.
275
291
Western Fuel Co. v. Garcia,
257 U. S. 233
476,477
Western Union Tel. Co. v.
Commercial Milling Co.,
218 U. S. 406
356
Western Union Tel. Co. v.
Foster, 247 U. S. 105
281
Western Union Tel. Co. v.
Kansas, 216 U. S. 1135,289,291
Weston v. Charleston, 2 Pet.
449
56

LXX

TABLE OF CASES CITED.
Page.

Page.

Tinsley v. Anderson, 171 U.
United States v. Colgate &
S. 101
367
Co., 250 U. S. 300
451,452,
Toop v. Ulysses Land Co.,
454,458
237 U. S. 580
536, United States v. Congress
611,617,619,622-624
Cnstr. Co., 222 U. S. 199 307
Transit
v. Cress, 243
340 Case, The, 24 . C. C. 257 United
.. States
114
Treat v. White, 181 U.
606
264
Trades
Tri-City Central
Council v. American Steel
Foundries, 238 Fed. 728
186, 195
Truax v. Bisbee Local No.
380, 19 Ariz. 379
328,
346, 370,371
Truax v. Corrigan, 257 U. S.
312
485
Truax v. Corrigan, 20 Ariz.
7
314,346,370
Truax v. Raich, 239 U. 5. 33 339
Tucker v. Alexandroff, 183
U. S. 424
436
Tullis v. Lake Erie & W.R.
R., 175 U. S. 348
356
Union Bridge Co. v. United
States, 204 U. S. 364
601
Union Fish Co. v. Erickson,
248 U. S. 308
241,
470,476,477
Union Land Stock Co. v.
United States, 257 Fed.
635
155
Union Pac. R. R. v. Public
Service Comm., 248 U. S.
67
300
Union Pac. R. R. v. Ruef,
120 Fed. 102
206
Union Refrigerator Transit
Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S.
194
109
Union Tank Line Co. v.
Wright, 249 U. S. 275
300
United Fuel Gas Co. v. Hallanan, 257 U. S. 277
266,
290,292,300
United Fuel Gas Co. v. Hallanan, 87 W. Va. 396
277
United States v. American
Column & Lumber Co., 263
Fed. 147
377
United States v. Beatty, 232
U. S. 463
623

U.S. 316
148
United States v. Dearberg
Bros., 135 Fed. 245; 143 id.
539
472
United States v. Emery, Bird,
Thayer Co., 237 U. S. 28
6
United States v. Fidelity
Trust Co., 222 U. S. 158 245
United States v. Field, 255
U.S. 257
606, 607
United States ex Tel. Champion Lumber Co. v. Fisher,
227 U. S. 445
302
United States v. Garlinger,
169 U. S. 316
515
United States v. George, 228
U.S. 14
514
United States v. Grimaud,
220 U. S. 506
46
United States v. Heinszen &
Co., 206 U. S. 370
226,232
United States v. Jahn, 155
U. S. 109
97
United States v. Jones, 236
U. S. 106
245
United States v. Kern River
Co., 264 Fed. 412
148,151
United States v. Knight Co.,
156 U. S. 1
136,291
United States v. Kralf, 174
U. S. 385
623
United States ex rel. Arant v.
Lane, 249 U. S. 367
76
United States v. Louisiana,
123 U. S. 32
491
United States v. Lynah, 188
U. S. 445
139,145,146
United States v. Lynch, 137
U. S. 280
303
United States ex rel. Foreman v. Meyer, 227 U. S.
452
302
United States v. Phellis, 257
U. S. 156
177,183,184
United States v. Reading Co.,
226 U. S. 324
281,292

TABLE OF CASES CITED.
Page.

Southern Pac. Co. v. Lowe,
168
247 U. S. 330
Southern Pac. Co. v. Schuyler,
325
227 U. S.-601
Southern Pac. Co. v. Stew613
art, 245 U. S. 359
Southern Pac. Ry., 46 L. D.
463,464
279
Southern Pac. R. R. v. Lane,
49 App. D. C. 241; 263
460,462
Fed. 637
Southern Ry. v. Greene, 216
337,339
U. S. 400
Southern Ry. v. United
589
States, 222 U. S. 20
Sparhawk v. Yerkes, 142 U.
108
S.1
Spencer v. Merchant, 125 U.
123
S. 345
Spiller v. Atchison, T. & S. F.
116
Ry., 253 U. S. 117
Spokane & B. C. Ry. v.
Washington & Gt. No. Ry.,
155
219 U. S. 166
Spreckels Sugar Refg. Co. v.
516
McClain, 192 U. S. 397
Springfield Gas & Elec. Co.
v. Springfield, 292 Il. 236 66
Springhead Spinning Co. v.
366
Riley, L. R. 6 Eq. 551
State v. Chouteau County
367
Court, 51 Mont. 337
State ex rel. McNeal v. Dom484
baugh, 20 Oh. St. 167
State v. Erickson, 66 Wash.
367
639
State v. Gillespie, 81 Okla.
501
103
State v. Glidden, 55 Conn.
363,364
46
State v. Howat, 107 Kans.
361
423; 109 id. 376
State v. Van Pelt, 13( N. Car.
362
633
Steffes

v.

Motion

Picture

Union, 136 Minn. 200 364,365
Steinmetz v. Allen, 192 U. S.
303
543
Stephens v. Ohio State Tele206
phone Co., 240 Fed. 759
Stone v. South Carolina, 117
97
U. S. 430

LXrX
Page.

Stoner v. Robert, 43 Wash.
364,365
L. R. 437
Street v. Lincoln Safe Deposit
492,
Co., 254 U. S. 88
494,497,499
Stuart v. Maxwell, 16 How.
540
150
Stutsman County, In re, 88
561,562
Fed. 337
Substitution of Tonnage at
Transit Points, 18 I. C. C.
257
280
Sugarman v. United States,
296,611,614
249 U. S. 182
Sweitzer, Ex parte, 13 Old.
364,365,372
Cr. 154
Swift & Co. v. United States,
292
196 U. S. 375
Taff Vale Ry. v. Amalgamated Society Ry. Serv358
ants, [1901] A. C. 426
Tampico, The, 16 Fed. 491 440
Tap Line Cases, 234 U. S. 1 116
Tap Line Case, 23 I. C. C.
277, 549; 31 id. 490; 34 id.
115
116
Taylor v. Taft, 203 U. S.
303
461
Taylor v. Wallace, 143 Ark.
551
67
Telephone Cases, 126 U. S.
1
34
Tempel v. United States, 248
146
U. S. 121
Temperton v. Russell [1893],
358
1 Q. B. 715
Texas Portland Cement Co.
v. McCord, 233 U. S. 157 307
Thacker Coal Co. v. Burke,
210
59 W. Va. 253
Thames Towboat Co. v.
"Francis McDonald," 254
476
U. S. 242
Thomas v. Gay, 169 U. S.
506
264
Thompson Nay. Co. v. Chi440
cago, 79 Fed. 984
Thomsen v. Cayser, 243 U. S.
418
66
Three States Buggy Co. v.
Commonwealth, 105 S. W.
297
971

LXVIII

TABLE OF CASES CITED.
Page.

Page.

St. Anthony Church v. Pennsylvania R. R., 237 U. S.
575
615,620
St. Germain v. Bakery &
Confectionery
Workers'
Union, 97 Wash. 282 205,349
St. Louis v. Gloner, 210 Mo.
502
365, 372
St. Louis, I. Mt. & St. P. Ry.
v. Paul, 173 U. S. 404
356
St. Louis, I. Mt. & So. Ry. v.
Wynne, 224 U. S. 354
289
St. Louis & S. F. Ry. v.
Mathews, 165 U. S. 1
356
St. Louis & S. F. Ry. v. Public Service Comm., 254 U.
S. 535
300
St. Louis, S. F. & Tex. Ry. v.
Seale, 229 U. S. 156
299
St. Louis S. W. Ry. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350
109
St. Louis S. W. Ry. v. Commissioners, Road Imp.
Dist., 265 Fed. 524
548
St. Louis, S. W. Ry. v.
United States, 245 U. S.
136
259
Schell's Executors v. Fauch6,
138 U. S. 562
539,540
Schlosser v. Hemphill, 198
U. S. 173
622
Scoric v. United States, 217
Fed. 871
367
Scottish Co-operative Society
v. Glasgow Fleshers, 35
Scottish L. R. 645
358
Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U.
S. 141
601
Seaboard Air Line Ry. v.
Seegers, 207 U. S. 73
356
Searl v. School Dist. No. 2,
124 U. S. 197
555,562
Second Employers' Liability
Cases, 223 U. S. 1
313.
338,348,353,356, 589
Security Mutual Life Ins. Co.
v. Prewitt, 202 U. S. 246 529,
532,533
Seubert v. Reiff, 164 N. Y.
S.522
364
Shaffer v. Carter, 252 U. S.
504,505
87

Sheffield Furnace Co. v.
Witherow, 149 U. S. 574 561
Sherlock v. Alling, 93 U. S.
99
240,241
Sherry v. Perkins, 147 Mass.
212
328,363,366
Shreveport Case, 234 U. S.
342
563, 579,584,587-589
Shulthis v. McDougal, 225
U. S. 561
615
Siler v. Louis. & Nash. R. R.,
213 U. S. 175
482
Simon v. Southern Ry., 236
U. S. 115
216,536
Simpson v. United States, 252
U. S. 547
245
Sinclair v. Stanley, 64 Tex.
72
24
Sioux Remedy Co. v. Cope,
235 U. S. 197
291
Siren, The, 7 Wall. 152
421,
433,434,436,437,440,441
Sixaola, The (unreported)
440
Skinner v. Kitch, 10 Cox C.
C. 493; L. R. [1867] 2 Q.
B.393
358
Skinner & Eddy Corp. v.
United States, 249 U. S.
557
600
Smith v. Cockrill, 6 Wall.
756
12,25
Smith, Bell & Co. v. Rafferty,
40 Phil. Rep. 691
226
Smoot v. District of Columbia, 23 App. D. C. 266
66
Smoot v. Heyl, 227 U. S. 518 303
Snow v. United States, 118
U. S. 346
303
Snyder v. Marks, 109 U. S.
189
376
South Carolina v. Seymour,
153 U. S. 353
303
South Wales Miners' Federation v. Glamorgan Coal
Co., [1905] A. C. 239
359
Southern Pac. Co. v. Denton, 146 U. S. 202
532
Southern Pac. Co. v. Industrial Accident Comm., 251
298
U. S. 259
Southern Pac. Co. v. Jensen,
241,
244 U. S. 205
242,470,476,477

TABLE OF CASES CITED.
Page.

LXVII
Page.

Railroad Comm. v. St. Louis
Pierce v. Stablemen's Union,
S. W. Ry., 34 I. C. C. 472 579
205,
156 Cal. 70
328,339, 363-365 Rai v. Troop, 157 U. S. 386 436
Pipe Line Cases, 234 U. S.
Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis
180
548
137
Co., 240 U. S. 342
Plant v. Woods, 176 Mass.
Friendly Society of
v.
Read
211,362, 365
492
Stonemasons, [19021 2 K.
Planters' Bank v. Sharp, 6
359
B. 88, id. 732
301
How. 301
476 Redfield v. Bartels, 139 U. S.
Plymouth, The, 3 Wall. 20
6
694
Pocahontas, The (unreport440 Reetz v. Michigan, 188 U. S.
ed)
374
505
Poindexter v. Greenhow, 114
289 Regina v. Bauld, 13 Cox C. C.
U. S. 270
'ollock v. Farmers' Loan &
358
282
Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429;
Regina v. Rowlands, 2 Den.
505
158 U. S. 601
358
363
Postal Tel. Cable Co. v.
110 Rex v. McoGuire, 16 0. L. R. 361
Adams, 155 U. S. 688
522
Powers v. Ches. & Ohio Ry.,
96 Rice & Co. v. United States,
169 U. S. 92
536,537
10 Cust. App. 165
Pratt v. British Medical
Assn. [19191 1 K. B. 244 359 Rigby v. Connol, L. R. 14
358
Ch. D. 482
Prentis v. Atlantic Coast
554 Riggs v. Cincinnati Waiters,
Line, 211 U. S. 210
364,365
5 Oh. N. P. 386
Propeller Commerce, The, 1
476 Rio Grande Western Ry. v.
Black, 574
152
Stringham, 239 U. S. 44
Assurance v.
Prudential
Roanoke, The (unreported) 440
Knott, L. R. 10 Ch. App.
374 Roberts v. Lowe, 236 Fed.
142
5
604
Puget Sound Natl. Bank v.
22 Robinson v. Caldwell, 165 U.
Mather, 60 Minn. 362
97
S.359
Pullman Co. v. Kansas, 216
135 Rock Island Bridge, The, 6
U. S. 56
436
Wall. 213
Pullman's Palace Car Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18 110 Rogers v. Hennepin Co., 240
109
U. S. 184
Purvis v. United Brother328 Rogers v. Highway Improvehood, 214 Pa. St. 348
ment Dist., 139 Ark. 322 554
362,364
Root v. Anderson, 207 S. W.
Quackenbush v. United States,
364
255
547
177 U. S. 20
Rosenthal v. New York, 226
Quinn v. Leathem [1901],
350,353
U. S. 260
358
A. C. 495
Rounds v. Cloverport FounQuong Wing v. Kirkendall,
dry & Mach. Co., 237 U. S.
343
223 U. S. 59
435
303
Rafferty v. Smith, Bell & Co.,
201 Royster Guano Co. v. Vir257 U. S. 226
300
ginia, 253 U. S. 412
Railroad Comm. v. Aransas
Ryman Steamboat Line Co.
Harbor Terminal Ry., 41
v. Commonwealth, 125 Ky.
579
I. C. C. 83
297
253
Railroad Comm. v. Chicago,
Sage v. United States, 250 U.
Burl. & Q. R. R., 257 U. S.
1,4,6,245
S. 33
592, 600-602
563

LXVI

TABLE OF CASES CITED.
Page.

Oklahoma v. Atchison, T. &
S. F. Ry., 220 U. S. 277
489
Oklahoma v. Texas, 256 U. S.
603
309
Old Wayne Mutual Life Assn.
v. McDonough, 204 U. S.
8
216,536
One Pearl Chain v. United
States, 123 Fed. 371
513
Othello, The, 5 Blatchf. 343 440
Pacific R. R. Removal Cases,
115 U. S. 1
555,560,561
Page v. Edmunds, 187 U. S.
596
108
Paper Bag Patent Case, 210
U. S. 405
36
Park v. Detroit Free Press
Co., 72 Mich. 560
339
Parkinson Co. v. Building
Trades Council, 154 Cal.
581
364,371
Parsons v. United States, 167
U. S. 324
545
Patch Mfg. Co. v. Protection
Lodge, 77 Vt. 294
364
Patton v. Brady, 184 U. S.
608
5
Paving District v. Sisters of
Mercy, 86 Ark. 109
555
Pawhuska v. Pawhuska Oil
Co., 250 U. S. 394
610,
617,619
Payne v. Central Pac. Ry.,
255 U. S. 228
465
Peabody v. Eisner, 247 U. S.
347
168,175
Pearson v. Portland, 69 Me.
278
339
Peck & Co. v. Lowe, 247 U. S.
165
504
Penn Refg. Co. v. Western N.
Y. & Pa. R. R., 208 U. S.
208
259
Pennsylvania Fire Ins. Co. v.
Gold Issue Min. Co., 243
U. S. 93
216
Pennsylvania Hospital v.
Philadelphia, 245 U- S. 20 618
Pennsylvania R. R. v. Clark
Coal Co., 238 U. S. 456

Pennsylvania R. PL v. International Coal Co., 230 U.
S. 184
589
Pennsylvania . R. v. Jacoby
& Co., 242 U. S. 89 85-87,91
Pennsylvania R. . v. Public
Service Comm., 250 U. S.
566
300
Pennsylvania R. R. v. Weber,
269 Fed. 111
85, 87, 91
People v. Grifenhagen, 152
N. Y. S. 679
22
People v. Kostka, 4 N. Y.
Crim. 429
363
People v. Tefft, 3 Cow. 340 367
People v. Wilzig, 4 N. Y.
Crim. 403
363
People's Tobacco Co. v.
American Tobacco Co., 246
U. S. 79
299
Perkins v. Pendleton, 90 Me.
166
210
Pettibone v. United States,
148 U. S. 197
327
Phellis v. United States, 56
Ct. Chns. 157
157
Philadelphia, The City of, 263
Fed. 234
440
Phila. & Read. Coal & Iron
Co. v. Gilbert, 245 U. S.
162
16,299
Phila. & Read. Ry. v. Di
Donate, 256 U. S. 327
299, 613

Phila. & Read. Ry. Co. v.
Hancock, 253 U. S. 284
299
Phila. & P]ead. Ry. Co. v.
McKibbin, 243 U. S. 264 299
Phila. & Read. Ry. v. Polk,
256 U. S. 332
299
Phila. & Read. Ry. v. United
States, 240 U. S. 334
257
Phila., W. & B. R. R. v.
Phila. Towboat Co., 23
How. 209
476
Phipps v. Wisconsin Cent.
Ry., 133 Wisc. 153
339
Pickett v. Walsh, 192 Mass.
572
362
Piedmont Power & Light Co.
v. Graham, 253 U. S. 193 536,
90,292
617, 619, 622-624

TABLE OF CASES CITED.
Page.

Missouri Pac. R. R. v. Izard
County

Imp. Dist.,

143

558
Ark. 261
Mitchell v. Leland Co., 246
22
Fed. 102
Mitchell Furniture Co. v.
Selden Breck Construction
536
Co., 257 U. S. 213
Mobile, Jackson & K. C. R.
R. v. Turnipseed, 219 U. S.
356
35
Montague & Co. v. Lowry,
418
193 U. S. 38
Montana Min. Co. v. St.
Louis Min. Co., 204 U. S.
516
204
Montoya v. Gonzales, 232 U.
65
S. 375
Moody's Heirs v. Moeller, 72
24
Tex. 635
Morley Sewing Mach. Co. v.
36
Lancaster, 129 U. S. 263
Morrill v. Jones, 106 U. S.
514
466
Morris v. United States, 174
48,63
U. S. 196
Mountain

Timber

Co.

v.

Washington, 243 U. S. 219
338,353
Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S.
324
623
Mullan v. United States, 140
545
U. S. 240
Muller v. Oregon, 208 U. S.
338, 355-357
412
Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113 348
My Maryland Lodge v. Adt,
364
100 Md. 238
Myles Salt Co. v. Iberia
Drainage Dist., 239 U. S.
123
478
National Prohibition Cases,
498,619
253 U. S. 350
National Protective Assn. v.
Cumming, 170 N. Y. 315 362
Natron Soda Co. v. United
States, 54 Ct. Chis. 169;
139
55 id. 66
Nevada County v. Hicks, 50
557
Ark. 416
440
Newark, The (unreported)

LXV
Page.

New Orleans & N. E. R. R.
300
v. Scarlet, 249 U. S. 528
New York, State of, Ex
parte, No. 1, 256 U. S. 490
434,440
lRew York, State of, Ex
parte, No. 2, 256 U. S. 503
433,434,440
New York Cent. R. R. v.
136
Mohney, 252 U. S. 152
New York Cent. R. R. v.
313,
White, 243 U. S. 188
329,338,348,353
New York Cent. R. R. v.
299
Winfield, 244 U. S. 147
New York, N. H. & H. R. R.
v. New York, 165 U. S.
505
628
New York Trust Co. v. Ed177
wards, 274 Fed. 952
Nicholas v. United States,
257 U. S. 71 77,78,80,83,547
Nicholas v. United States, 53
Ct. Chms. 463; 55 id. 188 71-73
Noble v. Union River Logging R. R. Co., 147 U. S.
152
165
Noble State Bank v. Haskell,
356
219 U. S. 104
Norris v. United States, 257
71,83,547
U. S. 77
Norris v. United States, 55
77,78
Ct. Clms. 208
North Dakota Rates Fares &
Charges, 61 I. C. C. 504 488
Northern Pac. Ry., 43 L. D.
464
534
Northern Pac. Ry. v. North
325
Dakota, 236 U. S. 585
Northern Securities Co. v
United States, 193 U. S.
400
197
Northwestern Natl. Life Ins.
Co. v. Riggs, 203 U. S. 243 355
Norwalk, City of, 55 Fed. 98 241
Oahu Ry. & Land Co. v.
506
Pratt, 14 Hawaii, 126
Ohio R. R. Comm. v.Worth281
ington, 225 U. S. 101
O'Keefe v. United States, 240
117
U. S. 294

IXrV

TABLE OF CASES CITED.
Page.

McCullough v. Virginia, 172
U. S. 102
289
McElrath v. United States,
102 U. S. 426
45
McGinis v. California, 247 U.
S. 91, 95
300,301
McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U.
S. 539
356
McLean & Co. v. Denver &
Rio Grande R. R., 203 U.
S.38
303
MeLish v. Roff, 141 U. S.
661
96
MoNeal v. Dombaugh, 20 Oh.
St. 167
484
McNiel, Ex parte, 13 Wall.
236
240
Mackay v. Dillon, 4 How.
421
324
Madisonville Traction Co. v.
St. Bernard Min. Co., 196
U. S. 239
555,558,562
Magoun v. Illinois Trust &
Savgs. Bank, 170 U. S.
283
337,355
Manhattan Life Ins. Co. v.
Cohen, 234 U. S. 123
612
Manufacturers Ry. v. United
States, 246 U. S. 457 116,256
Marconi Wireless Tel. Co. v.
Simon, 227 Fed. 906; 231
id. 1021
375
Marine Ry. & Coal Co. v.
United States, 49 App. D.
C. 285; 265 Fed. 437
49
Martin v. Balt. & Ohio R. R.,
151 U.S. 673
532
Martin v. West, 222 U. S. 191 476
Marx & Hass Jeans Clothing
Co. v. Watson, 168 Mo.
133
364
Maryland v. West Virginia,
217 U. S. 1, 577
48,63
Mason City & Ft. Dodge R.
R. v. Boynton, 204 U. S.
570
558
Master Builders'. Assn. v.
Domascio, 16 Colo. App.
25
363
Mastoras v. Hildreth, 263
Fed. 571
28
Maxwell v. Dow, 176 U. S.
581
374
Mayurka, The, 2 Curtis, 72 436

Page

Meeker v. Lehigh Valley R.
R. Co., 236 U. S. 412, 434 90
Melder v. White, 28 L. D.
412
463
Merchants' Loan & Trust Co.
v. Smietanka, 255 U. S.
509
606
Merchants' Natl. Bank v.
Richmond, 256 U. S. 635 280,
300
Mergenthaler Linotype Co. v.
Davis, 251 U. S. 256
293
Mergenthaler Linotype Co. v.
Press Pub. Co., 57 Fed.
502
34
Merriam Co. v. Syndicate
Pub. Co., 237 U. S. 618 516
Metallic Roofing Co. v. Jose,
14 0. L. R. 156
362
Middleton v. Texas Power &
Light Co., 249 U. S. 152
338,350,353
Miles Medical Co. v. Park &
Sons Co., 220 U. S. 373 451,452
Miller v. American Bonding
Co., 262 Fed. 103
304,306
Miller v. Eagle Mfg. Co., 151
U. S. 186
36
Mills v. Lehigh Valley R. R.,
238 U. S. 473
90
Mills v. United States Printing Co., 99 App. Div. 605;
199 N. Y. 76
364,365
Minneapolis & St. Louis Ry.
v. Emmons, 149 U. S. 364 356
Minneapolis, St. P. & Sault
Ste. Marie Ry. v. Merrick
Co., 254 U. S. 376
10
Minnesota Iron Co. v. Kline,
199 U. S. 593
356
Minnesota Rate Cases, 230
U. S. 352
587,589,590
Missouri v. Lewis, 101 U. S.
336, 373
22
Missouri, Hans. & Tex. Ry.
v. Cade, 233 U. S. 642
353
Missouri, Kans. & Tex. Ry.
v. May, 194 U. S. 267
356
Missouri Pao. R. R. v. Ault,
256 U. S. 554
111,114,300
Missouri Pac. Ry. v. Fitzgerald, 160 U. S. 556
96

TABLE OF CASES CITED.
Page.

Lake Erie & W. R. R. v. State
Public Utilities Comm., 249
U. S. 422
300
Lake Monroe, The, 250 U. S.
246
430
Langdell, In re, 178 Mich.
305
205
Large Oil Co. v. Howard,
248 U. S. 549
504
Larkin v. Long [1915] A. C.
814
359
Lau Ow Bew v. United
States, 144 U. S. 47
621
Lauter & Suter Co. v. Hitdreth, 219 Fed. 753
34
Leathers v. Blessing, 105
476
U. S. 626
Lehigh Valley R. R. v. Public
.Service Comm., 272 Fed.
758
592
Le Roi Min. Co. v. Rossland
Miners Union, 8 B. C. 370 361
Liberty, The (unreported) 440
Lincoln Gas & Elea. Light
Co., Ex parte, 256 U. S.
512
7
Lincoln Gas & Elea. Light
Co. v. Lincoln, 250 U. S.
256
7,10
Lindsay & Co. v. Montana
Fed. of Labor, 37 Mont.
264
362,364,371
Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic
Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61
137
Linford v. Elison, 155 U. S.
503
303
Liverpool, Brazil &c. Nay.
Co. v. Brooklyn Eastern
Dist. Terminal, 251 U. S.
48
433
Local Union No. 313 v.
Stathakis, 135 Ark. 86
205
Loeber v. Schroeder, 149 U.
S. 580
106
Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S.
274
212,418
Logan v. Davis, 233 U. S. 613 154
Long v. Bricklayers Union,
17 Pa. Dist. 984
367
Looney v. Eastern Texas R.
R., 247 U. S. 214
- 579
Lottawanna, The, 21 Wall.
558
432,436

I

III

v. Oyster
Louisiana Nay. Co.
Comm., 226 U. S. 99
622
Louisiana & Pine Bluff Divs.,
40 I. C. C. 470; 53 id.
475
115,117,118
Louisiana & P. B. Ry. v.
United States, 274 Fed. 372 114
Louis. & Jeff. Ferry Co. v.
Kentucky, 188 U. S. 385 100,
108,109
Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Barber Asphalt Pay. Co., 197
U. S. 430
342
Louis. & Nash. R. . v. Garrett, 231 U. S. 298
482
Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Melton, 218 U. S. 36
356
Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Mottley, 219 U. S. 467
601
Louisville Trust Co. v. Bayer
Co., 166 Ky. 744
297
Lucke v. Clothing Cutters'
Assembly, 77 Md. 396 210,362
Luckenbach, The F. J., 267
Fed. 931
440
Ludwig v. Western Union
Tel. Co., 216 U. 5. 146
135
Luigi, The, 230 Fed. 493
440
Luxton v. North River Bridge
Co., 153 U. S. 525
590
Lynch v. Turrish, 247 U. S.
221
168
Lyon & Healy v. Piano Workers' Union, 289 Ill. 176
365
Lyons v. Wilkins [1896] 1
Ch. 811; [1899] 1 Ch. 255 358
McAllister v. Ches. & Ohio
Ry., 243 U. S. 302
96
McCarthy v. Bunker Hill &
Sullivan Min. Co., 164 Fed.
927
375
McClaine v. Rankin, 197 U.
S. 154
262
McCluskey v. Marysville &
N. Ry., 243 U. S. 36
136
McCoach v. Pratt, 236 U. S.
562
245
McCollum v. United States,
17 Ct. Clms. 92
82
McCormick -v. Local Union,
13 Ohio Cir. Ct. (N. S.)
545
364,365

LXII

TABLE OF CASES CITED.
Page.

Iowa Cent. Ry. v. Iowa, 160
U. S. 389
374
Ira M. Hedges, The, 218
U. S. 264
434,477
Ireland v. Woods, 246 U. S.
323
302
Iron Molders' Union v. Allis-Chalmers Co., 166 Fed.
45
207,365
Janney v. Buell, 55 Ala., 408 375
Jarnecke Ditch, In re, 69 Fed.
161
561
Jefferson Branch Bank v.
Skelly, 1 Black, 436
558
Jeffrey Mfg. Co. v. Blagg,
235 U. S. 571
289,350
Jenner v. Dickinson, 25 App.
D. C. 316
34
Jenners v.Doe, 9 Ind. 461

24

Jensen v. Cooks' & Waiters'
Union, 39 Wash. 531
205,
349,364
Jersey City Printing Co. v.
Cassidy, 63 N. J. Eq. 759 205
J. E. Rumbell, The, 148 U.
8.1
436
Jett Bros. Co. v.*Carrollton,
252 U. S. 1
293,
611,617,618,621,624
Jetton-Dekie Lumber Co. v.
Mather, 53 Fla. 969
362
John G. Stevens, The, 170
U. S.113
435,437
Johnson v. Maryland, 254
U. S. 51
505
Johnson v. United Rys. Co.,
227 Mo. 423
375
Johnson Lighterage Co., 231
Fed. 365
440

Co.,:Page.
Jose v. Metallic Roofing

[1908] A. C. 514
362
Kahn v. United States, 55 Ct.
Clms. 271
244
Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U.
8.46
146
Kansas City v. Public Service
Comm., 250 U. S. 652
619
Kansas City, M. & B. R. R.
v. Stiles, 242 U. S. 111
225
Kansas City So. Ry. v. Albers
Commission Co., 223 U. S.
573
324
Kansas City So. Ry. v. Anderson, 233 U. S. 325
289
Karges Furniture Co. v.
Amalgamated, etc., Union,
165 Ind. 421
365
Kawananakoa v. Polyblank,
205 U. S. 349
433
Keim v. United States, 177
U.S. 290
84
Kelley v. Rhoads, 188 U. S. 1 301
Kemp v. Division No. 241,
255 IMI. 213
362
Kenney v. Supreme Lodge,
252 U. S. 411
300
Kentucky v. Powers, 201 U.
8.1
98
Keyes v. United States, 109

U. S. 336
545
Kidd v. Alabama, 188 U. S.
730
109
Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S.
1
136,291
Kiersage, The, 2 Curtis, 421 436
King v. Journeymen Tailors,

8 Mod. 10
358
Kirst v. Street Improvement
Dist., 86 Ark. 1
554
Joint Stock Discount Co. v.
Brown, L. R. 8 Eq. 381
264 Knickerbocker Ice Co. v.
Stewart, 253 U. S.149 241, 477
Jonas Glass Co. v. Glass BotKnoxville Iron Co. v. Harbitle Blowers' Assn., 72 N. J.
son, 183 U. S. 13
356
Eq. 653; 77 id. 219
205,
W4,362 Koch v. Bridges, 45 Miss.
247
23
Jones v. Casey-Hedges Co.,
Furniture Co. v
213 Fed. 43
98 Krug
Union of Woodworkers, 5
Jones v. Rodgers, 85 Miss.
0. L. R. 463
361
802
23
La Bourgogne, The, 210 U. S.
Jones v.Van Winkle Machine
240
95
Works 131 Ga. 336
206,365
Ladd & Tilton Bank v. Hicks
Jones Natl. Bank v. Yates,
562
Co., 218 Fed. 310
240 U. S. 541
325

TABLE OF CASES CITED.
Page.

Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247
U. S. 251
136
Hammond Packing Co. v. Arkansas, 212 U. S. 322
137
Handly's Lessee v. Anthony,
5 Wheat. 374
521
Harrisburg, The, 119 U. S.
204
240,242
Harrison v. St. Louis & S. F.
R. R., 232 U. S. 318
135,-532
Hawkins v. Bleakly, 243 U.
S. 210
338,353
Hawley v. Malden, 232 U. S.
1
109
Hayes v. Missouri, 120 U. S.
68
333,351,374
Heinze v. Arthur's Executors, 144 U. S. 28
539
Hennessy v. Richardson Drug
Co., 189 U. S. 25
97
Henrici Co. v. Alexander, 198
Ill. App. 568
205
Henry v. United States, 251
245
U. S. 393
Herndon v. Chicago, R. I. &
Pac. Ry., 218 U. S. 135
532
Hildreth v. Lauer & Suter
Co., 208 Fed. 1005
34
Hildreth v. Mastoras, 253
Fed. 68
28
Hillsboro v. Public Service
Comm., 255 U. S. 562
619
Hillsdale Coal & Coke Co. v.
Pennsylvania R. R., 19 I.
C. C. 362
87
Hisko, The (unreported)
440
Hitchman Coal & Coke Co. v.
Mitchell, 245 U. S. 229
186
211,212
Hodges v. Webb [1920] 2 Ch.
70
359
Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S.
366
356
Hooper v. California, 155 U.
S.648
296
Hopkins Academy v. Dickinson, 9 Cush. 544
521
Horn v. Mitchell, 243 U. S.
247
621
Horn Silver Min. Co. v. New
York, 143 U. S. 305
137
Horstmann Co. v. United
139
States, 54 Ct. Clms. 214

Page.

Houck v. Little River Drainage Dist., 239 U. S. 254 123
Houston v. Pulitzer Pub. Co.,
249 Mo. 332
339
Houston, E. & W. Tex. Ry.
v. United States, 234 U. S.
342
563,579,584,587-589
Howard v. Gipsy Oil Co., 247
U. S. 503
504
Hull v. Burr, 234 U. S. 712 615
Hunnicutt v. Peyton, 102
U. S. 333
65
Hunt v. United States, 55
Ct. Clms. 77
125
Hunter v. Illinois Cent. R. R.,
188 Fed. 645
98
Hunter v. Pittsburgh, 207
U. S. 161
619
Hurley v. Commission of
Fisheries, 264 Fed. 116 223,225
Hurtado v. California, 110
332, 348
U. S. 516
Hyde v. Woods, 94 U. S.
523
108
Illinois Cent. R. R. v. Shee
gog, 215 U. S. 308
97
Illinois Cent. R. R. v. State
Public Utilities Comm., 245
U. S. 493
489,
490,563,579,580,587,589
Illinois Surety Co. v. Peeler,
240 U. S. 214
307
Increased Rates, 1920, 58 I.
C. C. 220 116,488,565,598,599
Indian Territory Oil Co. v.
Oklahoma, 240 U. S. 522 501,
503-505
Industrial Relations Court v.
Wolff Packing Co., 109
Kans. 629
361
Insurance Co. v. Morse, 20
Wall. 445
532
International Ry. v. Davidson, 271 Fed. 313; 273 id.
153
507,510
International Textbook Co. v.
Pigg, 217 U. S. 91
291,296
Interstate Com. Comm. v.
Diffenbaugh, 222 U. S. 42 257
Inyo Consolidated Water Co.,
37 L. D. 78
154
Iowa v. Illinois, 147 U. S.
522,531
1

TABLE OF CASES CITED.
Pag.

Page.

Field v. Clark, 143 U. S.
649
527
First Trust & Savings Bank
v. Smietanka, 268 Fed. 230
603,604
Fleitas v. Richardson, 147 U.
5. 538
561
Florence H., The, 248 Fed.
1012
440
Florida Cent. & Peninsular R.
R., 15 L. D. 529
464
Ford v. United States, 260

Fed. 657
562
Foreman v. Meyer, 227 U. S.
452
302
Fort Smith Lumber Co. v.
Arkansas, 251 U. S. 532
137
Foster v. Retail Clerks' Assn.,
78 N. Y. S. 860
364
Frank & Dugan v. Herold, 63
N. J. Eq. 443
205
Franklin Union v. People, 220
I1. 355
205
Frey & Son v. Cudahy Packing Co., 256 U. S. 208 452,458
Frisbie v. United States, 157
U. S. 166
527
Fullerton v. Texas, 196 U. S.
192
106

Gloria, The, 267 Fed. 929
440
Godchaux Co. v. Estopinal,
251 U. S. 179

293

Go!dberg, Bowen & Co. v.
Stablemen's Union, 149
Cal. 429
205,339
Gompers v. Bucks Stove &
Range Co., 221 U. S. 418 328
Gooch v. Stephenson, 1 Shepley (Me.) 371
373
Goodrich v. Ferris, 214 U. S.
71
536
Gossard v. Crosby, 132 Ia.
155
374
Gould v. Gould, 245 U. S.
151
606
Grant Constr. Co. v. St. Paul
Building Trades Council,
136 Minn. 167
362,363
Gray

v.

Building

Trades

Council, 91 Minn. 171

363,364

Gray's Harbor Co. v. Coats-

Fordney Co., 243 U. S.
251
622
Great Southern Hotel Co.,

v. Jones, 193 U. S. 532 356
Greely's Administrator v.
Burgess, 18 How. 413
540
Funkhouser v. Randolph, 287
Greene v. Louis. & InterurIll. 94
339
ban R. R., 244 U. S. 499 482
Gaines v. Fuentes, 92 U. S.
Groesbeck v. Detroit United
10
557
Ry., 257 U. S. 609
619
Gasquet v. Lapeyre, 242 U. S.
Guethler v. Altman, 26 Ind.
367
610,612
App. 587
364
Gast Realty & Inv. Co. v.
Guggenheim Smelting Co., In
Schneider Granite Co., 240
re, 112 Fed. 517
538,539
U. S. 55
123 Gulf, Colo. & S. F. Ry. v.
General Mutual Ins. Co. v.
Ellis, 165 U. S.150
336,
Sherwood, 14 How. 351
436
337,339
General Oil Co. v. Crain, 209
Gulf Oil Corporation v. LewU. S. 211
289
ellyn, 248 U. S. 71
168
Georgetown

v.

Alexandria

Guthrie v. Harkness, 199 U.

Canal Co., 12 Pet. 91
64
S. 148
263
German Natl. Bank v. SpeckHaas v. Henkel, 216 U. S.
ert, 181 U. S. 405
96,623
462
514
Gilbert v. David, 235 U. S.
Hagar v. Reclamation Dis561
221
trict, 111 U. S. 701
123
Giles v. Harris, 189 U. S.
Hahn v. Erhardt, 78 Fed.
475
374
620
538,539
Gill Engraving Co. v. Doerr,
Hake v. People, 230 Ill. 174 367
214 Fed. 111
362-364 Hamilton, The, 207 U.' S.
Glide, The, 167 U. S. 606
436
398
241,343

TABLE OF CASES CITED.

L=g
Page.

Page.

Detroit Coal Exchange v.
Michigan Central R. R., 38
I. C. C. 79
117
Detroit & Mackinac Ry. v.
Michigan R. R. Comm., 240
U.S. 564
96
Diamond Glue Co. v. United
States Glue Co., 187 U. S.
611
505
Dillon v. Gloss, 256 U. S.
368
498
Dimmick v. Del., Lack. & W.
R. R., 180 Pa. St. 468
375
Dishon v. Cincinnati, N. 0. &
Tex. Pac. Ry., 133 Fed. 471 98
District of Columbia v. Gannon, 130 U. S. 227
303
Dr. Miles Medical Co. v.
Park & Sons Co., 220 U. S.
373
451,452
Dodge v. Osborn, 240 U. S.
118
376
Dominion Hotel v. Arizona,
249 U. S. 265
355,372
Donovan v. Wells, Fargo &
Co., 169 Fed. 363
98
Dow v. Bradstreet Co., 46
Fed. 824
98
Dower v. Richards, 151 U. S.
658
324
Doyle v. Continental Ins. Co.,
94 U. S. 535
529,532,533
Drainage Dist. No. 19 v. Chicago, Mil. & St. P. Ry., 198
Fed. 253
561
Duplex Printing Press Co. v.
Deering, 254 U. S. 433
184,
186,201-203,212,327,364,589
Durkee v. Illinois Cent. R.
K., 81 Fed. 1
98
East Tennessee, Va. & Ga.
Ry. v. Interstate Com.
Comm., 181 U. S. 1
259
Eastern States Retail Lumber
Dealers' Assn. v. United
States, 234 U. S. 600 400,418
Eastern Texas R. R. v. Railroad Comm., 242 Fed. 300 579
Eberlein v. United States, 257
U. S. 82
71,77
Eberlein v. United States, 53
Ct. Cims. 466
83

Eisner v. Macomber,
U. S. 189

252
156,

168, 169,175,176

Elliott v. Swartwout, 10 Pet.
137
4
Embree v. Kansas City Road
Dist., 240 U. S. 242
123
Emerson v. Gaither, 103 Md.
564
264
Empire State-Idaho Min. Co.
v. Hanley, 205 U. S. 225 536
Empire Theatre Co. v. Cloke,
53 Mont. 183
364,365
Equitable Life Assur. Soo. v.
Brown, 187 U. S. 308 296,618
Erdman v. Mitchell, 207 Pa.
St. 79
362
Erskine v. Van Arsdale, 15
Wall. 75
5
Eureka Pipe Line Co. v.
Hallanan, 257 U. S. 265 277,
280,290,292,300
Eureka Pipe Line Co. v.
Hallanan, 87 W. Va. 396 265
Evans v. Gore, 253 U. S.
245
505
Evans v. United States, 31
App. D. C. 544
64,66
Everett Waddey Co. v.
Richmond Typographical
Union, 105 Va. 188
365
Ex parte 74, 58 I. C. C. 220 116,
488,565,598,599
Farnsworth v. Minnesota &
Pac. R. R., 92 U. S. 49
155
Farrell v. O'Brien, 199 U. S.
89
536, 611,617,619,622-624
Federal

Trade

Comm.

v.

Gratz, 253 U. S. 421
453
Ferry v. King County, 141
U. S. 668
303
F. J. Luckenbach, The, 267
Fed. 931
440
Fidelity, The, 16 Blatchf.
569
433,434
Fidelity & Columbia Trust
Co. v. Louisville, 245 U. S.
54
109
Fidelity Mutual Life Assn.
v. Mettler, 185 U. S. 308 355
Field v. Barber Asphalt Pay.
Co., 194 U. S. 618
482

LVI

TABLE OF CASES CITED.
Page.

Colorado

-

Eastern Ry.

v.

Union Pac. Ry., 34 Fed. 312 96
Colorado Midland Ry. v.
Jones, 29 Fed. 193
562
Commissioners Road Improvement Dist. No. 2 v.
St. Louis S. W. Ry. 265
Fed. 524
548
Commonwealth v. Chattanooga Imp'. & Mfg. Co.,
126 Ky. 636
297
Commonwealth v. Eclipse
Hay Press Co., 104 S. W.
224
297
Commonwealth v. Hogan,
MeMorrow & Tieke Co.,
74 S. W. 737
297
Commonwealth v. Hunt, 4
Mete. 111
362
Conger v. New York, W. S.
& B. R. R., 120 N. Y. 29 375
Connecticut Mutual Life Ins.
Co. v. Hillmon, 188 U. S.
208
308
Connolly v. Union Sewer
Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540
314,
335,339,341,343
Consolidated Turnpike Co. v.
Norfolk &c. Ry., 228 U.S.
612,618
596
Conway v. Wade, [1909]
A. C. 506
359
Cook v. United States, 55
Ct. Chms. 215
-524
Cooley v. Board of Wardens,
12 How. 299
240
Corkran Oil Co. v. Arnaudet,
199 U. S. 182
106
Corn Products Refining Co.
v. Eddy, 249 U. S. 427
289,
300,324
Cotter v. Osborne, 18 Man.
471
361
Cotting v. Kansas City Stock
Yards Co., 183 U. S. 79
339
Court of Industrial Relations
v. Wolff Packing Co., 109
Kans. 629
361
Cream of Wheat Co. v. Grand
Forks, 253 U. S. 325
109
Creole, The, 2 Wall. Jr. 485 436
Crescent Cotton Oil Co. v.
State, 121 Miss. 615
130

Page.

Crump v. Commonwealth, 84
Va. 927
Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U.
S.47
Cunningham v. Rodgers, 50
App. D. C. 51; 267 Fed.
609
Curran v. Delano, 235 Pa. St.
478
Curran v. Galen, 152 N. Y.
33

364
291
466
375
211

Curtis v. Connly, 264 Fed.

650
261
Curtis v. Metcalf, 259 Fed.
961
261
Dahnke-Walker Milling Co.
v. Bondurant, 257 U. S.
282
276,506
Dahnke-Walker Milling Co.
v. Bondurant, 185 Ky. 386
283,287
Dalrymple v. Dalrymple, 2
Hagg. Cons. 54
432
Dana v. Dana, 250 U. S. 220
16,299
Davidson v. New Orleans, 96
U.S. 97
124
Davies v. Thomas [1920] 1
Ch. 217
359
Davis, The, 10 Wall. 15
439
Davis v. American Society,
etc., 75 N. Y. 362
375
Davis v. Foreman [1894] 3
Ch. 654
374
Davis v. Mills, 194 U. S. 451 243
Delaney v. Flood, 183 N. Y.
323
375
Delaware County v. Diebold
Safe Co., 133 U. S. 473
557
Del., Lack. & W. R. R. v.
Pennsylvania, 198 U. S.
341
301
Del., Lack. & W. R. R. v.
Yurkonis, 238 U. S. 439
612
Delmas v. Insurance Co., 14
Wall. 661
558
Delta, Town of, 32 L. D. 461 153
Denny v. Bennett, 128 U. S.
489
343
Denver, N. W. & Pac. Ry. v.
Hydro-Elec. Power Co., 32
L. D. 452
153

TABLE OF CASES CITED
Page.

Butler v. Boston & Savannah
S. S. Co., 130 U. S. 557
Butterick Pub. Co. v. Typographical Union, 100 N. Y.
S.292
California v. Central Pao.
R. R. 127 U. S. 1
Cameron Furnace Co. v.
Pennsylvania Canal Co., 2
Pearson (Pa.) 208
Caminetti v. United States,
242 U. S. 470
Capital City Dairy Co. v.
Ohio, 183 U. S. 238
Carew v. Rutherford, 106
Mass. 1
Cargill Co. v. Minnesota, 180
U. S. 452

241
364
590
375
589
136
362
137

Carifio v. Insular Government, 212 U. S. 449
432
Carolinian, The, 270 Fed.
1011
431,440
Carr v. United States, 98
U. S. 433
434
Carroll v. Greenwich Ins. Co.,
199 U. S. 401
343
Carson v. Dunham, 121 U. S.
421
97
Cary v. Curtis, 3 How. 236
4
Casey v. Cincinnati Typographical Union, 45 Fed.
135
328
Casseday v. Norris, 49 Tex.
613
24
Cedar Rapids Gas Light Co.
v. Cedar Rapids, 223 U. S.
655
324
Chalker v. Birmingham & N.
W. Ry., 249 U. S. 522
300
Champion Lumber Co. v.
Fisher, 227 U. S. 445
302
Chandler v. Hanna, 73 Ala.
390
375
Chelentis v. Luckenbach S. S.
Co., 247 U. S. 372
241, 477
Cherokee Nation v. Georgia,
5 Pet. 1
615
Ches. & Ohio Ry. v. Cockrell,
232 U. S. 146
97
C4icago, In re, 64 Fed. 897
559,561
Chicago v. Dempcy, 250 U. S.
651
617

R. R.
Chicago & Alton

LVII
Page.
g.

Tranbarger, 238 U. S. 67 348
Chicago Board of Trade v.
Hammond Blev. Co., 198
U. S. 424
214
Chicago Board of Trade v.
United States, 246 U. S.
231
415
Chicago, Mil. & St. P. Ry. v.
Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418
324
Chicago & N. W. Ry. v.
Ochs, 249 U. S. 416
300
Chicago, R. I. & Pao. Ry. v.
Arkansas, 219 U. S.453
356
Chicago, R. I. & Pac. Ry. v.
Dowell, 229 U. S. 102
97
Chicago, R. I. & Pac. Ry. v.
Schwyhart, 227 U. S. 184
99
Chicot County v. Sherwood,
148 U. S. 529
557
China, The, 7 Wall. 53
436
Chipman, Ltd. v. Thomas B.
Jeffery Co., 251 U. S. 373
214-216,299
Choctaw, 0kla. & Gulf R. R.
v. Harrison, 235 U. S. 292
501,503,504
C., N. 0. & T. P. Ry. v. Clark
& Bennett, 11 Ky. Law
Rep. 286
339
Citizens Natl. Bank v. Durr,
257 U. S. 99
299
Clarage v. Luphringer, 202
Mich. 612
365
Clayton v. Utah Territory,
132 U. S. 632
303
Clement Natl. Bank v. Vermont, 231 U. S. 120
108
Cleveland, &c. Ry v. Backus,
154 U. S. 439
110
Clough v. Curtis, 134 U. S.
361
303
Coe v. Armour Fertilizer
Works, 237 U. S. 413
622
Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517
136,301,618
Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat.
264
491
Cohn & Roth Elec. Co. v.
Bricklayers Union, 92
Conn. 161
362,363,365
Coleman v. United States, 250
U. S. 30
245

TABLE OF CASES CITED.
Page.

Bailey v. Alabama, 219 U. S.
219
Baldwin Lumber Co. v.
Brotherhood of Teamsters,
91 N. J. Eq. 240
Baltic Mining Co. v. Massachusetts, 231 U. S. 68
Bait. & Ohio R. R. v. Interstate Com. Comm., 221
U. S. 612

324
365
137
589

Balt. & Potomac R. R. v.

Hopkins, 130 U. S. 210 295,303
Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S.
27
333, 334,351
Barnes & Co. v.Chicago Typographical Union, 232 Ill.
424
205,349,365
Barr v. Essex Trades Council, 53 N. J. Eq. 101
328
Barron v. Burnside, 121 U. S.
186
532
Barrow S. S. Co. v. Kane,
170 U. S. 100
532
Bayersdorfer v. United States,
7 Cust. App. 66
537
Beal v. Carpenter, 235 Fed.
273
22
Beaumont v. Prieto, 249 U. S.
554
214
Beck v. Railway Teamsters'
Union, 118 Mich. 497
205,
349,364,365
Bedford v. United States, 192
, U. S. 217
146
Beech-Nut Packing Co. v.
Federal Trade Comm., 264
Fed. 885
442,444
Berry v. Donovan, 188 Mass.
354
211
Bisbee v. Arizona Ins.
Agency, 14 Ariz. 313
375
Blake v. United States, 103
U. S.227
544,545
Bliss v. Anaconda Copper
Min. Co., 167 Fee 342
375
Bliss v. Washoe Copper Co.,
186 Fed. 789
375
Blumenstock Bros. Adv.
Agency v. Curtis Pub. Co.,
252 U. S. 436
296
Board of Trade of Chicago v.
Hammond Elev. Co., 198
U. S. 424
214

Page

Bogni v. Perotti, 224 Mass.
152
339
Bond v. Dustin, 112 U. S. 604 562
Bondurant v. Dahnke-Walker
Milling Co., 175 Ky. 774
287,297
Boom Co. v. Patterson, 98 U.
s. 403
555
Booth v. Burgess, 72 N. J.
362-364
Eq. 181
Boots v. Grundy, 82 L. T. R.
769
358
Bornemann v. Norris, 47 Fed.
26
438
Bossert v. Dhuy, 221 N. Y.
342
363-365
Boston Diatite Co. v. Florence Mfg. Co., 114 Mass.
374
69
Boyd v. Mutual Fire Assn.,
265
116 Wise. 155
Branson v. Bush, 251 U. S.
182
123
Breiholz v. Board of Supervisors, 186 Ia. 1147
119
Brennan v. United Hatters of
N. Amer., 73 N. J. L. 729 211
Bridge Proprietors v. Hoboken Co., 1 Wall. 116 289,558
Brolan v. United States, 236
614
U. S. 216
Browm v. Houston, 114 U. S.
618
622
Brown v. Maryland, 12
Wheat. 419
290
Brown v. New Jersey, 175
374
U. S. 172
Bruce v. Tobin, 245 U. S. 18 622
Buchanan v. Alexander, 4
How. 20
433
Bulcock v. St. Anne's Master
Builders' Federation, 19
T. L. R. 27
358
Bull v. Northern Pacific R.
R., 26 L. D. 693
464
Burnap v. United States, 252
81,84
U. S. 512
Burnham v. Dowd, 217 Mass.
351
362,364
Business Men's League v.
Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry.,
49 1. C. C. 713
579

TABLE OF CASES
Cited In Opinions.
Page.

Page.

age.
Amy v. Watertown, 130 U. S.
Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v.
12,26
301
United States, 175 U. S.
291,418,601 Anderson v. Durr, 20 Oh. N.
211
P. (x. s.) 538; 29 0. C. A.
Alabama & Vicksburg Ry. v.
100,106
465; 100 Oh. St. 251
Journey, 122 Miss. 742 111,113
240 Anderson v. Watt, 138 U. S.
Alaska, The, 130 U. S. 201
221
694
Alexandria Canal Co. v. Dist.
Arant v. Lane, 249 U. S. 367 76
of Columbia, I Mackey,
66 Arizona Employers' Liability
217
Cases, 250 U. S. 400
Allen v. Flood [1898] A. C.
338,353,356,372
362
1
Arkadelphia Milling Co. v.
American Bonding Co. v.
St. Louis S. W. Ry., 249
United States, 233 Fed.
136,350
U. S. 134
305
364
Arkansas v. Tennessee, *246
American Creosoting Co. v.
522
U. S. 158
Director General, 61 L C.
254 Arthur v. Dodge, 101 U. S.
C. 145
540
34
American Engineering Co. v.
Arthur v. Fox, 108 U. S. 125 540
Moulders
International
365 Arthur v. Morgan, 112 U. S.
Union, 25 Pa. Dist. 564
540
495
American Express Co. v.
Caldwell, 244 U. S. 617 580 Arthur v. Oakes, 63 Fed. 310 374
Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. v.
American Express Co. v.
206,365
Gee, 139 Fed. 582
290
Iowa, 196 U. S. 133
Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. v.
American Federation of La339
Vosburg, 238 U. S. 56
bor v.Buck's Stove &Range
364 Athol, The, 1 Win. Rob. 374 434
Co., 33 App. D. C. 83
Atkin v. Kansas, 191 U. S.
American Security & Trust
356
207
Co. v. District of Colum47,63 Atlantic & Pacific R. R. v.
bia, 224 U. S. 491
155
Mingus, 165 U. S. 413
American Steamboat Co. v.
240,241 Atlantic Transport Co. v. ImChase, 16 Wall. 531
476
brovek, 234 U. S. 52
American Steel Foundries v.
Attualita, The, 238 Fed. 909 440
Tri-City Central Trades
Auburn Draying Co. v.
Council, 257 U. S. 184
Wardell, 227 N. Y. 1 363,364
313,340,362,365,371
Avery v. Popper, 179 U. S.
American Steel & Wire Co. v.
16
305
Speed, 192 U. S. 500 290,618
Baash v. Cooks Union, 99
American Sugar Refg. Co. v.
365
137
Wash. 378
Louisiana, 179 U. S. 89
Bacon v. Illinois, 227 U. S.
Ames v. Kansas, 111 U. S.
618
504
491
449

TABLE OF CASES REPORTED.

LM
Pam

649
Wilson v. United States .........................
Wineman v. Anderson-Tully Co ..................
647
Wisconsin R. R. Comm. v. Chicago, Burlington &
Quincy R. R ...............................
563
Wood, Trustee, United States Shipping Board Emergency Fleet Corporation v ....................
627
Woodrow-Parker Co. v. Herschberger .............. 661
Wy Sheung, Chan, v. United States ....... 629,652,654
Yamashita v. Hinkle, Secy. of State, Washington... 628
Yazoo & Mississippi Valley R. R. v. City of Clarksdale .......................................
10
Zelnicker Supply Co., Dermott Land & Lumber
Co.v ......................................
648
Zerbst, Warden, Pace v.....................
669
Zucht v. King ..................................
650

TABLE OF CASES REPORTED.
Page,

Wallace, Davis, Director General, v ............... 478
Wallace, Secy. of Agriculture, Hill v ...........
310, 615
Wallace v. United States ........................
541
Walter A. Zelnicker Supply Co., Dermott Land &
Lumber Co. v ..............................
648
Ward v. State of Illinois ex rel. Chicago Bar Assn .... 666
Ward v. State of Washington .....................
612
Wardell, Collector of Internal Revenue, Regal Drug
Corporation v ..............................
625
Warner, Ex parte...............................
614
Washington, State of, Ward v ....................
612
Watkins, Trustee, v. Sedberry ....................
633
Watts v. State of Arizona ex rel. Burgoon, Treasurer. 617
Weber, Surviving Partner, Pennsylvania R. R. v ....
85
Weitzel v. United States .........................
644
West Braddock Bridge Co., Kelley v ...............
641
West Lumber Co., Goodrich v ....................
610
West Virginia, State of, State of Ohio v ...........
620
West Virginia, State of, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v .....................................
620
Western Fuel Co. v. Garcis, Admr .................
233
Western Maid, The .............................
419
Westfield, Town of, Public Service Elec. Co. v ...... 669
Weyerhaeuser Timber Co., Muck v ................
645
Wheeler Syndicate, Inc., Star Co. v ...............
654
White, Jackson, Receiver, v ......................
659
White, Commr. of Immigration, Pang Ring v ......
639
Widenmann, United States ex rel., v. Hughes, Secy.
of State ....................................
619
Widrevitz, Admx., Crittenden v ...................
636
Wilhelmsen, Barber & Co. v ......................
655
William S. Merrell Chemical Co., Upjohn Co. v .... 638
Williams, Louisiana Ry. & Nay. Co. v .............
610
Williams, Mexico North Western Ry. v ............
644
Williams, Trustee, v. National Discount Co ........
635
Wilson v. McDonnell ...........................
665
Wilson v. Republic Iron & Steel Co ................
92

TABLE OF CASES REPORTED.
Page.

United States ex rel. Brown-Ketcham Iron Works,
Robinson v ................................
United States, Rockefeller v .....................
United States, Rose v .........................
United States, Rowan v .........................
United States v. Sacks ...........................
United States, Savage v .........................
United States v. Schoyen, Admr ..................
United States, Schurmann v .....................
United States, Smith v ..........................
United States, Vincenti v ........................
United States v. Volk, Trustee ...................
United States, Wallace v ....... * ................
United States, Weitzel v .........................
United States, Wilson v .........................
United States Rubber Reclaiming Works v. Philadelphia Rubber Works Co ......................
United States Shipping Board Emergency Fleet Corporation v. Wood, Trustee ....... : ...........
Upjohn Co. v. Merrell Chemical Co ...............

664
176
655
660
37
642
667
621
667
634
667
541
644
649
660
627
638

Vandenburg, Concrete Steel Co. v .................
632
Van Zant, Kansas City Southern Ry. v ............ 627
Verde Water & Power Co. v. Salt River Valley Water:
Users' Assn ...............
: ................
643
Vincenti v. United States ........................
634
Virginia Commission of Fisheries, Hurley v ........ 223
Virginia Ry. & Power Co. v. Bankers Trust Co., Exr. 649
Virginia Ry. & Power Co. v. O'Connor ............. 649
Visayan Refining Co., Rafferty, Collector of Internal
Revenue, v .................................
226
Volk, Trustee, United .States v ...................
667
Wabash
Wabash
Wabash
Walker,

Ry. v. Elliott ...........................
Ry. v. Koenig ..........................
Ry. v. Stewart ..........................
Kissel Motor Car Co. v ..................

632
660
641
634

L

TABLE OF CASES REPORTED.
Page&

United States, Ebetlein v .....................
United States, Elwell v .......................
United States, Embry v .......................
United States, Grayson v ......................
United States, Grogan v .........................
United States, Leopold Harris v ...................
United States, P. H. Harris v .....................
United States, Henry v ........................
United States, Horstmann Co. v ..................
United States ex rel. Widenmann v. Hughes, Secy.
of State ...................................
United States, Hunt, Exr. v ......................
United States, Hunter v .........................
United States v. Janowitz ........................
United States, Kahn et al., Exrs., v ................
United States, Katz v ...........................
United States, Kern River Co. v ..................
United States v. Keystone Watch Case Co. (2 cases).
United States, Lauria v ..........................
United States, Lefkowitz v .......................
United States v. Loucks ..........................
United States, Louisiana & Pine Bluff Ry. v ........
United States, Lowenthal v ......................
United States, McKelvey v ......................
United States, Maresca v ........................
United States, Marine Ry. & Coal Co. v ...........
United States, Matthey v ........................
United States, Moorehead v .....................
United States v. Moreland .......................
United States, Natron Soda Co. v .................
United States et al., State of New York v ..........
United States, Nicholas v ........................
United States, Norris v ..........................
United States v. Phellis ..........................
United States, Prioleau v ........................
United States, Prosser v .........................
United States v. Rice & Co .......................

82
647
655
637
656
646
623
640
138
619
125
633
42
244
641
147
664
635
637
630
114
644
625
657
47
658
643
631
138
591
71
77
156
633
622
536

TABLE OF CASES REPORTED.

XLIX
Page,

Toledo Scale Co. v. Computing Scale Co.......... 657
628,651,653
Tolo v. Steamship Hannah Neilson ........
Townley v. State of Minnesota................ 643
Traylor Engineering & Mfg. Co. v. Lederer, Collector. 638
Tri-City Central Trades Council, American Steel
184
Foundries v ................................
312
Truax et al., Copartners, v. Corrigan ...............
Tulsidas, Dharandas, v. Insular Collector of Customs. 624
Twin Falls-Oakley Land & Water Co., Martens v.. 637
T. W. Jenkins & Co., Anaheim Sugar Co. v ........ 659
661
Union Pacific R. R. v. Perrin, Admx ..............
624
Union Traction Co., Harvey v ....................
United Fuel Gas Co. v. Hallanan, State Tax Commr. 277
United States, Owner of The Carolinian, Ex parte... 419
United States, Owner of The Liberty, Ex parte..... 419
United States, Owner of The Western Maid, Ex parte. 419
United States, Intervener, State of Oklahoma v.
308, 609, 611, 616, 621
State of Texas ..............
United States, American Column & Lumber Co. v.. 377
647
United States, Anderson v .......................
656
United States, Billingsley v. (2 cases) .............
667
United States, Bowles v .........................
614
United States, Boylan v .........................
653
United States, Byron v ..........................
666
United States v. Caster ..........................
United States, Central Railroad Co. of New Jersey v. 247
United States, Chan Wy Sheung v ........ 629,652,654
657
United States, Cohen v ..........................
United States ex rel. Mecartney v. Colby, Secy. of
619
State ......................................
622
United States, Continental Ins. Co. v ..............
523
United States v. Cook, Exr .......................
646
United States, Dierkes v .........................
628,652,654
United States, Doo Fook v ...............
650
United States, Dubman v .......................

x

.vm

TABLE OF CASES REPORTED.
Page.

Standard Warehouse & Compress Co., McFadden
Bros. Agency v .............................
Star Co. v. Fisher ...............................
Star Co. v. Wheeler Syndicate, Inc................
State Industrial Comm., Davis, Director General, v..
State Industrial Comm. of New York v. Nordenholt
Corporation ................................
Steinke, Great Northern Ry. v ...................
Sternberger v. Continental Mines, Power & Reduction Co ....................................
Stevens v. Arnold et al., Exrs .....................
Stevens, Payne, Director General, v ...............
Stewart, Wabash Ry. v ..........................
Stone, Chief of Police, Crookshank v ..............
Strahan v. Hanvey ..............................
Strick Line, Ltd., v. Suna, Master .................
Studebaker Corporation v. Gear Grinding Machine
Co ........................................
Sullinger, U. S. Attorney, Cole v ..................
Suna, Master, Strick Line, Ltd., v ................
Swift & Co., State of Ohio ex rel. Seney, Prosecuting
Attorney, v ................................

643
654
654
642
631
629
617
631
642
641
664
668
638
653
663
638
633

Takuji Yamashita v. Hinkle, Secy. of State, Washington .......................................
628
Tennessee, Alabama & Georgia R. R. v. Drake ..... 612
Terral, Secy. of State, Arkansas, v. Burke Constr. Co. 529
Texas, State of, State of Oklahoma v .............. 308,
609, 611, 616, 621
Texas, State of, Texas-Cherokees and Associate
Bands v
.....................
........
615
Texas-Cherokees and Associate Bands v. State of
Texas .....................................
615
Texas Ranger Producing &Refg. Co. v. Robinson... 646
657
Thompson, Bulk Oil Transports v ................
Tilton v. Drennen, Receiver ..............
631, 651, 657
Title Guarantee & Trust Co., Trustee, City of New
York v ....................................
654

TABLE OF CASES REPORTED.

XLVIH
Page

Sedberry, Watkins, Trustee, v ....................
633
Seiffert, Jones v .................................
618
Selden Breck Constr. Co., Robert Mitchell Furniture
Co. v ......................................
213
Seney, Prosecuting Attorney, State of Ohio ex rel., v.
Swift &Co .................................
633
Sheung, Chan Wy, v. United States ....... 629,652,654
Shosen Kaisha, Osaka, v. Pacific Export Lumber Co. 626
Shotwell, Admx., Payne, Director General, v ....... 653
Simmons, Davidge v. (2 cases) ...................
667
Sinclair Refining Co., Federal Trade Comm. v ...... 631
Sioux City Bridge Co. v. Dakota County... 628,630, 652
Sitton, Trustee, Oregon Eilers Music House v ...... 646
Slaker, Admr., O'Connor v ......................
610
Slocum, Trustee, v. Halliday .....................
637
Smietanka, Collector of Internal Revenue, v. First
Trust & Savings Bank, Trustee ........... 602, 628
Smietanka, Collector of Internal Revenue, v. Indiana
Steel Co ...................................
1
Smith, Admr., Davis, Director General, v .......... 625
Smith, Hill v ..................................
630
Smith, Philadelphia & Reading Ry. v .............. 613
Smith v. United States ........................... 667
Smith, Bell & Co., Rafferty, Collector of Internal
Revenue,v .................................
226
Snyder v. Davidson, Individually and as Collector.. 620
Soley, North Pacific S. S. Co. v ...................
216
South Carolina, State of, State of Georgia v ........ 516
South Carolina, State of, Johnson v ...............
668
Southern Express Co. v. Spigener, Treasurer ........ 669
Southern Pacific Co. v. Industrial Accident Comm.
of California ............................... 647
Southern Pacific R. R. v. Fall, Secy. of Interior ...... 460
Spigener, Treasurer, Southern Express Co. v ....... 669
Springfield, City of, Springfield Gas & Elec. Co. v.. 66
Springfield Gas & Elec..Co. v. City of Springfield... 66

XIW1

TABLE OF CASES REPORTED.
Pagea

Regal Drug Corporation v. Wardell, Collector of In-

ternal Revenue .............................
Rennie v. Gibson ...............................
Republic Iron & Steel Co., Wilson v ...............
Rhode Island Hospital Trust Co., Admr., v. Atwood.
Rice & Co., United States v ......................
Road Improvement Dist. No. 2, Lafayette County, v.
St. Louis Southwestern Ry ...................
Robert Mitchell Furniture Co., v. Selden Breck
Constr. Co .................................
Robinson v. United States ex rel. Brown-Ketcham
Iron Works .................................

625
611
92
661
536
547
213
664

Robinson, Texas Ranger Producing & Refg. Co. v... 646

Rockefeller v. United States ......................
Rockford Palace Furniture Co. v. Paden ...........
Rodgers, Cunningham v .........................
Rohde, Grant Smith-Porter Ship Co. v .............
Rose, Conlin v .................................
Rose v. United States ...........................
Rousso v. Barber ...............................
Rowan v. United States .........................
Ryan v. Aetna Life Ins. Co ......................

176
645
466
469
647
655
658
660
639

37
Sacks, United States v ...........................
640,666
St. Albans, City of, Fonda v ..................
St. Louis Southwestern Ry., Commissioners of Road
Improvement Dist. No. 2, Lafayette County, v.. 547
Salt River Valley Water Users' Assn., Verde Water &
643
Power Co. v ................................
613
Samad v. Behrandt, U. S. Marshal ................
San Francisco, City and County of, v. Postal Tel.
648
Cable Co ..................................
642
Savage v. United States ..........................
651
Schaff, Receiver, v. Miller .......................
Schauffele, Admx., v. Payne, Director General ...... 661
Schoyen, Admr., United States v ................

667

Schurmann v. United States ......................

621

TABLE OF CASES REPORTED.

XIW
Page.

Payne, Director General, v. Shotwell, Admx ........ 653
Payne, Director General, v. Stevens ...............
642
Peninsular Portland Cement Co. v. Consolidation
641
Coal Co ...................................
Pennsylvania, Commonwealth of, Greevy v ........ 659
Pennsylvania, Commonwealth of, v. State of West
Virginia ...................................
620
Pennsylvania R. R. v. Weber, Survivipg Partner ....
85
Perlman Rim Corporation v. Munger .............. 645
Perrin, Admx., Union Pacific R. R. v .............. 661
Pharr & Sons, Ltd., v. Kenny Co ..................
648
Phellis, United States v ..........................
156
Philadelphia & Reading Ry. v. Berg ...............
638
Philadelphia &Reading Ry. v. Smith ............... 613
Philadelphia Rubber Works Co., U. S. Rubber Reclaiming Works v ............................ 660
Pickens v. Merriam .............................
656
Pocahontas County, Iowa, Board of Supervisors,
Breiholz v .................................
118
Postal Telegraph Cable Co., City and County of San
Francisco v ................................
648
Powell, Garard & Co. v. Erath County ........ 645,646
Prioleau v. United States ........................
633
Prosser v. United States .........................
622
Public Service Elec. Co. v. Town of Westfield ...... 669
Pullman Co. v. State of Minnesota ................
663
Quemahoning Coal Co., Colonial Beach Co. v ....... 626
Rafferty, Collector of Internal Revenue, v. Compania
General De Tabacos De Filipinas .............
Rafferty, Collector of Internal Revenue, v. Smith,
Bell & Co ..................................
Rafferty, Collector of Internal Revenue, v. Visayan
Refining Co ................................
Railroad Comm. of Wisconsin v. Chicago, Burlington
& Quincy R. R ..............................
Ramdullah, Cross v .............................

226
226
226
563
655

XLIv

TABLE OF CASES REPORTED.
Page.

Nordenholt Corporation, State Industrial Comm. of
New York v ................................
Norris v. United States ..........................
North Dakota, State of, ex rel., Lemke, Attorney
General, v. Chicago & Northwestern Ry .......
North Pacific S. S. Co. v. Soley ..................
Northland Pine Co., Melin v .....................
Nye Tool & Machine Works, Crown Die & Tool
Co. v ......................................

631
77
485
216
650
632

O'Brien v. Anderson .............................
640
O'Brien v. Lashar ................................
640
O'Connor v. Slaker, Admr ........................
610
O'Connor, Virginia Ry. & Power Co. v .............. 649
Ohio, State of, Nesmith v ........................
622
Ohio, State of, ex rel. Seney, Prosecuting Attorney,
v. Swift & Co ...............................
633
Ohio, State of v. State of West Virginia ............ 620
Oklahoma, State of, Gillespie v ..................
501
Oklahoma, State of, v. State of Texas .............. 308,
609, 611, 616, 621
Oklahoma Corporation Comm., Oklahoma Gas &
Elec. Co. v .................................
666
Oklahoma Gas & Elec. Co. v. Corporation Comm. of
Oklahoma ..................................
666
Olson v. Adams et a., Trustees ...................
634
Oregon Eilers Music House, Ex parte.............. 613
Oregon Eilers Music House v. Sitton, Trustee ....... 646
Orleans, Parish of, Krauss Bros. Lumber Co. v.. 618, 636
Osaka Shosen Kaisha v. Pacific Export Lumber Co.. 626
Pace v. Zerbst, Warden .........................
Pacific Export Lumber Co., Osaka Shosen Kaisha v..
Paden, Rockford Palace Furniture Co. v ...........
Pang Hing v. White, Commr. of Immigration .......
Panhandle Grain & Elevator Co. v. Cromwell Bros..
Payne, Director General, v. Lind, Admx ...........
Payne, Director General, Schauffele, Admx., v .....

669
626
645
639
635
652
661

TABLE OF CASES REPORTED.

XLIII
Pae.

Missouri Pacific R. R. v. Clarendon Boat Oar Co.... 533
Missouri Pacific R. R. v. Izard County Highway Improvement Dist. No. 1 ....................
..
Mitchell Furniture Co. v. Selden Breck Constr. Co..
Moore, Collector of Internal Revenue, Corneli v ....
Moore, Collector of Internal Revenue, Ghio v ......
Moore & McCormack, Inc., Israel v ................
Moorehead v. United States ......................
Moreland, United States v .......................
Morse Dry Dock & Repair Co. v. Steamship Nord
Alexis .....................................
M. Rice & Co., United States v ...................
Mt. Pleasant, City of, Iowa Gas & Elec. Co. v ......
Muck v. Weyerhaeuser Timber Co ................
Munger, Perlman Rim Corporation v ..............

623
213
491
491
668
643
631
635
536
662
645
645

National Discount Co., Williams, Trustee, v ........
635
Natron Soda Co. v. United States .................
138
Nesmith v. State of Ohio ........................
622
Newberry, Central of Georgia Ry. v ...............
662
Newburger, Gettys v ............................
649
New York, City of, v. Title Guarantee & Trust Co.. 654
New York, State of, ex rel. Brixton Operating Corporation v. LaFetra, Justice ....................
665
New York, State of, v. United States, Clark et al.,
Constituting Interstate Commerce Comm., and
(intervening) Lehigh Valley R. R. et al ........ 591
Newt York Central & Hudson River R. R. v. Kinney.. 626
New York & Cuba Mail S. S. Co., Guayaquil & Quito
R . R . v ....................................
642
New York State Industrial Comm. v. Nordenholt
Corporation ...........................
.... 631
New York Trust Co. et al., Exrs., v. Edwards, Collector of Internal Revenue .....................
176
Nicholas v. United States ........................
71
Nord Alexis, Steamship, Morse Dry Dock & Repair
Co. v ....................................... 635

XLII

TABLE OF CASES REPORTED.

McConnell, Receiver, v. Hubbard .................
McDonnell, Willson v ...........................
McFadden Bros. Agency v. Standard Warehouse &
Compress Co ...............................
McKelvey v. United States ......................
Maresca v. United States ........................
Marine Ry. & Coal Co. v. United S',.tes ............
Martens v. Twin Falls-0akley Land & Water Co ....
Martineau, Chancellor, v. State of Arkansas ex rel.
Attorney General ...........................
Mason Malt Whiskey Distilling Co., Lezinsky v ....
Mastoras, Hildreth v ............................
Matthey v. United States ........................
Mauldin, Hines, Director General, v ..............
Mayne, Copper Queen Consolidated Mining Co. v..
Mecartney, United States ex rel., v. Colby, Secy. of
State ......................................
Melin v. Northland Pine Co .....................
Merchants Natl. Bank, Grinnell Overland Co. v ....
Merrell Chemical Co., Upjohn Co. v ...............
Merriam, Pickens v .......................
I .....
Meserve, Hereford v ............................
Metallic Rubber Tire Co. v. Hartford Rubber Works
Co ........................................
Mexico North Western Ry. v. Williams ............
Michigan, State of, ex rel. Groesbeck, Attorney General, v. Detroit United Ry ....................
Miles, Collector of Internal Revenue, Bryan v .....
Miller v. American Bonding Co ...................
Miller, Electro Bleaching Gas Co. v ...............
Miller, Schaff, Receiver, v .......................
Minnesota, State of, Pullman Co. v ...............
Minnesota, State of, Townley v ...................
Minnesota Commercial Men's Assn. v. Benn, Executrix .......................................
Minnesota & Ontario Paper Co., Eibel Process Co. v.
Mississippi. State of, Crescent Cotton Oil Co. v .....

Pame

635
665
643
625
657
47
637
665
637
27
658
669
663
619
650
640
638
656
636
650
644
609
491
304
660
651
663
643
625
628
129

TABLE OF CASES REPORTED.
Page

Lafayette County Road Improvement Dist. v. St.
547
Louis Southwestern Ry .....................
La Fetra, Justice, State of New York ex rel. Brixton
Operating Corporation v ....................
665
Laguna, Pueblo of, v. Candelaria ..................
623
Landis Tool Co. v. Ingle .........................
644
Langan v. City of Louisville ......................
612
Lashar, O'Brien v ...............................
640
Lauria v. United States ..........................
635
Lederer, Collector, Traylor Engineering &Mfg. Co. v. 638
Lefkowitz v. United States .......................
637
Lehigh Valley R. R. v. Allied Machinery Co ........ 614
Lehigh Valley R. R. v. John Lysaght, Ltd .......... 613
Lehigh Valley R. R., Intervener, State of New York
v. United States et al........................
591
Leigh Ellis & Co. v. Davis, Agent .................
659
Lemke, Attorney General, State of North Dakota ex
rel., v. Chicago & Northwestern Ry ............ 485
Lezinsky v. Mason Malt Whiskey Distilling Co ..... 637
Liberty, The ...................................
419
Liberty Oil Co. v. Condon Natl. Bank ..... 628, 630, 651
Lincoln Gas & Elec. Light Co., Ex parte...........
6
Lind, Adrhx., Payne, Director General, v .......... 652
Lindenburg, American Railway Express Co. v.....
627
L. N. Dantzler Lumber Co., Davis, Director General, v .....................................
632
Local Union No. 2, International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers, v. Kinloch Tel. Co ........ 662
Loucks, United States v .........................
630
Louisiana & Pine Bluff Ry. v. United States ....... 114
Louisiana Ry. & Nay. Co. v. Williams ............. 610
Louisville, City of, Langan v .....................
612
Louisville, City of, v. Louisville Ry ...............
619
Louisville Ry., City of Louisville v ................
619
Lowenthal v. United States ......................
644
Lysaght, John, Ltd., Lehigh Valley R. R. v ........ 613

XL

TABLE OF CASES REPORTED.
Pam

Jackson, Receiver, v. White ......................
659
Janowitz, United States v ........................
42
Jenkins & Co., Anaheim Sugar Co. v ............... 659
Jewett Bigelow & Brooks, Detroit Edison Co. v ....

641

J. K. Armsby Co. v. Steamship Esrom ............. 634
J. N. Pharr & Sons, Ltd., v. Kenny Co ............. 648
John Hortsmann Co. v. United States ............. 138
John Lysaght, Ltd., Lehigh Valley R. R. v .......... 613
Johnson v. State of South Carolina ................
668
Jones v. Seiffert ................................
618
Journey, Alabama & Vicksburg Ry. v ............... 111
Kahn et al., Exrs., v. United States ................
244
Kaisha, Osaka Shosen, v. Pacific Export Lumber Co. 626
Kansas City Motion Picture Machine Operators v.
Hughes ....................................
621
Kansas City Southern Ry. v. Van Zant ............ 627
Katz v. United States .....................
.... 641
Katzel, Bourjois & Co. v ..........................
630
Keeley v. Evans, District Attorney ................
667
Keith, Trustee, Kilmer, Trustee, v ................
639
Kelley v. West Braddock Bridge Co ...............
641
Kenny Co., Pharr & Sons, Ltd., v .................
648
Kern River Co. v. United States ..................
147
Keystone Watch Case Co. v. United States (2 cases). 664
639
Kilmer, Trustee, v. Keith, Trustee ................
King, Zucht v ..................................
650
King County v. Hewitt-Lea Lumber Co ........ 622,661
Kinloch Tel. Co., Local Union No. 2, International
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, v .......... 662
Kinney, New York Central & Hudson River R. R. v. 626
Kissel Motor Car Co. v. Walker ...................
634
Klipstein & Co. v. Dilsizian ......................
639
Koenig, Wabash Ry. v ...........................
660
Kowalski, Hines, Director General, v ............
649
Krauss Bros. Lumber Co. v. Board of Assessors, Parish
of Orleans .............................
618, 636
K. W. Ignition Co. v. Ford Motor Co .............. 658

TABLE OF CASES REPORTED.

XXx=
Page.

Hines, Director General, v. Kowalski .............. 649
Hines, Director General, v. Mauldin .............. 669
Hing, Pang, v. White, Commr. of Immigration..... 639
Hinkle, Secy. of State, Washington, Takuji Yamashita v .;. ..................................

Holohan, U. S. Marshal, Garcia v ................
Holter Hardware Co., Boyle v ....................
Horstmann Co. v. United States ..................
Hubbard, McConnell, Receiver, v .................
Hughes, Kansas City Motion Picture Machine Operators v ..................................
Hughes, Secy. of State, United States ex rel. Widenmann v ....................................
Hunt, Exr. v. United States ......................
Hunter v. United States .........................
Hurley v. Commission of Fisheries of Virginia ......

628

663
666
138
635
621
619
125
633
223

Illinois, State of, ex rel. Chicago Bar Assn., Ward v.. 666
Indiana Steel Co., Smietanka, Collector of Internal
Revenue, v ................................
1
Industrial Accident Comm. of California, Southern
"Pacific Co. v ...............................
647
Ingle, Landis Tool Co. v .........................
644
Insular Collector of Customs, Dharandas Tulsidas v. 624
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers v.
Kinloch Tel. Co ............................
662
International Ry. v. Davidson, Individually and as
Collector ...................................
506
Interstate Commerce Comm., Central R. R. Co. of
New Jersey v ................................
247
Interstate Commerce Comm., State of New York v.. 591
Iowa Gas & Elec. Co. v. City of Mt. Pleasant ....... 662
Isles Steamshipping Co., Gans S. S. Line v .......... 662
Israel v. Moore & McCormack, Inc ...............
668
I. T. S. Rubber Co. v. Essex Rubber Co ............ 664
Izard County Highway Improvement Dist. No. 1,
Missouri Pacific R. R. v .....................
623

xxxwii

TABLE OF CASES REPORTED.
Page.

Grant Smith-Porter Ship Co. v. Rohde ............ 469
637
Grayson v. United States ........................
629
Great Northern Ry. v. Steinke ...................
Green, Admx., Davis, Director General, v ........... 627
Greevy v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania ......... 659
Grinnell Overland Co. v. Merchants Natl. Bank .... 640
Groesbeck, Attorney General, State of Michigan ex
609
rel., v. Detroit United Ry ....................
656
Grogan v. United States .........................
624
Groomes, Blackistone v ..........................
Guayaquil & Quito R. R. v. New York & Cuba Mail
642
S. S. Co ...................................
Hallanan, State Tax Commr., Eureka Pipe Line
265
Co. v ......................................
Hallanan, State Tax Commr., United Fuel Gas
277
Co. v ......................................
637
Slocum,
Trustee,
v
.....................
Halliday,
Hannah Neilson, Steamship, Tolo v ....... 628, 651, 653
668
Hanvey, Strahan v ..............................
646
Harris, Leopold, v. United States .................
623
....................
Harris, P. H., v. United States
Hartford Rubber Works Co., Metallic Rubber Tire
Co. v ...................................... 650
624
Harvey v. Union Traction Co ....................
Heldman v. Central Trust Co., Trustee ............ 664
640
Henry v. United States ..........................
636
Hereford v. Meserve ............................
658
Herrick v. Basletta ..............................
Herschberger, Woodrow-Parker Co. v ............. 661
Hewitt-Lea Lumber Co., King County v ....... 622,661
656
Hickey, Bowen v ...............................
27
Hildreth v. Mastoras ............................
630
Hill v. Smith ..................................
Hill v. Wallace, Secy. of Agriculture ........... 310,615
Hines, Agent, Globe & Rutgers Fire Ins. Co. v ...... 643
659
Hines, Director General, v. Butler ................

TABLE'OF CASES REPORTED.

xxxvit
Pae.

Ex parte United States, Owner of The Carolinian... 419

Ex parte United States, Owner of The Liberty .....

419

Ex parteUnited States, Owner of TheWestem Maid. 419
Ex parte Warner ...............................
614
Fall, Secy. of Interior, Southern Pacific R. R. v ..... 460
Farmers Life Ins. Co. v. Foster Bldg. & Realty Co... 654
Farrell v. First Natl. Bank of Philadelphia ..... 634,635
Federal Trade Comm. v. Beech-Nut Packing Co.... 441
Federal Trade Comm. v. Fruit Growers' Express, Inc. 627
Federal Trade Comm. v. Sinclair Refining Co ....... 631
First Natl. Bank of Philadelphia v. Farrell ..... 634, 635
First Trust & Savings Bank, Trustee, Smietanka, Collector of Internal Revenue, v ............. 602, 628
Fisher, Star Co. v ..............................
654
Fonda v. City of St. Albans ..................
640,666
Fook, Doo, v. United States ..............
628, 652, 654
Ford, Admx., v. Davis, Director General ........... 641
Ford Motor Co., K. W. Ignition Co. v ............. 658
Foster Bldg. & Realty Co., Farmers Life Ins. Co. v.. 654
Fruit Growers' Express, Inc., Federal Trade Comm. v. 627

Gans S. S. Line v. Arnot, Master ..................
Gans S. S. Line v. Isles Steamshipping Co., Ltd .....
Garcia v. Holohan, U. S. Marshal ..................
Garcia, Admr., Western Fuel Co. v ................
Gear Grinding Machine Co., Studebaker Corporation
v .........................................
George H. McFadden Bros. Agency v. Standard
Warehouse & Compress Co ..................
Georgia, State of, v. State of South Carolina ........
Gettys v. Newburger ............................
Ghio v. Moore, Collector of Internal Revenue ......
Gibson, Rennie v ...............................
Gillespie v. State of Oklahoma ...................
Globe & Rutgers Fire Ins. Co. v. Hines, Agent ......
Goodrich v. West Lumber Co ....................
Gould & Curry Mining Co. v. Douglas .............

662
662
663
233
653
643
516
649
491
611
501
643
610
645

XXXVI

TABLE OF CASES REPORTED.
Page.

Director General of Railroads v. Buschalewski,
639
Admx ......................................
Doo Fook v. United States ..............
628,652,654
Dorn, Crittenden v ..............................

648

Douglas, Gould & Curry Mining Co. v .............
Drake, Tennessee, Alabama & Georgia R. R. v ......
Drennen, Receiver, Tilton v .............. 631, 651,
Dubman v. United States ........................
Dunkley Co. v. California Packing Co .............
Dunn, Chaloner v ...............................
Durr, Auditor, Citizens Natl. Bank of Cincinnati, Administrator, v ..............................

645
612
657
650
644
609
99

Eastes v. Crutchley, Collector of Internal Revenue.. 491
Eberlein v. United States ........................
82
Edwards, Collector of Internal Revenue, New York
Trust Co. et al., Exrs., v .....................
176
Eibel Process Co. v. Minnesota & Ontario Paper Co.. 628
Electro Bleaching Gas Co. v. Miller ............... 660
Elliott, Wabash Ry. v ..........................
632
Ellis & Co. v. Davis, Agent ......................
659
Elwell v. United States ..........................
647
Embry v. United States .........................
655
Emergency Fleet Corporation v. Wood, Trustee ..... 627
Erath County v. Powell, Garard & Co ......... 645,646
Erie R. R. v. Cott, Admx. (2 cases) ................
Esrom, Steamship, Armsby Co. v ..................

636
634

Essex Rubber Co., Ex parte......................
621W
Essex Rubber Co., I. T. S. Rubber Co. v ........... 664
Eureka Pipe Line Co. v. Hallanan, State Tax
265
Commr ....................................
Evans, District Attorney, Keeley v ................

667

Everglades Sugar & Land Co. v. Bryan, Clerk ......
Ewen v. American Fidelity Co ....................
Ex parte Bain ..................................
Ex parte Essex Rubber Co .......................
Ex parte Lincoln Gas & Elec. Light Co ............
Ex parte Oregon Eilers Music House ..............

667
625
609
621
6
613

TABLE OF CASES REPORTED.

7=x
Page.

Crookshank v. Stone, Chief of Police .............. 664
Cross v. Ramdullah .............................
Crown Die & Tool Co. v. Nye Tool & Machine
Works .....................................
Crutchley, Collector of Internal Revenue, Eastes v.
Cunningham v. Rodgers .........................
Curtis, Receiver, v. Connly .......................

655
632
491
466
260

Dahnke-Walker Milling Co. v. Bondurant .........
282
Dakota County, Sioux City Bridge Co. v.. 628,630,652
Dallas, City of, v. Dallas Tel. Co. .............
638, 668
Dallas Tel. Co., City of Dallas v ..............
638, 668
Dantzler Lumber Co., Davis, Director General, v .... 632
Davidge v. Simmons (2 cases) ................
667
Davidson, Individually and as Collector, International Ry. v ................................
506
Davidson, Individually and as Collector, Snyder v... 620
Davis v. American Engineering Co ................
653
Davis v. Cooksey ...............................
665
Davis, Agent, Leigh Ellis & Co. v ..................
659
Davis, Director General, v. Akins .................
658
Davis, Director General, v. Colvin ................
652
Davis, Director General, v. Dantzler Lumber Co .... 632
Davis, Director General, Ford, Admx., v ............
641
Davis, Director General, v. Green, Admx ...........
627
Davis, Director General, v. Smith, Admr ...........
625
Davis, Director General, v. State Industrial Comm.. 642
Davis, Director General, v. Wallace ...............
478
DeRees v. Costaguta ............................
648
Dermott Land & Lumber Co. v. Zelnicker Supply Co. 648
Detroit Edison Co. v. Jewett Bigelow & Brooks ..... 641
Detroit United Ry., Township of Avon v ...........
618
Detroit United Ry., State of Michigan ex rel. Groesbeck, Attorney General, v ....................
609
Dharandas Tulsidas v. Insular Collector of Customs. 624
Diamond, Connolly, Admr., v ....................
656
Dierkes v. United States .........................
646
Dilsizian, Klipstein & Co. v ......................
639

Xxxiv

TABLE OF CASES REPORTED.
Page.

Clarksdale, City of, Yazoo & Mississippi Valley R. R.
S o............... ............................

10

Cohen v. United States .......................... 657
Colby, Secy. of State, United States ex rel. Mecartney v..................................... 619
Cole v. Suflinger, U. S. Attorney .................. 663
Colonial Beach Co. v. Quemahoning Coal Co ....... 626
Colvin, Davis, Director General, v ................ 652
Commission of Fisheries of Virginia, Hurley v ..... 223
Commissioners of Road Improvement Dist. No. 2,
Lafayette County, v. St. Louis Southwestern Ry. 547
Compania General De Tabacos De Filipinas, Rafferty,
Collector of Internal Revenue, v .............. 226
Computing Scale Co., Toledo Scale Co. v .......... 657
Concrete Steel Co. v. Vandenburg ................ 632
Condon Natl. Bank, Liberty Oil Co. v ...... 628, 630, 651
647
...........................
Conlin v.Rose
Connly, Curtis, Receiver, v ...................... 260
Connolly, Admr., v. Diamond ..................... 656
Consolidation Coal Co., Peninsular Portland Cement
Co. v...................................... 641
Continental Ins. Co. v. United States .............. 622
Continental Mines, Power & Reduction Co., Stemberger v ................................... 617
Cook, Exr., United States v ...................... 523
Cooksey, Davis v ............................... 665
Copper Queen Consolidated Mining Co. v. Mayne... 663

Corneli v.Moore, Collector of Internal Revenue ....491
Corporation Comm. of Oklahoma, Oklahoma Gas &
Elec. Co. v ................................. 666
Corrigan, Truax et al., Copartners,,v ............... 312
Costaguta, De Rees v ........................... 648
Cott, Admx., Erie R. R. v. (2 cases) ............... 636
Crescent Cotton Oil Co. v. State of Mississippi ..... 129
Crittenden v.Dor .............................. 648
Crittenden v. Widrevitz, Admx ................... 636
Cromwell Bros., Panhandle Grain & Elevator Co. v.. 635

TABLE OF CASES REPORTED.

MXImII
Page

Bulk Oil Transports v. Thompson
................ 657
Burgoon, Treasurer, State of Arizona ex rel.,
W atts v ...................................
617
Burke Constr. Co., Terral, Secy. of State, Arkansas, v ......................................
529
Buschalewski, Admx., Director General of Railroads v ......... ...........................
639
Butler, Hines, Director General, v ................ 659
Byron v. United States ..........................
653
California Industrial Accident Comm., Southern Pacific Co. v ..................................
647
California Packing Co., Dunkley Co. v ............. 644
Candelaria, Pueblo of Laguna v...................
623
Carolinian, The ................................
419
Caster, United States v .........................
666
C. D. Kenny Co., Pharr & Sons, Ltd., v ........... 648
Central of Georgia Ry. v. Newberry ...............
662
Central Railroad Co. of New Jersey v. United States
and Interstate Commerce Comm ............. 247
Central Trust Co., Trustee, Heldman v ............ 664
Chaloner v.. Dunn ...............................
609
Champlain Realty Co. v. Town of Brattleboro ...... 626
Chan Wy Sheung v. United States ........ 629, 652, 654
Chicago, City of, v. Chicago Railways Co .........
617
Chicago Bar Assn., State of Illinois ex ret., Ward v.. 666
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R., Railroad Comm.
of Wisconsin v ..............................
563
Chicago & Northwestern Ry., State of North Dakota
ex rel. Lemke, Attorney General, v ............ 485
Chicago Railways Co., City of Chicago v ........... 617
Citizens Natl. Bank of Cincinnati, Administrator, v.
Durr, Auditor ..............................
99
Clarendon Boat Oar Co., Missouri Pacific R. R. v... 533
Clark et al., Constituting Interstate Commerce
Comm., State of New York v .................
591

xxx=i

TABLE OF CASES REPORTED.
Page.

Arnot, Master, Gans S. S. Line v ..................
Attorney General, State of Arkansas ex rel., Martineau, Chancellor, v ........................
Atwood, Rhode Island Hospital Trust Co., Admr., v..
Avon, Township of, v. Detroit United Ry ..........

662
665
661
618

609
Bain, Ex parte .................................
Bankers Trust Co., Exr., Virginia Ry. & Power Co. v. 649
Barber, Rousso v ................................

658

Barber & Co. v. Wilhelnsen ......................
Basletta, Herrick v ..............................

655
658

Beech-Nut Packing Co., Federal Trade Comm. v ....

441

Behrandt, U. S. Marshal, Abdul Samad v .......... 613
Benn, Executrix, Minnesota Commercial Men's
625
Assn. v ....................................
Berg, Philadelphia & Reading Ry. v ............... 638
Billingsley v. United States (2 cases) .............. 656
624
Blackistone v. Groomes .........................
Board of Assessors, Parish of Orleans, Krauss Bros.
618,636
Lumber Co. v..........................
Board of Supervisors, Pocahontas County, Iowa,
118
Breiholz v .................................
Bondurant, Dahnke-Walker Milling Co. v ......... 282
630
Bourjois & Co. v. Katzel .........................
656
Bowen v. Hickey ...............................
667
Bowles v. United States .........................
614
Boylan v. United States .........................
666
Boyle v. Holter Hardware Co ....................
Brattleboro, Town of, Champlain Realty Co. v ..... 626
Breiholz v. Board of Supervisors, Pocahontas County,
118
Iowa ......................................
Brixton Operating Corporation, State of New York
665
ex rel., v. La Fetra, Justice ...................
Brown-Ketcham Iron Works, United States ex tel.,
664
..........................
Robinson v
Bryan, Clerk, Everglades Sugar & Land Co. v ....... 667
Bryan v. Miles, Collector of Internal Revenue ...... 491

TABLE OF OASES REPORTED.
Abdul Samad v. Behrandt, U. S. Marshal..........
A. Bourjois & Co. v. Katzel ......................
Acme Mfg. Co., Arminius Chemical Co. v ..........
Adams et al., Trustees, Olson v ...................
Aetna Life Ins. Co., Ryan v ......................
Akins, Davis, Director General, v .................
A. Klipstein & Co. v. Dilsizian ...................
Alabama & Vicksburg Ry. v. Journey .............
Allied Machinery Co., Lehigh Valley R. R. v .......
American Bonding Co., Miller v ..................
American Column & Lumber Co. v. United States..
American Engineering Co., Davis v ...............
American Fidelity Co., Ewen v ..................
American Mills Co. v. American Surety Co. of New
Y ork ......................................
American Railway Express Co. v. Lindenburg ......
American Steel Foundries v. Tri-City Central Trades
Council ....................................
American Surety Co. of New York, American Mills
Co. v ......................................
A. M. Holter Hardware Co., Boyle v ..............
Anaheim Sugar Co. v. Jenkins & Co ...............
Anderson, O'Brien v .............................
Anderson v. United States .......................
Anderson-Tully Co., Wineman v ..................
Arizona, State of, ex rel. Burgoon, Treasurer,
W atts v .......................
...........
Arkansas, State of, ex rel. Attorney General, Martineau, Chancellor, v ........................
Arminius Chemical Co. v. Acme Mfg. Co ..........
Armsby Co. v. Steamship Esrom ..................
Arnold et al., Exrs., Stevens v ...................
.
xxxI

Pame

613
630
647
634
639
658
639
111
614
304
377
653
625

626
627
184
626
666
659
640
647
647
617
665
647
634
631

EDWARD DOUGLASS WHITE.

XXIX

associated. The strength and ruggedness and dignity of
his character were stamped in his face, and these things
but lent a peculiar charm to his gentleness and kindly
manner. He was a gentleman of the old school.
"Of his personal relations to the members of the court
in the intimacy of conference, I can not, of course, speak
from personal experience. They are shown in the touching words in which, immediately after his death, the
senior Associate Justice of this court, so long a loved and
loving comrade in service with Chief Justice White, expressed the affectionate esteem in which the colleagues
of this great Chief Justice held him. In closing this
response for the court to these resolutions, I can best
express their estimate of his judicial work by quoting
Mr. Justice McKenna when he said:
'Anticipating the future, I see no shadow on his fame
or service. I venture to make comparison. I make full
concession of the recognized and distinguished merit of
those who preceded him. I make full admission in assured prophecy of the ability of those who will succeed
him. Yet, considering his qualities, their variety and
degree, and estimating them, I dare to say that he will
forever keep a distinct eminence among the Chief Justices
of the United States.'
" The resolutions and the accompanying remarks will
be entered upon the records of the court."
I

xxvIi

EDWARD DOUGLASS WHITE.

could be more sensitive in this regard than Chief Justice
White. He carried for eleven years the additional burden
of the executive direction of the court. In his later years
he did his work with the burden of growing physical defects entailing obstacle and suffering, which he refused to
betray and to which he would not yield. His whole being
was absorbed by his anxious concern for the maintenance
of the prestige of the court in the preservation of the
Constitution and the -upholding of its principles. He
took infinite pains even in the lesser details of his duties.
He regarded his office as a sacred trust, as a Holy Grail,
which awakened an intense scrutiny of his own conduct
and of that of every member of the court.
"Of the story of his career, which began as a soldier of
the Confederacy at sixteen years, and the quick recognition of his power for usefulness from his early professional
beginnings until by noteworthy steps he reached this
Bench, there is not time to speak. His leadership of the
long but successful fight against the lottery evil in Louisiana showed how formidable he was in organization aud
how courageous in action. His power as a speaker was
revealed in later years only by the few addresses he was
induced reluctantly to make to the American Bar Association. At Montreal and Washington his hearers were captivated by the grace and fluency of his diction, the exqui.
site charm, dignity, and force of his bearing, and the
depth of his expressed conviction. His touching metaphor to illustrate his own change of heart toward ' Old
Glory,' of the fading of the gray of the Confederacy into
the blue of the Union, 'the invisible blue,' as he adapted
it from the moving story of the Cricket on the Hearth,
will never fade from the memory of those who were privileged to hear him.
"Edward Douglass White was the exemplary citizen,
the considerate neighbor and friend, and the loving husband. He had a great heart, full of sympathy for mankind. He had an unfailing courtesy and a sweetness of
manner which endeared him to all with whom he was

EDWARD DOUGLASS WHITE.

MVI

to suppress growing evils. All presented new remedial
legislation requiring accurate construction with a view to
keeping within the limits fixed by the fundamental law
on the one hand, and giving effect to their beneficent
purpose on the other. Here, too, the genius of Chief
Justice White as a statesman and a jurist shone forth.
" In the World War his opinions supporting statutes enacted to enable the Government to carry on the struggle,
to mass all its resources of men and money in the country's defense, and to restrain sinister efforts to obstruct it
reveal an intense patriotic appreciation of the necessity
of vesting full powers in the nation when its integrity
is threatened and of the existence of ample authority to
this end in the Constitution. The Chief Justice, in the
Selective Draft case, delivered one of his great opinions.
"Any association with Chief Justice White left no
doubt of the force and strength of his convictions. Massive, dignified, impressive as was his physical mould, his
mental structure was like it. There is an indefinable something about a leader of men that we call 'personality,'
difficult to define, but which makes itself felt wherever
they are. This quality Chief Justice White had in a
marked degree. In the settlement of every issue he had
to be reckoned with. With lofty ideals as a statesman,
with profound learning, with a love of logical processes
and of the manifestation of them in his exposition of his
views, he drove home his conclusion with a confidence and
a convincing assurance that distinguishes his judicial
expression.
"His capacity for work was enormous. During his
service on the bench the court in one way or another
disposed of many thousands of cases, and he himself prepared more than seven hundred opinions for the court.
The number of opinions is usually made the measure of a
judge's work, but it is only a part of it. The study of
cases with a view to their decision in conference is the
greater task, and this varies with the individual judge and
with his conscience and feeling of responsibility. No one

XXV1

EDWARD DOUGLASS WHITE.

to give the time and attention indispensable to the exercise of these powers in detail forced the modification of
the rule. Similar necessity caused Congress to create
other bodies with analogous relations to the existing
legislative, executive, and judicial machinery of the Federal Government, and these in due course came under the
examination of this court. Here was a new field of administrative law which needed a knowledge of government and an experienced understanding of our institutions safely to define and declare. The pioneer work of
Chief Justice White in this field entitles him to the gratitude of his countrymen.
"The chief question presented by the Spanish War was
the application of the Constitution to the new possessions
of the Government. We were to administer them for the
benefit of their peoples of races alien to ours and with but
little understanding of our free institutions. Was there
elasticity enough in our governmental structure to permit
this to be done with the application of specific constitutional guaranties of liberty sacred to the traditions of our
people, but dangerous and impracticable in a society
untrained in their use?
"After much difference of opinion between the members
of the court, the distinction in the rigid application of
these guaranties as between territory acquired by the
United States and belonging to it, and territory thereafter incorporated by Congress into the Union, originally insisted on by Mr. Justice White, became the settled
opinion of the court and the law of the land. It enabled
our Government to do a beneficent colonial work for retarded peoples. The once genuine fear of imperialistic
ten&ncy from the distinction has faded away.
"The enlargement of the national governmental functions by the use of the regulatory power over commerce
among the States, in the lottery statute, the pure food
act, the white slave act, and other measures, a power
which in these forms of exercise had lain dormant since
the beginning of the Government, was actively employed

EDWARD DOUGLASS WHITE.

XXV

"The interpretation of the Sherman Act by Chief Justice White, in his opinion in the Standard Oil case, is
monumental and the most satisfactory exposition of its
purpose and scope in the books.
"Of the same period and responding to the same popular impulse was the income tax, and the great difference
of opinion in this court as to its constitutionality was
followed by a popular reversal of the judgment of the
majority through constitutional means. Mr. Justice
White was one of the minority in that case, and it remained for him as Chief Justice, speaking for a unanimous
court, to interpret the amendment which made the opinion of the minority the fundamental law.
"The capital importance which our railroad system has
come to have in the welfare of this country made the
judicial construction of the interstate commerce act of
critical moment. It is not too much to say that Chief
Justice White in construing the measure and its great
amendments has had more to do with placing this vital
part of our practical government on a useful basis than
any other judge. His opinions in the case of the Texas
& Pacific Railway Co. v. The Abilene Cotton Oil Co.,
and the cases which followed it, are models of clear and
satisfactory reasoning which gave to the people, to state
legislatures, to Congress, and the courts a much-needed
knowledge of the practical functions the Commerce Commission was to discharge, and of how they were to be
reconciled to existing governmental machinery, for the
vindication of the rights of the public in respect of fiational transportation. They are a conspicuous instance
of his unusual and remarkable power and facility in
statesmanlike interpretation of statute law.
"The Interstate Commerce Commission was authorized
to exercise powers the conferring of which by Congress
would have been, perhaps, thought in the earlier years of
the Republic to violate the rule that no legislative power
can be delegated. But the inevitable progress and exigencies of government and the utter inability of Congress

XXIV

EDWARD DOUGLASS WHrITE.

see that through the mercy of the inscrutible providence
of God you have been called to rest and to your exceeding
reward!'"
THE CHmF JusTicE responded:
"Mr. Attorney General, the resolutions of the Bar and
the words in which you present 'them are an appropriate
expression of the inestimable loss which the people of
this country and the members of the Bar feel in the
death of Chief Justice White. Expressions of sympathy
and appreciation of his high standing as a jurist before
the world from the Lord Chancellor of England and the
Bar of that country have been forwarded to the court
and will be preserved in its records.
"Twenty-seven years of service upon this Bench, sixteen years as an Associate Justice and eleven years as
-head of the court, makes Chief Justice White's record
nearly equal to that of John Marshall. The critical period
covered by the span of so many years, beginning early in
the last decade of one century and extending into the
third of the next, likens itself in importance to that covered by the term of the great interpreter of the Constitution. It embraced two wars, and a period of social and
business reforms involving substantial and necessary
changes in our methods of government, with the application of which this court has had much to do. In the necessary adjustment, the opinions of Chief Justice White were
most able and helpful contributions.
"The enormous material expansion of the latter half of
the nineteenth century developed a corporate power and
political control through wealth which threatened the
welfare of the Republic, and the abuses then existing led
to the enactment of most far-reaching remedial legislation.
"The antitrust act directed toward dangerous restraints
of trade and monopolies, necessarily couched in words of
general import, required the adjudication of this court to
interpret its meaning and apply the remedies to the evil
which its framers had in mind.

EDWARD DOUGLASS WHITE.

= H

pride in him. He was deeply conscious of the great obligations that power brought with it. With a keen sense
of responsibility he cheerfully set forth for the accomplishment of his work and humbly fashioned his life to
render service. He was humble, yet his humility was
not that superficial deference that one man formally pays
to another. His great mind had penetrated far enough
into spiritual things to understand the smallness of man
in the infinite purpose of God. Of him it could truly be
said that his purpose was to do justice, to love mTercy,
and to walk humbly with his God. He had the true
humanitarian spirit. He loved his fellowman. Those
who came in contact with him felt the radiance of his
nature, and men everywhere loved him. Such a nature
as his must have been the inspiration of Lowell when
he wrote those beautiful lines containing life's truest
philosophy:
'Be noble! and the nobleness that lies
In other men, sleeping but never dead,
Will rise in majesty to meet thine own.'
"All these qualities of personal endowment, together
with a tact and skill in his relationship to those about
him, rarely equaled, combined to make him a leader of
men. As leader of this court he will rank among the
great Chief Justices-certainly the equal of any since the
days of Marshall.
"In closing I can describe this great statesman and
gifted jurist in no better way than to use his own eloquent words. Speaking on a similar occasion of one of
his colleagues on the Bench-Mr. Justice Lamar-he
said:
'0 true American and devoted public servant, 0 cherished friend and faithful comrade, 0 sweet and noble
soul, may it be vouchsafed that the results of your work
may endure and fructify for the preservation of the rights
of mankind, and may there be given to us who remain,
wiping from our eyes the mists begotten of your loss, to

EDWARD DOUGLASS WHITE.

"Chief Justice White was a believer in the Constitution,
yet he saw the dangers resulting from an abuse of the
Constitution by those who seek to invoke it through the
agency of our judiciary for their own purposes as against
the legitimate rights of all the people. In an address
delivered before the American Bar Association in this
city, in October, 1914, he said:
'There is great danger, it seems to me, to arise from
the constant habit which prevails where anything is opposed or objected to, of resorting without rhyme or reason
to the Constitution as a means of preventing its accomplishment, thus creating the general impression that the
Constitution is but a barrier to progress instead of being
the broad highway through which alone true progress
may be enjoyed.'
"Nature was kind to Chief Justice White. The elements were so mixed in him that he was destined to be
one of earth's noblemen. His profound mind in all its
manifestations was supplemented by a largeness of personality and of life. He was a man of dignity, yet his
dignity was a natural manifestation of a great soul rather
than of any conscious effort. He had the modesty, the
simplicity, and the tenderness of a child, yet a firmness
and courage that made him a power in any cause in which
he believed. He was no egotist. In everything that he
has written about himself, as well as in his personal
demeanor, there is a significant absence of anything that
would bear the impress of self-glorification. He was considerateness itself for those about him. To the members
of the court, to the members of the Bar, to all with whom
he came in contact, whether rich or poor or of high or
low degree, he manifested a kindly, considerate spirit.
He was courteous and polite, but he was far more than
polite. Courtesy and politeness are sometimes formal
rules of conduct. In him they were the outward expression of a nature that loved human fellowship. High
official position, great learning, raised no impulse of false

EDWARD DOUGLASS WHITE.
for this reason, be classed as opposed to progress and as
opposed to an interpretation of the Constitution as a
living vital organism adapted to twentieth century needs.
A careful study of the two cases, Lochner v. New York
(198 U. S., 45) and Hammer v. Dagenhart (247 U. S.,
251), as types of many other similar cases, will show that
his position must 4e explained upon the theory of constitutional law and not upon any theory of social philosophy. He supported social welfare legislation by the
states in the exercise of their police power. He opposed
any definite enlarging the power of Congress to regulate
commerce or any other power of the Federal Constitution
to enact similar legislation, where such legislation, as he
thought, was an exercise of the police power reserved to
the states.
"Closely akin to this subject it may be said that he was
no extreme advocate of absolute liberty, either of person
or of contract, nor did he believe in the unnecessary extension of governmental control over individuals. In an
address before the American Bar Association at-Montreal,
Canada, in 1913, introducing the Lord High Chancellor of
Great Britain, after epitomizing the experiences of Roman
government and the history of the development of jurisprudence as illuminated by the teachings of Christianity,
he said:
IWhen analyzed, these conceptions give the clearest
apprehension of the rudimentary truths underlying all
constitutional systems of government, and demonstrate
that mere questions of municipal law are of minor importance when compared with the fundamental considerations which are at the basis of the preservation of free
institutions; that is, the conservatism which is necessary
to conserve representative government, the willingness
of one to submit to such restraints upon his own conduct
as are essential to the preservation of the rights of all.
In other words, the power of a free people to restrain
themselves in order that freedom may endure!

EDWARD DOUGLASS WHITE.
under the commerce clause of the Constitution and legislation thereunder, such as the Sherman Antitrust Act of
July 2, 1890, in which opinions the so-called rule of reason
was announced. His position on this subject first occurs
in a dissenting opinion in the case of United States v,
Trans-Missouri Freight Association (166 U. S., 290), delivered in 1896. The court had occasion to consider this
subject in other cases during the succeeding fourteen
years, and the attitude of the court on this question
was such that at the end of this interval the Chief Justice
was able to write the opinion for the court, in 1910, in the
case of Standard Oil,Company v. United States (221 U. S.,
1) and in the case of United States v.American Tobacco
Company (221 U. S., 106).

Speaking for the court, he

said:
'Applying the rule of reason to the construction of the
statute, it was held in the Standard Oil case that as the
words ' restraint of trade' at common law and in the law
of this country at the time of the adoption of the AntiTrust Act only embraced acts or contracts or agreements
or combinations which operated to the prejudice of the
public interests by unduly restricting competition, or unduly obstructing the due course of trade, or which, either
because of their inherent nature or effect, or because of the
evident purpose of the acts, etc., injuriously restrained
trade, that the words as used in the statute were designed
to have and did have but a like significance.' (221 U. S.,

179.)
"Chief Justice White never permitted economic theory
to dominate his views of constitutional law. This is
shown in the Pollock case, where he stood for the historic
definition of the fathers as to direct taxes rather than to
accept the definition as given by the economists in 1895.
Likewise, he held his social and political philosophy subordinate to his juristic views of the Constitution. He
did not believe that because legislation was desirable it
was therefore constitutional. He should not, however,

EDWARD DOUGLASS WHITE.

7=x

source from which the particular taxing power takes its
being and that it is the power to transmit, or the transmission from the dead to the living, on which such
taxes
are more immediately rested.' (178 U. S., 56.)
" Hence, the opinion. held that the tax levied was upon
the right to inherit and not upon the property itself.
Being a tax upon the right instead of upon the property,
it was in the nature of an excise tax, and hence indirect.
For wealth of learning, thorough familiarity with the
literature of the subject-economic, historical, and juristio-the discussion of Chief Justice White in this opinion
has few superiors in our American jurisprudence. It is a
genuine contribution to the jurisprudence of our country
on the subject of taxation with reference to the devolution
of property by inheritance or will. It fully vindicates
and demonstrates the value of the study of comparative
jurisprudence. Chief Justice White, profoundly learned
in the jurisprudence of ancient and modem times, with
a.wealth of comparative knowledge of the civil as well
as the common law, was able to bring his civil-law knowledge to bear as the handmaid to assist the common law
when necessary, but was wise and judicious enough never,
in P pedantic way, to force the discussion of the civil law
in his opinions unless it was necessary and vitally contributive as an aid to the development of his subject.
"Neither the time nor the occasion permits an extended
discussion of the Insular Cases. In working out the problems incident to these cases Chief Justice White made
his full contribution of labor, of thought, and of learning.
Starting as a dissenter, his views and those of others
associated with him finally prevailed and became the
rule of law for the court, and in the last of these cases
(Rasmussen v. United States, 197 U. S., 516) he was able
to write the opinion, reafrming the views that he and
his associates had held from the beginning, for the majority of the court.
"Among the most famous of the opinions of Chief Justice White are those defining the powers of Congress

Xvin

EDWARD DOUGLASS WHITE.

for conducting the Government. Here we see the soldier
of the Confederacy, the idol of his native state, born and
reared and steeped in the political philosophy of states
rights, developing in majestic splendor, and when the
hour came for him under the responsibility of office, with
broadening vision, we see him take his place as a worthy
successor to Marshall as an apostle of nationalism. He
protested against any decision in this case that would
enfeeble the National Government and make it a helpless
prey to the whim or caprice of the states. He lived to see
the triumph of these views. After a lapse of twenty-one
years they became the law of the land by the sixteenth
amendment to the Constitution. That he fully realized
this is seen from the statement in the case of Brushaber
v. Union Pacific Railroad Company (240 U. S., 1), in
which the income-tax provisions of the tariff act of 1913
were before the court. Rendering the opinion, he said:
'Indeed, in the light of the history which we have
given and of the decision in the Pollock Case and the
ground upon which the ruling in that case was based, there
is no escape from the conclusion that the amendment was
drawn for the purpose of doing away for the future with
the principle upon which the Pollock Case was decided
* * *.f (240 U. S., 18.)
"Another opinion especially important in illustrating
the characteristics of Chief Justice White as a jurist is
that of Knowlton v. Moore (178 U. S., 41), decided May
14, 1900. The main question involved in this case was
whether a tax upon legacies under the war revenue act
of 1898 was a direct tax, and therefore subject to apportionment, or indirect, and therefore to be governed by
the rule of uniformity. Chief Justice White reviewed
the inheritance tax laws of Rome and other ancient nations and the modem law of France and other continental
countries, as well as those of England and her colonies,
and declared that an examination of all shows that:
'Tax laws of this nature in all countries rest in their
essence upon the principle that death is the generating

EDWARD DOUGLASS WHITE.

XvHI

"This opinion also reveals another favorite method of
legal analysis of Chief Justice White; that is, to test the
soundness of any decision by following its effect to its
logical consequence. This, it may be said with assurance, is one of the highest characteristics that any jurist
can have who occupies a place in the Supreme Court of
the United States. Again and again, running through
the opinions of Chief Justice White is the principle that
the statesman-jurist will not plant himself upon a decision that works IlI in its ultimate results if he can find a
ground that will work beneficially. On tiis point in the
Pollock case he said:
'The injustice of the conclusion points to the error
of
adopting it. * * * A rule which works out this result,
which, it seems to me, stultifies the Constitution by making it an instrument of the most grievous wrong, should
not be adopted, especially when, in order to do so, the de-

cisions of this court, the opinions of the law writers and
publicists, tradition, practice, and the settled policy of
the Government must be overthrown.' (158 U. S., 712.)
"Closely akin to this last characteristic method in argument on this point is that to limit or to deny to Congress the power of direct taxation, as in this case, would
mean that the nation would no longer be supreme, but
would be at the mercy of the state governments. He
concludes this point by saying:
'Hence, the decision now rendered, so far as taxing
real and personal property and invested ealth'is concetned, reduces the Government of the United States to
the paralyzed condition which existed under the Confederation, and to remove which the Constitution of the
United States was adopted.' (158 U. S. 714-715.)
"This opinion also gives the prophecy that Chief Justice White was a nationalist in political theory, believing
and advocating that the National Government should be
endowed with every power for its own functioning and
should not be dependent upon the states to supply funds

XWr

EDWARD DOUGLASS W1ITE.

the high rank he wast o take as a jurist upon that Bench.
In this first dissenting opinion he shows the characteristics as a jurist that followed him through his entire judicial career. The qustion before the court was whether
a tax by the Federal Government under the revenue law
of 1894 upon certain incomes was a direct tax and therefore repugnant to the provisions of the Constitution
requiring direct taxes to be levied according to the rule
of apportionment.
"A respect for precedent and a firm adherence to the
doctrine of stare decizis are evidehced in this first opinion.
After reviewing the history of all the cases from the

beginning of the Government, showing that direct taxes
within the meaning of the Constitution included only
taxes on land and capitation taxes, he said:
'And now, after a hundred years, after long-continued
action by other departments of the Government, and
after repeated adjudications of this court, this interpretation is overthrown, and the Congress is declared not to
have a power of taxation which may at some time, as it
has in the past, prove necessary to the very existence of
the Government.' (157 U. S., 637.)
"In this case Chief Justice White goes back of juristic
arguments and reveals his political philosophy with reference to the doctrine of precedent and the sound reasons
and principles upon which it is based. He takes the
position that the Supreme Court is intended to be a
stabilizing agency in making for certainty, uniformity,
and fixedness of judicial decision, and says further:
' Break down this belief in judicial continuity, and let
it be felt that on great constitutional questions this court
is to depart from the settled conclusions of its predecessors, and to determine them all according to the mere
opinion of those who temporarily fill its bench, and our
Constitution will, in my judgment, be bereft of value and
become a most dangerous instrument to the rights and
liberties of the people.'

EDWARD DOUGLASS WHITE.
thirty years between the Civil War and the advent of
Chief Justice White to the Bench, the nation, by leaps
and bounds, entered upon an era of industrial and commercial development unparalleled in the history of the
world. This brought new problems.
"As to the opinions written by Chief Justice White it
may be said that it would be a very inadequate and
therefore futile tribute to him to present in digest form
the points decided in a few of the more than seven hundred masterly opinions that he wrote. Certain common
characteristics run through all of these opinions. They
bear evidence of a profound legal mind, painstaking investigation, a wealth of knowledge, a statesman-like
vision to see the probable consequences resulting from
such decisions, and, above all, an intense belief in our constitutional system of government.
"In all the work of the court during this period Chief
Justice White performed his full share. The record of
his judicial labors is contained in one hundred and four
volumes of the opinions of this court, as found in volumes
153-256, inclusive. During his incumbency upon the
Supreme Bench the court disposed of, in one way or another, more than fourteen thousand cases, and rendered
opinions in more than seven thousand cases. Chief Justice White wrote about seven hundred opinions for the
court, ten concurring opinions, atd thirty-three dissenting opinions. These opinions cover the whole range of
the work of the court during this era. He was no specialist in that he confined his labors to any one particular
field of work. On the contrary, his range of work was
general and covered the main fields of litigation that
came before the court.
"The first opinion that Chief Justice White wrote on
any great constitutional question was a dissent in the
case of Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co. (157 U. S.
429), decided April 8, 1895.. This-opinion, delivered the
first year after he came upon the Bench; is a prophecy of

