CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK v. DURR.
Syllabus.

92.

local law makes for or against a joint liability.

See

Wecker v. NatioialEnameling & Stamping Co., supra, p.
183; Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Schwyhart, 227 U. S. 184, 194.
In his motion to remand the plaintiff asserted that the
removal was obtained for purposes of delay. But this
had no jurisdictional bearing, no attempt was made to
prove it and it is not relied on here.
We think the District Court rightfully sustained its
jurisdiction under the removal.
Judgment affirmed.

CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK OF CINCINNATI,
ADMINISTRATOR OF ANDERSON, v. DURR, AS
FORMER AUDITOR, ET AL.
ERROR AND CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
STATE OF OHIO.

No. 27. Argued October 7, 1921.-Decided November 7, 1921.
1. Where objection to a tax imposed under general state statutes was
limited to a claim of constitutional immunity for the particular
subject taxed, without drawing in question the validity of the statutes as construed or of the authority exercised under the State in
imposing the tax, a judgment sustaining the tax is reviewable by
certiorari but not by writ of error, under Jud. Code, ยง 237, as
amended.

P. 106.

2. A constitutional ground advanced for the first time in a petition
for rehearing, presented to a state Supreme Court and denied without reasons given, comes too late to raise a question for review by

this court. P. 106.
3. A membership in the New York Stock Exchange, although partaking of the nature of a personal privilege and assignable only with
qualifications, is a valuable property right subject to property taxation. P. 108.
4. Whether such a membership, when held by a resident of Ohio, is
subjected to taxation by the Ohio taxing laws, is a question of state
law determinable by the Supreme Court of that State. P. 108.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

257 U. S.

5. Since a membership carries peculiar and valuable privileges, not
confined to the real estate of the Exchange in New York, which
enable a nonresident member to conduct a lucrative business in
the State of his residence through other members in New York,
his membership is taxable as intangible personal property at his
domicile. P. 108. Louisville & Jeffersonville Ferry Co. v. Kentucky, 188 U. S. 385, distinguished.
6. Taxation by two States upon identical or closely related property
interests falling within the jurisdiction of both is not forbidden by
the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 109.
7. A discrimination, in imposing a tax in Ohio on a membership in
the New York Stock Exchange while exempting memberships in a
local stock exchange, which may have been due to mere accident
or negligence of subordinate officials, or have been based upon
some fair reason, the presumption of which was not rebutted, held
not to render the tax invalid under the Equal Protection Clause.
P. 109.
8. The fact that non-resident members of the New York Stock Exchange may deal in its securities through other members for less
commissions than are charged non-members, affords a reasonable
ground for taxing the privilege in the one case and not in the
other. P. 110.
9. A tax on a membership in the New York Stock Exchange employed by an Ohio broker in executing orders for his Ohio clients
through the exchange in New York, held not an unconstitutional
burden on interstate commerce. P. 110.
100 Oh. St. 251, affirmed.
IbvImw of a judgment of the Supreme Court of Ohio
sustaining a tax in a suit brought by Anderson to enjoin
its enforcement.
Mr. Murray Seasongood for plaintiff in error and petitioner.
A voluntary association like this has no technical name
or place in the law. Each member does his own business
and is not interested in the business done by any other
member. The Exchange, as such, does no business; there
are no profits or losse's to be divided. Although the Exchange owns property, the ownership is a mere incident

CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK v. DURR.
99.

101

Argument for Plaintiff in Erior.

and not the main object of the association. The member
has no severable property interest in it, nor a right to any
proportionate part on withdrawing. Substantially, the
whole property of the association is the Exchange real
estate, consisting of its land and the building in New
York City. The title to this land and building is in a
New York corporation, of which the entire capital stock
is beneficially owned by the Exchange. This method of
holding the real estate is adopted in order to avoid difficulty of conveying the land.
A seat or membership is a species of incorporeal property, a personal, individual right to exercise a certain
calling in a certain place, but without the attributes of
descendibility or assignability characteristic of other
species of property. It cannot be attached or seized on
execution, being, in substance, a mere license to buy and
sell.
A privilege inseparably connected with real estate
should be regarded, in taxation statutes, as in the nature
of real estate. ยง 5322, Ohio Code.
The membership is exactly analogous to the ferry franchise considered in Louisville & Jeffersonville Ferry Co. v.
Kentucky, 188 U. S. 385. See Currier v. Studley, 159
Mass. 17, 24.
Whether a personal right to go on certain real estate at
certain hours only and transact there, either in person or
by others having the same right, business in a limited
class of securities, subject to rules prescribed by the governing body of the owners of the real estate, is technically
an easement, a franchise, a private right of way or way in
gross, the substantial rights, by whatever name called, are
inseparably connected with real estate, just as much as
was the ferry right in the Jeffersonville Ferry Case. Crops
growing in the ground are personal property and leases for
years are things personal or chattels real, yet they certainly relate to real estate. So of an estate pur autre vie.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

257 U. S.

Fixtures, title deeds, family portraits, money, slaves and
other- heirlooms are personal property, but were treated
sometimes as realty. 2 Bouvier, 14th ed., 414. The
method of conveyance does not determine the essence of
the thing. Immovables and movables were the divisions
in the civil law of what we call real and personal property.
Ibid.
Rogers v. Hennepin County, 240 U. S. 184, and Goetzman v. Minnesota Tax Commission, 136 Minn. 260, are
conclusive that what gives a membership value is the
right, exercisable where the Exchange is located and that
that, therefore, fixes the situs for taxation. See Thompson v. Adams, 93 Pa. St. 55; Pancoast v. Gowen, 93 Pa.
St. 66; Pagev. Edmunds, 187 U. S. 596; Barclay v. Smith,
107 111. 349; Lowenberg v. Greenebaum, 99 Cal. 162; London & Canada Loan, etc. v. Morphy, 10 Ont. Rep. 86;
Ketcham v. Provost, 141 N. Y. S. 437; Weston v. Ives, 97
N. Y. 222; Lemmon v. Feitner, 167 N. Y. 1; Baltimore v.
Johnson, 96 Md. 767; San Franciscov. Anderson, 103 Cal.
69; Caldicott v. Griffiths, 8 Exch. 898; Belton v. Hatch,
109 N. Y. 593; White v. Brownell, 4 Abb. Pr., N. S., 162;
s. c. 3 Abb. Pr., N. S., 324; In re Hurlbutt Hatch & Co.,
135 Fed. 504; In re Stringer, 253 Fed. 352.
These cases recognize that a membership in the Exchange is unquestionably property, but they also recognize that it is unique and cannot be realized on in the
way that ordinary real or personal property is subjected
to seizure,-all rights must be worked out through the
New York Stock Exchange and subject to its constitution
and conditions. These cases all tend to show that the
situs of the property is where the Exchange is located and
not elsewhere. Cf. Standard Gas Power Co. of Georgia
v. Standard Gas Power Co. of Delaware, 224 Fed. 990;
Murphy v. Ford Motor Co., 241 Fed. 134.
While this privilege is not granted by the State of New
York, as is the franchise of a New York corporation, the

CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK v. DURR.
99.

103

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

right conferred by the Committee on Admissions is to do
business in New York, just as much as if the right had
been conferred by the State of New York. It is immaterial whether the member does this business in person, or
through others on a basis more favorable than such others
would do the business for non-members. The business, in
either case, is transacted on the floor of the Exchange in
New York City. If no business is done, no income is
earned. Nor has plaintiff in error any muniment of title
in Ohio, or elsewhere.
In the case of stocks, the owner has power at his domicile to effect a sale or pledge, to will them specifically,
to receive, at his domicile, earnings ofothe corporation, and
he has a proportionate share of the corporate assets. He
has a stock certificate, which is a negotiable document of
title, personal property, in many States, subject to seizure
by execution.
In the case of bonds, the owner has a right to a definite
income, at his domicile, without the necessity of effort on
his part to produce such income. Even if the bond is not
kept in the State of his domicile, it is readily removable
thereto, at any time; whereupon a complete enjoyment of
it there will be in the owner. In the case of money or
bank accounts, the same is true. The owner is in complete control and can transfer the account from one State
to another by signing his name to a check.
But, in the case at bar, plaintiff, to acquire his membership, paid $60,000 in 1911. As there are 1,100 members
and less than $6,000,000 of assets, it is obvious the plaintiff did not pay $60,000 to get an interest in these assets,
since his proportionate share would be less than $5,500
and since the Exchange has not ufade and does not make
any distrilution of assets to members.
It is contended by us that a privilege inseparably connected with real property is in the nature of real property
for taxation purposes. If this membership is to be classed

104

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

257 U. S.

as intangible personal property, it is not such as may be
taxed at the State of domicile, as other intangible property may be, because this intangible right has a permanent situs in New York. Cream of Wheat Co. v. Grand
Forks, 253 U. S. 325.
The plaintiff is taxed because of a mere incident, on the
whole value of his membership, the substantial value of
which, as the court concedes, is doing business in another
State, which may not be taxed. This is a mere" quibble "
(Selliger v. Kentucky, 213 U. S. 200, 206), analogous to
taxing a corporation doing both intrastate and interstate
business on its intrastate business, so that taxation of the
interstate business done will also be included. The decisions of this court have forbidden that. International
Paper Co. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 135; Delaware,
Lackawanna & Western R. 1. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 198
U. S. 341.
The court below was in error in assuming that the "incident" of division of commissions is business done in
Ohio. A member in Ohio divides the fixed commission
earned for transacting business in New York with the
member in New York transacting the business. A nonmember in Ohio may not divide the commission earned
by his correspondent in transacting the business, but he
can have the business transacted, nvertheless, and earn
a commission. In neither case does the Ohio broker execute transactions in Ohio. That is impossible. Both
send on orders, to be executed by a member of the Exchange in New York. The orders cannot be executed
except on the floor of the Exchange.
An Ohio citizen may own real estate in New York and
enjoy increased credit from general knowledge of his ownership of it. He may derive rents in Ohio from such real
estate, but, if such rents were taxable, surely that would
not permit taxation by Ohio of the real estate. Whatever
fraction of commission the member earns from orders

CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK v. DURR.
99.

105

Argmnent for Plaintiff in Error.

forwarded to New York is taxed as money or credits in
Ohio. The fact that he earns such fractions does not justify taxing his membership in the New York Exchange,
any more than it would justify taxing real estate he might
own in New York or justify taxing a non-member broker
on the membership in the New York Exchange of the
broker who executes his orders.
Plaintiff, subjected to unreasonable, discriminatory and
multiple taxation, is deprived of the equal protection of
the laws.
The tax sought to be levied is a direct burden on interstate commerce. Plaintiff transacted no business in
Ohio by virtue of his membership in the Exchange.
Securities listed on that Exchange must be bought and
sold there and not elsewhere, under penalty of expulsion
for non-compliance with the rule requiring this. The
Ohio tax is said to be a property tax. Applied, however,
to the privilege here in question, it is a tax levied on the
privilege, and the privilege, if any business is done in
Ohio, is to do only interstate commerce. Union Tank
Line Co. v. Wright, 249 U. S. 275.
The decision of the court below denied plaintiff due
process of law and the equal protection of the laws. It
amounted to so gross a mistake as not to be possible, if
well recognized rules of decision and precedents had been
followed. Chicago Life Insurance Co. v. Cherry, 244 U. S.
25, 30. Again, the settled course of construction of the
Ohio taxing statutes had become a rule of property conferring, for the years preceding, immunity from taxation
on this privilege, within the spirit of Gelpeke v. Dubuque,
1 Wall. 175; Louisianav. Pilsbury, 105 U. S. 278; Muhlker v. New York & Harlem R. R. Co., 197 U. S. 544; Milwaukee Electric Ry. Co. v. Milwaukee, 252 U. S. 100;
Chisholm v. Shields, 67 Oh. St. '74.
Mr. Charles S. Bell, with whom Mr. Louis H. Capelle
was on the brief, for defendants in error and respondents.

106

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE

257 U. S.

PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

A suit for injunction brought in a state court by Anderson against Durr, then Auditor, and Cooper, then Treasurer, of Hamilton County, Ohio, raised the question
whether a certain property tax imposed under authority
of the State of Ohio upon plaintiff, a resident of that
State, by reason of his owning a membership-figuratively
termed a "seat "-in the New York Stock Exchange, infringed his rights under the commerce clause of the Constitution of the 'United States or the "due process of
law" or "equal protection" provisions of the Fourteenth
Amendment. His assault upon the tax was sustained by
the court of first instance (20 Ohio N. P., N. S., 538), but
overruled by the Court of Appeals (29 0. C. A. 465), and
finally by the Supreme Court of the State (100 Ohio St.
251). Until the decision of the latter court the federal
right had been asserted merely as a claim of immunity
from the tax under the constitutional provisions referred
to, without drawing in question the validity of any statute
of, or authority exercised under the State on the ground
of their being repugnant to those provisions. After the
final decision, in an application to the Supreme Court for
a rehearing, plaintiff for the first time asserted that the
decision, if adhered to, rendered the Ohio taxation statutes
invalid because of such repugnance. This application was
denied without reasons given, and hence must be regarded
as having come too late to raise any question for review by
this court. Loeber v. Schroeder,149 U. S. 580, 585; Fullerton v. Texas, 196 U. S. 192, 193; CorkranOil Co. v. Arnaudet, 199 U. S. 182, 193. Therefore a writ of error, allowed
by the chief justice of the Supreme Court, must be. dismissed because not the proper mode of review under
ยง 237 Judicial Code, as afnended by Act of September 6,
1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726. But an application for the allowance of a writ of certiorari, made to this court under

CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK v. DURR.
99.

107

Opinion of the Court.

the same section, consideration of which was postponed
until the hearing on the writ of error, will be granted, and
the case determined thereunder.
The essential facts are as follows: Plaintiff holds a
membership or seat in the New York Stock Exchange for
which he paid $60,000, and which carries valuable privileges and has a market value for the purposes of sale. The
Exchange is not a corporation or stock company, but a
voluntary association consisting of 1100 members, governed by its own constitution, by-laws and rules, and
holding the beneficial ownership of the entire capital
stock of a New York corporation which owns the building
in which the business of the Exchange is transacted, with
the land upon which it stands, situated in the City of
New York and having a value in excess of $5,000,000. A
member has the privilege of transacting a brokerage business in securities listed upon the Exchange, but may personally buy or sell only in the Exchange building. Membership is evidenced merely by a letter from the secretary
of the Exchange notifying the recipient that he has been
elected to membership. Admissions to membership are
made on the vote of the Committee on Admissions. Membership may be transferred only upon approval of the
transfer by the committee, and the proceeds are applied
first to pay charges and claims against the retiring member arising under the rules of the Exchange, any surplus
being paid to him. On the death of a member, his membership is subject to be disposed of by the committee; but
his widow and descendants are entitled to certain payments out of a fund known as the "Gratuity Fund." In
the business of brokers in stocks and bonds a differentiation is made between members of the Exchange and nonmembers, in that business is transacted by members on
account of other members at a commission. materially less
than that charged to non-members. A firm having as a
general partner a member of the Exchange is entitled to

108

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court..

257 U. S.

have its business transacted at the rates prescribed for
members.
That a membership held by a resident of the State of
Ohio in the Exchange is a valuable property right, intangible in its nature but of so substantial a character as
to be a proper subject of property taxation, is too plain
for discussion. That such a membership, although partaking of the nature of a personal privilege and assignable
only with qualifications, is property within the meaning
of the bankrupt laws, has repeatedly been held by this
court. Hyde v. Woods, 94 U. S. 523, 524-525; Sparhawk v.
Yerkes, 142 U. S. 1, 12; Page v. Edmunds, 187 U. S. 596,
601. Whether it is subjected to taxation by the taxing
laws of Ohio, is a question of state law, answered in the
affirmative by the court of last resort of that State, by
whose decision upon this point we are controlled. Clement National Bank v. Vermont, 231 U. S. 120, 134.
The chief contention here is based upon the due process
of law provision of the Fourteenth Amendment: it being
insisted that the privilege of membership in the Exchange
is so inseparably connected with specific real estate in
New York that its taxable situs must be regarded as not
within the jurisdiction of the State of Ohio. Louisville &
Jeffersonville Ferry Co. v. Kentucky, 188 U. S. 385, is
cited. It is very clear, however, as the Supreme Court
held, that the valuable privilege of such membership is
not confined to the real estate of the Stock Exchange;
that a member has a contractual right to have the association conducted in accordance with its rules and regulations, and, incidentally, has the right to deal through
other members on certain fixed percentages and methods
of division of commissions; that this right to secure the
services of other members and to "split commissions" is
a valuable right by which plaintiff in Cincinnati may
properly hold himself out as a member entitled to the
privileges of the Exchange, denied to non-members; and

CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK v. DURR.
99.

109

Opinion of the Court.

that thus he is enabled to conduct from and in his Cincinnati office a lucrative business through other members
in New York. The court held, and was warranted in
holding, that the membership is personal property, and
being without fixed situs has a taxable situs at the domicile of the owner. Mobilia sequuntur personam. See
Union Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S.
194, 205. The asserted analogy to Louisville & Jeffersonville Ferry Co. v. Kentucky, supra, cannot be accepted.
That decision related to a public franchise arising out of
legislative grant, held to be an incorporeal hereditament
in the nature of real property and to have no taxable situs
outside the granting State. It did not involve the taxation
of intangible personal property. See Hawley v. Malden,
232 U. S. 1, 11; Cream of Wheat Co. v. Grand Forks, 253
U. S. 325, 328.
Nor is plaintiff's case stronger if we assume that the
membership privileges exercisable locally in New York
enable that State to tax them even as against a resident of
Ohio. (See Rogers v. Hennepin County, 240 U. S. 184,
191.) Exemption from double taxation by one and the
same State is not guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment (St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 235
U. S. 350, 367-368); much less is taxation by two States
upon identical or closely related property interests falling
within the jurisdiction of both, forbidden. Kidd v. Alabama, 188 U. S. 730, 732; Hawley v. Malden, 232 U. S. 1,
13; Fidelity & Columbia Trust Co. v. Louisville, 245 U. S.
54, 58.
That plaintiff is denied the equal protection of the laws,
within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment, cannot be successfully maintained upon the record before us.
The argument is that other brokers in the same city are
not taxed upon. the value of their memberships in the
local stock exchange, nor upon the privilege of doing business in New York Stock Exchange securities. As to the

OCTOBER TERM. 1921.
Holmes, Van Devanter and McReynolds, JJ., doubting. 257 U. S.

local exchange memberships, it may be that the failure
to tax them is but accidental or due to some negligence
of subordinate officers, and is not properly to be regarded
as the act of the State. If it be state action, there is a presumption that some fair reason exists to support the exemption, not applicable to a membership in the New York
Exchange, and plaintiff has shown nothing to overcome
the presumption. As to the privilege referred to, it already has been shown that the rights incident to plaintiff's
property interest give him pecuniary advantages over
others in the same business. Manifestly this furnishes a
reasonable ground for taxing him upon the property right,
although others enjoying lesser privileges because of not
having it may remain untaxed.
The contention that the tax constitutes a direct burden
upon interstate commerce is groundless. Ordinary property taxation imposed upon property employed in interstate commerce does not amount to an unconstitutional
burden upon the commerce itself. Pullman's Palace Car
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18, 23; Cleveland, &c. Ry.
Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 439, 445; Postal Telegraph Cable
Co. v. Adams, 155 U. S. 688, 700.
Writ of error dismissed.
Wr.it of certiorarigranted.
Judgment affirmed.

MR. JusTcE HoLMEs.
The question whether a seat in the New York Stock
Exchange is taxable in Ohio consistently with the principles established by this Court seems to me more difficult
than it does to my brethren. All rights are intangible
personal relations between the subject and the object of
them created by law. But it is established that it is not
enough that the subject, the owner of the right, is within
the power of the taxing State. He cannot be taxed for
land situated elsewhere, and the same is true of personal

ALABAMA &c. RY. CO. v. JOURNEY
99.

Syllabus.

property permanently out of the jurisdiction. It does not
matter, I take it, whether the interest is legal or egtuitable,
or what the machinery by which it is reached, but the
question is whether the object of the right is so local in
its foundation and prime meaning that it should stand
like an interest in land. If left to myself I should have
thought that the foundation and substance of the plaintiff's right was the right of himself and his associates personally to enter the New York Stock Exchange building
and to do business there. I should have thought that
all the rest was incidental to that and that that on its face
was localized in New York. If so, it does not matter
whether it is real or personal property or that it adds to
the owner's credit and facilities in Ohio. The same would.
be true of a great estate in New York land.

As my brothers VAN DEVANTER and McREYxoLDS share
the same doubts it has seemed to us proper that they
should be expressed.
ALABAMA & VICKSBURG RAILWAY COMPANY
ET AL. v. JOURNEY.
ERROR AND

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TZZ
STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 55. Argued October 21, 1921.-Decided November 7, 1921.
1. The order of the Director General of Railroads, prescribing that
all suits against carriers while under federal control must be
brought in the county or district where the plaintiff resided at the
time of the accrual of the cause of action or in the county or district where the cause of action arose, was a reasonable exercise of
the power conferred by Congress on the President, through the
Federal Control Act. P. 114. Missouri Pacific R. R. Co. v. Ault,

256 U. S. 554.
2. So held, where the action was against the railroad company, in a
state court, on a cause which arose before federal control.
122 Miss. 742, reversed.

