82

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

heads of the Departments the right to prescribe regulations, not inconsistent with law, for the government of
their respective departments, the conduct of its officers
and clerks, the distribution and performance of its business, and the custody, use, and preservation of the records,
papers, and property appertaining to it. Moreover, the
action of the Assistant Secretary in this case was reduced
to writing and became a part of the archives of the Department. It does not appear to have been modified, nor in
any way changed by the Secretary. There is nothing in
the record to show that the action of the Assistant Secretary did not have the full sanction and approval of the
Secretary. Under such circumstances the act of the
Assistant Secretary must be presumed to be within
the scope of the authority which the Secretary conferred
upon his Assistant. McCollum v. United States, 17 Ct.
Clms. 92.
We are of opinion that after the order restoring Norris
for the purpose of a hearing by creating a place for him
and abolishing the office after the hearing there can be no
recovery. It follows that the judgment of the Court of
Claims must be
Affirmed.

EBERLEIN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 12. Argued October 5, 1921.-Decided November 7, 1921.
E, hafing been removed by the Secretary of the Treasury from a
place in the customs service after due hearing upon charges, was
later reinstated by the same authority, pursuant to an order of
the President based on further investigation and findings that the
charges were not just.
Held: (1) That the removal was an act of discretion not subject to
revision by the court. P. 84.

EBERLEIN v. UNITED STATES.
82.

Opinion of the Court.

(2) That the power of appointment and removal in the case was
constitutionally lodged in the Secretary of the Treasury; the
President's order could not and was not intended to operate as a
reinstatement, but merely restored E's eligibility to appointment.

P. 84.
(3) E had no claim to the salary between the dates of his removal
and his reinstatement by the Secretary.

53 Ct. Cams. 466, affirmed.
APAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims, in an
action to recover salary -accruing between the dates of
appellants removal from an office and-his reinstatement.
See also, ante, 71, 77.
Mr. William E. Russell, with whom Mr. L,. T. Michener
and Mr. P. G. Michener were on the briefs, for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Riter, Mr. Assistant
Attorney General Davis and Mr. William D. Harris,for
the United States, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
In this case the plaintiff, who was a United States Storekeeper in the customs service at the port of New York,
brought suit in the Court of Claims to recover from the
United States the sum of $4,164.44, that being the salary
of the office from the date of his removal therefrom to the
date of his reinstatement. The Court of Claims decided
against him. 53 Ct. CIms. 466. On May 9, 1910, he was
suspended without pay pending an investigation of
written charges preferred against him. He had a hearing
upon his answer to the charges, and on May 26, 1910, was
removed from office. The charges involved the acceptance of bribes in the matter of underweighing cargoes of
sugar, and thereby defrauding the Government. In May,
1912, the Attorney General reinvestigated claimant's record, and reported that in his judgment the charges were

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

not sustained, and the Surveyor of the port made a similar
report. On December 3, 1912, the President of the United
States by an executive order of that date in pursuance of
further investigation directed the reinstatement of the
plaintiff. On December 16, 1912, he was reinstated.
There can be no question from the findings in this case
that the plaintiff had the benefit of a hearing according
to the regulations then in force. The Court of Claims in
its opinion stated that the subsequent investigation established his innocence of the- charges made against him.
But the things required by law and regulations, were done,
and the discretion of the authorized officers was exercised
as required by law. It is settled that in such cases the
action of executive officers is not subject to revision in the
courts. Keim v. United States, 177 U. S. 290.
The order of the President could not have the effect of
reinstating the plaintiff to the office from which he was
removed. The power of appointment and removal was
in the Secretary of the Treasury. It was within the power
of Congress to confer this authority on the Secretary.
Burnap v. United States, 252 U. S. 512.
The President's order, while reciting the wrong which
had been done to the plaintiff, could have no more effect
than to reinstate him to eligibility for reappointment in
the Government service. Indeed, such was found to be
the import of the order itself, and fairly so. It provides
that Eberlein may be reinstated in any appropriate classified position in the Customs Service in New York, without regard to the length of time he has been separated
from the service. That was the purpose of the order, although it goes on to say, doubtless in fairness to Eberlein,
that he was separated from the service on May 26, 1910,
and charged with having accepted money from importers
for underweighing merchandise; that upon rehearing, the
Surveyor of Customs of New York was of the opinion that

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. WEBER.
82.

Statement of the Case.

the charges had not been sustained, and that the Attorney
General recommended that the plaintiff be restored to the
office from which he had been dismissed. It is apparent
that the President's order was intended to have no more
effect than to restore him to eligibility for alpointment.
Such was the view of the Court of Claims, and we find no
error in its judgment.
Affirmed.
PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY v.
WEBER, SURVIVING PARTNER OF JACOBY
AND WEBER, COPARTNERS, TRADING UNDER
THE FIRM NAME OF W. F. JACOBY & COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.

No. 210. Argued October 13, 1921.-Decided November7, 1921.

1. In an action to enforce reparation awarded a shipper by the Interstate Commerce Commission as damages resulting from unfair
practices of the defendant carrier in the distribution of coal cars,
the findings and order of the Commission are prima facie evidence
of the facts therein stated. P. 90.
2. In such an action the award, though its amount appear by the
Commission's own record to have been calculated upon an erroneous basis, (see s. c. 242 U. S. 89,) may be sustained by evidence before the Commission, supplemented at the trial, tending to prove
that damages equal to the award resulted from the unfair practices
condemned by the Commission, as shown by its report. P. 91.
269 Fed. Rep. 111, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals

which affirmed a judgment for damages entered upon a
verdict in the District Court, in an action to enforce a
reparation order of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
See s. c. 242 U. S. 89.

