PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. WEBER.
82.

Statement of the Case.

the charges had not been sustained, and that the Attorney
General recommended that the plaintiff be restored to the
office from which he had been dismissed. It is apparent
that the President's order was intended to have no more
effect than to restore him to eligibility for alpointment.
Such was the view of the Court of Claims, and we find no
error in its judgment.
Affirmed.
PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY v.
WEBER, SURVIVING PARTNER OF JACOBY
AND WEBER, COPARTNERS, TRADING UNDER
THE FIRM NAME OF W. F. JACOBY & COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.

No. 210. Argued October 13, 1921.-Decided November7, 1921.

1. In an action to enforce reparation awarded a shipper by the Interstate Commerce Commission as damages resulting from unfair
practices of the defendant carrier in the distribution of coal cars,
the findings and order of the Commission are prima facie evidence
of the facts therein stated. P. 90.
2. In such an action the award, though its amount appear by the
Commission's own record to have been calculated upon an erroneous basis, (see s. c. 242 U. S. 89,) may be sustained by evidence before the Commission, supplemented at the trial, tending to prove
that damages equal to the award resulted from the unfair practices
condemned by the Commission, as shown by its report. P. 91.
269 Fed. Rep. 111, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals

which affirmed a judgment for damages entered upon a
verdict in the District Court, in an action to enforce a
reparation order of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
See s. c. 242 U. S. 89.

86

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

Mr. Henry Wolf Bikli, with whom Mr.FredericD. McKenney and Mr. FrancisL Gowen were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. William A. Glasgow, Jr., for defendant in error.
MR.JusTic DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This cause has been the subject of much and long continued controversy. This is its third appearance in this
court. The previous history of the litigation is set out in
242 U. S. 89. The action is based upon a reparation order
made by the Interstate Commerce Commission in favor
of Jacoby & Company. A recovery was had in the sum
awarded by the Commission, with interest. At the first
trial plaintiffs did not introduce the record of the testimony before che Commission. The defendant railroad
company introduced testimony tending to show that the
Commission in making its award of damages had used a
table, attached as exhibit 10 to the record of the case,
showing a discrimination of the railroad company against

the plaintiffs in the distribution of coal cars in times of
shortage, and produced a witness who testified that the
effect of the use of the percentages in that table as the
basis of awarding damages by the Commission was to give
plaintiffs the undue preference in the distribution of coal
cars which favored shippers had received. That being so,
this court held that the recovery of a sum thus arrived at
would defeat the purpose of the act to place shippers on
a basis of equality. For the refusal of the trial court to
give a charge based'upon such use of the table the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, affirming that of the District Court, was reversed,
and the cause remanded for a new trial. The second trial
n he District Court resulted in a verdict and judgment
for the plaintiffs in the sum awarded by the Commission
with interest. 263 Fed. 945. That judgment was affirmed

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. WEBER.
85.

Opinion of the Court.

by the Circuit Court of Appeals, 269 Fed. 111, and the
case is again here.
We need not repeat the discussion concerning distribution of cars in times of shortage which was held to result
in undue advantage. See 242 U. S. supra, pp. 90, 91;
Hillsdaie Coal & Coke Co. v. PennsylvaniaR. R. Co., 19
I. C. C. 362, 363, 364.
At the last trial the testimony before the Commission
was put in evidence, with some additional testimony tending to show that plaintiffs had been discriminated against
because of the special allotment to the Berwind-White
Company of five hundred cars daily; and the sale to it,
and to other companies, of a large number of cars in times
of car shortage. There was evidence tending to show that
but for these discriminations the plaintiffs would have
received a sufficient number of cars to furnish them with
all they needed during the periods complained of.
The Commission in the report condemned the practice
of giving to the Berwind-White Coal Company five hundred cars daily by special allotment, and the selling o)f the
company's own cars during the same period to favored
shippers, thereby diminishing its capacity to supply the
coal car requirements of other coal companies along its
line.
When the Commission came to assess damages it allowed the plaintiffs $21,094.39 with interest from June 28,
1907. The order on which this award was made is set
forth in 242 U. S. supra. Upon the new trial, with the
additional testimony and the whole record of the Commission introduced in evidence, the judge, after charging the
jury that there might be a recovery if the discriminations
alleged and proved resulted in damages in the sum
awarded by the Commission, charged:
"'

If you should find that the conclusion of the Interstate

Commerce Commission that the plaintiff in the year ending April 1, 1905, should have received cars equal in

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

capacity to 59.9 per cent. of the aggregate of their mine's
daily rating, and in the period between April 1 and Octbber 18, 1905, cars equal in capacity to 59.6 per cent. of
the aggregate of their mine's daily rating-if you should
find that that conclusion was reached or arrived at because of the evidence presented by the plaintiff that the
aggregate of the cars placed by the defendant at certain
mines which had been selected for the purpose of comparison from those comprised in the region in which the
plaintiff's mine was located, had been equal in the earlier
period to 59.9 per cent. and in the later period to 59.6
per cent. of the aggregate ratings of these selected mines,
[These being the percentages of cars given to preferred
companies as shown in Exhibit 10.] for the basis of the
Commission's conclusion, then the award was an erroneous one, aiid under those circumstances the finding of the
Commission would lose its effect as prima facie evidence,
and you would only be justified in finding for the plaintiff
if you find that from the other evidence offered before the
Commission, either of discrimination through distribution
to favored shippers in the Tyrone region or through withholding cars from the Tyrone region, which should have
been distributed there, the Commission was justified in
arriving at that conclusion. If you find that the Commission was justified in arriving at that conclusion, or are
satisfied from that evidence, and that evidence is reinforced by further evidence that the plaintiff has offered
in the case, then you would be justified in finding a verdict in favor of the plaintiff, and assessing damages at the
amount found by the Commission.
"If, however, you should find that that was an erroneous finding, then it would be your duty to find to what
extent the plaintiff was damaged, I mean in case you find
that the plaintiff was actually damaged you would have
to find to what extent the plaintiff was actually damaged.
If you leave out the evidence before the Commission the

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. WEBER.
85.

Opinion of the Court.

Court is unable to say that there is any other evidence
standing alone which would be sufficient, but the evidence
which was before the Commission has all been offered before you, and some .additional testimony. The proper
basis of damages in that case, if the Commission has not
reached the proper basis, would be upon the theory set out
in the Commission's report, but not based on a comparison between what the favored shippers received and what
the plaintiff received.
"If the plaintiff is entitled to recover and has suffered
damages, the measure of damages would be the loss in
operating, upon the coal that was actually shipped,
through discrimination in favor of other shippers, together with the profits it would have made on the coal
they would have been able to ship. The question as to
what coal they would have been able to ship is a question
for you gentlemen to decide under the evidence in this
case. You have had the schedules laid before you, counsel have argued the case to you and explained the grounds
on which they respectively base their demand on the one
side and the defense on the other, and the questions of
fact are for your determination. The defendant has
offered in evidence, and has shown you these facts, in regard to the 59.9 per cent. and the 59.6 per cent., and as I
have already instructed you, if you find the Commission's
finding was based on that, then the Commission's finding
as to the amount of damages suffered should not be considered by the jury, but the jury will be obliged independently, if they can do so, to arrive at a proper amount
of damages.
"If the jury do not believe that the plaintiffs suffered
any damages, or do not believe that they were discriminated against in favor of other shippers, either by the distribution of cars that were sent into this region or by the
failure of the railroad company to send cars to the Tyrone
region which should have been distributed there, then it

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

would be your duty to find a verdict in favor of the defendant."
As there was substantial testimony in the record to support the finding of the Commission inawarding damages
in a sum at least equal to the amount assessed by it, the
principal question to be decided is: May a plaintiff recover in such circumstances in a suit based upon a reparation order of the Interstate Commerce Commission
when there is testimony fairly tending to show that recovery was justified because of unfair practices in the distribution of coal cars in times of shortage, which practices,
as its report shows, were condemned by the Commission,
although it may appear that the sum awarded by the
Commission was actually based upon an erroneous calculation?
In determining.the rule to govern this situation we must
bear in mind that the Commission is empowered to act
upon questions of unfair practices and discrimination.
PennsylvaniaR. R. Co. v. Clark Coal Co., 238 U. S. 456,
and the previous cases in this court cited at p. 469. While
this is true, when an action is brought upon a reparation
order of the Commission, as it may be under ยง 16 of the
Act to Regulate Commerce, its findings and order are
prima facie evidence of the facts therein stated. Meeker
v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 236 U. S. 412; Second Meeker
Case, 236 U. S. 434; Mills v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 238
U. S. 473. These cases have disposed of the question of
the right of the defendant to attack the prima facie value
of the award, and have dealt with the nature of the award
of the Commission in view of the statutory provisions as
to its character.
That the Commission used a wrong basis in awarding
damages, now that the whole iecord is before us, admits
of no doubt. Indeed, the coincidence in the award made
and the use of the percentage table shown in Exhibit No.
10 is difficult to account for except upon the basis pointed

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. WEBER.
85.

Opinion of the Court.

out by the witness introduced. by the defendant, whose
testimony was made the basis of the request to charge, the
refusal of which led to the reversal of the judgment in
242 U. S. supra.
The defendant in error argues that the Commission
could not have used this table because it covers a different
period of operation as evidenced by the number of days
shown than the Commission found to have been the period
covered by the operation of the plaintiffs' mine. Nevertheless, the coincidence of percentage and award remains,
and the conclusion is inescapable that the Commission in
determining the sum awarded used percentages which had
the effect of placing the plaintiffs on a basis of equality
with the favored companies. On the other hand, there is
testimony tending to show that had the cars been distributed upon a basis of general equality approved by the
Commission, and without resort to practices condemned
by it, there would have been cars enough to have furnished plaintiffs with a sufficient number to meet their
trade and requirements during the period in question.
Under the circumstances here shown, when the case is
fairly and fully submitted, as it was in the charge of the
judge to the jury, giving a correct basis upon which there
might be a recovery of damages, and there is testimony
tending to show damages in at least the sum awarded by
the Commission, there is no prejudicial error because of
the erroneous calculation of the Commission which was
the basis of its award.
Other questions are argued, but they are disposed of
satisfactorily in the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals (269 Fed. supra), and in the opinion of the trial
judge upon the motion for a new trial (263 Fed. upra).
It follows that the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals must be
Affirmed.

