10

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

diction to award such restitution. See Minneapolis, St.
Paul & Sault Ste. Marie Ry. Co. v. Merrick Co., 254 U. S.

376.
In truth the new suit, in so far as it may purport to
bear at all upon the proceedings against which maxdamus
was sought, is not within the leave reserved in the "without prejudice" provision, indeed is in the nature of a bill
of review, although leave to file such a bill was asked of
us pending appeal in the former suit and refused for reasons stated in 250 U. S. 261-262. In any aspect, neither
the pendency of the new suit, nor the granting of a restraining order therein, constitutes the least reason for
granting the rehearing asked for.
Other points are suggested, but they are without substance. The fact, if it be a fact as alleged, that the bond
given in the former suit is not sufficient in amount to
cover the aggregate overcharges collected by petitioner
pendente lite in excess of the ordinance rate, manifestly
raises no question about the jurisdiction of the District
Court to award restitution.
Rehearing denied.
YAZOO & MISSISSIPPI VALLEY RAILROAD COMPANY 2ET AL. v. CITY OF CLARKSDALE.
ERROR AND CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 15. Argued October 6, 1921.-Decided November 7, 1921.
1. A judgment of a state court denying the validity of a title
claimed under an execution sale based upon a federal court judgment, because of supposed irregularities in the marshal's attempted
exercise of his authority to sell, the authority itself not having
been drawn in question, is reviewable by certiorari and not by writ
of error, under Jud. Code, § 237, as amended. P. 15.
2. The application of state laws to a marshal's sale of property under
a common-law execution issued on praecipe from a federal court,

YAZOO & M. V. R. R. CO. v. CLARKSDALE.
10.

11

Syllabus.

is governed by the conformity provisions of Rev. Stats., §§ 914,
916. P. 18.
3. The provisions of the Act of March 3, 1893, e.225, 27 Stat. 751,
relative to the place of sale, apply only to judicial sales made
under order or decree and requiring confirmation by the court for
their validity. P. 18.
4. An assignment of error held sufficient to submit to the court below
the question whether a marshal's sale was valid under Rev. Stats.,
§ 916. P. 19.
5. Under Rev. Stats., § 916, giving to the party who has recovered
judgment in a federal court " similar remedies * * * by execution * * * as are now provided in like causes by the laws of
the State in which such court is held, or by any such laws hereafter
enacted which may be adopted by general rules of any such circuit
or district court," the state law applicable is that which was in
force when the act of which § 916 was a part was originally enacted,
viz, June 1, 1872, in the absence of general rules adopting later
state law. P. 19.
6. Under § 849 of the Mississippi Code of 1871, which, prior to
amendment by § 3467 of the Code of 1892, provided that shares or
interests in any corporation, as well as banknotes or evidences of
debt circulating as money, might be taken and sold under an execution in the same manner as. goods and chattels, or applied to the
payment of the execution, and required the custodian of the corporate books to give the levying officer a certificate of the number
of shares or amount of interest held by the defendant in the company, and declared that the purchaser of such shares or interest at
the execution sale should become the owner thereof in the same
manner as if such shares or interest had been regularly assigned
to him by the defendant,-a certificate of shares issued to a judgment debtor and found in the custody of his agent or trustee was
a proper subject of levy and sale. P. 20.
7. Under the laws of Mississippi, a venditioni exponas is not necessary to enable the officer to proceed with the sale of property
taken under a fieri facim of which the return day has not gone by;
and, where the return on the latter writ shows due levy and sale,
references therein to a ,venditioni exponas may be treated as
surplusage. P. 22.
8. Under Rev. Stats., § 914, which requires that proceedings in
common-law cases in the federal courts shall conform to those of
state courts " as near as may be," and § 916, which gives the judg-

12

OC'O13I

TmkM, 1921.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

257 U. S.

ment creditor remedies on common-law executions "similar" to
those of the state court, an execution sale of personal property
which under the state law (Miss. Code, 1871) must be made at
the court house of the county may be made at the court house of
the United States where the judgment was entered and execution
issued. P. 22. Smith v. Cockrill, 6 Wall. 756, and/'* v. Watertown, 130 U. S. 301, distinguished.

81 So. 178, reversed.
CERTIORARI to review a judgment of the Supreme Court
of Mississippi rendered in favor of the City of Clarksdale
in a suit brought by the city to assert its ownership in
shares of stock in a railway company. The facts are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. H. D. Minor, with whom Mr. Charles N. Burch
and Mr. Blewett Lee were on the briefs, for plaintiffs in
error and petitioners.
Mr. GeraldFitzgerald,with whom Mr. Geo. F. Maynard
and Mr. W. W. Venable were on the briefs, for defendant
in error and respondent.
The writ of error should be dismissed. Jud. Code, § 237,
as amended. The federal question presented was not of
sufficient importance to warrant certiorari.
The Act of 1893, 27 Stat. 751, has no application to a
sale of property under execution in common-law cases.
Under §§ 914, 916, Rev. Stats., the only way to enforce
one's judgment in the federal court is to proceed according to state practice. Chamberlain v. Mensing, 47 Fed.
435; Ex parte Boyd, 105 U. S. 647; Perez v. Fernandez,
202 U. S. 80; Amy v. Watertown, 130 U. S. 301. Section
914 contains the significant words not contained in the
former acts,-" any rule of court to the contrary notwithstanding." See Ward v. Chamberlain,2 Black, 430. The
state rules can be varied only where necessary to enable
federal officers to function under them.

YAZOO & M. V. R. R. CO. v. CLARKSDALE.
10.

13

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The rule of court need not be in writing, but may exist
in the general practice of the court. Wayman v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1; Logan v. Goodwin, 104 Fed. 409; Citizens Bank v. Farwell,56 Fed. 570.
The form of the marshal's return shows that he was
acting under the Mississippi Code of 1892, and is convincing evidence that it was the custom of the court to
use the statute in force at thedtime the officer acted.
The decisions of the state courts construing'their own
statutes are binding upon the federal court even though
it might be said that such state statutes when adopted
by the federal courts become pro hac federal statutes.
The writs and levy and sale thereunder are all void
and of no effect and subject to collateral attack.
At common law, stock in a corporation could not be
levied upon, and it is only by statutory authority that
this can now be done; the statute must be literally and
strictly followed. 17 Cyc. 944, 945; Cook, Corporations,
vol. 2, 6th ed., § 480; Jellenik v. Huron Copper Mining
Co., 177 U. S. 1; Miss. Code, 1892, § 3467.
There is a sharp difference between the real interests of
a person in a corporation and the stock certificate or
indicium of ownership of the share or interest. Section
3467, Code 1892, especially draws this distinction, and
does not provide for the sale of the stock certificate.
The distinction is plainly drawn in the Jellenik Case,
supra. See Simpson v. Jersey City Contracting Co., 165
N. Y. 193.
The Code of 1871, § 849, also makes this distinction,
for it requires that demand be made upon the company,
in which the debtor is supposed to own a share or interest, for the amount and value of said share or interest
belonging to the debtor, which provision precludes the
idea that the stock certificate itself could be sold as such.
A sale made by the marshal of the United States of
personal property or real estate in front of the federal

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.

14

Opinion of the .Court.

257 U S.

court building is void. Koch v. Bridges, 45 Miss. 247;
Jones v. Rogers, 85 Miss. 802; Moody's Heirs v. Moeller,
72 Tex. 635; Sinclair v. Stanley, 64 Tex. 72; Smith v.
Cockrill, 6 Wall. 756; Bornemann v. Norris, 47 Fed. 438.
Where a sale is void and not merely voidable, it may
be attacked in collateral proceedings. 17 Cyc. 1286;
Harperv. Hill, 35 Miss. 63; Koch v. Bridges, supra;Jones
v. Rogers, supra;Smith v. Cockrill, supra; 2 Freeman on
Execution, 3d ed., § 289.
MR. CHIEF JusTIcE TAFT delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a controversy over the ownership of 250 shares
of the stock of the Louisville, New Orleans & Texas Railway Company, a corporation of Mississippi. The City
of Clarksdale acquired the stock in 1891, in consideration
of $25,000 of bonds issued by it to aid in the construction

of a new branch of the Railway Company in which it was
interested. The certificate for the stock, the City left in
the custody of a Clarksdale bank. The Louisville, New
Orleans & Texas -Railway Company in 1892 was merged
by consolidation in the Yazoo & Mississippi Valley Railroad Company. In 1897, the Pacific Improvement Company, a bondholder, recovered against the City in the
United States Circuit Court for the Northern District
ofj Mississippi a judgment for unpaid interest on the
bonds amounting to $3,058.13. Execution issued to the
marshal who levied on, and took possession of, the stock
certificate in the Clarksdale bank and at public sale sold
the certificate and shares to the judgment creditor for
$100, which was credited on the judgment. In 1898, the
City made a compromise with the bondholders, by which,
for payment of the principal of the bonds in cash, the
bondholders released all claim of interest and transferred
the unsatisfied judgment. No mention was made of the

YAZOO & M. V. R. R. CO. v. CLARKSDALE.
10.

15

Opinion of the Court.

stock in this settlement. In 1904, the Pacific Improvement Company for $2,770.50 sold the stock to the Mississippi Valley Company, an investment company, and
transferred the certificate to that company. The value
of the stock, which was little or nothing at the time of
the judgment and the compromise, has greatly enhanced
and is averred to be $75,000.
By its bill in equity in the state chancery court, the
City sought to compel the Yazoo & Mississippi Valley
Railroad Company to recognize the City's ownership of
this stock and to issue to it stock of the consolidated company in lieu thereof, in accordance with the terms of the
merger. The Mississippi Valley Company, after the
answer to the bill revealed its ownership of the stock,
was made a defendant and the real contest became one
between the City and that company.
In the pleadings and at the hearing the City attacked
the marshal's sale as void under the statutes of Mississippi, and relied on the duty of the United States courts
under federal statutes to conform their executions and
sales to the laws of the State in which they are held.
The state chancery court declared the sale void and
granted the relief asked by the City. The state Supreme
Court affirmed the decree. No opinion was filed in either
court.
We are met by a preliminary question of jurisdiction.
The case was first brought here by a writ of error to the
state Supreme Court. Then, within due tithe, a petition
for a certiorari was also presented, and consideration of
the latter was postponed until the hearing on the writ of
error. Under which writ can the case be reviewed here?
The Mississippi Valley Company relied below, and here
insists, on a title acquired under an execution sale of a
United States marshal. This is a title claimed under an
authority of the United States. Under § 237 of the

16

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

Judicial Code as amended by Act of September 6, 1916,
c. 448, 39 Stat. 726, if the validity of an authority exercised under the United States is drawn in question and
the decision is against its validity, review is by writ of
error. If only a title claimed under an exercise of such an
authority is in dispute, then certiorari is the proper writ.
The authority of the United States marshal to make sales
upon judgments in the United States courts and to give
title thereby is not drawn in question in this ease. What
is denied here is the regularity of the marshal's attempted
exercise of his conceded authority and the validity of
the resulting title. Hence, the only way of reviewing
this cause is by certiorari. Dana v. Dana, 250 U. S. 220;
Philadelphia& Reading Coal & Iron Co. v. Gilbert, 245
U. S.162; Avery v. Popper, 179 U. S.305,314. The writ
of error is dismissed, the petition for certiorari is granted,
and we now proceed to dispose of the case on the latter
writ.
The validity of the judgment upon which the execution
issued is conceded. The questions to be decided arise on
the levy and sale. On the first day of June, 1897, a fieri
facias issued. This writ the marshal executed and made
the following return on it:
"Executed the within writ this the 13th day of Aug.
1897, by levying on and taking into my possession one
Certificate of stock, the property of said defendant in
the Louisville, New Orleans and Texas R. R. Number
147-for 250 shares, issued to the town or city of Clarksdale, Miss. Further executed on this the 6th day of Dec.
1897, at 12 o'clock meridian by selling said certificate of
stock No. 147 after due advertisement by posting notices
in three public places for the period of 10 days as provided by law, to the highest and best bidder for cash,
before the Western door of the United States Court
House, and post office building in the town of Oxford,
Miss., at which sale the Pacific Improvement Company

YAZOO & M. V. R. R. CO. v. CLARKSDALE.

17

Opinion of the Court.

10.

became the highest and best bidder, at and for the price
of $100.00 and at the same time and place I executed the
writ of vende exponas issued to me in this cause and
offered for sale all the interest which the City or Town of
Clarksdale had in the Capital Stock of the Louisville,
New Orleans & Texas Railway Co. or in the Yazoo &
Mississippi Valley Railroad Company, offering said interest at the same time with said certificate of stock to
the said Pacific Improvement-for the said sum of
$100.00, that being the highest and best bid offered for
same.

"Dec. 6th, 1897.

"(Signed)

A. J. CooKE,
"U. V. Marshal."

On the back of the certificate the marshal inscribed the
following:
"Pacific Improvement Company vs. No. 3900 law.
City or town of Clarksdale, Mississippi, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Western District of the
Northern District of Mississippi by virtue of a writ of
fieri facias issued in said cause, I levied upon certificate
of stock on August 3, 1897, and thereon December 6,
1897, pursuant to said execution and to a certain writ of
venditioni exponas, I in the manner provided by law sold
this certificate of stock, all the interest of the city or town
of Clarksdale in the stock of the Louisville, New Orleans
& Texas Railway Company, to the Pacific Improvement
Company. Witness my signature this, the 6th day of
December, 1897. A. J. Cooke, United States Marshal."
Counsel for the City attack the sale chiefly on two
grounds, first that the levy was void because made on a
mere muniment or indicium of title to the stock, the certificate, and not on the stock itself; and second that the
sale was void because not made at the county court
house, as required by the laws of Mississippi.

18

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

In applying the laws of Mississippi to the validity of
this sale, we are governed by §§ 914 and 916 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, as follows:
"See. 914. The practice, pleadings, and forms and
modes of proceeding in civil causes, other than equity
and admiralty causes, in the circuit and district courts,
shall conform, as near as may be, to the practice, pleadings, and forms and modes of proceeding existing at the
time in like causes in the courts of record of the State
within which such circuit or district courts are held, any
rule of court to the contrary notwithstanding."
"Sec. 916. The party recovering a judgment in any
common-law cause in any circuit or district court, shall
be entitled to similar remedies upon the same, by execution or otherwise, to reach the property of the judgment
debtor, as are now provided in like causes by the laws of
the State in which such court is held, or by any such laws
hereafter enacted which may be adopted by general rules
of any such circuit or district court; and such courts may,
from time to time, by general rules, adopt such State
laws as may hereafter be in force in such State in relation to remedies upon judgments, as aforesaid, by execution or otherwise."
Counsel for the petitioner also relies on the Act of
March 3, 1893, c. 225, 27 Stat. 751, which provides in its
first section "that all real estate or any interest in land
sold under any order or decree of any United States Court
shall be sold at public sale at the Court-house of the
county, parish, or city in which the property, or the
greater part thereof, is located, or upon the premises, as
the court rendering such order or decree of, sale may
direct," and in its second section "that all personal property sold under any order or decree of any Court of the
United States shall be sold as provided in the first section
of this act, unless in the opinion of the court rendering

YAZOO & M. V. R. R. CO. v. CLARKSDALE.

19

Opinion of the Court.

10.

such order or decree, it would be best to sell it in some
other manner."
We think that the language of this act limits its application to judicial sales made under order or decree of the
court and requiring confirmation by the court for their
validity, and that it does not extend to sales under common-law executions which issue by mere praecipe of the
judgment creditor on the judgment without order of the
court, and in which the levy and sale of the marshal are
ministerial, do not need confirmation to give them effect,
and only come under judicial supervision on complaint of
either party. The sale in such a case depends for its
validity on the marshal's compliance with the requirements of law. While the Act of 1893 is not limited to
equity and admiralty cases, its passage was doubtless
chiefly prompted by the fact that they were excepted from
the conformity sections.
It is objected that petitioners can not now rely on § 916
because they did not rely on it in the courts below. Their
seventh assignment of error on appeal to the state Supreme Court complained of the refusal of the chancery
court "to hold and adjudge that whether the said Act of
Congress [i. e. the Act of 1893] of the laws of Mississippi
governed the sale under said execution, the validity veI
non of said execution was a Federal question, for that
even if the statutes of the State were applicable, the
same became Federal statutes by-adoption under Act of
Congress of June 1, 1872, U. S. Revised Statutes, Section
916 ". It seems to us that this submitted in the alternative with sufficient specification to the state Supreme
Court the question whether § 916 of the Revised Statutes
conferred validity on the marshal's sale.
Section 916 gives to the judgment creditor "similar
remedies

.

.

. by execution . .

.

as are now pro-

vided in like causes by the laws of the State in which

20

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

such court is held, or by any such laws hereafter enacted
which may be adopted by general rules of such circuit or
district court". This section was part of an act "to
further the Administration of Justice", enacted by Congress June 1st, 1872, c. 255, 17 Stat. 196. The law of
Mississippi applicable to this subject-matter, therefore,
is the law which was in force at that date, unless the
United States Court for the Northern District of Mississippi has since adopted by general rules later state law.
We are not advised that it has done so.
In 1872, the law of Mississippi as to levies on stock of
a corporation was § 849 of the Code of 1871, as follows:
"Bank notes, bills, or evidences of debt, circulating as
money, or any shares or interest in any incorporated company, belonging to the defendant in execution, may be
taken and sold, by virtue of an execution, in the same
manner as goods and chattels, or applied to the payment
of the execution; and the clerk, cashier, or other officer
having the custody of the books of the company, shall,
upon exhibiting to him the writ of execution, be bound to
give to the officer having such writ, a certificate of the
number of shares or amount of the interest held by the
defendant in such company, and if he shall neglect or
refuse to do so, or if he shall willfully give a false certificate thereof, he shall be liable to the plaintiff for double
the amount of all damages occasioned by such neglect or
false certificate, to be recovered in an action on the case
against him. The purchaser of such share or interest, at
such sale, shall become the owner thereof, in the same
manner as if such share or interest had been regularly
assigned to him by the defendant."
We are not advised of any construction of this section
by the Supreme Court of Mississippi, and we must, therefore, treat it as a case of first impression in determining
the proper mode of levying upon shares of corporate stock
under its terms.

YAZOO & M. V. R. R. CO. v. CLARKSDALE.
10.

21

Opinion of the Court.

Taking the section as a whole, it classes bank notes,
bills, or evidences of indebtedness circulating as money,
and shares in an incorporated company together, and
makes them subject to be "taken and sold as goods and
chattels ", or to be "applied to the payment of the execution". At common law, choses in action were not subject to levy as personal property. Here the legislative
purpose appears to be to treat the written evidences of
the choses in action circulating as money as in themselves
capable of manual seizure by the execution officer, and,
in appropriate cases, of actual application as money 9n
the execution debt. The joining of shares of stock in
this section with such choses in action indicates that the
shares are to be regarded as in pari materia, and to be
dealt with, as nearly as may be, in like manner.
The elaborate and specific provision for a levy upon
corporate stock of § 3467 of the Mississippi Code of 1892,
which succeeded the Code of 1871, was, and was evidently intended to be, a departure from, and a substantial amendment of § 849 in this respect. Under the later
code, provision for levy on bank notes, bills and other
evidences of indebtedness is separated from that prescribing the levy on shares of stock. Shares of stock are
no longer dealt with expressly as "goods and chattels ".
The officers of the corporation are no longer required to
give a "certificate" of the number of shares held by the
judgment debtor to the levying officer, but are to make a
statement in writing.
The procedure provided in § 849, in our view, was mitended to furnish to the levying officer a certificate of
the shares of the defendant which the officer could manually take and offer for sale as the shares, and which when
endorsed by the officer with a record of his proceedings
and sale would work an assignment of the shares to the
purchaser " as if regularly assigned to him by defendant,"
i. e., by the usual transfer of a certificate. If we are right

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

in this view, and the absence of any specific form for a
levy in the section confirms us in it, then of course, a
certificate of shares issued to the debtor and found in the
custody of his agent or trustee is the proper subject of
levy and sale under the section. This statutory method
of treating shares of stock and certificates for them as the
same for purposes of levy and "as goods and chattels"
is not without parallel. People v. Grifenhagen,152 N. Y.
S. 679; Mitchell v. Leland Co., 246 Fed. 102; Beal v.
Carpenter,235 Fed. 273; Puget Sound National Bank v.
Mather, 60 Minn. 362.
We think the levy was valid.
Counsel for respondent criticise the recitals of the return as to a venditioni exponas and urge that neither
ground nor time enough was shown for the issue and
return of such a writ. Under the Code of Mississippi, as
elsewhere, this is a writ used to compel an officer to proceed to a sale under a fieri facias, if any of the property
taken remains in the hands of the officer unsold. The
writ is not necessary to enable the officer to proceed with
the sale unless the return day of the writ has gone by.
With this exception, it gives him no authority not previously possessed. Reference to it in the return may well
be treated as surplusage, not affecting the validity of the
proceedings, if in other respects they are regular.
The chief objection of respondent is to the place of
sale, which was at the western door of the United States
court house for the Western District of Mississippi in
the town of Oxford. Counsel for respondent contend
that, under the Mississippi statute, the place of the sale
should have been at the court house of Coahoma County
at Clarksdale, the county of the judgment debtor, and
where the certificate of stock was levied on, and that the
sale at the court house of the United States where the
judgment was entered and execution issued was void.

YAZOO & M. V. R. R. CO. v. CLARKSDALE.
10.

23

Opinion of the Court.

The provision in the Mississippi Code of 1871 as to the
place of sales on execution was as follows:
"846. All sales by any sheriff or other officer, by virtue of any execution or other process, shall be made at
the court house of the county, except when personal
property, too cumbersome to be removed, shall be levied
on, which may be sold at the place where the same may
be found, or at any other convenient place, and also,
except where cattle, hogs, sheep, or stock, other than
horses and mules, are levied on, the sale of which may
be made within the usual hours, on ten days' notice, at
the most public place in the neighborhood of the defendant."
The Supreme Court of Mississippi has decided in Koch
v. Bridges, 45 Miss. 247, and Jones v. Rogers, 85 Miss.
802, that, where land is not sold at the proper county
court house, the sale is void. In Jones v. Rogers the sale
was by a United States marshal. It was made at the
State House in Jackson. A special Act of Congress of
February 16, 1839, c. 27, 5 Stat. 317, provided that the
United States marshal for the district of Mississippi
should be authorized to sell property at the court house
in each county, but that he might, at the written request
of the defendant, change the sale to the place where the
United States court for the district was held. The court,
in the absence of any request of the defendant, held the
sale void, saying:
"Statutes fixing the place of sale of lands under executions are mandatory, and not merely directory; and it is
the imperative duty of officers to make such sales at the
very place designated, and a sale made at any other place
is not voidable merely but absolutely null and void.
The place of sale is the very essence of the sale, and
strict compliance with the statute is absolutely essential
in order to transfer a good title to realty."

24

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

The court cites other cases of land sales by United
States marshals in support of this. Moody's Heirs v.
Moeler, 72 Tex. 635, in which the sale was at the United
States court house just across the street from the county
court house; Sinclair v. Stanley, 64 Tex. 72; Casseday v.
Norris, 49 Tex. 613; Jenners v. Doe, 9 Ind. 461. Mr.
Freeman, in his work on Executions, § 289, vol. 2, says
of these cases that although a view that such sales were
voidable only would be reasonable, the weight of authority sustains them.
With respect to goods and chattels, however, the sale
at the place fixed by statute has not been regarded as so
essential as compliance with the requirement that the
officer selling them shall have the goods in view of the
buyers, Freeman on Execution, § 290, vol. 2; and yet,
the authorities are divided on the question whether a
departure from this requirement renders the sale of personalty void. We do not feel called upon, however, to
inquire and decide which is the better view, because we
think that under § 916, in respect to sales of personalty,
the federal court house was a proper place for holding
the sale.
Section 914 requires that the proceedings in commonlaw cases in the federal court shall conform to those of
state courts "as near as may be." Section 916 gives the
judgment creditor remedies on common-law executions
"similar" to those of the state court. These qualifying
words recognize the necessity for some play in adapting
the state procedure to the practice of the federal courts.
Certain things must be changed. The officer issuing the
writ of execution must be the United States clerk, the
officer executing it must be the marshal, and not the
sheriff, the name of the court must be different, and it
is but a reasonable and obvious consequence that the
place of the proceedings generally shall be at the federal

YAZOO & M. V. R. R. CO. v. CLARKSDALE. 25
10.

Opinion of the Court.

court house instead of at the state court house. The
inconvenience and danger of injustice to the judgment
debtor in having his land sold at the federal court house
when it may lie at a great distance from there in a remote
county of the State, furnish strong reason why federal
and other courts should hold compliance with the injunction of the state laws as to the place of sale of realty
indispensable to its validity. But in case of goods and
chattels which after seizure and levy can be viewed by
bidders as well at a federal court house as at a state
court house, there is little ground for holding that such
sales, like other proceedings under its authority, may not
be properly carried on at the place where the court sits.
The distinction between realty and goods and chattels in
this matter is recognized in the provisions already noticed,
of the Act of Congress of 1893. The first section provides
that the real estate must be sold either at the county
court house in the county where the land is, or on the
premises. No discretion is given the court to change the
sale to any other place. The second section, however,
while it directs that personalty shall be sold as provided
in the realty section, vests full discretion in the court to
sell it elsewhere.
The case of Smith v. Cockrill, 6 Wall. 756, is relied on
by counsel for respondent. That was a sale of real estate.
The state law required appraisal before sale and a sale
at not less than two-thirds the value thus fixed, both
of which requirements were wholly disregarded by the
marshal. The federal statute applying was the Act of
Congress of 1828, c. 68, 4 Stat. 278, which provided that
the forms of process, etc., should be the same as that
used in the state courts. The requirement for appraisal
of real estate and its sale at not less than two-thirds of
the appraised value by a ministerial officer is much more
importaut in protecting the rights of the judgment debtor

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

than the place in a sale of personalty. The case of Bornemann v. Norris, 47 Fed. 438, was also a sale of real estate,
and, moreover, was a direct proceeding to quash.
Nor do we think that the quoted language of the court
speaking through Mr. Justice Bradley in Amy v. Watertown, 130 U. S. 301, is in conflict with our view of the
effect of these conformity sections. The question in that
case was whether when the state statute provided that
process could be served on a city, only by leaving the
summons with the Mayor, and there was no Mayor, the
the federal court could order service to be made on some
one else. The court held that, under § 914, the United
States courts were limited to the method of service prescribed by the state statute. In adopting a state statute
as a guide to the conduct of the business of a United
States court and its officers, service on a state municipal
corporation specified by a state statute is a very different
matter from the fixing of the place for performing the
functions of the United States court and its officers. The
corporation is completely the creature of a State, and it is
usually within the function of the creator to say how the
creature shall be brought before judicial tribunals. It
was with reference to such a matter that Mr. Justice
Bradley said that the statute of 1872 was peremptory,
and federal courts must conform to the practice of state
courts.
For the reasons given, we hold that the sale of the 250
shares of stock to the Pacific Improvement Company
vested a good title.
The decree of the Supreme Court is reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed.

