UNITED STATES v. COOK.
516.

Syllabus.

the stream. The Chattooga is but the extension of the
Tugaloo,-the northern branch or stream of that riverand the fact that it is called Chattooga cannot affect the
jurisdiction of Georgia over "all the islands in the said
rivers Savannah and Tugalo" to which State they are
specifically reserved by the Convention. The islands in
the Chattooga River, as well as those in the Savannah
and Tugaloo, were reserved to Georgia by the Convention.
Thus we conclude: (1) Where there are no islands in
the boundary rivers the location of the line between the
two States is on the water midway between -the main
banks of the river when the water is at ordinary stage;
(2) Where there are islands the line is midway between
the island bank and the South Carolina shore when the
water is at ordinary stage; and (3) That islands in the
Chattooga River are reserved to Georgia as completely as
are those in the Savannah or Tugatoo rivers.
Counsel may present a decree, within thirty days, to
carry into effect these conclusions of the court, with or
without a commission to locate and monument the boundary line as they may be advised. The costs of suit will be
equally divided between the two States.
UNITED STATES v. COOK, EXECUTOR OF
EAMES, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 80. Argued January 13, 1922.-Decided February 27, 1922.
Claimants contracted with the Government to plan and supervise
the construction of a public building for a fee, to be paid on
monthly estimates and final completion, of 5 per cent. of the
actual cost of the work executed from their drawings and specifications and under their supervision, as shown upon the books of
the Supervising Architect by the net amount of construction con-

524

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

tracts awarded and proposals accepted for additions or. deductions.
The building was delayed by an earthquake and fire and Congress
made an additional appropriation to be paid the building contractor upon its completion, to recoup him for actually resulting
losses due to increased prices of labor and materials; denying him
any profit under his contract; and this extra payment was shown
on the books of the Supervising Architect-but no appropriation
was made for the claimants, although they had suffered likewise
and had applied to Congress unsuccessfully.
Held: (1) The allowance to the building contractor was not a gratuity
but an alteration of his contract based on a moral consideration.

P. 526.
(2) Claimants were entitled to their percentage on the additional
amount so paid, since their equity was equally as strong and the
words of their contract permitted. P. 528.
55 Ct. Clms. 215, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims upholding a claim of architects for fees under a contract with
the United States.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Lovett for the United
States.
Mr. Wiliam R. Harr, with whom Mr. Chas. H. Bates
was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. CuIEF JUSTICE

TAFr delivered the opinion of the

court.
Eames and Young, architects of St. Louis, made the
plans for a custom house at San Francisco and supervised
its construction. They were to receive compensation at
the rate of five per centum upon the actual cost of the
work. The work was long delayed, three years, by the
San Francisco earthquake and fire which increased the
cost of labor and materials. Congress authorized the
Secretary of the Treasury within a limit of $250,000 to
make good to the contractor his loss from the delay and
enhanced prices so that he should receive enough to re-

UNITED STATES v. COOK.
523.

Opinion of the Court.

coup him for his outlay but without profit. The architects claimed from the Government five per centuim on
the extra amount paid to the contractor. Eames died
and Cook, his executor, joining with the surviving partner,
Young, brought this suit in the Court of Claims. The
Court of Claims gave judgment for $5,095.38, the full
amount of the claim. The Government appeals.
The contract provided that the fee of the architects
was to be computed at the rate of five per centum upon
"the actual cost of the work executed from the drawings
and specifications, and under their supervision, as shown
upon the books of the Supervising Architect's Office, by
the net amounts of contracts awarded and proposals accepted for additions or deductions." Until the actual
cost could be determined, the monthly payments were to
be on the proposed cost as estimated from time to time by
the Government, and upon the completion of the building
the entire fee was to be computed on the actual construction cost of the work executed from the architects' drawings and specifications and under their supervision, as
shown upon the books of the Supervising Architect's
Office. The extra amount paid the contractor was in fact
shown upon the books of the Supervising Architect's
Office though not of course included in the total cost
stated before. the passage of the act and the ascertainment of the amount due thereunder.
The clause in the Sundry Civil Appropriation Act, approved May 27, 1908, c. 200, 35 Stat. 318, providing for an
extra payment to the contractor was as follows:
"The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized, upon
completion of the custom-house in the city of San Francisco, California, to pay to Thomas Butler, the contractor
for the construction of said building, in addition to the
contract price thereof, such sum as may be equitable and
just to reimburse said contractor for any loss actually sus-

526

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

tained in consequence of the earthquake and great fire of
April, nineteen hundred'and six, not exceeding the sum of
two hundred and fifty thousand dollars: Providd,That
the amount allowed said Thomas Butler shall not be sufficient to enable him to make any profit out of the making
and execution of said contract."
The committee appointed by the Secretary of the
Treasury to adjust the claim found that the actual increased cost to the contractor of constructing the building
due to delay and the increased prices of labor and material
was $101,907.66. During the delay of three years, the
architects under their subsidiary contract had to keep a
superintendent of construction on the building at a cost
of $6,700, and their office and certain contingent expenses
in San Francisco went on.
The Government contends that the amount awarded to
the contractor under the act was a inere gratuity and can
not be properly treated as a part of the cost of construction. We can not agree to this view. It seems to
us that this was an alteration of the contract in response
to equitable considerations. It was a change from unit
prices to a cost plus nothing contract. It was not a mere
lump sum gift. It was the result of inspection and examination as directed by Congress, and an award by actual estimates. It was the result of a change in the contract terms made by the principal in whose name and for
whose benefit the contract was entered into, and acquiesced in by the contractor. It added to "the actual
cost of the work executed from the drawings and specifications and under [the architects'] supervision, as shown
upon the books of the Supervising Architect's Office, by
the net amounts of contracts awarded and proposals accepted for additions or deductions." The additional sum
was part of the net amount of the contracts awarded, as
they were legally modified by the agreement of the parties
embodied in the clause of the congressional act. The

UNITED STATES v. COOK.
523.

Opinion of the Court.

architects' subsidiary contract for compensation contemplated changes in the amount of actual cost by additions
and deductions, i. e., by changes in the main contract, and
a postponement of final calculation until the full actual
cost had been ascertained. The change by legislation
was, of course, not within the minds of the parties when
the work was entered upon, because the earthquake and
fire and change of situation were not anticipated. This,
however, is not enough to exclude it from the operation of
the architects' contract if the change can be brought fairly
within the terms.
It is not helpful to point out that the United States
need not have varied the terms of the main contract, or
that no consideration moved to it in the change, or that
the contractor could not have recovered anything additional in a suit without the legislation. There was the
moral consideration which properly induced the recognition of an honorable obligation and turned an unenforceable equity into a binding and effective provision.
Reference is made to Frisbiev. United States, 157 U. S.
166, and other cases in which a pension is said to be a
gift and not a vested right. These cases have no bearing
on the one before us. They merely establish that Congress
in shaping the form of its bounty may impose conditions
and limitations on its acquisition and enjoyment by the
beneficiaries which it could not impose on the use and enjoyment by them of a vested right.
An authority more helpful in the present case is that of
United States v. Realty Co., 163 U. S. 427. The question
there was the validity of an appropriation by Congress of
money to reimburse sugar planters who on the faith of a
sugar bounty provided by statute, Field v. Clark, 143
U. S. 649, 694, had planted a crop and were subjected to
heavy loss by repeal of the statute. The Government
objected that the sugar bounty was unconstitutional and
that Congress could not pay such a bounty either by

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

prior appropriation or by reimbursement. This court
found it unnecessary to decide whether a sugar bounty
was beyond the power of Congress; but assuming its
invalidity, held that even though, in its purely legal aspect, an invalid law could not be made the basis of a
legal claim, the planter had acquired a claim against
the Government of "an equitable, moral or honorary
nature," that Congress had power to pay the debts of
the United States, that the Nation, speaking broadly,
owed a " debt" to an individual when his claim grew
out of right and justice; when, in other words, it was
based upon considerations of a moral or merely honorary
nature, and that the power of Congress extended to the
payment of such a debt. The claim of the contractor in
this case was more concrete than that of the sugar planter
and was equitably recognized by Congress as part of the
cost of the building to be paid by the Government.
The architects had just as great an equity in this matter
as the contractor. The delays and rise in the prices
affected their expenses proportionately. When, therefore, the contractor has received more for the work, it is
just that the architects receive a percentage on what has
thus been recognized by the Government as a "debt" to
the contractor for his work, and the words of the contract
are inclusive enough to permit this to be done.
The fact that the architects unsuccessfuly applied to
Congress for relief similar to that accorded to the contractor is relied on as an admission by the architects that only
by congressional action could they have equity done
them. We do not consider this material or important. We
can not say from anything before us but that the reason
why Congress did not make special provision for the
architects was the assumption that their equities might be
worked out under their contract as they have been by
this judgment of the Court of Claims.
Affrmed.

