NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
563.

Syllabus.

against, and obstruction to, interstate commerce, and
must leave appropriate discretion to the state authorities
to deal with intrastate rates as between themselves on
the general level which the Interstate Commerce Commission has found to be fair to interstate commerce.
It may well turn out that the effect of a general order
in increasing all rates, like the one at bar, will, in particular localities, reduce income instead of. increasing it,
by discouraging patronage. Such cases would be within
the saving clause of the order herein, and make proper an
application to the Interstate Commerce Commission for
appropriate exception. So, too, in practice, when the state
commissions shall recognize their obligation to maintain
a proportionate and equitable share of the income of the
carriers from intrastate rates, conference between the
Interstate Commerce Commission and the state commissions may dispense with the necessity for any rigid federal order as to the intrastate rates, and leave to the state
commissions power to deal with them and increase them
or reduce them in their discretion.
The order of the District Court granting the interlocutory injunction is

Affirmed.
STATE OF NEW.YORK ET AL. v. UNITED STATES,
CLARK ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION, AND (INTERVENING) LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD
COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 283. Argued October 19, 20, 1921.-Decided February 27, 1922.
1. Absence of any substantial evidence to sustain a finding of the
Interstate Commerce Commission material to an order adjusting
rates, may be relied on in a suit directly attacking the order, to

592

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellants.

257 U. S.

which the United States and the Commission are made parties.

P. 600.
2. Evidence found insufficient to sustain an order for a general increase of state passenger, baggage and milk rates as prejudicial to
persons and localities in interstate commerce, under § 416, (§ 13,
paragraph 4,) of the Transportation Act of 1920. P. 600. Cf.
Railroad Commission of Wisconsin v. Chicago, Burlington &
Quincy R. R. Co., ante, 563.
3. Interference with a charter fare-limiting contract between a railroad and a State, is not a taking of the property of the State or its
people without due process of law, when done under the power of
Congress to regulate interstate commerce; nor does the contract
clause of the Constitution forbid. P. 600.
4. Intrastate rates so low that they discriminate against interstate
commerce, within the meaning of the Transportation Act of 1920,
may constitutionally be increased thereunder, by the Interstate
Commerce Commission, to conform with like rates in interstate
commerce fixed by it pursuant to the act. P. 601. Railroad Commission of Wisconsin v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R.
Co., ante, 563.
272 Fed. 758, affirmrd.

ApPAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing a
bill brought by appellants against the United States and
the Interstate Commerce Commission to annul an order
of the latter authorizing an increase of intrastate railroad
rates. Various carriers intervened and became appellees.
Mr. Edward G. Griffin and Mr. John E. Benton, with
whom Mr. Charles D. Newton, Attorney General of the
State of New York, and Mr. George L. Meade were on the
briefs, for appellants.
The appellants have capacity to sue. Dakota Central
Telephone Co. v. South Dakota, 250 U. S. 163; Rhode
Island v. Palmer, 253 U. S. 350; New Jersey v. Palmer,
253 U. S. 350; California v. Southern Pacific Co., 157
U. S. 229; Ames v. Kansas, 111 U. S. 449; American Express Co. v. Caldwell, 244 U. S. 617; Ex parte McCardle,

7 Wall. 506.

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
591.

Argument for Appellants.

This court has jurisdiction to review the facts on which
the report, findings and order were made and to set aside
the report,.findings and order of the Commission. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Union Pacific R. R. Co.,
222 U. S. 541; Procter& Gamble Co. v. United States, 225.
U. S. 282; Manufacturers Ry. Co. v. United States, 246
U. S. 457; Seaboard Air Line Ry. Co. v. United States,
254 U. S. 57; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Illinois
Central R. R. Co., 215 U. S. 452.
The formula of raising all state rates to -the level of
interstate rates is too rigid to be practicable and too unjust to have been intended by Congress. Minnesota
Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 412; Shreveport Case, 234 U. S.
342; American Express Co. v. Caldwell, 244 U. S. 417;
Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. State Public Utilities Commission, 245 U. S. 493. In none of these cases were any
more of the state rates invalidated than those which the
court held to be in direct conflict with lawfully established
interstate rates. And § 13 (4) of the amended Interstate
Commerce Act goes no further.
Regulation of interstate commerce may not provide
revenue from state commerce. Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S.
466, 541.
The New York Central is doing business under a charter contract. Only by abandoning its charter and by
federal incorporation may it avoid the two cent fare.
Cleveland v. Cleveland City Ry. Co., 194 U. S. 517; Columbus Ry. & Power Co. v. Corumbus, 249 U. S. 399;
Brooks-Scanlon Co. v. Railroad Commission, 251 U. S.
396; Grand Rapids & Indiana Ry. Co. v. Osborn, 193
U. S. 7. The purpose of Congress to violate this contract
should not be implied. Congress may not forever destroy
the rights of the State in, a contract, under an unlimited
and interminable exercise of its war powers. There are
dicta to the general effect that Congress may impair the
obligations of contracts, because at the time of the adop-

594

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellnts.

257 U. S.

tion of the Constitution only the States were speially
restrained and Congress was not. Sinking-Fund tss,
99 U. S.718; Mitchell v. Clark, 110 U. S.643; Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wall. 529; Evans-Snider-Buel Co. v. McFadden, 105 Fed. 297; Michigan Central R. R. Co. v.
Slack, 17 Fed. Cas. No. 9,527a, affd. 100 U. S. 595;
Evans v. Eaton, Pet. (C. C.) 322; 8 Fed. Cas. No. 4,559;
Bloomer v. Stolley, 5 McLean, 158; a Fed. Cas. No. 1,559;
Hardeman v. Downer, 39 Ga. 425; Jones v. Harker, 37
Ga. 503; Black v. Lusk, 69 fll. 70.
On the other hand the contrary has just as strongly
been said. Hepburn v. Griswold, 8 Wall. 603, 623; Sinking-Fund Cases, 99 U. S.700, 718-719; St. Anthony Falls
Water Power Co. v. St. Paul Water Commissioners, 168
U. S.372; Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wall. "457,581; Loan
Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655, 663-664; Fletcher v.
Peck, 6 Cranch, 87.
Madison had denounced such laws as "contrary to the
first principles of the social compact and every principle
of sound legislation." Planters'Bank v. Sharp, 6 How.
301, 319. One reason why the States had been specially
restricted in Article X was because of outrages upon aliens
and because the impairment of agreements with the
British Government had endangered international relations. 5 Elliott, pp. 127, 171, 207, 546. The convention
had rejected Mr. Gerry's resolution made on September
14th, to put a like prohibition on Congress.
Yet this does not necessarily mean that authority had
been delegated to the Nation to commit an act malum in
se and that national honor restrained only local greed.
If the prohibition on Congress does not rest upon first
principles, the Fifth Amendment with the expanded interpretation of "due process" is now a sufficient restraint.
Due process in the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments
has come to mean the same thing. United States v. Arm-

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
591.

595

Argument for Appellants.

strong, 265 Fed. 683, 690, and now protects all property
against both the States and the United States. See particularly the dissenting opinion in Wight v. Davidson,
181 U. S. 371, 387.
The State is a person under the analogy of the decisions
that a private or municipal corporation is a person. The
charter contract was made upon behalf of. all the people
and all the citizens of the State. Their interest represented by the State is entitled to the protection of the
Constitution. Dakota Central Telephone Co. v. South
Dakota, 250 U. S. 163, 180.
Even though the State's right in this charter is not
based upon property, its right should be recognized in its
power-its police power over common carirers, and its
power to create or to refuse to create corporations under
such terms and conditions as it may see fit. Although a
corporation, after its creation, under the Federal Constitution is entitled to engage in interstate commerce, before
its creation the State may impose conditions precedent,
which if imposed as conditions subsequent might be violative of various provisions of the State or Federal Constitutions. Municipal Gp Co. v. PublicService Commission, 225 N. Y. 93; Railroad Co. v. Maryland, 21 Wall.
456; Horn Silver Co. v. New York, 143 U.-. .305; Raritan
Co. v. Delaware Canal Co., 18 N. J. Eq. 546. The State
may generally impose any condition in return for the
grant of a charter. Although it may be impracticable for
the railroad to abandon its corporate character and operate as a copartnership or otherwise, it is theoretically
possible. On the other hand, if the burdens of its charter
here are too great, it can seek incorporation as an interstate carrier under an act of Congress. The power of Congress to grant such a charter seems unquestionable. California v. Central Pacific R. R. Co., 127 U. S. 1. Then it
might become subject only to New York's police power.

596

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellants.

257 U. S.

Reagan v. Mercantile Trust Co., 154 U. S. 413; Legal
Possibilities of Federal Incorporation, 26 Yale Law Jour.
207; Right to Engage in Commerce, 8 Mich. Law Rev.
458; Federal Incorporation, 17 Mich. Law Rev. 64, 143,
238. For the present the benefits of the charter cannot be
left to the railroad and its burdens removed by Congress
throughout the life of the charter. Paige v. Schenectady
Ry. Co., 178 N. Y. 102, 114.
Discrimination must be substantial and material to
warrant federal interference and the appropriate proof
of substantial discrimination is loss of business thereby.
Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. State Public Utilities Commission, 245 U. S. 493; Interstate Commerce Commission
v. Baltimore& Ohio R. R. Co., 145 U. S. 263; Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 47. Under these
decisions the normal volume of interline business on the
Long Island Railroad is negligible and would not warrant
any action by the Commission. Moreover, there is in this
case no scintilla of evidence that. even the smallest portion of this negligible so-called interstate business has
been adversely affected in the least. As to the Staten
Island Company, the case is even worse.
The railroads cannot claim that every passenger who
leaves New York State after traveling on their lines is an
interstate passenger while on their lines. Gulf, Colorado
& Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Texas, 204 U. S. 403; Chicago,
Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co. v. Iowa, 233 U. S. 334;
Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Mitchell Coal Co., 238 U. S.
251. The mere fact that there are two tickets, one interstate and one intrastate, does not conclude the inquiry.
The only rule is that the decision must rest upon the facts
of the case in question. Southern Pacific Co. v. Arizona,
249 U. S. 472; Public Utilities Commission v. Landon,
249 U. S! 236; Arkadelphia Co; v. St. Louis Southwestern
Ry. Co., 249 U. S. 134; Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Fuentes, 236 U. S. 67.

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
591.

Opinion of the Court.

The Commission has unauthorizedly assumed the authority of an appellate tribunal to review the action of the
state legislature and regulatory bodies.
Its order is unlawful and unconstitutional on its face.
Congress did not attempt to enlarge the scope of the
power of the Commission over intrastate rates, as is shown
by the legislative history of the amendments of 1920.
The doctrine of the Shreveport Case, 234 U. S. 342, has
not broadened materially the power of Congress over
purely intrastate commerce.
The States, and not Congress, under the Constitution,
have the right to regulate commerce within their respective borders.
Mr. Walter C. Noyes and Mr. Alfred P. Thorn, with
whom Mr. George F. Brownell, Mr. W. S. Jenney, Mr. C.
L. Andrus, Mr. R. W. Barrett, Mr. John J. Beattie, Mr.
D. E. Minard and Mr. William D. Waldron were on the.
briefs, for the railroad companies, intervening defendants.
Mr. P. J. Farrellfor the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. Solicitor GeneralBeck for the United States.
MR. CHinF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the

court.
This was a bill in equity against the United States and
the Interstate Commerce Commission and others brought
by the. State of New York and its Attorney General to
annul and enjoin the enforcement of an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission requiring the interstate rail-

roads operating in intrastate commerce in the State of
New York to charge in such commerce 3.6 cents a mile for
all passengers, twenty per cent. increase over the then
excess baggage rates to intrastate passengers, a surcharge
of fifty per cent. of the charges for 3pace in sleeping cats

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

to such passengers, and twenty per cent. increase in intrastate rates on milk, all for the purpose of bringing the
intrastate rates to the level of the interstate rates previously fixed by the Commission. The bill was filed under,
and by virtue of, the statute repealing the Commerce
Court Act and conferring jurisdiction on the District
Court. 38 Stat. 219. The application for an interlocutory
injunction was heard by a Circuit Judge and two District
Judges. Then a final hearing was had, and the court
entered a final decree dismissing the complaint, from
which this appeal has been taken. The Railroad Companies affected by the order were on their petition permitted to intervene, and are here as appellees.
It appears from the record that, in the proceeding by the
Interstate Commerce Commission to fix interstate commerce rates to comply with the requirements of § 15a of
the Interstate Commerce Act, added by § 422 of the
Transportation Act of 1920, 41 Stat. 488-a proceeding known as Ex parte 74, Increased Rates, 58 I. C. C.
220-the Commission, after conference with a committee
representing all the state commerce commissions and
authorities, authorized the group of interstate railroads
of which the railroads operating in New York were a part
to, raise their freight rates forty per cent., their passenger
rates and excess baggage charges twenty per cent., and to
add a surcharge of fifty per cent. for passengers on sleeping cars. As soon as the order in Ex parte 74 was made,
the railroads concerned applied to the Public Service Commission of the State of New York for similar increases in
intrastate rates. That commission granted the increase
in freight rates, but denied it as to milk rates and passenger fares. The passenger intrastate fares were 3 cents
a mile under the order of the President during the war
control, but, when that should become ineffective, a
statute of New York fixing passenger fares on the New
York Central Railroad from Albany to Buffalo at two

NEW YORK v. UNITEIi STATES.
591.

599

Opinion of the Court.

cents a mile would come into force and operation. As
soon as the state commission made its ruling, the railroads
applied to the Interstate Commerce Commission under
§ 13 of the act, of which proceeding notice was given to
the State of New York, the Attorney General and the
Public Service Commission, all of whom appeared, for an
order directing the railroads to put intrastate passenger
fares, excess baggage charges, sleeping car surtaxes and
milk rates on the same level with interstate rates. Proof
was offered by the railways to show that conditions of
operation in state and interstate passenger traffic were
alike and there was no showing otherwise. The record in
Ex parte 74 was put in evidence. There was evidence also
to show that at Buffalo and other border points the difference between the interstate and intrastate fares would
divert business from the interstate lines between New
York City and Buffalo to the New York Central lines, and
that the same difference would break up interstate journeys to the west into intrastate journeys to Buffalo from
New York and an interstate journey beyond, thus reducing interstate travel and discriminating against passengers
carried therein. Evidence was adduced to show the injury
to interstate business in the transportation of milk from
the country to New York City from points outside of the
State in competition with intrastate traffic in this necessity of life. No investigation was made into suburban
commuter travel and it is excluded by the Commission
from the scope of the order which it made. The order was
state wide in its effect and required all interstate carriers
to bring their intrastate milk rates, their intrastate passenger fares except commuters' rates, excess baggage
charges and sleeping car surcharges to a level with interstate fares and rates as ordered in Ex parte74. The Commission introduced a saving clause in its findings by which
the New York authorities or any other interested parties
were given leave to apply for modification of its order or

600

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

'findings as to any intrastate fares, charges or rates included therein on the ground that the latter were not
related to interstate fares, charges or rates in such a way
as to -contravene the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act. Under this clause, at least one petition has
been filed by a railroad and the railroad excepted from
the order.
The District Court dismissed the bill.
This case differs from the Wisconsin Rate Case, just decided, ante, 563, in that it is a direct proceeding to annul
or set aside the order of the Interstate Commerce Commission complained of, brought against the United States
and the Commission under the statute. Skinner & Eddy
Corporationv. United States, 249 U. S. 557. The Wisconsin Rate Case was a suit by a railroad against the state
authorities to prevent the latter from penalizing the railroad for complying with the order of the Commission.
To this suit the United States and the Commission were
not parties. The defense of the state authorities was a
collateral attack upon the order, to prevail in which, they
were obliged to show that the order was void on the face
of the findings without regard to the evidence or the absence of it. In the case before us, the complainants are
entitled to rely on the absence of any substantial evidence
to sustain a material finding as a basis for attacking the
order.
The first objection of the appellants is that there was
no sufficient evidence of discrimination against persons
and localities under § 13, par. 4, § 416 of the Transportation Act of 1920, to justify a state-wide order of the
kind here made. We have considered this objection in
the Wisconsin Rate Case on a similar showing on the findings. Here we consider it on the evidence. We reach
the same conclusion here and sustain the objection.
The next objection is that the State has a charter contract with the New York Central Railroad Company by

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
591.

Opinion of the- Court.

which the latter is bound not to charge more .than two
cents a mile for passenger carriage between Albany and
Buffalo, and that, if the Transportation Act permits the
Interstate Commerce Commission by such an order to
enable the railroad company to violate its contract, it impairs the obligation of a contract in violation of § 10,
Article I, of the Federal Constitution. That section provides that "no tate shall . . . pass any . .
law impairing the obligation of contracts," and does not
in terms restrict Congress or the United States. But it is
said that it deprives New York and her people of property
without due process of law. We said in Addyston Pipe &
Steel Co. v. United States, 175 U. S.211, 230, "Anything
which directly obstructs and thus regulates that commerce
which is carried on among the States, whether it is state
legislation or private contracts between individuals or
corporations, should be subject to the power of Congress
in the regulation of that commerce." Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Mottley, 219 U. S.467. See also Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S.141, 162, 163; Union Bridge Co.
v. United States, 204 U. S. 364, 400.
The main objections to the order are the same as those
presented, considered and overruled in the Wisconsin
Rate Case, just decided. The evidence in this case shows
that, if the passenger and other rates here in controversy
were to continue in force as ruled by the Public Service
Commission of New York, the annual gross revenues of
the interstate railroads operating in the State of New
York from both interstate and intrastate passenger and
milk business would be less by nearly twelve millions of
dollars than those revenues if the intrastate fares and rates
were on the same level as the interstate rates as fixed by
the Interstate Commerce Commission. If the lower level
of intrastate fares and rates is to be maintained, it will discriminate against interstate commerce, in that it will require higher fares and rates in the interstate eommerce of

602

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

the State to secure the income for which the Interstate
Commerce Commission must attempt to provide by fixing rates under § ISa of the Interstate Commerce Act; as
amended by § 422 of the Transportation Act of 1920, 41
Stat. 456, 488, in carrying out the declared congressional
purpose "to provide the people of the United States with
adequate transportation." As we have just held in the
Wisconsin Rate Case, this constitutes "undue, unreasonable, or unjust discrimination against interstate .
commerce ", which is declared to be unlawful and prohibited by § 13, par. 4, of the Interstate Commerce Act, as
amended by § 416 of the Transportation Act of 1920, 41
Stat. 456, 484, and which the Interstate Commerce Commission is authorized therein to remove by fixing intrastate rates for the purpose. We need not repeat our reasons for our ruling. Nor need we consider and give again
the grounds upon which we hold § 13, par. 4 as thus construed to be valid under the Constitution of the United
States.
The decree of the District Court dismissing the bill of
complaint is
Affirmed.
SMIETANKA, AS COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
FIRST DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS, v. FIRST TRUST
& SAVINGS BANK, TRUSTEE OF YOUNG, DECEASED.
CERMTIORARI TO THE CmCUrr COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUT.

No. 540. Argued January 19, 1922.--Decided February 27,1922.
1. The Income Tax Act of 1913 made no provision for taxing income
held and accumulated by a trustee for unborn and unascerained
beneficiaries. P. 605.

