506

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

plied in a case somewhat like the present by the Supreme
Court of Hawaii. Oahu Ry. & Land Co. v. Pratt, 14
Hawaii, 126. Whether this property could be taxed in
any other form or not, it cannot be reached as profits or
income from leases such as those before us. The same
considerations that invalidate a tax upon the leases invalidate a tax upon the profits of the leases, and, stopping
short of theoretical possibilities, a tax upon such profits
is a direct hamper upon the effort of the United States
to make the best terms that it can for its wards. Weston
v. Charleston, 2 Pet. 449, 468. The taxation of cattle
grazing in Indian lands held valid in Thomas v. Gay, 169
U. S. 264, 273, obviously is more remote. As a writ of
error lies in this case the petition for. certiorari that was
presented for greater caution will be denied. DahnkeWalker Milling Co. v. Bondurant, ante, 282.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JusTicE PITNEY, MR. JUSTICE BANDEIS and MR.
JusTICE CLARKE dissent.

INTERNATIONAL RAILWAY COMPANY v. DAVIDSON, INDIVIDUALLY AND AS COLLECTOR OF
THE PORT OF BUFFALO, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM AND CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

APPEALS FOR THE SECOND CIR0CU.

No. 340. Argued January 3, 4, 1922.-Decided January 30, 1922.
1. The Act of February 13, 1911, c. 46, 36 Stat. 899, authorizing
special permits for immediate lading and unlading of vessels and
other conveyances, and empowering the Secretary of the Treasury
to fix extra compensation to be paid customs officials at the expense of the licensees for Sunday and holiday service in such lading
or unlading, was not applicable to an international toll bridge nor
to the operation thereon of a line of passenger trolley cars; nor
was it made so by the amendment of February 7, 1920, c. 61, 41

INTERNATIONAL RY. CO. v. DAVIDSON.
506.

507

Statement of the Case.

Stat. 402, by which the extra compensation was extended to cover
overtime " in connection with the unlading, receiving, or examination of passengers' baggage," this provision being given full effect
if confined to baggage of passengers on vessels for the immediate
lading or unlading of whose cargoes special license may issue under
the original act. P. 512.
2. A company owning and operating a toll bridge, with a line of
trolley cars, across the Niagara River, over which was heavy passenger travel in the cars, in other vehicles and on foot, and as to
which customs inspection service had been maintained by the
United States, as well on Sundays and holidays, when the travel
was heaviest, as on week days, was notified that unless it procured
a special license under the -above amended act, which would
necessitate its agreeing to pay the amount of extra compensation
for customs officials and giving a bond to indemnify the United
States against all losses arising from the granting of the license,
no vehicle, except the cars, would be permitted to enter the United
States on Sundays and holidays, and no passengers, except after
surrender of all personal baggage,, including handbags, to a customs guard, and that all vehicles except tibe cars, and all baggage
surrendered, would be held by the collector at the owner's risk for
examination on the following working day. Held: (a) That the
instruction of the Secretary of the Treasury to this effect could
not be sustained as a discretionary determination that the movement of merchandise at the place did not justify maintaining customs service on the days in question. P. 514. (b) That it was not
a valid regulation under Rev. Stats., § 161, but was both unreasonable and inconsistent with law, virtually laying a tax and providing
for extra compensation of officials from a private source contrary
to statute. P. 514. (c) That the bridge owner, as well as passengers and vehicle owners, had a standing to question the regulation. P. 515.
273 Fed. 153, reversed.

REvIEw of a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming the action of the District Court in dismissing,
for want of equity, a bill filed by the present petitioner to
restrain the respondent collector of customs from putting
into effect feasures affecting the customs inspection at
the terniiinus of petitioner's toll bridge.
Mr.Basil Robillardfor appellant and petitioner.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Ottinger, with whom
Mr. Solicitor GeneralBeck and Mr. Harvey B. Cox were
on the brief, for appellees and respondents.
Mr. John W. Beaumont, by leave of court, filed a brief
as amicus curiae.
MR. JusTIcE B

wDEis delivered the opinion of the

court.
The International Railway Company owns and operates two public toll-bridges across the Niagara River between the United States and Canada. One is at Niagara
Falls, the other at Lewiston, a short distance below.
Over each bridge the company operates regularly its passenger cars; and over each there is heavy passenger travel
also in other vehicles and on foot. For more than twenty
years prior to June, 1920, the Government had, at its om
expense, maintained at the American end of these bridges
customs inspectors, continuously day and night, including Sundays and holidays. Then the Collector of Customs of the Port of Buffalo notified the company that on
Sundays and holidays thereafter no vehicle (except trolley
cars) would be permitted to enter the United States;
that no passenger would be allowed to enter except after
surrender to the customs guard of all personal baggage,
even the smallest handbag; and that all vehicles (except
trolley cars) and all baggage surrendered would be-held
by the Collector, at the owner's risk, for examination on
the next following working day. The company was further advised that continued service of customs inspectors
on Sundays and holidays could be secured, if it would
make application for a special license under the Act of
February 13, 1911, c. 46, 36 Stat. 899, as amended by the
Act of February 7, 1920, c. 61, 41 Stat. 402. Day and
night customs service on ordinary week days was to be
continued at the expense of the Government as thereto-

INTERNATIONAL RY.CO. v. DAVIDSON.
506.

509

Opinion of the Court.

fore. The Collector acted throughout under instructions
of the Secretary of the Treasury.
The Act of 1911, entitled "An Act To provide for the
lading or unlading of vessels at night ", etc., declares that
immediate lading or unlading of any vessel or other conveyance can be had upon the obtaining by "master,
owner, agent, or consignee" of a special license therefor.
To obtain the license it is necessary that the applicant
shall agree to pay to the Collector of Customs an amount
equal to the extra compensation of the customs officers
employed therefor at night or on Sundays or holidays, and,
shall give a bond conditioned to indemnify the United
States against all losses which arise from granting the
license. The compensation payable for overtime, including services on Sundays and holidays, was fixed by the
Secretary of the Treasury at double the day rate; and the
amount of the bond for a six months' license is fixed by
the statute at fifty thousand dollars. The amendment of
1920 provides, among other things, that the work for
which extra compensation is payable by the licensee shall
include that of examining "passengers' baggage." The
company does not unlade any cargo at night or on Sundays or holidays, and does not contemplate doing so. It
is interested only iii preserving the passenger traffic passing over its bridges. This traffic on working days is not
nearly as heavy as on Sundays and holidays. Discontinuance of the customs service on those days would, in large
measure, destroy that traffic.
The company brought this suit in the Federal District
Court for Western New York against the Collector to
enjoin the threatened action, insisting that the provisions
of these statutes are not applicable to a toll-bridge and
that the Collector is without power to exact, as a condition of continuing the service, that the company take a
license with the attendant burdens. The District Court

510

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

dismissed the bill for want of equity, 271 Fed. 313; and
its decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
273 Fed. 153. The case was brought here by appeal; and
a petition for a writ of certiorari was also filed, consideration of which was postponed until the hearing on the
merits. Whether the action taken and threatened ecceeds
the powers conferred by l1w is the main question presented.
The Act of 1911 contained no reference whatsoever to
passengers or to their baggage or personal effects. It
dealt exclusively with the grant of special permits for the
immediate lading or unlading of vessels and other conveyances. It consists of five sections and a repealing clause.
The first four prescribe the conditions under which such
license shall issue and the proceedings to be taken thereunder. The fifth section gives the Secretary of the Treasury power to fix extra compensation to be paid customs
officials serving at night, on Sundays or on holidays in connection with lading or unlading under such special permit;
and it provides that an amount equal to the extra compensation shall be paid to the Collector by the licensee.
The amendatory Act of February 7, 1920, made no change
whatsoever in the first four sections of the Act of 1911.
It dealt solely with the extra compensation, merely
substituting the new § 5, shown in the margin.1 This
1

In the following reprint of the new § 5 the phrases omitted from
old § 5 are bracketed and are in small capitals. The new phrases are
in italics. That part-of the section which remained unchanged is in

ordinary type.
"The Secretary of the Treasury shall fix a reasonable rate of extra
compensation for [NIGHT] overtime services of inspectors, storekeepers, weighers, and other customs officers and employees who may

be required to remain on duty between the hours of five o'clock postmeridian and eight o'clock antemeridian,or on Sundays or holidays,
to perform services in connection with the lading or unlading of
cargo [AT

NIGHT],

or the lading [AT

NwiT]

of cargo or merchandise

INTERNATIONAL RY. CO. v. DAVIDSON. 511
506.

Opiniofi of the Court.

substituted section defines what shall be deemed overtime,
how the rate of extra pay shall be fixed, an& what the
work is, for which extra compensation shall be paid. In
for transportation in bond Or for exportation in bond or for [THE]
exportation with benefit of drawback, or in connection with the receiving or delivery of cargo on or from the wharf, or in connection
with the unlading, receiving, or examination of passengers' baggage
[BUT SUCH RATE OF COMPENSATION SHALL NOT EXCEED AN AMOUNT
EQUAL TO DOUBLE THE RATE OF COMPENSATION ALLOWED TO EACH SUCH

such rates
to be fixed on the basis of one-half day's additional pay for each two
hours or fraction thereof of at least one hour that the overtime extends
beyond five o'clock postmeridian (but not to exceed two and one-half
days' pay for the full period from five o'clock postmeridian to eight
o'clock antemeridian), and two additional days' pay for Sunday or
holiday duty. [,] The said extra compensation shall [TO] be paid
by the master, owner, agent, or consignee of such vessel or other conveyance whenever such special license or permit for immediate lading
or unlading or for lading or unlading at night or on Sundays or holidays shall be granted to the collector of customs, who shall pay the
same to the several customs officers and employees entitled thereto
according to the rates fixed therefor by the Secretary of the Treasury: Provided, That such extra compensation shall be paid if such
officers or employees have been ordered to report for duty and have
so reported, whether the actual lading, unlading, receiving, delivery,
or examination takes place or not. Customs officers acting as boardOFFICER OR EMPLOYEE FOR LIxE SERVICES RENDERED BY DAY],

ing officers and any customs officer who may be designated for that

purpose by the collector of customs are hereby authorized to administer the oath or affirmation herein provided for, and such boarding
officers shall be allowed extra compensation for services in boarding
vessels at night or on Sundays or holidays at the rates prescribed
by the Secretary of the Treasury as herein provided, the said extra
compensation to be paid by the master, owner, agent, or consignee
as such vessel[s]: Provided further, That in those ports where customary working hours are other than those hereinabove mentioned,
the Collector of Customs is vested with authority to regulate the
hours of customs employees so as to agree with prevailing working
hours in said ports, but nothing contained in this proviso shall be
construed in any manner to affect or alter the length of a working
day for customs employees or the overtime pay herein fixed."

512

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

this work it includes that "in connection with the unlading, receiving, or examination of passengers' baggage."
The contention of the Government is that the mere insertion of these words in §5 has the effect of establishing a system of special licenses applicable to toll-bridges which are
not vessels or other conveyances, and on which there is
neither cargo, lading or unlading, but passengers who pass
on foot or in trolleys or automobiles.
The contention is at variance with the language of the
act and with its history. Obviously the words "vessel or
other conveyance" are not. appropriate to describe the
plant of a toll-bridge. Other provisions, also, of the Act
of 1911, like the requirement of "entry of vessels, and
due report of other conveyances" before issue of the
special license, show that it was not the purpose of Congress to make it applicable to the conduct of a toll-bridge
or the operation thereon of a line of passenger trolley cars.
The clause in the amendment of 1920 by which the extra
compensation payable under §5 is extended to-cover overtime "in connection with the unlading, receiving, or examination of passengers' baggage " is given full effect, if
applied to the baggage of passengers on those vessels for
the immediate lading and unlading of whose cargoes
special license may issue under the first four sections of
the Act of 1911. That these were the only overtime services in connection with passengers for which the amendment made provision is confirmed by its history. The
injustice of denying to customs officials compensation for
such overtime services was obvious. But the Secretary
of the Treasury had been advised, after the passage of
the Act of 1911, as well as before, that he was without
power to make-or to require the vessel owner to makeany payment therefor, since passengers' baggage is not
"cargo ", 30 Ops. Atty. Gen. 123. To remedy this and
other defects in the provision for extra pay, the amendinent was introduced at the. instance of the Treasury De-

INTERNATIONAL RY. CO. v. DAVIDSON.
'506.

513

Opinion of the Court.

partment, with the approval of the United States Shipping Board and of the American Steamship Association.'
Congress created two distinct systems for the examination of articles coming from foreign countries. One dealt
with articles imported as merchandise; the other with
passengers' baggage and personal effects. That distinction, established by the Act of March 2, 1799, c. 22, 1 Stat.
627, has b5een preserved in all later legislation. One Pearl
Chain v. United States, 123 Fed. 371, 374. For merchandise there are elaborate provisions concerning entry,
manifests, unloading, invoices, consular certificates and
bills of lading. Revised Statutes, §§ 2581, 2867, 2962 and
2872, as amended by Act of June 26, 1884, c. 121, § 25,
23 Stat. 53, 59. There are special provisions affecting importations from Canada and Mexico. Revised Statutes,
§§ 3097, 3098,3099. Compliance with these requirements
necessarily involves delays. Concerning passengers' baggage and effects the provisions are much simpler. They
are designed to secure expeditious entry. Revised Statutes, §§ 2799, 2800, 2801 and 2802, deal with articles from
foreign ports. There are additional provisions concerning
IReport of Committee on Commerce, Senate No. 306, 66th Cong.,
1st sess. In presenting the report in the Senate on behalf of the
Committee, Mr. Calder said: "We have had a law on the statute
books for a number of years permitting the lading and unlading of
vessels at night, for which the Government employees were paid in
some such manner a is prescribed in this measure. But a year or
two ago the Attorney General held that men could not be paid for
passing upon the baggage taken off ships at night, but could be paid
for supervising the discharging of the cargoes. That caused some
difficulty, because we found a customs official examining baggage at
night and being unpaid for it, and right alongside of him a customs
official examining cargo and being paid for that." 59 Cong. Rec.,
Part 1, p. 640. See also 59 Cong. Rec., Part 2, pp. 2176-2178; Hearing of October 11, 1919, on Hours of Labor and Pay of Customs Inspectors on H. R. 6577, Committee on Ways and Means; Senate
Report No. 660, 61st Cong., 2d seas.; House Report No. 1657, 61st
Cong., 2d sess.

514

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

articles coming from contiguous countries. Revised Statutes, §§ 3100, 3101, 3102. That Congress intended by the
Act of 1920 to abandon this distinction between merchandise and passengers' baggage which had been carefully preserved in the Act of 1911, is not to be assumed.
It is also insisted that the Secretary of the Treasury has
authority, independently of the power specially conferred
by the Act of 1911 as amended, to issue the instruction
complained of. The contention is that his instruction to
the Collector was not to compel the bridge company to
pay the cost of the inspection service but merely to withdraw the service unless the company would agree to pay
the cost; that since customs officials cannot be maintained
at every point where merchandise may conceivably enter
from contiguous countries, discretion must rest in the
Secretary to determine whether the character and extent
of the movement at a particular place justifies maintaining them there; and that the instruction given was a
regulation under § 161 of the Revised Statutes which had
the force of law. Haasv. Henkel, 216 U. S. 462,480. To
this contention it is perhaps a sufficient answer to say
that the instruction given was obviously not a determination by the Secretary that the travel over these bridges
on Sundays and holidays was not such as to justify the
Government in maintaining the inspection service. The
travel was heavier on those days than on any other; and
the service had been. maintained continuously for more
than twenty years. But there are other conclusive answers. Section 161 does not confer upon the Secretary
any legislative power. Morrill v. Jones, 106 U. S. 466;
United States v. George, 228 U. S. 14. A regulation to be
valid must be reasonable and must be consistent with law.
The instruction given lacks both of these essentials. To
collect the cost of customs service from vessel owners or
others is virtually laying a tax upon them. This cannot
be done except by specific authorization of Congress.

INTERNATIONAL RY. CO. v. DAVIDSON. 515
506.

Opinion of the Court.

Moreover, unless so authorized, no official or employee
may receive from the Government pay for extra services.
Revised Statutes, § 1764; United States v. Garlinger,169
U. S. 316. Nor may he receive in connection with his services pay from any private source, Act of March 3, 1917,
c. 163, § 1, 39 Stat. 1106. Customs officials especially are
forbidden to receive such payment. Revised Statutes,
§ 1790. Furthermore, to impose upon the company the
obligation of furnishing an indemnity bond covering losses
which may accrue to the Government from the action, not
of the bridge company or of its employees, but of any
passenger who crosses the bridge was clearly unreasonable. It was this.lack of power in the Secretary to impose upon others any part of the cost of the customs
service unless specially authorized by Congress which
led to the enactment also of the earlier legislation concerning special licenses for lading and unlading of
cargoes.1 The instructions here attacked profess to rest,
not upon Revised Statutes, § 161, but upon the Act of
1911 as amended by that of 1920, T. D. 38290; T. D.
38429. The claim of such authority by virtue of the
power to establish regulations for the Department was
apparently first made in this suit.
It is further contended that the petitioner has no standing to question the regulation which applies not to it,
but to the owners of private conveyances and of personal
baggage brought over the bridge. While these also might
be entitled to seek redress, it is clear that the instructions
given threaten vital interests of the bridge company to
which a court of equity should afford protection. The
I See Act of March 3, 1873, c. 240, 17 Stat. 579; Revised Statutes,
§§ 2871, 2872; Acts of June 26, 1884, c. 121, § 25, 23 Stat. 53, 59;
June 5, 1894, c. 92, 28 Stat. 85; May 31, 1900, a. 600, 31 Stat. 249;

December 16, 1902, c. 2, 32 Stat. 753; June 30, 1906, c. 3909, 34 Stat.
633. See also T. D. 28214, in re Act of 1906; T. D. 31562, in re
Act of 1911.

516

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

jurisdiction of this court on appeal was also questioned.
In support of the jurisdiction it is urged that the bill
invoked rights under the Constitution as well as under
the revenue laws; and treaty rights are also pressed upon
us; Spreckels Sugar Refining Co. v. McClain, 192 U. S.
397, 407; Merriam Co. v. Syndicate Publishing Co., 237
U. S. 618, 621. Whether the appeal lies we need not
decide. A writ of certiorari was also applied for and the
question presented is of sufficient importance to require
determination by this court. Montana Mining Co. v. St.
Louis Mining Co., 204 U. S. 204, 213.
Decree reversed.
STATE OF GEORGIA v. STATE OF SOUTH
CAROLINA.
IN EQUITY.

No. 16, Original. Argued January 4, 5, 1922.-Decided January
30, 1922.
1. Under the Beaufortf Convention of April 28, 1787, defining the
boundary between South Carolina and Georgia on the Savannah
River and tributaries, reserving islands to Georgia,-Held: (a)
Where there are no islands in the boundary rivers, the line is on the
water midway between the main banks when the water is at ordinary stage. P. 521. (b) Where there are islands, it is midway
between the island bank and the South Carolina shore, with the
water at ordinary stage. P. 522. (c) Islands in the Chattooga
River, the " most northerly branch or stream" of the Tugaloo, apparently not known as the Chattooga at the time of the Convention, are reserved to Georgia as completely as those in the Savannah and Tugaloo proper. P. 522.
2. The general rule is that where a river, navigable or nonnavigable,
is the boundary between two States, and the navigable channel is
not involved, in the absence of convention or controlling circumstances to the contrary, each takes to the middle of the stream.
P. 521.

