CENTRAL R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 247
244.

Syllabus.

the notice to creditors to present their claims within nine
months was begun on November 7, 1900. On August 8,
1901, that court entered an order declaring that creditors
who had neglected to do so, were barred. On July 1, 1902,
the only unadjusted matters, so far as shown, were claims
for taxes for relatively small sums. These were not finally
disposed of until November, 1903.
On July 1, 1902, therefore, the trustees were entitled to
the possession of the funds and all the beneficiaries to the
immediate enjoyment of the income thereof, with the exception of the amount involved in controversies over
taxes. The executors might then have paid over the
balance of the estate in their hands to the trustees, retaining funds sufficient to satisfy the claims in dispute.
The amount on which the taxes here in question were
assessed is not shown to have exceeded the amount of
such balance. The beneficial interests were, therefore,
vested; and taxes were properly assessed thereon. In Vanderbilt v. Eidman, 196 U. S. 480, and Uterhart v. United
States, 240 U. S. 598, the facts were different.
Affirmed.
CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY OF NEW JERSEY ET AL. v. UNITED STATES AND INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 436.

Argued November 17, 1921.-Decided December 5, 1921.

1. Orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission may be set aside
when based upon mistake of law. P. 256.
2. The Commission has power under § 1 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended, to determine in particular cases whether the
granting or withholding of a transit privilege is unreasonable and
unjust, and to require its allowance or its withdrawal accordingly.
So held of the privilege of "creosoting-in-transit," whereby forest
products may be unloaded at an intermediate point, subjected to

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellants.

257 U. S.

the process of creosoting and forwarded on the original bill of
lading to the destination therein named, without depriving the
shipper of the benefit of through rates. P. 257.
3. What Congress sought to prevent by § 3 of the Act to Regulate
Commerce ivas not differences between localities in transportation
rates, facilities and privileges, but unjust discrimination between
them by the same carrier or carriers. P. 259.
4. Participation in joint rates does not make connecting carriers
partners, and they can be held jointly and severally responsible for
unjust discrimination only if each has participated in some way in
that which causes it. P. 259.
5. Neither the Transportation Act of 1920, nor any earlier amendatory legislation, has changed, in this repect, the purpose or scope
of § 3. P. 260.
6. Where the Commission found that denial of the creosoting privilege
to a plant located at q point on the lines of certain carriers was not
in itself unjust or unreasonable, but concluded that the plant suffered undue prejudice and disadvantage because they and other
carrieis before the Commission maintained joint rates, over routes
passing through the point, in common with still other carriers, not
parties, who had allowed the privilege to plants on their own
lines as an item in their local tariffs and without the concurrence
of the carriers before the Commission or participation by them in
the revenues from the privilege, held, that the case was not remediable under § 3 of the Act to Regulate Commerce and that an
order requiring the carriers proceeded against to remove the dis
crimination should be set aside. P. 257.
Reversed.

.kP iAL from a decree of the District Court denying a
preliminary injunction in a suit brought by the Central
Railroad Company of New Jersey, the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, and twenty-one other railroad corporations, to set aside an order made by the Interstate Com-

merce Commission.
Mr. Henry Wolf Bikl6 and Mr. Alexander H. Elder,
with whom Mr. Charles E. Miller was on the brief, for

appellants.
A carrier is not chargeable with a violation of § 3 of the
Interstate Commerce Act unless it participates in the

CENTRAL R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 249
247.

Argument for Appellants.

service which is claimed to cause the undue prejudice
prohibited.
In other words, there is no infraction of the section unless a carrier, serving two shippers, treats them differently
in respect to the service which it renders, without just
cause.

The applicable portion of § 3 is the first paragraph (24
Stat. 380). Paragraph 3 very clearly does not apply to
the present litigation. It will also be found that neither
paragraph 2, nor paragraph 4, of § 3, has any application.
Section 15 is one of the jurisdictional sections of the
act. It does not expand the duties and obligations which
are devolved upon the carriers by the other sections, principally § § 1, 2, 3 and 4, but it establishes the power of the
Commission to enforce these duties and obligations. As
illustrated by the Tank Car Case, United States v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 242 U. S. 208, carrier duties and commission power are not necessarily correlative.
Section 3 forbids any common carrier making or giving
any undue or unreasonable preference or advantage to any
particular person, or subjecting any particular person, etc.,
to undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage. The
prohibition against undue prejudice and disadvantage is
the correlative of the prohibition against undue preference and advantage. The very word "preference" carries
with it the thought of different treatment of two patrons
by th6 same carrier. So also with respect to the words
"advantage" or "disadvantage" and "prejudice," no
carrier can create any advantage or disadvantage, or-undue prejudice, unless, by its act, it places the one shipper
in a more or less favorable position than it places the
other. If this were not true the disadvantage, prejudice,
etc., would arise not from its act, but from extraneous circumstances, with the result, illustrated in the case at bar,
that a carrier would be required to accord a privilege,

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellants.

257 U. S.

found upon hearing not reasonably demandable as to that
carrier, merely because some other carrier granted the
privilege under circumstances not in proof.
The decisions hold that, if a given commodity may be
shipped to a common destination from different points of
origin via the lines of two different carriers, there is no
violation of § 3 even though the rates may be on an entirely different basis, relatively, and even though the effect
of such different bases of rates is practically to exclude the
shippers located at one point of origin from the common
market. East Tennessee, &c. Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 181 U. S. 1, 18. The Interstate Commerce Commission, in many cases, has followed this construction of the act.
It is manifest that in the present case the Commission
has made a new departure which it seeks to justify upon
the provisions of the Transportation Act, 1920. But no
change was effected by this act in the applicable portion
of § 3 of the Interstate Commerce Act. The Commission
makes the general statement that the Transportation Act
has greatly enlarged its powers "and among other things
we have been given authority to establish minimum
rates." What connection exists between the minimum
rates and § 3 is not disclosed.
The Interstate Commerce Act prescribes that a carrier
party to a joint tariff must be shown as a participating
carrier, (§ 6, par. 4, 34 Stat. 584). Clearly the law contemplates that a carrier shall not be regarded as participating in tariffs except when it is a party thereto.
While, when a joint through rate is established, it is
ordinarily less than the sum of the combination of rates
on some intermediate point, this is not a necessary feature of a joint rate, and, in fact, thousands of joint rates
are the equivalent of the combination of so-called locals
based on some intermediate point. In such a case, the
handicap resulting to a shipper who does not have the

CENTRAL R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 251
247.

Argument for the United States.

transit privilege, while it is accorded his competitor on
another railroad participating in the transportation of the
shipments, has no relation to the existence or non-existence of a joint rate. The disadvantage results from the
6stablishment of the local privilege on the connecting
line and the control of and responsibility for this rest
alone with the railroad establishing it. The law requires
the carriers to move the traffic, and no undue prejudice
or discrimination can arise as a result of the service so
rendered.
The Government and the Commission rely on the decision in United States v. Louisville & Nashville R. R.
Co., 235 U. S. 314. But, in that case this court did not
'sustain the Commission's finding under § 3 of the Interstate Commerce Act, but did uphold it under § 4. In this
case there is no pretense that § 4 is involved, or violated.
The case at bar is different also from the other case in
this court, relied on by the Government and the Commission,-St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. United
States, 245 U. S. 136. The conclusive decision seems to
be Penn Refining Co. v. Western New York & Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 208 U. S. 208, 221.
An order of the Commission based solely upon a violation of § 3 must be in the alternative, leaving the carrier free either to extend the practice or privilege to the
complaining patron or to withdraw it from all. The order in this case, although in form an alternative order,
leaves no real alternative in fact and actual operation.
If § 3 were construed as the Commission has construed
it in this case, it would be unconstitutional as violative of
the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment.
Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck
was on the brief, for the United States.
Appellants 'concur with connecting lines in publishing
tariffs of through routes and joint rates. Presumably they

252

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Interstate Commerce Commission. 257 U. S.

do that for the benefits and advantages they derive therefrom. In order to reap the rewards which flow from the
Interstate Commerce Acts with solidarity they stand
united. They should be gauged in that way, and not disconnectedly, when injury results in applying those rates.
To hold that single companies by specific acts may at
favored places and in selected instances break that unification and solidarity, to the advantage of shippers at those
favored places and to the undue prejudice of other shippers at unfavored places, is to annihilate the statute.
As the Commission drew the order in the alternative, it
may be assumed that it will accept compliance by allowing either the withdrawal of the appellants from the
through routes and joint rates or the installation of creosoting-in-transit at Newark. Great Northern Ry. Co. v.
Minnesota, 238 U. S. 340. Distinguishing Penn Refining
Co. v. Western New York & PennsylvaniaR. R. Co., 208
U. S. 208' and Philadelphia& Reading Ry. Co. v. United
States, 240 U. S. 334. Counsel fail in their endeavor to
distinguish St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. United
States, 245 U. S. 136.
Mr. Walter McFarland,with whom Mr. P. J. Farrell
was on the brief, for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
What amounts to undue preference or prejudice is a
question not of law, but of fact, with which the Commission was created to deal. United States v. Louisville &
Nashville R. R. Co., 235 U. S. 314, 320; PennsylvaniaCo.
v. United States, 236 U. S. 351, 361; Interstate Commerce
Commission v. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R.
Co., 220 U. S. 235, 255.
Appellants can comply with the order by pursuing any
one of the following courses: (a) Establish the transit
service at Newark; (b) cancel their participation in the
joint rates through Newark; or (c) qualify their concur-

CENTRAL R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 253
247.

Opinion of the Court.

rence in such rates to joint rates through Newark in connection with which transit service is not accorded at any
point on the through route.
They are the principal carriers in trunk line and New
England rate territories, and without their cooperation it
would be impossible to subject the American Creosoting
Company at Newark to undue prejudice.
The fact that a carrier has a certain policy can have no
bearing upon its duty to obey the statute and lawful
orders.
While it is true that appellants do not publish the
transit services accorded to the favored competitors, it is
equally true that their partners in the joint through rates
do publish them and that by continuing to participate in
the joint through rates appellants have made possible, and
have made themselves effective instrumentalities in the
execution of, the undue prejudice condemned by the Commission. Houston, East & West Texas Ry. Co. v. United
States, 234 U. S. 342, 36; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co., 218 U. S.
88, 102, 103. St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. United
States, 245 U. S. 136, is controlling in principle.
MR. JusTicE BRANDEIs

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This suit was brought in the Federal District Court for
New Jersey to enjoin the enforcement of an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission on the ground that it
exceeds the powers of the Commission, was arbitrary and
is void. The plaintiffs were the Central Railroad of New
Jersey, the Pennsylvania, and twenty-one other railroads
located in Trunk Line territory and New England. The
defendants were the United States and the Interstate
Commerce Commission. The former filed a motion to
dismiss; the latter an answer which admitted the material
allegations of the bill of complaint. On these pleadings

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

the case was heard before three judges on an application
for a preliminary injunction. This was denied without
written opinion; and the case is here on appeal under the
Act of October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 220.
The order of the Commission was entered upon a petition of the American Creosoting Company to which these
twenty-three carriers--and no others '-were made respondents. American CreosotingCo. v. Director General,
61 I. C. C. 145. It alleged that the petitioner had a
creosoting plant at Newark, New Jersey, which was connected by switch tracks with the Central and the Pennsylvania; that these carriers had failed to establish there
the privilege known as creosoting-in-transit; that this
failure was unjust and unreasonable in violation of § 1
of the Act to Regulate Commerce of February 4, 1887, as
amended; and that it was also unjustly discriminatory
in violation of § 3. The Commission found that failure to
establish this transit privilege was not unjust or unreasonable and denied relief under § 1. But it found on the
facts hereinafter stated that this failure subjected the
company to unjust discriminationt; and, granting relief
under § 3, the Commission directed that the discrimination be removed by the respondents, who are the appellants here.
By the privilege called creosoting-in-transit, forest
products received for shipment may be stopped and unloaded at an intermediate point, there subjected to the
process of creosoting, and later forwarded on the original
bill of lading to the destination therein named. Where
the privilege is granted and availed of, delivery is made
of the commodity to the creosoting plant, as if that were
the final destination. It is there unloaded and treated;
'Except the New York, Ontario and Western Railway Company,
another carrier in the Trunk Line territory, whose interests were
presumably not affected by the order. The number of carriers is,
therefore, referred to herein as being twenty-three.

CENTRAL R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 255
247.

Opinion of the Court.

and at some time thereafter it is redelivered to the carrier, as if there were an initial shipment of the creosoted
product. Then it is forwarded to the final destination.
Although some charge is made for the transit service, the
shipper secures thereby a lower freight rate. For through
rates are generally much less than the rate on the untreated forest product from point of origin to the transit
point plus that on the treated product from there to
destination.
The plant of the American Creosoting Company is not
reached by lines of any of the twenty-three appellants except the Central and the Pennsylvania. Neither of these
two carriers accords the creosoting-in-transit privilege at
any point on its lines; and no competitor of the company
has a plant on those of either. Nor is the privilege
granted in Trunk Line territory by any carrier, with a
single exception not here material. Some competitors
of the American Creosoting Company have plants in Mississippi, Indiana, Illinois, Ohio and Pennsylvania; and
the several railroads on which these plants are located
have, each acting independently, established the privilege
at the places where those plants are situated. Under the
rules of the Commission governing the making, filing and
publishing of tariffs, privileges like creosoting-in-transit
are treated as a matter local to the railroad on which the
transit point is situated. Whether the privilege shall be
granted or withheld is determined by the local carrier. If
granted, the local carrier determines the conditions; and
these are set forth in the local tariff. Although a joint
through route with joint rates is established by concurrent
action of several carriers, the transit privilege may thus
be granted by a carrier without the consent of, and
without consulting, connecting carriers. And the whole
revenue received for use of the privilege is retained by
the local carrier. The appellants did not participate in
any way in establishing the transit privileges enjoyed by

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

competitors of the Newark concern on lines of the southern and midwestern carriers; and none of those carriers
is controlled by any of the appellants. But appellants did
join with those southern and midwest railroads in establishing joint rates on forest products over routes which
pass through the points at which this privilege prevails
and also through Newark.1
The order entered by the Commission declares that the
twenty-three carriers "in so far as they respectively participate in tariffs carrying joint rates" on these forest
products

"through

Newark

. . . from points in

southern classification territory to points in northern
New Jersey, eastern New York, and in New England"
subject the American Creosoting Company to undue
prejudice and disadvantage; and it directs these twentythree carriers to avoid this undue prejudice. How the
discrimination shall be removed is not prescribed. In
effect the order directs that unless the Central and the
Pennsylvania establish the privilege at Newark, the
twenty-three carriers must withdraw from all tariffs establishing the joint rates. As to administrative orders operating in futuro, the Commission's findings of fact are conclusive, subject to qualifications here not pertinent; and
a finding that the discrimination is unjust is ordinarily a
finding of fact. ManufacturersRy. Co. v. United States,
246 U. S. 457, 481, 482. But the question presented here
is whether the discrimination found can be held in law
to be attributable to the appellants, and whether they
can be required to cancel existing joint rates, unless it is
removed. No finding made by the Commission can pre'The transit privilege so granted includes cutting of paving blocks
into shape at creosoting plant. On some of the railroads the joint
rates do not apply through the transit point. On them the privilege
includes an out-of-line movement and-on some lines also a back haulto reach final destination. This broadened privilege was sought for
Newark.

CXENTRAL R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 257
247.

Opinion of the Court.

vent the review of u h questions. Interstate Commerce
Commission v. bienbaugh,222 U. S. 42; Philadelphia&
Reading Ry. Co. v. United States, 240 U. S. 334.
Creosoting-itt=transit, like other transit privileges, rests
upon the fiction that the incoming and the outgoing transportation services, which are in fact distinct, constitute a
continuous shipment of the identical article from point of
origin to final destination. The practice has its origin
partly in local needs, partly in the competition of carriers
for busiless, The practice is sometimes beneficial in its
results; btit it !a open to grave abuses.' To police it adequately is difficult and expensive. Unless adequately
policed, it is an avenue to illegal rebates and seriously
depletes the carriers' revenues. Railroad managers differ
widely a4 to the policy of granting such privileges. The
Commission clearly has power under § 1 of the Act to
Regulate Commerce as amended to determine whether
in a particular case a transit privilege-should be granted
or should be withdrawn, For that section requires, among

other things, that carriers establish, in connection with
through routes and joint rateg, reasonable rules and regulations. The Commission might, therefore, acting under
§ 1, have directed the Central and the Pennsylvania to
establish the creosoting-n-transit practice at Newark, if
it deemed failure to do so unreasonable or unjust; or it
might, in an appropriate proceeding, have directed the
southern and midwestern carriers to discontinue the practice on their lines, if it deemed the granting of the privilege to be unreasonable or unjust. But it did neither.
Instead it sought to accomplish by indirection either one
result or the other and ordered under § 3 that the discrimination found to exist be removed. Twenty-one of
the appellants axe powerless either to cause the Central
ISee In Matter of Alleged Unlawful Rates and Practices,7 I. C. C.
2 10; In Matter of Substitution of Tonnage at Transit Points, 18
1. C. C. 280; The Transit Case, 24 I. C. C. 340.

258

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

and the Pennsylvania to instal the privilege at Newark
or to cause the southern and midwestern carriers to discontinue the practice on their lines. The Central and
the Pennsylvania are likewise powerless to cause these
connecting carriers to withdraw the privilege. They can,
it is true, equalize conditions by establishing the privilege
at Newark. But to do so would involve departure from
a policy to which they have steadfastly adhered and adhesion to which was held by the Commission not to be
unreasonable. If they should establish the privilege at
Newark, they would act contrary to their judgment and
would adopt a practice which some connecting carriers
had introduced without their concurrence or consent, and
which may hereafter, upon appropriate enquiry, be held
by the Commission to be unjust and unreasonable. Congress could not have intended that under such circumstances relief should be afforded under § 3, when a direct
remedy is available under § 1.
It is insisted that the order leaves appellants the alternative of withdrawing from the tariffs which establish
joint rates with the southern and midwestern carriers
through Newark. The order does not so provide in terms;
and in fact the alleged alternative is illusory. The undue
prejudice found arises not from the existence of joint
rates, but from conditions local to other railroads. Cancellation of the joint rates would not change those conditions. Although the joint rates were withdrawn, the
established through routes would remain. The duty to
provide such routes is specifically enjoined by paragraph
4 of § 1; and, under the provisions of paragraph I of § 6,
the separately established rates of the several connecting
carriers would, in the absence of joint rates, apply to
through transportation. So far as appears the Newark
concern would be under the same disadvaitage as compared with its competitors, whether the traffic moved on
the combination of the rates local to the several lines or

CENTRAL R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 259
247.

Opinion of the Court.

on joint rates. Even the abolition of the through route5
(which is not suggested) would leave the relative positions of the several creosoting concerns unchanged. Can,
ce iaitn of the joint rates would, at most, relieve appellants from the charge that they are -violating the provisions of § 3.
It is urged that, while the undue prejudice found results directly from the individual acts of southern and
midwestern carriers in granting the privilege locally, the
appellants, as their partners, make the prejudice possible
by becoming the instruments through which it is applied.
Discrimination may, of course, be practiced by a combination of connecting carriers as well as by an individual
railroad; and the Commission has ample power under § 3
to remove discrimination so practiced. See St. Louis
Southwestern Ry. Co. v. United States, 245 U. S. 136,
144. But participation merely in joint rates does not
make connecting carriers partners. They can be held
jointly and severally responsible for unjust discrimination
only if each carrier has participated in some way in that
which causes the unjust discrimination; as where a lower
joint rate is given to one locality than to another similarly
situated. Penn Refining Co. v. Western New York &
Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 208 U. S. 208, 221, 222, 225.
Compare East Tennessee, Virginia & Georgia Ry. Co. v.
Interstate Commerce Commission, 181 U. S. 1, 18. If this
were not so, the legality or illegality of a carrier's practice would depend, not on its own act, but on the acts
of its connecting carriers. If that rule should prevail,
only uniformity in local privileges and practices or the
cancellation of all joint rates could afford to carriers the
assurance that they were not in some way violating the
provisions of § 3. What Congress sought to prevent by
that section, as originally enacted, was not differences
between localities in transportation rates, facilities and
privileges, but unjust discrimination between them by the

260

OCTOBER TERM 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

same carrier or carriers. Neither the Transportation Act
1920, February 28, 1920, c. 91, 41 Stat. 456, nor any earlier
amendatory legislation has changed, in this respect, the
purpose or scope of § 3.
Reversed.
CURTIS, RECEIVER OF ATLANTIC NATIONAL
BANK OF PROVIDENCE, R. I. v. CONNLY
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPFALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 69. Argued November 16, 17, 1921.-Decided December 12,
1921.
1. The state statute of limitations applies to a suit in a federal court
by a receiver of a national bank against its former directors to recover for losses sustained by the bank through improper loans and
investments and dividends paid out of capital. P. 262.
2. Such a suit being based on the common-law right of the bank, the
statute will not be tolled upbn the ground of fraudulent concealment of the cause of action (Gen. Laws, R. I., 1909, c. 284, § 7)
where the bank was put on notice by the entries on its own books.

P. 262.
3. Where the misrepresentations relied on for suspending the statute
of limitations were the entering at their face value upon the
books, and in reports made to the Comptroller and published, of
loans and investments known by the defendant directors to be improper or worthless, held: (a) That the bank was chargeable with
notice of the parties to whom loans had been made and the specific
character of assets; (b) that the representations to be implied
from the reports could not be taken as continuing after they had
been superseded by later reports; (c) that the misrepresentations
of value imported by the valuations on the books were not a concealment of the cause of action after new directors, not in conspiracy with the defendants, came upon the board and knew the
facts, since their knowledge was imputable to the bank, even if they
also proved unfaithful. P. 264.
4. The running of a statute of limitations on a cause of action of a
bank against directors-will not be suspended by its fraudulent con-

