216

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

takes the risk of the construction that will be put upon the
statute and the scope of the agency by the State Court.
Pennsylvania FireInsurance Co. v. Gold Issue Mining &
Milling Co., 243 U. S. 93. But the reasons for a limited
interpretation of a compulsory assent are hardly less
strong when the assent is expressed by the appointment
of an agent than when it is implied from going into business in the State without appointing one. In the latter
case the implication is limited to business transacted
within the State. Simon v. Southern Ry. Co., 236 U. S.
115, 131, 132. Old Wayne Mutual Life Association v.
McDonough, 204 U. S. 8, 22, 23. Unless the state law
either expressly or by local construction gives to the appointment a larger scope, we should not construe it to
extend to suits in respect of business transacted by the
foreign corporation elsewhere, at least if begun, as this
was, when the long previous appointment of the agent is
the only ground for imputing to the defendant an even
technical presence. Chipman, Ltd. v. Thomas B. Jeffery
Co., 251 U. S. 373. The indications of the Ohio statutes,
so far as they go, look to "liability incurred within this
State." Gen. Code § 181. As we know of no decision to
the contrary by the Supreme Court of Ohio, we are of
opinion that the service upon Nash was bad.
Judgment affirmed.
NORTH PACIFIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY v.
SOLEY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 63. Submitted November 7, 1921.-Decided December 5, 1921.
1. It is the duty of the District Court to dismiss, whenever it appears to its satisfaction that the suit does not really and substantially involve the requisite jurisdictional amount. Jud. Code,
§§ 24, 37. P. 221.

NORTH PAC. S. S. CO. v. SOLEY.
216.

Argument for Appellant.

2. When this question is raised by answer, the District Court will
decide it upon the facts adduced and this court will review the
decision upon the evidence as one presenting a jurisdictional
question. P. 221.
3. In a suit to enjoin execution of an award for disabling personal
injuries, made under the California Compensation Act and requiring present payments and future indemnity payments during a maximum period, it was proven that the defendant was

cured before the bill was filed, so that the total liability was less
than $3,000, though it would have been more had his disability
continued, and that the award had been reduced accordingly .by
action of the proper authority, upon his application, while the suit
was pending. Held, that the District Court had no jurisdiction.

P. 221.

Affirmed.
DnRECT appeal from a judgment of the District Court,
dismissing after a hearing for want of jurisdiction.
Mr. Ernest Clewe and Mr. Frank W. Aitken for appellant.
The circumstances existing at the time of filing the bill
of complaint are determinative of jurisdiction. Way v.
Clay, 140 Fed. 352. This being the case, the order of the
Commission entered August 25, 1919, terminating the liability of appellant as of December 10, 1917, cannot enter
into the question.
The award of the Commission commanded payment to
appellee of $3,496.60. The maximum sum which appellant could eventually be called upon to pay under its
terms was definitely determined and did not depend upon
any affirmative contingency. The obligation of appellant to pay the total sum had at that time been imposed
upon it by the Commission as fully and completely as that
body could have imposed it in any case.
Having filed the findings and award in the Superior
Court and having obtained a judgment thereon, appellee's
legal right and power to collect the full sum of $3,496.60

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

by means of a series of levies of execution was complete.
He could not be deprived thereof save by a further order
of the Commission filed in the Superior Court.
Appellant was not bound to seek relief before the Commission. Remer v. Mackay, 35 Fed. 86.
The value of the matter in dispute exceeded, exclusive
of interest and costs, $3,000. The object of the appellant
in this action was to be rendered secure in its property to
the same extent that it stood menaced by the award and
judgment. Glenwood Light Co. v. Mutual Light Co., 239
U. S. 121; Lee v. Watson, 1 Wall. 337; Bureau of National
Literaturev. Sells, 211 Fed. 379.
Where, as in this case, the jurisdictional amount is
pleaded in good faith or the determination of the amount
involved depends upon issues of fact or law, the court has
jurisdiction. Interstate Building & Loan Association v.
Edgefield Hotel Co., 109 Fed. 692-694; Stillwell-Bierce
Co. v. Williamston Oil Co., 80 Fed. 68.
Mr. Christopher M. Bradley, for appellee. Mr. Herbert N. Ellis and Mr. Henry Heidelberg were also on the
brief.

IMR. JUSTICE

DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is here solely upon the question of the jurisdiction of the District Court to entertain the suit. The
bill was filed in the District Court by the North Pacific
Steamship Company against the Industrial Accident
Commission of California, William T. Soley, and H. I.
Mulcrevy, County Clerk of the City and County of San
Francisco. The bill alleged that the complainant was engaged in the business of transportation in interstate commerce between various points on the Pacific Coast, and
operated the steamer "Breakwater "; that on or about
the 12th of June, 1916, the said steamer, then in the navigable waters of the United States loading cargo, had in its

NORTH PAC. S. S. CO. v. SOLEY.
216.

Opinion of the Court.

employ the respondent, Soley, as a stevedore, and that
said Soley was injured by falling down a hatchway of the
steamer; that on the 27th day of November, 1916, Soley
filed an application with the Industrial Accident Commission for damages under the Compensation Act of California; that, after a hearing, the Commission made the
following award:
"1. Cash in hand the sum of two hundred eighty-one
dollars and twenty-five cents ($281.25), this amount
being the sum of weekly payments of said disability indemnity accrued up to and including the 18th day of
December, 1916, less, however, the sum of thirty dollars
($30.00), to be deducted therefrom and paid to Herbert N.
Ellis as his attorney's fee, as attorney for the applicant
herein.
"2. The further sum of eleven dollars and twenty-five
cents ($11.25) per week payable weekly in advance beginning with the 19th day of December, 1916, until the
termination of said disability or the further order of this
Commission, the total period of payment however not to
exceed two hundred forty weeks.
"3. Cash in hand the sum of five hundred fifteen dollars and thirty-five cents ($515.35) for medical and hospital services rendered as follows:
Agnew Sanitarium ..................
Dr. E. H. Crabtree ................
Dr. Maynard C. Harding ............
Dr. L. C. Kinney, for X-ray .........

$149.85
152.00
203.50
10. 00"

The bill averred that by virtue of the award the complainant had been ordered to pay Soley $3,015.35.
The bill further alleged that at the time of his injury
Soley ,was engaged in the performance of a maritime contract aboard a vessel in the navigable waters of the United
States engaged in interstate commerce; that his remedy
was exclusively within the admiralty and maritime juris-

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

diction of the courts of the United States; that under
§ 26 of the Compensation Act a certified copy of the findings and award may be filed with the clerk of the Superior
Court, and, that upon filing the copy of the findings and
the award, execution may be issued upon the judgment;
that Soley had filed certified copies of the findings and the
award with the clerk of the Superior Court, and, unless
restrained by injunction, would cause execution to be
issued thereon for the purpose of making the amount of
the award out of the property of the complainant. The
bill prayed an injunction against any steps for the enforcement of the award.
Respondent, Soley, appeared and answered, and, among
other things, set up:
"Defendant denies that the value of the matter in controversy herein exclusive of interest and costs exceeds the
sum of three thousand dollars; and alleges that the weekly
indemnity of eleven and 25/100 dollars awarded to defendant from complainant under the terms of said award
and judgment was contingent upon the continuance of
defendant's total disability, as appears at the foot of page
4 of complainant's bill, and that at the time of the filing
of complainant's bill herein defendant's said total disability had terminated and all of complainant's subsequent liability under the terms of said award of the Industrial Accident Commission of the State of California
had ceased; that the total liability of complainant under
said judgment sought herein to be enjoined does not and
will not exceed exclusive of interest and costs the sum
of thirteen hundred eighty-one and 60/100 dollars
($1,381.60)."
In order that the District Court have jurisdiction of the
cause it was necessary that the amount in controversy exceed exclusive of interest and costs the sum or value of
$3,000. -(Judicial Code, § 24.) Section 37 of the Judicial
Code provides that "if in any suit commenced in a dis-

NORTH PAC. S. S. CO. v. SOLEY.
216.

Opinion of the Court.

trict court .
.
it shall appear to the satisfacti6n of
the said district court, at any time after said suit has been
brought . . . that such suit does not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within
the jurisdiction of said district court . . . the said district court shall proceed no further therein, but shall dismiss the suit . . . and shall make such order as to costs
as shall be just." Section 37 with the substitution of district court for circuit court is.a reanactment of the Act of
March 3, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470, 472.
The objection that jurisdiction to entertain the suit did
not exist is one which may be takeii by answer. Anderson
v. Watt, 138 U. S.694. Indeed, under § 37 it is the duty
of the court, when it shall appear to its satisfaction that
the suit does not really and substantially involve the
necessary amount to give it jurisdiction, to dismiss the
same, and this the court may do whether the parties raise
the question or not. In the present case the issue was
raised by answer, and, therefore, it became necessary for
the court to determine the question of jurisdiction upon
the facts presented, and when brought directly here, it is
the duty of this court to review the decision upon the testimony as one presenting a jurisdictional. question. Wetmore v. Rymer, 169 U. S.115; Gilbertv. David, 235 U. S.
561.
The award upon which the suit was brought provided
for the payment of $11.25 per week in advance beginning
on December 19, 1916, until the termination of Soley's
disability or the further order of the Commission, the
total period of payment not to exceed 240 weeks. Upon
the hearing upon the question of jurisdiction a copy of
the findings and award of the Commission was put in
evidence. Soley was called, and testified among other
things, that after his doctor told him that he was cured
he went back to work on or about December 10, 1917, and
had been working ever since, and had made no claim upon

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

his employer since that time. An order of the Commission, filed August 25, 1919, was introduced in evidence,
from which the Commission found that the disability
suffered by Soley terminated on the 10th day of December, 1917; that the disability indemnity payable to him
up to and including December 10, 1917, amounted to $855,
which together with the medical expenses theretofore
awarded amounted to $515.35, making a total of $1,370.35,
the total liability of the company to Soley by reason of
his injury. It was also stipulated between the parties
that the award in favor of Soley, a copy of which was in
evidence, had been filed in the office of the clerk of the
City and County of San Francisco, that a writ of execution had issued against the complainant on November 12,
1917, to satisfy said judgment to the extent of the amount
which had accrued under such findings and award, which
was less than $1,500; that said writ was returned unsatisfied; that the application of Soley for the termination of
the award was made on August 20, 1919.
A witness was called who testified that at the time of
the injury to Soley the steamer "Breakwater" was engaged in interstate commerce between ports on the Pacific
coast.
Upon these facts the District Court found that the jurisdictional amount was not involved. In our judgment it
did not err in reaching that conclusion. The award provided for weekly payments until the termination of the
disability or until the further order of the Commission.
The testimony showed that Soley had been pronounced
cured by his physician, and had returned to work on December 10, 1917, eight days before the action was brought.
The order of the Commission, terminating the disability
indemnity, found that the disability suffered by reason of
the injury had terminated on December 10, 1917, and that
the total liability of the defendant was $1,370.35. Under

HURLEY v. COMMISSION OF FISHERIES. 223
216.

Argument for Appellant.

these circumstances the court reached the conclusion that
the jurisdictional amount was not involved. This conclusion, being sustained by the evidence, it was the duty
of the court to proceed no further with the case.
Affirmed.

HURLEY v. COMMISSION OF FISHERIES OF
VIRGINIA ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.

No. 33.

Argued October 10, 11, 192l.-Decided December 5, 1921.

Decree of the District Court refusing a preliminary injunction, but
not dismissing the bill, in a suit to enjoin the appellees from removing stakes, etc., designating oyster grounds planted by appellant, and thereby opening them to public use,-affirmed.
264 Fed. 116, affirmed.

For a fuller statement of the case see the report of the
case below.
Mr. Thomas B. Snead and Mr. S. S. P. Patteson,with
whom Mr. Herbert I. Lewis and Mr. Thomas J. Downing
were on the brief, for appellant.
Their principal contentions may be summarized as follows:
The statute of Virginia, known as the Oyster Law, (Acts
1910, c. 343) contains only two sections applicable to the
case at bar, to wit, §§ 15 and 39. These provide for the
resurveying of planting grounds, and in neither, nor in any
other portion of the oyster laws, is any provision for a trial
of the rights of an oyster planter, lessee of the State,
whose beds adjoin the Baylor line, demarking the natural
oyster grounds reserved to the public.

