516

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

jurisdiction of this court on appeal was also questioned.
In support of the jurisdiction it is urged that the bill
invoked rights under the Constitution as well as under
the revenue laws; and treaty rights are also pressed upon
us; Spreckels Sugar Refining Co. v. McClain, 192 U. S.
397, 407; Merriam Co. v. Syndicate Publishing Co., 237
U. S. 618, 621. Whether the appeal lies we need not
decide. A writ of certiorari was also applied for and the
question presented is of sufficient importance to require
determination by this court. Montana Mining Co. v. St.
Louis Mining Co., 204 U. S. 204, 213.
Decree reversed.
STATE OF GEORGIA v. STATE OF SOUTH
CAROLINA.
IN EQUITY.

No. 16, Original. Argued January 4, 5, 1922.-Decided January
30, 1922.
1. Under the Beaufortf Convention of April 28, 1787, defining the
boundary between South Carolina and Georgia on the Savannah
River and tributaries, reserving islands to Georgia,-Held: (a)
Where there are no islands in the boundary rivers, the line is on the
water midway between the main banks when the water is at ordinary stage. P. 521. (b) Where there are islands, it is midway
between the island bank and the South Carolina shore, with the
water at ordinary stage. P. 522. (c) Islands in the Chattooga
River, the " most northerly branch or stream" of the Tugaloo, apparently not known as the Chattooga at the time of the Convention, are reserved to Georgia as completely as those in the Savannah and Tugaloo proper. P. 522.
2. The general rule is that where a river, navigable or nonnavigable,
is the boundary between two States, and the navigable channel is
not involved, in the absence of convention or controlling circumstances to the contrary, each takes to the middle of the stream.
P. 521.

GEORGIA v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
516.

Opinion of the Court.

3. The location of the boundary under the above convention, held
unaffected by the Thalweg or Main Navigable Channel doctrine,
in view of the provision that each State shall have equal right§ of
navigation on the streams. P. 521.

ORIGINAL suit to define a boundary between States.

Mr. Geo. M. Napier, Attorney General of the State of
Georgia, and Mr. Thos. F. Green, with whom Mr. Seward
M. Smith was on the brief, for complainant.
Mr. S. M. Wolfe, Attorney General of the State of
South Carolina, and Mr. A. M. Lumpkin for defendant.
MR. JusTIOR CAR.xz delivered the opinion of the court.

The parties to this case agree: That the boundary line
between the States of Georgia and South Carolina is the
river Savannah from the sea to the junction of the Seneca
(formerly Keowee) and the Tugaloo (formerly spelled
Tugalo) rivers; that it continues thence northwesterly by
the Tugaloo river to the junction of the Tallulah and
Chattooga rivers, and thence by the Chattooga river to the
35th parallel of north latitude, which is the south boundary of North Carolina. But they differ as to the location
of the boundary line in these three rivers, and the State of
Georgia, by original bill, prays that the controversy be
settled by a decree of this court.
The State of Georgia contends: That, where there are
no islands in the rivers, the line between the two States
is midway between the river banks, when the water is at
its ordinary stage; that, where there are islands, this line
deflects and follows the middle line of the most northerly
branch or stream, where it runs between any island and
the South Carolina shore; and it claims jurisdiction over
all islands in all three boundary rivers.
South Carolina, on the other hand, admits in its answer
that where there are no islands the line between the States
is the "middle thread of the stream where the rivers flow

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

in one stream or volume," but at the bar and in its brief
it is argued, strenuously, that the true line is the low water
mark on the southerly or Georgia bank of each river.
It also claims that where there are islands the line is at
low water mark on the southerly bank of the most northerly stream or branch of the river, and, while conceding
all the islands in the rivers Savannah and Tugaloo to
Georgia, it denies the jurisdiction of that State over those
in the Chattooga river.
Thus it will be seen that the controversy is limited to
the determination: (1) Whether the boundary line shall
be located midway between the banks of each river where
there are no islands, or at low water mark on the Georgia
shore; (2) Whether the location of the boundary line
where there are islands in the rivers, is in the middle of the
stream running between any island and the South Carolina shore, or at low water mark on the southern or island
shore of such stream; and (3) Whether any islands there
may be in the Chattooga river are within the territorial
jurisdiction of Georgia.
The taxation of dams and hydro-electric plants, already
constructed and hereafter to be constructed, in the boundary rivers, renders the decision of the questions involved
of importance to the two States.
It is not necessary to recite or discuss the historic origin
of the titles which the two contending States have to the
territory comprised within their present boundaries, for
it is stipulated that the rights, of the parties are to be
determined by the construction of the terms of a written
convention or treaty, entered into on April 28, 1787, by
commissioners appointed by the two States. This convention, entered into pursuant to the provisions of the
Articles of Confederation of 1778, under which the States
were then united for the purposes of government, having
been executed at Beaufort, South Carolina, is designated
in the record as the Beaufort Convention.

GEORGIA v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
516.

519

Opinion of the Court.

Only two articles of this Convention need be considered,
and they are as follows:
"Art. i. The most northern branch or stream of the
river Savannah, from the sea or mouth of such stream to
the fork or confluence of the rivers now called Tugalo and
Keowee; and from thence, the most northern branch or
stream of the said river Tugalo, till it intersects the northern boundary line of South Carolina, if the said branch or
stream of Tugalo extends so far north, reserving all the
islands in the said rivers Savannah and Tugalo to Georgia; but if the head spring or source of any branch or
stream of the said river Tugalo does not extend to the
north boundary line of South Carolina, then a west line
to the Mississippi, to be drawn from the head spring or
source of the said branch or stream of Tugalo river, which
extends to the highest northern latitude, shall for ever
hereafter form the separation limits and boundary between the states of South Carolina and Georgia.
"Art. II. The navigation of the river Savannah at and
from the bar and mouth, along the northeast side of Cockspur island, and up the direct course of the main northern
channel along the north side of Hutchinson's Island, opposite the town of Savannah, to the upper end of said
island, and from thence up the bed or principal stream
of the said river to the confluence of the rivers Tugalo and
Keowee, and from the confluence up the channel of the
most northern stream of Tugalo river to its source, and
back again by the same channel to the Atlantic Oceanis hereby declared to be henceforth equally free to the
citizens of both states, and exempt from all duties, tolls,
hinderance, interruption, and molestation whatsoever, attempted to be enforced by one state on the citizens of
another; and all the rest of the river Savannah to the
southward of the foregoing description, is acknowledged
to be the exclusive right of the state of Georgia."
First. As to the location of the line where there are no
islands. While the admission quoted from the answer of

520

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

South Carolina would be suffcient to justify locating the
line, where there are no islands, in the "middle thread of
the stream where the rivers flow in one stream or volume,"
nevertheless the earnestness with which the contention
for the low water mark on the Georgia shore is argued constrains us to consider the question further.
That the admission in the andwer was not made inadvertently is conclusively shown by the fact that the General Assembly of South Carolina, in 1852, by resolution,
appearing in the record, declared: That the Beaufort Convention defines the boundary between the two States; that
the terms of the first article of that convention "construed
by the undisputed principles of international and common
law, fix, as the limit of the respective jurisdictions of the
two States, . . . the thread or middle of the most north-

ern branch or stream of the rivers Savannah and Tugaloo,
where these rivers have more than one branch or stream,
and the thread or middle of these rivers where there is but
one branch or stream," and that the courts, the-legislature
and the departments of the government of the State have
uniformly given to and acquiesced in this construction of
the Convention.
A like declaration appears in the "Code of the Statute
Law of South Carolina," adopted in 1861, in which the
line where there are no islands is described as located-at
the "middle thread of the stream where the rivers flow in
one stream or volume."
With this construction of Article I of the Convention,
by the courts, general assembly and heads of departments
of South Carolina, we fully agree.
The express reservation of the islands to Georgia and
the placing of the boundary line in the most northerly
branch of the Savannah and then of the Tugaloo river
up to the "northern boundary of South Carolina," makes
it clear that where there are islands in the river the line
must be between them and the South Carolina shore, for

GEORGIA v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
516.

Opinion of the Court.

otherwise the Georgia islands would be within the State
of South Carolina. While it is true that the line, where
there are no islands, is not specifically located by the Convention at the "thread or middle of the stream," neither
is it, in terms, placed at the low water mark on the Georgia
bank. However, the general rule is that where a river,
navigable or non-navigable, is the boundary between two
States, and the navigable channel is not involved, in- the
absence of convention or controlling circumstances to the
contrary, each takes to the middle of the stream (Handly'e
Lessee v. Anthony, 5 Wheat. 374, 379; Hall, International
Law, 6th ed., 123; Creasy First Platform of International
Law, § 231), and therefore in this case the conclusion of
the General Assembly of South Carolina in 1852 and in
1861, as we have quoted it, was clearly the correct one.
We conclude that where, in any of the boundary rivers
here involved, there are no islands the location of the
boundary line between the two States is the thread df the
river-the middle line of the strearm-regardless of the
channel of navigation, the precise location to be determined when the water is at its ordinary stage, "neither
swollen by freshets nor shrunk by drought." Trustees of
Hopkins Academy v. Dickinson, 9 Cush. 544, 552.
Second. As to the location of the boundary line "where
the most northern branch or stream." flows between an
island or islands and the South Carolina shore.
Obviously such a stream may be wide and deep and may
contain the navigable channel of the river, or it may be
narrow and shallow and insignificant in comparison with
the adjacent parts of the river. But such variety of conditions cannot affect the location of the boundary line in
this case, because, by Article II of the Convention, equal
and unrestricted right to navigate the boundary rivers is
secured to the citizens of each State, irrespective of the
location of the navigable channel with respect to the
boundary line.

522

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

Thus, Article II takes out of the case any influence
which the Thalweg or Main Navigable Channel Doctrine
(Iowa v. Illinois, 147 U. S. 1; Arkansas v. Tennessee, 246
U. S.158, 169, 170, 171) might otherwise have had upon
the interpretation to be placed on Article I, by which the
location of the line must be determined, and leaves the
uncomplicated case of a boundary stream between two
States quite unaffected by other considerations.
Thus again we have the case of a stream for a boundary
between two States and with the precise location of the
boundary line unaffected by the Thalweg Doctrine, or by
other circumstances, and again the rule must be applied
that the division line is midway between the banks of
the stream,-here between the island bank on the one
side and the South Carolina bank on the other,-its precise position to be determined when the water is at its
ordinary stage.
Third. As to the islands in the Chattooga River.
Article I, as quoted, makes it plain that the commissioners executing the Convention of Beaufort intended
to provide that the most northern branch of the river
which they knew as the Tugaloo, as far northerly as its
intersection with the northern boundary of South Carolina, if it extended so far north, should be the boundary
line between the two States. It is now known that the
most northern branch of that river extends as far north as
the south boundary line of North Carolina (the 35th
parallel of north latitude) and beyond that the controversy in this case does not extend. The fact that this
"most northerly branch or stream of the Tugalo" has
come to be known as the Chattooga in that part of it
northerly of the junction of the rivers now known as the
Tullulah and Chattooga, neither of which appears by
this record to have been known or named at the time the
Convention was executed, cannot change the rights of the
parties to the Convention, in the islands in that part of

UNITED STATES v. COOK.
516.

Syllabus.

the stream. The Chattooga is but the extension of the
Tugaloo,-the northern branch or stream of that riverand the fact that it is called Chattooga cannot affect the
jurisdiction of Georgia over "all the islands in the said
rivers Savannah and Tugalo" to which State they are
specifically reserved by the Convention. The islands in
the Chattooga River, as well as those in the Savannah
and Tugaloo, were reserved to Georgia by the Convention.
Thus we conclude: (1) Where there are no islands in
the boundary rivers the location of the line between the
two States is on the water midway between -the main
banks of the river when the water is at ordinary stage;
(2) Where there are islands the line is midway between
the island bank and the South Carolina shore when the
water is at ordinary stage; and (3) That islands in the
Chattooga River are reserved to Georgia as completely as
are those in the Savannah or Tugatoo rivers.
Counsel may present a decree, within thirty days, to
carry into effect these conclusions of the court, with or
without a commission to locate and monument the boundary line as they may be advised. The costs of suit will be
equally divided between the two States.
UNITED STATES v. COOK, EXECUTOR OF
EAMES, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 80. Argued January 13, 1922.-Decided February 27, 1922.
Claimants contracted with the Government to plan and supervise
the construction of a public building for a fee, to be paid on
monthly estimates and final completion, of 5 per cent. of the
actual cost of the work executed from their drawings and specifications and under their supervision, as shown upon the books of
the Supervising Architect by the net amount of construction con-

