NORTH DAKOTA v. CHICAGO & N. W. RY. CO. 485
478.

Syllabus.

restricted meaning did they receive the legislative sanction
which was essential to make them part of the statute law
of the State; and no other authority is competent to give
them a larger application. Had they been enacted without the excepting provision and had it been embodied in
a subsequent amendatory act a different situation would
be presented-one in which that provision would have
no bearing on the meaning or scope of the others-because an existing statute cannot be recalled or restricted
by anything short of a constitutional enactment. This
was recognized in Truax v. Corrigan, ante, 312, where,
when an amendatory exception proved unconstitutional,
we held that the original statute stood wholly unaffected

by it.
From what has been said it follows that to sustain the
tax in question we should have to hold that the taxing
officers, on finding that it could not constitutionally be
assessed on the basis specially prescribed in the statute,
were at liberty to assess it on another and different basis
which the statute shows was not to be applied to corporations of the class to which these railroad companies belong. Of course we cannot so hold.
We are accordingly of opinion that the first objection
to the tax is well taken, and therefore that the tax is
invalid and its collection should be enjoined.
Decree reversed.
STATE OF NORTH DAKOTA EX REL. LEMKE,
ATTORNEY GENERAL, v. CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL.
IN EQUITY.

Argued on motion to dismiss January 5, 1922.
Decided January 23, 1922.
1. Section 211 of the Judicial Code, requiring that the United States
No. 25, Original.

be made a party to any suit to set aside or suspend an order of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Complainant.

257 U. S.

Interstate Commerce Commission, and § 208, requiring that such
suits be brought in a District Court, were not repealed by the
Act abolishing the Commerce Court, October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38
Stat. 219. P. 489.
2. The provision that the United States shall be a party (Jud. Code,
§ 211) was made not as a mere matter of procedure but in protection of the public interests. P. 490.
3. A State can sue in the District Court when the United States is
a party and has consented to be sued there and has not expressed
its consent to be sued elsewhere. P. 491.
4. A bill brought by a State in this court against railroad companies
to prevent their applying an order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission increasing rates within the State, dismissed for want
of equity, and the plaintiff remitted to its remedy in the District
Court, upon the grounds that complete justice to the companies,
and to the public policy indicated by Jud. Code, § 211, so required.
P. 490.
Bill dismissed.
ORIGINAL suit in this court against the above named
and four other railroad companies, to restrain them from
applying an order of the Interstate Commerce Commis-

sion increasing intrastate rates in North Dakota until this

court can review the decision of the Commission and pass
upon constitutional questions concerning it.
Mr. Charles W. Bunn, with whom Mr. Erasmus C.
Lindley, Mr. Dennis F. Lyons and Mr. Benjamin W.
Scandrett were on the brief, for defendants, in support of
the motion to dismiss.
Mr. Karl Knox Gartner, with whom Mr. William
Lemke, Attorney General of the State of North Dakota,
was on the brief, for complainant, in opposition to the
motion. Mr. Sveinbjorn Johnson, successor of Mr.
Lemke as Attorney General, was on a supplemental brief
filed after argument.
Neither the United States nor the Interstate Commerce
Commission is a necessary party to this suit, as no remedy
is sought against either.

NORTH DAKOTA v. CHICAGO & N. W. RY. CO. 487
485.

Argument for Complainant.

A procedure prescribed for application in the District
Courts can have no application to procedure to be observed in this court in the fMling of an original bill authorized by the Constitution. There is nothing in Illinois
Central R. R. Co. v. State Public Utilities Commission,
245 U. S. 493, or iWany other decision of this court, or in
§ 208 or in any other provision of the Judicial Code, or
any other law of Congress, that provides that the United
States is a necessary party to a suit by a State against
citizens of another State brought originally in this court,
even though such suit might involve the nullification indirectly of an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission. See Ames v. Kansas, 111 U. S. 449; United States
v. Louisiana, 123 U. S. 32; Minnesota v. Northern Securities Co., 184 U. S. 199; Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185
U. S. 373; Skinner & Eddy Corporationv. United States,
249 U. S. 557.
Section 208, Jud. Code, has been repealed by the District Court Jurisdiction Act of October 22, 1913, 38 Stat.
219, passed as a part of the general deficiency bill of that
date.
It is uncertain under the wording of Art. III, § 2, of
the Constitution whether the original jurisdiction of this
court to try suits by a State against citizens of another
State or States is exclusive. Ames v. Kansas, 111 U. S.
449, 464. Cf. United States v. Louisiana, 123 U. S. 32.
At the most, the District Court Jurisdiction Act created a
jurisdiction in the District Courts which, as respects suits
by a State against citizens of other States, is simply concurrent with the original jurisdiction of this court under
Art. III, § 2. Can that act-an act of Congress-providing that cases in the District Courts which but for its provisions would be brought against the Interstate Commerce Commission, shall thereafter be brought against
the United States, be so interpreted by this court as constituting the United States a necessary party to this suit

488

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

in the sense in which that term is defined in Minnesota v.
Northern Securities Co., 184 U. S. 236? Can an act of
Congress intended to operate solely as a matter of procedure to be observed in District Courts be interpreted
so as to operate to defeat a jurisdiction vested by the Constitution in the sovereign States of the nation to bring
their controversies with citizens of other States originally
in this court? Would not such an interpretation render
the act itself unconstitutional?
For reasons of comity between the state and federal
sovereignties, as a matter of judicial policy, any doubt as
to the matter should be resolved in favor of the right of
the State to proceed originally in this court. Ames v.
Kansas, supra.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, by leave
of court, filed a brief on behalf of the United States, as
amici curiae.
MR. JvsTIcE, HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity brought in 'this Court by the
State of North Dakota against certain named railroad
companies to prevent their applying an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission until this Court can review the decision upon which that order was made. The
order increased the intrastate rates in North Dakota
upon a finding that the present rates were an unjust discrimination against interstate commerce within the meaning of paragraph 4 of § 13 of the Act to Regulate Commerce as amended by the Transportation Act of February
28, 1920, c. 91, Title IV, § 416, 41 Stat. 456, 484. North
Dakota Rates, Fares and Charges, 61 I. C. C. 504. Increased Rates, 1920, 58 1. C. C. 220. The ground of the
bill is that the increase if applied will make the jobbing
business within the State unable to compete with the

NORTH DAKOTA v. CHICAGO & N. W. RY. CO. 489
485.

Opinion of the Court.

jobbers of Minnesota, and that the order of the Interstate
Commerce Comnission is invalid (1) because based upon
an i4crease in interstate rates that the Commission ordered without complying with the conditions said to be
imposed by §§ 15a and 19a of the Interstate Commerce
Act (a physical valuation;) (2) and because based upon a
misconstruction of the above mentioned § 13(4). It is
not necessary to state the objections more at length.
The defendants move to dismiss the bill. The first
reason offered is that a State cannot sue on account of the
private grievances of its citizens. By an amendment the
.State alleged a property interest in itself but that amendment did not cover the extent of the relief asked, and the
case is argued on the broad ground originally taken. We
shall leave this question on one side, without deciding
whether this case can be distinguished from Oklahoma v.
Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co., 220 U. S. 277, 286,
et seq. The argument that we shall consider is that the
suit is one to set aside or suspend the order of the Commission, Illinois CentralR. R. Co. v. State Public Utilities
Commission, 245 U. S. 493; that therefore by § 211 of the
Judicial Code the United States must be made a party,
and that the United States has consented to be sued only
in the District Court, where such suits are required to be
brought. Judicial Code, § 208. Act of October 22, 1913,
c. 32, 38 Stat. 219.
The State replies in the first place that the sections of
the Judicial Code relied upon relate to the establishment
of the Commerce Court and therefore are repealed in
terms by the Act of October 22, 1913, just referred to.
But that argument cannot be maintained. A provision
that all suits of a certain sort shall be brought in the
Commerce Court is only modified, not repealed, by the
abolition of the Court and the transfer of its jurisdiction
to the District Courts. Such a statute does not rblate
merely to the establishment of the Commerce Court. The

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

sections cited always have been assumed, we believe, to
remain in force and they were made a basis of decision
in Illinois CentralR. R. Co. v. State Public Utilities Commission, 245 U. S. 493, 504.
The main contention of the State is that if in th0
opinion of the Court it has a substantial right that is infringed by what the defendants are doing Congress neither
can take that right away nor prevent the State from proceeding in this Court for such remedy as law or equity
may afford. But if these premises were granted, it would
not follow that the bill should be maintained. It is a
proceeding in equity in which the requirements of complete justice and of public policy must be taken into account. When they are considered it seems to us pretty
clear that the State should be remitted to the remedy
offered by the statutes-a suit in the District Courtin which
the United States is made a party. Complete justice requires that the railroads should not be subjected to the risk
of two irreconcilable commands-that of the Interstate
Commerce Commission enforced by a decree on the one
side and that of this Court on the other. The decision in
this case although an authority would not be res judicata,
and the Commission would not be concluded from rearguing the whole matter. As to public policy, Congress
has indicated the policy of the )United States. For although it is argued that the requirement that the United
States should be made a party is a mere matter of procedure for the purpose of giving the Department of Justice control, we cannot limit the significance of the Judicial Code, § 211, by such'a speculation. The language of
the section shows that public interests were before the
mind of Congress, and that in its opinion an order made
in the public interest should not be hindered from going
into effect until the representative of the public had been
heard, It appears to us that this view is so reasonable
that it should be accepted by this Court even if not
bound.

CORNELI v. MOORE.
485.

Syllabus.

There is no doubt that a State can sue in the District
Court when the United States is a party and has consented to be sued there and has not expressed its consent
to be sued elsewhere. United States v. Louisiana, 123
U. S. 32. Ames v. Kansas, 111 U. S. 449. For the reasons
that we have indicated it is equitable that a decree should
not be entered except in such form as to bind the Interstate Commerce Commission and the United States and
therefore this bill must be dismissed. The right of the
State is sufficiently protected by its right to appeal from
the decision of the District Court. Cohens v. Virginia, 6
Wheat. 264, 395, et seq.
Bill dismissed.
CORNELI v. MOORE, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
GHIO v. MOORE, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

BRYAN v. MILES, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE FOR THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT.COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.

EASTES v. CRUTCHLEY, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE FOR THE SIXTH DISTRICT
OF MISSOURI, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

Nos. 174, 175, 428, 548. Argued December 15, 1921.-Decided
January 30, 1922.
1. Under the National Prohibition Act, the owner of whisky stored
in a bonded warehouse can not secure its release upon payment of

