NORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
71.

Counsel for Appellant.

abandonment of his title to the office, and of his right to
recover the emoluments thereof.
Affirmed.
NORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 11.

Argued October 5, 1921.-Decided November 7, 1921.

N, having been wrongfully removed from the office of customs inspector, w\ithout being furnished a copy of the charges against him
or opportunity to answer, as required by the Act of August 24,
1912, c. 389, § 6, 37 Stat. 555, waited eleven months before asserting his rights. He was reinstated for the purpose of affording him
a due hearing, suspended from duty and pay meanwhile, and was
exonerated, but the office was then abolished and his services dispensed with, for the reason that there was no existing vacancy in
the service to which he could be assigned.
Held: (1) That he was not entitled to official pay from the time of
his removal to the time of his reinstatement. P. 80. Nicholas v.
United States, ante, 71.
(2) The power to determine the number of customs inspectors and
to appoint and remove them was lodged with the Secretary of the
Treasury. P. 81.
(3) The order abolishing the place to which N was reinstated, made
by an assistant secretary and being part of the archives of the
Department, must be presumed to have been within the scope of
the authority conferred upon the assistant by the Secretary7 there
being no evidence to the contrary. Rev. Stats., §§ 161, 245.
P. 81.
(4) N could not recover pay since the time of his reinstatement.
P. 82.
55 Ct. Clms. 208, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims in a
suit to recover the emoluments of an office accruing after
appellant's removal from it. See also ante, 71, post, 82.

Mr. William E. Russell, with whom Mr. L. T. Michener
and Mr. P. G. Michener were on the briefs, for appellant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Riter, with whom Mr.
Assistant Attorney General Davis and Mr. William D.
Harriswere on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the Court of Claims which was
argued and submitted at the same time with No. 10, just
decided, ante, 71. Judgment was rendered against Norris.
55 Ct. Clms. 208. The case was brought to this court on
appeal, and was remanded to the Court of, Claims for
further findings.
It appears that Norris was . customs employee at the
port of Baltimore. On July 2, 1907, he was made a Customs Inspector at the compensation of $4.00 per day. On
February 20, 1913, he was advised by the Collector of
Customs that his services as inspector would be dispensed
with, and his position vacated at the close of business on
that day. On December 22, 1913, he addressed a communication to the Secretary of the Treasury in which he
stated that he had been dismissed from the seryice on the
previous February 20th; that no reason was assigned for
the dismissal, nor charges furnished him, nor opportunity
given him to be heard as provided by § 6 of the Act of
August 24, 1912, c. 389, 37 Stat. 555. He stated that,
therefore, his dismissal seemed contrary to law, and asked
for reinstatement, and an examination of his case on the
merits as prescribed in that act. The Assistant Secretary
of the Treasury, on January 12, 1914, replied in substance
that, as it appeared that he had been removed without
being furnished a copy of the charges, the Department
was willing to request the Civil Service Commission to
issue a certificate for his reinstatement, and give him a
written copy of the charges which led to his separation
frdm the service. In reply to this letter the claimant
wrote the Secretary of the Treasury renewing his request
for reinstatement. On February 10, 1914, Norris' reixi-

NORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
77.

Opinion of the Court.

statement was requested in order that he might be furnished with a copy of the charges and allowed to answer
them. On the same day the Assistant Secretary wrote the
Collector at Baltimore enclosing a letter reinstating the
plaintiff, and adding that upon Norris subscribing to the
oath of office he would be suspended pending an investigation of the charges. On February 12, 1914, the Treasury Department requested the Civil Service Commission
to issue the necessary certificate for the reinstatement of
Norris as Inspector of Customs in order that he might
be given the opportunity to answer the charges against
him. On February 20, 1914, by direction of the Secretary of the Treasury, Norris was reinstated, and appointed
an Inspector of Customs in order that he might be given
an opportunity to answer the charges which resulted in
his removal. Plaintiff executed the oath of office on
March 5, 1914. He was suspended from duty and pay,
charges were preferred against him. On March 9, 1914,
Norris answered the charges. On April 25, 1914, the
Treasury Department, by the Assistant Secretary of the
Treasury, advised that the Department was of the opinion that the charges and the evidence against the plaintiff
were not sufficient to have warranted his dismissal, stating, however, that, inasmuch as there was no vacancy at
that time in the force of customs inspectors, plaintiff's
services could not be utilized; that the position of inspector was created in order that he might take the oath
of office so that the charges against 'him could be tried;
that his services would therefore necessarily be dispensed
with; the order would be effective upon receipt of the
letter by the Collector of Customs at the port of Baltimore, and the position abolished; that plaintiff was
eligible for reinstatement within one year, provided his
services could be utilized and he should be properly recommended for an existing vacancy. On May 27, 1914, a
letter was written by the President of the National Asso-

80

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

ciation of Customs Inspectors asking for the reinstatement of Norris. On June 6, 1914, the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury responded that there was no position of inspector vacant at Baltimore; that Norris was
entitled to reinstatement, and, should a vacancy occur, he
would be given consideration. On February 18, 1915, the
plaintiff wrote a letter to the Secretary of the Treasury
asking for reinstatement to the position of inspector of
customs.
In the additional findings it appears that after the
plaintiff was dismissed he remained a few months in Baltimore, and then went to a farm in Virginia; that he occasionally visited in Baltimore, and that no facts appear
to show that he was not ready, willing, and able to perform the duties of the office up to and including May 20,
1916, and at the time of the taking of his deposition in
August, 1919.
The question is, upon these findings, and the additional
findings: Is the claimant entitled to recover the compensation which is sought by his petition in this case?
It appears that during the period of eleven months after
his suspension without compliance with the statute,
plaintiff took no steps to vindicate his right to the office,
nor to recover the compensation incident to the same.
We need not repeat the discussion in the Nicholas Case,
No. 10, just decided, of the principles which we deem
controlling in cases of this character. The question here
is: Did Norris use reasonable diligence, in view of the
obligation placed upon him, notwithstanding his wrongful
removal, to assert his right to the compensation attached
to the office? It is true that it has been found that he
was ready, willing, and able to discharge its duties, but no
fact is found explaining his failure to assert his right to the
office, or its emoluments, for the period of eleven months
and a little over. He did not, as did Wickersham (201

NORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
77.

Opinion of the Court.

U. S.390), promptly demand a restoration to the office,
nor make any claim to its emoluments because the power
of removal had been exercised without giving him the
opportunity for a hearing which the statute affords. Each
case must be decided upon its own facts, and we are of
opinion that the findings here do not disclose that exercise of reasonable diligence on Norris' part which the law
imposes upon him as a duty if he would recover compensation for services in an office which the Government
might fill with another, or otherwise adjust its service so
as to dispense with the service of the plaintiff. Public
policy requires reasonable diligence upon the plaintiff's
part, which we think the findings in this record do not
disclose.
It is contended that claimant is entitled to recover after
his reinstatement, although the office, which the findings
show was created for the purpose of affording Norris a
hearing, was immediately abolished. If the office was
legally abolished, it follows, of course, that the courts
cannot afford him relief. The power of the Secretary of
the Treasury to determine the number of inspectors to
be employed cannot be reasonably questioned. Nor can
the power of removal be doubted. It is included in the
power to appoint, the statute not otherwise providing.
Burnap v. United States, 252 U. S.512, 515. The objection urged upon our attention is that the order was made
by an Assistant Secretary. We have no doubt of the
authority of the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury to
take this action. Section 245 of the Revised Statutes provides: ,"
The Assistant Secretaries of the Treasury shall
examine letters, contracts, and warrants prepared for the
signature of the Secretary of the Treasury, and perform
such other duties in the office of the Secretary of the
Treasury as may be prescribed by the Secretary or by
law." Section 161 of the Revised Statutes gives to the

82

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

heads of the Departments the right to prescribe regulations, not inconsistent with law, for the government of
their respective departments, the conduct of its officers
and clerks, the distribution and performance of its business, and the custody, use, and preservation of the records,
papers, and property appertaining to it. Moreover, the
action of the Assistant Secretary in this case was reduced
to writing and became a part of the archives of the Department. It does not appear to have been modified, nor in
any way changed by the Secretary. There is nothing in
the record to show that the action of the Assistant Secretary did not have the full sanction and approval of the
Secretary. Under such circumstances the act of the
Assistant Secretary must be presumed to be within
the scope of the authority which the Secretary conferred
upon his Assistant. McCollum v. United States, 17 Ct.
Clms. 92.
We are of opinion that after the order restoring Norris
for the purpose of a hearing by creating a place for him
and abolishing the office after the hearing there can be no
recovery. It follows that the judgment of the Court of
Claims must be
Affirmed.

EBERLEIN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 12. Argued October 5, 1921.-Decided November 7, 1921.
E, hafing been removed by the Secretary of the Treasury from a
place in the customs service after due hearing upon charges, was
later reinstated by the same authority, pursuant to an order of
the President based on further investigation and findings that the
charges were not just.
Held: (1) That the removal was an act of discretion not subject to
revision by the court. P. 84.

