ALABAMA &c. RY. CO. v. JOURNEY
99.

Syllabus.

property permanently out of the jurisdiction. It does not
matter, I take it, whether the interest is legal or egtuitable,
or what the machinery by which it is reached, but the
question is whether the object of the right is so local in
its foundation and prime meaning that it should stand
like an interest in land. If left to myself I should have
thought that the foundation and substance of the plaintiff's right was the right of himself and his associates personally to enter the New York Stock Exchange building
and to do business there. I should have thought that
all the rest was incidental to that and that that on its face
was localized in New York. If so, it does not matter
whether it is real or personal property or that it adds to
the owner's credit and facilities in Ohio. The same would.
be true of a great estate in New York land.

As my brothers VAN DEVANTER and McREYxoLDS share
the same doubts it has seemed to us proper that they
should be expressed.
ALABAMA & VICKSBURG RAILWAY COMPANY
ET AL. v. JOURNEY.
ERROR AND

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TZZ
STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 55. Argued October 21, 1921.-Decided November 7, 1921.
1. The order of the Director General of Railroads, prescribing that
all suits against carriers while under federal control must be
brought in the county or district where the plaintiff resided at the
time of the accrual of the cause of action or in the county or district where the cause of action arose, was a reasonable exercise of
the power conferred by Congress on the President, through the
Federal Control Act. P. 114. Missouri Pacific R. R. Co. v. Ault,

256 U. S. 554.
2. So held, where the action was against the railroad company, in a
state court, on a cause which arose before federal control.
122 Miss. 742, reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S

Cm ORAPm to a judgment of the Supreme Court-of Mississippi affirming a judgment for damages against the
present petitioners.
Mr. J.Blanc Monroe, with whom Mr. Monte M. Lemann and Mr. R. H. Thompson were on the briefs, for
plaintiffs in error and petitioners.
Mr. Robert B. Mayes, for defendant in error and respondent, submitted. Mr. J. A. Teat, Mr. Chalmers
Potter and Mr. Clayton D. Potterwere also on the brief.
MR. JusTIcE BRANDBis delivered the opinion of the
court.
On April 30, 1918, Smith Journey sued the Alabama &
Vicksburg Railway Company in the Circuit Court for the
Second District of Hinds County, Mississippi, for an injury suffered on October 24, 1917. At the time of the
accident the railroad was being operated by the company.
When suit was brought the railroad was under federal
control. The company pleaded in abatement that the
plaintiff was not a resident of Hinds County when the
alleged injury occurred and that the alleged cause of
action did not arise in the district of the county in which
suit was brought. And it set up Order No. 18 of the
Director General of Railroads, as amended April 18, 1918,
which prohibited the institution of suits against railroads
under federal control in the court for any district other
than that in which the plaintiff had resided or in which
the alleged cause of action arose. 1 A demurrer to the
April 9,1918.
IGeneral Order No. 18.
Whereas the Act of Congress approved March 21, 1918, entitled,
"An Act to Provide for the Operation of Transportation Systems
While under Federal Control," provides (section 10) "That carriers
while under Federal control shall be subject to all laws and liabilities
as common carriers, whether arising under State or Federal laws or at
common law, except in so far as may be inconsistent with the provi-

ALABAMA &c. RY. CO. v. JOURNEY.
111.

113

Opinion of the Court.

plea was sustained; the plaintiff then recovered a verdict;
and the judgment entered thereon was affirmed by the
highest court of the State. 122 Miss. 742. The case was
brought here by writ of error. A petition for a writ of
certiorari was also filed and consideration of the latter was
postponed until the hearing on the writ of error. It is
now granted; and the writ of error is dismissed.
The Supreme Court of Mississippi overruled the plea in
abatement on the ground that Order No. 18 exceeded the
powers conferred by Congress on the President and by
him on the Director General. Whether the state court
erred in so holding is the only question before us. That it
sions of this Act or with any order of the President. . . . But
no process, mesne or final, shall be levied against any property under
such Federal control "; and,

Whereas it appears that suits against the carriers for personal injuries, freight and damage claims, are being brought in States and
jurisdictions far remote from the place where plaintiffs reside or
where the cause of action arose, the effect thereof being that men
operating the trains engaged in hauling war materials, troops, munitions or supplies, are required to leave their trains and attend court
as witnesses, and travel sometimes for hundreds of miles from their
work, necessitating absence from their trains for days and sometimes
for a week or more; which practice is highly prejudicial to the just
interests of the government and seriously interferes with the physical
operation of the railroads; and the practice of suing in remote jurisdictions is not necessary for the protection of the rights or the just
interests of plaintiffs.
It is therefore ordered, that all suits against carriers while under
Federal control must be brought in the county or district where the
plaintiff resides, or in the county or district where the cause of action
arose.
GeneralOrder No. 18A.
April 18,1918.
General Order No. 18, issued April 9, 1918, is hereby amended to
read as follows:
"It is therefore ordered that all suits against carriers while under
Federal control must be brought in the county or district where the
plaintiff resided at the time of the accrual of the cause of action or in
the county or district where the cause of action arose."

114

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

did err is clear from what we said in MissouriPacific R. R.
Co. v. Ault, 256 U. S. 554, decided since entry of the judgment under review. Section 10 of the Federal Control
Act of March 21, 1918, c. 25, 40 Stat. 451, 456, permitted
enforcement of liabilities against carriers while under
federal control except "in so far as may be inconsistent
. . . with any order of the President." It was within the
powers of the Director General to prescribe the venue of
suits; and the facts set forth in the order show both the
occasion for it and that the venue prescribed was reasonable.
Writ of error dismissed.
Writ of certiorarigranted.
Judgment reversed.
LOUISIANA & PINE BLUFF RAILWAY COMPANY
v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 291. Argued October 14, 1921.-Decided November 7, 1921.
1. In a suit to set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission, a claim that the order was unsupported by evidence can
not be considered if only part of the evidence taken before the
Commission is introduced in the suit. P. 116.
2. One of numerous lumber tap lines whose allowances, under joint
rates and through routes with trunk lines, were fixed lEy the Commission with reference to length of tap-line haul, added to its haul
a preliminary out-of-line movement to a scales, where it weighed
the shipments. The Commission, finding no necessity for weighing by the tap line rather than by the trunk line, and that an
increase of allowance based on such out-of-line haul would result
in discrimination unjust to other tap lines and open the way for
relocation of scales by other tap lines and increases of allowances
amounting to rebates, refused to allow the out-of-line haul to be
considered. Held, that its order was not arbitrary or unreasonable. P. 117.
274 Fed. 372, affirmed.

