OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

cluded, as a condition to the validity of the certificate
as an obligation of the United States, the affixing of a
stamp thereto, and that not more than twenty stamps of
the series of 1918 might be affixed, and that no one person could at any one time hold certificates of an aggregate amount exceeding $1,000.
These conditions were defeated and intended to be
defeated by the action of Sacks in tearing from the face
of the certificate two stamps. Such action constituted an
alteration of the certificate and the stamps with intent to
use the same without the remainder of the certificate
signed by the purchaser and thus to defraud the United
States by defeating the purposes of the law of September
24, 1917, and the circulars of the Secretary of the Treasury empowered to be issued under that law, and the terms
and conditions endorsed on the certificate, and the court's
decision to the contrary was a misconstruction of the Act
of September 24.
There therefore was a violation of § 151 as charged in
the third count of the indictment, Sacks having in his
possession, with intent to defraud the United States, an
altered obligation of the United States.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

UNITED STATES v. JANOWITZ ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 49. Argued October 20, 1921.-Deeided November 7, 1921.
A conspiracy to. purchase war savings certificates from their Qwners,
remove the stamps therefrom, attach them to other, blank war
savings certificates to be illegally procured, write upon the latter
the names of persons other than the conspirators, and present
them, so stamped and signed, at a post office of the United States

UNITED STATES v. JANOWITZ.
42.

Opinion of the Court.

for payment, is a conspiracy to defraud the United States (Crim.
Code, § 37) and to commit the offense of altering, with intent to
defraud, obligations of the United States (Crim. Code, §§ 37, 148.)
P. 45. United States v. Sacks, ante, 37.
Reversed.
WRxT of error under the Criminal Appeals Act to review a judgment sustaining a demurrer to an indictment.

Mr. William C. Herron, with whom Mr. Assistant Attorney General Stewart was on the brief, for the United
States.
Mr. Jonah J. Goldstein, for defendants in error, submitted. Mr. David Goldstein and Mr. Aiken A. Pope
were also on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE

McKENNvA delivered the opinion of the

court.
This case was submitted with No. 48, United States v.
Sacks, ante, 37. It was decided in the District Court at
the same time as the Sacks Case and upon the same opinion, the legal propositions being the same in both cases.
They were presented upon demurrers to the indictments.
The indictment in the present case is in two counts, the
first charging a violation of § 37 of the Criminal Code and
the second charging a conspiracy under § 37 to violate
§ 148. The basis of both is a conspiracy to defraud the
United States by the violation of the Act of Congress of
September 24, 1917, c. 56, 40 Stat. 291, passed on- in
United States v. Sacks. The ways and means of the execution of the conspiracy are described with much detail
by a recitation of the Acts of Congress of September 24,
1917, and September 24, 1918, c. 176, 40 Stat. 966, and
the provisions of the circulars issued by the Secretary of
the Treasury providing for the execution of the purpose
of those acts. And specifically, it is averred that the de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

fendants in the case, defendants in error here, purchased
from persons not authorized by the Secretary of the
Treasury to sell the same, a quantity of war savings certificates of the series of 1918 and 1919, with savings certificate stamps affixed thereto, and that the defendants
well knew that the certificates and the stamps were not
transferable, were worthless in their hands, and could not
be redeemed by them at or prior to maturity dates thereof,
and were not payable to anyone save one who had purchased them from an authorized agent of the United
States, and to a person whose name was written on them
at the time of issue and purchase, but conspired to obtain
them for themselves from the United States prior to the
maturity date of the certificates and stamps knowing that
they were not entitled thereto and that the United States
was not obligated to pay them, and thereby defraud the
United States.
The defendants as part of their conspiracy, is the
further averment, conspired to obtain in a manner contrary to the provisions of the act of Congress to the effect
that the amount of certificates sold to any one person at
any one time should not exceed $100, a number of blank
certificates of a maturity value in excess of $100, to which
stamps had not been affixed and on which the name of
the owner had not been written, to detach from the certificates so purchased, the stamps, and to affix the stamps
to blank certificates and to write upon them the name of
some person, other than any one of the defendants, and
to present them at a post office of the United States for
payment.
To effect the object of the conspiracy it is averred that
the defendant Janowitz, at the Southern District of New
York, maintained during the months of August and September, 1919, an office for the purpose of purchasing certificates and stamps, and that in the manner described,
the defendants at the times and places set forth conspired

UNITED STATES v. JANOWITZ.
42.

Opinion of the Court.

to defraud the United States, and one of them did an
"act to effect the object of said conspiracy, against the
peace of the United States and their dignity and contrary
to the form of the statute of the United States in such
case made and provided." (§ 37, Crim. Code.)
The second count, with about the same detail of circumstances as contained in the first count, charges that
the defendants at a particular time conspired to commit
an offense against the United States in that they conspired to alter, with intent to defraud, obligations of the
United States, that is, the war savings certificates of the
United States issued under the Act of September 24,
1917, with war savings certificate stamps affixed thereto.
It is difficult to succinctly represent the contentions of
defendants. Their basic proposition seems to be that the
certificates and war stamps were lawfully purchased from
the Secretary of the Treasury and became the property of
the purchaser and that, therefore, in the absence of an
express statutory enactment, the right of the purchaser to
alienate or sell them and of the defendants in error to
acquire them was absolute and could not be made unlawful by a mere executive regulation. Or, to put it another
way, as counsel puts it, "that the exchange, sale, or barter
of war savings stamps is a perfectly lawful business
under the strictest letter of the enabling statute." The
deduction, therefore, is that the Secretary of the Treasury
had not power conferred upon him to issue the circulars
and prescribe the conditions endorsed upon the certificates, and their violation was no crime but was the exercise of a property right.
This is the ultimate deduction and emphasis of defendants in error's argument. It is not contended that
Congress could not have prescribed such limitation, but
it is contended Congress did not do so nor authorize the
Secretary of the Treasury to do so and that, therefore, his
regulations are void. They write, it is asserted, "an en-

46

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

tirely new law-a law which would hinder and obstruct
persons from the exercise of the yaluable property right
which such persons have exercised in the full belief of its
propriety for some years past."
These contentions prevailed with Judge Hough in the
District Court. He said: "When Congress authorized the
issuance of 'stamps to evidence payments for or on account of such certificates,' and did not deny to the stamp
holders the right of transfer, such right existed. The
Treasury has sought to take it away by making the certificates non-transferable. Assuming that power exists to
prohibit transfer of the certificates, I am wholly unable to
perceive that there is any congressional authority for the
Secretary's prohibiting the transferability of the stamps
affixed to the certificates.
"Nowhere is it said that any particular stamp shall
evidence a payment on any particular certificate.
"This I think is the gist of the matter: Is a regulation
which as interpreted, in terms takes away a property right
in a manner not specifically authorized by statute, a valid
rule? I cannot persuade myself that such is the case."
And after citing United States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506,
and other cases, and attempting to confine them to mere
"procedural regulation," he said: "A stamp is a thing of
value, bought and paid for, and to deprive it of the
quality of assignability is a diminution of lawfully existing property rights for which in my judgment congressional action alone will suffice."
The act of Congress has broader meaning than that assigned to it by the District Court, as we expressed in the
Sacks Case, and there decided that the Secretary had the
power which he exercised.
The reasoning of the opinion in that case applies in
this, and determines the reversal of the judgment of the
District Court. In other words, determines that the facts
stated in the counts are sufficient to constitute crimes

MARINE RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
42.

Syllabus.

under §§ 37 and 148 of the Criminal Code and the Act
of Congress of September 24, 1917, properly construed.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

MARINE RAILWAY & COAL COMPANY, INC. v.
UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 45. Argued October 18, 1921.-Decided November 7, 1921.
1. The jurisdiction of this court to review judgments of the Court of
Appeals of the District of Columbia "in cases in which the jurisdiction of the trial court is in issue" (Jud. Code, § 250, cl. 1),
attaches to a case originating in the Supreme Court of the District in which the issue concerned the territorial limits of that
court's jurisdiction. P. 62.
2. The Supreme Court of the District of Columbia being a court of
general jurisdiction, there is no occasion to limit the natural scope
of Jud. Code, § 250, cl. 1, after the manner in which the similarly
worded § 238, applicable to the District Courts of the United
States, has been confined to cases in which their jurisdiction as
federal courts is involved. P. 62.
3. A certificate of the question of jurisdiction is not necessary, under
Jud. Code, § 250, supra, where the issue was clearly made by plea
and a certificate could add nothing to the record. P. 62.
4. Quwre: Whether the rule construing the sixth clause of Jud. Code,
§ 250, as conferring jurisdiction only when the law drawn in question is of general application throughout the United States, as distinguished from one local to the District, would apply in a case
involving a statute fixing the boundary of the District. P. 62. Cf.
American Security & Trust Co. v. District of Columbia, 224 U. S.
491.
5. The original title of Maryland, to which the United States suc.
ceeded in the District of Columbia, extended at least to the low
water mark on the Virginia side of the Potomac River. P. Q3.

