HILDRETH v. MASTORAS.
Syllabus.

HILDRETH v. MASTORAS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 51.

Argued October 21, 1921.-Decided November 7, 1921.

1. The presumption of priority and novelty which arises from the
granting of a patent has greatly increased weight when the claim
of the inventor was subjected to close and careful scrutiny in the
Patent Office under the stimulus of a heated contest. P. 32.
2. It is not necessary, in order to sustain a generic patent, to show
that the device is a commercial success. The machine patented
may be imperfect in operation, but if it embodies the generic
principle, and works-that is, if it actually and mechanically performs, though only in a crude way, the important function by
which it makes the substantial change claimed for it in the art, it
is enough. P. 34.
3. A patentee who took the important but long-delayed and therefore not obvious step from the pulling of candy by hand to the
performance of the same function by machine, the ultimate effect
of which, with the mechanical and patentable improvements of his
device, was greatly to reduce its cost, and to enlarge the field of
the art, was a pioneer. P. 34.
4. The Dickinson patent, No. 831,501, claim 1, for a candy-pulling
machine comprising a plurality of oppositely-disposed candy hooks
or supports, a candy-puller (consisting of a third pin or support),
and means for producing a specified relative in-and-out motion of
these parts for the purpose of alternately pulling and overlapping
the candy, held: (a) Not anticipated by the earlier Firchan patent,
comprising two hooks or pins attached to oppositely rotating discs
and passing each other in concentric circles. P. 32. (b) Infringed
by the later, Langer patent which, instead of having one stationary
pin and two others which move relatively to it and to each other,
as in the Dickinson construction, has two stationary pins and a
third which moves relatively to both of them, the path of the
candy under the operation of the pins being in both cases along a
course corresponding in form to a figure 8. P. 35.
5. The Dickinson patent, supra, provided a trough to support the
candy against gravity, but specified that any other support suitable
to support it while being operated might be used. Held, that the
trough was not an essential element and that an arrangement of
the pins in a horizontal instead of a vertical position, so that the

28

o0TOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

candy was supported by them, was at most an improved equivalent. P. 36.
6. A generic patent is entitled to broad equivalents. P. 36.
263 Fed. 571, reversed.
CERTIORARI to review a judgment of the Circuit Court

of Appeals in a suit brought by the present petitioner to
enjoin an infringement of his patent. The District Court
granted the injunction, 253 Fed. 68; but it was reversed
by the court below, 263 Fed. 571.
Mr. George P. Dike, with whom Mr. Frederic D. McKenney was on the briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. Joseph L. Atkins, for respondent, submitted.
W. A. Robbins was also on the briefs.

Mr.

MR. CHmiE JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit bringing here for review a decree of
that court, reversing one of the District Court of Oregon.
granting an injunction against infringement of a patent
for a candy pulling machine. The patent, No. 831,501,
was issued to Hildreth as assignee by mesne assignments
of Dickinson. Mastoras, the defendant in the District
Court, made and used a candy pulling machine, under a
later patent of Langer. The Circuit Court of Appeals held
the claim of the Dickinson patent sued on to be so limited
as not to cover the Langer device. 253 Fed. 68; 263
Fed. 571.
The chief question in this case is infringement, and that
turns on the question whether Dickinson's invention is
held to be a primary or generic invention, or a narrow one
limited solely to the device shown.
Not all candy is pulled, but much o4' .t is. The process
is first the mixture of the ingredients, then the boiling,

HILDRETH v. MASTORAS.
27.

Opinion of the Court.

then the cooling on a slab, and then the pulling. After
boiling and cooling, it is a compact mass of dark color.
The pulling aefates it and makes it less in weight but
larger in bulk, lighter in color and more capable of holding
flavor. Until the beginning of this century, candy was
pulled only by hand. It required much strength. Candy
pullers were hard to get. The work was strenuous and
produced perspiration and uncleanliness. It was done
with the bare hands, and it was impossible to avoid danger
from eczema and abrasions of the skin of the hands. It
was neither appetizing nor sanitary. A good candy puller
might pull three hundred pounds of candy a day. The
capacity of the large machines now in use is two and onehalf tons each, and one man can attend to two machines.
Thus since 1900, the art has advanced from a production
of 300 pounds a day to 10,000 pounds, with the same
labor.
In April, 1900, Dickinson published an article in the
trade journal, "The Confectioner," describing a machine
for pulling candy and offering it for sale. He advertised
it quite largely. Hildreth ordered the Dickinson machine,
tested it and rejected it as unsatisfactory. One of Hildreth's men, Thibodeau, having seen and worked on the
Dickinson machine, made a machine which worked better.
Hildreth filed an application for a patent for one device
for pulling candy Septembet 21, 1900. Thibodeau filed
an application for another November 26, 1900, and an
interference was declared between them. Thibodeau
thereafter bought Dickinson's invention and caused him
to file an application for a patent November 5, 1901. Six
applications were pending in the Patent Office at the same
time, those of Dickinson, Hildreth, Jenner, Thibodeau,
Robinson and Henry, and the Patent Office framed the
issue between them in terms exactly those afterwards
granted to Dickinson as the claim relied on in this case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

The controversy in the Patent Office lasted five years,
was strenuously contested, and was carried to the Court
of Appeals of the District of Columbia. The controversy
involved, among other issues, that of the operativeness of
Dickinson's device, as does the present case in one of its
phases. He had given a public test of his machine at
Grand Rapids where he lived, in 1900, and had invited a
numbef of witnesses. They were called before the Examiner to testify whether the machine had worked successfully, and the Examiner found from the great weight
of evidence that it had. Hildreth was a witness in the
District Court below on this issue. He was in the embarrassing situation of having fought, in the Patent Office,
Dickinson's claim, which he was now supporting as his
property. He testified that while Dickinson's machine
was not a success commercially, he had found that by
shortening it and speeding it up, in accord with a suggestion of Dickinson, he could and did make satisfactory
candy. The record shows that the judge in the District
Court below had a working model before him which he
refers toas demonstrating that the device is operative.
Hildreth has been a candy manufacturer of Boston for
many years, and since 1906 has made candy machines.
In addition to his own patent, he has acquired by purchase all the other patents in interference with Dickinson.
He acquired the Dickinson patent from Thibodeau before
its issue, for $75,000.
By these new devices the art of candy making has been
revolutionized. Some kinds of candy which if pulled at
all had to be pulled when cold, could not be pulled by
hand, because it required more than man strength; but
they are now pulled by power machines. The production
of candy has greatly increased, and 90 per cent. of all the
pulled candy made is pulled by machine. Hildreth makes
a half dozen different classes of machines which embody
the devices of his own patent and others which he has

HILDRETH v. MASTORAS.
27.

Opinion of the Court.

purchased, but none of the model of Dickinson's. Mastoras, the respondent here, was for some time a licensee of
Hildreth until he made and used his present machine.
In candy pulling by hand, the puller works the boiled
candy, cooled but still warm and sticky, into a sausagelike piece two or three feet long, and weighing 20 or 25
pounds, called a batch. He throws the middle of this over
a hook fixed in the wall about the level of his chin. He
pulls down the two ends, stretching the batch two or
three times its length. Then he holds the ends together
with one hand and with the other seizes the two strands
about their middle and carries them over the hook, thus
making a new bight of the folded or lapped strands over
the hook, and shortening the lengths hanging from the
hook, the ends of which are now brought together and
pulled down again. This operation repeated often, brings
the candy into desired condition.
In the Dickinson machine, the candy is placed in the
bottom of a trough, in the center of which is an upright
pin, referred to in the patent as the "candy-puller."
There are two other pins suspended over the trough from
the ends of an arm or plate which in turn is fixed to a
support and made to rotate. By suitable contrivance, the
support which carries the pins is made to move back and
forth from end to end of the trough. At each end of the
trough, the pins are made by the rotary motion of the
plate to which they are suspended, to reverse their positions from one side of the trough to the other before beginning their movement in the opposite direction. In
this way there is produced an in-and-out movement of the
suspended pins relative to the stationary pin every time
they reach and depart from the ends of the trough. This
movement causes the "batch" of the candy in the trough,
attached itself to the movable pins, to be pulled by lapping on itself as the suspended pins pass and repass the
fixed pin and as their positions are reversed. The change

32

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

of the relative position of the three pins is such that in
a complete cycle of operation of the machine one of the
pins passes through the space between the other two, and
then another of the pins passes through a space between
the other two, and then the third between the other two,
each pin at one phase of the operation passing between
two others, and at another phase of the operation being
one of the pair between which the third one is passing.
Just as the hand pulling of the candy produced a bundle
of parallel fibers between which were formed air cells
rendering the mass porous, so the mechanism of Dickinson's machine secures the same result. It elongates the
candy, folds it upon itself, again elongates the folded
mass, again folds it upon itself and repeats the operation
in order. So far as this record discloses, no candy pulling
has been successful which does not in some form by an
arrangement of three or more pins show this in-and-out
movement to pull and lap the candy, and no one had
shown it prior to Dickinson.
Dickinson's claim here sued on is as follows:
"A candy-pulling machine comprising a plurality of oppositely-disposed candy hooks or supports, a candy-puller,
and means for producing a specified relative in-and-out
motion of these parts for the purpose set forth."
This, as already said, is the claim which was framed in
the Patent Office as the issue of the interference proceeding, and of which Dickinson was given priority over all.
The presumption of priority and novelty which arises
from the granting of a patent must have greatly increased
weight when the claim of the inventor is subjected to such
close and careful scrutiny under the stimulus of a heated
contest.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held the claim of Dickinson to be limited by a prior patent to Firchau for a candy
working machine applied for in March, 1893, and issued

HILDRETH v. MASTORAS.
27.

Opinion of the Court.

December 19, 1893. The machine shown in the Firchau
patent comprises two discs which are rotated in opposite
directions. On each disc is a finger which projects into a
drum, into which the candy is put. The pins pass each
other twice during each revolution of the disc and move
in concentric circles, but do not have the relative in-andout motion or figure 8 movement of the Dickinson machine. With only two hooks there could be no lapping of
the candy, because there was no third pin to re-engage
the candy while it was held between the other two pins.
The movement of the two pins in concentric circles might
stretch it somewhat and stir it, but it would not pull it
in the sense of the art. The Firchau device never, so far
as appears in the record, made candy experimentally or
otherwise. Indeed, no candy was commercially pulled
by machine before or after the issuing of the Firchau
patent in 1893 until the introduction of the Dickinson
principle, nine or ten years later.
Counsel for the respondent in seeking to narrow the
construction of the broad claim of Dickinson rely on the
circumstance that one of Dickinson's claims in the Patent
Office was canceled on a reference to Firchau. The canceled claim of Dickinson was:
"In a candy-pulling machine in combination a series of
pins or pulling members, and automatically acting means
for causing said members to feed the candy to each other
and pull the same."
The Examiner evidently considered that the word
"series" might be held to cover a device with only two
pins, as shown in the Firchau patent; though, having in
mind the essential elements of the Dickinson patent, it
could hardly have borne such a construction. However.
that may be, as neither Firchau nor anyone else has
shown, with two pins only, the in-and-out movement in
pulling candy, which is the fundamental element of the

34

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

Dickinson invention, the cancelation does not seem to us
important or to require a narrowing of Dickinson's claim
for the described and indispensable codperation of three
or more pins to produce that movement.
The Court of Appeals bases something of its conclusion
in this case on the alleged inoperativeness of the Dickinson machine. As to this, we find no reason in the record
for disturbing the finding of the District Judge, with the
working model and the witnesses before him, supported as
he is by the finding of the Patent Office and the District
Court of Appeals on extended evidence on this very point
before them. It is not necessary, in order to sustain a
generic patent, to show that the device is a commercial
success. The machine patented may be imperfect in its
operation; but if it embodies the generic principle, and
works, that is, if it actually and mechanically performs,
though only in a crude way, the important function by
which it makes the substantial change claimed for it in
the art, it is enough. Telephone Cases, 126 U. S. 1, 535;
Mergenthaler Linotype Co. v. Press Publishing Co., 57
Fed. 502, 505.
The Patent Office treated the Dickinson invention as a
primary or generic one. So did the Court of Appeals of
the District of Columbia (25 App. D. C. 316), Judge Rose
of the District Court of Maryland (Hitdreth v. Lauer &
Suter Co., 208 Fed. 1005), and the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Fourth Circuit (Lauter & Suter Co. v. Hildreth, 219 Fed. 753). In this view, after a consideration
of the record, and for the reasons stated, we concur. The
history of the art shows that Dickinson took the important but long delayed and therefore not obvious step
from the pulling of candy by two hands guided by a
human mind and will to the performance of the same
function by machine. The ultimate effbct of this step
with the mechanical or patentable improvements of his
device was to make candy pulling more sanitary, to re-

HILDRETH v. MASTORAS.
27.

Opinion of the Court.

duce its cost to one-tenth of what it had been before him,
and to enlarge the field of the art. He was, therefore, a
pioneer.
We come now to the question of infringement. In the
Langer patent, applied for in 1916 and issued in 1917,
which the alleged infringement embodies, there is a socalled "floating puller," which is carried through a course
of travel corresponding in form to the figure 8, and around
fixed supporting pins arranged concentrically within the
two circular portions of figure 8. The candy is pulled by
the floating puller and alternately carried thereby around
the fixed supporting pins. Instead of having Dickinson's
single stationary pin and two other pins which move
relatively to it and to one another, the machine of the
Langer patent has two stationary pins and a third one
which moves relatively to both of them in an actual and
rigid figure 8.
Taking the first claim of Dickinson's patent as it reads,
one can trace every element of it in the Langer machine.
We find there a plurality of oppositely-disposed candy
hooks or supports. The candy-puller is found in the
movable pin of Langer, and a relative in-and-out motion
in the pulling process is palpably present.
Both Dickinson and Langer in their specifications characterize the path of the candy under the operation of the
hooks as being along a course of travel corresponding in
form to the figure 8. The Circuit Court of Appeals found,
however, that the in-and-out movement of the Langer
patent was different from the in-and-out movement of
the Dickinson patent, in that it was a true figure 8 in the
former, whereas in the Dickinson patent the candy follows
a path of a series of V's and not a true figure 8 path at
all. We differ from the Court of Appeals in this view.
The actual movement of the candy in the Langer patent,
even though the movable pin follows a fixed path of figure
8, forms a succession of V's closely resembling the V's

36

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

of the Dickinson patent, so that in each the path of the
candy is better described as an in-and-out movement than
as a figure 8. The arrangement of the hooks by Langer
is better than Dickinson's, but' the principle of their operation is the same.
The counsel for the respondent, however, urge that the
trough, not shown in the alleged infringement, is a necessary element of Dickinson's claim, because without it the
batch of candy could not be supported against gravity, and
he suggests no alternative. Dickinson says in his specifications that he shows a trough for supporting the candy,
but any suitable support may be used which has the capacity for supporting the candy while it is being operated
upon. Two of the machines, the Jenner and the first
Thibodeau, which were in interference in the Patent Office
with Dickinson, had the pins set, not in an upright but
in a horizontal position, and thus the candy in their
machines needed no trough support but rested on the
pins themselves, and this Langer has adopted. Doubtless
this was an improvement which was perhaps patentable,
but none of the tribunals in the Patent Office proceedings
deemed this to be more than an improved equivalent of
the trough which did not take these machines out of the
domination of the claim awarded to Dickinson. As the
Dickinson patent is a generic patent, the doctrine of
broad equivalents properly applies here. Morley .Sewing
Machine Co. v. Lancaster, 129 U. S. 263, 273; Miller v.
Eagle Manufacturing Co., 151 U. S. 186, 207; Paper Bag
Patent Case, 210 U. S. 405.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the issuing of
the Langer patent, after the Dickinson patent, raised the
presumption of a patentable difference between that
patent and the Dickinson patent, and against infringement. It is not necessary for us, however, to discuss that
question, for we think that whatever presumption against
infringement may attach to the issuing of the second

UNITED STATES v. SACKS.
27.

37

Syllabus.

patent, if any, the evidence here is quite sufficient to overcome it.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed,
and that of the District Court is affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. SACKS.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 48. Argued October 20, 1921.-Decided November 7,- 1921.
1. Under the Act of September 24, 1917, amended September 24,
1918, cc. 56, 176, 40 Stat. 291, 966, authorizing the Secretary of
the Treasury to borrow money and to issue therefor, at such price
or prices and upon such terms and conditions as he might determine, war savings certificates in amounts of not more than $100 to
any one person at any one time, and of which no one person at
any one time should hold more than $1,000, and further providing
that the Secretary might issue stamps, under such regulations and
upon such terms and conditions as he might prescribe, to evidence
payments for or on account of the certificates, the Secretary was
empowered to issue non-transferable certificates valid only when
bearing one or more such stamps and when endorsed with the name
of its owner. Pp. 39, 41.
2. War savings certificates and war savings certificate stamps, issued
pursuant to the act and the regulations, are obligations of the
United States within the meaning of §§ 148 and 151 of the Criminal
Code. P. 40.
3. One who tears war savings certificate stamps from a war savings
certificate issued to another, with intent to use them apart from the
certificate bearing the purchaser's name, alters the obligation with
intent to defraud (the United States) in the sense of Criminal
Code, § 148, since the purposes of the Act of September 24, 1917,
supra, and the conditions provided to insure them, will thus be
fraudulently defeated. P. 42.
4. Possession of part of such certificate and attached stamps, with
intent to defraud the United States as above, is a violation of
Criminal Code, § 151. P. 42.
Reversed.

