TERRAL v. BURKE CONSTR. CO.

529

Argument for Appellant..

TERRAL, AS SECRETARY OF STATE OF THE
STATE OF ARKANSAS, v. BURKE CONSTRUCTION COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 93. Argued January 17, 1922.-Decided February 27, 1922.
A state law which revokes the license of a foreign corporation to do
business within the State because, while doing only a domestic business within the State, it resorts to the federal court sitting in the
State, is unconstitutional. P. 532. Doyle v. Continental Insurance Co., 94 U. S. 535, and Security Mutual Life Insurance Co. v.

Prewitt, 202 U. S. 246, held to have been overruled.
Affirmed.
ERROR to a decree of the District Court enjoining the

appellant from revoking the license of the appellee corporation to do business in Arkansas.
Mr. J. S. Utley, Attorney General of the State of Arkansas, and Mr. FrankS. Quinn, for appellant, submitted.

It is alleged in the bill that the complainant is engaged
in interstate commerce. The averment is overcome by
the denial in the answer. Iowa v. Illinois, 147 U. S. 7.
The act in controversy is not repugnant to the Constitution as an undue requirement or regulation of a foreign
corporation not engaged in interstate commerce. State v.
Hodges, 114 Ark. 155; Doyle v. Continental Insurance
Co., 94 U. S. 535; Security Mutual Life Insurance Co. v.
Prewitt, 202 U. S. 246.
After the Doyle and Prewitt Cases, came the decisions
in Western Union Telegraph'Co.v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1;
Herndon v. Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co., 218
U. S. 135; and Harrison v. St. Louis & San Francisco
R. R. Co., 232 U. S. 318. Those cases held that any state
regulation of interstate commerce was void. In Wisconsin v. Philadelphia& Reading Coal & Iron Co., 241 U. S.

530

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

329, t#e question was again before this court. In that
case the company was engaged in interstate as well as
intrastate commerce.
The conclusion to be reached, as we conceive it, from
the above decisions, is, that, in determining the validity
of the act here in question, the facts surrounding this
particular case must control; if the appellee is not engaged
in interstate commerce and is not a foreign commercial
corporation, then the act is constitutional as to it.
Mr. William Marshall Bullitt, with whom Mr. James
B. McDonough was on the briefs, for appellee.
MR. CHImF JusTIcE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an appeal from the District Court under ยง 238
of the Judicial Code, in a case in which the law of a State
is claimed to be in contravention of the Constitution of
the United Stites.
The Burke Construction Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Missouri, filed its
bill against Terral, Secretary of State of Arkansas, averring that it had been licensed to do business in the State
of Arkansas under an act of the Arkansas Legislature approved May 13, 1907; that it was organized for the purpose of doing construction work, and carrying on interstate commerce, and was actually so engaged In Arkansas;
that the right to do business in the State was a valuable
privilege, and the revocation of the license would greatly
injure it; that it had biought an, original suit in the federal court of Arkansas and'had removed a suit brought
against it to the same federal court; that the Secretary
of State was about to revoke the license because of such
suit and such removal, acting under the requirement of
ยง 1 of the Act of the Legislature of Arkansas of May 13,
1907, reading as follows:

TERRAL v. BURKE CONSTR. CO.
529.

Opinion of the Court.

"If any company shall, without the consent of the other
party to any suit or proceeding brought by or against it
in any court of this State, remove said suit or proceeding
to any Federal court, or shall institute any suit or proveeding against any citizen of this State in any Federal
court it shall be the duty of the Secretary of State to
forthwith revoke all authority to such company and its
agents to do business in this State, and to publish such
revocation in some newspaper of general circulation published in this State; and if such corporation shall thereafter continue to do business in this State, it shall be subject to the penalty of this Act for each day it shall continue to do business in this State after such revocation."
The penalty fixed is not less than $1,000 a day. The
Construction Company avers that this act is in contravention of ยง 2, Article III, i. e., the judiciary article of the
Federal Constitution, and of ยง 1 of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
The defendant fied an answer in which there were
many denials. One was that the complainant was engaged in interstate commerce. The answer did not deny,
however, that the complainant was a foreign corporation,
that it had been duly granted a license to do business in
the State of Arkansas, that its right to do business in the
State thus licensed was a valuable right, that the complainant had brought suit in the federal district court and
removed another case to that court, that such suit and removal were violations of the license granted by the State
of Arkansas, or that the defendant intended to cancel the
plaintiff's license. The case was heard on bill and answer,
and is to be considered on the averments of the bill which
are not denied by the answer. Iowa v. Illinois, 147 U. S.
1,7.
The sole question presented on the record is whether a
state law is unconstitutional which revokes a license to a
foreign corporation to do business within the State be-

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

cause, while doing only a domestic business in the State,
it resorts to the federal court sitting in the State.
The cases in this court in which the conflict between the
power of a State to exclude a foreign corporation from
doing business within its borders, and the federal constitutional right of such foreign corporation to resort to the
federal courts has been considered, can not be reconciled.
They began with Insurance Co. v. Morse, 20 Wall. 445,
which was followed by Doyle v. Continental Insurance
Co., 94 U. S. 535; Barron v. Burnside, 121 U. S. 186;
Southern Pacific Co. v. Denton, 146 U. S. 202; Martin
v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 151 U. S. 673, 684; Barrow S. S. Co. v. Kane, 170 U. S. 100, 111; Security Mutual
Life Insurance Co. v. Prewitt, 202 U. S. 246; Herndon v.
Chicago, Rock Island'& Pacific Ry. Co., 218 U. S. 135;
Harrison v. St. Louis & San Francisco R. R. Co., 232
U.'S. 318, and Wisconsin v. Philadelphia& Reading Coal
& Iron Co., 241 U. S. 329.
The principle established by the more recent decisions
of this court is that a State may not, in imposing conditions upon the privilege of a foreign corporation'a doing
business in the State, exact from it a waiver of the exercise
of its constitutional right to resort to the federal courts,
or thereafter withdraw the privilege of doing business
because of its exercise of such right, whether waived in
advance or-not. The principle does not depend for its
application on the character of the business the corporation does, whether state or interstate, although that has
been suggested as a distinction in some cases. It rests
on the ground that the Federal Constitution confers upon
citizens of one State the right to resort to federal courts
in another, that state action, whether legislative or executive, necessarily calculated to curtail the free exercise of
the right thus secured is void because the sovereign power
of a State in excluding foreign corporations, as in the exercise of all others of its sovereign powers, is subject to the

MISSOURI PAC. R. R. CO. v. CLARENDON CO. 533
529.

Statement of the Case.

limitations of the supreme fundamental law. It follows
that the cases of Doyle v. ContinentalInsurance Co., 94
U. S. 535, and Security Mutual Life Insurance Co. v.
Prewitt, 202 U. S. 246, must be considered as overruled
and that the views of the minority judges in those cases
have become the law of this court. The appellant in proposing to comply with the statute in question and revoke
the license was about to violate the constitutional right
of the appellee. In enjoining him the District Court was
right, and its decree is
Affirmed.
MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.
CLARENDON BOAT OAR COMPANY, INC.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS, SECOND CIRCUITr,

OF THE

STATE OF LOUISIANA.

No. 102. Argued January 20, 1922.-Decided February 27, 1922.
A state law for securing jurisdiction over foreign corporations in proceedings in the state courts, by requiring appointment of agents
upon whom process may be served, applicable alike t6 actions by
residents or nonresidents, clearly does not violate due process in not
applying to transitory actions arising outside the State; a contention to the contrary made by plaintiff foreign corporation is frivolous, and will not support a writ of error. P. 534.

Writ of error dismissed.
ERROR to review a judgment of the Court of Appeals of
Louisiana affirming a judgment of a District Court of the
State and dismissing for want of jurisdiction an action for
breach of contract brought by the railroa against the
Boat Oar Company.
Mr. Allan Sholar8, with whom Mr. Henry Bernstein and
Mr. F. G. Hudson, Jr., were on the brief, for plaintiff in
error.

No brief filed for defendant in error.

