OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Counsel for Parties.

257 U. S.

CUNNINGHAM v. RODGERS ET AL.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPFALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 42. Argued October 17, 18, 1921.-Decided January 3, 1922.
1. An action against a consul-general, upon his official bond, (Rev.
Stats., ยง 1697, as amended,) for damage caused by his failure to
perform his official duties touching the personal property of a
decedent, can not be maintained 'by one who is not the personal
representative but merely a possible owner of a share of the
decedent's estate. P. 468.
2. A declaration alleging that an American citizen, dying in China,
left valuable real estate, standing in his name in the land records
of the United States Consulate at Shanghai, and that the consulgeneral there, despite his duty to conserve the decedent's estate,
caused one to whom he had illegally granted alleged letters testamentary, to convey it to a third party without consideration,
although the deceased had not devised it, and that such assumption
of jurisdiction on the part of the said consul-general, though illegal
and void, had the effect of dissipating a valuable part of the estate
to the consequent loss of the decedents brother, the plaintiff,states no cause of action against the consul-general on his official
bond. P. 468.
50 App. D. C. 51; 267 Fed. 609, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the court below affirming a
judgment of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia sustaining a demurrer to the declaration in an action
for debt and dismissing the action.
Mr. Clinton Robb and Mr. George F. Curtis,with whom
Mr. Leonard J. Mather was on the brief, for plaintiff in
error.

Mr. William C. Herron, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Friersonwas on the brief, for defendants in error.

CUNNINGHAM v. RODGERS.
466.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUST1CE McREYwOL S delivered the opinion of the

court.
Section 1697, Revised Statutes, as amended by Act of
December 21, 1898, c. 36, 30 Stat. 770, requires every Consul-General before receiving his commission to execute a
bond conditioned for the true and faithful performance
of duties lawfully imposed upon him as such officer. It
is copied in the margin.
Purporting to proceed under this section plaintiff in
error brought an action in the Supreme Court, District
of Columbia, against James Linn Rodgers, once Consul1,

Sec. 1697. Every consul-general, consul, and commercial agent,
before he receives his commission, or enters upon the duties of his
office, shall give a bond to the United States, with-such sureties,
who shall be permanent residents of the United States, as the Secretary of State shall approve, in a penal sum not less than one
thousand dollars, and in no case less than the annual compensation
allowed to such officer, and not more than ten thousand dollars, and
in such form as the President shall prescribe, conditioned for the
true and faithful accounting for, paying over, and delivering up of
all fees, moneys, goods, effects, books, records, papers, and other
property which shall come to his hands, or to the hands of any other
person, to his use as such consul-general, consul, or. commercial agent
under any law, now or hereafter enacted, or by virtue of his office;
and for the true and faithful performance of all other duties, now or
hereafter lawfully imposed upon him as such consul-general, consul,
or commercial agent. The bond herein mentioned shall be deposited
with the Secretary of the Treasury. In case of a breach of any such
bond, any person thereby injured may institute, in his own name
and for his sole use, a suit on said bond, and thereupon recover such
damages as shall be legally assessed, with costs of suit, for which
execution may issue for him in due form; but if such party fails to
recover in the suit, judgment shall be rendered and execution may
issue against him for costs in favor of the defendant, and the United
States shall, in no case, be liable for the same. The said bond shall
remain, after any judgment rendered thereon, as a security for the
benefit of any person injured by a breach of the condition of the
same until the whole penalty has been recovered; and the proceeding shall always be as directed in this section:

468

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

General at Shanghai, China, and the sureties upon his
official bond. Process was served upon him but the sureties
were not summoned and did not appear. The declaration alleges execution of the bond, its breach by Rodgers' failure to discharge his official dutiss concerning
property left by plaintiff's brother who died in China June
10, 1905, and asks a recovery upon the bond for damages
suffered. The trial court sustained a demurrer to the
declaration, and upon appeal this action was affirmed.
The Court of Appeals held that if the Consul-General's
failure to perform his official duties concerning the personal property caused loss, the damage was to the estate,
and plaintiff, being a mere possible owner of a distributive share, could not recover in his own right-any possible right of action was in the administrator. This we
think was clearly right.
The second count of the painfully prolix declaration
alleges "that there were left by said decedent certain
valuable real property in the Pao Shan District in
Shanghai, China, of the value of, to wit, $5,000.00, which,
outstanding in decedents name in the Land Records of
said United States Consulate at Shanghai, China, it was
the duty of the said defendant, James Linn Rodgers, to
conserve to said decedent's estate; but notwithstanding
his said duty in this respect and in utter violation thereof,
and in breach of the condition of his said bond and writing obligatory, he, the said defendant, James Linn
Rodgers, instructed one E. H. Dunning to convey and
transfer the same over to a certain Mrs. Green, gratuitously, and without any consideration passing therefor,
four days after he had illegally and improperly granted
alleged letters testamentary to the said E. H. Dunning
. . . that no such real estate was devised or sought
to be devised under the paper writing hereinbefore referred to as the pretended last will and testament of the
said Henry H. Cunningham, deceased

. . . and said

GRANT SMITH-PORTER CO. v. ROHDE. 469
466.

Syllabus.

assumption of a jurisdiction and power to so instruct the
said E. H. Dunning, was wholly illegal and void, although
having the effect of dissipating a valuable part of plaintiff's deceased brother's estate, to the consequent loss of
plaintiff by this, said defendant James Linn Rodgers'
violation and breach of the condition of his bond and
writing obligatory, so as aforesaid given to insure plaintiff all legal and proper protection of his said interests in
and to his deceased brother's estate, as aforesaid."
The plaintiff's whole cause is presented upon the theory
that Rodgers had no power to administer the estate of
the deceased brother or to do aught in reference thereto
but what the statutes authorized; "namely, conserve.
and transmit to the United States for proper and legal
distribution according to the laws of decedent's domicile."
No statute is cited which imposes any duty in respect of
real estate upon a consul in China. Under such circumstances mere allegation that defendant unlawfully assumed to instruct one holding void letters testamentary
to transfer such property without consideration is wholly
insufficient to show an actionable breach of official duty,
or adequately to point out personal damage suffered by
plainfiff in error. Real estate can not be dissipated by
mere direction gratuitously to convey it issued without
semblance of authority. The judgment below is
Affirmed.
GRANT SMITH-PORTER SHIP COMPANY v.
ROIDE.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR

THE NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 35. Argued December 7. 1920.-Decided January 3, 1922.
A workman employed generally as a carpenter by a builder of seagoing vessels was injured through the employer's negligence, while

engaged in construction work on a ship nearly completed and

