GRANT SMITH-PORTER CO. v. ROHDE. 469
466.

Syllabus.

assumption of a jurisdiction and power to so instruct the
said E. H. Dunning, was wholly illegal and void, although
having the effect of dissipating a valuable part of plaintiff's deceased brother's estate, to the consequent loss of
plaintiff by this, said defendant James Linn Rodgers'
violation and breach of the condition of his bond and
writing obligatory, so as aforesaid given to insure plaintiff all legal and proper protection of his said interests in
and to his deceased brother's estate, as aforesaid."
The plaintiff's whole cause is presented upon the theory
that Rodgers had no power to administer the estate of
the deceased brother or to do aught in reference thereto
but what the statutes authorized; "namely, conserve.
and transmit to the United States for proper and legal
distribution according to the laws of decedent's domicile."
No statute is cited which imposes any duty in respect of
real estate upon a consul in China. Under such circumstances mere allegation that defendant unlawfully assumed to instruct one holding void letters testamentary
to transfer such property without consideration is wholly
insufficient to show an actionable breach of official duty,
or adequately to point out personal damage suffered by
plainfiff in error. Real estate can not be dissipated by
mere direction gratuitously to convey it issued without
semblance of authority. The judgment below is
Affirmed.
GRANT SMITH-PORTER SHIP COMPANY v.
ROIDE.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR

THE NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 35. Argued December 7. 1920.-Decided January 3, 1922.
A workman employed generally as a carpenter by a builder of seagoing vessels was injured through the employer's negligence, while

engaged in construction work on a ship nearly completed and

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Defendant.

257 U. S.

launched and lying in navigable waters of the United States in
Oregon. Both parties had accepted the Oregon Workmen's Compensation Law, which in the absence of its rejection by either
employer or employee requires the employer to make payments,
including deductions from the employee's wages, to a compensation
fund, specifies the sums which the employee may receive therefrom
in case of injury, and declares they shall be in lieu of all claims
against his employer on account of the injury.
Held: (1) The general doctrine is that in contract matters admiralty
jurisdiction depends upon the nature of the transaction and in tort
matters upon the locality. P. 476.
(2) The general admiralty jurisdiction extends to a proceeding to
recover damages resulting from a tort committed on a vessel in
process of construction when lying on navigable waters within a
State. P. 477.
(3) But in this case, since the contract for the construction of the
vessel was non-maritime, and since neither the employment of
the workman nor his activities at the time of injury had any
direct relation to commerce or navigation, the application of the
Oregon Compensation Law, with reference to which employer and
employee had contracted, could not materially affect any of the
rules of the sea whose uniformity is essential, and was therefore
permissible. P. 477. Unim Fish Co. v. Erickson, 248 U. S. 308;
Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205, and other cases,
distinguished.
(4) In view of its exclusive features, the Oregon Act abrogated the
right of the employee to recover damages in an admiralty court,
which otherwise would exist. P. 478.

THIs was a proceeding in admiralty to recover damages
for personal injuries resulting to an employee. The
questions are determined on a certificate from the court
below stating the facts.
Mr. Charles A. Hart, with whom Mr. Charles H. Carey
and. Mr. James B. Kerr were on the brief, for Grant
Smith-Porter Ship Company.
Rohde's contract of employment required services as
a carpenter and joiner in the construction of a ship before
and after launching; and neither before nor after launch-

ing is such work maritime in character.

GRANT SMITH-PORTER CO. v. ROHDE. 471
469.

Argument for Defendant.

So far as we have been able to find this court has not
been asked to sustain admiralty jurisdiction over torts
which apart from the circumstance of locality were in no
respect maritime. Distinguishing Thomas v. Lane, Fed.
Cas. No. 13,902. The Plymouth, 3 Wall. 20; North
PacificS. S. Co. v. Hall Bros. Co., 249 U. S. 119.
In one class of cases several times before this court, the
test of locality alone has proven insufficient: Negligent
operation of vesgels resulting in damage to structures in
channels is cognizable in admiralty if the structure injured
is in the channel for purposes of navigation and not otherwise; and this is true even though the structure is as
firmly fixed to the bottom of the channel as are the piers
of a railroad bridge. Philadelphia, Wilmington & Baltimore R. R.- Co. v. Philadelphia Towboat Co., 23 How.
209; The Blackheath, 195 U. S. 361; Cleveland Terminal
R. R. Co. v. Cleveland S. S. Co., 208 U. S. 316; Martin v.
West, 222 U. S. 191; The Raithmoor,241 U. S. 166.
There are obvious difficulties in the way of extending
admiralty jurisdiction to a tort arising ex contractuwhen
the contract itself is non-maritime. The grant of admiralty jurisdiction contemplates the administration of the
general rules of the maritime law, Knickerbocker Ice Co.
v. Stewart, 253 U. S. 149; and there is'an apparent
anomaly in the extension of that jurisdiction, because of
the accident of locality, to rights of action founded upon
and controlled by state law.
If the jurisdiction may be extended through the chance
of locality to transactions non-maritime in character, the
necessary consequence is the extension of the general rules
of the maritime law to such transactions. If the servant
injured after launching is to look to the maritime law
for his remedy, the master necessarily must be governed
by that law in contracting for his labor.
The nature and extent of a duty imposed by law
because of a contract relation cannot be determined with-

4Zi

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Defendant.

257 U. S.

out consideration of the contract itself. The limitation
upon the duty of a common carrier to a free passenger by
the terms of the pass illustrates the point. Northern
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Adams, 192 U. S. 440. Therefore the
assumption of jurisdiction to determine the tort question
implies a like assumption of jurisdiction to determine the
contract relations of the parties; and to apply this to
ship construction results in an encroachment upon the
power of the States not hitherto attempted.
No requirement of maritime commerce compels uniformity.in shipbuilding throughout the country; and it
seems obvious that nothing in state regulation of the
master and servant relation in ship construction work
interferes with the proper harmony and uniformity of
the maritime law in its international and interstate
relations.
In each of the recent master and servant cases in which
admiralty jurisdiction was sustained, the decision made
clear that the employment was a maritime contract and
the work maritime in its nature. Southern Pacific Co.
v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205; Chelentis v. Luckenbach S. S.
Co., 247 U. S. 372; Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart,
supra.
The application of the Oregon Act to shipbuilding
affects in no way the needed uniformity in maritime
matters. Unlike the New York Act, the Oregon statute
wipes out no rights or obligations existing under the maritime law; nor does it, of its own force, alter in the slightest
degree the rights and remedies enforcible in the courts
of admiralty. Its applicability results from the election
of the party. The decisions in the Jensen and Stewart
Cases indicate that the New York Act was declared inoperative as to maritime work because it was a compulsory compensation law.

GRANT SMITH-PORTER CO. v. ROHDE. 473
469.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Harry A. Hegarty, with whom Mr. Lee Roy E.
Keeley and Mr. C. Larrimore Keeley were on the brief,
for Rohde.
The question certified does not touch upon the construction of any contract between the libelant and the
respondent, or between the respondent and the Fleet Corporation.
The true test is locality-navigable waters of the
United States. Thomas v. Lane, Fed. Cas. No. 13,902;
Atlantic Transport Co. v. Imbrovek, 234 U. S.52; Johnson v. Chicago & Pacific Elevator Co., 119 U. S. 388;
Martin v. West, 222 U. S. 191; The Plymouth, 3 Wall.
20; Tucker v. Alexandroff, 183 U. S. 424.
The Oregon statute, in so far as it affects purely maritime matters, is not essentially different from the New
York statute condemned in Knickerbocker Ice Co. v.
Stewart, 253 U. S. 149. Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen,
244 U. S. 205; Tucker v. Alexandrof], supra.
- MR. JUSTicE McRyN oDs delivered the opinion of the
court.
Asking for instruction, the court below has sent up the
following certificate and questions. Judicial Code, ยง 239.
"This cause came to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit upon an appeal from the United States
District Court of Oregon from a judgment in favor of the
appellee as libelant in that court, and against the appellant as libelee in that court, for the sum of $10,000.
The cause was a libel in admiralty for damages for injury sustained.
"Libelant, Herman F. Rohde, received injury while at
work on a partially completed vessel lying at a dock in
the Willamette River forming a part of the shipbuilding
plant of respondent, Grant Smith-Porter Ship Company.
The character of the work being done by libelant and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

operations of respondent of which the work formed a part
are as follows: Respondent, Grant Smith-Porter Ship
Company, at and prior to the time of libelant's injury
was engaged in constructing steam vessels for the United
States government under contract with United States
Shipping Board Emergency Fleet Corporation. One of
these steam vessels was the steamer 'Ahala.' Prior to the
time of libelant's injury this steamer had been launched
in the Willanette River at Portland, Oregon, which river
is a part of the navigable waters of the United States.
At the time of libelant's injury, April 10, 1919, the vessel
had been substantially completed, but was not ready for
delivery and all of the work in process at the time of
libelant's injury was work pertaining to the construction
of the vessel by respondent, Grant Smith-Porter Ship
Company. Libelant's work was that of a carpenter or
joiner and at the time of the injury he was at work constructing a bulkhead enclosing certain tanks in the vessel.
"Libelant began this proceeding in personam against
respondent in the District Court of the United States for
the District of Oregon sitting in admiralty. Negligence
of the employer, respondent Grant Smith-Porter Ship
Company, in the construction and maintenance of a scaffold is alleged as the ground for recovering of damages.
"At and prior to the time of libelant's injury, there was
in effect the so-called 'Workmen's Compensation Law'
of the State of Oregon (Chapter 112, Laws of Oregon,
1913, as amended Chapter 271 Laws of 1915, and Chapter
288 Laws of 1917). The law applied to hazardous occupations (including shipbuilding) within the State of Oregon. An option is given both to employers and workmen
to accept the compensation law or to reject it; that is,
both employers and workmen are required to notify the
proper state authority if it is desired not to come under
the act. Without such notice, the law is applicable and
payments are required to be made by the employer, which

GRANT SMITH-PORTER CO. v. ROHDE. 475
469.

Opinion of the Court.

payments include deductions from the wages of workmen.
Workmen who thus come under the act are entitled to receive certain specified payments in the event of injury,
and the act provides (Section 12): 'And the right to
receive such sum or sums shall be in lieu of all claims
against his employer on account of such injury or death,
except as hereinafter specially provided.'
"At and prior to the time of libelant's injury, respondent was engaged in shipbuilding operations on the Willamette River at Portland within the State of Oregon;
and libelant was in its employ as a carpenter or joiner in
such shipbuilding operations. Prior to the time of the
injury, neither respondent, the employer, nor libelant, the
workman, had notified the appropriate state authority
of any rejection of the provisions of the Workmen's Compensation Act, and up to the time of the injury, respondent, the employer, had taken all the steps required by the
compensation act to bring the work under its provisions;
and there had been deducted and paid over to the commission administering the compensation fund payments
from wages earned and paid libelant, the workman, up to
the time of the injury. Payroll deductions from the
wages of libelant and other workmen were made without
regard to whether or not the work done by such workman
was on vessels under construction on the ways or vessels
under construction after launching.
"Questions of law concerning which the Circuit Court
of Appeals of the Ninth Circuit desires the instruction of
the Supreme Court are: 1. Is there jurisdiction in admiralty because the alleged tort occurred on navigable
waters? 2. Is libelant entitled because of his injury to
proceed in admiralty against respondent for the damages
suffered?"
The contract for constructing "The Ahala" was nonmaritime, and although the incompleted structure upon
which the accident occurred was lying in navigable waters,

476

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

neither Rohde's general employment, nor his activities at
the time had any direct relation to navigation or commerce. Thames Towboat Co. v. The Schooner "Francis.
McDonald," 254 U. S. 242. The ijury was suffered
within a State whose positive enactment prescribed an
exclusive remedy therefor. And as both parties had accepted and proceeded under the statute by making payments to the Industrial Accident Fund it cannot properly
bd said that they consciously contracted with each other
in contemplation of the general system of maritime law.
Union Fish Co. v. Erickson, 248 U. S. 308. Under such
circumstances regulation of the rights, obligations and
consequent liabilities of the parties, as between themselves, by a local rule would not necessarily work material
prejudice to any characteristic feature of the general maritime law, or interfere with the proper harmony or uniformity of that law in its international or interstate relations. Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205;
Western Fuel Co. v. Garcia,ante, 233.
The general doctrine that in contract matters admiralty
jurisdiction depends upon the nature of the transaction
and in tort matters upon the locality, has been so frequently asserted by this court that it must now be treated
as settled. Waring v. Clarke, 5 How. 441, 459; Philadelphia, Wilmington & Baltimore R. R. Co. v. Philadelphia
Towboat Co., 23 How. 209, 215; The Propeller Commerce, 1 Black, 574, 579; The Plymouth, 3 Wall. 20, 33;
Leathers v. Blessing, 105 U. S. 626, 630; Martin v. West,
222 U. S. 191, 197. See Atlantic Transport Co. v. Imbrovek, 234 U. S.52, 59; and Hughes on Admiralty, 2d
ed., p. 195.
The Workmen's Compensation Law of Oregon declares
that when a workman subject to its terms is accidently
injured in the course of his employment he "shall be
entitled to receive from the Industrial Accident Fund

GRANT SMITH-PORTER 00. v. ROHDE. 477
Opinion of the Court.

469.

hereby created the sum or sums hereinafter specified and
the right to receive such sum or sums shall be in lieu of
all claims against his employer on account of such injury
or death

.

.

In Western Fuel Co. v. Garcia, supra, we recently
pointed out that, as to certain local matters regulation of
which would work no material prejudice to the general
maritime law, the rules of the latter might be modified or
supplemented by state statutes. The present case is controlled by that principle. The statute of the State applies and defines the rights and liabilities of the parties.
The employee may assert his claim against the Industrial
Accident Fund to which both he and the employer have
contributed as provided by the statute, but he can not
recover damages in an admiralty court.
This conclusion accords with Southern Pacific Co. v.
Jensen, 244 U. S.205; Chelentis v. Luckenbach S. S. Co.,
247 U. S.372; Union Fish Co. v. Erickson, 248 U. S. 08;
and Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S. 149. In
each of them the employment or contract was maritime
in nature and the rights and liabilities of the parties were
prescribed by general rules of maritime law essential to its
proper harmony and uniformity. Here the parties contracted with reference to the state statute; their rights
and liabilities had no direct relation to navigation, and
the application of the local law cannot materially affect
any rules of the sea whose uniformity is essential.
As pointed out in The Ira M. Hedges, 218 U. S. 264,
270, "there sometimes is difficulty in distinguishing between matters going to the jurisdiction and those determining the merits." The certified questions are not
wholly free from uncertainty of that nature and we therefore state our view of their real intendment.
Construing the first question as meaning to inquire
whether the general admiralty jurisdiction extends to a

478

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

proceeding to recover damages resulting from a tort committed on a Vessel in process of construction when lying
on navigable waters within a State, we answer, yes.
Assuming that the second question presents the inquiry
whether in the circumstances stated the exclusive features
of the Oregon Workmen's Compensation Act would apply
and abrogate the right to recover damages in an admiralty court which otherwise would exist, we also answer, yes.

MR. JUSTICE CLARKE concurs in the result.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the decision of this
cause.
DAVIS,

DIRECTOR GENERAL OF RAILROADS,
ET AL. v. WALLACE ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NORTH DAKOTA.

No. 329. Argued December 16, 1921.-Decided January 9, 1922.
1. Where the case as made by the bill involves a real and substantial
question under the Constitution and the requisite jurisdictional
amount, the jurisdiction of the District Court, and of this court
upon a direct review of its action, extends to all other questions
involved, whether of federal or state law, and enables the court to
rest its judgment on the decision of such of the questions as in its
opinion effectually dispose of the case. P. 482.
2. Equity will enjoin collection of an illegal tax in the absence of an
adequate and certain remedy at law. P. 482.
3. The Act of North Dakota, Laws 1919, c. 222, which lays an excise
on foreign corporations of a'percentage of their capital actually invested in the transaction of business in the State, provides that,
for one engaged in business within and without the State, investment within the State shall mean that proportion of its entire
stock and bond issues which its intrastate business bears to its total
business; that where the busines within the State is not otherwise

