156

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

occupying or using the land, unless within some reasonable time, to be fixed by that court, they apply for and
obtain a right or license to use the same under the Act of
February 15, 1901, or some other applicable statute, and
as so modified is affirmed.

Decree modified and affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. PHELLIS.
APPEAL FROM TH
No. 260.

COURT OF CLAIMS.

Argued October 11, 1921--Decided November 21, 1921.

1. Substance and not form should conttl In tth application of the
Sixteenth Amendment and the Income tax laws enacted under it.
P. 168.
2. The Income Tax Law of October 3, 1913, in declaring that thd tax
shall be laid on gains, profits and income derived from dij~jdends,
means, not that everything in the form of a dividend must be
treated as income, but that income derived in the way of -dividends
shall be taxed. P. 168.
3. Income defined (p. 169) as in Eisner v. M44ner,252 U. S. 189.
4. With the concurrence of 90% of the stockholders of a torporation,
a plan of reorganization was e ected, pursuant to Which a new corporation with an authorized capital stock nearly four times as
great in par value as the aggregate stock and bonded indebtedness
of the old was formed under the laws of a different State, all the
assets of the old were transferred to the new, as a going cone~tu) 1Ieluding the good will and a large surplus, and, if W6'ilderation, the
old corporation retained money enough to redeem part of its bonds
and received (1) the new company's debenturestock of par value
sufficient to redeem the remainder, retire its own preferred stock
"and leave in its treasury an amount equal in par value to its own
outstanding common stock, and (2) the new compan's oblmon
stock of par value double the amount of the old company's outstanding common stock, which the latter immediately distributed
to its common stockholders as a dividend, paying them two shares
of the new for each of the old. Upon completion of the transaction, October 1, 1915, the personnel of the stockholders and officers
of the two corporations was identical, the stockholders having pro-

UNITED STATES v.. PHELLIS.
156.

157

Argument for the United States.

portionate holdings in each; but less than one-half of the new company's authorized stock had been issued. Thereafter, the old corporation continued as a going concern, but, except for the redemption of its bonds and retirement of its preferred stock, and the
holding of the debenture stock equal to its common, and collection
and disposition of the dividends thereon, did no business. Held:
(a) The shares of the new company's common stock which passed
to the old company and through it to its stockholders as a dividend,
representing its surplus, were income of the shareholders, taxable
under the Act of October 3, 1913. P. 169. (b) And this, although
the market value of the stockholder's old shares before the dividend
was the same as that of his old and new shares after it. P. 170.
(c) The new company must be regarded, not as substantially identical with the old, but as a separate entity, and its stockholders as
having property rights and interests materially different from those
incident to ownership of stock in the old company. P. 172. (d)
The new common stock in the treasury of the old company being
treasury assets representing accumulated profits and capable of
distribution, its distribution transferred to the several stockholders
new individual property, which they were severally entitled to
enjoy or to sell,--their individual income. P. 174.
56 Ct. Clms. 157, reversed.
APPEAL from a judgment sustaining a claim for a re-

fund of moneys paid under protest in discharge of an income tax assessment.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr. Carl A.
Mapes, Mr. Newton K. Fox and Mr. Andrew J. Aldridge
were on the brief, for the United States.
The New Jersey corporation could have distributed its
large surplus in cash or in specie, either as secufities or,
if divisible, tangible property. In either case the distribution would have been income. However, it sold its
entire plant to a new corporation. The fact that the new
corporation was formed by the managing body of the old
and that there was a momentary identity of stockholders
can not in any way affect the question. They formed the
new corporation in another State and with such franchises
as that State granted corporations of this character.

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for the United States.

257 U. S.

Whether these franchises, as granted by Delaware, were
the same or different from the franchise granted to the
old company by New Jersey does not appear. Presumably, the promoters of the new company found some advantage in securing a different corporate situs.
The new corporation had a much larger authorized
capital stock. The relations between the stockholders
inter sese were likewise changed in regard to the amounts,
kinds and proportions of stock authorized. Moreover,
the Delaware company retained in its treasury one-half
of its stock which was not issued; but, as it was authorized, its possible issue was contemplated. Therefore, potentially, the relative proportions of the common owners
of this property would be very much changed, and the
stockholders greatly augmented in numbers, if and when
one-half of the whole capital stock of the new corporation
was, as was possible, sold to the public.
The old company continued its operations as a company. Thenceforth it had the stock in question, out of
which it proceeded to retire its bonded indebtedness and,
so far as possible, its preferred stock, and it held the precise equivalent of its common stock in valuable interestbearing assets, and a large surplus, which it divided among
its stockholders. Nothing prevented it from taking its
existing assets, purchasing a new plant, and competing
with the new company. For all legal and practical purposes the two corporations were separate. The identity
of management and stockholders were potentially and
probably but temporary. And when we are considering
whether these corporations are or are not separate entities,
the possibilities or powers affect the question quite as
much as the temporary realities.
The fact that the distribution of securities by the New
Jersey corporation was contemporaneous with the sale of
its assets is also immaterial. It is not important when
these transactions took place, but what was their essen-

UNITED STATES v. PHELLIS.
156.

Argument for the United States.

tial character. The controlling question is, Was this distribution by the New Jersey company of Delaware stock a
distribution of surplus earnings, or was it merely a duplication of its own certificates, representing the same proportionate interest in the capital assets of the New Jersey
company? It is not denied that, whatever the nature of
this dividend may be, it represented a distribution of surplus profits, for the capital assets of the New Jersey company remained intact. Moreover, the Delaware stock
represented corporate interests in assets, which had been
severed from the New Jersey corporation by alienation.
Thenceforth the New Jersey stock could not be regarded
as representing proportionate interests in the plant and
assets thus conveyed; and the New Jersey stockholders
owned proportionate interests in securities of another corporation which were not only potentially but in fact different from those of the New Jersey corporation.
The reasoning in New York Trust Co. v. Edwards, 274
Fed. 952, seems more convincing than that of the court
below, which based its conclusion largely upon the inconclusive fact that the market value of the New Jersey
and Delaware stock in the stockholders' hands after the
dividend was the same as the value of the New Jersey
stock before the dividend. This normally happens whenever a corporation declares a dividend. It generally loses
in market value by the amount of the dividend, and this
is especially true where the dividend is a large or unusual
one. Judge Hand bases his conclusion upon the true
ground, viz, that the assets which were represented by the
Delaware stock were no longer the property of the New
Jersey company.
What matters it whether the Delaware stock, which
was issued against the assets purchased from the New
Jersey company, was distributed as a dividend to the New
Jersey stockholders, or the New Jersey stockholders first
received the cash and then got the Delaware stock? In

160

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for the United States.

257 U. S.

either event, the New Jersey stockholder received cash or
its equivalent, for he could sell his Delaware stock for cash
without diminishing his proportionate interest in the
capital stock of the New Jersey corporation.
The ownership by one corporation, or by the stockholders of one corporation, of the stock of another, does
not destroy the distinct legal entity of the two corporations. In cases involving taxation the courts have consistently refused to disregard the principle of corporate
entity. Eisner v. Macomber, 252 U. S. 189, 214. Southern Pacific Co. v. Lowe, 247 U. S. 330; and Gulf Oil Corporation,v. Lewellyn, 248 U. S. 71, are clearly distinguishable from the instant case. There is little similarity between the facts in those cases and the facts in the instant
case.

Peabody v. Eisner, 247 U. S. 347, is controlling. See
Eisnerv. Macomber, 252 U. S. 189, 211; Towne v. Eisner,
245 U. S. 418, 426.
The dividend in this case was not a liquidation dividend. Lynch v. Turrish, 247 U. S. 221, therefore, has no
application. The limitations of the Turrish Case are
clearly brought out in Lynch v. Hornby, 247 U. S. 339.
Fluctuation in market value is not the criterion which
determines whether income has been derived from capital,
but the segregation of corporate assets, which before segregation represented only an inchoate right of the stockholder, does determine whether income has been received.
See Eisner v. Macomber, supra, 208. The dividend came
ab extra and constituted "a gain derived from capital""income derived from any source whatever."
It is immaterial whether the property sold by the old
corporation to the new was acquired prior to, or after,
March 1, 1913. Lynch v. Hornby, supra.
The argument which evidently impressed the court below is the alleged hardship upon the stockholder. But we
are dealing with a distribution of profits which were un-

UNITED STATES v. PBHELLIS.
156.

Argument for Appellee.

precedented in size. The case in principle would not differ
whether the dividend was large or small in proportion to
par value. This court should be very slow in asserting a
principle with respect to a dividend of unusual size, which
would necessarily be applicable to a very much smaller
dividend. The hardship, however, is more apparent than
real.
Mr. William A. Glasgow, Jr., and Mr. Frank S. Bright,
with whom Mr. J.P. Laffey and Mr. C. R. Mudge were on
the brief, for appellee.
The common stock of the Delaware company received
by appellee was not "income arising or accruing to him,"
nor was it "gain or profit derived by him "; it was simply
the evidence of his pro rata interest in the assets of the
company which it was determined to retain in the business, in increasing the capital, upon a financial reorganization, and was not assessable under the Act of 1913.
It is evident that there was no purpose to distribute any
part of the assets of the New Jersey company, but that
the purpose was to fix and retain all of the assets, cash
and good will in an operating corporation, as capital, and
to prevent the distribution thereof to the stockholders,
issuing to them, however, additional certificates as evidence of the same proportionate interests in exactly the
same assets; and that the plan contemplated the continued operation of the business as an entirety, and under
a new charter, as a going concern.
If upon a valuation of its assets the New Jersey company had determined that all of the assets were to be retained as capital, and had issued to its stockholders pro
rata common stock based upon this valuation, there could
be no contention that the stockholders had received income, gain or profit. This is admitted by the Government.
There is in substance no difference between an issue
of common stock as evidence of pro rata interest in the

162

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellee.

257 U. S.

same assets and business, whether issued by the old company or by the new. It is only a question of form. Before the transaction the stockholder's interest was represented by one certificate,-afterwards by three; and his
proportionate interest was the same in the undivided assets, as found by the court below. Gibbons v. Mahon,
136 U. S. 549, 558, 559; Eisner v. Macomber, 252 U. S.
189, 207, 210, 213.
On September 30, 1915, a stockholder of the old company having one share held a certificate which he could
sell in the open market for $795. This value did not accrue in the preceding calendar year, but was the accumulated value based upon the company's assets. By the
reorganization of the old company and the transfer of
its assets to the new, the same stockholder held, on
October 1, 1915, three shares of stock represented by
two certificates based upon exactly the same assets, undistributed, upon which his one share in the old company was based. There had been no, segregation of
profits; there was no certificate representing a personal
gain to appellee, since the certificates new and old are
alike in what they represent-a capital interest in the
entire concerns of the corporation. The three shares were
worth exactly what his one share in the old company was
worth on September 30th, and appellee had no profit by
the transaction, there had been no gain derived from capital, no gain had accrued to him, and under no proper construction of the facts can it be held that he derived income
from this readjustment of the financial business of the
company.
The capital and profits of the old company were so far
absorbed in the business which was transferred to the new
company as an entirety and as a going concern, that the
effect thereof was to render it impracticable to separate
them for withdrawal and distribution. This transaction
added nothing to the interests of .the shareholders, and

UNITED STATES v. PECELLIS.
156.

Argument for Appellee.

the only change was in the evidence which represents the
interests of the shareholders in exactly the same assets
and business.
The old company had at one time a large amount in
Anglo-French bonds, which were afterward paid out to
the stockholders by a dividend in kind, and upon which
income tax was duly paid. If these were among the assets
transferred to the new company, the position of the Government in this case would be that appellee must pay a
tax on the common stock of the new company received by
him at its market value, which market value was partly
based upon the bonds; and that thereafter, when the
bonds were segregated from the assets of the business and
distributed to the stockholders, again the appellee must
pay a tax upon the market value of these bonds. The
effect would be to first tax the stockholders upon the assets
represented by the stock certificates of the new company
as a whole, and then to tax them upon these assets when
distributed. This could not have been intended by the
Income Tax Act.
As an illustration: An investor bought on September
25, 1915, one share in the-New Jersey company for $795,
its then alleged market value. This stockholder's income
from other sources was such that if the present law had
then been in 6ffect he would have been required to pay
50 per cent. of the income received as a tax. On October
1, 1915, there were issued to him two shares of the Delaware company worth at the time $347.50 per share, and
he still held his one share in the New Jersey company of
the par and market value of $100; the result of which
was that he had three certificates representing his investment worth exactly the same amount as he had paid for
the one certificate in the New Jersey company. The Government's contention now is that both shares of the Delaware company are income, and that one share must be
sold and the $347.50 realized thereon must be paid to the

164

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellee.

257 U. S.

Government as income tax, and then the stockholder
would have left one share of the New Jersey company
worth $100 and one of the Delaware company worth
$347.50, a total of $447.50, in place of the $795 which he
had paid for the share of the New Jersey company. Yet
the Government urges that this stockholder has received
in the calendar year by this transaction a gain or profit on
his investment.
Another illustration: The estate of A, deceased, was in
the hands of trustees, to pay the income to a life tenant
and at his death to divide the capital among remaindermen. On October 1st the trustees received two shares of
the Delaware stock for each share held by them of the
common stock of the New Jersey company.
If the Government's contention be correct, the corpus of
the estate (shares of the New Jersey common stock,) was
worth on September 30th, $795 for each share. On October 1st, the entire corpus was the New Jersey stock, worth
$100 per. share, and the life tenant was entitled to all of
the shares issued to the trustees by the Delaware company, worth $347.50 per share. In other words, by the
reorganization, the corpus of the estate lost over night sixsevenths of its value.
Can there be any doubt that the Delaware stock was
capital as well for purposes of the income tax law as for
distribution between life tenant and remainderman?
Towne v. Eisner,245 U. S. 418, 426.
The fact that the value of the shares held by appellee
was exactly the same after October 1st as the shares held
by him prior to that date in the New Jersey company,
was merely one of the facts relied upon by the court below in concluding that appellee had received no taxable
income, gain or profit. The court was fully justified in
taking this into consideration, in view of the decision in
the Towne Case, supra.
The effect of this transaction, so far as the stockholder
and the business were concerned, is the same as if a stock

UNITED STATES v. PHELLIS.
156.

Opinion of the Court.

dividend had been made by the New Jersey company.
Eisnerv. Macomber, 252 U. S. 189, 213.
The fact that the two companies were distinct legal entities is not controlling. It is evident that the entire business of the company was to be carried on as one enterprise, just as it had been before, with the intervention of a
technical legal entity incorporated under the laws of
Delaware. Exactly the same situation existed in Southern Pacific Co. v. Lowe, 247 U. S. 330, 337. The new company was simply an agency created by the old to carry on
the business theretofore carried on by the latter. In mere
form only this transaction bore the appearance of income
to appellee, while in truth and in substance appellee had
no greater interest than he had before the reorganization.
See Gulf Oil Corporationv. Lewellyn, 248 U. S. 71, 72.
The facts in the Peabody Case, supra, were so different
that the reasoning there does not control.
The whole reasoning of the court in Towne v. Eisner,
245 U. S. 418, (which was affirmed in Eisner v. Macomber,
supra,) is applicable to the facts of this case.
MR. JusTicE PITrrNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

The court below sustained the claim of C. W. Phellis
for a refund of certain moneys paid by him under protest
in discharge of an additional tax assessed against him for
the year 1915, based upon alleged income equivalent to
the market value of 500 shares of stock of a Delaware corporation called the E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company,
received by him as a dividend upon his 250 shares of
stock of the E. I. du Pont de Nemours Powder Company,
a New Jersey corporation. The United States appeals.
From the findings of the Court of Claims, read in connection with claimant's petition, the following essential
facts appear. In and prior to September, 1915, the New
Jersey company had been engaged for many years in the
business of manufacturing and selling explosives. Its

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

funded debt and its capital stock at par values were as
follows:
5% mortgage bonds ............. $1, 230, 000
4 % 30-year bonds ............. 14,166,000
16, 068, 600
Preferred stock ($100 shares) ....
29,427, 100
Common stock ($100 shares) .....
$60, 891, 700
Total .................
It had an excess of assets over liabilities showing a
large surplus of accumulated profits; the precise amount
is not important, except that it should be stated that it
was sufficient to cover the dividend distribution presently
to be mentioned. In that month a reorganization and
financial adjustment of the business was resolved upon
and carried into effect with the assent of a sufficient proportion of the stockholders, in which a new corporation
was formed under the laws of Delaware with an authorized capital stock of $240,000,000 to consist in part of
debenture stock bearing 6 per cent. cumulative dividends,
in part of common stock; and to this new corporation all
the assets and good-will of the New Jersey company were
transferred as an entirety and as a going concern, as of
October 1, 1915, at a valuation of $120,000,000, the new
company assuming all the obligations of the old except
its capital stock and funded debt. In payment of the
consideration, the old company retained $1,484,100 in
cash to be used in redemption of its outstanding 5%
mortgage bonds, and received $59,661,700 par value in
debenture stock of the new company (of which $30,234,600 was to be used in taking up, share for share and dollar
for do~lar, the preferred stock of the old company and
redeeming its 30-year bonds), and $58,854,200 par value
of the common stock of the new company which was to be
and was immediately distributed among the common
stockholders of the old company as a dividend, paying
them two shares of the new stock for each share they held

UNITED STATES v. PHELLIS.
156.

Opinion of the Court.

in the old company. This plan was carried out by appropriate corporate action; the new company took over all
the assets of the old company, and that company besides
paying off its 5% bonds acquired debenture stock of the
new company sufficient to liquidate its 4 % 30-year
bonds and retire its preferred stock, additional debenture
stock equal in amount at par to its own outstanding common stock, and also two shares of common stock of the
Delaware corporation for each share of the outstanding
common stock of the New Jersey corporation. Each
holder of the New Jersey company's common stock (including claimant), retained his old stock and besides received a dividend of two shares for one in common stock
of the Delaware company, and the New Jersey corporation retained in its treasury 6 per cent. debenture stock
of the Delaware corporation equivalent to the par value
of its own outstanding common stock. The personnel of
the stockholders and officers of the two corporations was
on October 1, 1915, identical, the new company having
elected the same officers as the old; and the holders of
common stock in both corporations had the same proportionate stockholding in each. After the reorganization
and the distribution of the stock of the Delaware corporation, the New Jersey corporation continued as a going
concern, and still exists but, except for the redemption of
its outstanding bonds, the exchange of debenture stock for
its preferred stock, and the holding of debenture stock to
an amount equivalent to its own outstanding common and
the collection and disposition of dividends thereon, it has
done no business. It is not, however, in process of liquidation. It has received as income upon the Delaware
company's debenture stock held by it, dividends to the
amount of 6% per annum, which it has paid out to its
own stockholders including the claimant. The fair market value of the stock of the New Jersey corporation on
September 30, 1915, prior to the reorganization, was $795

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

per share, and its fair market value, after the execution
of the contracts between the two corporations, was on
October 1, 1915, $100 per share. The fair market value
of the stock of the Delaware corporation distributed as
aforesaid was on October 1, 1915, $347.50 per share. The
Commissioner of Internal Revenue held that the 500
shares of Delaware company stock acquired by claimant
in the distribution was income of the value of $347.50 per
share and assessed the additional tax accordingly.
The Court of Claims, observing that from the facts as
found claimant's 250 shares of stock in the New Jersey
corporation were worth on the market, prior to the transfer and dividend, precisely the same that the same shares
plus the Delaware company's shares received by him
were worth thereafter, and that he did not gain any increase in the value of his aggregate holdings by the operation, held that the whole transaction was to be regarded
as merely a financial reorganization of the business of
the company, producing to him no profit and hence no
income, and that the distribution was in effect a stock
dividend nontaxable as income under the authority of
Eisner V. Macomber, 252 U. S. 189, and not within the
rule of Peabody v. Eisner, 247 U. S. 347.
We recognize the importance of regarding matters of
substance and disregarding forms in applying the provisions of the Sixteenth Amendment and income tax laws
enacted thereunder. In a number of cases besides those
just cited we have under varying conditions followed the
rule. Lynch v. Turrish, 247 U. S.221; Southern Pacific
Co. v. Lowe, 247 U. S. 330; Gulf Oil Corporation v.
Leweilyn, 248 U. S.71.
The act under which the tax now in question was imposed, (Act of October 3, 1913, c. 16, 38 Stat. 114, 166167), declares that income shall include, among other
things, gains derived "from interest, rent, dividends, securities, or the transaction of any lawful business carried

UNITED STATES v. PHELLIS.
156.

Opinion of the Court.

on for gain or profit, or gains or profits and income derived from any source whatever." Disregarding the slight
looseness of construction, we interpret "gains, profits,
dividends," etc., as
and income derived from . .
meaning not that everything in the form of a dividend
must be treated as income, but that income derived in
the way of dividends shall be taxed. Hence the inquiry
must be whether the shares of stock in the new company
received by claimant as a dividend by reason of his ownership of stock in the old company constituted (to apply
the tests laid down in Eisner v. Macomber, 252 U. S. 189,
207), a gain derived from capital, not a gain accruing to
capital, nor a growth or increment of value in the investment, but a gain, a profit, something of exchangeable
value proceeding from the property, severed from the
capital however invested, and coming in, that is, received
or drawn by the claimant for his separate use, benefit and
disposal.
Claimant's capital investment was represented by his
New Jersey shares. Whatever increment of value had
accrued to them prior to September 30, 1915, by reason
of the surplus profits that theretofore had been accumulated by the company, was still a part of claimant's capital, from which as yet he had derived no actual and therefore no taxable income so far as the surplus remained
undistributed. As yet he had no right to withdraw it or
any part of it, could not have such right until action by
the company or its proper representatives, and his interest
still was but the general property interest of a stockholder
in the entire assets, business and affairs of the companya capital interest; as we declared in Eisner v. Macomber,
supra (p. 208).
Upon the face of things, however, the transfer of the
old company's assets to the new company in exchange for
the securities issued by the latter, and the distribution of
those securities by the old company among its stock-

170

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

holders, changed the former situation materially. The
common stock of the new company, after its transfer to
the old company and prior to its distribution, constituted
assets of the old company which it now held to represent
its surplus of accumulated profits--still however a common fund in which the individual stockholders of the old
company had no separate interest. But when this common stock was distributed among the common stockholders of the old company as a dividend, then at onceunless the two companies must be regarded as substantially identical-the individual stockholders of the old company; including claimant, received assets of exchangeable
and actual value severed from their capital interest in the
old company, proceeding from it as the result of a division
of former corporate profits, and drawn by them severally
for their individual and separate use and benefit. Such a
gain resulting from their ownership of stock in the old
company and proceeding from it constituted individual
income in the proper sense.
That a comparison of the market value of claimant's
shares in the New Jersey corporation immediately before,
with the aggregate market value of those shares plus the
dividend shares immediately after the dividend showed
no change in the aggregate-a fact relied upon by the
Court of Claims as demonstrating that claimant neither
gained nor lost pecuniarily in the transaction-seems to
us a circumstance of no particular importance in the
present inquiry. Assuming the market values were a precise reflex of intrinsic values, they would show merely
that claimant acquired no increase in aggregate wealth
through the mere effect of the reorganization and consequent dividend, not that the dividend did not constitute
income. There would remain the presumption that the
value of the New Jersey shares immediately prior to the
transaction reflected the original capital investment plus
the accretions which had resulted through the company's

UNITED STATES v. PHELLIS.
156.

Opinion of the Court.

business activities and constituted its surplus; a surplus
in which, until dividend made, the individual stockholder
had no property interest except as it increased the valuation of his capital. It is the appropriate function of a
dividend, to convert a part of a surplus thus accumulated
from property of the company into property of the individual stockholders; the stockholder's share being thereby
released to and drawn by him as profits or income derived
from the company. That the distribution reduces the intrinsic capital value of the shares by an equal amount is a
normal and necessary effect of all dividend distributionswhether large or small and whether paid in money or in
other divisible assets--but such reduction constitutes the
dividend none the less income derived by the stockholder
if it represents gains previously acquired by the corporation. Hence, a comparison of aggregate values immediately before with those immediately after the dividend
is not a proper test for determining whether individual
income, taxable against the stockholder, has been received
by means of the dividend.
The possibility of occasional instances of apparent hardship in the incidence of the tax may be conceded. Where,
as in this case, the dividend constitutes a distribution of
profits accumulated during an extended period and bears
a large proportion to the par value of the stock, if an
investor happened to buy stock shortly before the dividend, paying a price enhanced by an estimate of the
capital plus the surplus of the company, and after distribution of the surplus, with corresponding reduction in
the intrinsic and market value of the shares, he were called
upon to pay a tax upon the dividend received, it might
look in his case like a tax upon his capital. But it is only
apparently so. In buying at a price that reflected the accumulated profits, he of course acquired as a part of the
valuable rights purchased the prospect of a dividend from
the accumulations--bought "dividend on," as the phrase

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

goes--and necessarily took subject to the burden of the
income tax proper to be assessed against him by reason
of the dividend if and when made. He simply stepped
into the shoes, in this as in other respects, of the stockholder whose shares he acquired, and presumably the
prospect of a dividend influenced the price paid, and was
discounted by the prospect of an income tax to be paid
thereon. In short, the question whether a dividend made
out of company profits constitutes income of the stockholder is not affected by antecedent transfers of the stock
from hand to hand.
There is more force in the suggestion that, looking
throdgh and through the entire transaction out of which
the distribution came, it was but a financial reorganization of the business as it stood before, without diminution
of the aggregate assets or change in the general corporate
objects and purposes, without change of personnel either
in officers or stockholders, or change in the proportionate
interest of any individual stockholder. The argument, in
effect, is that there was no loss of essential identity on the
part of the company, only a change of the legal habiliments in which the aggregate corporate interests were
clothed, no substantial realization by individual stockholders out of the previous accumulation of corporate
profits, merely a distribution of additional certificates indicating an increase in the value of their capital holdings.
This brings into view the general effect of the combined
action of the entire body of stockholders as a mass.
In such matters, what was done, rather than the design
and purpose of the participants, should be the test. However, in this case there is no difference. The proposed plan
was set out in a written communication from the president of the New Jersey corporation to the stockholders, a
written assent signed by about 90 per cent. of the stockholders, a written agreement made between the old company and the new, and a bill of sale made by the former

UNITED STATES v. PHELLIS.
156.

Opinion of the Court.

to the latter, all of which are in the findings. The plan as
thus proposed and adopted, and as carried out, involved
the formation of a new corporation to take over the business and the business assets of the old; it was to be and
was formed under the laws of a different State, which
necessarily imports a different measure of responsibility
to the public, and presumably different rights between
stockholders and company and between stockholders inter
sese, than before. The articles of association of neither
company are made to appear, but in favor of the asserted
identity between the companies we will assume (contrary
to the probabilities) that there was no significant difference here. But the new company was to have authorized
capital stock aggregating $240,000,000-nearly four times
the aggregate stock issues and funded debt of the old
company-of which less than one-half ($118,515,900)
was to be issued presently to the old company or its
stockholders, leaving the future disposition of a majority
of the authorized new issues still to be determined. There
was no present change of officers or stockholders, but
manifestly a continuation of identity in this respect depended upon continued unanimous consent or concurrent
action of a multitude of individual stockholders actuated
by motives and influences necessarily to some extent
divergent. In the light of all this we cannot regard the
new company as virtually identical with the old, but must
treat it as a substantial corporate body with its own separate identity, and its stockholders as having property
rights and interests materially different from those incident to ownership of stock in the old company.
The findings show that it was intended to be established as such, and that it was so created in fact and in
law. There is nothing to warrant us in treating this separateness as imaginary, unless the identity of the body of
stockholders and the transfer in solido of the manufacturing business and assets from the old company to the

174

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

new necessarily have that effect. But the identity of
stockholders was but a temporary condition, subject to
change at any moment at the option of any individual.
As to the assets, the very fact of their transfer from one
company to the other evidenced the actual separateness
of the two companies.
But further, it would be erroneous, we think, to test the
question whether an individual stockholder derived income in the true and substantial sense through receiving
a part in the distribution of the new shares, by regarding
alone the general effect of the reorganization upon the
aggregate body of stockholders. The liability of a stockholder to pay an individual income tax must be tested by
the effect of the transaction upon the individual. It was
a part of the purpose and a necessary result of the plan of
reorganization, as carried out, that common stock of the
new company to the extent of $58,854,200 should be
turned over to the old company, treated by it as assets
to be distributed as against its liability to stockholders for
accrued surplus, and thereupon distributed to them "as
a dividend." The assent of the stockholders was based
upon this as a part of the plan.
In thus creating the common stock of the new company
and transferring it to the old company for distribution pro
rataamong its stockholders, the parties were acting in the
exercise of their rights for the very purpose of placing the
common stockholders individually in possession of new
and substantial property rights in esse, in realization of
their former contingent right to participate eventually
in the accumulated surplus. No question is made but
that the proceedings taken were legally adequate to accomplish the purpose. The new common stock became
treasury assets of the old company, and was capable of
distribution as the manufacturing assets whose place it
took were not. Its distribution transferred to the several
stockholders new individual property rights which they

UNITED STATES v. PHELLIS.
MCRBYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

156.

severally were entitled to retain and enjoy, or to sell and
transfer, with precisely the same substantial benefit to
each as if the old company had acquired the stock by
purchase from strangers. According to the findings the
stock thus distributed was marketable. There was neither
express nor implied condition, arising out of the plan of
reorganization or otherwise, to prevent any stockholder
from selling it; and he could sell his entire portion or any
of it without parting with his capital interest in the parent
company, or affecting his proportionate relation to the
interests of other stockholders. Whether he sold the new
stock for money or retained it in preference, in either case
when he received it he received as his separate property a
part of the accumulated profits of the old company in
which previously he had only a potential and contingent
interest.
It thus appears that in substance and fact, as well as in
appearance, the dividend received by claimant was a gain,
a profit, derived from his capital interest in the old company, not in liquidation of the capital but in distribution
of accumulated profits of the company; something of exchangeable value produced by and proceeding from his
investment therein, severed from it and drawn by him for
his separate use. Hence it constituted individual income
within the meaning of the income tax law, as clearly as
was the case in Peabody v. Eisner, 247 U. S. 347.
Judgment of the Court of Claims reversed,and the
cause remanded with directions to dismiss the suit.
MR.

JUSTICE

MCREYNoLDs, dissenting.

In the course of its opinion, citing Eisner v. Macomber,
252 U. S. 189, 213, the Court of Claims declared:
"We think the whole transaction is to be regarded as
merely a financial reorganization of the business of the
company and that this view is justified by the power and
duty of the court to look through the form of the trans-

176

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

action to its substance." And further, "It seems incredible that Congress intended to tax as income a business transaction which admittedly produced no gain, no
profit, and hence no income. If any income had accrued
to the plaintiff by reason of the sale and exchange made it
would doubtless be taxable."
There were perfectly good reasons for the reorganization and the good faith of the parties is not questioned. I
assume that the statute was not intended to put an embargo upon legitimate reorganizations when ;deemed essential for carrying on important enterprises. Eisner v.
Macomber was rightly decided and the principle which I
think it announced seems in conflict with the decision just
announced.
MR.JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER concurs in this dissent.

ROCKEFELLER v. UNITED STATES.
NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY ET AL., EXECUTORS OF HARKNESS, v. EDWARDS, COLLECTOR
OF UNITED STATES INTERNAL REVENUE FOR
THE SECOND DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Nos. 535, 536. Argued October 11, 12, 1921.--Decided November
21, 1921.
1. Where the stockholders of a corporation, which is engaged in producing, buying and selling crude petroleum and in transporting
it through its pipe lines, form a new corporation to which the
pipe line property is conveyed by the old corporation and in
consideration therefor and as part of the transaction all the capital
stock of the new corporation, of par value equal to the valuation of
the property so conveyed, is distributed among such stockholders
pro rata,either by being issued to them directly, or by being first

