MISSOURI PAC. R. R. CO. v. CLARENDON CO. 533
529.

Statement of the Case.

limitations of the supreme fundamental law. It follows
that the cases of Doyle v. ContinentalInsurance Co., 94
U. S. 535, and Security Mutual Life Insurance Co. v.
Prewitt, 202 U. S. 246, must be considered as overruled
and that the views of the minority judges in those cases
have become the law of this court. The appellant in proposing to comply with the statute in question and revoke
the license was about to violate the constitutional right
of the appellee. In enjoining him the District Court was
right, and its decree is
Affirmed.
MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.
CLARENDON BOAT OAR COMPANY, INC.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS, SECOND CIRCUITr,

OF THE

STATE OF LOUISIANA.

No. 102. Argued January 20, 1922.-Decided February 27, 1922.
A state law for securing jurisdiction over foreign corporations in proceedings in the state courts, by requiring appointment of agents
upon whom process may be served, applicable alike t6 actions by
residents or nonresidents, clearly does not violate due process in not
applying to transitory actions arising outside the State; a contention to the contrary made by plaintiff foreign corporation is frivolous, and will not support a writ of error. P. 534.

Writ of error dismissed.
ERROR to review a judgment of the Court of Appeals of
Louisiana affirming a judgment of a District Court of the
State and dismissing for want of jurisdiction an action for
breach of contract brought by the railroa against the
Boat Oar Company.
Mr. Allan Sholar8, with whom Mr. Henry Bernstein and
Mr. F. G. Hudson, Jr., were on the brief, for plaintiff in
error.

No brief filed for defendant in error.

534

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

MR. CHIEF JusTICE TArr delivered the opinion of the
court.

This is a writ of error to the judgment of the highest
court of the State of Louisiana to which the case could be
taken. Theplaintiff, the Missouri Pacific Railroad Company, a Missouri corporation, sued the defendant company, the Clarendon Boat Oar Company, a New York
company, for damages in the District Court of Richland
Parish, for the breach of an affreightment contract entered
into in the State of Arkansas and to be performed in that
State. The defendant appeared solely to except to the
jurisdiction. The District Court sustained the exception,
and, on appeal to the Court of Appeals of the. Second
Circuit, this ruling was affirmed and the cause dismissed.
The Supreme Court of the State refused to entertain an
appeal.
Act No. 243 of 1912, p. 543, and Act No. 267 of 1914,
p. 532, of the Annual Laws of Louisiana, provide that
service on foreign corporations may be made on any agent
which the corporation has designated, and require that
every foreign corporation doing business in the State shall
file a written declaration with the Secretary of the State
showing its domicile and the place or places where it is
to do business and designating its agent, resident in the
parish where its business is to be done, and that service on
said agent, whether personal or domiciliary, shall be a
valid service on it. The Court of Appeals in this case
held, following what it deemed to be the holding by the
Louisiana Suprene Court in the case of Watkins v. North
American Land & Timber Co., 106 La. 621, that the Louisiana statute was not intended to give the state courts
jurisdiction over foreign corporations by service on agents
appointed thereunder, in transitory actions arising in an-

other State. The action of the Supreme Court in refusing
to entertain an appeal in this cause shows this to be the

MISSOURI PAC. R. 1R. CO. v. CLARENDON CO. 535
533.

Opinion of the Court.

authoritative construction of the statute by the state
courts.
This writ of error is based on the theory that the statute
of Louisiana, thus construed, denies the plaintiff in
error due process of law and the equal protection of the
laws in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Federal Constitution. In the Watkins Case, supra,the
Supreme Court of the State held that the provisions of the
foreign corporation law furnished equal opportunity to
residents and non-residents to sue foreign corporations.
The contention comes down to this, therefore, that it is a
lack of due process for a state statute of procedure to fail
to furnish a person, within the limits of the State, power
to sue a non-resident corporation and take judgment for
a cause of action arising in another State. Under ยง 2 of
Article IV of the Federal Constitution, the citizens of each
State are entitled to all privileges and immunities of
citizens in the several States. This secures citizens of one
State the right to resort to the courts of another, equally
with the citizens of the latter State; but where the citizens
of the latter State are not given a process for reaching
foreign corporations, it is not apparent how non-citizens
can claim it. Provisions for making foreign corporations
subject to service in the State is a matter of legislative
discretion, and a failure to provide for such service is not
a denial of due process. Still less is it incumbent upon a
State in furnishing such process to make the jurisdiction
over the foreign corporation wide enough to include the
adjudication of transitory actions not arising in the State.
Indeed, so clear is this that, in dealing with statutes.
providing for service upon foreign corporations doing
business in the State upon agents whose designation as
such is especially required, this court has indicated a
leaning toward a construction where possible, that would
exclude from their operation causes of action not arising
in the business done by them in the State. Mitchell Furni-

536

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

257 U. S.

ture Co. v. Selden Breck ConstructionCo., ante, 213; Old
Wayne Mutual Life Associationv. McDonough, 204 U. S.
8, 22; Simon v. Southern Ry. Co., 236 U. S. 115, 130. The
latter case was a Louisiana case under this same law. In
these circumstances and this state of the authorities in
this court, it is frivolous to claim that a statute of procedure, by its failure to give jurisdiction over foreign corporations in transitory actions arising in another State,
constitutes a lack of due process of which plaintiff in error
can complain. In such a case the writ must be dismissed.
Farrellv. O'Brien, 199 U. S. 89, 100; Empire State-Idaho
Mining Co. v. Hanley, 205 U. S. 225, 232; Goodrich v.
Ferris,214 U. S. 71, 79; Toop v. Ulysses Land Co., 237
U. S. 580,,583; Piedmont Power & Light Co. v. Town of
Graham,253 U. S. 193, 195.
The writ of erroris dismissed.

UNITED STATES v. M. RICE & COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF CUSTOMS
APPEALS.

No. 114. 'Argued January 26, 1922.-Decided February 27, 1922.
In an importer's protest, under par. N of the Tariff Act of 1913,
against a collector's decision on classification of goods, it is not
necessary to set up the similitude clause (par. 386), which merely
prescribes a rule of construction applicable to every paragraph of
the tariff imposing duty on specifically described articles. P. 538.
10 Cust. App. 165, affirmed.
CERTIORARI to review a judgment of the Court of Customs Appeals which, reversing a judgment order of the
Board of General Appraisers (unpublished abstract No.
43,391; 37 T. D. 355; Brown, G. A., dissenting), sustained
the respondents' claim.

