118

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

of general conditions and of the particular situation. It
finds that allowance of more than $3 a car for hauling the
car from the Union Sawmill plant to Dollar Junction
would result in unjust discrimination. That the finding
was supported by evidence we must assume in this proceeding. And not only does plaintiff fail to show that the
conclusion reached was arbitrary; but additional findings
in the report afford abundant reason why the out-of-line
haul to the scales should not be allowed for in fixing the
division. The Commission finds, 53 I. C. C. 475, 476,
that: "The evidence does not show that it is necessary
that the shipments be weighed by the tap line rather than
by the trunk line; " and, 40 I. C. C. 470, 471, that allowing the larger division on these facts would place the
plaintiff in a more advantageous position than any other
tap line in that territory performing a similar service and
would "open the way in the case of many tap lines for a
relocation of their track scales so as to require a long
back haul, and in that way to lay a basis for divisions or
allowances very materially in excess of those fixed by the
Commission for the distance covered by a direct movement from the mill to the junction." In other words,
divisions that would operate as rebates.
Affirmed.
BREIHOLZ ET AL. v. BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF
POCAHONTAS COUNTY, IOWA, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.

No. 23. Argued October 7, 1921.-Decided November 7, 1921.
1. A state law under which a diainage district has been established,
the ditches constructed and the cost assessed upon the landowners in proportion to benefits, all after due notice and opportunity to be heard, does not violate their right to due process,
under the Fourteenth Amendment, in empowering a supervising
board, without further notice, to determine the necessity and

BREIHOLZ v. BOARD OF SUPERVISORS.
118.

119

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

extent of cleaning and repairs, and to assess the cost upon the
lands in proportion to the original assessments. P. 123.
2. So heW of an Iowa law (Code Supp. 1913, ยง 1989-a21) which permits the board for the purpose of "repair" to enlarge, reopen,
deepen, widen, straighten or lengthen ditches, but where the work
done was within the scope of a cleaning, alteration and repair of
the ditch system, necessary to promote its usefulness, and no new
taking of property was involved. P. 124.
186 Ia. 1147, affirmed.

EROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Iowa
affirming a judgment of a lower court of the State adverse
to the present plaintiffs in error in a suit attacking special
drainage assessments.
Mr. Denis M. Kelleher, with whom Mr. Clarence M.
Hanson, Mr. Richard F. Mitchell and Mr. Thomas F.
Lynch were on the brief, for plaintiffs-in error.
Where a legislature attempts to confer upon a subordinate body authority to enlarge or repair a previously constructed ditch, either by widening its banks, deepening
its channel or lengthening it, and to assess the cost and
expense to adjacent property without notice to or opportunity to be heard by interested property owners, the
statute is unconstitutional as offending against the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. In re
Renville Coiznty, 109 Minn. 88; Harmon v. Bolley, 120
N. E. 33.
Here the old ditches were materially deepened, widened
and extended. The enlargement of a ditch already constructed would, for all practical purposes, constitute a new
ditch, depending perhaps upon the extent of the enlargement. There is a distinction between repairing a ditch,
by removing obstructions therefrom, and widening or
deepening or extending it. In re Renville County, supra;
and other cases.
The Supreme Court of Iowa has repeatedly held that
land within a drainage district can be assessed for im-

120

OOTOBER TERM, 192.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U.S.

provements made therein only for the actual (not theoretical) benefits accruing to the particular tracts of land
within the district, Jenisonv. Greene County, 145 Ia. 215;
In re Johnson DrainageDistrict, 141 Ia. 380; Theiten v.
Board, 179 Ia. 248; Rystad v. DrainageDistrict, 157 Ia.
85; and that, in passing on the equality of the assessment,
the depth of the improvement, as affording outlet to
lands, should be taken into consideration, and, where a
ditch has been cleaned out or deepened, consideration
should be given to ,the adequacy of the original ditch
prior to the cleaning out or the deepening, as furnishing
an outlet for lands in making assessments therefor.
The levying of a special assessment imposing a burden
upon lands without a compensating advantage is not due
process of law. Myles Salt Co. v. IberiaDrainageDistrict,
239 U. S. 478; Gast Realty Co. v. Schneider Granite Co.,
240 U. S. 55; FallbrookIrrigationDistrictv. Bradley, 164
U. S. 112; Norwood v. Baker, 172 U. S. 269.
Mr. F. C. Gilchrist and Mr. Robert Healy, with whom
Mr. FrederickF-Favile and Mr. Maurice J. Breen were
on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUsTicE CLA~x

delivered'the opinion of the court.

Conformably to the statutes of the State, Drainage District No. 29 was organized in Pocahontas County, Iowa,
in 1907, and a system of drainage, regularly planned,
adopted and constructed, was completed in 1909. An
assessment to pay for this improvement was imposed
upon the lands within the District in proportion to the
benefits which each tract would derive from it.
Two years later, in 1911, parts of the ditches having
become so filled up as to impair the usefulness of the
system, the County Board of Supervisors adopted a resolution declaring that it was expedient that the drainage

BREIIOLZ v. BOARD OF SUPERVISORS.
118.

121

Opinion of the Court.

improvement should be "re-opened, cleaned and otherwise repaired" for the better service of the land tributary
to it, and to that end a contract was let to "deepen, clean,
re-open and repair" the ditches in the parts and in a
manner specified. An assessment to pay for this re-opening, cleaning and repairing was made upon the lands in
the District in the same proportion to benefits as that
made to pay for the original construction, and the controversy in this case is as to the constitutionality of the
statute under which this assessment was levied upon the
lands of the plaintiffs, in error.
. The state statutes (Supplement to the Code of Iowa,
1913, Tit. X, c. 2-A) committed to the Board of Supervisors of the County, the power to establish drainage
districts, to adopt systems of drainage, to determine the
extent of any damage which might be caused to lands
thereby, and to make assessment on the lands in the
District, in proportion to benefits, to pay for the improvement.
Elaborate provision is made for notice to all owners of
land within a proposed drainage district, of the application for the establishment of it, of the time for hearing
claims for damages likely to be caused by the construction
of the drainage system, and of the time when objections
may be made to the assessment in proportion to benefits.
From the determination of the Board with respect to each
of these a right of appeal to the state District Court is
given.
It is admitted that all of the requisite action was taken
to establish the system of drainage involved and for making the assessment upon the benefited lands, including
those of the plaintiffs in error, to pay for the original
work done, and that sufficient notice thereof to satisfy
all constitutional requirements was given to all concerned.
The action in this case was taken under ยง 1989-a21 of
the Iowa Code (Supplement, 1913) which provides that

122

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

after any drainage district shall have been established
and the improvement constructed (as in this case):
the same shall at all times be under the control and supervision of the board of supervisors and it
shall be the duty of the board to keep the same in repair
and for that purpose they may cause the same to be enlarged, reopened, deepened, widened, straightened or
lengthened for a better outlet.

.

.

. The cost of such

repairs or change shall be paid by the board from the
,drainage fund of said

. . . drainage district, or by

assessing and levying the cost of 4uch change or repair
upon the lands in the same proportion that the original
expenses and cost of construction were levied and assessed,
except where additional right of way is required or additional lands affected thereby, in eithet of which cases the
board shall proceed," giving notice and hearing as is otherwise provided.
It will be noted that the section thus quoted does not
require that notice shall be given to landowners of such
intended enlarging, re-opening, etc., of the drainage system as is provided for therein, and that no provision is
made for a hearing with respect thereto, at which objections may be made either to the doing of the work or to
the assessment to pay for it, and the contention of the
plaintiffs in error is that the failure to provide for such
notice and hearing renders the section unconstitutional
for the reason that if enforced it would deprive them of
their property without due process of law.
To this contention of invalidity it is replied that the
section assailed is a legislative determination of the
amount which should be assessed upon the lands of plaintiffs in error to pay for the preservation and repair of the
drainage system, and that, therefore, due process of law
did not require a new notice and opportunity to be heard
before the work was determined upon or the assessment

BREIHOLZ v. BOARD OF SUPERVISORS.
118.

123

Opinion of the Court.

made,--this under authority of decisions of this court,
extending from Spencer v. Merchant, 125 U. S. 345, to
Branson v. Bush, 251 U. S. 182, 189.
The Supreme Court of Iowa held the statute and assessment both valid, and a writ of error brings the case here
for review.
The contention that a new notice and hearing was not
required in this case by the due process provision of the
Fourteenth Amendment is a sound one. We are dealing
with the taxing power of the State of Iowa, exerted
through the familiar agency of a regularly organized
drainage district, which it is admitted, properly included,
and by the system of drainage adopted benefited, the
lands of the plaintiffs in error. It is admitted also that
their lands were lawfully assessed to pay for the original
drainage construction in the same proportion to benefits
as that which was applied in this case to the cost of the
improvements and repairs. Thus Myles Salt Co. v. Iberia
DrainageDistrict, 239 U. S. 478, and Gast Realty & Investment Co. v. Schneider Granite Co., 240 U. S. 55,
which are much relied upon, are plainly inapplicable.
The provision of the section assailed, that the cost of
repairs shall be assessed upon the lands of the District in
the same proportion that the original cost was assessed,
since it only requires a simple calculation to determine
the amount of each assessment when the cost of the improvement is once determined, is a legislative declaration
that the lands will be benefited, and that in such case
notice and hearing before such a legislative determination
is not necessary, is settled by many decisions of this court,
among others, Hagarv. Reclamation DistrictNo. 108, 111
U. S. 701, 708; Spencer v. Merchant, 125 U. S. 345;
Embree v. Kansas City Road District,240 U. S. 242, 250;
Wagner v. Baltimore, 239 U. S. 207, 217, 218; Houck v.
Little River Drainage District, 239 U. S. 254, 265, and
Branson v. Bush, 251 U. S. 182, 189.

124

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

The only possible source of objection remaining is the
committing to the Board of Supervisors the power to determine, without notice and hearing, when repairs are
necessary and the extent of them. But these are details
of state administration with which the federal authority
will not interfere, except, possibly, to prevent confiscation
or spoliation of which there is no suggestion in this case.
Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97, 106, and cases
cited 8upra.

The propriety- or resorting to such a practice-process
of law applicable to such a case-is commended to us by
the comment of the Supreme Court of Iowa, in deciding
this case, saying:
"The duty [to keep the drainage system open and in
repair] is one which is continuous, calling for supervision
from day to day and month to month, or, in the language
of the statute, 'at all times.' The work to be done may
involve considerable expense, or it may be a succession of
petty repairs, each of which is comparatively inexpensive.
To require that in each case the board must advertise the
job and seek the lowest bidder [and hold hearings with
respect to it] would be to hamper and prevent its efficient
action, without any corresponding benefit to the public."
It is not necessary that we should consider whether a
case can be imagined in which the ditches of a district
might be enlarged, deepened, widened and lengthened to
an extent such as to constitute a new construction and a
new taking of property, which would require a further
notice and hearing before a new assessment for it could
be constitutionally imposed, for we have no such case
here. There was some widening of the ditches for the
purpose of securing a better angle of repose for the sides
and some slight widening and deepening of the bottom at
various points for the purpose of getting a better fall and
outlet for the water, but we quite agree with the two
state courts that the changes made were of a character

HUNT v. UNITED STATES.
118.

125

Syllabus.

and extent fairly within the scope of a cleaning, alteration
and repair of the ditch system and necessary to promote
its usefulness.
While the principles of law applicable to this proceeding are well settled, we have preferred to again refer thus
briefly to the controlling cases rather than to dismiss the
petition in error.
It results that the motion to dismiss will be overruled
and the judgment of the Supreme Court of Iowa
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCRYNqOLDS concurs in result.

HUNT, EXECUTOR OF WEIGHEL, v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM T1E COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 38. Argued October 17, 1921.-Decided November 7, 1921.
1. United States v. Utah, Nevada & CaliforniaStage Co., 199 U. S.
414, followed to the effect that a general stipulation in a mailcarriage contract obliging the contractor to perform new, additional
or changed service without additional compensation, when ordered
by the Postmaster General, does not authorize the exaction without
pay of a heavy and expensive service not within the contemplation
of the parties. P. 127.
2. Where a contract for mail-carriage was sublet, without filing a
,copy of the sub-contract under c. 116, 22 Stat. 54, or obtaining the
written consent of the:Postmaster General, required by ยง 2, c. 107,
20 Stat. 62, and the Government, though accepting the service performed by the subcontractor, neither had nor recognized any contractual relation except with his principal, treating the former as
the agent of the latter, an action in the Court of Claims for extra
service exacted by the Government over his protest, but performed
by the subcontractor, was properly brought by and in the name of
the contractor. P. 128.
55 Ct. Chms. 77, reversed.

