WESTERN FUEL CO. v. GARCIA.
226.

Argument for Petitioner.

ments entered here in his favor but without any allowance for costs either in this court or in the courts below.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE C RxE concurs in the result.
WESTERN FUEL COMPANY v. GARCIA, ADMINISTRATOR OF SOUZA.
CERTIFICATE FROM AND CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 28. Argued March 18, 1921; restored to docket for reargument
and writ of certiorari ordered to issue to bring up entire record and
cause, March 21, 1921; reargued October 7, 10, 1921.-Decided
December 5, 1921.
1. No suit to recover damages for the death of a human being
caused by negligence may be maintained in the admiralty courts of
the United States under the general maritime law. P. 240.
2. But where death upon navigable waters follows from a maritime
tort committed on navigable waters within a State whose statutes
give a right of action on account of death by wrongful act, the
admiralty courts will entertain a libel in personam,for the damages
sustained by those to whom such right is given. P. 242.
3. The state statutes of limitation are applicable to such proceedings
in the federal courts. So held, in a case where the injury and death
occurred within the State where the libel was brought and whose
statutes, creating the cause of action and providing a limitation,
were applied. P. 242.
Judgment of District Court reversed.

to review a case pending in the Circuit
Court of Appeals on appeal from the District Court in
admiralty.
CERTIORARI

Mr. Joseph F. Murray, with whom Mr. Robert M. McCormick was on the briefs, for petitioner.
This action is barred by the California statute of limitations. The Harrisburg,119 U. S. 199. In that case the

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Petitioner.

257 U. S.

liability and the remedy in Pennsylvania were created by
the Act of 1851 and the limitation was created by the Act
of 1855. The liability and the remedy in this case are
found in the same statutes, § 377, Code of Civil Procedure,
and § 1970, Civil Code, and the limitation here is found
in § 340, Code of Civil Procedure. Therefore, it would
seem to follow that the limitation in this case is not only
of the remedy but of the right. Davis v. Mills, 194 U. S.
451.
The respondent is not relieved of the bar of the statute
of limitations by § 355, Code of Civil Procedure, Fay v.
Costa, 2 Cal. App. 241, as there was no appeal, but the
award in favor of Mrs. Souza was annulled by writ of review, the only remedy available to the Western Fuel Company in the state courts. There is an entire failure to
excuse the commencement of the action by the proper
party, viz, the administrator. In Union Fish Co. v. Erickson, 248 U. S. 308, the right of action did not depend upon
any state law; there was a maritime contract, and a right
of action given by admiralty itself.
State statutes fixing the liabilities of parties in tort actions will not be applied in admiralty. Const., Art.
III, § 2. Congress purposely excluded trials in admiralty
from the operation of § 34 Qf the Judiciary Act of 1789
(Rev. Stats., § 721) so that the rights of litigants in courts
of admiralty should be uniform and equal and not subject
to the varying whims and ideas of the legislators of the
different States; so that a claimant's right to relief might
not be limited by restrictive laws of any state legislature
and so that the respondent might not be deprived of hi
recognized defenses.
In the same Judiciary Act, in what are now §§ 913 and
914 of the Revised Statutes, Congress expressly provided
that. not even the practice, forms or proceedings in admiralty should be the same as those in state courts. By
these several statutes Congress showed unmistakably that

WESTERN FUEL CO. v. GARCIA.
233.

Argument for Petitioner.

courts of admiralty were to be independent of all state
laws and decisions. Cf. American Steamboat Co v.
Chase, 16 Wall. 522, 534; Bucher v. Cheshire R. R. Co.,
125 U. S. 555; Detroit v. Osborne, 135 U. S. 499; McClaine v. Rankin, 197 U. S. 154. We have been unable
to find any case where § 721 has been construed or any
effect given it in an action in admiralty. Distinguishing:
Trauffler v. Detroit & Cleveland Navigation Co., 181 Fed.
256, 261; Cornell Steamboat Co. v. Fallon, 179 Fed. 293;
Quinette v. Bisso, 136 Fed. 825; The Alaska, 130 U. S.
201; and The Corsair,145 U. S. 335.
The statutes of California under consideration here take
away from an employer the defenses of assumption of
risk, negligence of a fellow servant and contributory negligence. These statutes are not mere rules of evidence.
They affect the rights and liabilities of the parties. New
Orleans& NortheasternR. R. Co. v. Harris,247 U. S. 367;
Yazoo & Mississippi Valley R. R. Co. v. Mullins, 249
U. S. 531. If a state legislature, in actions by employees
against employers brought in a court of admiralty, may
take away the employer's defenses, then it can go one
step further and make the employer responsible for all
injuries regardless of negligence. This would be going
far beyond what was contended for in SouthernPacific Co.
v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205. If the New Jersey compensation
law is not applicable to maritime torts, and there is no
question but that it is not applicable (Coon v. Kennedy,
248 U..S. 457; 91 N. J. L. 598), how can it seriously be
contended that the California Act, which is in effect a
compensation law, is enforceable in a court of admiralty?
This court has held in numerous cases in which actions
were brought under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act that state statutes would have no application, although the suits were brought in state courts, because
Congress had legislated. On the other hand, over maritime matters the States had never exercised any jurisdic-

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Petitioner.

257 U. S.

tion, because jurisdiction had been from the beginning
reserved to Congress. The distinction was recognized in
Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S. 149. And
even though Congress, in enacting § 34 of the Judiciary
Act, had not shown conclusively that state statutes could
not affect proceedings in admiralty, still its failure to
legislate could not be construed as permission for the
States to make their legislation binding in admiralty.
Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205; Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S. 149; Chelentis v.
Luckenbach S. S. Ca., 247 U. S. 372; Schuede v. Zenith
S. S. Co., 244 U. S. 646; Workman v. New York City, 179
U. S. 552.
It has always been recognized that material differences
in the liabilities of the parties may depend upon the
forum, and that, whereas such liabilities at common
law might change with the several States, they would
remain the same in admiralty. Steamboat New York v.
Rea, 18 How. 223; Atlee v. Packet Co., 21 Wall. 389;
The Eagle v. Fraser,8 Wall. 15; Smith v. Conary, 1 How.
28; Watts v. Camors, 115 U. S. 353. Even the dissenting
members of this court in the recent cases recognized the
rule.
A court of admiralty will recognize state statutes permitting a recovery for death, but will enforce them in
accordance with the well-recognized principles of maritime law. Under the Judiciary Act a person injured by
reason of a maritime tort has the election of proceeding
in admiralty or proceeding at common law. If he proceeds in a court of common law he acquires the benefits
and assumes the obligations of the common law. If he
proceeds in admiralty, he acquires the benefits and assumes the obligations of admiralty. It was open to the
plaintiff in this case to proceed in the state courts of
California and there avail himself of the California
statutes, but he chose the court of admiralty.

WESTERN FUEL CO. v. GARCIA.
233.

Argument for Respondent.

The argument that because in this case admiralty is
enforcing a right given by a state statute the liabilities of
the parties are fixed by the state statutes, is satisfactorily
answered in The J. E. Rumbe l, 148 U. S. 1. Since Souza
met his death by reason of the negligence of a fellow servant, no recovery can be had.
Mr. Henry Heidelberg,with whom Mr. ChristopherM.
Bradley was on the briefs, for respondent.
A suit by libel for damages for wrongful death can be
maintained only because of the existence of a state
statute and the recovery should be in accordance with
the substantive law laid down in that statute.
Section 1970 of the Civil Code, and its modifications of
the fellow-servant law, violates no "characteristic" features of admiralty law, for the reason that it is in relation
to recovery for wrongful death, and there was no common
law or admiralty law upon that subject.
The rule of laches should be applied as the law of limitations of actions in this case, for the reason that admiralty has as one of its " characteristics" the law of
laches, which is the law of that forum.
The right given under § 1970 has no limitations attached to it as to the length of time in which suit must be
brought. The limitation of actions for the State is found
in a distinct enactment, § 337, Code of Civil Procedure,
which provides for a limitation of one year.
The question thus involved has been passed upon in
Gregory v. Southern Pacific Co., 157 Fed. 113, in which a
suit for wrongful death, based upon an injury happening
in California and upon the sections of the California law
authorizing such recovery, was maintained in Oregon
within two years, notwithstaiiding the fact that the law of
limitation of action for recovery in that case in California
was one year. And see Theroux v. NorthernPacific R. R.
Co., 64 Fed. 84. It will be contended by our opponents

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

that the California statute of limitations should apply,
and cases may be cited in which such statutes of limitation have been applied, but in those cases the law placed
a limitation upon the right of recovery by making the
statute read "provided" suit is brought within a certain
length of time, and the limitation of time for suit will be
found within the statute giving the right of suit.
No such limitation is contained in § 1970, Civil Code of
California, and time is not made the essence of the right
to sue. Courts of admiralty recognize the rule of laches
in suits of this kind. The Harrisburg,119 U. S. 199.
Ample excuse for delay was shown in this case.
Limitation of actions is a law of the forum and the law
of the forum governs when there is a conflict as to limitations of actions. O'Sullivan v. Felix, 233 U. S. 318; Gregory v. Southern Pacific Co., 157 Fed. 113.
A writ of review, such as was the procedure for reviewing the award of the California Industrial Accident Commission, is not an appeal and hence no subsequent action
could have been maintained in the state court pursuant to
§ 335, California Code Civil Procedure, Fay v. Costa, 2
Cal. App. 241.
Courts of admiralty are not bound by state statutes in
determining the question of laches; they govern themselves by the analogies only, in the absence of special or
exceptional circumstances.
MR. JusTIcE

MfEYwOLDS delivered the opinion of the

court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals certified certain questions
for instruction and thereafter we directed that the cause
be sent here for determination as if upon appeal. Judicial
Code, § 239.
Manuel Souza, a citizen and resident of California, was
instantly killed, August 5, 1916, while employed as a
stevedore by the petitioner and at work in the hold of the

WESTERN FUEL CO. v. GARCIA.
233.

. Opinion of the Court.

"Tancred," a Norwegian vessel under charter to it, then
anchored in San Francisco Bay and discharging her cargo.
The libel alleged that the injury was caused by coal negligently permitted to fall from a steel hoisting bucket.
Relying upon the California Workmen's Compensation
Act of 1913, the Industrial Accident Commission granted
an award in favor of the widow and children which the
Supreme Court of the State annulled August 6, 1917-a
year and a day subsequent to the death.
Shortly thereafter-August 21st-the widow and children began an admiralty suit in personam against the
petitioner in the United States District Court, Northern
District of California, wherein they alleged that the accident resulted from its negligence and prayed for damages.
Later, respondent, having been appointed administrator,
filed an amended libel with like allegations and prayer;
and upon this the cause was ultimately tried. Petitioner
denied liability and relied upon § 340, sub-section 3, California Code of Civil Procedure, which requires that an
action for damages consequent upon death caused by
wrongful act, or negligence shall be brought within one
year.'
I CALIFORNIA CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE.
TITLE II. TimE OF COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS.
Chapter I. TIME OF COMMENCING ACTIONS IN GENERAL.

Section 312. Commencement of civil actions. Civil actions, without exception, can only be commenced within the periods prescribed
in this title, after the cause of action shall have accrued, unless
where, in special cases, a different limitation is prescribed by statute.
Chapter III. TIME OF COMMENCING ACTIONS OTEER THAN FOR
RECOVERY OF REAL PROPERTY.

Section 335. Periods of limitation prescribed. The periods prescribed for the commencement of actions other than for the recovery
of real property, are as follows:
Section 340. Within one year.
. .
3. An action for libel, slander, assault, battery, false imprisonment,
seduction or for injury to or for the death of one caused by the
wrongful act or neglect of another or by a depositor against a bank
for the payment of a forged or raised check.

240

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court..

257 U. S.

The District Court held in favoi of the administrator
and awarded substantial damages; the Circuit Court of
Appeals has sent up the whole cause under our direction.
It is established doctrine that no suit to recover damages for the death of a human being caused by negligence,
may be maintained in the admiralty courts of the United
States under the general maritime law. At the common
law no civil action lies for an injury resulting from death.
The maritime law as generally accepted by maritime
nations leaves the matter untouched and in practice each
of them has applied the same rule for the sea which it
maintains on land. The Harrisburg,119 U. S. 204, 213;
The Alaska, 130 U. S. 201, 209; La Bourgogne, 210 U. S.
95, 138, 139.
How far this rule of non-liability adopted and enforced
by our admiralty courts in the absence of an applicable
statute may be modified, changed or supplemented by
state legislation has been the subject of consideration here
but no complete solution of the question has been announced.
In Cooley v. Board of Wardens, 12 How. 299, and Ex
ParteMcNiel, 13 Wall. 236, the power of a state to legislate concerning subjects maritime in their nature was
under discussion; and it was pointed out that as to certain
local matters a state statute may grant rights which will
be enforced in an admiralty court.
In American Steamboat Co. v. Chase, 16 Wall. 531, 532,
the decedent was killed on navigable waters within Rhode
Island. Relying upon the death statute of that State, his
administrator sued and recovered in one of its courts.
This court affirmed the judgment. Whether an admiralty
court could have entertained a proceeding based upon the
statute was mooted but not determined.
Sherlock v. Alling, 93 U. S. 99, arose out of a collision
between steamboats on the Ohio River within the limits

WESTERN FUEL CO. v. GARCIA.
233.

Opinion of the Court.

of Indiana, whose statute gave a right of action for death
caused by wrongful act, and a recovery in the state court
was affirmed here. The defense rested primarily upon
the erroneous theory that the statute encroached upon
the commercial powers of Congress. There was no discussion of the point now directly presented. In Butler v.
Boston & Savannah S. S. Co., 130 U. S. 557, 558, the point
was raised but left without expression of opinion.
The Hamilton,207 U. S. 398, 405, an admiralty proceeding for limitation of liability, affirmed the validity of
claims for damages resulting from death at sea based upon
the statute of Delaware where the vessel's owner had been
incorporated.
The inferior federal courts on the admiralty side have
enforced rights of action based upon death statutes holding they had jurisdiction as the claims grew out of
torts on navigable waters and were maritime in their
nature. The City of Norwalk, 55 Fed. 98, and the cases
cited. See also Hughes on Admiralty, 2nd ed., pp. 228,
230, et seq.
In Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205;
Chelentis v. Luckenbach S. S. Co., 247 U. S. 372; Union
Fish Co. v. Erickson, 248 U. S. 308, and Knickerbocker Ice
Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S. 149, we have recently discussed
the theory under which the general maritime law became
a part of our national law, and pointed out the inability
of the States to change its general features so as to defeat
uniformity-but the power of a State to make some modifications or supplements was affirmed. And we further
held that rights and liabilities in respect of torts upon the
sea ordinarily depend upon the rules accepted and applied
in admiralty courts which are controlling wherever suit
may be instituted. Under this view, American Steamboat
Co. v. Chase, and Sherlock v. Alling, support the right to
recover under a local statute in an admiralty court for

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

death occurring on navigable waters within the State
when caused by tort there committed.
As the logical result of prior decisions we think it follows that, where death upon such waters results from a
maritime tort committed on navigable waters within a
State whose statutes give a right of action on account of
death by wrongful act, the admiralty courts will entertain
a libel in personam for the damages sustained by those to
whom such right is given. The subject is maritime and
local in character and the specified modification of or
supplement to the rule applied in admiralty courts, when
following the common law, will not work material prejudice to the characteristic features of the general maritime
law, nor interfere with the proper harmony and uniformity of that law in its international and interstate relations.
Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, supra.
The California Code of Civil Procedure, § 340, prescribes one year as the period within which an action for
death caused by wrongful action or negligence shall be
brought. It is admitted that under the circumstances
here presented suit against petitioner, if instituted in a
court of that State, would have been barred, and we are
of opinion that the same limitation must be enforced in
respect of the admiralty proceeding. It was so decided in
The Harrisburg,119 U. S. 213, 214, a proceeding in rem
begun in the United States District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania. The steamer belonged to the Port
of Philadelphia, where she was duly enrolled, and the accident occurred upon navigable waters within Massachusetts. The Pennsylvania statute permitted suit for damages resulting from death and provided that "the action
shall be brought within one year after the death, and not
thereafter." The Massachusetts statute provided that, in
case of death resulting from the wrongful action of a corporation, the executor might recover by indictment a fine
not exceeding $5,000.00, and further, that ".ndictments

WESTERN FUEL CO. v. GARCIA.
233.

Opinion of the Court.

against a corporation for loss of life shall be prosecuted
within one year from the injury causing the death.
Through Mr. Chief Justice Waite, this court said:
"The statutes create a new legal liability, with the
right to a suit for its enforcement, provided the suit is
brought within twelve months, and not otherwise. The
time within which the suit must be brought operates as a
limitation of the liability itself as created, and not of the
remedy alone. It is a condition attached to the right to
sue at all. No one will pretend that the suit in Pennsylvania, or the indictment in Massachusetts, could be maintained if brought or found after the expiration of the year,
and it would seem to be clear that, if the admiralty adopts
the statute as a rule of right to be administered within its
own jurisdiction, it must take the right subject to the limitations which have been made a part of its existence. It
matters not that no rights of innocent parties have attached during the delay. Time has been made of the
essenbe of the right, and the right is lost if the time is disregarded. The liability and the remedy are created by
the same statutes, and the limitations of the remedy are,
therefore, to be treated as limitations of the right." See
also Davis v. Mill, 194 U. S.451, 453.
"An Act Relating to the maintenance of actions for
death on the high seas and other navigable waters," approved March 30, 1920, c. 111, 41 Stat. 537, gives a right
of action for damages resulting from death caused by
wrongful act, neglect or default occurring on the high seas
beyond one marine league from the shore. It expressly
directs, "That the provisions of any State statute giving
or regulating rights of action or remedies for death shall
not be affected by this Act. Nor shall this Act apply to
the Great Lakes or to any waters within the territorial
limits of any State, or to any navigable waters in the
Panama Canal Zone."
In the present cause the District Court rightly assumed
jurisdictior of the proceedings, but erred in holding the

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 , S.

right of action was not barred under the state statute of
limitation. Accordingly, its judgment must be reversed
and the cause remanded there with instructions to dismiss
the libel.

Rever&4
KAHN ET AL., EXECUTORS OF WOLFF, v,
UNITED STATES.
APPAL FROM THE COURT OF CWM.

No. 52. Argued November 15, 1921.--Decided December 5, 1921

Legacies of life interests in trust funds hdd vested in possession or
enjoyment prior to July 1, 1902, within the meaning of the Re.
funding Act of June 27, 1902, and taxable under § 29 of the
War Revenue Act of 1898, where, on or before July 1, 1902, the
amounts of the legacies were ascertainable, all claims against the
estate, save some for other taxes of relatively small amount, had
been settled or barred, and the trustees were entitled to inmed ate possession of the funds from the executors and the beneficiaries to the bendficial enjoyment of the income, P, 247,
55 Ct. Chms. 271, affirmed.

APP.AL from a judgment rejecting a claim for a refund
of legacy taxes.
Mr. H. T. Newcomb, with whom Mr. FrederickL. Fishback was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Ottinger, with whom
Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. Harvey B. Cox were
on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTIcE BRANDEis
court.

delivered the opinion of the

This suit was brought in the Court of Claims by the
executors of Abraham Wolff of New Jersey to have refunded $58,885.86 paid in taxes assessed upon legacies
under the provisions of § 29 of the Act of June 13, 1898,

