JOHNSON v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

'225 U. S.

JOHNSON v. UNITED STATES.
ON WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 1075.

Argued May 1, 2, 1912.-Decided June 7, 1912.

Whether the prisoner Was properly arraigned isnot a matter of form
but of substance, and should le shown by the record. Crain v.
United States, 162 U. S. 625.
There is no explicit provision in the laws of the United States describing
what shall constitute an arraignment; but so far as it is expressed
it has a definite meaning.
Where a word is used as comprehensively descriptive of certain acts,
it,
can be used in the record of a case as showing the performance of
those acts; and so held as to "arraignment" as used in § 1032, Rev.
Stat.
In this case what was done, as shown by the record, did constitute an,
*arraignment.
The record in a case imports verity and cannot be contradicted by
affidavits. Evans v. Stettnisch, 149 U. S.605.

As used to define the place where a crime may be committed the words,
"within any fort, arsenal, dockyard, magazine, or any other place
or district of country under the exclusive jurisdiction of the United
States" include the District of Columbia.
The act of January -15; 1897, 29 Sitat. 487, c. 29, permitting the jury
in a capital case of murder or rape under § 5339 or § 5345, Rev. Staf.,
to qualify.the verdict by adding "without capital punishment"
was applicable to the District of Columbia until superseded by the
special provisions on the same subject in.the District Code. Winston
v. United States, 172 U. S.303.
in framing a new statute a change of language from that of a former
statute on the same subject is some evidence of a change of legislative
purpose.
Some of the provisions of the Criminal:Code approved March 4, 1909,
35 Stat. 1088, c. 321, apply to the District of Columbia and other
provisions do not.
Congress in enacting the District Code recognized the expediency of
separate provisions for the Distriit of Columbia.
The provisions of the Crinlinal Code which deal with offenses Federal
in nature, wherever committed, whether in places under Federal,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Petitioner.

225 U. S.

state or territorial control, supersede the District Code; provisions,
however, in regard to offenses under state jurisdiction if committed in
a State or over which Congress has given local control to the Territories, and in regard to which it has adopted a separate code as
for Alaska, do not supersede the District Code.
The provision in § 272 of the Criminal Code of 1909 permitting the
jury to qualify the verdict of guilty in certain cases punishable by
death by adding "without capital punishment" does not supersede
the provisions in the District Code in regard to punishment for
murder.
Provisions in earlier statutes in regard to matters which are embraced
in and superseded by a later statute are repealed by the later statute;
but where the two statutes have definite territorial operation, they
can exist together and the.earlier one is not repealed or affected by
the later.
An objection that the jury was. not lawfully drawn must be availed of
at the trial; it cannot, under § 919 of the District Code, be made the
basis for setting aside.the verdict on appeal.
38 App D. C. 347, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a conviction
and sentence for murder in the District-of Columbia, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. Paca Oberlin and Mr. Thomas M. Baker (by special
leave of the court), with whom Mr. Joseph Salomon was
on the brief, for petitioner:
A'defendant in a capital case cannot waive anything
essential. Crainv. Unitid States, 162 U. S. 625. See, also,
Hill v. People, 16 Michigan, 351; Cancemi v. People, 18
N. Y. 128.
Reading of an indictment is necessary in all criminal
cases unless waived and in a capital case it cannot be
waived, and the record in such a case which is silent on

the same in legal effect as if it recited that
that point is,
reading was waived, or indictment hot read, and if either

be true the record is fatally defective.

Crain v. United

States, supra.
In capital and other infamous crimes both the arraign-

JOHNSON v. UNITE)
225 U. S.

STATES.

Argument for Petitioner.

ment and plea have always been regarded as a matter of
substance and must be affirmatively shown in the record.
Crain v. United States, supra. This is so well established
that the condition should not be disturbed. Informed of
the nature of the offense means reading the indictment.
Section 330 of the Criminal Code, authorizing the jury,
in capital cases, to add to their verdict "without capital
punishment," applies to the District of Columbia.
Prior to January 1, 1902, the date the District Code became effective, § 5339, Rev. Stat. was the statute under
which the offense of murder was prosecuted. Winston v.
United States, 172 J. Si 303; United States v. Guiteau, 1
Mack. 498.
An act entitled '"An act to reduce the cases in which the
death penalty may be inflicted," approved January 15,
1897, 29 Stat. 487, was held to be in force in the District
of Columbia. Winston v. United States, supra.
The District Code, in §§ 798,, 799, 800, prescribes what
constitutes murder in the first and second degrees. Section 801 prescribes that punishment of murder in the first
degree shall be death by hanging, and that of murder in
the' second degree, imprisonment for life or for not less
than twenty years.
Section 272 of the Criminal Code is, in part, substantially a renactment of that portion of § 5339, Rev. Stat.,
as to the commission of murder in any "place or district
of country under the exclusive jurisdiction of the United
States"; two degrees of murder are provided for in both
the District Code and Criminal Code; and the language
of § 330 of the Criminal Code is almost identical with
that of the act of January 15, 1897, which was held to be
in force in the District of Columbia.
Inconsistency between § 330 of the Criminal Code and
previous statutes, for the purpose of preventing that
section from being in force in the District, must be such
as clearly exhibits an intent on the part of Congress not to

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

give the people of the National Capital the benefits of the
law.
From early times it has been true that whenever there
was a statute in favor of life or liberty that construction
has been adopted by the courts which would cause it to
operate in all places where it could so operate. A general
act, prescribing the punishment of a specific offense
throughout the State, operates as a repeal of a public
local act prescribing a different punishment for a particular locality. Nusser v. Commonwealth, 25 Pa. St.
126; People v. Jaehne, 103 N. Y. 182.
An act changing the punishment only is not inconsistent with a failure to modify the elements of the crime
also, especially when the punishment is made less. Commonwealth v. Wyman, 12 Cush. 237.
The rule of construction by which general acts of Congress are held to be applicable to the District of Columbia
has been followed from the beginning. The Criminal
Code contains nothing to indicate that this rule should
be departed from.
Section 209 of the District Code, which expressly excepts capital cases, is the only provision in that code for
the drawing of juries in criminal cases. The former acts
of Congress regulating the selection of petit juries were
repealed by the -Code and §209 is therefore the only
statutory authority for completing juries; and as it expressly excepts capital cases the completing of the jury
according to its provisions was reversible error.
The Solicitor General for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
Johnson was indicted, tried and convicted in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia for the crime of
murder for killing one Ofenstein. and sentenced to death.

JOHNSON v. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

1

409

Opinion of the Court.

He moved for arrest of judgment and for new trial
on certain grounds which, among others, present three
questions-(1) whether he had been properly arraigned;
(2) the action of the court in giving and refusing instructions in regard to the power of the jury to add to their
verdict, if they found him guilty of murder, the words
"without capital punishment"; (3) the legality of the
manner of selecting the jury.
(1) The record recites the presence of the attorney for
the, United States, the defendant in proper person and by
his attorney, and adds that "thereupon the defendant
being arraigned upon the indictment pleads thereto not
guilty and for trial puts himself 'upon the country, and the
attorney of the United States doth the like."
The contention is that there is a fatal defect in that the
record does not show that the indictment was read to the
defendant -and to establish that such reading was necessary counsel invoke the Sixth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, which provides, among other
things, that in all criminal prosecutions the accused shall
be informed of the nature and cause of the action against
him. But to this it may be urged, as it is urged, that
information of the charge may be given-without reading
the indictment. But we may pass that, and grant also
that in capital and otherwise infamous crimes both the
arraignment and plea are a matter of substance, and must
be affirmatively shown by the record. We think that
they are shown if such be the fair intendment of the words
of the record. And this is demonstrated by the case that
is relied on against it, that is, Crain v. United States, 162
U. S. 625. In-that case the record did not show (and we
quote from the opinion, p. 636) "that the accused was
ever formally arraigned, or that he pleaded to the indictment," except as an inference from a statement in the
bill of exceptions that the jury were "sworn and charged
to try.the issues joined." It was held, after elaborate dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

cussion, three members of the court dissenting, that a plea
to the indictment was not a matter of form, but of substance, and should be shown by the record. In the discussion and in the cases cited the arraignment was considered as distinct from the plea and consisted of formally
calling the accused to the bar for the purpose of a trial.
We may quote as illustrative the following paragraph
from pages 637, 638:
"According to Sir Matthew Hale, the arraignment
consists of three parts, one of which, after the prisoner
has been called to the bar, and informed of the charge
against him, is, the 'demanding of him whether he be
guilty or not guilty; and if he pleads not guilty, the clerk
joins issue with him cul. prist, and enters the prisoner's
plea; then he demands how he will be tried, the common
answer is, by God and the country, and thereupon the clerk
enters po. se, and prays to God to send him a good deliverance.' 2 Hale's P1. Cr. 219. So, in Blackstone: 'To
arraign is nothing else but to call the person to the bar of
the court to answer the matter charged upon him in the
indictment.' 'After which [after the indictment is read to
the accused] it is to be demanded of him whether he is
guilty of the crime whereof he stands indicted, or not
guilty.' 4 Bl. Com. 322, 323 to 341. Chitty says: 'The
proper mode of stating the arraignment on the record is in
this form, "and being brought to the bar here in his own
proper person, he is committed to the marshal, etc. And
being asked how he will acquit himself of the premises
(in case of felony, and of 'the high treasons' in case of
treason.) above laid to his charge, saith," etc. If this
statement be omitted, it seems the record will be erroneous.' 1 Chitty's Cr. Law,* 419."
There is no explicit provision in the laws of the United
States describing what shall constitute an arraignment.
But so far as it is expressed it has a definite meaning.
By § 1032 of the Revised Statutes it is provided that

JOHNSON v. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"when any person indicted for any offense against the
United States, whether capital or otherwise, upon his
arraignment stands mute, or refuses to plead or answer
thereto, it shall be the duty of the court to enter the
plea of not guilty on his behalf, in the same manner as
if he had pleaded not guilty thereto. And when the party
pleads not guilty, or such plea is entered as aforesaid, the
cause shall be deemed at issue, and shall, without further
form or ceremony, be tried by a jury."
It will be observed that the word "arraignment" is
used as comprehensively descriptive of what shall precede
the plea. If it be so used in the law, it certainly can be
used in the record as showing the performance of that
which the law prescribes by it. We realize that both the
Constitution and the law are careful to direct that information be given to the accused of the charge against him.
By § 1033 it is provided that when any person is indicted
for any capital offense, if it be treason, three days before
the trial, and if it be any other capital offense, two days
before the trial, a copy of the indictment and list of jurors
and witnesses shall be delivered to him. And this can
be insisted on. Logan v. United States, 144 U. S. 263;
Hickory v. United States, 151 U. S. 303. We may presume
that the law was complied with in -thepresent case and that
Johnson 'was given a copy of the indictment as well as
having had it read to him, which we think the record
sufficiently shows; and as the record imports verity it
cannot be contradicted by an affidavit which counsel
filed in the case, even if it had been filed for such purpose,
which, according to counsel, it was not, but "to call the
attention of the court to the defect on the face of the
record." Evans v. Stettnisch, 149 U. S. 605, 607.
(2) Prior to January 15, 1897, homicide, as a crime
against the United States was divided into murder and
manslaughter "when committed within any fort, arsenal,
dock-yard, magazine, or in any other place or district of

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

country under the exclusive jurisdiction of the United
States," and upon the high seas and certain waters out
of the jurisdiction of any particular State. The punishment for murder was death; for manslaughter, a certain
term of imprisonment. Sections 5339, 5340, 5343. The
crime of rape, when committed in any of, the specified
places, was also punished by death. Section 5345.
By the act passed January 15, 1897, it was provided
"that in all cases where the accused is found guilty of
the crime of murder or of rape under section fifty-three
hundred and thirty-nine or fifty-three hundred and fortyfive, Revised Statutes, the jury may qualify their verdict
by adding thereto 'without capital punishment'; and
whenever the jury shall return a verdict qualified as
aforesaid, the person convicted shall be sentenced to imprisonment at hard labor for life." 29 Stat. 487, c.:
29.
It will be observed that § 5339 of the Revised Statutes
is made part of the act. By that section, reenacting
earlier acts of Congress, "every person who commits
murder"" within any fort, arsenal, dockyard, magazine, or
in any other place or district of country under the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States, shall suffer death."
The act was held applicable to the District of Columbia,
and under its provisions and § 5339 until January 1, 1902,
the date when the District Code became effective, murder
was prosecuted. Winston v. United States, 172 U. S.303.
By the Disfrict Code murder was divided into two
degrees, and it was provided that the punishment for
murder in the first degree should be "death by hanging."
Punishment for manslaughter was fixed at imprisonment
for life, or for not less than twenty years. Sections 798,
799 (this section made it murder in the first degree to put
obstructions on a railroad or street railroad), 800 and 801.
The District Code also changed the law as to rape and
fixed its punishment at not less than five nor more than
thirty years, the jury having the power to add to their

JOHNSON v. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

verdict, if it be guilty, the words "with the death penalty."
Section 808.
It necessarily followed that the provision for the qualified verdict ceased to apply in the District. Thereafter
the definitions and requirements of the District Code
prevailed and the death penalty was imposed for conviction of murder in the first degree for eight years.
In the meanwhile a commission was at work revising
and codifying the criminal and. penal laws of the United
States, with the result that a'Criminal Code was approved
March 4, 1909, 35 Stat. 1088, c. 321. It is the asserted
clash between its provisions giving power to the jury
to qualify their verdict and those of the District Code
under which, we have seen, the jury has not such power,
that constitutes the question in this case.
That some provisions of the Criminal Code are applicable to the District, is conceded. It is conceded by the
Government that the first ten chapters are applicable
just as they are to the States, Territories and other districts, and that the same is true of chapter 12. The
concession is put upon the ground that those chapters
deal with offenses Federal in their nature. Chapter 13, it
is said, relates to territorial jurisdiction and deals with certain offenses "'when committed within any Territory or
district, or within or upon any place within the exclusive
jurisdiction of the United States.'" So far as the District
Code deals with the offenses described in chapter 13, it
is superseded by the Criminal Code.
The Government says: "There seems to be no room
for doubt of this. The offenses defined are to be punished
as prescribed 'when committed within any Territory or
district, or within or upon any place within the exclusive
jurisdiction of the United States.' Sec. 311. The District'
of' Columbia comes within this description. Then we find
in § 319 that 'the provisions of this section shul apply
only within the Territories of the United States,' and in

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

§ 320 that 'the provisions of this section shall apply only
within the Territories of the United States and the District of Columbia.'
The final concession of the Government, therefore, is
that "it cannot be said broadly that in the enactment
of the Criminal Code there was no purpose to deal with
or modify the District Code in any respect." But the
Government turns from these concessions and insists that
chapter 11, in which murder is defined, was not intended
to apply to the District. This is deduced from the report
of the commission and § 272 of the chapter which defines
the territorial extent and the application of the chapter.
The commission in their report said: "In the revision of
this chapter we have deemed it important to define with
the greatest attainable precision the places within which
the jurisdiction of the United States over crimes shall be
exercised."
They adopted a definition by an enumeration of places.
Among others, the following:" Any fort, arsenal, dockyard,
magazine, other needful building, structure, reservation,
or other place under the exclusive jurisdiction of the
United States."
But the suggested definition was amended by the joint
committee of Congress and became § 272 of the Criminal
Code, which is less broad than the provision recommended
by the commission. That section provides: "The crimes
and offenses defined in this chapter [11] shall be punished
as herein prescribed. . . . Third. When committed
within or on any lands reserved or acquired for the exclusive use of the United States, and under the exclusive
jurisdiction thereof, or any place purchased or otherwise
acquired by the United States by consent of the legislature
of the State in which the same shall be, for the erection of
a fort, magazine, arsenal, dockyard, or other needful
building." The difference to be observed between this
provision and that recommended by the commission is the

JOHNSON v. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court

difference between "any fort
.
or other place under the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States," and
"any lands reserved or acquired for the exclusive use of
the United States, and under the exclusive jurisdiction
thereof." The word "lands" in the latter is limited, as
the word "place" was in the former, by its association.
It is further limited and, indeed, specialized by the qualification "reserved or acquired for the exclusive use of
the United States." In other words, it has a proprietary
and not a governmental sense, and is very inapt, indeed,
to describe the District of Columbia.
This view is reinforced by a comparision of § 272 with
§§ 5339 and 5570,of the Revised Statutes, which preceded
it, and of which it was intended to take the place. Section
5570 was the predecessor of the fourth subdivision of
§ 272, and we have no concern with it. The other three
subdivisions were preceded by § 5339, which provided as
follows: "Every person who commits murder-First.
Within any fort, arsenal, dock-yard, magazine, or in any
other place or district of country under the exclusive
jurisdiction of the United States;
'
"Second.
"Third. . . . shall suffer death."
It will be observed, therefore, how general and comprehensive the first clause of § 5339 is, and in comparison
how restricted and special is subdivision three of § 272.
In other words, there is omitted from the latter the words
by which, we have seen, it was decided in Winston v.
United States, supra, that the act of January 15, 1897,
supra, which was the first legislation giving the power to
a jury to qualify their verdict, was applicable to the
District of Columbia.
A change of language is some evidence of a change of
purpose, and certainly it could not have been supposed
that, the words "any lands reserved or acquired for the
exclusive use of the United States," used in § 272, would

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

be regarded as the equivalent in meaning of the words
"district of country under the exclusive jurisdiction of
the United States," used in § 5339. And yet it is mainly on
those words in § 272 that appellant relies. The District
of Columbia can hardly be said, as we have pointed out,
to be in any proper or adequate sense "lands reserved for
the exclusive use of the United States," while the words
"district of country under the exclusive jurisdiction of
the United States" can be, as they. had been, properly
and adequately held to include the District of Columbia.
Very little comment is necessary to show the purpose
of the restricted language of § 272. Chapter 11 'deals,
as said by the Government, with offenses of the kind
subject to the jurisdiction of the States severally where
there are States-offenses not distinctively Federal in
character, but subjects of local or domestic police. The
Territories provided their own laws in such cases, just
as the States did,. and there were distinct congressional
enactments for Alaska and the District of Columbia
which were not intended, we think; to be disturbed.
This conclusion gets strength from § 289, which provides
that if any act be done or omitted in any of, the places
mentioned in § 272 which is not made penal by a law of
Congress but is penal "within the territorial limits of any
State, recognized Territory or District," shall remain
penal notwithstanding a "subsequent repeal or amend-,
ment thereof by any such State or Territory or District."
It, follows, therefore, we think, that chapter 11 of the
Criminal Code, and necessarily § 272, which is a part of
it, are not applicable to the District of Columbia. And
it is an immediate inference that if the chapter defining
the crime of murder is not applicable, chapter 14, which
deals with its trial and incidents, may not be applicable.
There are circumstances which confirm the inference.
In chapter 11 the definition. of murder is essentially
the same as in the District Code, though there are some

JOHNSON v. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

differences in we manner of expression. It is divided into
murder in theeixst degree and murder in the second degree,
and in both the punishment is death, the District Code providing the manner of death to be by hanging, as does
the Criminal Code, in § 323 of chapter 14.
The punishment for murder in the second degree is
different in the different codes. In the District Code it
is imprisonment for life or for not less than twenty years;
in the Criminal Code, for life or for not less than ten
years. The punishments for manslaughter are also different, being for not more than ten years in the Criminal
Code and not exceeding fifteen years in the District Code,
or such imprisonment and a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars.
This brings us to the consideration of chapter 14, of
which it may be said that most of its sections are continuations of the sections of the Revised Statutes or of
former acts of Congress. For instance, § 330, which
provides for the qualified verdict, is the same as the act
of January 15, 1897, c. 29, § 1, 29 Stat. 487, except that
the words "murder in the first degree" are added.
Further comparisons of the sections and provisions of
the codes will not help us to clarify the situation, which,
it must be admitted, lends itself to controversy.
We think, however, that there are certain general
considerations which control. The codes are separate instruments, and no certain test can be deduced from pointing out particular likenesses or differences. But the effect
of separation is important and necessarily had its purpose.
The codes had in the main special spheres of operation
and provisions accommodated to such spheres. There
is certainly nothing anomalous in punishing the crime
of murder differently in different jurisdictions. It is
but the application of legislation to conditions. But
if it be anomalous, very little argument can be drawn from
it to solve the questions in controversy. The difference
VOL. ccxxv-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

existed for a number of years between the District and
other places under national jurisdiction, for, as we have
seen, the qualified verdict has not existed in the District
since the enactment of the District Code, and did not
exist when the Criminal Code was enacted. There is
certainly nothing in the mere act of enacting that code
which declares an intention to give to the provision conferring power on a jury to qualify their verdict greater
efficacy against the code of the District than the same
provision in the act of January 15, 1897, possessed. And
the difference between that act and the District Code we
cannot assume was overlooked and all that it meant in the
administration of criminal justice when Congress came
to review the laws of the country for the purpose of their
codification and necessarily the territorial extent of their
operation.
Congress certainly in enacting the District Code,
recognized the expediency of separate provisions for the
District of Columbia. It was said at the bar and not
denied that the District Code was not only the work of
t~ie lawyers of the District, having in mind the needs
of the District, but of its citizens as well, expressed
through various organizations and' bodies of them. In
yielding to the recommendations Congress made no new
precedent. It had given local control to the Territories,
and it enacted a separate code for Alaska.
But it is said that Congress recognized the incompleteness of the District Code, and provided that all incon-,
sistent acts of Congress passed thereafter should be held
.to modify its provisions, and to support this § 1639 is
cited. That section provides as follows:
"The enactment of this code is not to affect or repeal
any act of Congress which may be passed between the
date of this act and'the date when this act is to go into
effect; and all acts of Congress that may be passed hereafter are to have full effect as if passed after the enactment

JOHNSON v. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of this code, and, so far as such acts may vary from or
conflict with any provision contained in this code, they
are to have effect as subsequent statutes and as repealing
any portion of this act inconsistent therewith."
In connection with this section, § 341 of the Criminal
Code is referred to, which isas follows:
"Also all other sections and parts of sections of the
Revised Statutes and acts and parts of acts of Congress,
in so far as embraced within and superseded by this act,
are hereby repealed; the remaining portions thereof to
be and remain in force with the same effect and to the
same extent as if this act had not been passed."
This section adds no force or explanation to § 1639.
Of course, what was "embraced within and superseded by"
the Criminal Code is repealed by it. But we have to
consider, as we have considered, whether the provision
of the District Code in regard to the punishment of
murder were embraced within the Criminal Code, and
the discussion answers as well the contention based on
§ 1639. There is no inconsistency of superseding or
repealing effect between the Code of the District and the
Criminal Code, regarding the latter as an act of Congress
passed after the District Code. Having definite territorial
operation, they can exist together. And, as said by the
Court of Appeals, a cogent reason for the conclusion that
*they were intended to exist together is found in the repealing provisions of the Criminal Code, which, in chapter
15, enumerates in detail the provisions repealed, and no
reference is made to the District Code.
(3) The last contention of petitioner is that the jury
was not lawfully drawn. This contention is made as a
make-weight at the last minute. It was not made as a
ground for new trial or arrest of judgment, nor was it
assigned as error in the Court of Appeals. The contention
has the broad basis, according to the argument of petitioner, that there is no'way of impaneling jurors in a

420 .

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

225 U. S.

capital case in the District of Columbia without assenting
to or dissenting from the proposition. We think it constituted a ground of objection to the competency of the
jurors when they were called, and should have been
availed of at the trial. It is provided by § 919 of the
District Code that no verdict shall be set aside for any
cause which might be alleged as ground of challenge before
a juror is sworn, except for disqualifying bias not discovered or suspected by the defendant or his counsel
before the juror was sworn.
Judgment affirmed.

GLASGOW v. MOYER, WARDEN OF THE
UNITED STATES PENITENTIARY AT ATLANTA, GEORGIA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT, OF GEORGIA.

No. 1123.

Argued May 13, 1912.-Decided June 7,1912.

The writ of habeas corpus cannot be made to perform the office of writ

6f error.
,The rule that on habeas corps the court examines only into the power
and authority of 'the court restraining the petitioner to act, and not

the oorrecthiess of its conclusions, Mdtter of Gregory, 219 U. S. 210,
appiies where the petitioner attacks a9 unconstitutional, or as too
uncertain, the law which is the foundation of the indictment and
trial.
Where the court below has remitted the petitioner to his remedy on
writ of error, it would be a contradiction to permit him to prosecute
habeas corpus.
A defendant in a criminal case cannot reserve defenses which he might.
make on the trial and use them as a basis for habeas proceedings to
attack the judgment after trial and verdict of guilty. It would introduce confusion in the administration of justice.

