OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

225 U. S.

purpose to continue the same policy and an. intent, as
against general creditors, to preserve rights like those
given by the Georgia statute to landlords, even though the
lien was enforced and attached by levy of a distress warrant within four months of the filing of the petition in
bankruptcy.
Affirmed.

ATCHISON, TOPEKA & SANTA FE RAILWAY
COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT 'COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE' DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 716.

Argued April 3.0, 1912.--:Decided June 7, 1912.

Public policy requires that the mail be carried subject to postal regulations, and that the Department and not the railroad shall, in the
absence, of contract, determine what service is needed and the con4itions finder which it shall be performed.
A railroad company, not required so to do by its charter, is not bound
to furnish postal cars of the kind demanded or to accept terms named
by. the Postmaster General, but if it does carry the mail, it does so

as an agency of the G.o'ernment- and subject to the laws and the
regulatiofis of the Department.
A riailroad company cannot, by using a larger railway postal car than
that authorized by the Department, recover the greater value of the
car.
The Postmaster )eneral can establish full railway postal lines, and
as the greater includes b ic less, he can also establish half lines; he
can abolish between two points a full line in one direction and a
half lifie in the other.

THE- facts, which involve claims made by a railroad
company for furnishing railway post-office cars to the

Government, are stated in the opinion..

ATCHISON, T. & S. F., RY. v. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

641

Aiguinent for Plaintiff in Error.

Mr. Robert Dunlap, with whom Mr. Wm. R. Smith, Mr.
Lee F. English, Mr. James L. Coleman and Mr. Gardiner
Lathrop were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The parties were agreed upon the value of 60-foot
postal car lines as the maxinmum rate prescribed by Congress, and as such car lines were in fact used by the Government it must be held as having agreed to pay that value.
Minneapolis &c. Ry. Co. v. Columbus Mill Co., 119 U. S.
149, is in no sense analogous.
The Government in fact accepted and used 60-foot cars
during the entire period in question. There was no controversy between the parties as to the amount of pay which
was proper for the use of a 60-foot car.
The railway company very plainly offered to the Government the use of 60-foot railway post-office cars. The
use was for both directions, going and returning, upon the
same route. The Government sought to force the railway
company to furnish to it a 60-foot postal car in one direction and a 50-foot postal car on the return. The railway
company, declining to divide the car line defined in the
act of Congress, upon which it was entitled to base its
pay, the attempt to reduce the compensation, not i1pon
the ground that $40.00 per mile per annum was not the
proper charge for a 60-foot car, but solely upon the ground
that the Government only wished to use on the return
trip of such car fifty feet of space therein, will not avail.
The Government having in fact- accepted and used the
car is bound to pay for such use what throughout this case
it admits such car is worth. Thompson v. Sanborn, 52
Michigan, 141; Griffin v. Knisely, 75 Illinois, 412, 417,
418; Conway v. Starkweather, 1 Denio, 113.
The half lines R. P. 0. cars order made by the Postmaster General, effective July 23, 1907, was made without
authority, is evidently contrary to the act of Congress, is
oppressive and unreasonable, and therefore, invalid.
Congress provided a system for computing the pay and
I VOL. ccxxv-41

OCTOBER TERM,. 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

225 U. S..

indicated the manner in which the railway company was
to receive pay for the rent of its cars.. The order of the
Assistant Postmaster General in attempting to change
such basis Was not only in excess of the postal regulations,
but sought to impose conditions not embraced in the law
nor covered by any contract with the railway company,
either express or implied. The order of the Postmaster
General is a plain attempt to amend or add to the act of
Congress. That is not permissible. Morrill v. Jones, 106
U. S. 466, 467; Bruhl Bros. v. Wilson, 123 Fed. Rep . 957,
958; Hoover v. Salling, 1.10 Fed. Rep. 43.
The Postmaster General had no authority to impose
new and unjust or unduly burdensome conditions. United
States v. Stage Co., 199 U. S. 422;.UnitedStates v. Bostwick,
94 U. S. 66.
'The order is an attempt to change the express provisions
of the law and thus change the basis of compensation
without the consent of the railway company, the other
party interested therein. It would be invalid. United
States v. Symonds, 120 U. S. 46, 48, 49; United States v.
Barnette, 165 U. S. 174, 178, 179; 2 Willoughby on the
Constitution, 1326.
If. there was no express agreement fixing the price for
each car line, yet inasmuch as the Government in fact
accepted .and used 60-foot -cars for the round trips, it was
bound to pay the reasonable value thereof and the record
shows the Government to have admitted such value of
such car line to be the maximum fixed by Congress and
the railway company was entitled to demand and receive
that maximum unless. and until it agreed to lease its
cars for a less sum, wlhich was not either claimed or
shown.
A statutory maximum is the measure of the reasonable
value of a cartIer's service, the full extent of which it may
lawfully demand. Manchester &c. Ry. Co. v. Brown, oL.
:R. 8 App' Cas. 715; treat Western ky. Co. v. McCarthy,'

ATCHISON, T. & S. F. RY. v. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

643

Argument for the United States.

L. R. 12 App. Cas. 218, 235; Wolcott v. Yeager, 11 Indiana, 84.
There is the presumption, in the absence of a showing
to the contrary, that the maximum rate fixed by the legislature is the measure of a reasonable charge, where less
has not been specially agreed upon. Beals v. Amador
County, 35 California, 624; Archibald v. Thomas, 3 Cower,
284, 289.
The Government must pay for the kind of car which is
in fact furnished and used. Horton v. Cooley, 135 Massachusetts, 589.
There was no evidence nor any fact admitted which
tended to show that the maximum charge fixed by Congress was not the measure of the reasonable value of the
use of such cars in the absen ce, of an express agreement
to the contrary. Vail v. Jersey Little Falls Mfg. Co., 32
Barb. 564; Sidener v. Fetter, 19 Indiana, 310; Smithmeyer v: United States, 147 U. S. 343, 359, 360; The Albert
Dumois, 177 U. S. 255.
Eastern Railroad Company v. United States, 20 Ct. Cl.
23, 43, distinguished; 'See Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v.
United States, 28 Ct. Cl. 379.
On quantum meruit, where the contract has been varied
or departed from by the parties during performance, such
contract is admissible as containing admission of the
standard of value, etc. Reynolds v. Jourdan, 6 California,
109; Castagnino v. Balletta, 82 California, 250; Shirk v.
Brookfield, 79 N. Y. Supp. 225; Boyd v. Vale, 82 N. Y.
Supp. 932; Schulze v. Farrell, '126 N. Y. Supp, 678.
Mr. Joseph Stewart, with whom Mr. Assistant Attorney
General John Q. Thompson, Mr. S. S. Ashbaugh and Mr.
P. M. Cox were on the brief, for the United States:
The issues presented here are wholly issues of law arising upon the facts as found by the court below and admitted, if at all, in the pleadings, and no question can be

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for the United States.

225 U. S.

raised here, nor was such raised by assignment of error, as
to the existence of this alleged fact which the court did not
include in its findings and which is not admitted in the
Pleadings.
All argument submitted by plaintiff in error to show
that the maximum rate fixed by the statute for pay for
a full line of railway post-office cars is the value of the
service rendered by plaintiff in error is irrelevant. The
cases cited in support of plaintiff's contention may therefore be dismissed from consideration in this court.
The second main proposition of the plaintiff in error is
that the half-line railway post-office cars order complained
of was made without authority, was evidently contrary to
the lawi and was oppressive and unreasonable. Morrill
v. Jones, 106 U. S. 466; Bruhl v. Wilson, 123 Fed. Rep.
957, and Hoover v. Salling, 110 Fed. Rep. 43, are all cases
where some department of the Government attempted
by an order or direction to limit or curtail some right
guaranteed by a law of Congress to the whole people,
and are not in point.,
The case at bar is clearly distinguished from this class
of cases. Congress had provided that additional pay may
be allowed for every line comprising a daily trip each way
of railway post-office cars at a rate not exceeding certain
rates named in such statute for cars of certain lengths.
This statute does not guarantee to railroad companies an
-absolute allowance for such cars nor an allowance of the
maximum rates fixed by law in case such cars are authorized. As will be shown hereinafter, the law is merely
permissive and fixes maximum rates, allowing the Postmaster General full power and discretion to fix minimum
rates for such space as he may authorize, in accordance
with the actual needs of the service.
In the conduct of the postal service the Post-Office
Department is performing a governmental function. It
has complete control of the conduct of the postal service

ATCHISON, T. & S. F. RY. v..
UNITED STATES.- 645
225 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

in the exercise of one of the sovereign powers of the people.
A railroad company carrying the mails is not a common
carrier with reference to such mails, but sustains a specific
relation toward the United States. Bankers' Mut. Cas.
Co. v. Minneapolis &c., Ry. Co. 117 Fed. Rep. 434;
Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. United States, 28 CC.Cl. 379;
Minneapolis &c. Co. v. United States, 24 Ct'. Cl. 350.
If the company did not choose to accept the terms of the
Postmaster General it had the privilege to decline to perform the service, but it could not, by continuing to perform the service, force its own terms upon the United
States. Rev. Stat., §§ 3997, 3999, were practically superseded by the act of March 3, 1873 (Rev. Stat., §4002),
and the amending statutes authorizing the readjustment
of railroad mail pay on the basis of the average daily
weights and upon an entirely new scale of prices.
The making of the order by the Postmaster General was
not a violation of the contractual relations. Minneapolis
&c. Ry. Co. v. United States, 24 Ct. Cl. 350.
The Distance Circular and :proceedings thereon, including the railway company's reply, show that it was understood, and that it would, be subject as in the past to all
the postal laws and regulations which were then or might
become applicable during the term of the service.
It will be entirely clear from the above that no contract rights of the plaintiff were violated by the order
made by the Postmaster General.
The road in question was not a land grant aided railway, and was under no obligation to the Government to
carry the mails or furnish the space in cars for railway postoffice service, but was free to carry the mails or to decline
to carry them or to contract with the Government for
the performance of such services or to decline to contract.
Eastern Railroad Co. v. United States, 129 U. S. 391;
Minneapolis, &c. Ry. Co. v. United States, 24 Ct. Cl. 350.

The Postmaster General had power to make the order'

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

complained of authorizing "half car lines" and to subsequently fix the pay for the railway post-office car service
at a rate below the maximum provided by law for full
lines of railway post-office cars. See statutes and regulations governing allowance of railway post-office car pay.
Section 4004,. Rev. Stat., as amended by act of March 2,
1907, 24 Stat. 1212; act of March 3, 1879, § 4, 20 Stat.
358; § 1179, par. 3, Postal Laws and Regulations.
The Postmaster General has power to fix minimum
rates. Rev. Stat., §§ 4002, 4004; Eastern Ry. Co. v. United
States, 20 Ct. C. 23, affirmed, 129 U. S.391; Minneapolis
& St. Louis Railroad Co. v. United States, 24 Ct. Cl. 350;
Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. United States, 28 Ct. Cl. 379.
The orders complained of were an offer which the company could have accepted or rejected. The failure to reject such offer and to refise to perform the service, and
the actual performance of service thereafter, althpugh
under objection but with notice that the Department
would not pay for any greater space than that authorized,
was in effect an acceptance.
The orders were offers of business, which were in effect
accepted by furnishing the cars and performing the service.
Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co. v. United States, 15 Ct. Cl.
232; Eastern Railroad Co. v. United States, 20 Ct. Cl. 23;
S.,C., 129 U. S.391; Minneapolis & St. Louis Ry. Co. v.
-United States, 24 Ct. Cl. 350; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v.
United States, 28 Ct. Cl. 379.
The Department cannot force a contract upon a railroad
company situated as this company was. Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway Co. v. United States, 198 U. S.
389. With more reason it must be said that a railroad
company cannot force a contract upon the United States.
'MR.

JUSTICE LAMAR

delivered the opinion of the court.

The Atchison, Topeka & Santa F6 Railroad had a fouryear contract with the Post-Office Department to carry

ATCHISON, T. & S. F. RY. v. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

647

Opinion of the Court.

the mail between Chicago and Kansas City. Payment
was made on the basis of weight hauled and the speed with
which the service was performed. The company also
furnished sufficient "railway post office cars," sixty feet
in length, to make three round trips each twenty-four
hours. This constituted three "car lines," for which the
plaintiff received the maximum additional compensation
then allowed by Rev. Stat., § 4004, under which the pay
varied in proportion to the length of the car.
This contract was to expire June 30, 1907, by limitation;
and, with a view of obtaining data, and proposing terms
for a new arrangement to begin July 1st, 1907, the postal
authorities, in February, mailed to the company a "Distance Circular," which, among other things, stated that
the company was "to accept and perform mail service_
under the conditions prescribEd by law and the regulations
of the Department." The form was filled out and signed
by an agent of the company. He, however, noted exceptions to certain postal orders previously promulgated,
and "future regulations which, in the company's opinion,
might be unjust or unfairly reduce its compensation for
services." The circular, with these objections, was not'
received by the Department until July 24th, but the company, in the meantime, and without any express contract,
continued to carry the mails and to furnish the three car
lines. Payment therefor was made at the maximum rate
allowed by the act of March 2, 1907 (34 Stat, 1205. 1212,
c. 2513), which declared:
"Additional pay allowed for every line comprising a
daily trip each way of railway post-office cars shall be at
arate not exceeding twenty-five dollarsper mile per annum
for cars forty feet in length

.

.

.

thirty-two dollars

and fifty cents per mile per annum for fifty foot cars and
forty dollars per mile per annum for cars fifty-five feet or
more in length."
The Reports and Returns, as tb the amount of mail car-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

tied over plaintiff's road during the spring of 1907, indicated that the quantity of east bound matter was less
than that going west from Chicago to Kansas City. Accordingly the Department, on July 18, 1907, "authorized
'three half lines' R. P. 0. cars fifty feet in length
to supersede three 'half lines' of such cars sixty feet in
length over route 135,098, Chicago to Kansas City." As
the distance between the two cities was about 450 miles
this change would largely reduce the rate of pay, and the
company at once objected, claiming in the lengthy correspondence, and subsequent suit which followed, that the
statute did not authorize "half car lines"; that the order
would require the company to furnish 60-foot cars in one
direction and 50-foot cars on the return, thus involving
an empty haul one way or forcing the company to furnish
60-foot cars both ways, without corresponding or adequate
compensation.
The Department, on the other hand, insisted that under
the statute, regulations and long continued practice it had
the right to establish " half lines"; that" no contract would
be made with any railroad by which it could be excepted
from the postal laws and regulations," and that compensation would only be made in accordance with the orders
of the Department establishing the three half lines.
The warrant in settlement of the September Quarter
was made out on this basis. It was accepted by the company, but under protest. In answer the Department
again repeated the statement that any service performed
by the company must be with the distinct understanding
that payment was to be made in accordance with the orders
for space, facilities and car service, required by the postal
authorities. The plaintiff continued to protest and to
furnish the three full lines. They were daily used by the
Department for postal purposes, but payment was made
only for half lines.
The plaintiff thereupon brought suit, under the Tucker

ATCHISON, T. & S. F. RY. v. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

649

Opinion of the Court.

Act, claiming that even though there was no express agreement, it was entitled, as under an implied contract, to
recover the reasonable value of the three car lines authorized by law, furnished by the company and actually
used by the Post-Office Department. This contention
should have been sustained but for the fact that neither
party was bound to continue the indefinite relation begun
July 1, 1907, and under which the rights and liabilities
of each arose, from day to day, as the facilities were furnished by the one and used by the other. Whatever may
be the rule between private parties where both are demanding performance, and each is insisting on different
terms (Thompson v. Sanborn, 52 Michigan, 141; Jenkins
v. National Association, 111 Georgia, 732, 734), no such
question arises in a controversy like this between the railroad on the one hand and the post-office on the other.
For, public policy requires that the mail should be carried
subject to postal regulations, and that the Department
and not the railroad should, in the absence of a contract,
determine what service was needed and under what conditions it should be performed. The company in carrying
the mails was not hauling freight, nor was it acting as a
common carrier, with corresponding rights and liabilities
but in this respect it was serving as an agency of government, and as much subject to the laws and regulations as
every other branch of the Post-Office..
The statute defined a car line, but did not fix the compensation. It left that to be determined by the Postmaster General, who could have named any rate, ,not to
exceed the statutory maximum. By virtue of that authority he could have made the same price for 60-foot
cars as for 50-foot cars, and, as the greater includes the
less, he could abolish full lines, or establish "half lines,"
and adjust the rates accordingly. Such had been the
practice before' the passag6 of the act of 1907, and
there is nothing in its language indicating any intent

OCTOBER TERM, 1911..
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

to change the construction previously given, Rev. Stat.,

§4004.
The railroad, however, was not bound to furnish "half
lines" nor to accept the terms named by the Postmaster
General. For Congress had not legislated so as-to require
compulsory service, at adequate.compensation to be judicially determined or in a method provided by statute.
And as th'e plaintiff's road between Chicago and Kansas
City had not been aided by a land grant, it was, under
existing law, not obliged to carry the mails when tendered,
nor to supply R. P. 0. cars when demanded. Eastern Railroad v. United States, 129 U. S. 391, 395-396; United States
v. Alabama G. S. Railroad, 142 U. S. 615. It may have
been impracticable to furnish long cars one way and short
ones the other. But, there was in that fact no hardship
imposed by law. The company could have protected itself
against onerous terms, or inadequate compensation, by
refusing to supply the facilities on the conditions named
by the Department. But if, instead of availing itself of
that right, it preferred to 'furnish 60-foot cars after having
been informed that the Department only 'needed and
would only pay for those 50 feet in length, the company
cannot recover for more than' the Department ordered;
nor under the statute can it demand compensation for
full lines, when the Postmaster General had established
"half lines" consisting of cars of one length going and of
another returning on the route between Chicago and
Kansas City.
There was no error in dismissing the complaint, and
the judgment is
Affirmed.

