OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

225 U. S.

cided (ante, p. 282) and for the reasons in that case stated,
these cases must be and are remanded, with directions to
dismiss for want of jurisdiction, and
It is so ordered.

UNITED STATES, INTERSTATE COMMERCE
COMMISSION, AND FEDERAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY v. THE BALTIMORE AND OHIO
RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES COMMERCE COURT.
No. 722.

Argued January 15, 16, 1912.-Decided June 10, 1912.

The Commerce Court has jurisdiction of a pctition of a carrier to restrain an affirmative order of the Interstate Commerce Commission
that it desist from paying allowances for lighterage to one shipper unless it pays tile same to other shippers, and als- Jas power to determine whether such order was entitled to be enforced.
The Commerce Court has power to allow a preliminary injunction
against the enforcement of an order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission directing the carrier to desist from paying allowances for
lighterage.
An appeal to this court from an interlocutory order of the Commerce
Court allowing a preliminary injunction against the enforcement of
an affirmative order of the Interstate Commerce Commission lies
under § 2 of the act creating the court, now § 210 of the new Judicial
Code.
Under § 210 of the Judicial Code, injunction orders can be issued by
the Commerce Court restraining the enforcement of an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission in the following 'classes of cases:
First. A temporary restraining order staying in whole or in part
the operation of the order for not more than sixty days to be
allowed by the court or a judge thereof.
Second. A preliminary injunction to restrain or suspend in whole
or in part the operation of the Commission's order pendente lite
to be granted by the court.
Third. A perpetual injunction'upon entry of final decree.

UNITED STATES v. BAIT. & OHIO R. R. CO. 307
225 U. S.

-Argument for the Interstate Commerce Commission.

The requirements in § 210, Judicial Code, that a restraining order must
contain a statement of facts as to irreparable damage resulting from
the order of the Commission relate only to the first class of cass.
This court will not apply to the construction of the equity powers of
a statutory court, general principles of equity, if the effect would be
to destroy the law creating the court by expunging therefrom the
very powers which Congress intended to grant; and
so held that the
power given by § 210, Judicial Code, to the Commerce Court to issue
an injunction pendente lite was to enable that court to have proper
time for consideration, and the right of appeal to this court was
given as a safeguard against a possible abuse of the power to issue the
order; and the order will not be reversed in the absence of such abuse.
Where Congress creates a special tribunal for a special class of cases
with an appeal to this court it is the duty of this court to give effect
to that purpose and uphold the lawful authority of the court so
created and to also correct abuse of power when it appears.
In this case, held, that there was no abuse of power in issuing the order
for an injunction, pendente lite and the order is affirmed and the case
remanded so that there may be opportunity to dispose of it in the
forum selected by Congress for that purpose.

facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the Commerce Court and its power to issue restraining orders.
and injunctions, are stated in the opinion.
THE

The Solicitor General for the United States:
A carrier cannot make the ownership of comiodities
the test of its duty to carry them or the criterion of the
rates for carriage. Interstate Com. Comm. v. Delaware, L.
& W. R. R. Co., 220 U. S. 235. For the same reason the
carrier may not inquire as to the place of origin and base
its rates upon that.
I A carrier may not make ruies which discriminate between shippers standing in substantially the same relation
to it.

Union Pacific R. R. Co. v. Updike Grain Co., 222

U. S. 215.
Mr. P. J. Farrell for the Interstate Commerce Commission:
A carrier may establish a separate charge for terminal

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for the Interstate Commerce Commission.

225'U. S.

services which arc' in addition to and entirely separate
and distinct from the transportation; and where such
separate charge is established it must be considered as
applicable only to the services covered thereby as shown
by the tariffs of the carrier published and filcd. according
to law. Interstate Com. Comm. v. Stickney, 215 U. S. 98.
And see Southern Ry. Co. v. St. Louis Hay & Grain Co.,
214 U. S. 297.
One provision of the Interstate Commerce Act may not
be seized upon and used regardless of other provisions of
the same act to justify inequalities in the treatment accorded by carriers to shippers. The act was enacted for
the purpose of preventing such inequalities. Interstate
Com. Comm. v. Balto. & Ohio R. R. Co., 145 U. S. 263;
Union Pacific Ry. Co. v. Goodridge, 149 U. S. 680; Cinn.,
N. 0. & T. P. Ry. Co. v. Interstate Com. Comm., 162 U. S.
184; Texas Pacific Ry. Co. v. Interstate Com. Comm., 163
U. S. 197; Interstate Com. Comm. v. Cinn., N. 0. & T. P.
Ry. Co., 167 U. S. 479; Union Pacific R. R. Co. v. Updike
Grain Co., 222 U. S. 215; Wight v. United States, 167 U. S.
512; Interstate Com. Comm. v. Alabama Midland Ry. Co.,
168 IT.S. 144; East Tennessee, V. & G. Ry. Co. v. Interstate
Com. Comm., 181 U. S. I; New York, N. H. & H. R. R. Co.
v. Interstate Com. Comm., 200 U. 8. 361; Texas & Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Abilenc Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426; Interstate
Com. Comm. v. Chicago C. IV. Ry. Co., 209 U. S. 108;
Interstate Con. Comm. v. Illinois Cent. R. R. Co., 215 U. S.
452; Interstate Com. Comm. v. Delaware, L. & IV. R. R.
Co., 220 U. S. 235.
. The Commerce Court erred in substituting its own judgment for that of the Commission concerning the character

of the discrimination which constituted the basis of the
Commission's order. Interstate Com. Comm. v. Illinois
Cent. R. R. Co., supra; Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v.
United States ex rel. Pitcairn, 215 U. S. 481; Southern
Pacfic Co. v. Interstate Com. Comm., 219 U. S. 433; Inter-

UNITED STATES v. BALT. & OHIO R. R. CO. 309
225 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

state Com. Comm. v. Delaware,L. & W. R. R. Co., 220 U. S.
235.
Mr. Ernest A. Bigelow for the Federal Sugar Refining
Company:
The Commission's findings of fact, supported as they are
by the evidence, will not be reviewed by this court, Intergtate Com. Comm. V. Delaware, L. & W. R. R. Co., 220
U. S. 235; and its conclusions of law were correctly drawn.
See Coe v. Erroll, 116 U. S. 517; L. & L. F. Ins. Co. v.
R., W. & 0. R. R., 144 N. Y. 200; Penn. Ry. v. Int. Coal
Mining Co., 173 Fed. Rep. 1.
The Act to Regulate Commerce was intended to afford
an effective means for redressing the wrongs resulting
from unjust discrimination and undue preference, and the
incidental and wholly subordinate provisions of § 15 cannot be allowed to frustrate the fundamental purpose of
the act. Interstate Com. Comm. v. Illinois Cent. Ry. Co.,
215 U. S. 477.
As to the so-called admission made by counsel for the
Federal Sugar Refining Company. Even if made with
the full force and effect attributed to it, it is immaterial,
as the Commission has the po, er in the public interests
to consider the whole subject, disembarrassed by any
supposed admissions, even if contained in the complaint.
C. H. & D. Ry. v. Interstate Com. Comm., 206 U. S. 142.
On this appeal the court may properly conskler and
decide the whole cause on the merits. Smith v. Vulcan
Iron Works, 165 U. S. 518; Mast, Foos & Co. v. Stover Mfg.
Co., 177 U. S. 485, citing Knoxville v. Africa, 77 Fed:
Rep. 501; Green v. Mills, 69 Fed. Rep. 852.
Mr. George F. Brownell, with whom Mr. HerbertA. Taylor was on the brief, for railroad companies, appellees:
The service performed by the Federal Sugar Refining
Company through the medium of the Ben Franklin Trans-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellees.

225 U. 8.

portation Company is not a transportation service of the
railroad companies, but is wholly accessorial and cannot
lawfully be paid for by these appellees. In re Allowances
for Transfer of Sugar, 14 I. C. C. 619; Wight v. United
States, 167 U. S. 512; Chicago & Alton Ry. Co. v. United
States, 156 Fed. Rep. 558; GeneralElectric Co. v. N. Y. C.
& H. R. R. Co., 14 I. C. C. 237; Solvay Process Co. v. D.,
L. & W. R. R.-Co., 14 I. C. C. 246.
The employment of the Jay Street Terminal to act as
the public freight station of these appellees in receiving
and delivering freight and to perform floatage and lighterage service was perfectly lawful. Both the Commission
and the courts have held that railroads may secure and
maintain freight depots by contract with shippers and
that such depots thereby become legally and to all intents
and purposes the freight depots of the railroads. Central
Stock Yards, Co. v. L. & N. Ry. Co., 192 U. S.568; Railroad
Commission v. L. & N. Ry. Co., 10 I. C. C. 173; Cattle
Raisers' Assn. v. C., B. & Q. R. R. Co., 11 I. C. C. 277.
The entering into a contract with one shipper to furnish
station facilities does not result in a violation of the provisions of the Act to Regulate Commerce forbidding undue
preferences and advantages, even if similar contracts are
not made with all competing shippers in the same locality.
Central Stock Yards Co. v. L. & N. Ry. Co., 118 Fed. Rep.
113, 117; aff'd, 192 U. S.568; Covington Stock Yards Co. v.
Keith, 139 U. S.128, 136; Butchers' & Drovers' Stock Yards
Co. v. L. & N. Ry. Co., 67 Fed. Rep. 35; United States vi
Delaware, L.& W. R. Co., 40. Fed. Rep. 101; Consolidated
Forwarding Co. v. Southern P. Co.; 9 I. C. C. 1182, 206;
Worcester Co. V. Pennsylvania R. R. Co.,- 3 I. C. C. 577,
584; Re Transportationof Fruit, 10 I. C. C. 360.
An unjust discrimination or an undue preference is not
created by-the action of a railroad company'in employing
a shipper to perform ,apart of 'the transportation service,
when the shipper is paid a compensation that is reasonable

UNITED STATES v. BALT. & OHIO. R. R. CO. 311
225 U. S.

Argument for IrLtervenors.

for the performance of the service, simply because other
shippers who are not- in position to perform the same
transportation service-may be subjected to disadvantages.
Peavey & Co. v. Union Pacific AT. Co., 176 Fed. Rep. 409;
aff'd, 222 U. S. 42.
Mr. William N. Dykman for Jay Street Terminal and
Arbuckle Brothers, intervenors:
This court reviews the findings of the Interstate Commerce Commission upon appeal from an order granting
an injunction suspending the order of the Commission.
Interstate Com. Comm. v. Delaware, L. & W. R. Co., 216
U. S. 531; Interstate Com. Comm. v. Northern Pacific R.
Co., 216 U. S. 538. See, also, Missouri, K. & T. Ry. Co. V.
Interstate Com. Comm., 164 Fed. Rep. 645; . Kentucky
Bridge Co. v. Louisville & N. Ry. Co., 37 Fed' Rep. 567.
On an appeal from an order granting an injunction
pendente lite the appellant must, show that no cause of
action is stated in, the bill. Hudson R. T. Co. v. W. T. &
R. R. CO., 121,N. Y. 397.
No commission, nor any couri, can treat that as a public or private wrong which the Congress has authorized.
Hammersmith &c. R. Co. y. Brand, 4 H. L. Cas. 171;
Bellinger v. N. Y. C. R. Co., 23 N. Y, 42.
In New York, at least, there is no doubt of the validity,
of a contract by which a carrier limits its common-law
liability. Bermel y. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. Co., 6 App. Div.
389; aft'd, 172 N. Y. 629; Zimmer v. N. Y. C. & H. R. R.
CO., 137 N. Y. 460; Wheeler v. Oceanica S. N. Co., 125
N. Y. 155.
When the terminal receives sugar for shipment and issues
a bill of lading for and in the name of the railroad company, title to the merchandise changes from the consignor
to the consignee, Mee v. McNid.-r, 109 N. Y. 500; Wilcox
Silver Plate Co. v. Green, 72 N. Y. 17; Waldron v. Romaine,
22 N. Y. 368; Gilbertv. R. R. Co., 4 Hun, 317; Williston on

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Intervenors.

-

225 U. S.

Sales, § 278; and the railroad journey and responsibility
begins, Hutchinson on Carriers, § 158; Abe v. Eaton, 51
N. Y. 410. The liability of the carrier, in fact, begins as
soon as it receives, the merchandise for carriage, even if
bills of lading have not been shipped or a journey commenced; the mere reception of the goods for the purpose
of immediate transportation is sufficient to inaugurate
liability. Ames v. Fargo, 114 App. Div. 666; S. C., 42
Hun, 332; Hutchinson on Carriers, § 113.
The sole distinction between sugar shipped by Arbuckle
Brothers to themselves in one and the same car with the
general merchandise of another shipper is that the carriez
has contracted with the shipper to do a service and furnish
an instrumentality of transportation. This the Congress,
on the recommendation of the Commission, has expressly
authorized.
The Commission exceeded its power in forbidding payment to the Jay Street Terminal for handling Arbuckle
Brothers' sugar, because the terminal service is a part of
the railroad transportation, the. statute allows the carrier
to hire the shipper to render such a service and furnish
such instrumentality, and the allowance is conceded to
be no more' than is just and reasonable. Interstate Com.
Comm. v. Diffenbaugh, 222 U. S. 42; Union Pacific R. Co.
v. Updice Grain Co., 222 U. S. 215.
It is beyond the power of the Commission to order payments to the Federal Company for lightering sugar to
the railroad terminals. Wight v. United States, 167 U. S.
512; Chicago & Alton R. Co. v. United States, 156 Fed.
Rep. 558; General Electric Co. v. N. Y. C. & H. R. Co., 14
I. C. C. 237; Solvay Process Co. v. D., L. & W. R. Co., 14
I. C. C. 246; Matter of Allowance for Transfer of Sugar,
14 I. C. C. 619.
It is not a discrimination to contract with the Jay
Street Terminal.to maintain a railroad freight station in
Brooklyn and there to collect, receive and deliver freight,

UNITED STATES v. BALT. & OHIO R. R. CO. 313
225 U. S..

Argument for Intervenors.

issue bills of lading and float loaded cars between Brooklyn
and Jersey City, and at the same time refuse to contract
with the Federal Sugar Refining Company for lighterage
from Pier 24. Interstate Com. Comm. v. Baltimore & Ohio
R. R. Co., 145 U. S. 276; Central Stock Yards Co. v. L. &
N. R. Co., 118 Fed. Rep. 113; aft'd, 192 U.. S. 568. See, also,
Covington S. Y. Co. v. Keith, 139 U. S. 128; United Statesv. D., L. & W. R. R. Co., 40 Fed. Rep. 101.
It is lawful for a railroad to procure equipment by lease
from one shipper and to refuse to make identical contracts
with other shippers. Consol. Forwarding Co. v. Southern
Pacific Co., 9 I. C. C. 182; Worcester Ex. Co. v. P. R. Co.,
3 I. C. C. 577. See, also, Matter of Trans. of Fruit, 1
I. C. C. 360.
It is beyond the power of the Commission to allow more
than the cost of lighterage to the Federal Company to
offset less than cost paid the Jay Street Terminal for its
services. Minn. & St. L. R. Co. v. Minnesota, 186 U. S.
257; Matter of Allowance for Transfer of Sugar, 14 I. C.
C. 619.
It is elementary that a partner may engage with other
persons in a partnership business outside the scope of his
firm business, provided it does not compete therewith.
Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, Vol. 22, p. 118; Gossett v. Wilson, 3 Florida, 235; Weaver v. Weaver, 46 N. H. 188.
It necessarily follows that if one partner may engage in
a separate and distinct-business with other persons under'
a different partnership name, he may also engage in a
separate and distinct business under a different name
with the same persons who constitute the firm of which
he'is already a member. These two partnerships composed
of the same individual members engaged in separate and
distinct enterprises under different names are in the eyes
of the law separate and distinct entities.
Under the Bankrupt Act a partnership is a separate and
distinct legal entity from the individuals who compose it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

Collier on Bankruptcy, pp, 114, 115, 116; In re Sunderlin,
109 Fed. Rep. 857; In re McMurtrey, 142 Fed. Rep. 853.
A partnership may be adjudged a bankrupt although the
partners who compose it are not so adjudicated. In re
Bertenshaw, 157 Fed. Rep. 363.
The Bankrupt Act is merely declaratory of recognized
equitable principles in the administration of insolvent
partnerships., Hewitt v. Northrup, 75 N. Y. 506; Wilder
v. Keeler, 3 Paige, 67.
Arbuckle Brothers and Jay Street Terminal are separate and distinct entities.
Mr. H. B. Closson filed a brief for the Brooklyn Eastern
District Terminal, appellee.
'MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a suit instituted in the Commerce Court to enjoin the enforcement of an ,order by the Interstate Commerce Commission. .
The complainants: in the bill are The Baltimore and
Ohio Railroad Company, The Central Railroad Company
of New Jersey, The Delaware, Lackawanna and Western
Railroad Company, The Erie Railroad Company, The Lehigh Valley Railroad Company, The New York, Ontario
and Western Railway Company, and The Pennsylvania
Railroad Company. The Brooklyn Eastern District Terminal and John Arbuckle and William A. Jamison, copartners, trading as the Jay Street Terminal, intervened and
were made parties complainant, they being interested to
defeat the order of the Commission.
The defendant named in the bill is the United States.
The Interstate Commerce Commission appeared, and the
Federal. Sugar Refining Company intervened and was
made a party defendant.

UNITED STATES v. BALT. & OHIO R. R. CO. 315
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The order which it was the purpose of the suit-to enjoin
was made in a proceeding commenced before the Commission on behalf of the Federal Sugar Refining Company, to
compel the railroads above named to desist and abstain
from paying to Arbuckle Brothers, claimed to be operating
what is known as the Jay Street Terminal, certain so-called
allowances for floatage, lighterage and terminal services
rendered by them to the complainants in connection with
sugar transported by them in New York Harbor to and
for the complainants, while at the same time paying no
such allowances to the said Federal Sugar Refining Company on its sugar.
We substantially adopt as accurate a summary statement made of the subject-matter of the controversy in
the brief of counsel for the railroad companies:
"The Federal Sugar Refining Company has a refinery
at Yonkers, N. Y., and Arbuckle Brothers have a refinery
in the Borough of Brooklyn, New York City. The railroad
companies operate what-are known as trunk line railroads,
extending from New York to western and southern points.
In order to receive and deliver freight in New York City
they are obliged to transport the same across the waters
of New York harbor on lighters by what is called lighterage ser iice, or, when the freight is carried through in rallroad cars, on car floats by what is called floatage service.
"At numerous points along the New York City water
front within the lighterage limits they have established
public stations for the receipt and delivery of freight.
"They have als9 established boundaries known as
'lighterage limits,' including substantially all of what may
be called the' manufacturing and commercial portion of
the water front of New York City and the opposite shore
of New Jersey -and within these boundaries they receive
and deliver freight at any accessible point on the water
front without any additional charge above the New York
rates, which are, generally speaking, the same as the rates

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

to and from the terminals on the New Jersey shore. At
'public' docks open to any vessel, the railroad pays the
wharfage; at private docks the shipper or consignee must
arrange for the necessary dockage.
"At a number of points in the Boroughs of Brooklyn
and the Bronx, the railroad companies or some of them
furnish public stations through arrangements made with
terminal companies to furnish union public stations and
terminal facilities for the receipt and delivery of freight in
cars and through freight houses, and for the transportation of such freight between such terminal stations and
the railroad companies' rails on the western shore of the
harbor, all of which is done for and in the name of the
railroad companies under provisions of their tariffs filed
with the Interstate Commerce Commission under which
their New York rates apply to and from such union public
stations.
"One of these public terminal stations, known as the
Jay Street Terminal, is owned and operated by William A.
Jamison and John Arbuckle, conducting a separate business in that respect as copartners Under the name and
style of 'Jay Street Terminal' in accordance with the
laws of the State of New York. Jay Street Terminal is
named as a station of the railroad companies, appellees,
in their respective tariffs, and is conducted under contract
with the railroad companies like any other freight station,
bills of lading being issued from and to it on behalf of the
railroad companies and in their names, on the regular uni:.
form form, charges being collected and accounts kept, the
Jay Street Terminal performing the entire physical and
clerical service and furnishing the necessary docks, freight
yard and station buildings and equipment, excepting
cars. The Jay Street Terminal also floats or lighters all
shipments between the terminal and the rails of the railroad companies on the New Jersey shore. For these
services and facilities each railroad company pays to the

UNITED STATES v. BALT. & OHIO R. R. CO. 317
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Jay Street Terminal an aggregate compensation figured
on the freight handled for it, based on the rate of 4 1/ 5 cents
per hundred pounds on freight originating at or destined
to points at or west of the westerly limits of Trunk Line
Territory, so- called, and 3 cents per hundred pounds on
freight originating at or destined to points east of the westerly limit of Trunk Line Territory. The same amounts
per hundred pounds are paid to other terminal companies
furnishing similar service at New York.
"The refinery of Arbuckle Brothers, a copartnership
composed of William A. Jamison and John Arbuckle; is
within two blocks of the Jay Street Terminal, and they
truck sugar from their refinery to this terminal and load
it into cars t their owwexpense and deliver it to the Jay
Street Terminal and obtain the railroad company's bill
of lading for it from the Jay Street Terminal just as other
shippers do with other freight.
"The refinery of the Federal Sugar Refining Company
at Yonkers, New York, formerly operated by the Federal
Sugar Refining Company of Yonkers, is located on the
Hudson River, ten miles north of the lighterage limits.
The sugar manufactured at this refinery and shipped over
the lines of these appellees is loaded onto lighters of the
Ben Franklin Transportation Company, an independent
boat line with which the Federal Sugar Refining Company has made a contract, under which the boat line lighters its sugar to the terminals of the railroad companies
for three cents per hundred pounds. The boat line brings
the sugar to the terminals of the railroads on the western
shore of New York harbor and delivers it to them for rail
transportation.
"The Federal Sugar Refining Company's refinery at
Yonkers is located directly on the tracks of the New York
Central, and Hudson River Railroad Company. Over
this railroad the rates to the, points in the shipping territory
of the Federal Sugar Refining Company are with few

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the ,Court.

225 U. S.

exceptions the same as the rates via the lines of the railroad
companies. To ship at the Ne w York rate over the lines
of the roads the Federal Sugar Refining Company can
deliver its shipments to the New York Central and Hudson
River Railroad at Yonkers, thence to be transported by
that railroad to New York and there delivered to the said
railroad companies within lighterage limits. None of
these railroads have lines extending to Yonkers. Because
of alleged delay in the handling and transportation of shipments via this route, the Federal Sugar Refining Company
sometimes prefers to deliver said shipments by lighter to
the said railroad companies at their stations on the New
Jersey shore of New York harbor.
"Prior to July, 1909, these shipments were carried by
the Ben Franklin Transportation Company directly to
the rail terminals on the Jersey shore from Yonkers without stop. Since that date the lighters stop en route at
Pier 24, North River. The reason for stopping at Pier 24
is found in-the decision made by the Commission,in case
No. 1082, brought by the Federal Sugar Refining Company of Yonkers,. the predecessor of the Federal Sugar
Refining Company, against the same railroad companies,
appellees here (17 I. C. C. 40). The complaint'in that
proceeding claimed a discrimination against the Federal
Sugar Refining Companyof Yonkers and in favor of the
Jay Street Terminal and the Brooklyn Eastern District
Terminal, an incorporated, company operating a similar
terminal station in another section of Brooklyn, because
of the refusal of the railroad companies to pay it the same
amounts on account of the lighterage performed by the
Ben Franklin Transportation Company from Yonkers to
the rail terminals of the railroad company on the western
shore of New York harbor as were paid to the two terminal
companies above named on account of the various services
performed and terminal facilities furnished by them in
connection with the transportation of sugar shipped by

UNITED STATES v. BALT. & OHIO R. R. CO. 319
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Arbuckle Brothers and the American Sugar Refining
Company respectively. This complaint was dismissed
because the extension of the lighterage limits in New York
harbor of the railroad companies was a matter of business
discretion, and that the Commission had no authority to
require such extension beyond the then prescribed boundaries, and that the Federal Sugar Refining Company, being
located outside of the prescribed lighterage limits, was
not subjected to unlawful discrimination by reason of the
practice of the railroad companies in affording free lighterage on shipments originating at a distance to points
within said lighterage limits while refusing to so afford on
shipments of the Federal Sugar Refining Company.
"As a result of this decision of the Commission the
lighters of the Ben Franklin Transportation Company
were stopped en route from Yonkers at Pier 24, North
River, where certain formalities with reference to shipping
orders were had for the purpose of making it appear as a
matter of law that these shipments were made not from
Yonkers, but from Pier 24, North River, a point within
lighterage limits., A new complaint was 'filed with the
Commission, setting forth the same grounds of discrimination as the prior one, but on the theory that the decision
of the Commission did-not apply because the shipments
of the Federal Sugar Refining Company were now lightered
from Pier 24, a point within lighterage limits and not from
Yonkers, the Commission held as a matter of law that the
stoppage of the. lighters of the Ben Franklin Transportation Company for instructions at Pier 24, differentiated
the case from the former one and made the following
order:
"'It is ordered that the above-named defendants (the
appellees) be and they are hereby notified and required
to cease and desist on or before the 15th day of April, 1911,
and for a period of not less tha.n two years thereafter abstain from paying such allowances to Arbuckle Brothers

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

on their sugar, while at the same time paying no such al-,
lowance to said complainant (Federal Sugar Refining
Company) on its. sugar, which said allowances so paid to
said Arbuckle Brothers by said defendants are found by
the Commission in said report to be unduly discriminatory
and in violation of the act to regulate commerce.'
"The so-called 'allowances' referred to in this order
are, a part of the payments making up the compensation
of the Jay Street Terminal, figured at the rates of three
cents and 41 cents per hundred pounds as above described."
This is the order the enforcement of which was the
subject-matter of the coniroversy in the court below.
The United States, the Interstate Commerce Commission and the Federal Sugar Refining Company promptly
filed motions to dismiss the petition and the intervening
petition of the Jay Street Terminal upon the ground of
want of equity and becausethe order of the Commission
was an adjudication of matters of fact as to which its
judgment was conclusive. The petitioners, on the other
hand, applied for an injunction pendente lite suspending
the order of the Commission until the final determination
of the action. The motions to dismiss were denied. On
the same ,day,the motion for a temporary injunctionwhich had been heard upon the petition and intervening
petitions and affidavits submitted by petitioners in support of the averments of the petition and intervening
petition-was granted, and the assailed order "and its
force and effect" was suspended until the further order of
the-court. This appeal was then taken.
There was clearly a right in the court below to entertain
jurisdiction of the petition and to determine whether the
affirmative order of the Commission was entitled to be
enforced. There was clearly also power in the court to
allow a preliminary injunction, since that authority is
confqrred in. express terms by § 3 (208) -of the act. And

UNITED STATES v. BALT. & OHIO R. R. CO. 321
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.'

the right to appeal from such an order is also in express
terms conferred by § 2 (210) of the act.
It is urged on behalf of the United States and the Interstate Commerce Commission that, wholly irrespective
of the merits of the petition, the order granting the interlocutory injunction must be reversed because of what
is insisted to be the express requirements of the act imposing the duty on the Commerce Court or a judge of
that court if a restraining order is granted under the conditions in the statute to state the facts from Which it is
found that irreparable injury would arise if a restraining
order were not allowed. The section containing, the provision relied upon is as follows:
"That suits to enjoin, set aside, annul, or suspend any
order of the Interstate Commerce Commission shall be
brought in the Commerce Court against the United States.
The pendency of such suit shall not of itself stay or suspend the operation of the order of the Interstate Commerce Commission; but the Commerce Court, in its discretion, may restrain or suspend, in whole or in part, the
operation of the Commission's order pending the final hearing and determination of the suit. No order or injunction
so restraining or suspending an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission shall be made by the Commerce
Court otherwise than upon notice and after hearing, except that in cases where irreparable damage would otherwise ensue to the petitioner, said court, or a judge thereof,
may, on hearing, after not less than three days' notice to
the Interstate Commerce Commission and the Attorney
General, allow a temporary stay or suspension in whole
or in part of the operation 'of the order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission for not more than sixty -days
from the date of the order of such court or judge, pending
application to the court for its order or injunction, in
which case the said order shall contain a specific finding
based upon evidence submitted to the judge making the
VOL. ccxxv-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

order and identified by reference thereto, that such irreparable damage would result to the petitioner and specifying the nature of the damage. The court may, at the time
of hearing such application, upon a like finding, continue
the temporary stay or suspension in whole or in part until
its decision upon the application."
Without ambiguity we think the statute contemplates
three classes of orders: First, a temporary restraining
order staying in whole or in part the operation of the order
of the Interstate Commerce Commission for not more
than sixty days from the date of the suspensive order, to
be allowed by the court or a judge thereof; second, a preliminary injunction, that is, an injunction pendente lite,
which, to quote the words of the statute, may be granted
by the court to "restrain or suspend, in whole or in part,
the operation of the Commission's order pending the final
hearing and determination of the suit;" third, in the
nature of things a perpetual injunction upon the entry of
the final decree. The order in this case, made after notice
and hearing, suspending the force and effect of the order
of the Commission until the further order of the court,
Vas obviously an exercise of the power conferred to grant
a preliminary injunction or injunction pendente lite and
not of the power to allow a temporary restraining order
embraced in the first of the classes stated. As we think it
clear that the requirements of the statute relied upon
respecting the statement of facts as to irreparable damages relate only to the first class of cases, that is, the power
to issue a femporary restraining order, we hold the objection to be without merit.
This brings us to consider the scope of our reviewing
authority under the right conferred by the statute to appeal from the-allowance by the court below of a preliminary injunction or injunction pendente lite. To determine
this question requires a consideration of the nature and
character of the powers which the court had a right to

UNITED STATES 'v. BALT. & OHIO R. R. CO. 323
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

exert over the subject-matter presented to it by the petition filed to perpetually enjoin the enforcement of the order
of the Commission.
We have determined in the Procter & Gamble Case, ante,
p. 282 that the Commerce Court was but endowed in considering whether an affirmative order of the Commission
should be enforced on the one hand or set aside and declared non.-enforcible on the other with the jurisdiction and
power existing at the time that act was passed in the Circuit Courts of the United States. And as, at that time it
was conclusively settled that the courts had only authority
to reexamine the findings of the Commission as to subjects
like the one here under consideration, for the purpose of
ascertaining whether the action of the Commission was
repugnant to the Constitution, in excess of the statutory
powers conferred upon it, or manifested such an abuse
as to be equivalent to an excess of authority, it clearly
results that the court below was likewise limited in passing
upon the petition before it in this case. This being true,
it is also necessarily true that virtually the sole authority
of the court below was in a sense confined to determining
questions of law arising upon the case as presented on the
face of the pleadings. Under the general principles of
equity, where a court is called upon to decide whether
it will allow a preliminary or pendente lite injunction the
duty arising requires it to be determined whether on the
face of the papers presented there is such an equitable
cause of action presented as justifies the issue of a preliminary injunction to prese-rve the status pending the
suit, that is, to afford an opportunity for a trial of the
issues presented. Necessarily it is true also that where an
appeal is allowed from an order granting a preliminary injunction the reviewing court is put to the duty of determining whether on the face of the papers the court below
erred as a matter of law in granting the preliminary injunction. Do these principles apply to the case before

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

us, is then the first consideration. The result of holding
that they do will inevitably cause, the expunging from the
act of.the express authority conferred to issue a preliminary
injunction, since -viewed under the general principles of
equity the criteria by which to determine the rightfulness
of such an order in view of the nature and character of
the jurisdiction of the Commerce Court is exactly and
exclusively the same criteria by which the rightfulness
of a final decree of that court issuing a perpetual injunction in conformity to such decree would'require to
be tested. Our duty, however, is not to destroy the law
but to enforce it, and in doing so to seek to discover the
intention of the lawmaker, the wrong intended to be
prevented and the remedy designed to be afforded by
the enactment of the statute. Coming to consider the
statute for this purpose, we have pointed out in the Procter & Gamble Case that the great remedy intended to be
accomplished was the concentration in a single court of
the power to consider the rightfulness of enforcing or setting
aside orders of the Commission; that to prevent unnecessary delayrs the limitations as to restraining orders and
their duration and the hearing which is commanded as
to irreparable injury was enacted. It must therefore in
reason be that the power to issue a preliminary injunction
was recognized and preserved so as to afford the court
the proper time for deliberation and consideration of the
questions to be decided by the Commission instead of
compelling that body virtually eo instante upon the presentation of a petition to reach a final conclusion. And
it would seem also to be the case that the right to appeal
from such an order was given as a safeguard against a
possible abuse of discretion by an uhwarranted, arbitrary
and unreasonable exercise of the power conferred. , In
other words, we think that the enlightened purpose of
Congress was that the court -which it created, in the
exercise of the important trusts confided to its authority

UNITED STATES v. BALT. & OHIO R. R. CO. 325
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and where occasion required it as a consequence of the
gravity and complexity of the legal questions which might
arise, should be afforded ample opportunity for due consideration and ripe judgment and that it was not intended
to compel precipitate, and perhaps ill-considered, action.
Coming to consider the case presented in the light of
these principles, in -w of the doubt which existed as to
the scope and effect of the powers conferred upon the
Commission, as shown by the decision of the court in the
Procter & Gamble Case, of the nature and character .of
the subject-matter here under consideration and its importance, of the action of the Commission had on that
subject prior to the making of the order of the Commission which was assailed by the petition, and especially of
the diversity of opinion which existed among the members
of the Commission on the subject, we think there is no
room for saying that the preliminary injunction issued
was in excess of the power conferred upon the court, because of the plain want of necessity for it resulting from
the obvious nature and character of the legal questions
as to which the judgment of the court was invoked in
consequence of the filing of the petition calling for the
exertion. of the authority conferred upon it by Congress.
It is not disputable that although the right to appeal to
this court from an order like the one here in question is
conferred, yet obviously the purpose which must have
caused the creation of the Commerce Court must have
been the desire to interpose between the action of the
Commission and this couft an intermediate tribunal,
having the powers which the Statute delegates to it. Our
duty is to give that purpose effect and to uphold the lawful authority of the' court, without deviation and yet
without hesitancy where there has been an abuse of discretion to correct it in the completest way. But as this
case manifests no such abuse, our duty is not to reverse
the action of the court but to remand the case so thab

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

225 U. S.

there may be an opportunity to dispose of it on the merits
in the forum selected by Congress for that purpose. Of
course, in saying this, we must not be understood as deciding or in any way implying that the duty would not
exist to examine the merits of a preliminary order of the
general character of the one before us in a case where
it plainly in our judgment appeared that the granting of
the preliminary order was in effect a uecision by the court
of the whole controversy on the merits or where it was
demonstrable that grave detriment to the public interest
would result from not considering and finally disposing of
the controversy without remanding to enable the court
below to do so.
Affirmed.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION -AND
THE UNITED STATES v. BALTIMORE AND
OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY, PENNSYLVANIA
RAILROAD COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES COMMERCE 'COURT.
No. 719.

Argued January 12, 15, 1912.-Decided June 7, 1912.

An interstate carrier may not charge a different rate for the transportation of raiload-fuel coal to a given point than for the transportation
of commercial coal to the same point. It would be an illegal preference or discrimination under § 3 of Act to Regulate Commerce.
Tariffs are but forms of words, and the Interstate Commerce Commission, in the exercise of its powers to administer the Act to Regulate Commerce, can look beyond the forms to what caused them and
what they aie intended to, and do, cause.

