SEABOARD AIR L]KNE RY. v. DUVALL.
225 U. S.

-Syllabus.

SEABOARD AIR LINE RAILWAY v. DUVALL.
ERROR TO T14E SUPREME COURT. OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.
No. 304., Argued April 30, 1912.-Decided June 10, A912.'
To give this court jurisdiction under § 709, Rev. Stat., it must appear
upon the record, and not by certificate of the judge, that a right
under the Constitution or laws of the United States was set up and
denied. While such a ccrtificate may make more certain' the fact
that the Federal right was asserted and denied, it is insufficient to
confer jurisdiction if the record itself ddes not show the fact. Louisville
& Nashville R. R..v. Smith, 204 U. S. 551.
The fact that a case in the state court asserts a claim based on a Federal
statute, does not give this court jurisdiction to review the judgment
under § 709,. Rev. Stat., if none of the exceptions are based on the
refusal of the court to make a definite construction of the act as.requested by the plaintiff in error.
Where the case comes up uider § 709, Rev. Stat, this court is not one
of general review.. It can re~xamirLe only those rulings which. denied
Federal rights specially set up.
It is the duty of. counsel asking inthe state court for a particular construction of a Federal statute involved in the case to put the request
in such definite terms that the record will-show that it was a claim of
Federal right specially set up as required by § 70"9 in order to' give
this court jurisdiction.
The trial court is not under obligation to give special charges based on
only a part of the evidence.
Where the only defense te an action for personal injuries by an employ6 of an interstate railway carrier is contributory negligence on
the part of the plaintiff in going into a car .inviolation 9f a rule
requiring him to remain in another. car, no construction of the provision of the Employers' Liability Act 'that the employ6 can only
recover if injured while employed by the carrier is involved" whichis reviewable by this court, unless the request is definitely set up
as a Federal right specially asserted and denied.
Excepting to a part of the charge by saying that an employd's going
from the baggage car into the express car of a train issuch an act
that a reasonably prudent-man would not have done under the cir-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

225 U.'S.

cumstances does not raise specific fquestions as to the construction of
the Employers' Liability Act under which th-e action was brought and
give this court jurisdiction to review under § 709, Rev. Stat.
Writ of error to review 152 No. Car. 524, dismissed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
under § 709, Rev. Stat., to review the judgment of a state
court in a case brought under the Federal Emloyers'
Liability Act, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Walter H. Neal and Mr. Benjamin Micou, with
whom Mr. Hilary A. Herbert, Mr. Richard P. Whiteley
and Mr. E. T. Cansler were on the brief, for plaintiff in

error:
This court has jurisdiction.
The case was a civil, action instituted by defendant in
error against plaintiff in error under the Federal Emtloyers' Liability Act of 1908.
The record itself is the best evidence that the suit was
instituted under the act.
No specific reference is made in the complaint to the
Federal act by name, but under the rules of pleading
this was neither necessary nor proper. Emerson v. St.
Louis & H Ry. Co., 111 Missouri, 161; Kansas City, M. &
B. R. Co. v. Flippo, 35 So. Rep. 457; 138 Alabama,.487.
If the allegations of the complaint show that the action
is based on a public statute not penal, it is sufficient,
without counting on or reciting the statute. Peru v.
Barrett, 100 Maine, 213; Voelker v. Chicago Ry. Co., 116
Fed. Rep. 867; Thorton's Employers' Act, § 175; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Brinkmeier (Kansas), 93 Pac. Rep.
622; Kan. City M. & D. R. R. Co. v. Flippo, 35 So. Rep.
460; Lemons v. L. & N. R. R. Co. (Ky.), 125 S. W. Rep.
702.
Whether the complaint sufficiently charges a cause of
action under the Federal statute, is one of pleading and

SEABOARD AIR LINE RY. v. DUVALL.
225 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

is necessarily governed by the state practice. Hancock v.
Railroad, 124 Nor. Car. 222; see also 20 Ency. of Pleading
& Practice, p. 594 and notes.
The case was. tried by the trial court of North Carolina
under this Federal statute.
Evidence was offered and admitted to establish the contention of plaintiff in error on the issues joined in the
complaint and answer..
The charge, as given by the court, would find no place
in an action under the North Carolina statute, or at
common law.
The highest court of the State, the Supreme Court,
reviewed the case under this Federal statute.
The opinion of that court may be examined to ascertain
whether the Federal question was presented and- passed
upon., San Jose Land Co. v. San Jose Ranch Co., 189
U. S. 180; Grosse v. Mortgage Co., 108 U. S. 477; Fire Association v. New York, 119 U. S. 110.
Even where the Federal question was first raised in a
petition for a rehearing, after the case had been decided
adversely by the Supreme Couxt of the State, this court
has taken jurisdiction. Mallett v. St. North Carolina, 181
U. S. 592; Leigh v. Green, 193 1J. S. 85.
The writ of error was granted by the Chief Justice of
the Supreme Court of North Carolina, upon a petition
that declared that the case was brought under the Federal
statute, and that Federal questions were presented, and
the construction placed thereon was adverse to the construction asked by the plaintiff. Illinois v. McKendree,
203 U. S. 525; Rector v. City Bank, 200 U. S. 405, 412;
Marvin v. Trout, 199 U. S. 21.
The case must have been tried under the Federal act
and not under the state law.
The act supersedes both the common and statutory
law of the several States bearing on the subject covered
by said act. Fulgham v. Middling Valley R. R. Co., 167

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Axrgument for Plaintiff in Error.

225 U. S.

Fed. Rep. 662; Dewberry v. So. Ry. Co., 175 Fed. Rep. 307;
Clark v. So. Pac. Co., 175 Fed. Rep. 122; Cound v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 173 Fed. Rep. 527; Lemon's Admr.
v. L. & N. Ry. Co., 125, S. W. Rep. 103; State v. Tex. &
No. R. R. Co., 124 S. W. Rep. 984; Calhoun v. Cent. of Ga.
Ry. Co., 67 S. E. Rep. 274.
The suit was brought and the case tried in the state
courts under the Federal act. If so, then presumably the
proceedings had at the trial are properly referable to that
act, and the rights and liabilities of the respective parties
arise under the act. The plaintiff below alleged in -his
complaint, and offers evidence in support of the allegation, that he was injured while actually employed by the
receivers of the plaintiff in error in interstate commerce.
That is, while actually engaged in discharging the duties
of a baggage master. This having been his allegation, it
follows that if he recovers it must be upon proof conforming to said allegation. lie could not sue under the Federal
statute and recover at common law.
Plaintiff in error does not ask the court either to go into
any controverted questions of fact, or to pass on the admissibility of any evidence excluded from the jury, but
contends that it was entitled to instructions construing the
law as applicable to admitted evidence in its aspect most
favorable to the plaintiff in error.
Where a party relies upon an act of Congress, and the
questions construed by the court, and upon which the case
turned, were. whether the party had brought himself
within the scope of that act, a Federal question is presented. San Jose Land Co. v. Ranch Co., 189 U. S. 177;
St. L. I. M. & S. R. Co. v. Taylor, 210 U. S. 281.
The Federal question was properly and seasonably presented in the court below.
Where a servant departs from the sphere of his assigned
duties, the relation of master and servant is considered as
temporarily suspended, and his position then becomes

SEABOARD AIR LINE RY. v. DUVALL.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that of a trespasser or a bare licensee. Thornton, Employers' Liability, § 24; 2 Labatt, Master & Servant,
§ 629; White on Personal Injuries, § 227; 3 Elliott on
Railroads, § 1303.
Mr. William C. Douglass for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE

LURTON delivetred the opinion of the court.

This was an action by an employ6 of the plaintiff in error
to recover damages for severe and permanent personal
injuries alleged to have been received while in its service.
The plaintiff alleged that he was baggage-master and flagman on one of the defendant's passenger trains, running
from Portsmouth, Virginia, to Monroe, North Carolina.
That a head-on collision occurred with another of defendant's trains, whereby plaintiff and others were injured, and that the collision was due to the negligence of
defendant's officers and agents. The answer was, in substance, a general denial for want of knowledge. There
was a jury, Verdict and judgment for the defendant in
error, which was later affirmed by the Supreme Court of
the State. This writ of error was allowed by the Chief
Justice of that court upon the ground that "there was
drawn into question a right, privilege or immunity claimed
by the railroad company under a statute of the United
States, and the decision was against such right,, privilege
or immunity so claimed and specially set up by said defendant," etc. Such a certificate is- however, not sufficient to confer jurisdiction to review the judgment of a
state court under § 709, Revised Statutes. That there was
set up and denied some claim or right under the Constitution or a statute of the United States must appear upon
the record, and such a certificate is only of value to make
more definite or certain that the Federal right was definitely asserted and decided. Sayward v. Denny, 158
VOL. ccxxv-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the -Court.

225 U. S.

U. S. 180, 183; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Smith,
204 U. S' 551.
The Federal question relied upon to sustain the writ of
error to this court concerns the construction and application of the Employers' Liability Act of April 22, 1908, 35
Stat. 65, c. 149. Neither the complaint nor the answer
makes any direct reference to that act; but the complaint
did allege that the railroad. company was operating a
line of railroad between Portsmouth, Virginia, and Monroe, North Carolina,, and that the plaintiff While in its
employment as baggage-master and flagman upon a passenger train running between said points was negligently
injured by a head-on collision. This states a. ground
of action under that act and it was so assumed by the
trial court, as appears from that part of the charge relating to the effect of contributory -negligence, as well as
from some of the questions mAde in the Supreme Court of
the State.
That the collision was due to negligence was conceded.
The only defense which seems to have been made was
that under the rules of the company, the plaintiff was required to remain in the baggage car; but that he was
hurt while in the express car, a placewhere, it is claimed,
his duty did not call him, and therefore, he was not injured while employed in the service of the company, or
engaged in any duty his employment devolved upon him.
The case was submitted upon these issues, and the finding of tho jury upon each was as follows:
"1. Was the plaintiff injured by the negligence of the
defendant? Answer. Yes.
"2. 'Was the plaintiff's injury caused by'his contributory
negligence? Answer. No.
"3. What damage is the plaintiff entitled to recover?
Answer. $30,000."
Four requests for special charges, which bear upon this
defense and which were denied, have been assigned here

SEABOARD-AIR LINE RY. v. DUVALL.
225 U. S.

Opinion cf the Court.

as error reviewable by this court. They were as follows:
"1. That where an employ6 undertakes' to do something not his duty to do, the master is not negligent; and
if the jury shall find by the greater weight of the evidence
that the plaintiff was acting outside of the scope of his
employment when he was injured, they will find the first
issue 'No.'
"3. That as the plaintiff admits that he was in the
express car at the time of his injuries, and as the rules of
the receivers of the defendant (of which he admits he had
that notice) required him to remain in the baggage car,
when not engaged in flagging the train, the burden is upon
the plaintiff to satisfy the jury by the greater weight of
evidence, that when he went into said express car, and
was injured, he was engaged in the discharge of. the duties
of his employment, and if he has failed to so satisfy the
will answer the first issue 'No.'
jury,
"4. you
That unless the jury shall find by
the greater
weight of the evidence that when the plaintiff 'went into
the express car, he understood that he was going there to.
discharge some of the duties of his employment, the
defendant's negligence in causing the derailment of
said car *ould not be the proximate cause of the
plaintiff's injuries, and the jury will answer the first
issue 'No.'
"6. The admitted rules of the receivers of the defendant required the plaintiff to remain in the baggage car
when not engaged in flagging the train, and the plaintiff
had no right to go into the express car in violation of the
provisions of the said rules, unless the conductor ordered
him. to do so for the purpose of discharging some one of
the duties of his employment; and unless the jury shall
find by the greater Weight of the evidence that when the
conductor *told the plaintiff to go with him into said car,
he thereby understood that the conductor wished him to

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

go to discharge his duties as an employ6 of the defendant,
the jury will answer the first issue 'No.'"
The plaintiff in error also excepted to a part of the
court's charge which was in these words:
"If you find from the evidence that the plaintiff had
no right to go into the express car; that he was not where
he should have been; and you further find that he would
not have been injured but for his going into the express
car, and that his going into the express car was such an act
on his part that a reasonably prudent man ordinarilywould
not have done under the circumstances of the situation, then
he would be guilty of contributory negligence, and it
would be your duty to answer the second issue 'Yes.' If
you do not so find, it would be your duty to answer the
second issue 'No."'
Not one of the requests asks any definite construction
of any part of the Employers' Liability Act, or, indeed,
contains any reference whatever to the act.
They are based alone upon the admitted facts that at
the time of the collision the plaintiff was in the express
car, and that there was a rule of the company requiring
him to be in the baggage car. They assume that in being
in the express car he was where he had no right to be, and
that if injured while there the jury must acquit the company of negligence and upon that issue find for the railroad company. The requests take no account of the legal
effect of other evidence in the case. Thus, there was evidence tending to show that the express car was used for
through baggage, and that baggage was often received
from the platform into the express car, and carried to the
adjacent baggage car. There was also evidence tending
to show that the rule referred to was not enforced, and
that the baggage-master ,nd
express messenger frequently exchanged work, and that this was known to the
conductor, who made no objection. There was also evidence tending to show that both the conductor and the

SEABOARD AIR LINE RY. v. DUVALL.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff had gone to the express car, either upon the
call of the messenger or for a social purpose, the plaintiff
in either event going by direction or on invitation of
his immediate superior, the conductor of the train. Any
question as to whether his being in the express car at the
moment of the collision either contributed to the collision
or to the injury he sustained, as well as any consideration
of the question whether he was in any way negligent in
being there, as being in a place of greater danger than if in
the baggage car, was ignored.
The trial court was under no obligation to give special
charges based upon but a part of the evidence-charges
which, in effect, took from -the jury every question save
the single fact that plaintiff was, when hurt, in the express
car, and that there was a rule which required him to remain in the baggage car.
But the plaintiff in error now urges that it was entitled
to have construed that provision of the Employers' Liability Act which requires that a plaintiff to recover under it
must have been injured "while he was employed by such
carrier in such commerce," and that the requests denied
were applicable to the evidence which tended to show that
he had ceased to be such an employ6, because he was not,
at the monient of the injury, engaged in the conduct of
interstate commerce, or at the place where his duty required him to be. That the ;plaintiff was in the general
employment of an interstate railroad, and at the time was
the baggage-master of one of its trains running from one
State to another, was shown by all the evidence. If his
employment had been terminated, it was solely because
he had momentarily gone into the adjacent. express car.
If he was injured while employed about something which
it was not his duty to do, it was solely due to the fact that
he had gone into that car eitheir under direction or with
the consent of his conductor.
This case does not come here from a Federal court and

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the C6urt.

225 U. S.

we are, therefore, not a court of general review. It comes
under § 709, Rev. Stat., and the power to review a judgment of a state court is limited and defined by that provision. The sole ground upon which our jurisdiction is
invoked is found in the third. clause of the section, which
provides -that, "when any title, right, privilege or immunity is claimed under the Constitution, or any treaty or statute

.

.

.

and the decision is against the title, right,

privilege or immunity specially set up or claimed,
may be reexamined or reviewed.
This action was brought under an act of Congress. If
the act has been erroneously construed and exceptions
saved, or if a particular construction to which the party
asking was entitled, was denied, a right has been denied
under the statute, and the question may be reviewed by
this court. In St. Louis, I. M. & S. Ry. v. Taylor, 210
U. S. 281, 293, it was said:
"Where a party to litigation in a state court insists, by
way of objection to or requests for instructions, upon a construction of a statute of the United States. which will lead,
or, on possible findings of fact from the evidence may
lead, to a judgment in his-favor, and his claim in this respect, being duly set up, is denied by the highest court of
the State, then the questiort thus raised-may be reviewed
in 'this court. The plain reason is that in all such cases he
has claimed in the state court a right or immunity under
a law .of the United States and it has been denied to him.
Jurisdiction so clearly warranted by the Constitution and
so explicitly conferred by the act of Congress needs no
justification. But it may not be out of place to say that in
,no other manner can a uniform construction of the statute
laws of the United States be secured, so that they shall
have the same meaning and effect in all the States of the
Union."
That case came from a state court from a judgment
against the plaintiff in error in an action under the Safety

SEABOABD AIR LINE RY. v. DUVALL.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Appliance Act. But in that case the F'>ieral question was
specially set up and definite rulings had upon definite
questions requiring a construction of the act. Thus the
court concludes the paragraph above set out by saying
(p. 293):
"The defendant, now plaintiff in rrror, objected to an
erroneous construction of the Safety Appliance Act, which
warranted on the evidence a judgment against it, and insisted upon a correct construction of the act, which warranted on the evidence a judgment in its favor. The
denials of its claims were decisions of Federal questions
reviewable here."
It was the obvious duty of counsel, if they wished any
particular construction of the act, to put the request
in such definite terms as that the attention of the court
might be directed to the point, and the record here should
show that the right now claimed was the right "specially
set up" and denied by the court. "It must appear on the
face of the record that it was in fact raised; that the judicial
mind of the court was exercised upon it; and then a decision against the right clainmed under it." Or, at all events,
it must appear from the record that there was necessarily
present a definite issue as to the correct construction of
the act, so directly involved that the court could not have
given the judgment it did without deciding the question
against the contention of the plaintiff in error. Maxwell
v. Newbold, 18 How. 511, 515; Sayward v. Denny, 158
U. S. 180; Gillis v. Stinchfield, 159 U. S. 658; Speed v.
McCarthy, 181 U. S. 269, 275, 276; Gaar, Scott Co. v.
Shannon, 223 U. S. 468, decided at present term. In
Appleby v. Buffalo, 221 U. S. 524, 529, this court said:
"This court has had frequent occasion to say that its
right to review the judgment of the highest court of 'a
State is specifically limited by the provisions of § 709 of
the Revised Statutes of the United States. This.right of
review in cases such as the one at bar depends upon an

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

alleged denial of some right, privilege or immunity specially set up and claimed under the Constitution, or authority of the United States, which it is alleged has been
denied by the judgment of the state court. In suchcases
it is thoroughly well settled that the record of ,the state
court must disclose that the right so set up and claimed
was expressly denied, or that such was the necessary
effect, in law, of the judgment. Sayward v. Denny, 158
U. S. 180, 183; Harding v. Illinois, 196 U. S. 78; WatersPierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 212 U. S. 86, 97."
Passing now to the error assigned to a paragraph in the
general charge, the part objected to and assigned as error
is the clause italicized. It was a part of the general charge
in respect of contributory negligence. It was limited to
the separate issue submitted to the jury as to such negligence.
It is not easy to see why the mere going into the express
car would be negligent unless the conditions were such as
to be an act of imprudence which a reasonable man would
not have done. But this we pass by as pertaining to the
merits. In any event the exception did not raise any
specific question as to the proper construction of the act
under which this action had been brought.
The jury was in explicit terms told that if they found
the plaintiff guilty of contributory negligence it would
not bar a recovery, but that the damages assessed- must
be diminished in proportion to the amount of negligence
attributable to the plaintiff. This was in pursuance of the
statute. The jury specially found that the plaintiff had
not been guilty of contributory negligence.
In conclusion, we are of opinion that neither the instructions denied nor that objected to are sufficient to
raise any Federal question which this court may review.
The motion to dismiss the writ for want of jurisdiction is
therefore granted.

