JOHANNESSEN v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

225 U. S.

contains no allegation of fraud, and the silence of the
findings may rightly be taken as showing that none was
proved. The findings fully respond to the issues presented
by the pleadings, and, we think, sustain the judgment.
Judgment affirmed.

JOHANNESSEN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 230.

Submitted April 22, 1912.-Decided May 27, 1912.

Priordecisions of this court holding that a judgment of a competent
court admitting a person to citizenship is, like every other judgment,
competent evidence of its own validity, go no further than protecting the judgment from collateral attack.
Congress may authorize direct proceedings to attack certificates of
citizenship on the ground of fraud and illegality; and § 15,of the act
of June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 596, 601, c. 3592, providing for such cases,
is a valid exercise of the power of Congress under Art. I, § 8 of the
Constitution of the 'United States.
The foundation of the doctrine of res judicataor estoppel by judgment
is that both parties have had their day in court, Southern Pacific
R. R. Co. v. United States, 168 U. S. 1, 48; and where a certificate
of naturalization was issued without the Government appearing
there is no estoppel against it, nor is such a certificate conclusive
against the public.
Certificates of naturalization, like patents for land or inventions, when
issued ex parte can be annulled for fraud.
How the judicial review of a certificate of naturalization should be
conducted rests in legislative'discretion.
Quwre as to the conclusive effect of a certificate of naturalization
issued after appearance and cross-examination by the Government.
Quivre: Whether, in the absence of statute such as the act of June 29,
1906, a court of equity could set aside, or restrain the use of, a certificate of naturalization.

228

OCTOBER TERM, 1911. "
Argument for Appellant.

225 U. S.

The act of June, 29, 190e is not unconstitutional as an exercise of
judicial power by the legislative branch of the Government, nor is
it unconstitutional because retrospective
The ex post facto provision o("the Constitution is confined to laws
affecting punishment for crime and has no relation to retrospectiv&
legislation of any other description.
An alien has no legal or moral right to retain citizenship obtained
solely by fraud, and an act permitting the'cancellation of a certificate so obtained is not a punishment but simply nullifies that which
the party had no right to.

THE facts, which involve the power of the court under.
the act of June 29, 1906, c. 3592, to.cancel a certificate of
naturalization on the ground that it was fraudulently
issued, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edward J. McCutchen and Mr. Samuel Knight for
appellant:
A decree of naturalization is a judgment of a court, and,
therefore, subject to all the rules of law regarding judg-"
ments as such. Spratt v. Spratt, 4 Pet. 393; 2 Black, Judg.,
§ 804; McCarthy v. Marsh, 5 N. Y. 263; The Acorn, Fed.
Cas. No. 29; Charles Green'§ Son v. Salas, 31 Fed. Rep.
106; In re Bodek, 63 Fed. Rep. 813; Pintsch Com. Co. v.
Bergin, 84 Fed. Rep. 140; Ex parte Knowles, 5. California,
300; Tinnv. United States Dist. Atty., 148 California, 773;
Matter of Christern, 43 N. Y, Sup. Ct. 523; S. C., 11
Jones & Spencer, 523; Matter of Clark, 18 Barb. 444;
United States v. Gleason, 78 Fed. Rep. 396; 90 Fed. Rep.
778.
A court of equity will not set aside a judgment on the
ground that it is founded on a fraudulent instrument, or
perjured evidence, or for any matter which was actually
presented and considered in the judgment assailed.
United States v. Throckmorton, 98 U. S. 61; Vance v.
Burbank, 101 U. S. 514; Steel v. St. Louis Smelting &c.
Co., 106 U. S.447; Mqffat v. United-States, 112 U. S. 24;
Hilton v.Guyot, 42 Fed. Rep. 249, 252; S. C., 159 U. S. 113;

JOHANNESSEN v. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

United States v. Gleason, 78 Fed. Rep. 396; S. C., 90 Fed.
Rep. 778.
act of 1906, under which it is sought to cancel defendant's certificate of citizenship, operates as an ex
post facto law, and is, therefore, within the prohibition
of § 9 of Art. I of the Constitution of the United States.
Ex parte Garland, 4 Wall. 333; Cummings v. Missouri, 4
Wall. 277; Kring v. Missouri, 107 U. S. 221; Commonwealth v. Edwards, 39 Kentucky (9 Dana), 447; United
States v. Starr, 27'Fed. Cas. No. 16,379; Green v. Shumway, 39 N. Y. 418.
If the act of June 29, 1906, authorizes the impeachment
of the judgment of a coordinate court for fraud consisting
of the introduction of relevant perjured testimony, it is
unconstitutional as an exercise of judicial power by the
legislature. Wieland v. Shillock, 24 Minnesota, 345;
Roche v. Waters, 72 Maryland, 264; Re Handley's Estate,
15 Utah, 212; Cooley's Const. Lim., 6th ed., 111; 1 Black
on Judgments, 298; Atkinson v. Dunlap, 50 Maine, 111;
United States v. Aakervik, 180 Fed. Rep. 137; Davis v.
Menasha, 21 Wisconsin, 497; State v. Flit,61 Minnesota,
539; 63 N. W. Rep. 113.
A statute should be construed to have a prospective
operation only, unless its terms show clearly a legislative
intention'that itshould operate retrospectively. Calder
v. Bull, 3 Dall. 386; Cooley's Const. Lim. 529; 8 Cyc.
1022; 28 Am. & Eng. Ency. Law, 693.
-The

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Harr for the United
States:
The last paragraph of § 15 of the act of June 29, 1906,
expressly applies not only to certificates of citizenship
issued under the provisions of that act, but to all certificates theretofore issued by any court under prior laws.
Under §§ 2165, 2170, Rev. Stat., the continuous residence of an alien within the United States for the requisite

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for the United States.

225 U. S.

length of time was, under the old law, as \under the act of
June 29, 1906, a matter which went to the power of the
court to act. If he could not meet this requirement, the
court had no jurisdiction in the premises. The contention, therefore (based on United States v. Throckmorton,
98 U. S. 61), that if, as in the present case, a court was
induced to naturalize an alien by a misrepresentation of
the facts as to his residence, Congress has no authority
to authorize a judicial proceeding for the cancellation of
his certificate of naturalization so obtained, is manifestly
untenable. It amounts to saying that one could "by fraud
confer jurisdiction upon the courts to do that which Congress had expressly withheld from them, and which they
had no power to do except by virtue of authority from
Congress. United States v. Throckmorton, 98 U. S. 61, 68.
But even if Congress has no greater power to authorize
proceedings to cancel a judgment of naturalization than
is possessed by a court of equity with respect to ordinary
judgments or decrees the Throckmorton Case is inapplicable, because that case has reference only to proceedings
inter partes, and has no application to ex parte proceedings
by which a grant is obtained from the Government.
Moffatt v. United States, 112 U. S. 24, 32; United States v.
Minor, 114 U. S. 233; United States v. Am. Bell Telephone
Co., 128 U. S. 315; Hilton v. Guyot, 159 U. S. 207; United
States v. Am. Bell Telephone Co., 167 U. S. 224, 240.
A naturalization proceeding (at least prior to the act
of June 29, 1906, § 11, which gives the Government the
right to be heard therein) was entirely ex parte. There
was no contest by the Government, and no adversary
proceedings. It was therefore similar in all substantial
respects to an application to the Government for a patent
for land.
Prior to the act of June 29, 1906, the power of the.
Federal court to cancel a certificate of naturalization obtained by fraud was recognized.. In re McCoppin, 5

JOHANNESSEN v. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

Saw. 630, 632; United States v. Norsch, 42 Fed. Rep.
417.
The constitutionality of the act ,of June 29, 1906, and
the jurisdiction of the United States courts thereunder
to cancel a certificate of naturalization, whether issued
by a state or Federal court, where it appears that the
certificate has been procured without compliance with
the requirement of the law as to residence in the United
States, has been sustained in the following cases: United
States v. Nisbet, 168 Fed. Rep. 1005; United States v.
Mansour, 170 Fed. Rep. 671; United States v. Simon, 170
Fed. Rep. 680; United States v. Meyer, 170 Fed. Rep. 983;
United States v. Spohrer, 175 Fed. Rep. 440; United States
v. Luria, 184 Fed. Rep. 643.
Appellant must rest entirely upon United States v.
Gleason, 78 Fed. Rep. 396, affirmed, 90 Fed. Rep. 778,
Judge-Wallace dissenting.
In Campbell v. Gordon, 6 Cranch, 176, and Spratt v.
Spratt, 4 Pet. 392, on which that decision was based held
merely that a judgment of naturalization could not be
collaterally attacked. Here, the issue is whether the
Government, which made the grant, can authorize a
direct proceeding for the purpose of having it set aside
for fraud. See 3 Moore, Int. Law Dig. 500.
The view that naturalization is a judicial act because
it is done by judges (United States v. Dolla, 177 Fed. Rep.
101, 105), rather thanbecause of the nature of the, act,
is apparent when the nature of the act is analyzed, and is
confirmed by the fact that in most countries it is performed by administrative officers. In England naturaliza'tion is conferred upon application to one of the principal
secretaries of state; in France,' by the Pre:3ident of the
Republic; in Russia, by the minister of th, interior; in
Prussia, by the police authorities; in Norway, by the
Storthing;' in Turkey, by the minister of foreign affairs;
and by the chief executive authority in all otler European

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

countries. (Report to the President of the Commission
on Naturalization, H. Doc. No. 46, 59th Cong., 1st sess.,
p. 18.)
Naturalization under our Constitution is in all substantial respects like a patent for land or for an invention-an act of grace on the part of the Government,
conditioned upon compliance with certain express requirements. In neither the one case not the other can
fraud or misrepresentation as to the existence of the
requisite conditions give the grantee an indefeasible right
to the grant as against the Government. See Wallace v.
Adams, 204 U. S. 415.
The contention that § 15 of the act of June 29, 1906,
is an ex post facto law hardly merits serious consideration.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a proceeding under § 15 of the act of June 29,
1906, c. 3592, 34 Stat. 596, 601, instituted by the district
attorney of the United States for the Northern District
of California, to cancel a, certificate of citizenship, granted
to the appellant by a state court long prior to the passage
of the act referred to, on the ground that it had been
fraudulently and illegally -procured. The case was heard
upon demurrer to an amended petition, which demurrer.
was overruled; and thereupon, no answer being filed, the
court proceeded to make a decree setting aside and canceling the certificate. The appellant brings that decree
here for review.
The facts, as set forth in the amended petition and admitted by the demurrer, are as follows: Johannessen, the
appellant, is a native of Norway, and arrived in the
United States for the first time in the month of December, 1888. Less than four years thereafter, and on October 6, 1892, he applied to the Superior Court of Jefferson
County, in the State of Washington, under § 2165 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States, to be admitted to

JOHANNESSEN v. (NITED STATES.
225 U. S.

Opinion cf the Court.

citizenship, and procured. from that court a, certificate
admitting him to such citizenship. This certificate was
based upon the perjured testimony of two witnesses, to'
the effect that Johannessen had resided within the limits
and under the jurisdiction of'the United States for five
years at least then last past. The facts were not discovered by the Government until June 29, 1908, when
Johannessen made a voluntary statement to the Department of Justice in the form of an affidavit, which is made
a part of the amended petition, and wherein- he admits
that the certificate of citizenship was illegally procured,
in that he had not been a resident of the United States
for five years at the time it was issued.
The petition contains all necessary avermers- to show
the jurisdiction of the District Court over the present
action, leaving only the merits in controversy.
The provisions of law in force at the time Johannessen
thus applied for and procured admission to citizenship
are contained in §§ 2165 and 2170 of the Revised Statutes,
which, so far as pertinent, are as follows:
"SEG. 2165. An alien may be admitted to become a
citizen of the United States in the following manner, and
not otherwise:
"First. He shall declare on oath, before a circuit or
district court of -theUnited States, or a district or supreme
court of the Territories, or a court of record of any of the
States having common-law Jurisdiction, and a seal' and
clerk, two years, at least, prior to his admission, that it is
bona fide his ihtention to become a citizen of the United
States,: and to renounce forever all allegiance and fidelity
to any foreign prince, potentate, state, or sovereignty,
and, particularly, by'name, to the prince, potentate, state,
or sovereignty of which the alien may be at the time a
6itizgn or subject.
"Second. He -shall, at the time of his application to
be admitted, declare, on oath, before some one of the

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1911
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

courts above specified, that he will support the Constitution of the United States, and that he absolutely and
entirely renounces and abjures all allegiance and fidelity
to every foreign prince, potentate, state, or sovereignty;
and, particularly, by name, to the prince, potentate, state,
or sovereignty of which he was before a citizen or subject;
which proceedings shall be recorded by the clerk of the
court.
"Third. It shall be made to appear to the satisfaction
of the court admitting such alien that he has resided
within the United States five years at least, and within
the State or Territory where such court is at the time
held, one year at least; and that during that time he has
behaved as a man of a good moral character, attached to
the principles of the Constitution of the United States,
and well disposed to the good order and happiness of the
same; but the oath of the applicant shall in no case be
allowed to prove his residence."
/
*
*
*
*
*

*

*

*

"SEC. 2170. No alien shall be admitted to become a
citizen who has not for the continued term of five years
next preceding his admission resided within the United
States."
The act of June 29, 1906, contains a revision of the
naturalization laws, together with some additional provisions, among which are the following:
"SEC. 15. That it shall be the duty of the United
States district attorneys for the respective districts, upon
affidavit showing good cause therefor, to institute proceedings in any court having jurisdiction to naturalize
aliens in the judicial district in which the naturalized
citizen may reside at the time of bringing the suit, for the
purpose of setting aside and caniceling the certificate of
citizenship on the ground of fraud or on the ground that
such certificate of citizenship was illegally procured. In
any such proceedings the party holding the certificate of

JOHANNESSEN v. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

citizenship alleged to have been fraudulently or illegally
procured shall have sixty days personal notice in which to
make answer to the petition of the United States; and if
the holder of such certificate be absent from the United
States or from the district in which, he last had his residence, such notice shall be given by publication in the
manner provided for the service of summons by publication or upon absentees by the laws of the State or the
1lace where such suit is brought.
*

*

*,

.,

*

*

*

*

"Whenever any certificate of citizenship shall be set
aside or canceled, as herein provided, the court in which
such judgment or decrce is rendered shall make an order
canceling such certificate of citizenship and shall send a
certified copy of such order to the Bureau of Immigration
and Naturalization; and in case such certificate was not
originally issued by the court making such order it shall
direct-the clerk of the court to transmit a copy of such
order and judgment to the court out of which such certificate of citizenship shall have been originally issued.
And it shall thereupon be the duty of the clerk of the
court receiving such certified copy of the order and judgment of the court to enter the sane of record and to cancel
such original certificate of citizenship upon, the records
and to notify the Bureau of Immigration and Naturalization of such cancellation.
"The provisions of this section shall apply not only to
certificates of citizenship issued under the provisions of
this Act, but to all certificates of citizenship which may
have been issued heretofore by any court exercising jurisdiction in naturalization proceedings under prior laws."
The principal contentions in the argument for appellant
are, that a decree of naturalization is a judgment of a
competent court and subject to all the rules of law regarding judgments as such; that a court of equity could not,
prior to June 29, 1906, set aside or annul such a judgment

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

for fraud intrinsic the record, that is, founded upon
perjured testimony, or any matter which was actually
presented and considered in giving the judgment; and
that if the act of June 29, 1906, authorizes the impeach-'
ment of the preexisting judgment of a co6rdinate court
for fraud consisting of the introduction of relevant perjured testimony, it is unconstitutional as an exercise of
judicial power by the legislature.
It was long ago held in this court, in a case arising upon
the early acts of Congress which submitted to courts of
record the right of aliens to admission as citizens, that the
judgment of such a court upon the question was, like
every other- judgment, complete evidence of its own
validity. Spratt v. Spratt, 4 Pet. 393, 408. This decision,
howeverf goes no further than to establish the immunity
of such a judgment from collateral attack. See also
Campbell v. Gordon, 6 Cranch, 176.
It does not follow that Congress may not authorize a
direct attack upon certificates of citizenship in an independent proceeding such as is authorized by § 15 of the
act of 1906. Appellant's contention involves the notion
that because the naturalization, proceedings result in a
judgment, the United States is for all purposes concluded
thereby, even in the case of fraud or illegality for which
the applicant for naturalization is responsible. This
question may be first disposed of.
The Constitution, Art. I, '§ 8, gives to Congress power
"to establish an uniform Rule of Naturalization." Pursuant to this authority it was enacted, as above quoted
from the Revised Statutes, that an 'alien might be admitted to citizenship "in the following manner and not
otherwise "; § 2165 requiring_ proof. of residence within
the United States for five years at least; and § 2170 declaring a. continued term of five years' residence next
preceding his admission to be essential. An examination
of this legislation makes it plain that while a proceeding

JOHANNESSEN v. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S..

Opinion of the Court..

for the naturalization of an alien is in a certain sense a
judicial proceeding, being conducted in a court of record
and made a matter of record therein, yet it is not in any
sense an adversary proceeding. It is the alien who applies
to be admitted, who makes the necessary declaration and
adduces the requisite proofs, and who renounces and
abjures his foreign allegiance, all as conditions precedent
to his admission to citizenship of the United States. He
seeks political rights to which he is not entitled except on
compliance with the requirements of the act. But he is
not required to make the Govjernment a party nor to give
any notice to its representatives.
The act of June 29, 1906, in § 11 (34 Stat. 599), declares
that the United States shall have the right to appear
in naturalization proceedings for the purpose of crossexamining the petitioner and the witnesses produced in
support of his petition, and shall have the right- to call
witnesses, produce evidence, and be heard in opposition
to the granting of naturalization. No such provision was
contained in the act as it formerly stood. For present
purposes we assume, however, that the Government had
such an interest as entitled it, even without express enactment, to raise an issue upon an alien's application for admission to the privileges of citizenship. What may be the
effect of a judgment allowing; naturalization in a case
where the Government has appeared and litigated the
matter does not now concern us. (See 2 Black, Judgts.,
§ 534, a.) What we have to say relates to such a case as
is presented by the present. record, which is the ordinary
case of an alien appearing before one of the courts designated by law for the purpose, and, without notice to the
Government and without opportunity, to say nothing of
duty, on the part of the Government to appear, submitting
his application for naturalization with ex parte proofs in
support thereof, and thus procuring a certificate of citizenship. In view of the great numbers of aliens thus

238

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

applying at irregular times in the various courts of record
of the several States and in the Federal Circuit and District Courts throughout the Union, and bringing their
applications on to summary hearing without previous
notice to the Government of the United States or to the
public, it is of course impossible that the public interests
should be adequately represented, and in our opinion the
sections quoted from the Revised Statutes are not open to
any construction that would give a conclusive effect to
such an investigation when conducted at the instance of
and controlled by the interested individual alone.
The foundation of the doctrine of res judicata, or es,toppel by judgment, is that both parties have had their
day in court. 2 Black, Judgts., §§ 500, 504. The general
principle was clearly expressed by Mr. Justice Harlan,
speaking for this court in Southern Pacific R. Co. v,United
States, 168U. S. 1, 48:
"That a right, question or fact distinctly put in issue
and directly determined by a court of competent jurisdiction, as a ground of recovery, cannot be disputed in a subsequent suit between the same parties or their privies."
Sound reason, as we think, constrains us to deny to a
certificate of naturalization, procured ex parte in the ordinary way, any conclusive effect as against the public.
Such a certificate, including the "judgment" upon which
it is based, is in its essence an instrument granting political
privileges, and open like other public grants to be revoked
if and when it shall be found to have been unlawfully or
fraudulently procured. It is in this respect closely analogous to a public grant of land (Rev. Stat., § 2289, etc.),
or of the exclusive right to make, use and vend a new and
useful invention (Rev. Stat., § 4883, etc.).
Judicial review of letters patent, looking to their cancellation when issued unlawfully or through mistake or
when procured by fraud, is very ancient possibly antedating the establishment of the court of equity in England.

JOHANNESSEN v. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

239-

Opinion of the Court.

3 Black. Com. 47, 48. As pointed out by Mr. Justice
Grier, speaking for this court in United States v. Stone, 2
Wall. 525, 535; the original mode was by writ of scire
facias, the bill in equity being afterwards adopted as a
more convenient remedy. In United States v. San Jacinto
Tin Co., 125 U. S. 273, 281; previous cases were reviewed
and the practice discussed. In United States v. Beebe, 127
U. S. 338, 342; Mr. Justice Lamar, speaking for this court,
said: "It may now be accepted as settled that the United
States can properly proceed by bill in equity to have a
judicial decree of nullity, and An order of cancellation of
a patent issued in miistake or obtained by fraud, where
the Government. has a direct interest, or is under an obliga-

tion respecting the relief invoked." See also Noble v.
Union River Logging R. R. Co., 147 U. S. 165, 175, and
cases cited.
United States v. Throckmorton, 98 U. S. 61, is not opposed in principle, for, as pointed out in United States v.
Minor, 114 U. S. 233, 241, the patent was issued on the
confirmation of a Mexican grant after judicial proceedings,
where there were pleadings and parties, and witnesses
were examined on both sides, with the right to appeal.
Vance v. Burbank, 101 U. S. 514, 519, was likewise a
contested case in the Land ]Department, as the report
shows.
The doctrine that a patent issued ex parte may be annulled for fraud has been repeatedly applied to patents for
inventions. United States v. Bell Telephone Co., 128 U. S.
315; 361; Same v. Same, 167 U. S. 224, 238.
Whether the judicial review of a certificate of naturalization should be conducted in one i,ode or another is a
matter plainly resting in legislative discretion. Section 15
of the act of June 29, 1906 (34 Stat. 601), provides for a
proceeding in a "court having jurisdiction to nturalize
aliens in the judicial district in which the naturalized citizen may reside at, the time of bringing the suit;" upon fair

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

notice to the party holding the certificate of citizenship
that is under attack. No criticism is made of this mode of
procedure.
The views above expressed render it unnecessary for us,
to go into the question whether on general principles and
without express legislative authority, a court of equity, at
the instance of the Government, might set aside a certificate of citizenship or restrain its use, for fraud or the like.
In United States v. Norsch, 42 Fed. Rep. 417, it was declared that the Government could sue in a Federal court
for the cancellation of a certificate that had been procured
by fraud in a state court, but it was held that the facts set
forth in the bill did not make out a sufficient case of fraud.
In United States v. Gleason, 78 Fed. Rep. 396, 90 Fed. Rep.
778, the contrary conclusion was reached upon the main
question. These two cases arose prior to the act of
1906.
Since the passage of that act, the district courts have
quite generally sustained the action for a cancellation of
fraudulent certificates. United States v. Nisbet,,168 Fed.
Rep. 1005; United States v. Simon, 170 Fed. Rep. 680;
United States v. Mansour, 170 Fed. Rep. 671; United
States v. Meyer, 170 Fed. Rep. 983;,United States v. Luria,
184 Fed. Rep. 643; United States v. Spohrer, 175 Fed. Rep.
440. In the latter case Judge Cross used the following pertinent language (at p. 442): "An alien friend is offered under certain conditions the privilege of citizenship. He may
accept the offer and become a citizen upon compliance
with the prescribed conditions, but not otherwise. His
claim is of favor, not of right. He can only become a
citizen upon and after a strict compliance with the acts of
Congress. An applicant for this high privilege is bound,
therefore, to conform to the terms upon which alone the
right he seeks can be conferred. It is his province, and he
is bound, to see that the jurisdictional facts upon which
the grant is predicated actually exist, and if they do not

JOHANNESSEN v. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

he takes nothing by his paper grant. Fraud cannot be
substituted for facts." And again, at.p. 446: "That the
government, especially when thereunto authorized by
Congress, has fhe right to recall whatever of property
has been taken from it by fraud, is, in my judgment, well
settled, and, if that be true of property, then by analogy
and with greater reason it would seem to be true where it
has conferred a privilege in answer to the prayer of an ex
parte petitioner."
The contention that the act of June. 29, 1906, in authorizing the impeachment of certificates of naturalization
theretofore issued for fraud consisting of the introduction
of perjured testimony, is unconstitutional as an exercise of
judicial power by the legislative department,,is in effect
disposed of by what has been. said. The act does not purport to deprive a litigant of the fruits of a successful
controversy in the courts; for, as already shown, the proceedings for naturalization are not in any proper sense adversary proceedings, but are ex parte and 'conducted by
the applicant for his own benefit. The act: in effect provides for a new form of judicial review of a question that is
in form,, but not in substance, concluded by the previous
record, and under conditions affording to the party whose
rights are brought into question full opportunity to be
heard. Retrospective acts of this character have often
been held not to be an assumption by the legislative department of judicial powers. Sampeyreac v. United States,
7 Pet. 222, 239; Freeborn 1, Smith, 2 Wall. 160, 175;
Garrison v. New York, 21 Wall. 196,. 202; Freeland v.
Williams, 131 U. S. 405, 413; Stephens v. Cherokee Nation,
174 U. S. 445, 478.
. An alien has no moral nor constitutional right to retain
the privileges .of citizenship if, by false evidence or the
like, an imposition has been practiced upon tle court,
without which the certificate of citizenship could not
and would not have been issued. As was well said by
VOL. CCXXV--16

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

Chief Justice Parker in Foster v. Essex Bank, 16 Massachusetts, 245, 273, "there is no such thing as a vested
right to do wrong."
The remaining points taken by the appellant may be
briefly disposed of. One is that the provisions of § 15 of
the act of 1906 are not retrospective. This is refuted by
a reading of the closing paragraph of the section. Finally
it is insisted that, if retrospective in form, the section is
void, as an ex post facto law within the prohibition of
Art. I, § 9 of the Constitution. It is, however, settled
that this prohibition is confined to laws respecting criminal punishments, and has no relation to retrospective
legislation of any other description. Cooley's Const.
Lim. (6th ed.), 319; Calder v. Bull, 3 Dall. 386, 390; and
Rose's Note thereon. The act imposes no punishment
upon an alien who has previously procured a certificate of
citizenship by fraud or other illegal conduct. It simply
deprives him of his ill-gotten lrivileges. We do not question that an act of legislation having the effect to deprive
a citizen of his right to vote because of something in his
past conduct which was not an offense at the time it
was committed would be void as an ex post facto law.
Cummings v. Missouri, 4 Wall. 277, 321; Ex parte Garland,
4 Wall. 333, 378. But the act under consideration inflicts
no such punishment, nor any punishment, upon a lawful
citizen. It merely provides that, on good cause shown, the
question whether one who claims the privileges of citizenship under the certificate of a court has procured that
certificate through fraud or other illegal contrivance, shall
be exanined and determined in orderly judicial proceedings. The act makes nothing fraudulent or unlawful that
was- honest and lawful when it was done. It imposes no
new penalty upon the wrongdoer. But if, after fair hearing, it is judicially determined that by wrongful conduct
he has obtained a title to citizenship, the act provides that
he shall be deprived of a privilege that was never right-

DARNELL v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. R.
Counsci for Parties.

225 U. S.

fully his. Such a statute is not to be deemed an ex 'post
facto law.
The decree under review should be
Affirmed.

R. J. DARNELL (INCORPORATED) v. ILLINOIS
CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.

No. 887.

1912.-Decided June 7, 1912.
Submitted April .1,

Under § 5 of the act of 1891, the jurisdiction of the Federal court as
such must be involved. The direct writ will not lieif the question
is one which might arise in a court of general jurisdiction, such as
insufficiency of the pleadings.
Under the act of June 18, 1910, 36 Stat. 539, 554, c. 309, the state
courts as well as the appropriate 'Federal courts can take cognizance
of a claim basid on an award of reparation of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Whether plaintiff's declaration in a case for reparation for excessive
rates is sufficient without an averment of previous action by the
Interstate Commerce' Commission is a question which Would arise
in any court, state or Federal, in which the case was brought and
does not go to the jurisdiction of the Federal court as such; a direct
writ of error therefore will not lie from this court under § 5 of the
Court of Appeals Act of 1891.
Writ of error from 190 Fed. Rep. 656, dismissed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of § 5 of the
act of 1891 and direct appeals thereunder to this court,
are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles N. Burch and Mr. Blewett Lee for defendants
in error, in support of the motion.
Mr. W. A. Percy, for plaintiff, in error, in opposition
thereto.

