UNITED STATES v. COLORADO ANTHRACITE CO. 219
225 U. S.

Syllabus.

contingent liability of the indemnitor banks to the complainant, and an injunction against the prosecution of the
actions against it in Pennsylvania, and against the institution of other like actions, must fall with the rest of the bill.
They were brought into it in a secondary and dependent
way, and could not then have been made the subjects. of
a separate bill in that jurisdiction. Further discussion of
them is therefore unnecessary.

The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. COLORADO ANTHRACITE CO.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 227. Argued April 25, 1912.-Decided May 27, 1912.
An assign within the meaniig of § 2 of the act of June 16, 1880, 21
Stat. 287, c. 244, is one who becomes invested with the entryman's
right in the land through the voluntary act of the latter.
While a mere quitclaim deed does not pass after acquired title, the
equitable title of one who was also trustee to acquire the title for the
grantee will pass by such a deed.
Equity usually looks upon that as done which ought to have been
done. The act of June 16, 1880, proceeds upon equitable, principles
and should be administered accordingly.
A remedial statute, such as § 2 of the act of June 16, 1880, should be
interpreted with appropriate regard to the spirit which prompted
It; and that act is therefore construed so as to return money erroneously paid for an entry that cannot be confirmed to the party entitled to receive it.
One for whom an entryman initiates and obtains an allowance for an
entry, and to whom the' entryman gives a quitclaim deed is an
assign within the meaning of § 2 of the act of June 16, 1880, and
entitled to recover the purchase price if the entry cannot be confirmed, provided the arrangement was not forbidden by law.
Under § 2 of the act of June 16, 188), the assign of an entryman can-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225-U. S.

not recover the purchase price paid if there was any. fraud practiced
by it in connection with the entry; an entry fraudulently obtained is
not one erroneously allowed.
Under §§ 2347-2352, Rev. Stat., providing for coal-land entries, one
cannot enter for another who has had the full benefit of the law;
but, in the absence of evasion of restrictions as to quantity, there
is no prohibition, express or implied, against an entry by a qualified
person for the benefit of another person fully qualified to make the
entry in his, or, if a corporation, in its, own name.
A corporation is an association of persons within the meaning of the
coal-land entry provisions of §§ 2347-2352, Rev. Stat.
Where it does not appear that a corporation had previously entered
its full amount of coal lands under §§ 2347-2352, Rev. Stat., ah
entry made on its behalf by a qualified entryinan is not illegal;
and an affidavit that the latter was not making the entry for another,
the falsity of which is disclosed on a contest, becomes harmless and
does not affect the right of the entryman or his assign to recover the
price paid under § 2 of the act of June 16, 1880.
The rule that fraud is not presumed and that one basing his defense
thereon should prove it, applies to the Government; and if the
answer contains no allegation of fraud, silence in the findings of the
court below will be taken as showing that none was proved, and'an
affirmative finding that there was no fraud is not necessary to
sustain the judgment.
45 Ct. Cl. 614, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of an entry for coal
land under § 2348, Rev. Stat., and the right of an assign of
the entryman to recover the amount paid to the United
States, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General John Q. Thompson for
the United States.
Mr. Charles A. Keigwin, with whom Mr. E. W. Spald-

ing was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the court.
This was an action, under the act of June 16, 1880, 21
Stat. 287, c. 244, § 2, for the repayment of the purchase

UNITED STATES v. COLORADO ANTHRACITE CO. 221
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

price paid to the Government for 160 acres of public coal
lands, the entry of' which was subsequently canceled. The
plaintiff prevailed in the Court of Claims, 45 C. Cl. 614,
and the Government has appealed, claiming that on the
findings the judgment should have been in its favor.
Briefly stated, the material facts shown by the findings
are as follows: One Stoiber, who claimed a preference right
of entry under Rev. Stat., § 2348, filed in the proper local
land office the requisite declaratory statement, and thereafter made application to enter the land. Accompanying
the application was an affidavit, made by his agent, stating
that Stoiber. was making the entry for his own use and
benefit, and not directly or indirectly for another. Other
applications for the same land. resulted in a contest proceeding before 'the local land office, and after the hearing
therein the register and receiver sustained Stoiber's application, accepted the purchase price of the land, which
was $3,200, and issued to him the usual duplicate receipt.
This, in the nomenclature of the public-land laws, was the
allowance of an entry. The other parties to the contest
appealed to the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
who, upon the same evidence that Was submitted to the
local office, ruled that Stoiber's application ought not
to have been sustained; that his entry had been erroneously allowed and could not be confirmed, and therefore
that it must be canceled. That decision was affirmed by
the Secretary of the Interior, and the entry was canceled
accordingly. In filing the declaratory statement and making the entry Stoiber was not seeking to acquire the land
for himself but for the Colorado Anthracite Company, the
plaintiff here, to which he already had given a quitclaim
deed. This was not denied or concealed at the hearing in
the contest, but, on the contrary, was admitted and was
affirmatively shown by the testimony of the witnesses for
Stoiber, including the agent who made the affidavit before
mentioned. The purchase price paid at the time of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

entry, which was after the hearing, was furnished by the
company because the entry was being made for its benefit.
No conveyance of the land was made by Stoiber other
than the quitclaim deed just mentioned, and the purchase
money so paid was covered into the Treasury and is still
held by the Government. After the cancellation of the
entry the company applied to the Secretary of the Interior
for repayment to it of the purchase price, and Stoiber and
the company executed a relinquishment of all claims to the
land and surrendered the duplicate receipt; but the application was denied on the theory that the company was not
an assign of the entryman within the meaning of the act.
Stoiber then applied to the Secretary for repayment, and,
the application being refused, brought suit in the Court of
Claims, which gave judgment for the Government on the
ground that the purchase price had been paid by the company and not by Stoiber. 41 Ct. Cl. 269, 275. Thereupon
the company brought the present suit, with the result
before stated.
As reasons for asking a reversal of the judgment the
Government contends that the facts as found disclose,
first, that the company is not an assign within themeaning
of the act, and, second, that the entry was procured
fraudulently, in contravention of the coal-land laws, and
therefore that repayment cannot be allowed.
The act of 1880, in § 2, provides that where, from any
cause, an entry of public land "has been erroneously allowed and cannot be confirmed," and is duly canceled by
the Commissioner of the General Land Office, "the Secretary of the Interior shall cause to be repaid to the person
who made such entry,.or to his heirs or assigns, the fees and
commissions, amount of purchase money, and excesses
paid upon the same upon the surrender of the duplicate
receipt and the execution of a proper relinquishment of
all claims to said land."
As we think'Stoiber is the person who made the entry in

UNITED STATES v. COLORADO ANTHRACITE CO. 223
225-U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the sense of this act, even although he made it for the
benefit of the company and paid the purchase price with
money furnished by it, we come at once to the question,
whether on the findings the company is his assign within
the meaning of the act. It is said that the answer must
be in the negative, because there was no conveyance of
the land from him to the company while the entry was in
force, that- is, after its allowance and before its cancellation. By the decisions of this court in Hoffeld v. United
States, 186 U. S. 273, and United States v. Commonwealth
Title Insurance & Trust Co., 193 U. S. 651, it is settled
that an assign, within the meaning of the act, is one who
becomes invested with the entryman's right in the land
through some voluntary act of his; and it must be conceded
that, generally speaking, a mere quitclaim deed passes
only such interest as the grantor possesses at the time and
does not reach an after-acquired title. But here there was
something more than a mere quitclaim deed, executed in
advance of the acquisition of any interest by the entryman.
The entry was made at the instance of the company, with
its money and for its benefit, and, unless the coal-land law
forbade it, the entryman, by his voluntary action in that
regard, became a trustee for the company and charged
with an obligation to convey the land to it. Irvine v.
Marshall, 20 How. 558; Ducie v. Ford, -138 U. S. 587, 592;
Smithsonian Institution v. Meech, 169 U. S. 398, 406. Not
only so, but equity, which usually looks upon that as done
which ought to have been done, would regard such a
conveyance as actually made, and therefore treat the
company as an assign. We speak of the view which equity
would take of the matter, because it is manifest that the
act of 1880 proceeds upon equitable principles and is intended to be administered accordingly. Like other highly
remedial, statutes, it should be interpreted with appropriate regard to the spirit which prompted it. And, when
it is so interpreted, we think the term "assigns" includes

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

one in the company's situation, if only the arrangement
between it and Stoiber was not forbidden by law.
We are thus brought to the question, whether the facts
found disclose that Stoiber and the company were engaged
in an effort to acquire the land fraudulently, in contravention of the coal-land law, Rev. Stat., §§ 2347-2352.
If they were, the company is not entitled to repayment,
first, because it then would not be entitled to invoke the
equitable maxim before stated, without the aid of which
it could not be deemed an assign within the meaning of
the act, and, second, because the right to repayment is
restricted by the act .to instances in which the entry has
been "erroneously allowed," an expression which denotes
some mistake or error on the part of the land officers
wherel an entry is allowed when it should be disallowed,
and not some fraud or false pretense practiced on them
whereby an applicant appears to be entitled to the allowance ofan entry'when in truth he is not, Of this expression it is said, correctly, we think, in the regulations of
the Land Department adopted under § 4 of the act soon
after its enactment and ever since in force:
"This cannot be given an interpretation of such latitude
as would countenance fraud. If the records of the Land
Office, or the proofs furnished, should show that the entry
ought not to be permitted, and yet it were permitted, then
it would be 'erroneously allowed.' But if a tract of land
were subject to entry, and the proofs showed a compliance
with law, and the entry should be canceled because the
proofs were shown to be false, it could not be held that
the entry was 'erroneously allowed;' and in such case repayment would not be authorized."
While the coal-land law does not expressly prohibit an
entry by one person for the benefit of another, it does
limit the quantity of land that may be acquired thereunder by one person to 160 acres, and the quantity that
may be acquired by an association ofipersons to 320 acres

UNITED STATES v. COLORADO ANTHRACITE CO. 225
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and, in exceptional instances, 640 acres; and it declares
that its sections" shall be held to authorize only one entry
by the same person or association of persons; and no
association of persons any member of which shall have
taken the benefit of such sections, either as an individual
or as a member of any other association, shall enter or
hold any other lands under the provisions thereof; and no
member of any association which shall have taken the
benefit of such sections shall enter or hold any other lands
under their provisions." These restrictions, as this court
has held, forbid individuals and associations from acquiring public coal land in excess of the quantities prescribed,
whether directly by entries in their own names or indirectly by entries made for their benefit in the names of
others. And so, one person cannot lawfully make an
entry in the interest of another who has had the benefit
of the law, or in the interest of an association where it or
any of its members has had the benefit thereof, or in the
interest of a person or an association where he or it has
not had such benefit but is seeking, through entries made
or to be made by others in his or its interest, to acquire a
greater quantity of land than'is permitted by the law.
United States v,Trinidad Coal and Coking Co., 137 U. S.
160; United States v. Keitel, 211 U. S. 370; United States
v. Forrester, 211 U. S. 399; United States v. Munday, 222
U. S. 175. But there is no prohibition, express or implied,
against an entry by a qualified person for the benefit of
another person or association where he or it is fully
qualified to make the entry in his or its own name, and is
not seeking to evade the restrictions in respect of quantity.
A corporation is an association of persons within the
meaning of the law, United States v. Trinidad Coal and
Coking Co., supra, and therefore the company here, which
was a Colorado corporation, lawfully could have made
the entry in question in its own name, unless it or some
member of it had had the benefit of the coal-land law or
VoL. Ccxxv--15

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

was seeking, through this and other like entries,. to acquire
coal land in excess of the quantity prescribed. In other
words, the fact that the entry was made in the name of
Stoiber for the benefit of the company does not, without
more, establish that it was forbidden or fraudulent. There
is, no finding that the company or any member of it had
had the benefit of the law or was seeking to acquire more
than this 160 acres. So, fdr aught that appears, there was
no legal obstacle to the entry being made in the company's name, and- the. fact that it was not may have been
due to matters not affecting its validity or integrity. We
do not overlook the finding that the application was
accompanied by an affidavit stating that Stoiber was
making the entry for his own use and benefit, and not
directly or indirectly for another. Of course, the other
findings show that that statement was untrue. Had it
remained uncorrected it probably would have deceived
the officers of the land office and prevented any inquiry
into the qualifications of the company. But, according
to the findings, it did not remain uncorrected, and could
not have deceived the officers, for at the hearing in the
contest, which preceded the allowance of the entry, it was
admitted and shown that Stoiber was not seeking to
acquire the land for himself; but for the company, to
which he alreadcy had given a quitclaim deed. The statement in the affidavit therefore became harmless, for it was
upon the evidence given in the contest that the entry was
allowed. It follows that upon the findings it cannot be
said that the arrangement between Stoiber and the company was forbidden by law or that the entry was fraudulently procured.
But it is said that an affirmative finding that the entry
was not fraudulently procured is essential to sustain the
judgment. To this we cannot agree. Fraud is not presumed, and one who bases a right or defense upon it
should allege and prove it. The Government's answer

JOHANNESSEN v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

225 U. S.

contains no allegation of fraud, and the silence of the
findings may rightly be taken as showing that none was
proved. The findings fully respond to the issues presented
by the pleadings, and, we think, sustain the judgment.
Judgment affirmed.

JOHANNESSEN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 230.

Submitted April 22, 1912.-Decided May 27, 1912.

Priordecisions of this court holding that a judgment of a competent
court admitting a person to citizenship is, like every other judgment,
competent evidence of its own validity, go no further than protecting the judgment from collateral attack.
Congress may authorize direct proceedings to attack certificates of
citizenship on the ground of fraud and illegality; and § 15,of the act
of June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 596, 601, c. 3592, providing for such cases,
is a valid exercise of the power of Congress under Art. I, § 8 of the
Constitution of the 'United States.
The foundation of the doctrine of res judicataor estoppel by judgment
is that both parties have had their day in court, Southern Pacific
R. R. Co. v. United States, 168 U. S. 1, 48; and where a certificate
of naturalization was issued without the Government appearing
there is no estoppel against it, nor is such a certificate conclusive
against the public.
Certificates of naturalization, like patents for land or inventions, when
issued ex parte can be annulled for fraud.
How the judicial review of a certificate of naturalization should be
conducted rests in legislative'discretion.
Quwre as to the conclusive effect of a certificate of naturalization
issued after appearance and cross-examination by the Government.
Quivre: Whether, in the absence of statute such as the act of June 29,
1906, a court of equity could set aside, or restrain the use of, a certificate of naturalization.

