BIGELOW v. OLD DOMINION COPPER-CO.
225 U. S.

111

Syllabus.

of the character here in question is only within the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission when
it is a transportation partly by railroad and partly by
water when both are used under a common control,
management, or arrangement for a continuous carriage
or shipment; and therefore that the subject-matter in
question is left within the state jurisdiction. On the other
hand, it is contended that this transportation iswithin
the jurisdiction of the Comminssion under the Act to Regulate Commerce. It is enough to now hold,. as we do, that
the establishing of the rate in question is an attempt to
regulate interstate commerce and is therefore beyond the
power of the State or a commission assuming to act under
its authority.
We therefore reach the conclusion that under the facts
shown in this case the Railroad Commission, in fixing the
rate of seventy cents for the transportation above described, attempted to directly regulate and- control interstate commerce, and, for that reason, the enforcement of
its order should be enjoined.
Decree affirmed.

BIGELOW v. OLD DOMINION COPPER MINING
AND SMELTING CO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF THE STATE
OF MASSACHUSETTS.

Nos. 191, 192.

Argued March 5, 6, 1912.-Decided May 27, 1912.

One of two joint tort-feasors was sued in the Circuit Court of theUnited
States for New York, jurisdiction being based solely on, diversity
of citizenship, and the bill was dismissed; the other joint tort-feasor,
who resided in Massachusetts, and was not, and could no,, be made"
a party defendant in the New York suit, having been sued in the
state court of Massachusetts, set up the New York judgment,

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

225 U. S.

claiming that under the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution of the United States the judgment dismissing a suit based
on the same cause of action against one alleged to be his joint tortfeasor was a bar to the suit, and that the Massachusetts courts
were bound to give to the judgment the same effect as an estoppel
as against subsequent suits on the same cause of action. Held that:
Although one of two joint tort-feasors may be individually interested
in the result of a suit against the other, the result is*merely that
of precedent and not of res judicata, and the courts of another State
are not under obligation to follow the decision.
Assistance by one of two joint tort-feasors in the defense of a suit
against the other, because of interest in the decision as a judicial
precedent affecting a case pending against him in another State,
does not create an estoppel as to the one so assisting in the defense.
Where the cause of action against joint tort-feasors is ex delicto, and
several as well as joint, one of the tort-feasors not sued is not a privy
to one that is sued so that a judgment dismissing the case against
the latter is a-bar to another suit against the latter.
Where the remedy of the plaintiff in a suit against one of two joint
tort-feasors depends upon the defendant's own culpability, failure
to recover in a prior suit on the same facts against the other is not
a bar.
When dealing with the estoppel of a judgment, privity denotes mutual
or successive relationship to the same right of property, and while
there is diversity of opinion as to whether the estoppel can be expanded so as to include joint tort-feasors not parties, the sounder
reason, as well as weight of authority, is that failure to recover
against one is not a bar to a suit or an individual cause of action
against the other.
Where the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States depends entirely upon diversity of citizenship, that court administers
the law of the State, and its judgment is entitled to the same sanction as would attach to a judgment of a court of that State, and is
entitled in the courts of another State to the same faith and credit
which Wvould be given to a judgment of the court of the State in
which the Circuit Court which rendered it was sitting.
Where a judgment of the court of another State is. set up as a bar,
the effect of that judgment in the courts of the State which ren* deled it is a question of fact to be determined by the court in which
it is set up.
Although a judgment dismissing the bill against one'of two joint tortfeasors may be a bar in the State where rendered against a suit oi

BIGELOW v. OLD DOMINION COPPER CO.
225 U. S.

113

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

the same cause of action against the, other joint tort-feasor, the courts
of another State may, without denying full faith and credit to such
judgment, determine for itself under principles of general law whether
or not such judgment is a bar to suits against the other tort-feasor.
Under § 1 of Art. IV of the Constitution and § 905, Rev. Stat., the
judgment of a court of one State when sued upon or pleaded in estoppel in the courts of another State is put upon the plane of a domestic judgment in respect to conclusiveness of the facts adjudged;
otherwise it would be rexaminable as only prima facie evidence of
the matter adjudged as is the case with foreign judgments.
The full faith and credit clause is to be construed in the light of the
other provisions of the Constitution, none of which it was intended
to modify or override.
The courts of one State are not required to regard as conclusive any
judgment of the court of another State which had no jurisdiction of
the subject or the parties; and the courts of the State in which the
judgment is set up has the right to inquire whether the court rendering it had jurisdiction to pronounce a judgment which would conclude the parties themselves or those claiming that the judgment
was effective as an estoppel.
The privity that exists between a stockholder and the corporation
that makes a judgment against the corporation coniclusive as against
the stockholder does not exist as between joint tort-feasors. Hancock
National Bank v. Farnum, 176 U. S. 640, distinguished.

188 Massachusetts, 315, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the question of whether the
Massachusetts courts gave to a New York judgment
pleaded as a bar in a Massachusetts suit the full faith
and credit which is required by § 1 of Art. IV of the
Constitution of the United States and § 905, Revised
Statutes, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. John C. Spooner, with whom Mr. George Rublee,
Mr. Joseph P. Cotton, Jr., Mr. Charles H. Tyler, Mr. Owen
D. Young, Mr. Burton E. Eames and Mr. William C. Rice
were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error:
The decrees of the Massachusetts court involve a denial of full faith and credit to the Lewisohn decree in the
New York case.
VOL. ccxxv-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

225 U. S.

The judgment of a Fedeyal court sitting in New York
is entitled in another State to the same faith and credit
as a decree of a state court in New York. Embry v.
Palmer, 107 U. S. 3; Live Stock Co. v. Butchers' Union,
120 U. S. 141; Metcalf v. Watertown, 153 U. S. 671; Hancock Bank v. Farnum, 176 U. S. 640; Deposit Bank v.
Frankfort, 191 U. S. 499; Riverdale Cotton Mills v. Alabama
Mfg. Co., 198 U. S. 188.
The decree of a Federal court in a State must be given
the same effect by the courts of that State as a decree
of the state court. Cases supra, and see NationalFoundry
Works v. Oconto Co., 183 U. S. 216; Central NationalBank
v. Stevens, 169 U. S. 432; Steinbach v. Relief Fire Ins. Co.,
77 N. Y. 498; Oceanic Co. v. Compania Translantica
Espanola, 134 N. Y. 461.
The fact that the Lewisohn decree was rendered on a
demurrer does not detract from its efficacy as a bar. Nor.
Pac. Ry. Co. v. Slaght, 205 U. S. 122, 130; Yates v. Utica
Bank, 206 U. S. 181; Bissell v. Spring Valley, 124 U. S.
225; Gould v. Evansville R. R. Co., 91 U. S. 526; Alley
v. Nott, 111 U. S. 472; Bouchaud v. Dias, 3 Denio (N- Y.),
235, 244.
The opinions of the Circuit Court and Circuit Court
of Appeals and of this court show that the bill in the
Lewisohn suit was dismissed on the merits. National
Foundry Works v. Oconto Co., supra, at p. 234; Baker v.
Cummings, 181 U. S. 117.
It is immaterial that the present suits were begun prior
to the suit against Lewisohn. Mitchell v. First National
Bank, 180 U. S. 471; Nugent v. Traction Co., 87 Fed. Rep.
251; United States v. Dewey, 6 Biss. 501; Rogers v. Odell,
39 N. H. 452; Sharon v. Hill, 26 Fed. Rep. 337, 344.
The full faith and credit clause requires that the law
and usage of New York should control not only as to what
is decided by the decree, but also as to who is entitled
to the benefit thereof. This is the plain meaning of the

BIGELOW v. OLD DOMINION COPPER CO.
225 U. S.

115

Argument for "Plaintiffs in Error.

language used. Hancock Bank v. Farnum, 176 U. S. 640;
Laing v. Rigney, 160 U. S. 531; Tilt v. Kelsey, 207 U. S.
43.
This result cannot be defeated by the technical Massachusetts rule which denies to alleged joint tort-feasors
the benefit of former adjudication as a bar. Renaud v.
Abbott, 116 U. S. 277; Hanley v. Donoghue, 116 U. S. 1;
Laing v. Rigney, supra.
The question of the jurisdiction of the Federal court to
render the Lewisohn decree is not to be determined by
the law of Massachusetts, but by the law of New York,
subject to the limitation that that law must comply with
the standards of general ju:tisprudence. D'Arcy v. Ketchum, 11 How. 165; Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714; Wisconsin v. Pelican Ins. Co., 127 U. S. 265, 289; Huntington
v. Attrill, 146 U. S. 657; Embry v. Palmer, 107 U. S. 3;
Renaud v. Abbott, 116 U. S. 277, 288; Rogers v. Alabama,
192 U. S. 226, 231; German Savings Society v. Dormitzer,
192 U. S. 125.
Since the New York court had undoubted jurisdiction
over the plaintiff in the Lewisohn suit, there is no jurisdictional objection to giving effect to that decree as against
it in Massachusetts. The rule of mutuality is subject
to well-recognized exceptions. There is no requirement
of mutuality of estoppel in cases like the present where
the plaintiff, after failing on the merits to maintain its
action, brings another suit upon the same cause of action
against another defendant who acted jointly with the
first defendant in the transaction. PortlandMining Co. v.
Stratton's Independence, 158 Fed. Rep. 63; Emma Mining
Co. v. Emma Mining Co. of Vew York, 7 Fed. Rep. 401;
People v. Stevens, 51 How. Pr. (N. Y.) 235, aff'd, 71 N. Y.
527; Spencer v. Dearth, 43 Vermont, 98; Williams v. McGrade, 13 Minnesota, 39; King v. Chase, 15 N. H. 9;
Sonnentheil v. Moody (Tex. Civ. App., 1900), 56 S. W.
Rep. 1001; Sonnentheil v. Texas GuaranteeCo., 23 Tex. Civ.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

225 U. S.

App. 436; Atkinson v. White, 60 Maine, 396; Hill v. Bain,
15 R. I. 75; Ferrers v. Arden, Cro. Eliz. 668; 2 Black on
Judgments (2d ed., 1902), § 781; Green v. Van Buskirk,
7 Wall. 139; Featherston v. Turnpike Co., 71 Hun, 109;
Krolik v. Curry, 148 Michigan, 214; State v. Coste, 36
Missouri, 436; Hesselbach v. St. Louis, 179 Missouri, 505;
Delaplainv. Kansas City, 109 Mo. App. 107; Montfort v.
Hughes, 3 E. D. Smith, 591; Indiana Nitroglycerine Co. v.
Lippincott Glass Co., 165 Indiana, 361; Hayes v. Chicago
Telephone Co., 218 Illinois, .414; Bradley v. Rosenthal,
154 California, 420; Logan v. Railway Co., 82 S. Car. 518;
Rookard v. Atlanta Ry. Co., .84 S. Car. 190; Biggs v.
Benger, 2 Ld. Raymond, 1372; Marks v. Sullivan, 8 Utah,
406, 410; New Orleans Railroad Co. v. Jopes, 142 U. S. 18;
Doremus v. Root, 23 Washington, 710; Stevick v. Nor.
Pac. Ry., 39 Washington, 501; Anderson v. Fleming, 160
Indiana, 597; Anderson v. Street RailroadCo., 200 Illinois,
329; Muntz v. Algiers &c. Co., 116 Louisiana, 236; Mc-.
Ginnis v. Chicago &c. Co., 200 Missouri, 347; Chicago
&c. Co. v. McManigal, 73 Nebraska, 580; Tyng v. Clark,
9 Hun, 269; Miller v. White, 50 N. Y. 137; Jackson v.
Griswold, 4 Hill, 522.
The present cases do not involve any question of joint
tort or liability ex delicto. These cases are clearly distinguishable from the cases where the facts alleged if
proved would amount to a tort, since it was decided in
the Lewisohn Case that all the facts set up do not state
a cause of action. The issue in the present cases under
the full faith and credit clause is the effect of the Lewisohn
decree in New York, and in the Federal courts, and in
that jurisdiction neither Bigelow nor Lewisohn is liable
ex delicto, or at all. Promoters' liability, in any event,
is only that of a fiduciary, and in the absence of moral
wrong there is a right of contribution. Jacobs v. Pollard,
10 Cush. 287; Palmer v. Wick Shipping Co., A. C. (1894),
318; Armstrong County v. Clarion County, 66 Pa. St. 218;

BIGELOW v. OLD DOMINION COPPER CO.
225 U. S.

117

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

First NationalBank v. Avery Co., 69 Nebraska, 329; Eaton
& Prince Co. v. Trust Co., 123 Mo. App. 117; Castle v.
Noyes, 14 N. Y. 329; Coventry v. Barton, 17 Johns. 142;
Oceanic Steam Co. v. Compania Transatlantic,134 N. Y.
461; Andrews v. Murray, 33 Barb. 354; Peck v. Ellis, 2
Johns. Ch. 131, 136; Kolb v. NationalSurety Co., 176 N. Y.
233; Getty v. Devlin, 54 N. Y. 403; Loudenslagerv. Woodbury Land Co., 58 N. J. Eq. 556; Emma Mining Co. v.
Grant, 11 Ch. D. 918 (940).
The principle claimed by the defendant in error that
estoppels must be mutual, has, in any event, no place
in the constitutional law as against the express requirement of full faith and credit.
By the law and usage of New York, the present actions
against plaintiff in error, had they been pending in New
York, would have been barred by the Lewisohn decree.
Cases supra, and Woodhouse v. Duncan, 106 N. Y. 527;
Bates v. Stanton, 1 Duer, 79..
Plaintiff in error is, in any event, entitled to the benefit
of said decree because he was privy with Lewisohn, not
only under the law of New York, but under the general
principles of law. The Lewisohn action was based upon
the identical subject-matter and transaction as the cases
at bar. Ferrersv. Arden, Cro. Eliz. 668.
Defendant in error, by its own choice of forum and
of remedy, has litigated and determined that the title
to the shares of stock, which it claims were wrongfully
issued to Bigelow and Lewisohn, was rightfully in them
free from any interest or equity in its favor. Bates v.
Stanton, supra; Kessler v. Eldred, 206 U. S. 285; Bush v.
Knox, 2 Hun, 576.
Lewisohn was trustee, agent and representative of
Bigelow in the thirty-thousand share transaction, which
was the subject-matter of the Lewisohn suit in New York.
Re Straut Estate, 126 N. Y. 201; Bracken v. Atlantic Trust
Co., 36 App. Div. 67; aff'd, 167 N. Y. 510; Russell v. Lasher,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

225 U. S.

4 Barb. 232; Emma Mine Case, supra; Castle v. Noyes,
14 N. Y. 326; King v. Barnes, 109 N. Y. 267; Wilcox v.
Pratt, 125 N. Y. 688; Getty v. Devlin, 54 N. Y. 403; 70
N. Y. 504; Carter v. Bowe, 41 Hun, 516; Freeman on Judgments, § 173; New York Code Civ. Proc., § 449; Bliss,
N. Y. Ann. Code (1902), note "L."; Lawrence v. Schaefer,
19 Misc. 230; Seymour v. Smith, 114 N. Y. 481; Duncan v.
China Mutual Ins. Co., 129 N. Y. 237; Coffin v. Grand
Rapids Co., 136 N. Y. 655; Hoffman House v. Foote, 172
N. Y. 348; 1 Greenleaf on Evidence, p. 523; Lichty v.
Lewis, 63 Fed. Rep. 535; 77 Fed. Rep. 111.
Plaintiff in error participated in the defense of the
Lewisohn suit with the knowledge of all parties. Carleton
v. Lombard, 149 N. Y. 137; Van Koughnet v. Dennie, 68
Hun, 179; Woodhouse v. Duncan, 106 N. Y. 527; Demarest
v. Darg, 32 N. Y. 281;Leavitt v. Wolcott, 95 N. Y. 212, 221;
Oceanic Navigation Co. v. Compania Transatlantic, 144
N. Y. 663; Rumford Chemical Works v. Hygienic Chemical
Co., 159 Fed. Rep. 436; Port Jarvis v. First National
Bank, 96 N. Y. 550.
The Lewisohn decree is equally a bar to the one hundred
thousand share suit.. The question of liability in these
two suits depends upon identical facts, and both' suits
involve parts of a single transaction. Old-Dominion Co. v.
Bigelow, 203 Massachusetts, 159.
Where two separate suits relate to separate properties,
but the rights of the parties depend upon identical facts,
adjudication in one is a bar to the other. Bissell v. Spring
Valley, 124 U. S. 225; New Orleans v. Citizens' Bank, 167
U. S. 371; Southern Pac.Ry. Co. v. United States, 168 U. S.
1; Nor. Pac. Ry. Co. v. Slaght, 205 U. S. 122; United States
v. Land Company, 192 U. S. 355; Green v. Bogue, 158
U. S. 478; Dimock v. Revere Copper Co., 117 U. S. 559;
Forsyth v. Hammond, 166 U. S. 506; Johnson Co. v. Wharton, 152 U. S. 252; Bouchaud v. Dias, 3 Denio, 238; Doty v.
Brown, 4 N. Y. 71; Pray v. Hegeman, 98 N. Y. 351; Park

BIGELOW v. OLD DOMINION COPPER CO.
225 U.S.

119

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

Hill Co. v. Herriot, 41 App. Div. 324; Pakas v. Hollingshead, 184 N. Y. 211; Hirshbachv. Ketchum, 84 N. Y. App.
Div. 258.
The decree of the Massachusetts court involved denial
of full faith and credit to the laws of New York and New
Jersey. The full faith and credit clause requires full faith
and credit to the statutory and common law of other
States,-as well as to their judgments. Elliot's Debates I,
80, 149, 272; V, 487, 504; Chicago & Alton R. R. Co. v.
Wiggins Ferry Co., 119 U. S. 615; Smithsonian Institution v. St. John, 214 U. S. 19, 28; Banholzer v. N. Y. Life
Ins. Co., 178 U. S. 402; Allen v. Alleghany Co., 196 U. S.
458; Johnson v. N. Y. Life Ins. Co., 187 U. S. 491; Glenn
v. Garth, 147 U. S. 360; Finney v. Guy, 189 U. S. 335, 340;
Louisv. & Nashv. R. R. v. Melton, 218 U. S. 36.
In the present cases full faith and credit has been denied
to the common law and statutes of New York and New
Jersey. Since the court below took judicial notice of the
laws of New Jersey, this court should do so likewise.
Renaud v. Abbott, .116 U. S. 277, 285, 286; Liverpool Steam
Co. v. Phenix Ins. Co., 129 U. S.397, 445; EasternBuilding
Association v. Williamson, 189 U. S. 122.
Under the statutes and decisions of New Jersey, the
Old Dominion Company was fully organized and of full
capacity to make the contract which was made with the
.plaintiff in -error and Lewisohn. See authorities discussed
post.
The decisions of New York were put in evidence at the
trial in Massachusetts.
The Massachusetts decrees involve an impairment of
the obligation of the contract between the plaintiff in
error and Lewisohn on the one side, and the defendant in
error on the other side.
The question whether a valid contract existed is to be
determined by this court, when it is claimed that the
obligation of such contract is impaired. McCullough v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

225 U. S.

Virginia, 172 U. S. 102; Douglas v. Kentucky, 168 U. S.
488; Mobile & 0. R. Co. v. Tennessee, 153 U. S. 486, 492.
The corporation was fully organized and existing and
competent, under the laws of the State of its organization,
to make this contract. This court will take judicial notice
of the foreign law where the court below did so. See
authorities supra. The Massachusetts court fully considered the New Jersey law relating to the organization
and
of the defendant in error.
Seecapacity
opinion below, especially dissenting
opinion by
Mr. Chief Justice Knowlton.
Under the New Jersey law the corporation was fully
organized and competent to bind itself by this contract.
Old Dominion Co. v. Lewisohn, 210 U. S. 206; Old Dominion
Co. v. Bigelow, 203 Massachusetts, 159.
The discussion on this point in Bigelow v. Old Dominion
Company, 74 N. J. Eq. 457, was obiter, and not supported
by the authorities cited. The transaction between the
plaintiff in error and Lewisohn on the one side and the
defendant in error on the other side gave rise to a valid
and binding contract. . The contract was created in the
State of New York, by the vote of the Board of Directors
accepting the offers to convey the property. The rule.
that validity of the contract was to be governed by the
law of the place of performance is always applied in aid of
the contract and never for the purpose of finding it invalid. Pritchard v.. Norton, 106 U. S. 124,'137; Hall v.
Cordell, 142 U. S. 116; London Assurance Co. v. Companhia De Moagens, 167 U. S. 149;.Liverpool Steam Co. v.
Phenix Ins. Co., 129 U. S.397, 458.
The contract was fully executed by the parties and, as an
executed contract, it was as far immune from attack
under the laws of New York as while it was executory.
Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87, 136; Cooley on Con. ir.,
7th ed., pp. 384, 385.
The New York law as established by the decided cases

BIGELOW v. OLD DOM1[NION COPPER CO.
225 U. S.

121

Argument for Plairtiffs in Error.

before this contract was entered into made this contract
valid and not voidable. Parsonsv. Hayes, 14 Abb. N. C.
419; Barr v. Railroad Company, 125 N. Y. 263; Seymour
v. Cemetery Ass'n, 144 N. Y. 3:33; Thornton v. Wabash Ry.
Co., 81 N. Y. 462; King v. Barnes, 109 N. Y. 267, 28S;
Langdon v. Fogg, 18 Fed. Rep. 5; Stewart v. St. Louis R. R.
Co., 41 Fed. Rep. 736; DuPont v. Tilden, 42 Fed. Rep. 87;
Wood v. Water Works Co., 44: Fed. Rep. 146; Foster v.
Seymour, 23 Fed. Rep. 65; McCracken v. Robinson, 57
Fed. Rep. 375.
Many cases subsequent to the present contract sustain
the same rule. Hutchinson v. Simpson, 92 App. Div. 382;
Insurance Press v. Montauk Wire Co., 103 App. Div. 472;
Blum v. Whitney, 185 N. Y. 232.
There is a vital distinction between "future allottees"
who supply money through the payment for their stock
which is to go into the pockets of the promoters in payment for the property conveyed by them to the corporation, and cases like the present where the issue.of stock to
"future allottees" is independent of the initial transaction and does not benefit the promoters. The Massachusetts decrees involve an impairment of the contract within
the decisions of this court. The liability imposed upon
the plaintiff in error by the Massachusetts decrees, necesSarily involves a denial of the binding force of the contract, not by reason of any extensive equity, but upon a
finding in substance that the defendant in error never
became bound. Old Dominion Company v. Bigelow, 188
Massachusetts, 315, 328, 329.
Such avoidance of the contract which was valid by the
laws under which it arose, constitutes an impairment.
The question of impairment of contract by judicial decision has been found to exist in many cases originating
in the Circuit Courts of the United States. Gelpcke v.
Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175; Havemeyer v. Iowa County, 3 Wall.
294; Township of Pine Grove v. Talcott, 19 'Wall. 666;

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

225 U. S.

Pleasant Township v. £tna Life Insurance Co., 138 U. S.
67; Butz v. Muscatine, 8 Wall. 575; Anderson v. Santa
Anna, 116 U. S. 356; Folsom v. Ninety-six, 159 U. S. 611;
Stanley County v. Coler, 190 U. S. 437; Harris v. Jex, 55
N. Y. 421; Douglass v. County of Pike, 101 U. S. 677;
Great Southern Fire Proof Hotel Company v. Johnson, 193

U. S. 532.
The Great Southern Hotel Case involved a purely private

contract. The same rule as to impairment by judicial
decision has recently been established by this court in
similar cases coming here by writ of error to the state
court. Muhlker v. New York & Harlem R. R. Co., 197
U. S. 594; Sauer v. City of New York, 206 U. S. 536.

The Muhlker Case involved merely the reversal'of the
rule of the common law by the state court and not the
interpretation of any statute. The present case-is stronger
in favor of the plaintiff in error than the Muhlker Case, because the plaintiff in error is not seeking a reversal of the
rule established in New York, but rather its enforcement;
and the present case involves the actual setting aside of
the New York contract by the courts of another State.
See opinion of Mr. Justice Holmes in Old Dominion Company v. Lewisohn, 210 Massachusetts, 206. The Massachusetts decrees also constitute an impairment of the
contract, in that they deny the power or capacity of the
defendant in error under the laws of New Jersey to bind
itself with respect thereto, and thereby they misinterpret the statutes of New Jersey relating to corporations.
General Statutes of New Jersey, 1895, Vol. 1, pages 907
et seq.; dissenting opinion of Mr. Chief Justice Knowlton
in the present case below; Bickley v. Schlag, 46 N. J. Eq.
533, 535; Donald v. American Smelting Company, 62 N. J.

Eq. 729, 733.
The Massachusetts decrees involve denial to the plaintiff in error of due process of law.
The due process clause operates not only as a limita-

BIGELOW v. OLD DOMINION COPPER CO.
225 U. S.

123

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

tion upon state legislatures, but also to restrain the state
courts from denying'the substance of due process, even
though after hearing and after compliance with all the
jurisdictional forms. Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. S. 313;
Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339! Scott v. McNeal, 154
U. S. 34; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy'R. R. v. Chicago,
166 U. S. 226; Reynolds v. Chicago Traction Co., 207 U: S.
20.
Due process is denied by judicial decision (as distinguished from mere error) whenever fundamental principles are disregarded or vested rights acquired under
settled rules of local law are divested by reversal of such
settled'rules, or by a decision in violation thereof. Muhlker v. New York & Harlem R. R. Co., supra; In re Kemmler,
136 U. S. 436, 448; Davidsan v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97;
Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S. 516; Brown v. Levee
Commissioners, 50 Mississippi, 468; Wulzen v. San Francisco, 101 California, 15; In A. Ah Lee, 5 Fed. Rep. 899;
Duke of Norfolk's Case, 3 Ch. Cas. 1, 33.
The Massachusetts decrees involve retroactive judicial
legislation,'impairing rights of the plaintiff in error which
were vested under the settled rules of law in New York.
(The laws of New York and New Jersey have been examined in the preceding section.) This court will decide
for itself a to the New York ]law. Huntington v. Attrill,
146 U. S. 657, 683, 684; Scott v. McNeal, 154 U. S. -34, 35;
Laing v. Rigney, 160-U. S. 531; Great Western Telegraph
Co. v. Purdy, 162 U. S. 329; Eastern Building Ass'n v.
Williamson, 189 U. S. 122, 127; Finney v. Guy, 189 U. S.
335,'340; Harding v. Harding, 198 U. S. 317, 331, 335;
Tilt v. Kelsey, 207 U. S. 43, 57:, 58.
Retrospective laws cannot be enacted to deprive parties
of property rights previously vested. Medford v. Learned,
16 Massachusetts, 215; Addams v. Marx, 50 N. J. Law,
253; Towle v. Eastern Railroad,18 N. H. 547.
The decision of the Massachusetts court falls within

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

the same prohibition. Old Dominion Company v. Lewisohn, 210 U. S. 206.
The Massachusetts decrees create a fictitious obligation
to the defendant in error as to the transaction in question
nunc pro tunc by virtue of subsequent acts, although at
the time of the transaction it fully consented thereto and
although the subsequent acts involved no breach of duty
toward it.
The Massachusetts decrees also involve a denial of due
process in holding the plaintiff in error liable in solido.
The rule of promoters' liability has always rested upon
the principle that the promoter is a fiduciary. His obligation is purely equitable and does not rest upon the theory
that he commits a tort. Any profit received by him is
charged with a constructive trust. The Massachusetts
decision holds the plaintiff in error liable for what he did
not receive. The case is not one involving defalcation or
loss to a trust estate, and so is not within those cases
which hold one trustee liable for defaults of his co-trustee.
No such rule existed when the contract in question was
made, and it is now attempted to be imposed retroactively
by a judicial decision of the Massachusetts court.
Mr. Edward F. McClennen and Mr. Louis D. Brandeis
for defendants in error.
MR.

JUSTICE LURTON

delivered the opinion of the court.

The question upon which these cases have been brought
to this court is whether the Massachusetts court gave to
a New York judgment pleaded as a bar to a Massachusetts suit that full faith and credit required by the first
section of Art. IV of the Constitution of the United States,
and § 905, Revised Statutes, enacted in pursuance thereof.
The Old Dominion Copper and Smelting Company,
hereafter designated the CopperCompany, a corporation

BIGELOW v. OLD DOMINION COPPER CO.
225 U. S.

125

Opinion of the Court.

of New Jersey, filed two bills in an equity court of Massachusetts against the plaintiff in error, Albert S. Bigelow,
to recover secret profits realized by him, and an associate,
one Lewisohn, as organizers or promoters of the Copper
Company, in selling the mining properties of another
corporation, called the Baltimore Company, and certain
tceighboring properties, designated in the transcript, "outside properties.'
The two sales were for distinct considerations. The
bills alleged that when these sales were made the Copper
Company was under the absolute control of the two promoters, Bigelow and Lewisohn, and that they divided
the profits between them. 'The fundamental facts in
each case were the same. The two cases were heard together' in the state courts, and are now heard as if one
case, though upon separate writs and distinct records.
Demurrers Were interposed and overruled. The allegations of the bills are fully shown in 188 Massachusetts,
315, where one of the cases was considered on demurrer.
Answers were then filed and a great mass of evidence
taken. Upon a full hearing the allegations of the respective bills were held to be sustained by the proofs and
final decrees were rendered for the plaintiff in sums aggregating $2,178,673.33. The decrees were affirmed in the
Supreme Judicial Court.
The Federal question, upon which the judgment of
this court is sought, arose in this wise: Bigelow, the plaintiff in error here, was a citizen of Massachusetts,. and was,
therefore, sued in the courts of that State. Lewisohn,
who was Bigelow's associate promoter, was a citizen of
New York. He was, therefore, sued separately in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York. 'The bills filed there were identical
in every essential with those filed in Massachusetts. In
the two sets of bills it was alleged that Bigelow and Lewisohn were joint promoters of the Copper Company, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

as such made the sales to it while under their entire control,
and that they had realized fraudulent profits. Demurrers
were interposed in the New York cases, which were sustained, and the bills dismissed. These judgments were
affirmed in the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit. The judgment in one of these cases (Old Dominion
Copper,Co. v. Lewisohn), that relating to the sale of the

"outside properties," was brought to this court by certiorari and affirmed, the opinion being by Mr. Justice
Holmes, 210,U. S. 206, where thO facts of the case are
stated.
The final decree in one of the New York cases was
pleaded in a supplemental answer iin the pending Massachusetts cases as a bar to the suits against Bigelow. The
Massachusetts court adjudged that Bigelow was neither
a party 'or a privy to the New York suits, and was, therefore, not protected by the judgment therein.
To conclude Bigelow by the New York judgment, it
must appear that he was either a party or a privy. That
he was rot a party to the record is conceded. He had no
legal right to defend or control the proceedings, nor to
appeal from the decree. He was, therefore, a stranger,
and was not concluded by that, judgment as a party

thereto. That he was indirectly interested in the result
because the question there litigated was one which might
affect his own liability as a judicial precedent in a subsequent suit against him upon the same cause of action is
true, but the effect of a judgment against Lewisohmn as a
precedent is not that of res judicata, and the Massachusetts court was under no obligation to follow the decision as a mere judicial precedent. Nor would assistance
in the defense of the suit, because of interest in the decision
as a judicial precedent which might influence the decision
in his own case, create an estoppel as to Bigelow.' Stryker
v. Goodnow; 123 U. S. 527. Also Rumford Chem. Works v.
Hygienic Chem. Co., 215 U.'S. 156.

BIGELOW v. OLD DOM[NION COPPER CO.
225 U. S.

127

Opinion of the Court.

But it is said that if Bigelow was not in every sense a
party, he was privy to Lewisohn, who was, and that
the estoppel of the adverse judgment in the suit against
Lewisohn protected Bigelow as well.
But would that judgment, if it had been for the plaintiff
in that case, have bound Bigelow in a subsequent suit by
the same plaintiff upon the same facts? If not, upon
what principle may he claim the advantage of it as a bar
to the present suit? The cause of action was one arising
ex delicto. It was several as well as joint. The right of
action against both might have been extinguished by a
settlement with one, or by a judgment against one, and
satisfaction. But the claim has come in substance to this,
that although the plaintiff had a remedy against Lewisohn
and Bigelow severally or jointly, a failure to recover in an
action against one is a bar to his action against the other,
the facts being the same, although there has been no satisfaction for the injury done. The only basis upon which
such a result can be asserted is that Bigelow would have
been bound by the judgment if it had been adverse to
Lewisohn, and may, therefore, shelter himself behind it
since it was favorable to his joint wrongdoer.
It is a principle of general elementary law that the estoppel of a judgment must be mutual. Railroad Co. v.
National Bank, 102 U. S. 14; Keokuk & W. Railroad v.
Missouri, 152 U. S. 301; Freeman on Judgments, § 159;
Greenleaf on Evidence, 13th ed., vol. 1, § 524. The mutuality of estoppel by judgment is fully recognized in both
the New York and Massachusetts decisions: Atlantic Dock
Co. v. New York, 53 N. Y. 64; Brigham v. Fayerweather,
140 Massachusetts, 411, 415; Nelson v. Brown, 144 N. Y.
2M4.
An apparent exception to this rule of mutuality has
been held to exist where the liability of the defendant is
altogether dependant upon the culpability of one exonerated in a prior suit, upon the same facts, when sued by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

same plaintiff. See PortlandGold Mining Co. v. Stratton's
Independence, 158 Fed. Rep. 63, where the' cases are collected. The unilateral character of the estoppel of an adjudication in such cases is justified by the injustice which
would result in allowing a recovery against a defendant for
conduct of another, when that other has been exonerated in
a direct suit. • The cases in which it has been enforced are
cases where the relation between the defenda pts in the
two suits has been that of principal and agent, master.
and servant, or indemnitor and indemnitee.
The principle upon which one may avail himself of the
effect of a judgment adverse to the plaintiff in a former
suit, against the immediate actor, is thus stated in New
Orleans & N. E. R. R. Co. v. Jopes, 142 U. S. 18, 24, 27:
"It would seem on general principles that if the party
who actually causes the injury is free from all civil and
criminal liability therefor, his employer must also be entitled to like immunity. . . . If the immediate actor
is free from responsibility because his act was lawful, can
his employer, one taking no direct part in the transaction,
be held responsible? . . .'. The question carries its
own answer; and it may be generally affirmed that if an
act of an employe6 be-lawful, and one which he is justified

in doing, and which casts no personal responsibility upon
him, no responsibility attaches to the employer therefor."
It is too evident to need argument that the
remedy of
this plaintiff does not depend upon the culpable conduct
of Lewisohn, but upon ZBigelow's own wrong, whether
alone or in cooperation with Lewisohn. The liability of
each was several as well as joint, and a failure to recover
against one is no bar to a suit against the other upon the
same facts. But a judgment not only estops those who
were, actually parties but also such personk as were represented by those who were or. claim under or in privity
with them.
What is privity? As used when dealing with the. es-,

BIGELOW v. OLD DOMINION COPPER CO.
225 U. S.

129

Opinion of the Court.

toppel of a judgment, privity denotes mutual or successive
relationship to the same right of property. Litchfield v.
Goodnow, 123 U. S. 549. The ground upon which privies
are bound by a judgment, says Prof. Greenleaf, in his
work upon Evidence, 13th ed., vol. 1, § 523, "is, that they
are identified with him in interest; and wherever this
identity is found to exist, all are alike concluded. Hence,
all privies, whether in estate, in blood, or in law, are
estopped from litigating that which is conclusive upon
him with whom they are in privity."
But it is said that the relationship of joint tort-feasors
is such as to constitute privity, and that a judgment in a
suit in favor of one upon the same identical cause of action,
is a bar to a suit by the same plaintiff against the other
wrongdoer. Whether the estoppel of a judgment is to be
confined to those who were actually parties or privies in
estate or interest, or may be expanded so as to include
joint tort-feasors, not actually parties, is a question concerning which there is some diversity of opinion. But, as
We shall later see, the sounder reason, as well as the weight
of authority, is that the failure to recover against one of
two joint tort-feasors is. not a bar to a suit against the
other upon the same facts.
Passing this for the time, we come to a consideration of
the contention that whatever the general law upon this
subject, if such was the effect of such a judgment under
the law of New York, it was the duty of the Massachusetts court, under the full faith and credit clause, to give
it like effect in the present suit.
That the judgment in question is entitled to the same
sanction which would attach to a like judgment of a
court of the State of New York, is plain. The United
States court was in the exercise of jurisdiction to administer the laws of the State, since its jurisdiction depended solely upon diversity of citizenship. Its judgment
is, therefore, entitled in the courts of another State to the
VOL. ccxxv-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

same faith and credit which would attach to a judgment
of a court of the State of New York. Dupasseurv. Rochereau, 21 Wall. 130; Deposit Bank v. Frankfort, 191 U. S.
499, 514. What, then, is the effect of such a judgment,
under the law of New York, as an estoppel in a subsequent
suit upon the same facts by the same plaintiff against
Bigelow. This was a question of fact in the Massachusetts court: Hanley v. Donoghue, 116 U. S. 1. Expert legal
opinion is favorable to the view urged by the plaintiff in
error, though the ground upon which such a consequence
rests is by no means clear. The highest courts of New
York have not clearly decided the precise question here
presented. The cases referred to or commented upon by
the witnesses cannot be said to clearly point to the conclusion claimed. Nevertheless, the Massachusetts court,
treating the question as one of fact, accepted the view
that under the law of New York this judgment would
have been a bar to another suit upon the same facts
against Bigelow, in the courts of New York. We shall do
likewise. The Massachusetts courts held that under the
general law, which was the applicable law of Massachusetts, the New York court had no such jurisdiction over
the person of Bigelow as to affect him, either as a'party
who might have controlled the case or appealed from the
judgment, and that he was in no sense such a privy as to
be bound by it. Upon the general law as to the estoppel
of such a judgment, that court said:
"This can hardly be regarded as an open question in
this Commonwealth. In Sprague v. Oakes, 19 Pick. 455,
which was an action for trespass quare clausum fregit, it
was said, respecting such a defense, 'The defendant was
neither a party nor privy to that judgment, was not
bound by it, nor could he take advantage of it.' This case
has nevr been overruled or questioned and must be regarded as stating the law of this Commonwealth. There
are other authorities to the same point. Lansing V.

BIGELOW v. OLD DOMINION COPPER CO.
225 U. S.

131

Opinion of the Court.

Montgomery, 2 Johns. 382; Marsh v. Berry, 7 Cowen, 344;
Moore v. Tracy, 7 Wend. 229; Gittleman v. Feltman, 122
App. Div. (N. Y.) 385; Atlantic Dock Co. v. Mayor and
Aldermen of New York, 53 N. Y. 64; Tyng v. Clark, 9 Hun,
269; Calkins v. Allerton, 3 Barb. 171, 174; Goble v. Lillon,
86 Indiana, 327; Thompson v. Chicago, St. Paul & Kansas
City Railroad, 71 Minnesota, 89; Three States Lumber Co.
v. Blanks, 118 Tennessee, 62:7. The reasons upon which
these decisions rest is that there can be no estoppel arising
out of a judgment, unless the same parties have had their
day in court touching the matter litigated, and unless the
judgment is equally available to both parties. It requires no discussion to demonstrate that a judgment in
the Lewisohn suit against the defendant would not have
fixed liability upon the present defendant. Hence there
can be no estoppel under our law or under the general
principles of jurisprudence, because it is not mutual.
Brigham v. Fayerweather, 140 Massachusetts, 411, 415;
Dallinger v. Richardson, 176 Massachusetts, 77, 83;
Worcester v. Green, 2 Pick. 425, 429; Biddle & Smart Co.
v. Burnham, 91 Maine, 578; Moore v. Albany, 98 N. Y.
396. 'Estoppels to be good must be mutual.' Litchfield
v. Goodnow, 123 U. S. 549, 552; Nelson v. Brown, 144
N. Y. 384, 390. Bigelow could not have appeared as of
right and made a defense to that suit. No judgment can
be regarded as res judicata as to any matter where the
rights in the subject-matter arise out of mutuality, and
not by succession, unless the party could, as matter of
right, appear and defend,, even though he may have had
knowledge of the suit. Otherwise, he might be bound by
a judgment as to which he had never had the opportunity
to be heard, which is opposed to the first principles of
justice. Brabrook v. Boston Five Cents Savings Bank, 104
Massachusetts, 228, 233. There is no privity between
joint wrongdoers, because all are jointly and severa~y
liable. Corey v. Havener, 18:2 Massachusetts, 250; Feneff

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

v. Bo8ton & Maine Railroad, 196 Massachusetts, 575, 581;
Pinkerton vi Rndolph, 200 Massachusetts, 24, 28. There
is no right of contribution between joint wrongdoers,
where they are in pari delicto with each other. Churchill
v. Holt, 127 Massachusetts, 165. They are. equally culpable, and the wrong complained of results from their
joint effort."
The cause of action was one arising ex delicto and the
liability of Lewisohn and Bigelow was several as well as
joint. In many cases this court has held that a judgment
without satigfaction against one of two joint trespassers
is no bar to another action against the other for the same
tort. The common law imposes upon-each joint tortfeasor the burden of bearing the entire loss which he, in
coperation with another, has inflicted. The injured
person may sue those who cooperated in the commission
of the tort together, or he may sue them singly. He may
recover against less than all if he sue them jointly, and
may have a judgment for unequal sums against all who
are joined in the suit. Or, if he sue one such wrongdoer
and recover judgment, he is not estopped from suing
another'upon the same facts unless his first judgment has
been fully satisfied. Lovejoy v. Murray, 3 Wall. 1; Sessions
v. Johnson, 95 U. S. 347, 348; The Beaconsfield, 158 U. S.
303.: If Lewisohn and Bigelow were severally liable, and
a judgment against one -without full satisfaction was not
a bar to a suit against the other, it is difficult to see why a
failure to obtain a judgment against one should be an
answer to a suit against the other, who was not a party to
the first suit. That a failure to recover in one suit against
one such tort-feasor is not a bar to a suit in the courts of
another State against another, who was not a party to
the first suit, seems to be supported by considerations of
justice and the Weight of authority.
But did the Massachusetts court deny full faith and
credit to the New York judgment by denying to it the

BIGELOW v. OLD DOMINION COPPER CO. 133
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

effect of estoppel which attached to it in the courts of
New York, or may it determine for itself under principles
of general law whether the judgment. was a bar to the
suit against Bigelow?
The-answer must turn upon the construction and effect
of the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution, and
the act of Congress giving effect thereto. Section 1,
Article IV of the Constitution reads as follows:
"Full faith and Credit shall be given in each State to
the public Acts, Records, and Judicial Proceedings of
every other State. And the Congress may by general
Laws prescribe the Manner in which such Acts, Records
and Proceedings shall be proved, and the Effect thereof."
The act of Congress of May 26; 1790 (1 Stat. 122, c. 11),
now § 905, Revised Statutes, reads as follows:
"The acts of the legislature of any State or Territory,
or of any country subject to the jurisdiction of the United
States, shall be authenticated by having the seals of such
State, Territory, or country affixed thereto. The records
and judicial proceedings of the courts of any State or
Territory, or of any such country, shall be proved or admitted in any other court within the United States, by
the attestation of the clerk, and the seal of the court
annexed, if there be a seal, together with a certificate of
the judge, chief justice, or presiding magistrate, that the
said attestation is in due form. And the said records and
judicial proceedings, So authenticated, shall have such
faith and credit given to them in every court within the
United States as they have by law or usage in the courts
of the State from which they are taken."
The effect of this clause is to put the judgment of. a
court of one State, when sued upon, or pleaded in, estoppel, in the courts of another State, upon the plane of
a domestic judgment in respect of conclusiveness as to
the facts adjudged. But for this provision such state
judgments would stand upon the footing of foreign judg-

.134

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

ments which are examinable when sued on in the courts of
another country, being only prima facie evidence of the
matter adjudged. D'Arcy v. Ketchum, 11 How. 165, 175.
Thus in Hanley v. Donoghue, 116 U. S. 1, 4, it is said:
"Judgments recovered in one State of the Union, when
proved in the courts of, another, differ from judgments
recovered in a foreign country in no other respect than
that of not being re~xaminable upon the merits, nor hnpeachable for fraud in obtaining them, if rendered by a
court having jurisdiction of the cause and of the parties."
Citing Buckner v. Finley, 2 Pet. 592'; MElmoyle v. Cohen,
13 Pet. 312, 324; D'Arcy v. Ketchum, 11 How. 165, 176;
Christmas v. Russell, 5 Wall. 290, 305; Thompson v. Whitman, 18 Wall. 457.
The requirement of full faith and credit is to be read
and interpreted in the light of well-established principles
of justice protected by other constitutional provisions
which it was never intended to modify or override.
It is therefore well settled that the courts of one State
are not required to regard as conclusive any judgment of
the court of another State which had no jurisdiction of
the subject or bf the parties. D'Arcy v. Ketchum,.,ll How.
165; Board of Public Works v. Columbia College, 17 Wall.
521, 528; Thompson v. Whitman, 18 Wall. 457; Hanley
v. Donoghue, 116 U. S. 1, 4; Huntington v. Attrill, 146 U. S.
657, 685; Hall v. Lanning, 91 U. S. 160.
Mr. Justice Story, in his commentaries on the Conflict
of Laws, § 609, says:
:-"It (the Constitution) did not make the judgments of
other states ddmestic judgments to all'intents and purposes, but only gave a 'general validity, faith, and credit
to them as. evidence. No execution can issue upon such
judgments without a new suit in the tribunals of other
states. And they enjoy not the right of priority, or privilege, or lien which they have in the state-Where they are
pronounced, but that only which the lex fori gives to

BIGELOW v. OLD DOMINION COPPER CO.
225 U. S.

135

Opinion of the Court.

them by its own laws in their character of foreign judgments."
The general effect of a judgment of a court of one State
when relied upon as an estoppel in the courts of another
State is that which it has, by law or usage, in the courts of
the State from which it comes. But the faith and credit
to be accorded does not preclude an inquiry into the
jurisdiction of the court which pronounced the judgment,
or its right to bind the persons against whom the judgment
is sought to be enforced.
Referring to the case of Mills v. Duryee, 7 Cranch, 481,
where the language used was supposed to indicate that the
effect to be given to the judgment of one State by the
courts of another was in all respects that which attached
to domestic judgments, Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for
this court in Thompson v. Whitman, 18 Wall. 457, 462,
said that Mills v. Duryee had never been departed from
"where the questions were not questions of jurisdiction.
But where the jurisdiction of the court which rendered
the judgment has been assailed, quite a different view has
prevailed. Justice Story, who pronounced the judgment
in Mills v. Duryee, in his Commentary on the Constitution,
after stating the general doctrine established by that case
with regard to the conclusive effect of judgments of one
State in every other State, adds: 'But this does not prevent
an inquiry into the jurisdiction of the court in which the
original judgment was given, to pronounce it; or the right
of the State itself to exercise authority Over the person or
the subject-matter. The Constitution did not mean to
confer (upon the States) a new power or jurisdiction, but
simply to regulate the effect of the acknowledged jurisdiction over persons and things within their territory."'
The conclusiveness of the judgment relied upon in
Thompson v. Whitman depended upon the locality of a
certain seizure by the authorities of New Jersey under an
act regulating the fisheries of that State. The question

OCTOBERTERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

was whether a record finding of jurisdictional facts could
be contradicted. The holding of the court was that the
jurisdiction could be assailed by evidence of facts contradicting those found to exist by the record pleaded as
an estoppel. That case has since been accepted as determining that the binding effect of a judgment of one State,
when pleaded as an estoppel in the courts of another, is
open to challenge by assailing an officer's return of service,
or the authority of one who assumed to accept service, or
*to enter an appearance, even though the judgment includes a finding of the facts necessary to confer jurisdiction. It would seem to follow that the Massachusetts
court had the legal right to inquire, not only whether
Bigelow was a party to the New York judgment in the
sense that he might have appeared and defended, or appealed from it, but whether the cause of action and the
relation of Bigelow to it, or to the parties, was such that
the New York court could pronounce a judgment which
would bind him, or conclude the plaintiff from suing him
upon the same facts. Knowles v. Gaslight Co., 19 Wall.
58; Cooper v. Newell, 173 U. S. 555, 556.
Bigelow was a citizen of and domiciled in Massachusetts. He was not found within the State of New York.
Indeed, the pleadings in the New York court stated that
he was not sued because he did not reside within the State.
A judgment rendered upon constructive service against
one domiciled within the State may be a good judgment
in personam in that State, though void when sued upon
outside the State. Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714. In
Goldey v. Morning News, 156 U. S. 518, 521, it is said:
"It is an elementary principle of jurisprudence, that a
court of justice cannot acquire jurisdiction over the person
of one who has no residence within its territorial jurisdic-

tion, except by actual service of notice within the jurisdiction upon him or upon some one authorized to accept
service in his behalf, or by his waiver, by general appear-

BIGELOW v. OLD DOMINION COPPER CO.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ance or otherwise, of the want of due service. Whatever
effect a constructive service may be allowed in the courts
of the same government, it cannot be recognized as valid
by the courts of any other government."
See also the thorough discussion of this. question in
Haddock v. Haddock, 201 U. S. 562, 567, 573.
The New York court had no jurisdiction to render a
judgment in personam against Bigelow. He was confessedly not a party. He did not voluntarily appear. He
had no legal right to appear, no right to introduce evidence, control the proceedings, nor appeal from the judgment. To say that nevertheless the judgment rendered
there adverse to the plaintiff in that case may be pleaded
by him as a bar to another suit by the same plaintiff upon
the same facts, because such is the effect of that judgment
by the usage or law of New York, would be to give to the
law of New York an extra-te:rritorial effect, which would
operate as a denial of due process of law. Whatever the
effect of that judgment as an estoppel under the law of
New York, it cannot be held an estoppel in a suit in the
courts of another State between the same plaintiff and a
different defendant who was riLot a party to the first suit.
D'Arcy v. Ketchum, 11 How. 165, is clearly in point.
Under a New York statute a court of that State entered
judgment against a non-resident defendant who was not
served and did not appear. The judgment was entered
under authority of a statute permitting judgment against
joint 'debtors where only one was notified. The nonresident defendant was sued upon this judgment, perfectly good under the decisions of New York, in the courts
of Louisiana. This court,: after full consideration, held
that the jurisdiction of the New York court to render a
personal judgment against a non-resident was open to
inquiry, and that it was not to be given the effect it plainly
had under the law of New York, because that court had
no jurisdiction 'over the person of the defendant. This

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

case was followed in Board of Public Works v. Columbia
College, 17 Wall. 521, 527, which involved the effect of a
joint judgment against five persons as joint debtors, two
of whom were non-residents, and were not served and did
not appear. This judgment was held not to be evidence
against the partners who had not appeared. Touching
the effect of that judgment, this court said:
"It is sufficient for the disposition of this case that the
judgment is not evidence of any personal liability of
Withers outside of New York. It was rendered in that
State without service of process upon him, or his appearance in the action. Personal judgments thus rendered
have no operation out of the limits of the State where
rendered. Their effects are merely local. Out of the
State they are nullities, not binding upon the non-resident
*defendant, nor establishing any claim against him. Such
is the settled law of this country, asserted in repeated
adjudications of this court and of the state courts."
"The judgment in New York, it is true, is a joint judgment against all of the partners, against those summoned
by publication as well as those who were served with
process or appeared, but-this joint character cannot affect
the question of its validity as respects those not served.
The clause of the Federal Constitution which requires full
faith and credit to be given in each State to the records
and judicial proceedings of every other State, applies to
the records and proceedings of courts only so far as they
have jurisdiction. Wherever they want jurisdiction the
records are not entitled to credit."
fHall v. Lanning, 91 U. S. 160, was an action in a United
States court for the District of Illinois upon a New York
judgment against a New York partnership. It appeared
that the suit in which the judgment sued upon was obtained was against all of the members of a firm upon a
joint liability. The members of the partnership who were
residents and were actually served assumed the right to

BIGELOW v. OLD DOMINION COPPER CO.
225 U. S.

139

Opinion of the Court.

enter the appearance of certain non-residents, who were
not and could not be notified. In the action upon this
joint judgment one of the defendants claimed the right to
deny the jurisdiction of the New York court to pronounce
a judgment against him upon the ground that he had not
been summoned, had not personally appeared and was
not concluded by an appearance entered for him by his
co-partners, the firm having theretofore been dissolved.
The case was distinguishable from D'Arcy v. Ketchum and
Board of Public Works v. Columbia College, because the
partners actually served assumed authority to enter the
appearance of the non-residents who were not served.
The debt sued upon was a partnership debt. The contention was that the relation of partnership conferred upon
partners, even after dissolution, the right to appear for
their co-partners in a suit against the firm. As a question
of general law, this court held that although the judgment
was valid under the laws and usage of New York, at the
common law no such right existed after dissolution and
that the requirement of full faith and credit did not compel the courts of another State to give effect to the judgment as against the non-resident member of the firm who
had not been served.
From these cases it is clear that the conclusive effect of
a judgment in per~sonam which is to be recognized when
questioned in the courts of another State depends upon
whether it is the judgment of a court which had jurisdiction over the person of the defendant sought to be bound.
The estoppel here insisted upon is grounded not upon
actual notice or appearance, but upon a theory as to the
relation between joint tort-feasors under the laws of New
York. If the Massachusetts court was of opinion that
under the general law that relationship was not such as to
make Bigelow a party by either privity or representation,
it was under no obligation to treat the New York judgment as a bar to the suit in which it was pleaded.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

The binding effect of the judgment sued upon in Hall
v. Lanning, cited above, turned upon the implied power
of one member of a dissolved firm to enter the appearance
of his non-resident partners in a suit upon a joint debt.
Under the decisions of the New York courts such a judgment bound the members whose appearance was so entered. But this court held that full faith and credit was
not denied by a determination of the power of one partner
to so enter the appearance of a non-resident partner and
held that no such power existed.
In Bagley v. GeneralFireExtinguisherCo., 212 U. S. 477,
480, the facts were these: A tenant recovered judgment
against his landlord resulting from the melting of sprinkler
heads in an automatic sprinkler put up in plaintiff's building by the defendant. The plaintiff gave the defendant
notice to defend, which it ignored. The suit was to re-,
cover the money so paid by the landlord. It was claimed
that negligence in construction was made out by the judgment rendered against the plaintiff in favor of the tenant
in a court of the State of Michigan. That judgment was
relied upon as estopping the defendant, who it was claimed
had notice, and was, under its contract, bound to defend.
The court said:
"The defendant was no party to that judgment, and
there is nothing in the Constitution to give it any force as
against strangers. If the judgment binds the defendant
it is not by its own operation, even with the Constitution
behind it, but by an estoppel arising out of the defendant's
contract with the plaintiff and the notice to defend. The
ground of decision in both courts below was that there
was no such estoppel, the duty and responsibility of the
defendant being limited by the words that we have
quoted from the contract, excluding any obligation other
than those set forth. The decision, in other words, turned
wholly on the construction of the contract as excluding a
liability over in the event that happened. Even if wrong,

BIGELOW v. OLD DOMINION COPPER CO.
225 U. S.

141

Opinion of the Court.

it did not deny the Michigan judgments their full effect,
but denied the preliminary relation between the defendant
and the party to them, without which the defendant remained a stranger to them, in. spite of the notice to defend."
In support of the contention that the full faith and
credit clause gives to this judgment the effect, as an estoppel, which would be given to it in New York, counsel
have cited the case of Hancock Nat. Bk. v. Farnum, 176
U. S.640, 643, where it is said that the "local effect must
be recognized everywhere." But that was said in respect
of a Kansas judgment in favor of a creditor of a Kansas
corporation, in a suit by the creditor in another State
against a stockholder of the Kansas corporation to subject
him to liability as a shareholder to an amount equal to
his stock. But under the law of Kansas and the general
law a stockholder is represented by the corporation in all
actions against the corporation for corporate liabilities.
The stockholder is by the very law of corporate existence
an integral part of the corporation, and is bound by a
judgment against it in respect of any matter within the
scope of corporate powers. See Glenn v. Liggett, 135 U. S.
533; Great Western Telegraph Co. v. Purdy, 162 U. S. 329,
336. In the FarnumCase, as in all cases of that class, there
is a privity in interest and a representation in law of the
stockholder by the corporation of which he is a member.
The conclusiveness of such a judgment as binding each
stockholder does not, however, extend to matters in
which the corporation cannot be said to represent him.
Thus it is said in the Farnum Case:
"We do not mean that it is conclusive as against any
individual sued as a stockholder that he is one, or if one,
that he has not already discharged by payment to some
other creditor of the corporation the full measure of his
liability, or that he has not claims against the corporation,
or judgments against it, which he may, in law or equity,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

225 U. S.

as any debtor, whether by judgment or otherwise, set off
against a claim or judgment, but in other respects it is
an adjudication binding him. He is so far a part of the
corporation that he is represented by it in the' action
against it."
There is no parallel between the relation of joint tortfeasors and that of a stockholder to his corporation. In
the latter case, the stockholder, by the organic law of his
corporation, is a member and represented by it so long as
it keeps within its corporate powers. In the other instance
one wrongdoer when sued does not represent those not
sued, although they had coperated in thewrong and were
both liable.
The conclusion we reach is that the Massachusetts
court did not deny full faith and credit to the New York
judgment, and its decrees are therefore
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES took no part in the hearing or
consideration of these cases.

STALKER v. OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IDAHO.
No. 225.

Argued April 24, 1912.-Decided May 27, 1912.

The act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 482, c. 152, granting rights of way
and station grounds for railroads through the public lands was a
grant in prcesenti of lands to be thereafter identified. Railroad Co.
v. Jones, 177 U. S. 125.
The right of way becomes definitely located by actual construction,
which is unmistakable evidence and notice of appropriation.
A selection and location of station grounds under the act of March 3,
1875, filed with the Secretary of the Interior after construction of the

