OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllbus.

225 U. S.

the theory that the freight train did not stop after clearing the crossing but continuedr in a southerly direction,
thereby giving promise that the obstruction to the view
along the tracks on that side of the crossing would quickly
disappear. But a careful examination of the record
satisfies us that there was evidence from which the jury
could well have found that the train came to a full stop
about 150 feet south of the crossing before Mrs. Flannelly
started to cross over. If it did, she hardly could be
declared negligent for failing to await its further movements, of which she knew nothing. Besides, if the action
of her horse was as described, she ought not to be charged
with negligence in not anticipating it.
Other questions were discussed at bar and in the briefs,
but as, in the view which we take of the evidence examined
by the Circuit Court of Appeals, the judgment of the
Circuit Court should have been affirmed, the other questions need not be considered.
Judgment reversed.

WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. WAGNER ELECTRIC AND
MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 179.

Argued March 1, 1912.-Deided June 7, 1912.

Where the infringer has sold or used a patented article, the patentee is
entitled to recdver all of the profits.
Where a patent, though using old elements, gives the entire value to
the combination, the patentee is entitled to recover from an infringer
all the profits.
Where profits are made by using an article patented as an entirety, the
infringer is liable for -all the profits, unless he can show, and the

WESTINGHOUSE CO. v. WAGNER MFG. CO.
225 U. S.

605

Statement of the Case.

burden is oniiim, that the profits are partly the result of some other
things used by-him. Elizabeth v, Pavement Co., 97 U. S. 126.
Where the patent admittedly creates only a part of the profits, the
patentee is only entitled to that part and he must apportion the infringer's profits and'show by reliable and satisfactory evidence either
what part of the profits are attributable to his patent or that the
entire value of the infringing article is attributable to his patent.Garretson V. Clark,.111 U. S. 120.

Congress has legislated, Rev. Stat., § 4921, with a view to affording
the patentee ample redress against the infringer, but the general
rule of law that the burden is on the one suing for profits to show
that they had been made applies.
The patent itself is evidence of the utility of the claim and an infringer
is estopped from denying that it is of value.
Where the plaintiff patentee shows that profits have been made by the
use of his patent, but defendant proves that there were other elements contributing.to the profits, it then dcvolves upon the plaintiff
to apportion the amount of profits attributable to the use of his
patent.

Where the infringer, however, by commingling the elements renders
',it impossible for the patentee to meet the requirement of apportionment, the entire inseparable profit must be given to the patentee.
In such a case, as in that of a trustee ex maleficio confusing gains,
the loss should fall on the guilty and not on the innocent.
This rule applies even if the patented device infringed did not preponderate the creation of profits. The owner of a small part of a
fund is equally entitled to protection as the owner of a larger share.
While the rule applied may ultimately shift the burden so as to cast
it on the defendant, it is justly cast upon one who should bear it,
as he wrought the confusion.
Where on reversal, a decree for appellant would deprive appellee of the
right to ruling on exceptions taken by him to the master's report
which were not passed on by the court, and it appears that other
questions of law were not passed on below, and also that material
evidence was omitted, the case will be remanded with power to hear
and determine on new-testimony and for further proceedings not
inconsistent with the opinion.
173 Fed. Rep. 361, reversed.

current produced by an electric generator is -of
relatively low pressure, and for that reason it is impracticable to utilize it, for power purposes, more than five or
THE

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

225 U. S.'

six miles from the central station. It was found, however, that this pressure, or voltage, could be increased
by the use of a transformer or converter, consisting of
a metal core, through and around which are wound
primary. insulated wires leading from the generator.
Secondary wires, also insulated, are wound through and
around the same core, and -carried thence to the point
of application. The voltage is increased or decreased
according as the secondary wires are wrapped around the
core more or less frequently than the primary wires.
One of the consequences of thus transforming the
current is the generation of heat. In small machines
this is corrected by radiation, but in large ones the heat
"ages" the iron, lessens the efficiency of the transformer
and, in time, deteriorates the insulation around the wires.
This latter result causes short circuits, makes it impracticable to take advantage of the increased voltage, and
thus again restricts the area in which currents of more
than 10 K. W. can be used for producing light and power.
112 Fed. Rep. 417.
Many efforts were made to overcome this difficulty,
but without success until July 12,1887, when George Westinghouse, Jr., secured patent 366,362 for an "Electrical
Converter," which, his application stated, was intended
to prevent the converter becoming "overheated when
employed for a long' time in transforming currents of
high electro motive force." Extracts from the specifications and claims are copied in the margin. 1
1 "The core is preferably composed of thin plates of soft iron
separated individually or in pairs from each other by thin sheets of
paper or other insulating material. . . .. The plates are preferably
constructed with two rectangular openings through which the wires

pass. . . ..

Each group of-say five or six plates-is preferably

separated from the succeeding group by air spaces. These may be
produced by passing tubes,'which may be of soft iron or other metal, or
of vulcanized fibre, along the lengths of the plates. It may be sufficient
in other cases to block the group of plates apart at intervalsinstead of

WESTINGHOUSE CO. v. WAGNER MFG. CO. 607
225 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Referring specially to the specifications and Claim 4,
which is here involved, and speaking generally rather than
technically, it will be seen thai; the transformer consisted
of a core, composed of groups of thin metal plates, so
plugged apart as to leave (a) open spaces in the core. The
primary and secondary wires were wound through rectangular openings near the ends of these plates. The
entire apparatus was then placed in a case filled with
non-conducting oil, which, when heated, circulated in and
around the transformer, being cooled by contact with
the exterior surface of the erLclosing box or receptacle.
This invention proved to be of immense value and made it
possible (112 Fed. Rep. 417, 422; 117 Fed. Rep. 495,
498) to transmit and apply powerful currents so as to
produce power and light at a great distance from the
generating plant. The patent was utilized by the Union
Carbide Co., and on May 10, 1900, the Westinghouse
Electric & Manufacturing Company as assignee of George
Westinghouse sued that Company for infringing Claim 4.
The transformers which the Carbide Company was using
had been sold by the Wagner Company. As vendor and
extending the tubes the entire length. Preferably also the primary and
secondary coils are separated from each other in a similar manner."
Where the converter is to be used in the open air, the tube will permit a free circulation of air and thus aid in keeping the converter cool.
It may be preferred in some instances to surround the converter
with some oil, or paraffine or other suitable material, which will assist
,in preserving insulating and will not be injured by heating. This
material when in a liquid form circulates through the tubes and intervening spaces of the coils and plates, and preserves the insulation, excludes the moisture, and-cools the converter.
The entire converter may be sealed into an inclosing case .
which may or may not contain a non-conducting fluid or gas.
. .
"Iclaim as my invention . . 1 . . ;2 . .;
4. The combination, substantially as described, of an electric converter constructed with open spaces in its core, an inclosing ease, and
a non-conducting fluid or gas in said case adapted to circulate through
said spaces and about the converter."

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

225 U. S.

warrantor the latter therefore defended and admits that
the decree (112 Fed. Rep. 417) of November 11, 1901,
sustaining the validity of Claim 4, is, as to it, res adjudicata.
That decree was affirmed April 29, 1902 (117 Fed. Rep.
495), and on June 24, 1902, the Westinghouse Company
brought this suit (129 Fed. Rep. 604) against the Wagner'
Company, praying for damages and profits, and also
for an injunction against further infringement.
It appeared that after the decree in the Carbide Case
the Wagner Company had instructed its experts to build
a transformer that would not infringe the Westinghouse
patent. They thereupon devised one, referred to herein
as Type M, which omitted the (a) open spaces in the core,
but substituted (b) spaces between the coil, and (c) spaces
between the coil and the core.
The court held that these Type M Transformers eliminating spaces in the core were not an infringement of
Claim 4 and thereupon refused the injunction. 129 Fed.
Rep. 604. But the defendant in its answer admitted that
it had infringed Claim 4 by the manufacture of transformers, which, as it subsequently developed, contained
openings (a) in the core, and also (b) openings between
the coils, and (c) between the coil and core. The case
was therefore referred to a Master to state an account of
damages and profits arising from the infringement of
Claim 4 prior to June 24, 1902.
On the hearing it appeared that the Wagner Company
manufactured various electrical appliances that had been
made in the same shop, by the same workmen and under
the same general superintendence as that employed in
making the transformers. No account had been kept
which would §how the cost of labor and shop expenses
attributable to these transformers. Nor was there anything on the books indicating what, if any, profit -had
been realized from their sales.
The gross receipts of $2,314,744.75 were mingled. The

WESTINGHOUSE CO. v. WAGNER MFG. CO. 609
225 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

books only showed a gross profit of about eight per
cent., but it appeared that the plant had grown and the
business had extended during the period covered by the
accounting. There was testimony that the company had
the general policy of fixing prices at a figure which would
net twenty-five per cent. The Master made an elaborate
analysis of the data as to flat cost of labor and material,
shop expenses and commissions applicable to the transformers. From this data and the policy of the company
he ultimately reached-the conclusion that the company
had made a profit of $132,433 on the $955,271.76 which
the books showed had been received from the sale of
several thousand infringing transformers. But at the
close of the plaintiff's testimony the defendant demurred
to the evidence on the ground that it failed to show that
any profit had been made in the sale of the infringing
transformers. The demurrer was overruled. The defendant then claimed that the infringing transformers
contained elements of the patent which were not embraced
in Claim 4, for which alone this suit was proceeding, and
that no profit due to those elements could be recovered
in this case, unless the plaintiff apportioned. the gains
due solely to Claim 4. It also offered evidence, including
a heat test, tending to support its contention that a
transformer, containing only the elements covered by
Claim 4, was of little utility; that it operated mainly
to reduce the heat in the core, when it was much more
important to keep the coils cool; that the infringing
.transformers contained spaces (b) between the coils and
(c) between coil and core which, it contended, were additions and non-infringing improvements, contributing to
the profits, if any had been made.
In reply and to disprove the defendant's contention,
the plaintiff relied among other things on the fact that
upon the hearing of the application to-enjoin the defendant
from manufacturing transformers containing only (b)
VOL. ccxxv-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

225 U. S.

spaces between the coil and (c) between coil and core, the
Wagner Company had contended that these grooves or
channels had been used to avoid infringement, although
they "crippled the coils" and actually "lessened the
erebctrical efficiency of the transformers."
At the conclusion of the lengthy testimony, the substance of which is barely outlined above, the Master
found from the evidence and under the decision in 117
Fed. Rep. 498 binding on defendant, that Claim 4 was an
entirety, covering not only open spaces in the core, but
the use of the oil in a closed, receptacle, for cooling the
transformer; that all of the commercial value of those sold
by the defendant was due to the use of Claim 4 of plaintiff's patent and not to additions made by the defendant.
He recommended that a decree should be entered against
the defendant for $132,433.35, "being approximately 25
per cent on the net amount of the sales of infringing transformers after deducting commissions and fixing the factory
cost at 40 per cent."
The defendant filed many exceptions, among others:
"That the complainant has'not shown what was the
profit made by defendant on its transformers due to the
patented invenion of Claim 4, as distinguished and segregated from the other features contained in said transformers."
There were also numerous exceptions as to the Master's
method of stating the account. These and others were not
-specifically passed on because the Circuit Court and the
Circuit Court of Appeals (one judge dissenting) held,
173 Fed. Rep. 361, that Claim 4 was a limited detailed
claim; that the additions made by the defendant were
non-infringing and valuable improvements which contributed tot the profits; that the burden of apportionment
was upon plaintiff, and, having failed to separate the
profits, it 'Was only entitled to a decree for nominal damages. The court (one judge dissenting) also affirmed
-

WESTINGHOUSE CO. v. WAGNER MFG. CO. 611
225 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

the decree that Type M was not an infringement of
Claim 4.
Mr. Thomas B. Kerr and Mr. Paul Bakewell for petitioner.
Mr. Melville Churchfor respondent:
Complainant's. conduct in delaying its assertion of a
construction of the claim broad enough to include defendant's modified device -presents a case of equitable
estoppel. Lane & Bodley Co. v. Locke, 150 U. S. 193-200;
McLean v. Fleming, 96 U. S.245; Menendez v. Holt, 128
Ue.S. 519; Richards v. Mackall, 124 U. S. 183; Godden v.
Kimmel, 99 U. S. 201; Galliher v. Cadwell, 145 U. S. 368372; Gildersleeve v. New Mexico Mining Co., 161 U. S.
573-578; McLaughlin v. People's Ry. Co., 21 Fed. Rep.
574; York v. Passaic&c. Co., 30 Fed. Rep. 471; Westinghouse Air Brake Co. v. N. Y. Air Brake Co., 111 Fed. Rep.
741.
Claim 4 of the Westinghouse patent in suit is limited
to a transformer having open spaces between the groups
of core plates. The defendant's transformers in the
Carbide case had such open spaces between the 'groups
of core plates. Properly construed, the opinion of the
court in the Carbide case limits the claim to such an
arrangement of core spaces. The exigency required no
broader interpretation' This limited interpretation was
found and followed by Judges Bradford, Kirkpatrick,
Amidon and Adams, on the Circuit, and by Judges Van
Devanter and Riner in the Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit.
No injunction can now issue, the patent having expired
and an accounting should be refused. McLean v. Fleming,
96 U. S. 245; Menendez v. Holt, 128 U. S. 514; Woodmense
& Hewitt Mfg. Co. v. Williams, 15 C. C. A. 520; Price v.
Steel Co., 46 Fed. Rep. 107; Low v. Fels, 35 Fed. Rep. 361;
Cohn v. Gottschalk, 2 N. Y. Supp. 13.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Respondent.

225 U. S.

Defendant does not contend that the Westinghouse
improvement was of no value, but of very slight value:
and does contend that the burden was upon complainant
in the accounting to show that value in dollars and cents.
To justify an award to complainant it must appear that
defendant realized a profit from using the invention of
Claim 4 over and above what it would have realized by
using that which was open to it and which it had a right
to use. Calkins v. Bertand, 8 Fed. Rep. 755-760; Maier
v. Brown, 17 Fed. Rep. 736; Reed v. Lawrence, 29 Fed.
Rep. 915; Mowry v. Whitney, 14 Wall. 620; Littlefield v.
Perry,21 Wall. 205.
The general rule is that the burden of proof is on complainant to show profit due to a patented improvement.
Garretson v. Clark, 111 U. S. 120; Tomkinson v. Willets
Mfg. Co., 34 Fed. Rep. 536; Mosher v. Joyce, 51 Fed. Rep.
441; Robbins v. Illinois Watch Co., 81 Fed. Rep. 957;
Wales v. Waterbury Mfg. Co., 101 Fed. Rep. 182; Brickill v.
Mayor of N. Y., 112 Fed. Rep. 65; Lattimore v. Hardsogg
Mfg. Co., 121 Fed. Rep. 986; Cary Mfg. Co. v. De Haven,
139 Fed. Rep. 62; Westinghouse Air Brake Co. v. N. Y.
Air Brake Co., 140 Fed. Rep. 545; Force v. Sawyer-Boss
Mfg. Co.,' 143 Fed. Rep. 894.
The defendant showed affirmatively no substantial
difference between the infringing and non-infringing transformers and the complainant did not prove the value of
the slight difference, though the burden of proof was
upon complainant. Garretson v. Clark, 111 U. S. 120;
Keystone Mfg. Co. v. Adams, 151 U. S. 145; Canda Bros.
v. Mich &c., 81.C. C. A. 420-423.
Complainant offered no evidence to rebut or contradict
defendant's evidence as to t1e value of things defendant
was free to use.
From no point of view is defendant estopped to show
the degree of utility of the improvement covered by
Claim 4. Gibbs v. Hoefner, 19 Fed. Rep. 332; Lamb Knit

WESTINGHOUSE CO. v. WAGNER MFG. CO. 613
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Goods Co. v. Lamb Glove & M. Co. (C. C. A.), 120 Fed. Rep.
272; International Tooth Crovm Co. v. Hanks &c. (C.
C. A.), 111 Fed. Rep. 920; Lee v. Pillsbury, 49 Fed. Rep.
750.
The decree in the Carbide Case was interlocutory and
not final and the matters therein covered are not, therefore, res judicata. Perkins v. Fourniquet, 6 How. 206;
Keystone Iron Co. v. Martin, 132 U. S. 91-94; McGourkey
v. Toledo &c., 146 U. S. 536; Rumford Chemical Works v.
Hecker, Fed. Cases, No. 12133; Harmon v. Struthers, 48
Fed. Rep. 260; Morss v. Knapp, 37 Fed. Rep. 351; Roemer
v. Neumann, 26 Fed. Rep. 332; David Bradley Mfg. Co.
v. Eagle Mfg. Co., 58 Fed. Rep. 721.
Estoppel must be certain to every intent. Russell v.
Place, 94 U. S. 606.
It is doubtful if complainant can urge res judicata in
this court. Defendant could not bring the Carbide Case
to this court for review. If complainant brings the judgment in that case before this-court and invokes it, it may
be reviewed by this court.
The prior act shown by the record may be examined
as an aid in the interpretation of Claim 4, despite all the
judgments that have been rendered under the patent in
suit by the courts below. Vance v. Campbell, 1 Black,
427; Brown v. Piper, 91 U. S. 37; Dunbar v. Meyers, 94
U. S. 187; Eachus v. Broomall, 115 U. S. 429.
Complainant does not here contend that, defendant's
modified device is within Claim 4, which is an admission
of the limited character of the claim.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR, after making the foregoing statement of the case, delivered the opinion of the court.

The statute makes the decisin of the Circuit Court of
Appeals final in patent cases, and the plaintiff's petition
for the writ of certiorari herein was not granted for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

purpose of reixamining the court's ruling that defendant's Type M Transformer was not an infringement of
Claim 4 of the Westinghouse patent. The writ was issued
in view of the holding that, though the Master found
that the defendant had made a profit of $132,000 from
the sale of infringing transformers, the plaintiff could yet
only recover. $1 because it failed to separate the profits
made by its patent from those made by the defendant's
addition.
1. The qestion as to who has the burden of proof; in
cases like this, is one of great practical importance and
constantly arises in patent cases. There has been much
controversy on the subject and a conflict in the decisions.
The authorities cited in the briefs of the two litigants,and
others bearing on the subject, have been examined, but
we shall not undertake to separately review them, for
they disagree not so much as to the rule as to its application. It will be sufficient for the present purposes to say
that(a) Where the infringer has sold or used a patented
article, the plaintiff is entitled to recover all of the'profits.
(b) Where a patent, though using old elements, gives
the entire value to the combination, the plaintiff is entitled
to recover all the profits. Hurlbut v. Schillinger, 130 U. S.
456, 472.'
(c) Where profits are made by the use of an article
patented as an entirety, the infringer is liable for all the
profits "unless he can show-'and the burden is on him to
show-that a portion of them is the result of some other
.thing used by him." Elizabeth v. Pavement Co., 97 U. S.
126:.
(d) But there are many cases in which the plaintiff's
patent is only a part of the machine and creates only a
part of the profits. His invention may have been used in
combination with, valuable improvements- made, or other
patents appropriated by the infringer, and each may have

WESTINGHOUSE CO. v. WAGNER MFG. CO. 615
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

jointly, but unequally, contributed to the profits. In
such case, if plaintiff's patent only created a part of the
profits, he is only entitled to recover that part of the net
gains. He must, therefore, "give evidence tending to
separate or apportion the defendant's profits and the
patentee's damages between the patented feature and the
unpatented features, and such evidence must be reliable
and tangible, and not conjectural or speculative; or he
must show, by equally reliable and satisfactory evidence,
that the profits and damages are to be calculated on the
whole machine, for the reason that the entire value of the
whole machine, as a marketable article, is properly and
legally attributable to the patented feature." Garretson
v. Clark; 111 U. S. 120.
The real controversy arises in- applying this principle
to those cases where it is impossible to separate the single
profit into its component parts.
2. In considering the question presented by the record
here, it is to be borne in mind that Cengress has legislated (Rev. Stat., § 4921) with a view of affording the
patentee ample redress against the infringer. It not only
makes the latter liable for damages--sometimes three-fold
damages-but for all profits derived from the use or sale
of plaintiff's invention. The rule as to the burden of proof
has, however, been so applied that this statutory right
has been often nullified by those infringers who had ingenuity enough to smother the patent with improvements
belonging to themselves or to third persons. In such
cases the greater the wrong the greater the immunity;
the greater the. number of improvements the greater the
difficulty of separating the profits. And if that difficulty
could only be converted into an impossibility the defendant retained all of the gains, because the injured patentee
could not separate what the guilty infringer had made
impossible of separation.
Manifestly such consequences demonstrate that either

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

the rule or its application is wrong. The rule is sound, for
it but announces the general proposition that the plaintiff
must prove its case and carry the burden imposed by law
upon every person seeking to recover money or property
from another. But the principle must not be pressed so
far as to override others equally important in the administration of justice. It may serve to illustrate the rule
and its limitations, if, at the risk of stating the obvious,
we apply it to the various steps of this case.
The plaintiff proved its patent and that it had been infringed by the defendant in the manufacture of several
thousand transformers which sold for $955,000. The
patent was itself evidence of the utility of Claim 4, and
the defendant was estopped from denying that it was of
value. Lehnbeuter v. Holthaus, 105 U. S. 94. But no
matter how great its presumptive or actual value it did
not follow that the defendant had made a profit by the
sale of the infringing transformers. And so, having sued
for profits, the Westinghouse Company was under the
burden of showing they had been made. This it did to
the satisfaction of the Master, who found that the defendant had netted $132,000 from their sale.
The defendant then had the right either to disprove
the plaintiff',s case or to offer evidence in mitigation, or
both. Accordingly it submitted evidence tending to show
that the spaces added by the defendants were noninfringing and valuable improvements which had contributed to the making of the profits. In reply the Westinghouse Company insisted that Claim 4 was an entirety,
covering a circulatory system in and around a transformer
placed in an oil-filled receptacle; that it embraced the
"intervening spaces in the coil" because at least a part of
the coil was in the coie; that if these spaces were held not
to be infringements they had in fact, as employed by
-the defendant, added nothing to the profits, but on the
contrary had crippled the coil and lessened the electrical

WESTINGHOUSE CO. v. WAGNER MFG. CO. 617
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

efficiency of the transformer. 129 Fed. Rep. 607. For
that reason the plaintiff contended that it had shown that
all the gains were "legally attributable to the patented
feature." Garretson v. Clark, 111 U. S. 120; Elizabeth v.
Pavement Co., 97 U. S. 127 (6); Crosby Valve Co. v. Safety
Valve Co., 141 U. S. 441, 454; Keystone Mfg. Co. v. Adams,
151 U. S. 139, 144-145. This view was sustained by the
Master. But if it be assumed, as was found to be the fact
by the court, that the spaces were non-infringing and val-1
uable improvements, it may then have prima facie appeared that these changes had contributed to the profits.
If so, the burden of apportionment was then logically on
the plaintiff, since it was only entitled to recover such
part of the commingled profits as was attributable to the
use of its invention.
3. Lindley, L. J., said in Siddell v. Vickers, 9 Rep. Pat.
Cases, 162, that there "was no form of account more difficult to work out than an account of profits." But that is
no reason why the plaintiff should be denied its rights.
The problem here, though different, was in many respects
analogous to that presented in those cases in which it is
necessary to separate the interstate from the intrastate
earnings made by a railroad where the same track, rolling
stock, depots and labor are employed at the same time in
making gross receipts. These commingled expenses must
be apportioned between the two classes of earnings in
order to determine whether the intrastate rate is confiscatory. The courts, "while recognizing the impossibility
of reaching a conclusion that is mathematically exact,"
have, in addition to all the other evidence bearing on the
question, received "the testimony of experts as to the
relative cost of doing a local and through business."
Chicago, M. & St. P. R. Co. v. Tompkins, 176 U. S. 167,
178. The converse is true. What is permissible in an
effort to separate costs may also be done in a patent case
where it is necessary to separate profits. Root v. Lake

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

Shore & M. S. Railway Co., 105 U. S. 189, 198. See also
Rubber Co. v. Goodyear, 9 Wall. 802. In effect, this was

attempted in the present case. Witnesses who had been
in the employment of the defendant and who had kept the
books, purchased the material, superintended the construction and fixed the price of the transformers, were not
able to show that profits had been made, and conse
quently were not able to show what part of the profits
was attributable to the patent and what to the additions,
if found to be non-infringing and valuable improvements.
4. Having; by books and other data, proved to the satisfaction of the Master the existence of profits, the plaintiff
had carried the burden imposed by law, and established
every element necessary to entitle it to a decree, except
one. As to that, the act of the defendant had made it not
merely difficult but impossible to carry the burden of apportionment. But plaintiff offered evidence tending to
establish a legal equivalent. It had proved the existence
of a fact which, whether treated as a rule of evidence or
as a matter of substantive law, would entitle it to a decree for all the profits. The method was different from
that mentioned in the second branch of the rule in the
Garretson Case, 111 U. S. 120, but the plaintiff had now
presented proof to demonstrate its right to the whole of
the fund because of the fact that the defendant had inex'tricably commingled and confused the parts composing
it. This result would not be in conflict with the principle
which in the first instance imposed the burden of proof
on the plaintiff, but merely gave legal effect to a new fact
which as a matter of law entitles the patentee to a particular judgment. It presented a case where the court was
called on to determine the liability of a trustee ex maleficio,
who had confused his own gains with those which belonged
to the plaintiff. One party or the other must suffer. The
inseparable profit must be given to the patentee or in-

WESTINGHOUSE CO. . WAGNER MFG. CO. 619
225 U. S.

Opinion of lihe Court.

fringer. The loss had to fall on the innocent or the guilty.
In such an alternative the law places the loss on the wrongdoer.
5. It is said, however, that the rule does not 'apply to
patent cases. Why it should be limited does not appear.
It is admitted that an injunction may be granted against
selling infringing devices, even though the result will be to
prevent the defendant from using valuable appliances confused with the patented device. And Lord Eldon treated
this conceded right to enjoin as an application of the rule
relating to the confusion of goods. He therefore restrained
the publication of a book, a 'large portion of which was
original, because copyright matter Iwas incorporated
therein,, saying in Mawman v. Tegg, 2 Russ. 385, 390':
"As to the hard consequences which would follow from
granting an injunction, when a very large .proportion of
the work is unquestionably original, I can only say, that,
if the parts, which have been copied, cannot be seplarated
from those which are original, without destroying the use
and value of the original matter, he who has made an
improper use of that which did not belong to him must
suffer the consequendes of so doing."
This case was cited and approved in Callaghan v. Myers,
128 U. S. 617, 658, where the infringer who had blended
his own with copyright matter, in a volume which sold
for a profit, was made to "abide the consequences on the
same principle that he who has wrongfully produced a
confusion of goods must alone suffer." In one of these
cases the original matter was less, and in the other more,
than that unlawfully appropriated. In both, as in patent
cases, the infringer was a "trustee for the plaintiff in
respect of profits." Root v. Lake Shore & M. S. Railway,
105 U. S. 189, 214. And the liability is not lessened because the confusion is due to a wrongful appropriation
by a trustee de son tort instead of carelessndss of a trustee
lawfully appointed. Nor is it limited to those cases where

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

the patented device is shown to have preponderated in
the creation of the profits. The owner of a small part of
the fund is as much entitled to the protection of the law
as the owner of a larger share. The rule, however, is not
intended to penalize the infringer, nor to give the patentee
profits to which he is clearly not entitled. So that where,
by general evidence, expert testimony or otherwise, it is
shown that his patent is of relatively small value, it will
often be possible to prove that, at the utmost, it could not
have contributed to more than a given amount of the
profits. Lupton v. White, 15 Vesey Jr. 432-440. In such
cases, except possibly against one who had concealed or
destroyed evidence or been guilty of gross wrong, the
plaintiff's recovery cannot exceed the amount thus proved,
even though it be impossible otherwise more precisely to
apportion the profits.
6. But when a case of confusion does appear-when it
is impossible to make a mathematical or approximate
apportionment-then from the very necessity of the case
one party or the other must secure the entire fund. It
must be kept by the infringer, or it must be awarded, by
law,. to the patentee. On established principles of equity,
and on the plainest principles of justice, the guilty trustee
cannot take advantage of his own wrong. The fact that
he may lose something of his own is a misfortune which
he has brought upon himself; and if, as argued, the fund
may have been made by the use of other patents also, for
which he may be liable in another case, it is again a misfortune which he has brought upon himself and an instance of a double wrong causing double liability. He
cannot appeal to a court of conscience to cast the loss upon
an innocent patentee and by judicial decree repeal the
piovision of Rev. Stat., § 4921, which declares that in case
of infringement the complainant shall be entitled to'recover the "profits to be accounted for by the defendant."
This conclusion is said to be in conflict with the Garret-

WESTINGHOUSE CO. v. WAGNER MFG. CO. 621
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

son and other decisions which, it is claimed, justify the
conclusion that the defendant is entitled to retain all, of
the profits even where the patentee is unable to make an
apportionment. Warren v. Keep, 155 U. S. 265. An
analysis of the facts of those cases will show that they do
not sustain so extreme a doctrine. For they deal with instances where the plaintiff apparently relied on the theory
that the burden was on the defendant, and for that, or
other reasons, made no attempt whatever to separate the
profits. None of the cases cited discuss the rights of the
patentee who has exhausted all available means of apportionment, who has resorted to the books and employes
of the defendant, and by them, or expert testimony
proved, that it was impossible to make a separation of the
profits. This distinction, between difficulty and impossibility, is involved in the ruling by the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit in Brennan & Co. v. Dowagiac Mfg. Co., 162 Fed. Rep. .72,,476, where the Garretson
Case was distinguished, and the court said:
"In the present case the infringer's conduct has been
such as to preclude the belief that it has derived no advantage from the use of plaintiff's invention. . . . In
these circumstances, upon-whom is the burden of loss to
fall? We think the law answers this question by declaring
that it shall rest upon the wrongdoer, who has so confused
his own with that of another that neither can be distinguished. It is a bitter response' for the court to say to the
innocent party, 'You have failed to make the necessary
proof to enable us to decide how much of these profits are
your own;' for the party knows, and the court must see,
that such a requirement is impossible to be complied with.
'The proper remedy to be applied in such cases is that
stated by Chancellor Kent in Hart v. Ten Eyck, 2 Johns.
Ch. (N. Y.) 62, 108, Where he said: 'The rule of law and
All
equity is strict and severe on such occasion.
the inconvenience of the confusion is thrown upon the
.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

party who produces it, and it is for him to distinguish

his own property or lose it.'"
It may be argued that, in its last analysis, this is but an-

other way of saying that the burden of proof is on the defendant. And no doubt such, in the end, will be the practical result in many cases. But such burden is not imposed
by law; nor is it so shifted until after the plaintiff has
proved the existence of profits attributable to his invention and demonstrated that they are impossible of accurate
or approximate apportionment. If then the burden of
separation is cast on the defendant it is one which justly
should be borne by him, as he wrought the confusion.
7. This conclusion would apparently result in a decree
in favor of the appellant. But such an order, under the
peculiar facts of this case, would operate to deprive the
defendant of the right to a ruling on the exceptions filea
to the report. The Master held that the entire commercial
value of the transformer was due to the invention covered
by Claim 4, and that therefore all the profits belonged to
the Westinghouse Company. The court, on the other
hand, found that the defendant's additions were not, infringements and had contributed to the profits, and that
because of the failure to make a separation the plaintiff
was entitled only to nominal damages. For this reason
it did not specifically pass on defendant's exceptions.
Other questions of law and fact involved in the accounting
were not considered. Neither the court nor the Master
discussed the question. Apportionment and the record
does not afford satisfactory data for entering a final decree.
This no doubt arises from the fact that both parties relied
so entirely upon their theory that the burden was on the
other, that facts were not proved which might otherwise
have been established. The decree is therefore reversed
and the case remanded, with power to hear and determine
motions to amend the pleadings and with directions that
the case be recommitted to a Master for a new hearing on

MURPHY v. CALIFORNIA.
225 U. S.

Syllabus.

all the questions involved in the original reference, and,
on evidence already submitted and such additional testimony as may be offered, for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

MURPHY v. PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF LOS ANGELES COUNTY,
STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 204.

Argued March 11, 1912.-Decided June 7, 1912.

While the Fourteenth Amendment protects the citizen in his right to
engage in any lawful business, it does not prevent legislation intended
to regulate useful occupations, which because of their nature and
location, may prove injurious or offensive to the public.
The Fourteenth Amendment does not prevent a municipality from
prohibiting any business which is inherently vicious and harmful.
The Fourteenth Amendment does not prevent a State from regulating
or prohibiting a non-useful occupation which may become harmful
to the public, and the regulation or prohibition need not be postponed
until the evil is flagrant.
An ordinance prohibiting the keeping of billiard halls is riot unconstitutional under the Fourteenth Amendment, either as depriving the
owner of the hall of his property without due process of law or as
denying him the equal protection of the laws.
Where, in the exercise of the police power, the municipal authorities
by ordinance determine that a certain class of resorts should be
prohibited as harmful to the public, the courts cannot except from
the operation of the statute one of the class affected on the ground
that his particular place does not produce the evil aimed at by the
ordinance.
One cannot be heard to complain of his money loss by reason of the
legislating out of existence of a business in which he had invested
and which is not protected by the Federal or state constitution and
which he knew was subject to police regulation or prohibition.

j

