SOUTH'N RY. CO. v. BURLINGTON LUMBER CO. 99
225 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

may not carry the reasoning further or do much more
than express the opinion of the court that the facts give a
priority to the party said to have it, we are of opinion that
the agreement created such a lien at least, or in other
words, that there is no rule of local or general law that
takes from the transaction the effect it was intended to
produce. Hurley v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co.,
213 U. S. 126, 134. When the English firm took the
securities it only exercised a right that had been created
long before the bankruptcy and in good faith. Such we
understand to be the law of NewYork and in the absence
of any controlling statute to the contrary such we understand to be what the law should be. Parshallv. Eggert,
54 N. Y. 18. National Bank of Deposit v. Rogers, 166
N. Y. 380.
Decree affirmed.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. BURLINGTON LUMBER COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.

No. 236.

Argued May 3, 1912.-Decided May 27, 1912.

Decided on authority of Southern Railway Company v. Reid, 222 U. S.
424, and Southern Railway Company v. Reid & Beam, 222 U. S. 444.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr.- John K. Graves, with whom Mr. Alfred P. Thorn
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendant, in error on the argument.
Mr. W. H. Carroll and Mr. Lee S. Overman subsequently
filed a brief for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action to recover penalties under a statute of
North Carolina for refusal to receive goods for shipment.
As the statute is the same that was held bad, so far as it
concerns commerce among the States, in Southern Railway
Co. v. Reid, 222 U. S. 424, and Southern Railway Co v.
Reid & Beam, 222 U. S. 444, a short statement will be
enough. On January 26, 1907, the Burlington Lumber
Company tendered to the Railway Company at Burlington, North Carolina, certain machinery for .shipment to
Saginaw, Michigan, on a through bill of lading. Saginaw
was not on the Railway Company's line, the company
had no rates to Saginaw and the agent had to delay in
order to inquire of his superiors. The result was that the
through bill of lading was not issued until April 3. The
suit, as we have said; is for the penalty and nothing else.,
The Supreme Court of the State decided against the Railway on the same ground that it did in the decisions already
reversed.- In the circumstances it seems unnecessary to
discuss the case more at length.
Judgment reversed.

