SAVAGE v. JONES.
225 U. S.

Syllabus.

by it" that the strike took place and all the other persons
employed on the building stopped work. It was also found
that to complete the contract the defendant necessarily
expended the sum 'of $3,796.76. This was done under an
adjustment by the architect, and upon the findings the
defendant was properly allowed a credit for the amount
thus paid. There remained due to the plaintiff the sum
of $709.52, for which it was entitled to judgment with

interest.
Judgment reversed and the cause remanded to the District
Court with instructions to enter judgment in favor of the
plaintiff for $709.52, with interest from the date of the
commencement of the action.

SAVAGE v. JONES, STATE CHEMIST OF THE
STATE OF INDIANA.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

No. 68.

Argued January 18, 1912.-Decided June 7,1912.

Where appellant, as complainant below, attacked as unconstitutional
a state statute under which the sale of his product was interfered
with by the state officer. enforcing the statute, and a general demurrer for -want of equity is sustained, this court has jurisdiction
of the appeal; nor will the appeal be dismissed because the bill
in one of its allegations asserted that complainant's product was
not one of those specified in the act, if, as in this case, the bill 'also
alleged that the proper state officr had construed the statute as
applicable thereto.
Sales made in one State to be delivered free on board at a point therein,
to be delivered tQ consumers in another State in the o: iginal unbroken packages, freight to be paid by purchaser, constitutes, interstate commerce.

502

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

225 U. S.

Commerce among the States is not a technical legal conception, but
a practical one drawn from the course of business. Protection accorded to interstate commerce by the Federal Constitution extends
to the sale by the receiver of the goods in the original packages.
An attack by state authorities upon purchasers of goods manufactured
in and shipped from another State, inflicts injury upon the manufacturer by reducing the interstate sales, and if this result can only
be prevented by complying with illegal demands, under an unconstitutional state statute, equity will grant relief.
Regulating the sale of food for domestic animals is properly within
the scope of the state police power, and the vendors of such food
are not deprived of their property without due process of law by a
regulation requiring disclosure of ingredients and minimum percentage of fat and proteins, disclosure of the formula'for combinanation not being required; and so held as to the statute of Indiana
of 1907.
Qwere whether a State can require disclosure of formulas for trade
secret for mixture of a harmless article whose value depends upon
the mixture.
While the State cannot, under cover of exerting its police power, directly regulate or burden interstate commerce, a police regulation
whidh has real relation to the proper protection of the people, and is
reasonable in its terms, and does not conflict with any valid act of
Congress,.is not unconstitutional because it may incidentally affect
interstate commerce.
Where a state police statute involving inspection of goods is enforced
by the affixing of stamps, it will not be held unconstitutional as a
revenue measure in disguise if the bill does not allege any facts to
show that the charge for stamps is unreasonable and the total sale
is so much in excess of the cost of inspection as to impute bad faith.
One whose sales are so large as to require stamps far in excess of the
minimum amount to be issued is not prejudiced by the requirement
to purchase such minimum amount of stamps.
No state statute which even affects incidentally interstate commerce
is valid if it is repugnant to the Federal Food and Drugs Act of
June 30, 1906, the object of which is to prevent adulteration and
misbranding and keep adulterated and misbranded articles. out of
interstate commerce.
Where an act of Congress relating to a subject on which the State
may act also, limits its prohibitions, it leaves the subject open to
state regulation as to the prohibitions which are unenumerated.
In determining whether, a Federal act *overrides a state law, the

SAVAGE v. JONES.
225 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

entire scheme must be considered and that which needs must be
implied has no less force than that which is expressed.*
The intent of Congress to supersede the exercise by the States of their
police power will not be inferred unless the act of Congress, fairly interpreted, is in actual conflict with fhe law of the State.
The statute of Indiana regulating the sale, and requiring formula of
ingredients of, concentrated commercial food for stock is a proper
and reasonable exercise of legislative police authority for the protection of the people of the State.. The act is not unconstitutional
as depriving a vendor of such food, who lives in another State and
ships it therefrom to Indiana either as a regulation of, or burden
upon, interstate commerce, as depriving any vendor thereof of
his property.'without due process of law, or as a revenue measure
beyond the power of the State, nor does the requirement for publishing the ingredients conflict in any manner with the Food and
Drugs Act of 1906.
Although the Food and Drugs Act prohibits misbranding it does not
require publication of ingredients, and in that respect the field is
left open for state legislation.
THIS is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court sustaining a demurrer to the bill for want of equity. The
suit was brought by Marion W. Savage, a citizen of
Minnesota, to restrain the defendant, the State Chemist
of Indiana', from taking proceedings to enforce an act of
the General Assembly of that State (Acts -1907, chapter 206) as applied to the sales of the complainant's product, a preparation for domestic animals known as "International Stock Food." The act is set forth in the
margin.'
I

Acts 1]907,'Chapter 206, Page 354, Indiana.

An Act to provide for the inspection and analysis of, and to regulate
the sale of concentrated commercial feeding stuff in the State of Indiana; to'prohibit the sale of fraudulent or adulterated concentrated
commercial feeding stuffs; to define the term concentrated commercial
feeding stuffs; to provide for guarantees of the ingredients of concentrated commercial feeding stuffs; for the affixing of labels and starmps
tothe packages thereof, as evidence of the guarantee and inspection
thereof; to provide for the collectio of an inspection fee from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

225 U. S.

The bill alleges that the complainant has for many years
been engaged in Minnesota in the manufacture of medicmanufacturers of, or dealers in concentrated commercial feeding stuffs;
to fix penalties for the violation of the provisions of this act, and to
authorize the expenditure of the funds derived from the inspection fees.
SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the general "assembly of the Slate of Indiana, That before any concentrated commercial feeding stuff is sold,
offered, or exposed for sale in Indiana, the manufacturer, importer,
dealer, agent or person who causes it to be sold, or offered for sale, by
sample, or otherwise, within this state, shall file with the state chemist
of Indiana at the Indiana agricultural experiment station, Purdue
university, a statement that he desires to offer such concentrated commercial feeding stuff for sale in this state, and also a certificate, the
execution of which shall be sworn to before a notary public, or other
proper official, for registration, stating the name of the manufacturer,
the location of the principal office of the manufacturer, the name, brand
or trade-mark under which the concentrated commercial feeding stuff
will be sold, the ingredients from which the concentrated commercial
feeding stuff is compounded, and the minimum percentage of crude
fat or crude protein allowing one per cent. of nitrogen to equal six
and twenty-five hundredths per cent. of protein, and the maximum
percentage of crude fibre which the manufacturer, or person offering
the concentrated commercial feeding stuff for sale guarantees it to contain; these constituents to be determined by the methods recommended
by the association of official agricultural chemists of the United States.
SEC. 2. Any person, company, corporation or agent that shall sell or
offer, or expose for sale, any concentrated commercial feeding stuff in
this state, shall affix, or cause to be affixed to every package or sample
of such concentrated commercial feeding stuff in a conspicuous place
on the outside thereof, a tag or label which shall be accepted as a guarantee of the manufacturer, importer, dealer or agent and which shall
have plainly printed thereon in the English language, the number of
net pounds of concentrated commercial feeding stuff in the package, the
name, brand, or trade-mark under which the concentrated commercial
feeding stuff is sold, the name of the manufacturer, the location of the
principal office of the manufacturer, and the guaranteed analysis stating the minimum percentage of crude fat and crude protein, determined
as described in section 1.,and the ingredients from which the concentrated commercial feeding stuff is compounded. For each one hundred
pounds, or fraction thereof, the person, company, corporation or agent,
shall also affix the stamp purchased from the stite chemist, showing

SAVAGE v.. JONES.
225 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

inal preparations, one of which is called "International
Stock Food" and is sold in every State in the Union as
that the concentrated commercial feeding stuff has been registered as
required by section one of this act, and that the inspection tax has been
paid. When concentrated commercial feeding stuff is sold in bulk a
tag. as hereinbefore described, and a state chemist stamp shall be
delivered to the consumer with each one hundred pounds,'or fraction
thereof: Provided, That for wheat bran a special stamp covering fifty
pounds shall be issued on request, and one such stamp, attached to the
tag hereinbefore mentioned, shall be delivered to the purchaser with
each fifty pounds or fraction thereof.
SEC.' 3. The state chemist shall register the facts set forth in the
certificate required by section- one of this act in a permanent record,
and shall furnish stamps or labels ;showing the registration of such
certificate to manufacturers or agenti3 desiring to sell the concentrated
commercial feeding stuff so registered at such times and in such numbers as the manufacturers or agents may desire: Provided, That the
state chemist shall not be required to sell stamps or labels in less amount
than to the value of five dollars ($5.00) or multiples of five dollars for
any one concentrated commercial feeding stuff: Provided,further, That
the state chemist shall not be required to register any certificate unless
accompanied by an order and fees for stamps or labels to the value of
five dollars ($5.00) or some multiple of five dollars: Provided, further,
That such stamps or labels shall be printed in such form as the state
chemist may prescribe: Provided, further, That such stamps dr labels
shall be good until used.
SEC, 4. On or before January 31st of each year, each and every
manufacturer, importer, dealer, agent or person, who causes any concentrated commercial feeding stuff to be sold or offered or exposed for
sale .in the State of Indiana shall file with the state chemist of Indiana
a sworn statement, giving the number of net pounds of each brand of
concentrated commercial feeding stuff he has sold or caused to be offered
for sale in the state for the previous year ending with December 31st:
.Provided,That when the manufacturer, jobber or importer of any concentrated commercial feeding stuff shall have filed the statement aforesaid, any person acting as agent for said manufacturer, importer or
jobber, shall not be required to file such statement.
SEC. 5. For the expense incurred in registering, inspecting and analyzing concentrated commercial feeding stuffs, the state chemist shall
receive for stamps or labels furnished, one dollar per hundred: Provided, That for wheat bran a special stamp as required by section 2 of

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

225 U. S.

well as in many foreign countries; that he has invested
large amounts of money in building up a lucrative trade
this act shall be furnished at fifty cents per hundred. The money for
said stamps, or labels, shall be forwarded to the said state chemist, who
shall pay all such fees received by him to the director of the Indiana
agricultural experiment station, Purdue university, by whom they shall
be paid into the treasury of said Indiana agricultural experiment station, the board of control of which shall expend the same, on proper
vouchers to be filed with the auditor of state in meeting all necessary
expenses in carrying out the provisions of this act, including the employment of inspectors, chemists, expenses in procuring samples, printing bulletins giving the results of the work of feeding stuff inspection,
as provided for by this act, and for any other expenses of said Indiana
agricultural experiment station as authorized by law. The director of
said experiment station shall make to the governor, on or before February 15th of each year, a classified report showing the total receipts
and expenditures of all fees received under the provisions of this act.
SEC. 6. Any person, company, corporation or agent that shall offer
for sale, sell or expose for sale any package or' sample or any quantity
of any concentrated commercial feeding stuff which has not been registered with the state chemist as required by section 1 of this act, or
which does not have affixed to it the tag and stamp required by section 2 of this act, or which is found byan analysis made by or under the
direction of the state chemist to contain a smaller percentage of crude
fat or crude protein than the minimum guarantee, or which shall be
labeled with a false or inaccurate guarantee, or who shall adulterate'any
concentrated commercial feeding stuff with foreign mineral matter or
other foreign substance, such as rice hulls, chaff, mill sweepings, peanut
shells, corn bran, corncob meal, oat hulls, oat clippings, or other materials of less or of little or- no feeding value without plainly stating
on the label hereinbefore described, the kind and amount of such mixture, or who shall adulterate with any substance injurious to the health
of domestic animals, or who shall alter the stamp, tag or label of the
state chemist, or shall use the name and title of the state chemist on a
stamp, tag or label not furnished by the state chemist, or shall use the
stamp, tag or label of the state chemist the second time, or shall refuse
or fail to make the sworn statement required by section.4 of this act,
shall be deemed guilty -of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof
shall be fined in the sum of fifty dollars for the first offense, and in the
sum of one hundred dollars for each subsequent offense. In all litigation arising -from the purchase or sale of any concentrated commercial

SAVAGE v. JONES.
225 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

in Indiana among the retail druggists, many hundreds of
whom were "buying, carrying in stock ajd- retailing to
feeding stuff in which the composition of the same may be involved a
certified copy of the official analysis signed by the state chemist shall be
accepted as prima facie evidence of the composition of such concentrated commercial feeding stuff: Provided,That nothing in this act shall
be construed to restrict or prohibit the sale of concentrated commercial
feeding stuff in bulk to each other by importers, manufacturers or manipulators who mix concentrated commercial feeding stuff for sale, or
as preventing the free, unrestricte0 shipment of these articles in bulk
to manufacturers or manipulators who mix concentrated commercial
feeding stuff for sale, or to prevent the state chemist, or the Indiana
agricultural experiment station, or any person or persons deputized
by said state chemist, making experiments with concentrated commercial feeding stuffs for the advancement of the science of agriculture.
Soc. 7. The state chemist or any person by him deputized is hereby
empowered to procure from any lot, parcel or package of any concentrated commercial feeding stuff offered for sale or found in Indiana a
quantity of concentrated commercial feeding stuff not to exceed two
pounds: Provided, That such samplc shall be drawn during reasonable
business hours, or in the presence of the owner of the concentrated
commercial feeding stuff or of some person claiming to represent the
owner.
SEC. 8. Any person who shall prevent or strive to prevent the state
chemist, or any person deputized. by the state chemist, from inspectingand obtaining samples of concentrated commercial feeding stuff, as.
.provided for in this act, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
.upon conviction thereof shall be fined in the sum of fifty dolla:rs for the
first offense, and in the sum of one handredodollars for each subsequent
offense.
SEC. 9. The state chemist is hereby empowered to prescribe and
enforce such rules and regulations relating to 'concentrated commercial
feeding stuff as he may deem necessary to carry into effect the full intent and meaning of this act, and to refuse the registration of any feeding stuff under a name which would be misleading as to the materials
of whch it is made, or when the percentage of.crude fiber is above or
the percentage of crude fat or crude protein below.the standards
adopted for concentrated commercial feeding stuffs. The state chemist
is further empowered to refuse to issue stamps or labels to any manufacturer, importer, dealer, agent or person who shall sell'or offer or
expose for sale any concentrated commercial feeding stuff in this state.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

225 U. S.

the public" the complainant's preparations; that the complainant's gross annual sales in Indiana amount to many
thousands of dollars; that the "International Stock Food"
possesses effective curative properties for various diseases
of domestic animals and is composed of medicinal roots,
herbs, seeds, and barks, combined by a secret formula of
great value; and that the disclosure to his competitors
of the proportion of the ingredients and the manner of
combination would seriously injure his business; that the
commercial designation "International Stock Food" is
not used by the complainant as descriptive of feed of any
kind, and is not so understood by retail druggists and
purchasers, but is well known to the public as a trade name
of a medicine for domestic animals protected under tradeand refuse to submit the sworn statement required by section 4 of this
act.
SEc. 10. It shall be the duty of every prosecuting attorney to whom
the state chemist shall report any violation of this act to cause proceedings to be commenced against the person or persons so violating the act,
and the same prosecuted in the manner required by. law.
SEc. 11. The term "concentrated commercial feeding stuff" as used
in this act, shall include linseed meals, cocoanut meals, gluten feeds,
gluten meals, germ feeds, corn feeds, maize feeds, dairy feeds, starch
feeds, sugar feeds, dried brewers' grains, malt sprouts, dried distillers'
grains, dried beet refuse, hominy feeds, cerealine feeds, rice meals, rice
bran, rice polish, peanut meals, oat feeds, corn and oat feeds, corn bran,
wheat bran, wheat middlings, wheat shorts and other mill by-products
not excluded in this section, ground beef or fish scraps, dried blood,
blood meals, bofie meals, tankage, meat meals, slaughter house waste
products, mixed feeds, clover meals, alfalfa meals and feeds, peavine
meal, cotton seed meal, velvet bean meal, sucrine, mixed feeds, and
mixed meals made from-seeds or grains, and all materials of similar
nature used for food for domestic animals, condimental feds, poultry
feeds, stock feeds, patented proprietary or trade and market stock and
poultry feeds; but it shall not include straw, whole seeds, unmixed meals
made directly from the entire grains of wheat, rye, barley, oats, Indian
corn, buckwheat and broom corn, nor wheat flours or other flours.
SEC. 12. All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act are hereby
repealed.

SAVAGE v. JONES.
225 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

marks in the United States; that on investigations made
by the United States internal revenue department it was
determined that the preparation was not feeding stuff nor
a condimental stock food, but was a proprietary or patent
medicine'within the meaning of the revenue laws of 1863
and 1898; and that subsequent to the enactment by Congress of the Food and Drugs Act of 1906 (June 30, 1906,
34 Stat. 768, c. 3915), -the administrative officers of the
United States Government duly determined that it,
was a medicine and not a; food within the meaning of
that act.
The bill then avers the passage of the act above mentioned by the legislature of Indiana and sets forth the
provisions of §§ 1, 2, 8, 9 and 11. It is alleged that the
defendant, the State Chemist of Indiana, is asserting
that the complainant's manufacture is one of the concentrated commercial feeding stuffs covered by the act, and
that it is the duty of the complainant to comply with its
provisions with reference to its sale in Indiana, "and has
stated and declared to your orator, and now threatens
that unless your orator has attached in a conspicuous place
on the outside of each package of your orator's said medicinal preparation offered for sale within the State of Indiana, a printed statement, clear and truthful, certifying
among other things the name of the manufacturer and
shipper, the place of manufacture, the place of business.
and chemical analysis stating the percentage. of -crude
protein, crude fat and crude fiber contained in said prep:
aration and have all its constituents determined by the
methods adopted by -the session of official agricultural
chemists, and shall also state upon said package the
names of each ingredient of which said preparation is
composed, he will cause the arrest and prosecution of
every person dealing or trading in the medicinal preparation of your orator within the State of Indiana." That
the defendant has sent, or caused to be sent, -broadcast

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Statement of the Case.

225 U. S.

throughout the State of Indiana to dealers, and others who
are customers, directly or indirectly, of complainant many
thousand circular letters warning them against the sale of
said preparation and threatening that prosecution will be
instituted against all persons engaged in the sale thereof,
unless and until the complainant shall have complied with
the provisions of said act.
It is also alleged that the sales made by the complainant
"in the State of Indiana are made at the city of Minneapolis, State of Minnesota, to be delivered free on board of
cars at Minneapolis, Minnesota, and delivered to purchasers and consumers within the State of Indiana in the
original unbroken packages, freight being paid thereon
by the consumers and purchasers." That unless restrained
the defendant will continue to annoy and intimidate the
numerous persons engaged in selling the preparation in
Indiana, by threats of criminal prosecution, and will report to the various prosecuting attorneys of the State the
sales that may come to his notice and instigate prosecutions of the sellers as violators of the statute, thereby obstructing the complainant in the conduct of his business in
the State of Indiana and interfering with his property
rights to his irreparable injury, for which there is no adequate legal remedy. That many hundreds of persons
engaged in selling the preparation have already discontinued their purchases and sales because of the fear of
criminal prosecution induced by the defendant's threats,
and that large numbers of those who are still hanaling it
will be induced by such threats to discontinue its sale.
The bill further avers that the complainant's preparation is not in any sense either concentrated commercial
feeding stuff, or condimental stock feed, or .apatent proprietary stock feed within the proper construction of the
act of Indiana, and is not advertised as pogsessing nutritive
properties or used except as medicine; that the complainant .does not "'claim that said medicinal preparation, con-

SAVAGE v. JONES.
225 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

tains any crude protein or crude fat;" that it does not

contain, nor is it claimed on behalf of the defendant that
it contains, any ingredient that is deleterious or injurious
to animal life or health; that it is prescribed and administered in small doses as medicine and "that the only nutritive substance or ingredients

.

.

.

are employed

as diluents in so small an amcunt as to produce no feeding
effect whatever, but for the sole purpose of rendering
medicinal bitter roots, herbs, barks and seeds more acceptable to the animal stomach;" that directions for use
accompany each package and in every case there is a
statement plainly showing that the preparation is to be
used to. cure disease and not in place of or as a substitute
for any grain or feed. That nevertheless, the defendant,
who in his official capacity is charged by law with the
enforcement of the statute, has construed it to apply to
complainant's product.
That under § 3 of the statute of Indiana the State
Chemist is to register the fact:s set forth in the certificate
required by § 1 as a permanent record and to furnish
stamps or labels, showing such registration, to manufacturers or agents desiring to sell the concentrated commercial feeding stuff so registered in amounts not less
than the i alue of five dollars or multiples of five dollars
for any one such product; that by §5 the State Chemist
is to receive one dollar for each one hundred stamps, and
that the proceeds thus derived are to be paid into the
treasury of the Indiana Agricultural Experiment Station
to be expended in carrying out the provisions of the statute
and for any other expenses of such station as authorized
by law.
That the statute, and particularly §§ 1, 2, 7, 8 and 9, are
repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Consti
tution of the United States in tlhat they require manufacturers of proprietary stock feed and condimental feeds,
arbitrarily, without compensation and without due proc-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

225 U. S.

ess of law, whether such preparation contain any poisonous or deleterious element or ingredient, to disclose the
formul. by which they are compounded, and the ingredients and proportions thereof, which embody valuable
trade secrets; and that if the act is enforced against the
complainant he will be deprived of his property contrary
to the said Amendment.
That the statute also violates § 8 of Art. I of the Constitution of the United States as an unreasonable interference with interstate commerce in which the complainant is engaged.
That further, the statute is invalid under § 19 of Art. IV
of the constitution of the State of Indiana in that the title
does not express the requirement that manufacturers or
dealers shall disclose the formul2 by which their products
are manufactured or the ingredients or proportions.
That for many years the complainant's preparation
has been offered for sale in packages of different sizes,
holding respectively 24 ounces, 3 pounds, 6 pounds and
25 pounds; that under the terms of the statute the complainant would be required to pay the same amount of
tax for a package of 24 ounces that other commodities
*and manufacturers thereof pay for a package of one hundred pounds; and that this discrimination is unreasonable
and unconstitutional.
That the enforcement of the requirement as to the affixing of stamps and payment therefor is a tax upon the comr
plainant's property and business, and is not a license fee
determined by any reasonable requirement, or for the
purpose of carrying out the inspection required, but, on the
contrary, under the guise of a police regulation constitutes
a measure for raising revenue for the general work and
expense of the Indiana Agricultural Experiment Station.
That the act is contrary to § 10 of Art. I of the Constitution of the United States, that no State shall without the
consent of Congress lay any imposts or duties on imports,

SAVAGE u. JONES.
225 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

except what may be absolutely necessary for executing
its inspection law.
The bill prays that the defendant may be enjoined from
taking any action against the complainant, interfering
with his right to vend and convey his preparations in the
State of Indiana, from instituting any proceedings to
punish him for failure to comply with the defendant's demands, from giving out orally or in writing to the various
prosecuting officers of the State, or to any other agents
thereof charged with the enforcement of its law, or to the
public, any threats of prosecution or information upon
which prosecutions are requested, or may be based, and
from otherwise seeking to prevent the conduct of the
complainant's business in the State or to discredit the
reputation of his remedy.
The defendant demurred to the bill upon the ground
that it was wholly without equity, and that the court was
without jurisdiction. Upon lhe former ground the bill
was dismissed.
Mr. M. H. Boutelle for appellant:
Appellant is entitled to equitable relief. Scully v. Bird,
209 U. S. 481.
The constitutional question presented establishes the
right of direct appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court
to this court. Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 58; Penn Ins.
Co.-v. Austin, 168 U. S. 694; Holderv. Aultman, 169 U. S.
88; Loeb v. Columbia Twp., 179 U. S. 472; Spreckels Sugar
Ref. Co. v. McClain, 192 U. S. 397; Mississippi R. R.
Conm. v. Ill. Cent. Jy., 203 U. S. 335.
Every question arising upon the record is open for consideration on the present appeal. Carey v. Hudson Ry.
Co., 150 U. S. 181; Horner v. United States, 143 U. S.576.
The-Indiana statute constitutes an unlawful interference
with and attempted regulation of interstate commerce.
In so far as applicable to the subjects or commodities
VOL. ccxxv-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellant.

225 U. S.

of interstate commerce it is both regulatory and restrictive of that commerce. Its action and effect in this
behalf is direct, as contradistinguished from indirect, in
that by its terms it undertakes to impose as conditions
precedent to the free and unrestricted enjoyment of the
privileges of interstate commerce, the fulfillment of certain requirements. No State can impose conditions of
this character. Vance v. Vandercook, 170 U. S. 438.
The power of the State is limited and measured by the
constitutional inhibition against direct restriction or regulation of commerce amongst the several States. Robbins
v. Shelby District, 120 U. S.489; West v. Kansas Gas Co.,
221 U. S. 229.
It is no answer to say that the attempted exercise of such
powers is referable to considerations appertaining to local
police regulation and that their validity is attested by this
circumstance. As applied to interstate commerce, the
question still remains, whether, in the attempted exercise
of otherwise concededly valid powers, that commerce has
been directly regulated or restricted. Asbelt v. Kansas,
209 U. S.251, 254, 255; Atlantic Coast Line v. Wharton,
207 U. S.328, 334; Walling v. Michigan,, 116 U. S. 446;
Adams Express Co. v. Kentucky, 214 U. S. 218;.Leisy v.
Hardin, 135 U. S. 100; Crossman v. Lurman, 192 U. S.
189; Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania,171 U. S.1.
While the act does not contain an express prohibition
against importation and sale, prohibition is implied and
its equivalent effected, by making compliance a condition
to the right of importation and sale and visiting failure of
compliance with criminal responsibility. If, under the
guise of restricting the importation and sale of adulterated
commodities, legislation may be adopted. restricting and
limiting the right of importation and sale of all commodities and conditioning the exercise of that right upon such
formalities as each State may see fit to impose, the results
would be to bring within the police power any article of

SAVAGE v. JONES.
225 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

consumption that a State might wish to exclude. In re
Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545; Bowman v. Chicago Ry., 125 U. S.
465; Collins v. New Hampshire, 171 U. S. 30.
The law in question is not an inspection act. The inspection features are evasions and the law itself primarily
a revenue measure. The general powers of the States,
with respect to the adoption of inspection laws, is referableto Art. I, § 10 of the Constitution. As originally interpreted, the power thus indicated was confined to foreign, as contradistinguished from interstate, commerce.
Turner v. Maryland, 107 U. S. 38" Woodruff v. Parham,8
Wall. 123, and cases cited.
Inspection laws act upon the subject before it becomes
an article of foreign commerce or commerce among the
States and prepare it for that commerce. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; Bowman v. Chicago Ry., supra.
As to the right of the States to adopt inspection laws
with respect, to personal property imported from abroad
or from another State, see Voight v. Wright, 141 U. S. 62;
Patapsco Guano Co. v. North Carolina, 171 U. S. 345;
Pabst Brew. Co. v. Crenshaw, 198 U. S. 17.
inspection which is virtually delegated to the foreign
manufacturer who is required to file a verified analysis of
his product, is not inspection at all. Scott v. Donald, 165
U. S. 58, 93, 99; Vance v. Vandercook, supra; and see dissenting opinion in Pabst Brew. Co. v. Crenshaw, supra.
In the ascertainment of the natural effect and intendment of the act this court is neither concluded by its selfstyled objects nor its local interpretation. Mugler v.
Kansas, 123 U. S. 623; Railroad v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465;
Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S. 137; Asbell v. Kansas, 209 U. S.
251.
The imposition of the tax must be rested upon the assumption that the act is a valid inspection act and the
charge imposed with the bona fide purpose of defraying the
cost of such inspection. Otherwise any such imposition

OCTOBER ,TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellee.

225 U. S.

falls under the inhibition against taxation of interstate
commerce. Robbins v. Shelby District, supra; Postal Tel.
Co. v. Taylor, 192 U. S. 64; Postal Tel. Co. v. New Hope,
192 U. S. 55; Atl. & Pac. Tel. Co. v. Philadelphia,190 U. S.
160; McLain v. Denver Ry., 203.U. S. 38.
The act in question as applied to interstate commerce
is superseded and annulled by the act of Congress of
June 30, 1906, known as the Pure Food and Drug Act.
Where jurisdiction with respect to a subject-matter is
vested in Congress by the Constitution, the laws of Congress, enacted in the exercise of the power thus delegated,
.'constitute the supreme law of the land, and, of necessity,
supersede. and annul local legislation in the same field.
Chicago Ry. v. United States, 219 U. S. 486; Asbell v.
Kansas, 209 U. S. 251, 255.
.The exclusive power. as respects the regulation of interstate commerce is vested in Congress and the delegation of
this authority to the Federal Government excludes its
exercise by the States. This result obtains even in the
absence of direct or affirmative legislation by Congress.
Bowman v. Chicago Ry., supra, and cases cited; Sturgis v.
Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 122; Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S.
137.
Legislation of the character of that presented by the
Indiana law, contravening as it does the provisions of the
Federal enactment, must be held null and void.
Mr. Edwin Corr, with whom Mr. Thomas M. Honan,
Attorney General of the State of Indiana, was on the
brief, for.-appellee:
Appellant shows by his bill that he cannot be injured,
except incidentally, by the operation of this law. It must
appear that the law operates upon him or his property directly and not incidentally. Southern Ry. v. King, 217
U. S. 534; Hatch v. Reardon, 204 U. S. 160; Hooker Y.
Burr, 194 U. S. 419

SAVAGE v. JONES.
225 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

The class to whom protection is guaranteed by that
provision of the Constitution giving Congress the right
to regulate commerce among the several States, is necessarily the class who engage in interstate commerce. Unless a person belongs to that class he would have no interest in a law regulating such commerce and would have
no right to attack a state law undertaking to regulate interstate commerce on the ground of its unconstitutionality.
Appellant has not engaged in and does not engage in interstate commerce.
In determining the validity of this law, it should be
considered in its entire scope, and not in detached paragraphs. It should be considered as a whole. Thus considered it will be seen to be a valid exercise of the police
power, which is reserved to the States. The act is simply
an inspection law designed to protect the public against
the sale of adulterated concentrated commercial feeding'
stuff. It does not directly undertake to regulate interstate commerce. It does not undertake the regulation of
importation of commodities into the State. It is only
where the police power of a state law undertakes directly
to regulate interstate commerce that it is invalid. McLean v. Denver & R. G. R. Co., 203 U. S. 50.
The grant to Congress of authority to regulate foreign
and interstate commerce did not involve a surrender by
the States of their police powers. Plumley v. Massachusetts, 155 U. S. 471; In re Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545, 546.
In exercising its right to protect persons and property
within its borders, a State has a, right to require that any
article of commerce, whether harmful or not, be sold for
just what it is, and may require it to be labeled showing of
what it is composed. In its regulations to prevent fraud
and deceit and adulteration in the sale of articles, it may
require an inspection not only of adulterated articles but
of those which may not be adulterated. Inspection;laws
are not founded on the theory that the things on which.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911..
Argument for-Appelee.

225 U. S.

they act are dangerous or noxious inthemselves. Bowman
v. Chicago Ry. Co., 125 U. S. 488; Heath & MUlligan v.
Worst, 207 U. S. 338; Stilz v. Thompson, 44 Minnesota,
271; PatapscoGuano Co. v. North Carolina, 171 U. S. 345.
The Indiana law does not require the manufacturer or
vendor of concentrated commercial feeding stuff to disclose any of his secret formulas.. It only requires him to
state the ingredients that enter into its composition. See
Arbuckle v. Blackburn, 113 Fed. Rep. 616-627, aff'd 191
U. S. 405.
Unless the inspection fee is so unreasonably large as
to
show on its face the lack of good faith in the enactment of
the law, the question of the amount of such inspection fee
is a legislative and not a judicial question. McLean v.
Denver & R. G. R. Co., 203 U. S. 55; Patapsco Guano Co.
v. North Carolina, 171 U. S. 355; Neilson v. ,larza, 2
Woods, 287.
The Indiana law is supplemental or complemental to
the Federal Pure Food and Drug Act and does not in any
way conflict therewith. Crossman v. Lurman, 192 U. S.
190.
Appellant is not entitled to equitable relief upon the al.legations of his bill. Francis v. Flinn, 118 U. S. 388; Arbuckle v. Blackburn, supra.
The contention that the standard by which the constituents of commercial feeding stuffs is to be determined
is indefinite and.might vary, even if conceded, would not
affect the validity of this law, for it only goes to the defect
or incompleteness of the legislation, not to its legality.
Heath & Milligan v. Worst, 207 U. S. 358. Inaccuracies
in a law*may be removed in the administration. of the
same or by legislative modification.
Appellant does not come into court with clean hands.
He gives his product a false name. He calls that a food
which he says is a medicine. His product is misbranded
and he is not entitled to the aid of a court of equity.

SAVAGE v. JONES.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE HUGHES, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The principal contention in support of this appeal is
that the statute of Indiana (Acts 1907, chapter 206), the
provisions of which have been set forth, is an unce .stitutional interference with the complainant's right to-engage
in interstate commerce.
A preliminary question arises with respect to the jurisdiction of this court, by reason of the allegation of the bill
that the complainant's product is not a "concentrated
commercial feeding stuff" within the true meaning of the
act, and that so interpreted the statute would not apply.
But it was also alleged that the State Chemist, who was
authorized to enforce the statute, had construed it to be
applicable to the commodity, which is commercially
known as "International Stock Food;" and thus charged
by the officer with the duty of obedience, the complainant
in his bill challenged the constitutionality of the legislation. The grounds for the attack were not found in the
conclusions reached by the officer, as to the nature of the
article, in administering an act otherwise conceded to be
valid (Arbuckle v. Blackburn, 191 U. S.405, 414), but in
the provisions of the statute itself as applied to the articles
within its purview while in the course Of interstate commerce. A general demurrer, for want of equity, was sustained, and in view of the substantial character,of the contention the case must be regarded as one in which the law
of a State is claimed to be in contravention of the Constitution of the United States. Act of March 3, 1891, 26
Stat. 826, c. 517, § 5; Penn Mutual Life Insurance Co. v.
Austin, 168 U. S. 685, 694; Loeb v. Columbia Township
Trustees, 179 U. S.472, 478; Lampasas v. Bell, 180 U. S.
276, 282.
It is said that the complainant is not entitled to invoke
the constitutional protection, in that he fails to show in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

jury. Southern Railway Co. v. King, 217 U. S. 524, 534.
The argument rests upon the averment in the bill that his
sales were made at Minneapolis, the goods "to be delivered
free on board of cars" at that point, "and delivered to
purchasers and consumers within the State of Indiana in
the original unbroken packages, freight being paid thereon
by the consumers and purchasers." In answer, it must
again be said that "commerce among the States is not a
technical legal conception, but a practical one, drawn
from the course of business." Swift & Co. v. United
States, 196 U. S. 375, 398; Rearick v. Pennsylvania, 203
U. S.507, 512. It clearly appears from the bill that the
complainant was engaged in dealing with purchasers in
another State. His product manufactured in Minnesota
was, in pursuance of his contracts of sale, to be delivered
to carriers for transportation to the purchasers in Indiana.
This was interstate commerce, in the freedom of which
from any unconstitutional burden the complainant had a
direct interest. The protection accorded to this commerce by the Federal Constitution extended to the sale
by the receiver of the goods in the original packages.
-Leisy v. Hardin,135 U. S.100; In re Rahrer, 140 U. S.545,
559, 560; Plumley v. Massachusetts, 155 U. S. 461, 473;
Vance v. Vandercook Co. (No. 1), 170 U. S.438, 444, 445;
Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania,. 171 U. S. 1, 22-25; Heyman v. Southern Railway Co., 203 U. S.270, 276. An attack upon this right of the importing purchasers to sell in
the original packages bought from the complainant, not
only would be to their prejudice, but inevitably would
inffict injury upon the complainant by reducing his interstate sales, a result to be avoided only through his
compliance with the act by filing the statement and affixing to his goods the labels it required. According to the
bill, the State Chemist had threatened the complainant
that in default of such compliance he would cause the
arrest and prosecution of every person dealing in the
.

SAVAGE v. JONES.'
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

article within the State and had distributed broadcast
throughout the State warning circulars. If the statute of
Indiana, as applied to sales by importing purchasers in
the original packages, constitutes an unwarrantable interference with interstate commerce in the complainant's
product, he had standing to complain, and was entitled
to relief against enforcement by the defendant of the illegal
demands. Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 107, 112; Ex parte
Young, 209 U. S. 123, 159, 160; Ludwig v. Western Union
Telegraph Co., 216 U. S. 146; Hopkins v. Clemson College,
221 U. S. 636, 643-645; PhiladelphiaCo. v. Stimson, 223
U. S. 605, 620, 621.
We are thus brought to the examination of the statute.
The question of its constitutional validity may be considered in two aspects, (1) independently of the operation
and effect of the act of Congress of June 30, 1906, c. 3915
(34 Stat. 768), known as "The Food and Drugs Act,"
and (2) in the light of this Federal enactment.
First. The statute relates to the sale of various sorts of
food, for domestic animals, embraced in the term "concentrated commercial feeding stuff" as defined in the act.
It requires the filing of a statement and a sworn certificate,
the affixing of a label bearing certain information, and a
stamp.
By § 1 it is provided, in substance, that before any such
feeding stuff is sold, or offered. for sale, in Indiana, "the
manufacturer, importer, dealer, agent or person," selling
or offering it, shall file with the State Chemist a statement
that he desires to sell the feeding stuff, and also a sworn
certificate, for registration, stating (a) the name of the
manufacturer, (b) the location of the principal office of
the manufacturer, (c) the name, brand or trade-mark
under which the article will be sold, fd) the ingredients
from which it is compounded, and (e) the minimum percentage of crude fat and crude protein, allowing one per
cent. of nitrogen to equal six and twenty-five hundredths

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

per cent. of protein, and the maximum percentage of crude
fiber which the manufacturer or person offering the article
for sale guarantees it to contain; these constituents to be
determined by the methods recommended by the associa-,
tion of official, agricultural chemists of the United States.
The State Chemist is to register the facts set forth in the
certificate-in a permanent record (§ 3).
Section 2 provides that there shall be affixed to every
package or sample of the article a tag or label which shall
be accepted as a guarantee of the manufacturer, importer, dealer or agent and shall have plainly printed
thereon (a) the number of net pounds of feeding stuff in
the package, (b) the name, brand or trade-mark under
which it is sold, (c) the name of the manufacturer, (d) the
location of the principal office of the manufacturer, and
(e) the guaranteed analysis stating the minimum percentage of crude fat and crude protein determined as described
in § 1, and the ingredients from which the article is compounded.
A stamp purchased from the State Chemist, showing
that the article has been registered and that the inspection
tax has been paid, is to be affixed for each one hundred
pounds or fraction thereof, special provision being made
for the delivery of an equivalent number of stamps on sale
in bulk. By an amendment of 1909, stamps are to be issued by the State Chemist to cover twenty-five, fifty and
one hundred pounds (Acts 1909, chapter 46, p. 106). He
is not required to sell stamps in less amount than to the
value of five dollars, or multiples thereof, for any one feeding stuff, or to register any certificate unless accompanied
by an order and fees for stamps to the amount of five dollars, or some multiple of that sum (§ 3). Sworn statements
are to be filed annually of the number of net pounds of
each brand of feeding stuff sold or offered for sale in the
State (§ 4).
The price of the stamps under the original act was one

SAVAGE v. JONES.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

dollar per hundred; but by the amendment of 1909 (supra)
the charge was made eighty cents per hundred, for stamps
to cover one hundred pounds, and forty cents and twenty
cents respectively for stamps to cover fifty and twenty-five '
pounds. The fees received are to be paid into the treasury
of the Indiana Agricultural Experiment Station and expended "in meeting all necessary expenses in carrying out
the provisions of this act, including the employment of inspectors, chemists, expenses in procuring samples, printing bulletins giving the results of the work of feeding stuff
inspection, as provided for by this act, and for any other
expenses of said Indiana agricultural experiment station,
as authorized by law." A classified report of the receipts
and expenditures is to be made to the Governor of the
State annually (§ 5).
Any one selling, or offering for sale, any feeding stuff
which has not been registered, and labeled and stamped
as required by the act, or which is found b an analysis
made by the State Chemist or under his direction to contain "a smaller percentage of crude fat or crude protein
than the minimum guarantee," or is "labelled with a false
or inaccurate guarantee," and any one who adulterates any
feeding stuff "with foreign mineral matter or other foreign
substance, such as rice hulls, chaff, mill sweepings," etc.,
"or other materials of less or of little or no feeding value
without plainly stating on the label hereinbefore described, the kind and amount of such mixture," or who
adulterates with any substance injurious to the health of
domestic animals, or alters the State Chemist's stamp, or
uses it a second time, or fails to make the sworn statement
as to annual salbs as required, is guilty of a misdemeanor
and is subject to fine (§ 6).
The State Chemist and his deputies are empowered to
procure from any lot or package of the described feeding
stuffs offered for sale or found in Indiana a quantity not
exceeding two pounds, to be drawn during reasonable

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

business hours, or in the presence of the owner or his
representatives (§ 7), and it is made a misdemeanor to
interfere with such inspection and sampling (§ 8). He
is also authorized to -prescribe and enforce regulations as
he may deem necessary to carry the act into effect; and
he may refuse "the registration of any feeding stuff under
a name which would be misleading as to the materials of
which it is made, or when the percentage of crude fiber
is above or the percentage of crude fat or crude protein
below the standards adopted for concentrated commercial
feeding stuffs."
The evident purpose of the statute is to prevent fraud
and imposition in the sale of food for domestic animals, a
matter of great importance to the people-of the State. Its
requirements were directed to that end, and they were not
unreasonable. It was not aimed at interstate commerce,
but without discrimination sought to promote fair dealing
in the described articles of food. The practice of selling
feeding stuffs under general descriptions gave opportunity
for abuses which the legislature of Indiana determined to
correct, and to safeguard against deception it required a
disclosure of the ingredients contained in the composition.
The bill complains of the injury to manufacturers if,
they
are forced to reveal their secret formulas and processes.
We need not here express an opinion upon this question,
in the breadth suggested, as the statute does not compel
a disclosure of formulas or manner of combination. It
does demand a statement of the ingredients, and also of
the minimum percentage of crude fat and crude protein
and of the maximum percentage of crude fiber, a requirement of obvious propriety in connection with substances
purveyed as feeding stuffs.
The State cannot, under cover of exerting its police
powers, undertake what amounts essentially to a regulation of interstate commerce, or impose a direct burden
upon that commerce. Railroad Co. v. Husen, 95 U. S.

SAVAGE v. JONES.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

465, 475; Walling v. Michigan, 116 U. S. 446; Bowman v.
Chicago &c. Ry. Co., 125 U. S. 465; Leisy v. Hardin, 135
U. S. 100; Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313; Brimmer v.
Rebman, 138 U. S. 78; Scott v. Donald; 165 U. S. 58;
Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1, 13; Houston &
Texas Central R. R. Co. v. Mayes, 201 U. S. 321; Atlantic
Coast Line v. Wharton, 207 U. S. 328; A darns Express,Co.
v. Kentucky, 214 U. S. 218. But when the local police
regulation has real relation to the suitable protection of
the people of the State, and is reasonable in its requirements, it is not invalid because it may incidentally affect
interstate commerce, provided it does not conflict with
legislation enacted by Congress pursuant to its constitutional authority. Plumley v. Massachusetts, 155 U. S.
461; Hennington v. Georgia, 163 U. S. 299, 317; N. Y.,
N. H. & H. Ry. Co. v. New York, 165 U. S. 628; Chicago,
M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Solan, 169 U. S. 133; Missouri,
Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. Haber, 169 U. S. 613; Patapsco
Guano Co. v. North Carolina, 171 U. S. 345; Reid -v.
Colorado, 187 U. S. 137; Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Hughes,
191 U. S. 477; Crossman v. Lurman, 192 U. S. 189; McLean
v. Denver &,Rio Grande R. R. Co., 203 U. S. 38, 50; Asbell
v. Kansas, 209 U. S. 251, 254-256; Chicago, R. I. & P.
Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 219 U. S. 453.
In Plumley v. Massachusetts, a law of that Commonwealth was sustained which had been passed "to prevent
deception in the manufacture and sale of imitation butter." The article, for the sale of which the plaintiff in
error was convicted in the state court, had been received
by him from the manufacturers in Illinois, as their agent,
and had been sold in Massachusetts in the original package.. The court said (supra,pp. 468, 472), referring to the
purpose and effect of the statute: "He is only forbidden to
practise, in such matters, a fraud upon the general public.
The statute seeks to suppress false pretences and to promote fair dealing in the sale: of an article of food. It

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

comPels the sale of oleomargarine for what it really is, by
preventing its sale for what it is not. Can it be that the
Constitution of the United States secures to any one the
privilege of manufacturing and selling an article of food
in such manner as to induce the mass of people to believe
that they are buying something which, in fact, is wholly
different from that which is offered for sale? Does the
freedom of commerce among the States demand a recognition of the right to practice a deception upon the public
in the sale of any articles, even those that may have become the subject of trade in different parts of the country? . .
Such legislation may, indeed, indirectly or
incidentally affect trade in such products transported
from one State to another'State. But that circumstance
does not show that laws of the character alluded to are
inconsistent with the power of Congress to regulate commerce among the States."
In Patapsco Guano Co. v. North Carolina, supra, the
court had before it a statute of North Carolina relating to
fertilizing materials. It provided: "Every bag, barrel or
other package of such fertilizers or fertilizing materials
as above designated offered for sale in this State shall have
thereon plainly printed a label or stamp, a copy of which
shall be filed with the Commissioner of Agriculture, together with a true and faithful sample of the fertilizer or
fertilizing material which it is proposed to sell,
and the said label or stamp shall truly set forth the name,
location and trade-mark of the manufacturer; also the
chemical composition of the contents of such package,
and the real percentage of any of the following ingredients
asserted to be present, to wit, soluble and precipitated
phosphoric acid, which shall not be less than eight per
cent; soluble potassa, which shall not be less than one per
cent; ammonia, which shall not be less than two per cent,
or its equivalent in nitrogen; together with the date of its
analyzation, and that the requirements of the law have

SAVAGE v. JONES.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

been complied with; and any such fertilizer as shall be
ascertained by analysis not to contain the ingredients and
percentage set forth as above provided shall be liable to
seizure and condemnation." A charge of twenty-five cents
per ton on such materials was laid for the purpose of defraying the expenses connected with the inspection; and
the department of agriculture was authorized to establish
an experiment station and to employ an analyst, whose
duty it was to analyze such fertilizers and products as
might be required by the department and to aid so far as
practicable in suppressing fraud in their sale.
The court upheld the statute, saying (supra, p. 357):
"Whenever inspection laws act on the subject before it
becomes an article of commerce they are confessedly valid,
and also when, although operating on articles brought
from one State into another, they provide for inspection in
the exercise of that power of self-protection commonly
called the police power." After referring to the decision
in -Plumley v. Massachusetts, supra, the court continued
(pp. 358, 361):" Where the subject is of wide importance to
the community, the consequences of fraudulent practices
generally injurious, and the suppression of such frauds
matter of public concern, it is within the protective power
of the State to intervene. Laws providing for the inspection and grading of flour, the inspection and regulation of
weights and measures, the weighing of coal on public
scales, and the like, are all competent exercises of that
power, and it is not perceived why the prevention of deception in the adulteration of fertilizers does not fall within
its scope. . . . The act of January 21, 1891, must
be regarded, then, as an act providing for the inspection:
of fertilizers and fertilizing materials in order to prevent
the practice of imposition on the people of the State, and
the charge of twenty-five cents per ton as intended merely
to defray the cost of such inspection. It being competent
for the State to pass laws of this character, does the re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

quirement of inspection and payment of:its cost bring the
act into collision with the commercial power vested in
Congress? Clearly this cannot be so-as to.foreign commerce, for clause two of section ten of article one expressly
recognizes the validity of state inspection laws, and allows
the collection of the amounts necessary for their execution; and we think the same principle must apply to interstate commerce. In any view, the effect on that commerce is indirect and incidental, and 'the Constitution of
the United States does not secure to any one the privilege
of defrauding the public.'"
It cannot be doubted that, within the principle of these
decisions, and of the others above cited, the State of
Indiana-assuming for the present that there was no
conflict with Federal legislation-was entitled, in the exercise of its police power, to require the disclosure of the
ingredients contained in the feeding stuffs offered for sale
inthe State, and to provide for their inspection and analysis. The provisions for the filing of a certificate, for
registration and for labels, were merely incidental to these
requirements and were appropriate means for accomplishing the legitimate purpose of the act. It is said that the
statute permits the State, through its officials, to set up
arbitrary standards governing conditions of manufacture.
But it does not appear that any arbitrary standard has
been set up, or that there has been any attempt to enforce
one ,against the complainant. (See Western Union TelegraphCo. v. Richmond, 224 U. S. 160, 168.) The complainant has declined to file the statement and to affix the
labels containing the disclosure of ingredients for which the
statute provides, and instead he resorts to this suit.
The contention is made that the statute is a disguised
revenue measure, but on a review of its provisions we find
no warrant for such a characterization of -it. The bill
set9 forth no facts whatever to show that.the charge for
stamps is unrewaonable in its relation to the cost of inspec-

SAVAGE v. JONES.
225 U. S.

Opinion of' the Court.

tion, and certainly it cannot be said that aught appears
"to justify the imputation of bad faith and change the
character of the act." Patapsco Guano Co. v. North
Carolina, supra; McLean v. Denver & Rio Grande R. R.
Co., supra; Red "C" Oil Co. v. North Carolina,222 U. S.
380, 393. With respect to the requirement of an advance
payment for stamps, to the valde of five dollars, to accompany the certificate, we need not say more than that the
complainant is plainly not prejudiced, in view of the alleged extent of his sales.
Second. The question remains whether the statute of
Indiana is in conflict with the act of Congress known as
the Food and Drugs Act of June 30, 1906 (34 Stat. 768,
c. 3915). For the former, so far as it affects interstate commerce even indirectly and incidentally, can have no validity if repugnant to the Federal regulation. Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S.137, 146, 147; Asbell v. Kansas, 209 U. S.
251, 256, 257; Northern Pacific:Ry. Co. v. Washington, 222
U. S.370, 378; Southern Ry. Co. v. Reid, 222 U. S.424,
436.
The object of the Food and Drugs Act is to prevent
adulteration and misbranding, as therein defined. It
prohibits the introduction into any State from any other
State "of any article of food or drugs which is adulterated
or misbranded, within the meaning of this act." The purpose is to keep such articles 'out of the channels of in-,
terstate commerce, or, if they enter such commerce, to
condemn them while being transported or when they have
reached their destinations, provided they remain unloaded, unsold or in original unbroken packages." Hipolite Egg Co. v. United States, 220 U. S.45, 54. To determine the scope of the act with respect to feeding stuffs
we must examine its definitions of the adulteration and
,misbranding of food, the term "foo'd" including "all
articles used for food, drink, confectionery, or condiment
by man or other animals, whether simple, mixed or comVOL. ccxxv-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

pound" (§ 6). These definitions are found in §§ 7 and
8, which are set forth in the margin.'
1 SEc. 7. That for the purposes of this Act an article shall be deemed
to be adulterated:
In the case of food:
First. If any substance has been mixed and packed with it so as to
reduce or lower or injuriously affect its quality or strength.
Second. If any substance has been substituted wholly or in part for
the article.
Third. If any valuable constituent of the article has been wholly or
in part abstracted.
Fourth. If it be mixed, colored, powdered, c6ated, or stained in a
manner whereby damage or inferiority is concealed.
Fifth. If it contain any added poisonous or other added deleterious
ingredient which may render such article injurious to health: Provided,
That when in the preparation of food products for shipment they are
preserved by any external application applied in such manner that the
preservative is necessarily removed mechanically, or by maceration in
water, or otherwise, and directions for the removal of such preservative
shall be printed on the covering or the package, the provisions of this
Act shall be construed as applying only when said products are ready
for consumption.
Sixth. If it consists in whole or in part of a filthy, decomposed, or
putrid animal or vegetable substance, or any portion of an animal unfit
for food, whether manufactured or not, or if it is the product of a
diseased animal, or one that has died otherwise than by slaughter.
SEc. 8. That the term "misbranded," as used herein, shall apply to
all drugs, or articles of food, or articles which enter into the composition
of food, the package or label of which shall bear any statement, design, or device regarding such article, or the ingredients or substances
contained therein which shall be false or misleading in any particular,
and to any food or drug product which is falsely branded as to the
State, Territory, or country in which it is manufactured or produced.
That for the purposes of this Act an article shall also be deemed to
be misbranded: .
In the case of food:
First. If it be an imitation of or offered for sale under the distinctive
name of another article.
Second. If it be labeled or branded so as to deceive or mislead the
purchaser, or purport to be a foreign product when not so, or if the contents of the package as originally put up shall have been removed in

SAVAGE v. JONES.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It will be observed that in its enumeration of the acts,
which constitute a violation, of the statute, Congress
has not included the failure to disclose the ingredients of
the article, save in specific instances where, for example,
morphine, opium, cocaine, or other substances particularly mentioned, axe present. It is provided that the

article "for the purposes of this Act" shall be deemed
to be misbranded if the package or label bear any statewhole or in part and other contents shall have been placed in such package, or if it fail to bear a statement oa the label of the quantity or proportion of any morphine, opium, cocaine, heroin, a!pha or beta eucane,
chloroform, cannabis indica, chloral hydrate, or acetanilide, or any
derivative or preparation of any of such substances contained therein.
Third. If in package form, and the contents are stated in terms of
weight or measure, they are not plainly and correctly stated on the
outside of the package.
Fourth. If the package containing it or its label shall bear any statement, design, or device regarding the ingredients or the substances contained therein, which statement, design, or device shall be false or misleading in any particular: Provided, That an article of food which does
not contain any added poisonous or deleterious ingredients shall not
be deemed to be adulterated or misbranded in the following cases:
First. In the case of mixtures or compounds which may be now or
from time to time hereafter known as articles of food, under their own
distinctive names, and not an imitation of or offered for sale under the
distinctive name of another article, if the name be accompanied on the
same label or brand with a, statement of the place where said article
has been manufactured or produced.
Second. In the ease of articles labeled, branded, or tagged so as to
plainly indicate that they are compounds, imitations, or blends, and
the word "compound," "imitation," or "blend," as the case may be,
is plainly stated on the package in which it is offered for sale: Provided,
That the term blend as used herein shall be construed to mean a mixture of like substances, not excluding harmless coloring or flavoring
ingredients used for the purpose of coloring and flavoring only: And
provided further, That nothing in this Act shall be construed as requiring or compelling proprietors or manufacturers of proprietary'foods
which contain no unwholesome added ingredient to disclose 'heir trade
formulas, except in so far as the provisions of this Act may require to
secure freedom from adulteration or misbranding.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

ment, design or device regarding it or the ingredients or
substances it contains, which shall be false or misleading
(§ 8). But this does not cover the entire ground. It is
one thing to make a false or misleading statement regarding the article or its ingredients, and it may be quite
another to give no information as to what the ingredients
are. As is well known, products may be sold, and in case
of so-called proprietary articles frequently are sold, under
trade names which do not reveal the ingredients of the
composition and the proprietors refrain from revealing
them. Moreover, in defining what shall be adulteration
or misbranding for the purposes of the Federal act, it is
provided that mixtures or compounds known as articles
of food under their own distinctive names, not taking or
imitating the distinctive name of another article, which
do not contain "any added poisonous or deleterious ingredients" shall not be deemed to be adulterated or misbranded if the name be accompanied on the same label or
brand with a statement of the place of manufacture (§ 8).
Congress has thus limited the scope of its prohibitions.
It has not included that -t which the Indiana statute aims.
Can it be said that Congress, nevertheless, has denied
to the State, with respect to the feeding stuffs coming
from another State and sold in the original packages, the
power the State otherwise would have to prevent imposition upon the public by making a reasonable and nondiscriminatory provision for the disclosure of ingredients,
and for inspection and analysis? If there be such denial it
is not to be found in any express declaration to that effect.
Undoubtedly Congress, by virtue of its paramount authority over interstate commerce, might have said that
such goods should be free from the incidental effect of a
state law enacted for these purposes. But it did not so
declare. There is a proviso in the section defining misbranding for the purposes of the act that "nothing in this
-Act shall be construed" as requiring manufacturers of

SAVAGE v. JONES.
225 U..S.

Opinion o:r the Court.

proprietary foods which contain no unwholesome added
ingredient to disclose their trade formulas "except in so
far as the provisions of this Act may require to secure
freedom from adulteration or misbranding" (§.8). We
have already noted the limitations of the provisions referred to. And it is clear that tbis proviso merely relates
to the interpretation of the requirements of the act, and
does not enlarge its purview or establish a rule as to matters which lie outside its prohibitions.
Is, then, a denial to the State of the exercise of its power
for the purposes in question necessarily implied in the
Federal statute? For when t;he question is whether a Federal act overrides a state law, the entire scheme of the
statute must of course be considered and that which needs
must be implied is of no less force than that which is expressed. If the purpose of the act cannot otherwise be
accomplished-if its operation within its chosen field else
must be frustrated and its provisions be refused their
natural effect-the state law must yield to the regulation
of Congress within the sphere of its delegated power.
Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S.
426; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v; Washington, supra; Southern Ry. Co. v. Reid, supra.
But the intent to supersede the exercise by the State of
its police power as to matters not covered by the Federal
legislation is not to be inferred from the! mere fact that
Congress has seen fit to circumscribe its regulation and
to occupy a limited field. In other words, such intent is
not to be implied unless the act of Congress fairly interpreted is in actual conflict with the law of the State. This
principle has had abundant illustration. Chicago &c. Ry.
Co. v. Solan, 169 U. S. 133; Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry.
Co. v. Haber, 169 U. S. 613; Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S.
137; Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477;
Crossman v. Lurman, 192 U. S. 189; Asbell v. Kansas, 209
U. S. 251; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Washington, 222

534

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

U. S. 370, 379; Southern Ry. Co. v. Reid, 222 V. S. 424,
442.
In Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. Haber, supra,
the Supreme Court of Kansas had affirmed a judgment
against the railway company for damages caused by its
having brought into the State certain cattle alleged to
have been affected with Texas fever which was communicated to the cattle of the plaintiff. The recovery was
based upon a statute of Kansas which made actionable
the driving or transporting into the State of cattle which
were liable to communicate the fever. It was contended
that the act 6f Congress of May 29, 1884, c. 60 (23 Stat.
31), known as the Animal Industry Act, together with the
act of March 3, 1891, c. 544 (26 Stat. 1044), appropriating
money to carry out its provisions, and § 5258 of the Revised Statutes, covered substantially the whole subject
of the transportation from one State to another State of
live stock capable of imparting contagious disease, and
therefore that the State of Kansas had no authority to
deal in any form with that subject. The act of 1884 provided for the establishment of a bureau of animal indus,try, for the appointment of a staff to investigate the condition of domestic animals and for report upon the means
to be adopted to guard against the spread of disease. Regulations were to be prepared by the commissioner of
agriculture and certified to the executive authority of
each State and Territory. Special investigation was to
be made for the protection of foreign commerce and the
Secretary of the Treasury was to establish such regulations as might be required concerning exportation. It
was provided that no railroad company within the United
States, nor the owners or masters of any vessel should
receive for transportation, or transport, from one State
to another any live stock affected with any communicable
disease, nor should any one deliver for such transportation,
or drive on foot or transport in private conveyance from

SAVAGE v. JONES.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

one State to another any live stock knowing them to be
so affected. It was made the duty of the commissioner
of agriculture to notify the proper officials or agents of
transportation companies doing business in any infected
locality of the existence of contagion; and the operators
of railroads, or the owners or custodians of liye stock
within such infected district, who should knowingly violate
the provisions of the act were to be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by fine or imprisonment.
The court held that this Federal legislation did not override the statute of the State; that the latter created a
civil liability as to which the Animal Industry Act of Congress had not made provision. The court said (supra,
pp. 623, 624):
"May not these statutory provisions stand. without
obstructing or embarrassing the execution of the act of
Congress? This question must of course be determined
with reference to the settled rule that a statute enacted in
execution of'a reserved power of the State is not to be
-regarded as inconsistent with an act of Congress passed
in the execution of a clear power under the Constitution,
unless the repugnance or conflict is so direct and positive
that the two acts cannot be reconciled or stand together.
Sinnot v. Davenport, 22 How. 227, 243. . . . Whether
a corporation transporting, or the person causing to be
transported from one State to another cattle of the class
specified in the Kansas statute, should be liable in a civil
action for any damages sustained by the owners of domestic cattle by reason of the introduction into their State of.
such diseased cattle, is a subject about which the Animal
Industry Act did not make any provision. That act
does not declare that the regulations established by the
Department of Agriculture should have the effect to exempt from civil liability one who, but for such regulations,
would have been liable either under the general principles
of law or under some state enactment for damages arising,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

out of the introduction into that State of cattle so affected. And, as will be seen from the regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Agriculture, that officer did
not assume to give protection to any one against such
liability."
In Reid v. Colorado, supra, the question arose under a
statute of Colorado which had been passed to prevent the
introduction into the State of diseased animals. The
statute made it a misdemeanor for any one to bring into
the State between April 1 and November 1 any cattle or
horses from a State, Territory or county south of the
36th parallel of north latitude, unless they had been held
at some place north of that parallel at least ninety days
prior to importation, or unless the owner or person in
charge should procure from the State Veterinary Sanitary
Board a certificate, or bill of health, to the effect that the
cattle or horses were free from all infectious or contagious
diseases and had not been exposed thereto at any time
within the preceding ninety days. The expense of any inspection in connection therewith was to be paid by the
owner.
The plaintiff in error had been convicted of bringing
cattle into the State in violation of the statute. There
was no proof in the case that the particular cattle had any
infectious or contagious disease, but it did appear that
they were brought from Texas, south of the 36th parallel,
without being held or inspected as the statute required.
Its provisions were ignored altogether as invalid legislation. When the plaintiff in error refused assent to the
state inspection he showed.to the authorities a certificate
signed by an assistant inspector of the Federal bureau of
animal industry who certified that he had carefully inspected the cattle in Texas and found them free from
communicable disease. It was insisted that the statute
of Colorado was in conflict with the Animal Industry Act
of Congress, but the court sustained the state law for the

SAVAGE v. JONES.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

reason that, although the two statutes related to the same
general subject, they did not cover the same ground and
were not inconsistent with each other.
The court thus emphasized the general principle involved (supra, p. 148): "It should never be held that
Congress intends" to supersede or by its legislation suspend
the exercise of the police powers of the States, even when
it may do so, unless its purpose to effect that result is
clearly manifested. This court has said-and the principle
has been often reaffirmed-that 'in the application of this
principle of supremacy of an act of Congress in a case
where the state law is but the exercise of a reserved power,
the repugnance or conflict should be direct and positive,
so that the two acts could not be reconciled-or consistently
stand together."' And in the course of its review of the
subjects embraced in the Federal legislation the court
said (pp. 149, 150):
"Still another subject covered by the act is the driving
on foot or traniporting from one State or Territory into
another State or Territory, or from any State into the
District of Columbia, or from the District into any State,
of any live stock known to be affected. with any contagious,
infectious or communicable disease. But this provision
does not' cover the entire subject of the transporting, or
shipping of diseased live stock from one State to another.
The owner of such stock, when bringing them into another
State, may not know them to be diseased; but they may,
in fact, be diseased, or the circumstances may be such as
fairly to authorize the State into which they are about to
be brought to take such precautionary measures as will
reasonably guard its own domestic animals against danger from contagious, infectious or communicable diseases.
The act of Congress left the State free to cover that field
by such regulations as it -deemed appropriate, and which
only incidentally affected the Treedom of interstate -commerce. Congress went no farther than to make it an

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

offence against the United States for any one knowingly
to take or send from one State or Territory to another
State or Territory, or into the District of Columbia, or
from the District into any State, live stock affected with
infectious or communicable disease. The Animal Industry Act did not make it an offence against the United
States to send from one State into another live stock which
the shipper did not know were diseased. The offence
charged upon the defendant in the state court was not the
introduction into Colorado of cattle that he knew to be
diseased. He was charged with having brought his cattle
into Colorado from certain counties in Texas, south of
the 36th parallel of north latitude, without said cattle
having been held at some place north of said parallel of
latitude for at least the time required prior to their being
brought into Colorado, and without having procured from
the State Veterinary Sanitary Board a certificate or bill of
health to the effect that his cattle--in fact- were free from
all infectious or contagious diseases, and had not been exposed at any time within ninety days prior thereto to any
such diseases, but had declined to procure such certificate
or have the inspection required by the statute. His knowledge as to the actual condition of the cattle was of no consequence under the state enactment or under the charge
made.
"Our conclusion is that the statute of Colorado as here
involved does not cover the same ground as the act of
Congress and therefore is not inconsistent with that act;
and its constitutionality is not to be questioned unless it be
in violation of the Constitution of the United States, independently of any legislation by Congress."
In Asbell v. Ka msas,
supra, the plaintiff in error had
been convicted under a statute of the State of Kansas
which made it a misdemeanor to transport cattle into the
State from any point south of the south line of the State,
except for immediate slaughter, without having first

SAVAGE v. JONES.
225 U. 9.

Opinion of the Court.

caused them to be inspected and passed as healthy by the
proper state officials or by the bureau of animal industry
of the Interior Department of the United States. The
court held that the statute was a valid exercise of the
power of the State unless it were in conflict with the act
of Congress. It appeared that since the decision in Reid
v. Colorado, supra, Congress had provided that where an
inspector of the bureau of artimal industry had issued a
certificate that he had inspected live stock and found them
free from communicable disease they should be transported into any State or Territory without further inspection or the exaction of fees of any kind, except such as
might be required by the Secretary of Agriculture. But
as the law 'of Kansas recognized the Federal certificate, a
conflict with the act of Congress was avoided, and hence
the conviction under the state law was sustained.
Applying these established principles to the present
case, no ground appears for denying validity to the statute
of Indiana. That State has determined that it is necessary in order to secure proper protection from deception
that purchasers of the described feeding stuffs should be
suitably informed of what they are buying and has made
reasonable provision for disclosure of ingredients by certificate and label, and for inspection and analysis. The
requirements, the enforcement of which the bill seeks to
enjoin, are not in any way in conflict with the provisions
of the Federal act. They may be sustained without impairing in the slightest degre(I its operation and effect.
There is no question here of conflicting standards, or of
opposition of state to Federal authority. It follows that
the complainant's bill in this aspect of the case was without equity.
Other objections urged by the bill to the validity of the
statute, save so far as they may be deemed to involve the
questions that have already been considered, have not
been pressed in argument and need not be discussed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

225 U. S.

Recurring to the contention that the product of the complainant is not within the statute, it is evident that, assuming the validity of the enactment, the complainant
showed no ground for resorting to equity, as the nature of
the composition must be determined according to the
fact in the course of due proceedings for that purpose.
The demurrer was properly sustained.
Affirmed.

STANDARD STOCK FOOD COMPANY v. WRIGHT,
STATE FOOD AND DAIRY COMMISSIONER
OF IOWA.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 222.

Argued April 24, 1912.-Decided June 10, 1912.

Savage v. Jones, ante, p. 501, followed to effect that it is within the
police power of a State to prevent imposition upon the public and
to that end to require the disclosure of ingredients of food for stock.
Where the fair import of the provisions of a state police statute is
that the fees exacted are for necessary expenses of inspecting an
article properly the subject of inspection, and the bill alleges no
facts warranting a conclusion that the charges are unreasonable as
compared with the cost, this court will not condemn the statute
as an unconstitutional revenue measure.
One attacking a state statute as unconstitutional must show that he
is within the class whose constitutional rights are invaded, and
one admittedly doing a large busineSs cannot be heard on the plea
that the act discriminates against those doing a small business.
The Iowa statute of 1907 regulating the sale of concentrated commercial feeding stuff is not unconstitutional as depriving vendors of
sudh stuff of their propertywithout due process of law, or because it
* is a revenue measure in disguise.

