OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

225 U. S.

was no defense under the statute of limitations or estoppel,
the writ of error was dismissed. Carothers v. Mayer, 164
U. S. 325. I will content myself with saying that I do not
see how the decision can be reversed on the ground of
laches.
MR. JUSTICE LIJRTON concurs in this

view and is of

opinion that the writ should be dismissed.

NORFOLK & SUBURBAN TURNPIKE COMPANY
v. COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF VIRGINIA.
No. 962.

Submitted April 8, 1912.-Decided June

10, 1912.

Although a State may not be named as a party in the original proceeding, if it was really begun and prosectited on its behalf and the
State is named in all the papers on appeal and the State's attorney
appears in this court generally, even if inadvertently, a motion to
dismiss on the ground that the State is not a party will not prevail.
Where the highest court of the State refuses a writ of error because,
in its opinion, the judgment below is plainly right, doubt exists as
to whether it is a refusal to take jurisdiction or an exercise of juridiction and affirmance; under the circumstances of this case, however, the Chief Justice of the state court having allowed the writ of
error for review by this court, held that the judgment was on the
merits and the writ of error runs to the highest court. Western
Union Telegraph Co. v. Crovo, 220 U. S. 364, distinguished.
Where the refusal of the highest court of the State to allow a'writ of
error is also a refusal to take jurisdiction the writ of error from this
court runs to the lower court.
Hereafter this court will regard the refusal of the highest court of the
State to allow a writ of error to review the judgment of a lower court
as a refusal to take jurisdiction and not as an affirmance unless the'
contrary plainly appears on the face of the record.

NORFOLK TURNPIKE CO. v. VIRGINIA.
225 U. S.

205

Opinion of the Court.

A State does not take property of a turnpike company by opening the
gates when its road is out of rcpair; nor is the enforcement of a
statute which makes the keeping of a toll road in repair a condition
precedent to the right to collect tolls an unconstitutional taking of
property without due process of law; and in this ease so held as to
the enforcement of such a statute which has been in force in the
State of Virginia since, 1817.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
under ยง 709, Rev. Stat., and the power of a State under
the Fourteenth Amendment to suspend tolls on a turnpike
pending the making of repairs properly ordered by state,
authority, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Samuel W. Williams, Attorney General of the
Commonwealth of Virginia, with whom Mr.: J. D. Hank
was on the brief, for defendant in error, in support, of the
motion.
Mr. Nathaniel T. Qreen, for plaintiff in error, in opposition thereto.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the

4court.
On April 24, 1911, as authorized by the laws of Virginia,
the judge. of the Circuit Court of Princess Anne County,
Virginia, of his own motion, appointed three persons,
styled viewers, to examine and report upon the condition
of three turnpikes, situated in the county and owned by
the plaintiff in error. The viewers reported the turnpikes
to be in bad condition and made recommendations as to
the work necessary to be done to put them in good order.
The Turnpike Company appealed from the report of the
viewers to the Circuit Court. On the hearing of the appeal
various motions were made on behalf of the Turnpike
Company, to the overruling of which exception was taken,
and which will be hereafter referred to, and an order was

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

entered as authorized by a statute suspending the taking
of tolls on the turnpike until they were put in proper repair.
The effect of the order, however, was suspended by the
making of an application to the Supreme Court of Appeals
of Virginia for the allowance of an appeal and a writ of
error to the order of the Circuit Court. The application
however was rejected by an order reading as, follows:
"In the Supreme Court of Appeals, Held at the Library
Building in the City of Richmond on Thursday, the 11th
Day of January, 1912.
"The petition of the Norfolk & Suburban Turnpike
Company, a corporation, for a writ of error and supersedeas to a judgment or order entered by the Circuit Court
of Princess Anne County, on the .12th day of December,
1911, in certain proceedings, pending in said court, whereby
the collection of tolls by the said. petitioner on certain
secti6ns of a turnpike located in said county was suspended, having been maturely considered and the transcript of the record of the judgment or order aforesaid
seen and inspected, the court being of opinion that the
said judgment or order is plainly right, doth reject said
petition."
A writ of error addressed to the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia was then allowed by the President of that
court. It was therein recited that the Supreme Court of
Appeals of Virginia had "refused a writ of error, thereby
affirming said judgment of said Circuit Court of Princess
Anne County, Virginia." The same judicial officer also
approved the bond and signed the citation. The Commonwealth of Virginia, however, was named as the obligee in
the bond, and the citation was directed to that State as
the "defendant in error." The Attorney General of the
State, who states in his brief that he inadvertently signed
as "Commonwealth's attorney of Princess Anne County,"
acknowledged service of the citation 'and entered the appearance of the Commonwealth in this court "without ad-

NORFOLK TURNPIKE CO. v. VIRGINIA.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

mitting that the Commonwealth of Virginia is a proper
party and reserving all rights."
Appearing for the defendant in error, the Attorney
General of Virginia moves to dismiss the writ of error,
"because this court has no jurisdiction," or to affirm the
order and judgment below "because the questions on
which jurisdiction depend are so frivolous as not to need
further argument."
The motion to dismiss is based upon the contention that
the appearance in this court is a qualified one and "that
the appeal was improvidentIy awarded in this case, that
the Commonwealth of Virginia has nowhere in the proceedings been made a party, and is not now a proper party
in this case." But although the Commonwealth of Virginia was not named as a party to the proceedings initiated
by the judge of the Circuit Court, it is not claimed that
these proceedings were not in reality begun and prosecuted
on behalf of the Commonwealth, which in effect must have
been the conclusion of the President of the Supreme Court
of Appeals of Virginia when he approved the bond and
allowed the citation, as shown by the recitals in those
papers to which we have heretofore referred. The grounds
of the motion are therefore with6ut merit. Pearson v.
Yewdall, 95 U. S. 294.
But aside from the propositions on which the motion
to dismiss'rests and which we have disposed of, there is
an additional ground to' which on our own motion we
deem it necessary to refer, that is, the existence of a possible doubt as to our jurisdiction begotten by the form
in which the court expressed the action taken by it concerning the proceedings to review the order or judgment
of the trial court. Thus although the Supreme Court of
Appeals of Virginia denied a writ of error to the Circuit
Court because it was of opinion that the order of the lower
court was "plainly right," it does not affirmatively appear
whether, by this action, the court was merely declining

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Opinion of the Court.

225.U.S.

to take jurisdiction of the case or in effect was asserting
jurisdiction and disposing of the case upon the merits by
giving the sanction of an affirmance of the judgment of the
trial court. This writ of error runs to the Supreme Court
of Appeals and not to the trial court. ID view of the ambiguity it is unquestioned that the writ of error would
have to be dismissed if we applied the ruling in the Western
Union Telegraph Company v. Crovo, 220 U. S. 364, 366.
It will be seen, however, that the court below in acting
upon the application presented to it to review the judgment of the trial court conformed to what was held to be
an exercise of jurisdiction by affirmance in Gregory v. McVeigh, 23 Wall. 294. It is clear, therefore, that we cannot
apply the rule announced in the Crovo Case and the one
previously declared in the Gregory Case, because the two
could not be consistently made here applicable. The
difference between the cases, however, is not one of principle, but solely depends upon the significance to be attributed to the particular form in which the action of
the court below is manifested. In other words, the apparent want of harmony between the rulings bf this court
has undoubtedly arisen from the varying forms in which
state courts have expressed their action in refusing to
entertain an appeal from or to allow a writ of error to a
lower court and the ever-present desire of this court to
so shape its action as to give effect to the decisions of the
courts of last resort of the several States on a subject
peculiarly within their final cognizance. A like want of
harmony resulted from similar conditions involved in
determining what was a final judgment of a state court
susceptible of being reviewed here, and the confusion
which arose ultimately led to the ruling that the face of
the judgment would be the criterion resorted to as the
only available means of obviating the great risk of confusion which would inevitably arise from departing from
the face of the record and deducing the principle of finality

NORFOLK TURNPIKE CO. v. VIRGINIA.
225 U. S.

269

Opinion of the Court.

by a consideration of questions beyond the face of the
alleged judgment or decree which was sought to be reviewed. The wisdom of that rule as applied to a question
like the one before us is, we think, apparent by the statement which we have made concerning the rule in -the
Crovo Caseand the previous decisions. Despite the ambiguity' involved in the form in which the court belowI
expressed its action, we do not think that ambiguity
should be solved against the existence of jurisdictioi,
because, in our opinion, there is little or no room for doubt
that whenthe form of expression Used by the court below
is read in the light of the previous rulings it becomes quite
clear that the court deemed that it was exercising jurisdiction over the cause and virtually affirming the judgment and was expressing its action in such a way as to
clearly indicate that such was its intention. This is. fortified by the fact that the writ of error was allowed by the
presiding judge of the court. While, therefore,, in this,
case, for the reasons stated, we entertain.jurisdiction and
do not of our own motion dismiss the writ, for the purpose
of avoiding the complexity and. doubt which must continue
to recur and for the guidance of suitors in the future we
now state that, from and after the opening of the next
term of this court, where a writ of error is prosecuted to an
alleged judgment or a decree of a court of last resort of a
State declining to allow a writ of error to or an appeal
from a lower state court, unless it plainly appears, on the
face of the .record, by an affirmance in express terms of
the judgment or decree sought to be reyiewed, that the
refusal of the court to allow an appeal or writ of error was
the. exercise by it of jurisdiction to review the case upon
the merits, we shall consider ourselves constrained to
appyf the rule announced in. the Crovo Case, and shall
therefore, by.not departing from the face of the record,
solve against jurisdiction the ambiguity created by the
form in which, the state court has expressed its action.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

Upon the merits, we are of opinion that the alleged Federal questions are so plainly wanting in merit as not to
justify the retention of the cause for oral argument. The
supposed Federal questions are embodied in three motions
made in the Circuit Court. By motion No. 1 the Circuit
Court was asked to dismiss the proceedings because, as
the statute, in the event the report of the viewers was
confirmed, authorized the public until the turnpikes were
put in repair to use the same for the purpose of travel
and passage without payment of toll or other compensation, a taking of the property of the plaintiff in error for
public use without just compensation was authorized, in
violation of the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Motion No. 2 embodied a request that the
court should not enter judgment affirming the report of
the viewers because, for the same reasons specified in the
first motion, the judgment would operate to deprive the
plaintiff in error of its property without due process of law,
in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. By motion
No. 3 it was in effect claimed that the turnpikes in question
were not profitable, that plaintiff went into possession of
the roads in July, 1908, and had operated the same continuously; that no complaint had theretofore been made
as to the condition of the roads; that the statute under
which the proceeding was prosecuted fixed the tolls to be
charged, and that substantially all the revenue derived
from the tolls had been judiciously employed in keeping
the roads in repair, and that they had been kept "in as
good repair as possible with the revenue received therefrom." It was alleged that to enter a judgment suspending
the collection of tolls under such circumstances would
violate the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amend-ment. The refusal of the court to hear evidence to substantiate the claim made in this motion and the overruling
of the motion were duly excepted to. It nowhere appears
in the record that there was even a suggestion that the

NORFOLK TURNPIKE CO. v. VIRGINIA.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

statute in question invaded contract rights as to the tolls
to be charged, nor was it claimed that since the acquisition
by plaintiff in error of his rights therein the legislature of
Virginia in regulating the turnpikes had altered the tolls.
On the contrary in the brief of counsel for the Commonwealth the statement is made that "this statute has been
a law of Virginia, with little change, since February 7,
1817," and there has been no denial of this statement.
The motions below did not, therefore, amount to a claim
against the rates per se, but simply asserted that as the
travel on the turnpikes was not sufficient to cause their
operation to be profitable, that is to say, to produce a sufficient revenue to enable the roads to be kept in good order,
therefore the obligation imposed by the statute and voluntarily assumed ought not to be enforced. The mere
statement of this proposition is sufficient to establish its
entire want of merit. To suspend the taking of tolls
while the roads were out of repair manifestly was not a
taking of property, but was simply a method provided by
statute to enforce the discharge of the public duty respecting the safe and convenient maintenance of a public
highway. In other words, as observed by the Attorney
General for the Commonwealth, the burden of keeping the
turnpikes in repair was made a condition precedent to the
right to collect tolls.
Affirmed.

