ZECKENDQRF v. STEINFELD.
225 U. S.

Syllabus.

indicates that the testator meant the sons to be owners
of his estate, subject to the divesting clause.
We should lean toward art agreement with the state
courts, especially in a matter like this. In the present
instance we see no sufficient reason for refusing to follow
their judgment, even if, for any cause not pointed out to
us, it did not finally adjudicate the question of title as
between these parties in such wise as to be binding upon
every court before which that title subsequently might
be discussed.
Judgment reversed.

ZECKENDORF v, STEINFELD.
STEINFELD v. ZECKENDORF.
APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY
OF ARIZONA.

Nos. 139, 140.

Argued March 15, 1912.-Decided June 7, 1912.

One of the parties interested in and having control of a mining company purchased a neighboring group of mines and agreed that the
company should have the opportunity of taking them on reimbursing him for outlay; if not availed of, he to keep them for his own.
Subsequently the combined groups being sold he claimed the agreement had by reason of certain resolutions been rescinded and that
he was entitled to the proceeds of the purchased group. The case
was twice lefore the Supreme Court of the Territory: on the first
appeal that court held that the agreement had been rescinded. Held
that:
The findings of fact sent up from the territorial court must alone
be the basis of the judgment of this court.
In interpreting the action of stockholders in passing resolutions
regarding the relative rights of the corporation and one of the
stockholders and officers in property of the corporation, the surrounding facts and circumstances may be considered.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
I

Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

The agreement that the company could acquire the purchased
group was carried out and not rescinded.
Whatever effect the decision of the Supreme Court of a Territory
may have, as the law of the case, on the lower court or on the
Supreme Court itself, prior to an appeal to this court, it is not
the law of the case for this court.
Under the circumstances, the appointment of a receiver and his
continuance for final settlement of the affairs of the company
was proper.

THE facts, which involve the construction of contracts
relating to sale of mining properties in Arizona, are stated
in the opinion.

Mr. Frank H. Hereford and Mr. Edwin A. Meserve for
appellant in No. 139 and appellees in No. 140.
Mr. Eugene S. Ives, with whom Mr. Francis J. Heney
was on the brief, for appellees in No. 139 and appellants
in No. 140.
MR.JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

Louis Zeckendorf brought this suit in the District Court
of Pima County, Territory of Arizona, as a stockholder
of the Silver Bell Copper Company, hereinafter called the
Silver Bell Company, for and on its behalf, against Albert
Steinfeld, J. N. Curtis and R. K. Shelton, as individuals
and as officers and directors of the Silver Bell Company,
the Silver Bell Company, and a certain company known
as the Mammoth Copper Company. He sought to recover
$338,710.15 for so much money wrongfully appropriated
by and to the use of the defendant Steinfeld, which rightfully belonged to the Silver Bell Company, and to recover,
as belonging to the company, 300 shares of stock in the
Silver Bell Company. There was also a prayer for an
accounting and the return of the money and shares and

ZECKENDORF v. STEINFELD.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for the appointment of a receiver. Steinfeld answered that
the money, a portion of which was the proceeds of certain
mining properties which had belonged to him and had
been sold in conjunction with properties belonging to
the Silver Bell Company, and shares of stock belonged
to him and for reasons set forth were rightfully in his
possession.
The District Court, upon the first trial, found in favor
of Zeckendorf. This judgment was reversed by the Supreme Court of Arizona and the case sent back for further
findings. (10 Arizona, 221.) The pleadings were amended,
the amended complaint dividing the controversy into two
causes of action, the first embracing the ownership of the
proceeds of sale taken by Steinfeld and the second the
title to the 300 shares of stock and dividends thereon.
Upon the second trial the District Court found against
Zeckendorf on the first cause -of action and against Steinfeld on the second cause of action upon the facts found,
made certain provisions as to attorney fees, and, in view
of the situation of the Silver Bell Company, appointed a
receiver and ordered that the property and the assets of
the company be turned over to him for distribution according to the order and judgment of the court, and that
upon final hearing the Silver Bell Company be dissolved,
its debts paid and assets distributed among the stockholders according to their rights. The court further ordered that Steinfeld should hold in his hands the sum of
$25,750 to secure him against his liability as garnishee in
a case by one Franklin against the Silver Bell Company,
Steinfeld to account to the company for the morn ton the
final determination of the action. An appeal was again
taken to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Arizona,
and that court affirmed the judgment and orders of the
District Court. (12 Arizona, 245.)
Both parties appealed. No. 139 is the appeal of Zecken-.
dorf from that part of the judgment dismissing on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

merits his first causc of action, concerning the moneys paid
to Steinfeld. No. 140 is'the appeal of Steinfeld from the
order and judgment holding that the 300 shares of stock
belong to the company and requiring him to account for
the dividends thereon. The Supreme Court of the Territory made elaborate findings of fact, adopting the findings
of the District Court and making certain findings of its
own. So far as necessary to determine the case as we view
it, the findings may be summarized as follows:
Since 1878 Albert Steinfeld and Louis Zeckendorf have
been partners under the firm name of Louis Zeckendorf &
Company. Zeckendorf lived in the city of New York.
Steinfeld resided in the city of Tucson, Arizona, and was
the active membet of the firm in its mining operations.
William and Julia Zeckendorf were the owners of a certain
mine known as the Old Boot or Mammoth Mine, which
was being operated by one Carl Nielsen, under contract
with Steinfeld as trustee of the owners. Nielsen became
so indebted to the partnership that, in order to secure
such indebtedness, in January, 1899, a company was incorporated under the laws of Arizona known as the Nielsen
Mining & Smelting Company, the name being changed
on January 14, 1901, to the Silver Bell Mining Company,
and all the stock of the company was originally issued to
Carl Nielsen, in consideration of. the transfer to the company of his rights in the Old Boot mine, and a like transfer
of personal property used in working the mine. The
stock was divided as follows: 499 shares' to L. Zeckendorf
& Company, 30 shares to Albert Steinfeld, trustee of
William and Julia Zeckend6rf, 170 shares to J. N. Curtis,
300 shares to Carl Nielsen and one share to R. K. Shelton,
but being in fact the property of L. Zeckendorf & Company. In January, 1901, the 300 shares in Nielsen's name
were transferred on the books of the company to the
name of Albert Steinfeld, trustee. On the sixth of June,
1903, the 499 shares of L. Zeckendorf & Company were

ZECKENDORF v. STEINFELD.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

divided, 250 shares to Louis Zeckendorf and 249 shares to
Albert Steinfeld, Steinfeld taking the one share standing
in the name of Shelton which was in Steinfeld's possession
until December 9, 1903, when it was given to Shelton. At
the meetings of the stockholders Steinfeld voted the stock
in his name as trustee and the stock of L. Zeckendorf &
Company, and Louis Zeckend-orf was never at any stockholders' meeting and did not vote therein by. proxy. until
the stockholders' meeting of December 26, 1903, at which
he was present. Subsequent to January 14, 1901, Albext
Steinfeld, J. N. Curtis and R. K. Shelton were the directoes
of the corporation, all residing in Tucson, Arizona. She!ton was at all times the representative of Steinfeld on the
board of directors of the company, and at all times involved
in this action voted as ordered, directed and reqjuested
by Steinfeld. After June 6, 1903, J. N. Curtis, as director
and other officer of the Silver Bell Company, was under
the dominion and control of Steinfeld and did as he directed.
In the year 1900 Steinfeld purchased, in his own name
and in the name -of the Mammoth Copper Company,
which was owned and controlled by him, certain mining
properties in the neighborhood of the Old Boot Mine,
known as the English Group of Mines, and in September,
1900, proceeded to Europe, and there concluded the purchase of the English title to that group.
The findings of fact sent up to us, and which must alone
be the basis of our judgment (Eagle Mining Co. v. Hamilton, 218 U. S. 513, 515), show that Steinfeld, in purchasing
the English Group of mines, did not purchase them with
the intent that they should thereby become the property
of the Silver Bell Company, butthat at that time he purposed to give the Silver Bell Company an opportunity to
take the mines upon reimbursing: him for his outlays and
expenditures in that connection, which he expected the
,ilver Bell Company would do, intending, if it did not,
VOL. ccxxv--29

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

to keep them for his own. In our view, the facts found
show that Steinfeld and the company effectually carried
out this purpose, and that the subsequent attempt to rescind the action by which the proceeds of the gale of the
English Group of mines became the property of the
Silver Bell Company and to give the proceeds to Steinfeld
must be held for naught.
The findings show that after the acquisition of the
English Group of mines Steinfeld turned them over to the
possession of the Nielsen Mining and Smelting Company
(the name of which was subsequently changed to the
Silver Bell Copper Company), which assumed the possession and control of them; that they were operated in connection with the other mining property of the company,
known as the Old Boot Mine; that maps were prepared,
under the direction of Steinfeld, showing the mining properties as one entire group of mines, and that the president
of the company made reports of the mines as the-properties
of the Silver Bell Company; that these maps and reports
were sent to Zeckendoff and others, and that efforts were
made by Steinfeld to sell the properties as a whole, including the English Group.
In the early part of 1901, Curtis, who was president of
the Silver Bell Company, holding certain shares in his own
right, contended that the English Group of mines was
held in trust by Steinfeld for the Silver Bell Company.
Both parties consulted one Franklin, an attorney, who
advised that Steinfeld could not hold the properties as
his own until he had given the company an opportunity
to take them upon reimbursing him for his outlays and
expenses and it had declined to do so.
Steinfeld acquiesced in. this position and on July 15,
'1901, made a proposition in writing to the Silver Bell
Company. The substance of this proposal was that he
would hold in trust for the Silver Bell Company all the
mining properties controlled by him, the company to as-,

ZECKENDORF v. STEINFELD.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sume all obligations, counsEl fees, etc., to pay for the
annual assessment work and to reimburse him for his outlays on or before the fifteenth of October, 1901 (and that
he would also turn over the Nielsen stock in controversy in
the second cause of action upon the assumption of certain
obligations). And upon compliance with the terms of
the proposition the mining properties were to, belong to
the Silver Bell Company. Steinfeld stated in this proposal:
"I am of the opinion that all of the mining claims and
mill sites and property acquired, as above set forth, by the
Mammoth Mining Company and by myself, are of great
value to you, and that your company should own the
same, and as an inducement to you to purchase and acquire the same, I am willing to place you in my shoes, that
is to.say, to sell and convey to you all the interest so acquired by me, upon my being repaid the amounts of money
I have expended, with interest, and upon your assuming
and guaranteeing with security satisfactory to me the
performance on your part, of all the matters and things
and payments which under the various contracts I am
liable or responsible for. To this end I herewith submit
to you the following proposition."
The. Silver Bell Company was given until October 15,
1901, to accept the proposition; -and, in the event it failed
to do so and to comply therewith by such date, the option
was to be at an end. This proposition was presented to
the board of directors on July 15; 1901, and it was ordered
that a: meeting of the stockholders should be called to
decide upon it. Another meeting of the directors took
place. October 1, 1901, at which Steinfeld stated that he
would agree, on condition that the company pay for the
assessment work done and to be done in 1900, 1901 and
1902, and pay interest for the interval on the amount
named in his original proposition, to extend the time for
acceptance of his proposal to the fifteenth day of September, 1902. This proposition of extension was accepted by

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

the board, and it was further resolved that a stockholders'
meeting should be called not later than September 15,
1902, and a stockholders' meeting was held later on that
day, October 1, 1901, but Zeckendorf was not present and
no action was taken. And the Silver Bell Company. continued to possess, us6 and work the properties as its own
with the full knowledge and consent of Steinfeld and the
Mammoth Copper Company.
In this situation of affairs Steinfeld negotiated the sale
of all of the properties, and on May 13, 1903, reported to
the board of directors that he had, on behalf of himself, the
Mammoth Copper Company and the Silver Bell Company,
iven an option for the sale of the properties for $515,000,
as. one entire property, and requested. that his action be
confirmed, which was done, Steinfeld himself voting in
favor of such confirmance. At the time the price of
$515,000 was fixed Steinfeld intended to renew and permit
the corporation to accept the terms of his proposition of
July 15, 1901, as extended, and the officers of the Silver
Bell Company expected the corporation to avail itself of
the offer, so that the whole of Lhe purchase money would
be paid to and become the property of .the Silver Bell
Company. On May 20, 1903, all the properties were conveyed to the Imperial Copper Company fdr the purchase
price of $515,000, $115,000 in cash and the balance in
notes payable in four equal quarterly instalments., The
cash and notes were turned over to Steinfeld as the
treasurer of the Silver Bell Company and were to be held
by him under .a certain agreement, dated May 20, 1903,
which permitted Steinfeld to lhold the money and notes
as indemnity for the obligations and liabilities to the Imperial Copper Company whih he had assumed, the latter
company having required Steinfeld to guarantee the titles
to the mines sold for one year. It was mutually agreed
in the' agreement of May 20, 1903, that the purchase
price paid and to be paid upon the sale should belong to

ZECKENDORF v. STEINFELD.

225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the Silver Bell Company. Between. May 20, 1903, and
January 20, 1904, the Imperial Copper Company paid ,to
Steinfeld, as treasurer and trustee of the Silver Bell Coinpany $319,487.5Q, representing the cash-payment and the
pfoceeds f the first two notes, with interest, out of which
money was paid $118,000, including $18,117 to Steinfeld.
In October and November, 1903, Steinfeld sent all the
money, except $50,000 which h9d been attached 4n his
hands at the suit of Franklin, to the Bank of California, at
San Francisco, California, and deposited it there in his
individual name.
On the day the contract of May 20, 1903, was executed,
the board of directors held a, meeting, Steinfeld, Curtis
and Shelton being present, at-which the president reported
the various transactions attending the sale and submitted
certain documents. He further reported that Steinfeld,
who had conducted the negotiations with the Imperial
Copper Company, had again submitted for acceptance
his proposition of July 15, 1901, with the modifications
that the company forthwith pay him in cash the sum ofd
$18,117, being the sum named in the original proposal
with interest, and assume all obligations incurred in past
and present negotiations and transactions with respect
to such mining properties, and the president stated that
it was necessary to adjust with the Mammoth Copper
Company the disposition of the purchase money, and submitted the agreement of May 20, 1903. Five several
resolutions were thereupon unanimously adopted: (1) Ratifying the sale; (2) accepting Steinfeld's proposition and
directing the payment forthwith of the $1.8,117 and providing for certain other payments; (3) authorizing the
payment of certain commissions on the sale; (4) fully
empowering the president and secretary of the company
to indemnify Steinfeld against loss or damage for having
guaranteed the titles to the properties; and (5) specifically
ratifying and approving the agreement of May 20, 1903,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

providing for the disposition of the proceeds of
the sale
and indemnifying Steinfeld. And on the day following,
May 21, 1903, the $18,117 was paid to Steinfeld. Zeckendorf was not at this meeting or any of the meetings except
the stockholders' meeting on December 26, 1903.
In December, 1903, Zeckendorf brought a suit in California to enjoin the bank there from turning over to Steinfeld the moneys and notes so deposited by him, and obtainfed an injunction restraining Steinfeld from receiving
and the bank from delivering to him the money and notes.
Thereafter, on December 26, 1903, a stockholders'
meeting was held in Tucson, Arizona, all the stockholders
and the respective attorneys of Zeckendorf and Steinfeld
being present, and it.was at this meeting, it is contended,
that the action theretofore taken vesting the proceeds of
sale in the Silver Bell Company was rescinded. The Su"preme Court of Arizona, on ihe first appeal of this case
to that court (10 Arizona, 221), found that such rescission
was accomplished, notwithstanding the stockholders may
have intended-to do ,no more than rescind the indemnity
feature of the former agreement and resolutions, and sent
the case back for findings of fact as to the ownership of
the English-Group of mines and also of the 300 shares of
stock, and as to the rights of the parties as to the dis-tribution of the proceeds of the sale. This conclusion as
to the rescission of the agreement of May 20, 1903, it is
said, has become the law of the case and binding in its
subsequent stages. Whatever might be the holding of
the Supreme Court of Arizona as to the effect of this decision upon its own judgment and that of the District Court,
the case reached this court for the first time upon the
present appeal, and certainly the holding of the Supreme
Court of Arizona at any of the stages of the case prior to
this appeal would not be the law of the case for this,court.
Tnited States v. Denver .&,Rio Grande Railroad Co., 191
U.S. 84, 93.

ZECKENDORF v. STEINFELD.
225 U. S.

Opinion of tbe Court.

We cannot agree with the Supreme Court of Arizona
that the effect of this stockholders' meeting was to rescind
so much of the former action as vested the proceeds of
the sale in the Silver Bell Company. Nor can .we agree,
as the court held, that, if the parties did intend to rescind
only the former action as to the custody of the proceeds of
the sale, they made a mistake only as to the legal effect of
the rescinding resolution. On the other hand, we think
it is apparent from a consideration of the proceedings of
that meeting, which the Supreme Court of Arizona has
made a finding of itself, that the objection of Zeckendorf,
the principal stockholder other than Steinfeld, was to so
much of the former action as pertained to the turning over
of the proceeds of the sale to Steinfeld to be held by him
for his indemnity. At the meeting no disposition was
manifested to give Steinfeld the ownership of the proceeds
of the sale of the English mines nor to treat any modification of the former action as a rescission of the entire
matter.
The discussion at that meeting throughout shows that
the object of Zeckendorf was to get the money and the
proceeds of the notes into the hands of a treasurer of the
company who would give security therefor, and to have
the entire proceeds of the sale divided among the stockholders. There was no intimation that the money or notes
then held by the treasurer would be taken from the Silver
Bell Company and one-half thereof turned over to Steinfeld as the vendor of the English Group of mines. As the
counsel of Steinfeld said:
"We are unwilling to admit that we did not have the
right to this money. We still assert that this resolution
and' agreement was honest and valid, and that Mr, Steinfeld, under it, had the right to this money, and had the
right to act as he has done. But since you attack it, we
are willing to agree to pass a resolution in the language of
your prayer in which we will rescind the resolution and

OCTOBER TERM, 1-911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

agreement, and relinquish all right whatever to the personal
custody of that money, and 'turn it over to the company.
"Now, I drew a little resolution, which I would suggest
one of you gentlemen (I am not a member of the board)
should offer." (Italics ours.)
Thereupon the resolution in the following language was
offered:
"Resolved, that the agreement executed on May 20th
by the President and Secretary of the corporation, the
Mammoth Copper Company and Albert Steinfeld, be
and the same is hereby rescinded and that the said agreement and resolution passed on said day be declared null
and void."
After the resolution had been offered and before the
vote was taken, counsel for Steinfeld said further:
"We are acquiescing in your demand..
"We will now organize as a stockholders' meeting.
"Our desire is in good faith to rescind that resolution,
but we will never admit we acted wrongfully in taking the
money; you attacked the resolution, and we are willing,
if you wish, to rescind it." (Italics ours.)
What resolution does this refer to? Certainly'not the
one (1) ratifying and approving the sale to the Imperial
Copper Company; nor the one (2) accepting Steinfeld's
proposition and authorizing payments to Steinfeld and
those from whom he had purchased; nor (3) the payment
of commissions. But manifestly all parties had in mind
so much of the resolutions as referred to the right of Steinfeld to continue to hold the proceeds of the sale, cash and
notes, for his indemnity.
At the stockholders' meeting, the entire 1,000 shares,
representing those belonging to Zeckendorf, Steinfeld,
Shelton and Curtis, were all voted in favor of the resolution.
We will not stop to recite the other parts of the long
finding which includes all the proceedings of this meeting.

ZECKENDORF r. STEINFELD.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

At the end of the findings of fact in this connection the
Supreme Court of Arizona makes this significant statement:
"In the stockholders' meeting held on the 26th day of
December, 1903, hereinabove set out, plaintiff in voting
to rescind said agreement of May 20, 1903, and the resolution hereinabove mentioned, did not understand or know
or believe that anybody claimed or would claim that the
action taken on that day by t[he stockholders of the Silver
Bell Copper Company, would operate to give either Albert Steinfeld or the Mammoth Copper Company any
right or claim to any of said proceeds of said sale, nor did
the directors in good faith understand or believe that the
stockholders intended to instruct them to rescind any portion
of the agreement and resolution other than that relating to
the indemnity agreement hereinbefore mentioned." (Italics
.ours.)
It is argued that this is but a conclusion and not.in any
proper sense a finding of fact. If this be so, we think it
is the proper conclusion from the facts stated. In our view
it cannot be reasonably maintained that, in passing the
resolution, when it is read in the light of the proceedings at
the meeting and the known facts surrounding the parties
at the time, the stockholders intended to rescind any
more of the transaction than related to the indemnity
agreement. On the other hand the fair inference from the
proceedings at this meeting leaves no doubt in our minds
that the stockholders intended to affirm the previous
transactions except so far as they related to Steinfeld's
right to hold the money and notes for his indemnity, and
that Steinfeld acquiesced in such modification as one of
the stockholders.
In interpreting the action of te stockholders in passing
the resolution, the facts and -circumstances surrounding
them may legitimately be looleked to. Canal Company v.
Hill, 15 Wall. 94, 100, 101. In construing written docu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

ments, "this kind of evidence," said Mr. Justice Bradley,
speaking for the court, "is especially pertinent when the
inquiry is as to the subject-matter of the agreement"
(p. 101). To the same effect, Reed v. Insurance Co., 95
U. S. 23, 30, 31.
Notwithstanding the directors did not, in good faith,
understand the rescission to go beyond the indemnity
feature, as above stated, on December 26, 1903, the directors, Steinfeld, Shelton and Curtis, met and undertook
to rescind their former action. It is specifically found that
Zeckendorf had no knowledge of this meeting, although
it was held on the same day as the meeting of the stockholders to which we have referred. On January 16, 1904,
Curtis and Shelton, for the directors, without notice to
the other stockholders, and no one else being present but
Steinfeld and his counsel, at the request of Steinfeld,
adopted the resolution which divided the $515,000, the
proceeds of the sale to the Imperial Copper Company, by
awarding to Steinfeld and his company, the Mammoth
Copper Company, as the owners of one-half of the property
sold, one-half of the cash and notes, less certain payments
which are recited. Under that supposed authority, Curtis,
as treasurer, turned over to Steinfeld $145,743.75 in cash
and one of the notes. In so voting and acting it is specifically found that Curtis and Shelton consulted with no
person whatsoever except Steinfeld and his attorney and
that they were under the complete dominion and control
of Steinfeld, and voted and acted on his orders and not
otherwise. For the reasons stated, we are of the opinion
that the Supreme Court of Arizona erred in affirming so
much of the judgment as dismissed the first cause of action.
This conclusion renders it unnecessary to consider whether
Steinfeld in view of .his relation to the company could
have held the title acquired by him except in trust for the
company.
. As to the second cause of action:

ZECKENDORF v. STEINFELD.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

On the twentieth of January, 1904, Steinfeld received
$33,300 as dividends upon the stock standing in his name
as trustee and which is in controversy in the second cause
of action, a dividend of $111 per share having been declared by the board of directors. As to this phase of the
case, it is unnecessary to recite the facts found by the
Supreme Court of Arizona. They are clear and distinct,
and there can be no doubt that Steinfeld held the 300
shares of stock purchased from Nielsen for the company,
and the court was right in affirming the judgment upon
the second cause of action upon the facts found.
It is contended that it was wrong to appoint a receiver
in the case, but we think that, in view of the situation of
the property and the final winding up of the company,
the appointment of the receiver was proper, and that that
officer should be continued for the final settlement of the
affairs of the company.
It follows that the judgment of the Supreme Court of
the Territory of Arizona should be reversed in so far as it
affirms the judgment of the District Court on the first
cause of action, and affirmed in so far as the Supreme Court
affirms the District Court on the second cause of action;
and the case remanded to the Supreme Court of the State
of Arizona, as successor of the territorial Supreme Court
(36 Stat. ch. 310, pp. 557, 576, 577; Nielsen v. Steinfeld,
May 13, 1912, 224 U. S. 534), for such further proceedings
as may not be inconsistent with the opinion of this court.
Judgment accordingly.

