OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

225 U. S.

LOW WAH SUEY v.. BACKUS, COMMISSIONER OF
IMMIGRATION.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 869.

Argued April 30, 1912.-Decided June 7, 1912.

Congress may pass laws forbidding aliens or classes of aliens from coming within the United States and may provide for their expulsion;
it may also devolve upon the executive department or subordinate
.officers the right and duty of carrying out the law. Wong Wing v.
United States, 163 U. S. 228,
Hearing on proceedings for deporting aliens before executive officers.
may be made conclusive when fairly conducted. One attacking
such proceedings in the courts must show that the officers conducting
them were manifestly unfair and abused the discretion committed
to them. Otherwise the order of 'executive officers within the authority of the statute is final.
When a case is decided upon demurrer the question is whether a case
was made upon those allegations which are well pleaded and not
,upon those that are mere conclusions of law.
A'preliminary examination of an alien without counsel is permitted by
the statute; and if at subsequent stages of the proceedings the alien
has counsel there is no denial of right.
The Alien Immigration Acts of 1907 and 1910 do not give authority
to the Commissioner or Secretary to issue process to compel attendance of witnesses on behalf of the alien held for deportation. The
alien is not denied rights if the witnesses produced on his behalf
are heard.
The Act of 1907 is not unconstitutional as denying one held for deportation of his liberty without due process of law because it does
not give the immigration officers power to compel his witnesses to
appear.
This court cannot pass on an objection that hearsay evidence was
received and not communicated to the alien where the record does
not disclose the nature of the tstimony.
This court is not prepared to declare the rules of the Secretary of
Commerce and Labor in regard to proceedings for deportation of
aliens to be so arbitrary as to deprive the alien of a fair hearing and

LOW WAH SUEY v. BACKUS.
225 U. S.

461,

Syllabus.

beyond the power of the Secretary to make under the authority
given by the statute. The statute expressly provides, for a summary
hearing.
As a general rule in habeas corpus proceedings, a copy of the record of
the proceedings attacked is required, Craemer v. Washington, 16S
U. S. 124, and if petitioner cannot comply with the rule by annexing
a complete copy he should comply with it so far as itis within his
power.
The Alien Immigration Act in terms applies to all aliens.
An alien is one 'born out of the jurisdiction of the United States and
who has not been naturalized under its Constitution and laws.
The effect of the marriage of an alien woman to a male citizen of the
United States is not determined by the common law. That matter
is regulated by statute.
Under § 1994, Rev. Stat., a woman who could be naturalized becomes
by her marriage to a citizen of the United State, a citizen herself.
See Kelly v. Oiwen, 7 Wall. 496.
Qu(ure, whether a woman, incapable under the laws of the United States
of being naturalized, can become a citizen of the United States by
marriage to a citizen thereof.
An alien who has become a citizen of one of the States, can be excluded under the Alien Immigration Act if within a class prohibited
to.enter.
All statutes must be given a reasonable construction, with a view of
effecting the object and purposes thereof.
The object of the provisions of the Alien Immigration Acts of 1907 and
1910, providing for deportation of prostitutes, was to prevent the
introduction and keeping in this country of women of the prohibited
class; and even ifra woman married to a citizen might be permitted
to enter if she does not belong to that class, if she is found violating
the statute by being in a house of prostitution she becomes subject
to the deportation provisions thereof, notwithstanding her marriage
to a citizen.
Where Congress has power to pass aa act and its provisions are plain,
the court must apply it even in a hard case.
If a statute should be amended to prevent its operation in particular
cases that result can only be acconplished by an exercise of legislative authority.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the Alien
Immigration Act of February 20, 1907, and the right thereunder of the Government to deport the alien Chinese wife

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellants.

225 U. S.

of a Chinese citizen found within three years after entering this country in a house of prostitution, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. Corry M. Stadden, with whom Mr. George A. McGowan was on the brief, for appellants:
This court has jurisdiction. In Yeung How v. North,
223 U. S. 705, dismissed per curiam this term, there had
been a trial on the main issues, and petitioner was a
widow. The cases are dissimilar. The statute should
receive a reasonable construction. United States v. Kirby,
7 Wall. 482.
In this case there is a husband and a child of the marriage. Even if the marriage left appellant an alien she
was not an alien within the meaning of the Alien Immigration Acts. Gonzales v. Williams, 192 U. S. 1. Re
Thakla Nicola, 184 Fed. Rep. 322.
As to the status of the Chinese wife of an Americanborn citizen, see Tsoi Sim v. United States, 113 Fed. Rep.
925.
The fact that appellant could not be naturalized does
not prevent her from becoming a citizen by marrying a
citizen. See T. D. Jan.-Dec., 1900, No. 22551, construing
§ 1994, Rev. Stat.
Naturalization is the only right withheld. Marriage and
its legitimate effects are not affected.
Appellant's constitutional rights were invaded by the
proceeding. United States v. Williams, 185 Fed. Rep.
598; Redfern v. Halpert, 186 Fed. Rep. 150.
The petition states why the record is not
annexed
thereto. It was too voluminous in the first place and it
was inaccessible to the petitioner. The time was brief as
the order was to deport forthwith. See Chin Yow v.
United States, 208 U. S. 8.
As to what is abuse of discretion and arbitrary actioin
on the part of the inspector and the Secretary, see United

LOW WAH SUEY v. BACKUS.
225 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

States v. Chin Len, 187 Fed. Rep. 544; Lewis v. Frick, 189
Fed. Rep. 146; Ex parte Lee Kow, 161 Fed. Rep. 592;
Ex parte Korner, 176 Fed. Rep. 478; Woey Ho v. United
States, 109 Fed. Rep. 888.
An abuse of discretion is merely a discretion exercised
to an end or purpose not justified by and clearly against
reason or evidence. Sharon v: Sharon, 75 California, 48;
1 Cyc. 219; 14 Cyc. 383; Rothrock v. Carr, 55 Indiana,
334.
Mr. Assistant Attorney Gerxral Harr, with whom The
Solicitor General was on the brief, for appellee:
It does not affirmatively appear from the petition that
appellant was denied a fair hearing by the immigration
authorities, which is the foundation of the jurisdiction of
the District Court. United States v. Ju Toy; 198 U. S.
253; Chin Yow v. United States, 208 U. S. 8; Tang Tun v.
Edsell, 223 U. S. 673.
Under the principles announced by this court in respect to administrative hearings, an alien has no right to
be represented by counsel through all stages of the proceedings leading to his deportation. In re Can Pon, 168
Fed. Rep. 479, 483.
The regulations of the Secretary of Commerce and
Labor for the enforcement of the Immigration Act give
the alien full opportunity to show cause and to be represented by counsel from a certain point in the proceedings.
It is not alleged that these regulations were not complied
with.
The fact that the alien was an unwilling witness does
not indicate any abuse of authority, nor the fact that her
answers were incorporated into the record.
The immigration officers had no power to compel the
attendance of witnesses.
That certain alleged hearsay evidence was considered
by the immigration officers is immaterial, administrative

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellee.

225 U. S.

proceedings not being, subject to the limitations of a
judicial trial; besides, the nature of such evidence is not
set forth or the truth thereof denied.
The allegation that the hearings before the Secretary
were not in fact hearings upon the merits is a mere conclusion of law, no facts being set forth in support of the
contention.
The petition is defective in that it is not accompanied
by copies of the proceedings before the immigration authorities which are attacked, or the essential parts thereof.
Craemer v. Washington, 168 U, S. 124, 129; Terlinden v.
Ames, 184 U. S. 270, 279; Haw Moy v. North, 183 Fed.
Rep. 89.
The.allegations in this case are fundamentally different
from those-in the Chin Yow Case, 208 U. S. 8, 11. There
is no allegation here of any denial of opportunity to produce testimony or to secure the attendance of witnesses.
Under the laws of the United States, a Chinese woman
does not become a citizen of the United States by virtue
of her marriage to a citizen. Section 1994, Rev. Stat., only
confers citizenship upon a woman married to a citizen of
the United States " who might herself be lawfullV natural*ized." These words here and in the act of February 10,
1855; 10 Stat. 604, from which it was taken, refer to the
class or race who might be lawfully naturalized. Kelly v.
Owen, 7 Wall. 496; Burton v. Burton, 1 Keyes (N. Y) 359;
Leonard v. Grant, 5 Fed. Rep. 11; Kane v. McCarthy, 63
No. Car. 299; United States v. Kellar, 13 Fed. Rep. 82.
A native of China is not a "white person" within the
meaning of the term as used in the naturalization laws,
In re Ah Yup, 5 Sawy. 155, and such statutes have never
been made applicable to persons of the Chinese race.
Fong Yue Ting v. United States, 149 U. S. 698 716.
Marriage toa citizen does not prevent the deportation
of an alien woman for a violation of the immigration laws.
Yeung How v. North, 223 U. S. 705. See, also, Hoo C/hoy

LOW WAH SUEY v. tBACKUS.
225 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

v. North, 183 Fed. Rep. 92). 'n which certiorari was denied
by this court.
It is of no consequence that the American-born husband
of Yeung How had died before she was ordered deported.
If she had become a citizen by virtue of the marriage, that
-citizenship status would have continued after the death
of her husband. Kelly v. Owen, 7 Wall. 496; 15 Op. A. G.
599.
The alien wife of a citizen who becomes an inmate of a
house of prostitution is within both the letter arid the
spirit of the immigration laws. Gonzales v. Williams, 192
U. S. 1, has no application, because in that case the allegiance of natives of Porto Rico had been transferred to
the United States.
The marriage of Li A. Sim to Low Wah Suey did not
change her political status with respect to this country.
Shanks v. Dupont, 3 Pet. * 242, * 246, and cases cited;
White v. White, 2 Met. (Ky.) 185, 191; Sutliff v. Forgey, 1
Cowen, 85; 5 Cowen, 713; Mick v. Mick, 10 Wend. 379;
Connolly v. Smith, 21 Wend. 59.
If Li A. Sim had conducted herself properly, she would
not, although an alien, have come within the operation of
the immigration laws. Assuming that a citizen has the
right to bring in a wife, although she be an alien, this does
not authorize her to engage in immoral practices in violation of the restrictions placed by Congress upon all aliens.
It cannot be contended that the Immigration Act does
not apply to the resident alien wife of a citizen becausl.
domiciled aliens have a quasi--citizenship according to certain authorities on international law (dissenting opinion in
Fong Yuc Ting v. United States, 149 U. S. 735), as this
would exclude-from its operation all domiciled aliens, and
§ 3 of the act is expressly directed at alien women or girls
who becone inmates of houses of prostitution after their
entry into the United States. The only other ground of
exemption is that the statute was not intended to disturb
VOL. ccxxv-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

the family relations; but this contention was overruled in
Zartarian v. Billings, 204 U. S. 170, where the child of a
naturalized citizen afflicted with trachoma-was held not
entitled to admission.
In re Nicola, 184 Fed. Rep. 322, has no application,
because the women referred to therein belonged to a race
that might be lawfully naturalized.
United States v. Mrs. Gue Lim, 176 'U. S. 459, and Tsoi
Sim v. United States, 116 Fed. Rep. 920, are also to be distinguished. The purpose of the Immigration Act in excluding alien prostitutes is to protect the public health and
morals, and an alien woman who engages in such practices
is as much within the purpose of the act when she is the
wife of a citizen as when she is hiot.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

Li A. Sim, a Chinese woman, wife of Low Wah Suey,
was ordered to be deported by the Department of Commerce and Labor, a hearing having been had before an
immigration inspector at San Francisco and appeal taken
to the Secretary of Commerce and Labor under the provisions of the act of Congress approved February 20, 1907
(34 Stat. 898, c. 1134), the warrant for deportation reciting
that she had landed at the port of San Francisco, California, on the fifteenth of April, 1910, and had been found
in the United States in violation of the act of February 20,
1907, as amended by the act approved March 26, 1910
(36 Stat. 263, c. 128), namely, that she was an alien, found
as an inmate of a house of prostitution within three years
subsequent to her entry into the United States.
The statutes of the United States under which the proceedings were had and the warrant issued are principally
§ 3 of the act of March 26, 1910, amending § 3 of the act
of February 20, 1907, and §§ 20 and 21 of the latter act.
Section 3 provides: ". . . Any alien who shall be found

LOW WAH SUEY v. BACKUS.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

an inmate of or connected with the management of a
house of prostitution or practicing prostitution after such
alien shall have entered the United States, or who shall
receive, share, in, or derive benefit from any part of the
earnings of any prostitute; or who is employed by, in,
or in connection with any house of prostitution or music
or dance hall or other place of amusement or resort
habitually frequented by prostitutes, or wherQ prostitutes
gather, or who in any way assists, protects, or promises to
protect from arrest any prostitute, shall be deemed to be
unlawfully within the United States and shall be deported
in the manner provided by sections twenty and twentyone of this Act.

.

.

."

Section 20 provides that any

alien who enters the United States in violation of law., etc.,
shall, upon the warrant of the Secretary of Commerce and
Labor, be deported to the country whence he came within
three years after his entry into the United States. Section 21 provides that the Secretary of Commerce and
Labor, upon being satisfied that an alien is found in the
United States in violation of the act or is subject to deportation under the act or any law of the United States,
shall cause such alien to be taken into custody and returned to the country whence he came within three years
after landing or entry in the United States. The act also
provides for a hearing before an inspector or commissioner
under rules prescribed by the Secretary of Commerce and
Labor. The inspector or commissioner reports his conclusions and the testimony.on which they are based to the
Secretary, who, after examination, may order a release or
deportation, as in his judgment the case may warrant.
Under this statute the Secretary of Commerce and Labor
has provided, certain instructions and rules, some of which
will be hereinafter noticed.
That Congress may pass laws forbidding aliens or classes
of aliens from coming within the United States and may
provide for the expulsion of aliens or classes of aliens from

OCTOBER TERM, 191t.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

its territory, and may devolve upon the executive department or subordinate officials the right and duty of
identifying and arresting such persons, is settled by previous decisions of this court. Wong Wing v. United States,
163 U. S. 228, 237.'
A series of decisions in this court has settled that such
hearings before executive officers may be made conclusive
when fairly conducted. In order .to successfully attack
by judicial proceedings the conclusions and orders made
upon such hearings it must be shown that the proceedings
were manifestly unfair, that the action of the executive
officers was such as to prevent a, fair investigation or that
there was a manifest abuse of the discretion committed
to them by the statute. In other 'cases the order of the
executive officers within the authority of the statute is
final. United States v. Ju Toy, 198 U. S. 253; Chin Yow
v. United States, 208 U. S. 8; Tang Tun v. Edsell, 223 U. S.
673.
In the case of Yeung How v. North, 223 U. S. 705, decided at the present term, this court dismissed the appeal
in a per curiam opinion. An examination of that case
shows that it was in all respects like the case at bar, so
far as the status of Yeung How, the person deported, is
concerned, she being a Chinese woman who had married
a Chinaman of Americaii birth, except that the husband
of Yeung How was dead, so that at the time of the deportation order she was the widow of an American citizen.
An examination of the briefs in that case show that it
was contended in behalf of the. petitioner that the statute
and procedure thereunder, the case being one of the deportation and not of the admission of an alien, deprived
the petitioner of due process of law under the Constitution
of the United States, inasmuch as there was no provision
by which the petitioner could procure or compel the attendance of witnesses, and because the statute made no
provision for the punishifient of a witness giving false

LOW WAH SUEY v. BACKUS.
225 U. S.

Opinion of 'the Court.

testimony against the detained person, and because such
alien, lawfully within this country could not be deported
without a hearing of a judicial character. Notwithstanding these alleged infractions of 'constitutional right, this
court dismissed the appeal.
In the case now under consideration, the proceedings
and order for deportation were attacked by a writ of
habeas corpus filed in the District Court of the United
States foF the Northern District .of California. The case
was decided upon demurrer, and'the question, therefore,
arises whether, upon the allegations well pleaded, a case'
was made for the discharge of the prisoner. The petition
abounds in conclusions of law. We will examine such of
the allegations advanced as a basis for the relief sought
as state facts. The petitioner, Low Wah Suey, who instituted the proceedings in behalf of his wife, Li A. Sim,
alleged that he was a resident of the city and county of
San Francisco,. California, born in the United States of
parents regularly domiciled therein; that consequently he
is a citizen of the United States and of the State of California; that he was married to Li A. Sim on the tenth of
March, 19M0, in Hong Kong, a British province, and that
they have since been and were at the date of the filing of
the petition -husband and wife; that they entered the
United States on the fifteenth of September, 1910; that
the entry was lawful, and that until the commencement
of proceedings for deportation they continuously lived
and cohabited together" as husband and wife; that they
had a son, Low Sang, born to them on February 9,1911,
at their home in the State of California; and that both
Low Wah Suey and Li A. Sim are citizens of the State of
California. The arrest and hearing before the Commissioner of Immigration at the port of San Francisco are
recited, as is the approval of the Secretary of Commerce
and Labor and the warrant for deportation. It is further
alleged that Li A. Sim was refused. the right to be reprea

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court

225 U. S.

sented by counsel during all stages of the preliminary
proceedings, and was examined without the presence of
her counsel and against her will by the immigration officer
at the port of San Francisco, and before she had been advised of her right to counsel and before.she was given an
opportunity of securing bail, and that afterwards an examination was conducted by the immigration officer, acting under the orders of the Commissioner of Immigration,
at which she was questioned by the immigration inspector
against her will and without the presence of counsel, who
was refused permission to be present, and that at certain
stages of the proceedings she was refused the right to
consult with counsel. This objection, in substance, is
that under examination before the inspection officer at
first she had no counsel. Such an examination is within
the authority of the statute, and it is not denied that at
subsequent stages of the proceedings and before the hearing was closed or the orders were made she had the assistance and advice of counsel.
It is next averred that the Secretary of Commerce and
Labor and the Commissioner of Immigration refused to
take the necessary steps to enforce the attendance of
witnesses to testify on behalf of the petitioner, although it
is said that the immigration officers did use their power
'to procure witnesses to testify against her; and that had
such witnesses as she wished been produced, she says,
upon information and belief, that- the testimony in the
record would have been such as to require a different order
by the Secretary of Commerce and Labor, and sufficient to
prevent the issuing of the order of deportation. The statute does not give authority to issue process to compel
the attendance of witnesses. It does not appear from the
record that any witnesses offered on behalf of the petitioner
were not heard or that anything was done to preventthe
production of such witnesses, and the nature and character
of the proposed testimony offered is not set forth. This

LOW WAH SUEY v. BACKUS.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

objection was urged in the Yeung How v. North case, and
the lack of power to compel witnesses by the immigration
officer was alleged as depriving the appellant of due process
of law. This court dismissed the case upon reference to
other cases which indicate its view that no constitutional
right was thereby taken from the petitioner. The former
cases have sustained the right to provide for such hearing,
and nothing was done to prevent the production of such
witnesses as the petitioner might have seen fit to produce.
It is further alleged that the executive officer acted in
bad faith and arbitrarily in receiving a report based on
hearsay information, the name of the informer being withheld from Li A. Sim and no opportunity being given her
to offset or disprove such hearsay evidence. The nature
and character of this testimony is not set forth, and we
have no means of knowing it was not such as might
properly have been. considered in such a hearing.
It is alleged that the rules of the Secretary of Commerce
and Labor are arbitrary and illegal, particularly certain
sections of Rule 35. From these rules, it appears, that,
while provision is made for an examination in the absence
of counsel, it is provided that a hearing shall be had at
which the alien shall have full opportunity to show cause
why he should not be deported, and that, at such stage of
the proceedings as the person before whom the hearing is
held shall deem proper, the alien shall be apprised that he
may thereafter be represented by counsel, who shall be'
permitted to be present at the further conduct of.,the hearing, to inspect and make a copy of the'record of the hearing so far as it has proceeded and to meet any evidence
that theretofore has been or may thereafter be presented
by the Government, and it is further provided that all
the papers, including the minutes and any written argument submitted by counsel, together with the recommendations, upon the merits, of the examining ofiicer and the
officer in charge shall be forwarded to the Department as

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

,the rdcord on which to determine whether or not a warrant for deportation shall issue. Considering the summary
character 6f the hearing -provided by statute and the
rights given to counsel in the rules prescribed, we are not
-prepared to say that the rules are'so arbitrary and go
manifestly intended to deprive the alien of a fair, though
summary, hearing as to be beyond the power of the Secretary of Commerce and Labor under the authority of the
statute.
The petition
be much more satisfactory if the
general rule hadwould
been complied with and the proceedings
had before the immigration officer had been set out. As
a general rule in habeas corpus .proceedings a copy of the
record of the proceedings attacked is required. Craemer
v. Washington, 168 U. S. 124, 128, 129. The reasons given
for failure to comply with this rule, as stated in the petition, 'are that the record is too voluminous to be made
a part thereof, that to incorporate a copy of the entire
proceedings would "burden the petition and cloud the
issue," that the petitioner was not in the possession of
the entire record and was unable to secure it in time to file
it with his petition, and that the Commissioner of Immigration had a copy of the record which he could produce
with the -body of Li A. Sim. It does not appear that a
copy of the essential part of the proceedings was not in the
possession of the petitioner or could not be had, and so
far as it was within his power he should have complied
with the rule.
An examination of the petition, omitting such allegations as are merely conclusions or charges of bad faith, we
think, justified the court belowin sustaining the demurrer,
. provided that, at the time of the arrest and order of deportation, Li. A. Sim was an alien within the meaning of
the statute which provides for the deportation of any alien
found as an inmate of a house of prostitution or practicing
prostitution after entering the United States, when the

LOW WAH SUEY i. BACKUS.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

proceeding shall be instituted within three years from. the
entry of such alien into this country.
The statute in terms applies in general to all aliens. An
alien has been defined to be "'one born out of the jurisdiction of -the United States, and who has not been naturalized under their Constitution and laws." 2 Kent, 50; 1
Bouvier Law Dictionary, 129. Within this general description Li A. Sim would clearly come, unless her status
was changed, as is alleged, by marriage to a Chinaman of
American birth, who is, consequently an American citizen.
It is unnecessary to discuss the effect of such marriage
at common law, as in this country the matter is-regulated
by statute. Section 1994 of the Revised Statutes providesL:
"Any woman who is now or may hereafter be married
to a citizen of the United States, and who might herself
be lawfully. naturalized, shall be deemed a citizen."
This section is said to originate in the act of Congress of
February 10, 1855 (10 Stat. 60.4, c. 71), which in its second
section provided "that any woman, who might lawfully
be naturalized Under the existing laws, married, or who
shall be married to a citizen of the United States, shall be
deemed and taken to be a citizen."- This section was con-strued in Kelly v. Ou'en,'7 Wall. 496, and was held -to -confer the privileges of citizenship upon women married to
citizens of the United States, if they 'were of the class ofpersons for whose naturalization the acts of Congress
provide. So-under the present statute, when a woman
who could be naturalized marries a citizen of the United
States, she becomes by that act a citizen herself.
Li A. Sim was a Chinese person not born in this country,
and could not become a naturalized citizen under the laws
of the United States. Fong Yue Ting v. United' States,
149 U. S.698, 716; Act of May 6,' 1882 (22 Stat. 58, 61,
§ 14, c. 126). Being incapable of naturalization herself, although the wife of a Chinaman of American birth, she
remained an alien and subject to the teris of the act, un-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

less it can be successfully maintained that she was not
within the intent and purpose of the act when it is properly construed. In this behalf the argument of' her counsel'is that Congress did not intend, notwithstanding, the
terms of the act in question, to make it applicable to a
Chinese woman married to an American citizen lawfully
domiciled Within this country.
To sustain this position Gonzales v. Williams, 192 U. S.
1, is cited by counsel. In that case this court held that
Isabella Gonzales, an inhabitant of Porto Rico at the date
of the proclamation of the treaty of 1898, could not be
prevented from landing and detained by an immigration
inspector as an alien immigrant in order that she might
be returned to Porto Rico, it appearing likely that she
might become a public charge. This court held that she
had been made by act of Congress a citizen of Porto Rico;
that she Was within the class absolved from all previous
allegiance to the Spanish Government; that the act excluding alien immigrants was intended to apply to foreigners as respects this. country, to persons owing allegiance to a foreign government and citizens or subjects
thereof; that citizens of Porto Rico whose permanent allegiance was due to the United States and who lived in
the peace of its dominion, the organic law of whose-domicile
was enacted by the United States and enforced through its
officials, could not be considered. alien immigrants within
the meaning of the exclusion act of March 3, 189J (26 Stat.
1084, c. 551). From a reading of that case it is manifest
that this court did not think that Congress intended to
exclude those over whom it had acquired jurisdiction under
the Treaty of Paris and the subsequent legislation of Congress, whose sole allegiance was to this country and who
were not aliens to it in any just sense of the term.
The case of United States v. Mrs. Gue Lim, 176 U. S.
459, is also relied upon. We think that case is readily distinguished from the one at bar. It was there held, that

LOW WAH SUEY v. -BACKUS.
225 U. S

Opinion of the Court.

the wife of a Chinese merchant entitled by treaty to
come into this country and dwell here could not be required to furnish the -certificate required by the statute
from Chinese persons other than laborers, as such con-struction of the statute would lead to absurd results in
requiring a certificate from the wife of a merchant in
regard to whom it would be impossible to give the particulars which the statute required-should be stated in the
certificate; that the real purpose of the statute was not to
prevent the persons named, who under the second article
of the treaty had the right to come into this country, from
entering, but was to prevent Chinese laborers from entering under the guise of being one of the classes permitted to
enter. "To hold that a certificate is required in this case,"
the court said, at p. 468, "is to decide that the woman [the
wife of a Chinese merchant] cannot'come into the country
at all, for it is not possible for her to comply with the act,
because she cannot in any event procure the certificate
even by returning to China. She must come in as the wife
of her domiciled husband or not at all," and it was held
that the act was never intended to exclude the wife and
minor children of a merchant lawfully entitled to enter.
It is argued that, being a citizen of California, the peti,tioner and her husband are to be protected from the operation of the act. Assuming that. they are citizens of
California, there is nothing, in that fact to prevent the
officers of the United States from exercising the authority
'conferred upon them to exclude! or deport aliens or others
who are such within the terms of the :Federal law,
We find nothing in the previous decisions of this court
which exempts Li A. Sim from the operations of the statute
as an alien person. True it is; as contended, that all'
statutes must be given a reasonable construction, with a
view to effecting the object and purposes thereof. It was
the manifest purpose of Congress in passing this" law to
prevent the introduction and keeping in the-United States

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

of women of the prohibited class. The object of the act
was to exclude alien prostitutes, or, if they entered and
were found violating the statute within the period prescribed, to return them to the country whence they came.
A married woman may be as objectionable as a single one
in the respects denounced in the law. There is nothing
in the terms of the act showing the congressional purpose
to exclude from its provisions an alien who had previously
married or who might marry an American citizen. Indeed ', -if this construction were adopted, the marriage of
such alien to a countryman of American citizenship who
might be ignorant' of the conduct of the alien or willing
to condone'it, would afford an easy means of evading the
statute. In the present case, in view of the finding of the
immigration officer, approved by the Secretary of Commerce and Labor, it must be taken as true that Li A. Sim,
notwithstanding her marriage relation, was found in a.
house of prostitution in violation of the statute. This
situation was one of her own making, and, conceding her
right to come into the United States and dwelt with her
husband because of his American citizenship, it is obvious that such right could have been retained by proper
conduct on her part and was only lost upon her violation
of the statute, she, being an alien, thereby forfeiting her
right to longer remain in this country. If it be admitted
that the present is a hard application of the rule of 'the
statute, with the effect of such law this court has nothing
to do. The provisions of the statute are plain, and it was
passed by Congress with full power over the subject. In
our view the present case is brought.within the terms of
the law, when given a reasonable construction with a
view to effecting its purposes.. Ifit ought to be amended
so as to except from its operation alien wives of American
citizens, that result can only be legitimately obtained in
the exercise of legislative authority.
Judgment affirmed.

