OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

225 U. S.

as any debtor, whether by judgment or otherwise, set off
against a claim or judgment, but in other respects it is
an adjudication binding him. He is so far a part of the
corporation that he is represented by it in the' action
against it."
There is no parallel between the relation of joint tortfeasors and that of a stockholder to his corporation. In
the latter case, the stockholder, by the organic law of his
corporation, is a member and represented by it so long as
it keeps within its corporate powers. In the other instance
one wrongdoer when sued does not represent those not
sued, although they had coperated in thewrong and were
both liable.
The conclusion we reach is that the Massachusetts
court did not deny full faith and credit to the New York
judgment, and its decrees are therefore
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES took no part in the hearing or
consideration of these cases.

STALKER v. OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IDAHO.
No. 225.

Argued April 24, 1912.-Decided May 27, 1912.

The act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 482, c. 152, granting rights of way
and station grounds for railroads through the public lands was a
grant in prcesenti of lands to be thereafter identified. Railroad Co.
v. Jones, 177 U. S. 125.
The right of way becomes definitely located by actual construction,
which is unmistakable evidence and notice of appropriation.
A selection and location of station grounds under the act of March 3,
1875, filed with the Secretary of the Interior after construction of the

STALKER v. OREGON SHORT LINE.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

railroad, is subject to approval by the Secretary, but the approval
relates back to the date of filing and thereupon the selection becomes superior to the intervening claim of an entryman initiated
while the selection was pending approval. Northern Pacific R. R.
Co. v. Doughty, 208 U. S. 251, where the station grounds selection
was made prior to actual construction of the railroad, distinguished.
The construction now given to the act of March 3, 1875, is in accordance with the settled practice of the Land Department; any other
construction would defeat the purpose of Congrcss in regard to encouraging the building of railroads through the public lands.
The failure of a subordinate of the Land Department to comply with
the regulations of the department and note selections properly
made by a railroad company cannot affect the rights of the company and permit the entry of the land pending approval of the
selections by the Secretary. Van Wyck v. Kevals, 1Q6 U. S.360.
A patent, issued to an entryman whose claim was initiated while the
selection of a railroad company was pending for approval, is not
an adjudication, but if, as in this case, the selection is approved,
such a patent is issued in violation of law and is inoperative to pass
title.
16 Idaho, 362, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the act of
March 3, 1875, granting station grounds on the public
lands to railroad companies, and the conflicting rights of
a company claiming thereunder and. an entryman, are

stated in the opinion.

Mr. Carl A. Davis, for plaintiffs in error, submitted.
Mr. Maxwell Evarts, with whom Mr. P. L. Williams
and Mr. A. A. Hoehling, Jr., were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action brought by the railroad company
under a statute of the State of Idaho to quiet title to
four certain lots in the town of Meridian, Idaho. ,The
judgment in the trial court for the railroad company was

affirmed in the Supreme Court of the State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

The defendant in error, as successor in title to the
Idaho Central Railway Company, claims that the property in question is a part of the station grounds granted
to its predecessor under the act of Congress of March 3,
1875, which grant in part conflicts with a preemption
entry made by one Joseph G. Reed, under whom the
plaintiffs in error claim. Th lands in question had been
surveyed and were open for entry long prior to the initiation of either of the claims here involved. The conflicting rights arose in this way: The Idaho Central Railway was duly qualified under the act of Congress of 1875
to acquire a right of way and station grounds. In June,
1887, its directors formally adopted a route between
Nampa and Boise City, which 'corresponded precisely
with the route upon which the railroad was later constructed. This adoption was followed up by the filing of
profile maps, which were approved by the Secretary of
the Interior on February 17, 1888, and sent back to the
proper land office at Boise City. These maps did not include grounds for station purposes. By September 1,
1888, the railroad was constructed along the route first
adopted, and at that date was in actual operation. On
September 12, 1888, the company filed in duplicate with
the Register of the Land Office at Boise City, a plat of
ground adjacent to its right of way, desired for station
purposes, which selection included the lots here in controversy. This plat was received by the Secretary of the
Interior on September 20, 1888, and approved on December 15, 1888. A copy was then transmitted to the register
at Boise City. That official received it, but failed and
neglected to "note the same upon the plats in the said
land office," as it was his duty to do, and-it is now stipulated that it has since been lost or mislaid and cannot be
found. A blue print of the original map of the station
grounds as selected by the plaintiff, with its certificates
and endorsements, was stipulated into the record.

STALKER v. OREGON SHORT LINE.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiffs in error claim through Joseph G. Reed, a
qualified entryman, who on October 18, 1888, filed a preemption claim upon 'a quarter section adjacent to the
railroad right of way. Later he made final proofs, and,
on August 4, 1891, a. patent issued. This preemption
included about twelve acres of the ground which the railroad company had theretofore 'elected for station purposes. There is no evidence of occupation of the portion
here involved, and no plea of innocent purchaser,. for value,
without notice. 'The question was decided by the state
court upon the rights resulting from the facts stated.
The case must turn upon -the interpretation of the act.
of Congress , of March 3, 1.875, 18 Stat. 482, c. 152.
The relevant sections are the first and fourth, which are
as follows:
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States of. America in Congress. assembled,
That the right of way through the public lands of the
United States is hereby granted to any railroad company
duly organized under the laws of any State or Territory,
except the District of Columbia, or by the Congress of the
United States, which shall have filed with the Secretary
of the Interior a copy of its articles of incorporation, and
due proofs of its organization under the same, to the. extent of one hundred feet on each side of the ce ntral line of
said road; also the right to take, from the public lands
adjacent to the line of said road, material, earth, stone,
and timber necessary for the construction of said railroad;
also ground adjacent to such right of way for stationbuildings, depots, machine shops, side-tracks, turn-outs,
and water-stations, not to exceed in amount twenty
acres for each station, to the extent of one station for
each ten miles of its road.
"SEc. 4.-That any railroad company desiring to secure
the benefits of this act, shall, within twelve months after
VOL. CCxxv-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

the location of any section of twenty miles of its road, if
the same be upon surveyed lands, and, if upon unsurveyed lands, within twelve months after the survey thereof
by the United States, file with the register of the land
office for the district where such land is located a profile
of its road; and upon approval thereof by the Secretary
of the Interior the same shall be noted upon the plats in
said office; and thereafter all such lands over which such
right of way shall pass shall be disposed of subject to such
right of wayi Provided, That if any section of said road
shall not be completed within five years after the location
of said section, the rights herein granted shall be forfeited
as to any such uncompleted section of said road."
The uniform construction of this act has been that it is
a grant "in pracsenti of lands to be thereafter identified."
Jamestown & N. Railroad v. Jones, 177 U. S. 125. In
that case the question was whether the right of way became definitely located by the actual construction of the
railroad, or only upon the filing of a map of location,
which was much later. The conclusion was that by the
actual construction of the railroad the boundaries of the
grant were fixed by the rule of the statute, which granted
a strip one hundred feet wide on each side of the center of
the track. That had k en the construction of the act by
the Interior Department, and was followed by the court
below. Mr. Justice McKenna, for this court, said (p. 131):
"The ruling gives a practical operation to the statute,
and we think is correct. It enables the railroad company
to secure the grant by an actual construction of its road,
or in advance of construction by filing a map [of its road]
as provided in section four. Actual construction of the
road is certainly unmistakable evidence and notice of
appropriation." It was therefore held that an entry
made after construction but before filing a map of location
was subject to the prior right of the railroad.
'Possibly station grounds might also have been secured

STALKER v. OREGON SHORT LINE.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by the actual marking of the boundaries and the construction of station houses, side tracks, etc. This we
need not decide. But the fourth section of the act provides a method for securing the benefits of the act in advance of actual construction.
Prior to the initiation of any right here involved the
Land Department put in force certain regulations to be
followed by railroad companies desiring to secure the
benefits of a grant in advance of actual construction, .as
provided by the fourth section of the act. One of these
required that upon the location of any section, not exceeding twenty miles in length, the company should file
with the register of the land district, in which the land lay
"a map for the approval of the Secretary of the Interior,
showing the termini of such portion and its route over the
public lands," etc. Another of these departmental regulations provided that "if the company desires to avail
itself of the provisions of the law, which grants the use of
ground adjacent to the right of way for station buildings

.

.

. it must file for approval, in each separate

instance, a plat showing in connection with the public
surveys, the surveyed limits -and area of the grounds desired." These regulations require that "a .copy" of the
approved map of "definite location," and of the "approved plat of grounds selected by a company, under the
act in question, for station purposes," shall be transmitted
to the register of the land office where the land lies. Upon
the receipt of the map of alignment, the land office is required "to mark upon the town-ship plats the line of the
route of the road as laid down on the map," and to note
in pencil on the tract books opposite the tract of public
land cut by said lines of railroad, "that the same is disposed of subject to the right of way," etc., and to write
upon the face of any certificate disposing of said lands,
after the filing of such approved-map of location, "that it
is allowed subject to the right of way." A like duty is

OCTOB ER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

put upon the register When an approved
station ground
plat is received.
The plat of the station grounds selected by the railroad company in this case was filed in the local land office
on September 12, 1888, and reached the Secretary of the
Interior on September 20, 1888. Both dates are antecedent to the filing df the preemption claim. But the
selection pended in the office of the Secretary of the Interior until December 15, 1888, on which date it was
approved. While thus*pending the preemption right of
Reed was initiated.
There can be no doubt,that the provisions of the fourth
section, for securing in advance of construction the benefits of the act, have application to the station grounds, as
well as to the right of way proper. The "benefits" to be
secured cover one as well as the other. The prerequisites
for securing either right, in advance, is the filing of a map
of location, whether it be for a right of way or for station
grounds. But until approved the appropriation stands
suspended.
The act of 1875 confers upon the railroad company the
"right to take" from the public lands adjacent to its right
of way, ground for station purposes. This "right to take"
in advance of construction, is subject to the approval of
the Secretary of the Interior. 'When, therefore, the railroad company has exercised its "right to take" a particular tract for station purposes, by filing a survey and plat
of the ground selected, the Secretary of the Interior is
called upon to interpret the law under which the
right to
take is claimed, and to determine the'lawfulness of the
taking, as of the time when the right was asserted by the
filing of the plat and survey. When he acts and for the
Government consents, by approving the plat, his approval
operates to give effect to the grant, the land upon which
it operates being thereby definitely determined. Therefore it is that a claim by another initiated pending his

STALKER v. OREGON SHORT LINE.
225 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

conclusion is cut off, by giving effect to the approval as
of the date when his action was invoked. The principle
is that which has been many times applied in conflicting
claims to indemnity lands, under railroad land grants.
In such cases the patent, when issued, is held to relate to
the date of the filing of the railroad company's list of selections in lieu of place lands lost, thereby defeating adverse rights initiated after the actual filing of the list of
selections. The same rule has likewise been applied to
lists of selections made by States to which a grant has
been made subject to location. In both classes of cases,
it has been many times ruled, that while no vested right
against the United States* is acquired until the actual
approval of the list of selectiions, the company does acqdire a right to be preferred over such an intervenor.
In other words, the patent, when issued, relates back to
the initiatory right, and cuts off all claimants whose
rights were initiated later. The question was fully reasoned out and the cases reviewed in Weyerhaeuser v.
Hoyt, 219 U. S. 380, and we can add nothing to the conclusiveness of that case.
But, it is said that the doctrine of relation does not
apply to the benefits to be acquired under the fourth
section of the act of March 3, 1875, because a railroad
desiring a right of way in advance . of construction must
do three specific things: first, make a definite location of
its route; second, file a profile map of its line with the
register of the land office for the district; and third, obtain the approval of that map by the Secretary of the
Interior; and that the act makes each of these things a
prerequisite to the acquirement of any right, by e9pressly
declaring that "thereafter all such lands over which such
right of way shall pass shall be disposed of subject to such
right of way."
In Minneapolis &c. Railroadv. Doughty, 208 U. S.251,
the question was whether a homestead application filed

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

after the railroad company had surveyed and staked out
its route across the quarter-section claimed, but before
the road had been constructed or its map of location filed,
was entitled to preference over the right later secured by
the approval of a map of alignment, following the route
which had been staked. The claim was that the approval
by the Secretary of the Interior of the map of location
related in date to the (late when the route was staked out,
and thus cut out the homestead claim. This court held
that the mere surveying and staking of a route was not
such actual possession and appropriation as to give effet
to the grant and bring the case under the authority of
Jamestown & N. Railroad v. Jones, 177 U. S. 125.
The distinction and essential difference between a mere
staking out of a route, which, being the act of the company alone, is changeable at its will, and actual construction, which necessarily fixes the position of the route and
consummates the purpose for which the grant of a right
of way is given, is very obvious, and was carefully pointed
out in the opinion of the court in the case referred to.
Another point was involved and decided in the Doughty
Case, namely, that the approval of the map of alignment
by the Secretary of the Interior would not relate to the
date of the surveying and staking out of the route. This
was manifestly so, since that survey and staking was
subject to change at any time before the permanent line
was located by the filing of a map of such locations for the
approval of the Secretary of the Interior. Therefore it is
that the doctrine of relation has always been applied in
reference to the date when the official action of the Department was invoked to confirm the location thus permanently settled. These points were conclusive against the
railroad company and were the only questions for decision.
The case was therefore rightly decided.
But that case does not control this. Here we are required to say whether a preemptor whose claim was.

STALKER v. OREGON SHORT LINE.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

initiated while the Secretary of the Interior had under
consideration the approval of a map of station grounds
thereby obtained a right to bE preferred. True, this approval did not occur until after the rights of the plaintiffs
in error had been initiated; but the patent to the preemptor did not issue until long after that approval. Upon
what principle can it be held-that the grant, which, under
any view of the case, is prior in date to the patent under
which plaintiffs in error claim, 'is subordinate in right as to
the overlap? Neither should the case of Railroad v.
Doughty be regarded as construing the fourth section of
the act as holding that pending the approval of a map of
final location, any right may be initiated which will be
superior to the title which vests upon such approval. No
such question was involved in that case. What is said in
the opinion about the grant of a right of way being dependent upon the doing of three things-location of road,
filing profile of it in the Land Office, and the approval
thereof by the Secretary of the Interior-and that "thereafter all such lands over which such right of way shall pass
shall be disposed of subject to such right of way," refers
to the non-vesting of any right as against the United States,
and not as denying the priority of right in the acquisition
of the premises as between parties growing out of priority
of application.
Any construction of the fourth section of the act of
1875 which would permit rights initiated while the Secretary of the Interior was considering the approval of a map
.of location of a right of way over public lands, or a plat of
survey of depot grounds, to prevail over rights resulting
from the prior commencement of proceedings for the acquisition of title, would be in conflict with the settled
practice of the Land Department and the repeated rulings
of this court under other acts. Shepley v. Cowan, 91
U. S. 330; Weyerhaeuser v. H'oyt, 219 U. S. 380.
Any other conclusion would lead to great confusion and

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

tend to defeat the purpose of the fourth section by inviting intervenors to initiate rights made desirable by the
disclosure of the land most available to the railroad company, and rights presumably hurtful to the railroad enterprise, which Congress intended to encourage and promote.
The principle applicable is fully discussed in Shepley v.
Cowan, cited above, where, after discussing certain prior
cases, the court said (p. 338):
"But whilst, according to these decisions, no vested
right- as against the United States is acquired until all the
prerequisites for the acquisition of the title have been
complied with; parties may, as against each other, acquire a right to be preferred in the purchase or other
acquisition of the land, when the United States have determined to sell or donate the property. In all such cases,
the first in time in the commencement of proceedings for
the acquisition of the title, when the same are regularly
followed up, is deemed to be the first in right."
The initiatory act, to which the final act of approval
relates, is the filing with the Secretary of the Interior of
the map of definite location. The mere surveying and
staking of a route is the tentative act of the railroad. It
might at will select a different route and. move its stakes.
But when it adopts a route definitely and then causes a
map of such route to be filed in the land office of the district, in 'duplicate, and then filed with the Secretary of
the Interior, a right is thereby initiated which, until disposed of, rightly precludes the creation of a later, right
and gives to the company, as prior in time, priority in
right. The foundation for this doctrine of relation is so
fully stated and so thoroughly vindicated by the opinion
in Weyerhaeuser v. Hoyt, citedabove, that we need say
nothing more.
It is next said that the register did' not, after a copy of
the approved map of station grounds had been transmitted

STALKER v. OREGON SHORT LINE.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to him, mark the proper township plat and tract books,
as required- by the regulations of the Land -Department,
so as to show the station land selected. This notation on
the books of, the local land office is for the purpose of
giving notice to future enterers. But this was not required to be done until the receipt in the Land Office of
the approved plat of station grounds. That approval
did not occur until December 15, 1888. Reed filed-his
right of preemption October 18, 1888, a date antecedent
to any possible notation. He could not, therefore, have
been misled but, on the other hand, had the constructive
notice which came from the then pending proceedings
before the Secretary ofthe Int.erior. But aside from this,
there are two answers to the contention: First, if we are
right in holding that the grant vested in the company
when the plat was approved, as of the date when filed,
the failure of the officer in the district land office to
properly mark the plat could not operate to defeat the
grant; and, secondly, the raihad company having done
everything which it was 'required by law to do, should
iiot be affected by the negligence of the register in not
dping a duty upon which the vesting of title as against
the United States did not depend. If the taking effect
of the grant had been made to depend upon his properly
marking the plat books, there would be no room for the
doctrine of relation to the initiatory step of filing the plat
of selection. As that is not the case, his neglect to do
something not vital to the vesting of, title will not defeat
the title so vested.
When the plat of station grounds was: approved by the
Land Department, the grounds so 'selected were segregated
from 'the public lands, and it was the duty of the Land
Department to -withdraw the land so granted 'from the
market. If a subordinate failed to make the 'proper notation by which this withdrawal would have been recorded,
it was 'not the fault of the railroad company. In Van

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

Wyck v. Knevals, 106 U. S. 360, 367, this court said of the
effect of the approval of a map of definite location:
"No further action is required of the company to establish the route. It then becomes the duty of the Secretary to withdraw the lands granted from market. But
if he. should neglect this duty, the neglect would not
impair the rights of the company, however prejudicial it
night prove to others. Its rights are not made dependent
upon the issue of the Secretary's order, or upon notice of
the withdrawal being given to the local land-officers."
We therefore conclude that the subsequent issue of a
patent to the land entered by Reed was subject to the
rights of the railroad company theretofore acquired by
approval of its station ground map. The patent is not an
adjudication concluding the paramount right of the company, but insofar as it included lands validly acquired
theretofore, was in violation of law, and inoperative to
pass title.
Certain other questions have been touched upon in the
briefs. None of them need special notice.
We find no error in the judgment of the Idaho court,
and it is, therefore
Affirmed.

