CLAIRMONT ,,. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

Sylblbus.

CLAIRMONT v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MONTANA.

No. 239. Submitted May 1, 1912.-Decided June 10, 1912.
The act of January 3.0,
1897, 29 Stat. 506, c.109, in regard to sale of
liquor to the Indians and introduction of liquor into Indian country,
repealed, as far as incensistent therewith, the Act of July 23, 1892,
27 Stat. 260, c. 234.
An indictment under the act of January 30, 1897 for introducing
liquor into Indian country cannot be sustained if the offense alleged
was committed on land within a State and which had been completely withdrawn from the reservation, and the Indian title thereto
surrendered so as not then to be Indian country. Under such circumstances the District Court of the United States has no jurisdiction.
Although that portion of the act of 1834 which defined Indian country
was repealed by ยง 5596 Rev. Stat., it may still be referred to in connection with the portion of the ac; remaining in forcein order to determine what must be regarded as Indian country when spoken of in
the statutes.
A cession by Indians may be qualified by a stipulation in the treaty
that the ceded terrilory, although within the boundaries'of a State,
shall retain its original status of Indian country so far as the introduction therein of liquor is cpnccrned.
The title to that part of the Flathead Reservation in Montana included
within the right of way of the Nbrthern Pacific Railway. Company,
has been completely withdrawn from the Reservation and the Indian title thereto extinguished and therefore is no longer Indian'
country within the meaning of the act of January 30, 1897.

THE facts, which involve the construction of Federal
statutes relative to introduction of liquor .to allottee
Indians and on allotments to Indians, are stated in the
opimion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for the United States.

225 U. S.

Mr. N. W. McConnell and Mr. 0. W. McConnell for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Denison, with whom
Mr. Louis G. Bissell, Attorney, was on the brief, for the
United States:
Beyond question the Indian land title in this strip had
been entirely extinguished. 13 Stat. 365; Northern Pacific
R. R. Co. v. Townsend, 190 U. S. 267; Buttz v. Northern
Pacific Railroad Co., 119 U. S. 355.
There is nowhere any express provision for the retention
of any Federal police power over this strip, excepting that
statements were made by the representative of the United
States in the council with the Indians which preceded their
deed to the effect that no liquor would be sold "on the
reservation at the depots;" that after the road was built
there would be "no white men to sell liquor," and that
"the white people will not be allowed to go on the reservation."
This informal and parol agreement, and the fact that the
grant was made for the limited purpose, and the physical
situation of the strip in reference to the reservation and in
its contact with the Indians brings this case under Dick
v. United States, 208 U. S. 340.
In the Montana enabling act, 25 Stat. 677, the United
States reserved its jurisdiction with reference to "unappropriated public lands.!'
In view of these conditions, the decisions of this court
in Maricopa Railroad Co. v. Arizona, 156 U. S. 347, and
Bates v. Clark, 95 U. S. 204, 208, 209, may perhaps finally
dispose of the case; and see Utah & Northern Ry. v. Fisher,
116 U. S. 28, which seems to imply that the grant of a
railroad right of way takes the land out of the reservation
only in so far as may be necessary for the particular purposes of the grant.
The territorial power to tax the railroad line is not nec-

CLAIRMONT v. -UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

Opinion of' the Court.

essarily inconsistent with the continuation of the Federal
police power for purposes of the discharge of the duty
toward the Indians. United States v. 43 Gallons of Whiskey, 93 U. S. 188; 108 U. S. 491; Uniited States v. McBratney, 104 U. S. 621; Thoma.p -. Gay, 169 U. S. 264, 277;
Draper v. United States, 164 lT. S. 240; Truscott v. Hurlburt
Land & Cattle Co., 73 Fed. Rep. 60.
The locus in quo was a part, of a tract definitely set apart
as a reservation for exclusive occupancy by the Indians,
12 Stat. 940. It, therefore, possessed its character as
Indian country more because of the specific action by
Congress than by reason of the original general definition
of Indian country.

4 Stat. 729.

As to United States v. 4 Bottles Sour Mash Whiskey, 90
Fed. Rep. 720, see 22 Ops. Atty. Genl. 232.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error was indicted by the grand jury
of the United States for th&District of Montana for introducing'intoxicating liquor into the Flathead Indian
Reservation. It appeared upon the trial in the District
Court that he lived on the reservation and at the time
of the alleged offense was :returning to his home from
Missoula on a train of the Northern Pacific Railway Company, intending to leave the train at Ravalli. A special
officer of the Interior Department boarded the train at
Arlee, and, finding a pint of whisky on the person of the
plaintiff in error, at once arrested him and took him back
to Missoula. Both Arlee and Ravalli are points within
the exterior limits of the reservation, which is crossed by
the right of way of the railway company.
The jury rendered a verdict of guilty, whereupon it
was urged by motion in arrest of judgment that the court
was without jurisdiction. The motion was denied and
the defendant was sentenced to imprisonment for sixty

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

days and to the payment of a fine of $100. The case
comes here on writ of error, the District Judge certifying
the question of jurisdiction. The conviction was had
under the act of January 30, 1897, c. 109,1 29 Stat. 506,
which provides:
"That any person who shall sell, give away, dispose of,
exchange, or barter any malt, spirituous, or vinous liquor,
including beer, ale, and wine, or any ardent or other
intoxicating liquor of any kind whatsoever . . . to
any Indian to whom allotment of land has been made
while the title to the same shall be held in trust by the
Government, or to any Indian a ward of the Government
under charge of any Indian superintendent or agent, or
any Indian, including mixed bloods, over whom the Government, through its departments, exercises guardianship,
and any person who shall introduce or attempt to introduce any malt, spirituous,' or vinous liquor, including
beer, ale, and wine, or any ardent or intoxicating liquor
of any kind whatsoever into the Indian country, which
term shall include any Indian allotment while the title
to the same shall be held in trust by the Government,
or while the same shall remain inalienable by the allottee
without the consent of the United States, shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than sixty days, and
by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars for the first
offense and not less than two hundred dollars for each
offense thereafter: Provided however, That the person convicted shall be committed until fine and costs are paid."
We are not here concerned with that portion of the
statute which penalizes selling or giving intoxicating
liquors to the Indians described or with the authority
of Congress to protect the Indian wards of the Nation.
repealed, so far as it was inconsistent, the act of July 23,
1892, c. 234, 27 Stat. 260, which amended ยง 2139 of the Revised
1 This

S4tutes.

CLAIRMONT v. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The indictment charged that the plaintiff in error "did,
then and there, wrongfully and unlawfully introduce" a
quantity of intoxicating liquor "into the Flathead Indian
Reservation, in the State and District of Montana,"
the said reservation "being an Indian country." The
offense alleged was the introduction of the liquor into
the reservation, and not "attempting to introduce. "
The Flathead Indian Reservation was established by
the treaty of July 16, 1855, between the United States
and the confederated tribes of the Flathead, Kootenay and
Upper Pend d'Oreilles Indians. 12 Stat. 975. It comprised a district now included within the boundaries of
the State of Montana. The Enabling Act of 1889, under
which the State was formed, required the adoption of an
ordinance, irrevocable in the absence of the consent of
the United States, providing: "That the people inhabiting" the proposed State "do agree and declare that they
forever disclaim all right and title to the unappropriated
public lands lying within the: boundaries thereof, and
to all lands lying within said limits owned or held by any
Indian or Indian tribes; and that until the title thereto
shall have been extinguished by the United States, the
same shall be and remain subject to the disposition of
the United States, and said Indian lands shall remain
under the absolute jurisdiction and control of the Congress of the United States." Act of February 22, 1889,
c. 180, 25 Stat. 676, 677.
By the act of July 2, 1864, c. 217, ยง 2, 13 Stat. 365, 367,
Congress granted a right of way through the public lands
to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company for the construction of a railroad and telegraph as proposed, "to
the extent of two hundred feet in width on each side of
said railroad," including all necessary ground for station
buildings, workshops, etc. It was provided that the
United States should "extinguish, as rapidly as may be
consistent with public policy and the welfare of the said

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

Indians, the Indian titles to all lands falling under the operation of this act, and acquired in the donation to the road
named in this bill." On July 5, 1882, the railroad company filed a map of definite location showing its line of
railroad across the southwestern part of the Flathead
reservation. Thereupon on September 2, 1882, the confederated tribes above mentioned entered into an agreement with the United States by which, after reciting
the grant by Congress of the right of way, the treaties
with the Indians, and the filing of the map of definite
location, the Indians surrendered and relinquished to
the United States "all the right, title and interest which
they now have under and by virtue of the aforesaid treaty
of July sixteenth, eighteen hundred and fifty-five, in
and to all that part of the Jocko (or Flathead) Reservation situate in the Territory of Montana and described
as follows, namely: A strip of land not exceeding, two
hundred feet in width, that is to say, one hundred feet
on each side of the line laid down on the map of definite
location hereinbefore mentioned wherever said line runs
through said reservation." In consideration of the "surrender and relinquishment of lands as aforesaid," amounting in the aggregate to 1430 acres, the United States
agreed to pay to the Indians the sum of $16,000. (Ex.
Doc. No. 15, 48th Cong. 1st sess.)
Thus, by the grant of Congress the railroad company
obtained the fee in the land constituting the "right of
way" (Buttz v. Northern Pacific R. R. Co., 119 U. S. 55,
56, 66; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Townsend, 190 U. S.
267, 271), and by virtue of the agreement between the
United States and the Indians this land was freed from
the Indian right of occupancy. As the Government
states in its brief: "Beyond question the Indian land
title in this strip had been entirely extinguished."
The question then is whether a person having intoxicating liquor in his possession on a railroad train running

CLAIRMONT v. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

on this strip can be deemed to have introduced the liquor
"into the Indian country" within the meaning of the
act of 1897. Was the strip "Indian country" so that
the District Court of the ]3nited States can be said to
have had jurisdiction of the alleged offense?
The act of June 30, 1834, c. 161, 4 Stat. 729, thus defined "the Indian country" :
"That all that part of the United States west of the
Mississippi, and .not within the states of Missouri and
Louisiana, or the territory of Arkansas, and, also, that
part of the United States east of the Mississippi river,
and not within any state to which the Indian title has
not been extinguished, for the purposes of this act, be
taken and deemed to be the ]Indian country."
This portion of the act of 1834 was not reenacted in
the Revised Statutes, though other parts of the statute
were, and hence was repealed by ยง 5596 of the revision.
But, as has frequently been stated by this court, the
definition may still "be referred to in connection with
the provisions of its original context which remain in
force, and may be considered in connection with the
changes which have taken place in our situation, with
a view of determining from time to time what must be
regarded as Indian country where it is spoken of in
the statutes." Ex parte Crow Dog, 109 U. S. 556, 561;
United States v. LeBris, 121 U. S. 278, 280.
The proper criterion to be applied was considered in
Bates v. Clark, 95 U. S. 204:, where Mr. Justice Miller,
delivering the opinion of the court, said (id., pp. 207, 208):
"Notwithstanding the immense changes which have
since taken place in the vast region covered by the act
of 1834, by the extinguishnent of Indian titles, the
creation of States and the formation of territorial governments, Congress has not thought it necessary to make
any new definition of Indian country. Yet during all
this time a large body of laws has been In existence,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

whose operation was confined to the Indian country,
whatever that may be.
"The simple criterion is that as to all the lands thus
described it was Indian country whenever the Indian
title had not been extinguished, and it continued to be
Indian country so long as the Indians had title to it, and
no longer. As soon as they parted with the title, it ceased
to be Indian country, without any further act of Congress, unless by the treaty by which the Indians parted
with their title, or by some act of Congress, a different
rule was made applicable to the case."
It must be assumed that, in the act of 1897, Congress
used the words "Indian country " in the accepted sense.
And this is confirmed by the provision bearing witness
to the policy which had been adopted looking to the
dissolution of tribal relations and the distribution of
tribal property in separate allotments. Thus, the act
provides that the term Indian country "shall include
any Indian allotment while the title to the same shall
be held in trust by the Government, or while the same
shall remain inalienable by the allottee without the consent of the United States." United States v. Sutton, 215
U. S. 291; Hallowell v. United States, 221 U. S. 317, 323,
324.
That the effect of a cession by the Indians might be
qualified by a stipulation in the treaty that the ceded
territory, although within the boundaries of a State,
should retain its original status of Indian country so far
as the introduction into it of intoxicating liquors was
concerned was decided in United States v. Forty-three
Gallons of Whiskey, &c., 93 U. S. 188; 108 U. S. 491. But,
as was pointed out in Bates v. Clark, supra, that decision
proceeded 'upon the hypothesis that "when the Indian
title is extinguished it ceases to be Indian country, unless
some such reservation takes it out of the rule." The
same principle of decision was recognized in Dick v.

CLAIRMONT v. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

Opinion-of the Court.

United States, 208 U. S. 340. There, the plaintiff in error
had been convicted of introducing intoxicating liquor
into the Nez Perce Indian R:eservation within the State
of Idaho. The offense was committed, if at all, in the
village of Culdesac, which, although within the boundaries
of the reservation as established before Idaho was admitted into the Union, was at the time specified in the
indictment an organized village of that State. The lands
upon which the village was located were part of those
ceded to the United States by an agreement with the
Indians in which it was stipulated that the ceded lands,
as well as those retained, should be subject for the period
of twenty-five years to all Federal laws prohibiting the
introduction of intoxicants into the Indian country. It
was held that this was a valid. stipulation based upon the
treaty-making power of the United States and upon the
power of Congress to regula-te commerce with the Indians,
and was "niot inconsistent, in any substantial sense, with
the constitutional principle that a new State comes into
the Union upon entire equality with the original States"
(p. 359). Upon this ground the judgment of conviction
was affirmed.
While the Dick Case was thus found, owing to the
stipulation in the agreement, to be within the exception,
the court explicitly -recognized. the rule which governs in
the absence of a different provision by treaty or by
act of Congress. The court said (p. 352): "If this case
depended alone upon the Federal liquor statute forbidding
the introduction of intoxicating drinks into the Indian
country, we should feel obliged to adjudge that the trial
court erred in not directing a verdict for the defendant;
for that statute, when enacted, did not intend by the
words 'Indian country' to erabrace any body of territory in which, at the time, the Indian title had been extinguished, and over which and over the inhabitants
of which (as was the case of Culdesac) the jurisdiction

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

of the State, for all purposes of government, was full
and complete. Bates v. Clark, 95 U. S. 204; Ex pare
Crow Dog, 109 U. S. 556, 561."
In the present case there was no provision, either in
the treaty with the Indians, or-by act of Congress, which
limited the effect of the surrender of the Indian title.
We have been referred to certain statements made by
the representative of the United States in the course of
the negotiations with the Indians which preceded. their
agreement, but :these were of an informal character and
cannot be regarded as qualifying the agreement that was
actually made. The Indian title or right of occupation
was extinguished, without reservation; and the relinquished strip came under the jurisdiction of the then
Territory and later under that of the State of Montana.
It was not "unappropriated public land," or land "owned
or held by any Indian or Indian tribe." (Enabling Act,
supra.)
To repeat, the plaintiff in error was not charged with
"attempting to introduce" the liquor into Indian country,
but with the actual introduction. If having the liquor
in his possession on the train on this right of way did not
constitute such introduction, it is immaterial so far as
the charge is concerned whether or not he intended to
take it elsewhere. Nor is it important that the plaintiff
in error was an Indian. The statute makes it an offense
for "any person" to introduce liquor into Indian country.
Our conclusion must be that the right of way had been
completely withdrawn from the reservation by the surrender of the Indian title and that in accordance with
the repeated rulings of this court it was not Indian country. The District Court therefore had no jurisdiction
of the offense charged and the judgment must be reversed.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded with
directions to quash the indictment and discharge the
defendant.

