PICKFORD v. TALBOTT.
Syllabus.

225 U. S.

PICKFORD
APPEA,

1)...TALBOTT.

FROM THE COURT OF' APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 512.

Argued April 29,-, 1912.-Decided June 7, 1912.

Ia order to warrant a court of equity in restraining the enforcement
of a judgment at law, the defeated party must show that it is manifestly unconscionable for the judgment creditor to enforce it; it is
not sufficient for him merely to show that because of newly discovered facts or evidence he would have a better prospect of success on
a retrial.
It is incumbent on one seeking to have the enforcement of a judgment
against him enjoined by a court of equity on the ground of newly
discovered evidence to show that his failure to discover the evidepce
relied upon as defense was not attributable to his own want of diligence.
For the purpose of equity restraining the enforcement of a judgment
at law, a defense is not deemed to be newly discovered or to have
been lost by accident or mistake, if it was, or ouglit to have been,
within the knowledge of the party when he made his defense to the
action at law.
A defendant in a libel suit who deliberately abstained from defending
by justification of the charges, cannot, after verdict and judgment
against him, come into equity and seek to restrain the enforcement
of the judgment on the ground of newly discovered evidence tending
to prove the truth of the charges.
Qutere whether a defendant in a libel suit who made a public charge
of malfeasance in office without having evidence of truth sufficient
to warrant prudent counsel in making an issue of it, is not barred
from relief in equity under the doctrine of clean hands.
36 App. D. C. 289, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve an attempt to restrain in an
action in equity the enforcement of a judgment obtained
on the law side of the court against complainant in an
action for libel, are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, '1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

Mr. Henry E. Davis, with whom Mr. Samuel Maddox
and Mr. H. Prescott Gatley were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. John Ridout for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an equity action, brought by the appellants
against the appellee and others, in the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia, to obtain an injunction restraining the enforcement of a judgment theretofore recovered
by the appellee against the appellants in an action for
libel. That action was on the law side of the Supreme
Court of the District, and resulted in a verdict and judgment for, $8,500 damages, which on review was affirmed
by the Court of Appeals (28 App. D. C. 498) and by this
court (211 U. S. 199).
The present action was commenced after the final affirmance of the judgment at law. Upon the filing of the
bill of complaint herein, with accompanying exhibits, the
court made a temporary restraining order. This was continued until the final hearing, and that hearing resulted
in a decree granting a perpetual injunction against the
enforcement of the judgment. The defendants in the
equity action, other than the present appellee, were joined
for reasons not now material. He alone appealed from
the final decree to the Court of Appeals of the District,
which reversed the decree and ordered the cause to be
remanded to the court below, with direction to dismiss the
bill of complaint (36 App. 1). C. 289). From the decree of
reversal Pickford and Walter have appualed- to this court,
thus presenting for our decision the (question whether,
upon the pleadings- an proofs, they are entitled to an
injunction restraining the enforcement of Talbott's judgment against them.

PICKFORD v. TALBOTT.
225 U. S.

Opinion of 'he Court.

The equitable jurisdiction is invoked upon the ground
that after the conclusion of the litigation at law the appellants discovered certain evidence which, if known- at
the time, might and would have enabled them to make a
different defense in the court of law, and which it is alleged would assuredly have led to a different result there;
it being insisted that the appellants were not at fault in
failing to discover the evidence referred to.
A brief history of the controversy between the parties
is essential to an understanding of the qliestions presented.
In the month of March, 1901, while the appellee, Talbott, was State's attorney for Montgomery County, Maryland, an indictment was returned by the grand jury of
that county charging Pickford and Walter, the appellants,
and two others named in the indictment, with having unlawfully, wilfully and maliciously set fire to and burned a
certain untenanted dwelling house, the property of said
Pickford and Walter. A dwelling house owned by them,
situate in Montgomery County, had in fact been destroyed
by fire in the latter part of the year 1897, and. the fire insurance companies, after some demur, had paid to the
owners sums aggregating $22,500. It is said to have
been the purpose of the indictment to attribute to the
defendants named therein art attempt to defraud the insurance companies. Three of those defendants (including
Walter, but not Pickford), being arrested in the District
of Columbia, where they resided, sued out writs of habeas
corpus in the District, and were released on the ground.
that the indictment did not set forth any crime. Pickford
surrendered himself in Montgomery County and gave bil
to answer the indictment, anti his trial was set down for a
day in the following November before the Circuit Court.
He duly appeared, but Talbott, as State's attorney, asked
for a postponement on the ground that he was not ready
for trial. Th6 court strongly intimated that there ought
to be no postponement, and upon this intimation (and

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U, S.

perhaps partly because of the question that had been raised
about the sufficiency of -the indictment) Talbott entered a
nolle prosequi as to Pickford. Later, he did the same
with respect to Walter.
Thereafter, and in the month of December, 1901, Pickford and Walter procured to be published in the columns
of a newspaper in Washington an article concerning Talbott which was the ground of his action against them for
libel. A copy of the article was included in the declaration
ii that suit and vas attached to and made a part of the
bill of complaint herein. Through some inadvertence it
was omitted in the printing of the record, but upon the
argument we were, by consent of counsel, referred for
information as to its contents to the record that was here
on the former occasion (211 U. S. 199). The article purported to show "the true inwardness of the criminal
scheme that culminated in this nefarious indictment,"
and declared that '"we shall state the facts as we have
learned them after a thorough investigation." It charged
Talbott, as State's attorney, with participation in an a1leged conspiracy to force Pickford and Walter, by means
of an unfounded indictment, to repay to the insurance
companies the Unoneys that had been paid by them to
Pickford and Walter for the fire loss.
The libel suit was commenced in the year 1902. The
final affirmance of the judgment therein was on November 30, 1908. The present action was begun in the following month of January.
The bill of complaint avers that at the time of the filing
of the declaration in the libel suit the complainants believed it to be true (the ground of that belief is not distinctly averred) that Talbott had caused the indictment
to be procured for the purpose of obtaining from the insurance companies certain large sums of money, and had
thus used his public-office for his personal gain; that they
so informed their counsel before the filing of their pleas,

PICKFORD v. TALBOTT.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

but were advised by counsel that should they attempt-to
justify the publication of the article by pleading the truth
thereof, and fail to make good such plea by evidence to
the satisfaction of the court and jury, the attempt at
justification would be held to be a repetition and republication of the-libel, and would aggravate the damages
to be recovered in the action; that they were, on the other
,hand, advised by their counsel that if they should plead
"1iot guilty" to the declaration they would probably be
excluded from endeavoring to prove the truth of the
alleged libel; and that the complainants, being unable,
after due diligence, to procure and submit to their counsel
evidence which in the opinion of counsel might properly
and safely be offered on the trial of the action in justification of the alleged libel and in proof of the truth thereof,
were compelled to confine,, and did confine, their defense
to the general issue, and were thereby deprived of the opportunity to offer evidence tending to-prove its truth; but
that upon the trial they were permitted to introduce,
and did introduce (not in justification of the alleged libel
nor to prove the truth thereof, but to show absence of
malice on their part and thus to mitigate the damages),
sundry matters and things which are set forth at great
length in the bill, all of which, it is averred, were known
to the complainants at and before the composition and'
publication of the libel.
So far as appears, the matters thus recited furnished the
sole basis for their alleged belief that Talbott had prostituted
his office in the manner alleged in the newspaper article.
Without repeating them here, it is enough to say that it
those matters did in fact constitute their whole case against
Talbott, their counsel was probably correct in his judgment that a plea of justification, supported by such evidence alone, would be deemed a republication of the libel
and a ground for allowing increased damages against them.
The bill of complaint further avers that before pleading

.656

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of thc Court.

225 U. S.

to the declaration the appellants and their 'counsel diligently inquired of every person believed to have any
possible knowledge in the premises, with the view to obtaining and producing testimony tending to support a
plea of justification and to prove the truth of the matter
alleged as libelous, but without avail.
It also alleges that the like diligent inquiries were continued after the triil of the cause down to the. filing of the
bill, but wholly without result until the twenty-ninth day,
of December, 1908, when, in an accidental meeting between
one of the counsel for the appellants and Hon. James B.
Henderson, one of the judges of the Circuit Court for
Montgomery County, who held that office at the time of
the indictment referred to, Judge Henderson informed
counsel of a conversation said to have taken place between
him and Talbott while the indictment was pending, in
which conversation Talbott stated to the judge in substance that he was keeping the indictment alive in order
to assist the insurance companies in an effort to recover
from Pickford and Walter the moneys that had been paid
to them for the fire loss i and that he, Talbott, or his firm,
would get a large fee out of-the business.
The bill rests the prayer for relief against the 'udgment
at law solely upon the ground that the evidence of JudgHenderson, taken in connection with the other matters
and things that were given in evidence on the trial of the
libel suit as mentioned, would have caused the jury to
render a verdict in favor of the defendants, Pickford and
Walter.
Talbott answered the bill, fully and specifically denying
all 'allegations thereof that attributed improper conduct
to him, and expressly denying the alleged conversation
between him and Judge Henderson, and denying that he
had kept the indictment alive for personal gain, and every
other improper inference deducible from the alleged conversation. The answer called upon complainants to make

PICKFORD v. TALBOTT.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

strict proof of the averments of the bill respecting the conferences between complainants and their counsel and respecting what was done by them about the preparation
of their defense in the action at law, and denied that if
the truth of the libelous matter had been pleaded and the
evidence of Judge Henderson introduced the result of the
trial would have been different; averring that if the pleadings had been such as to admit his testimony the door
would have been opened for the admission of other evidence unfavorable to the complainants.
After the filing of this answer the complainants, by
leave of the court, amended and supplemented their
original bill of complaint by the addition of a considerable
amount of new matter. Included in it is an averment
that the indictment of -Pickford and Walter, as above
mentioned, was in fact caused by and through a conspiracy between Talbott and others, with the object of extorting money from the complainants, and that everything done by Talbott in reference to the indictment was
done in pursuance of that conspiracy. To this, by a further
answer, Talbott entered an unequi vocal denial.
Upon these pleadings, and. upon proofs submitted by
the respective parties in support thereof, the cause was
brought to final hearing, with .the result already mentioned.
The principles upon which the decision of the case must
turn are entirely familiar. In order to warrant the interposition of a court of equity to restrain the enforcement
of a judgment at law, it is, of course, not sufficient for the
defeated party to show that because of some newly discovered evidence pertaining to an issue in the case, or
because of some newly discovered fact that might have
been put in issue, he would probably have a better prospect
of success on a retrial of the action. He must show something to render it manifestly unconscionable for his successful adversary to enforce the judgment.
VOL. ccxxv-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

As Chief Justice Marshall said: "'Without attempting
to draw any precise line to which courts of equity will
advance, and which they cannot pass, in restraining parties from availing themselves of judgments obtained at
law, it may safely be said that any fact which clearly
proves it to be against cch-sience to execute a judgment,
and of which the injured party could not have availed
himself in a court Qf law; or ofwhich he might have availed
himself at law, but was prevented by fraud or accident
unmixed with any fault or negligence in himself or his
agents, will justify an application to a court of chancery."
Marine Ins. Co. v. Hodgson, 7 Cranch, 332, 336. Or, as
Mr. Justice Curtis expressed it, in Hendrickson v. Hiwkley, 17 How. 443, 445: "A court of equity does not interfere with judgments at law, unless the complainant has
an equitable defense, of which he could n.ot avail himself
at law, because it did not amount to a legal defense, or
had a good defense at law, which he was prevented- from
availing himself of by fraud or accident, unmixed with
negligence of himself or his agents."
One who seeks relief in equity against a judgment at law
on the ground that through accident or mistake alone,
unmixed with fraud, he has lost the benefit of a defense
that would have been available in the court of law, must
show entire freedom from fault or neglect on the part of
himself and his agents, and must also make it manifest

that the judgment against him is wrong on the merits,
that he ought in justice to prevail, and that upon a retrial, with the aid of the newly discovered matter of fact
or of evidence, it is reasonably certain that he will prevail.
Pom. Eq. Jur. (3d ed.) §§ 1364, 1365, and notes.
The trial court rested its decision adverse to Talbott
upon the theory that if it were true that he had misused
his office as State's attorney, and, because of spite or for
*any other selfish or personal reason, had wrongfully procured an unjust indictment against Pickford and Walter,

PICKFORD v. TALBOTT.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

he ought not, in equity and good conscience, to be permitted to collect damages against them for publishing his
misconduct, because he would. thereby be taking advantage of his own wrong. The court recognized that this
theory was applicable only if the statements made in the
libelous article were true; and, accepting Judge Henderson's testimony as conclusive upon that issue, the court
held it to be unconscionable for Talbott to enforce his
judgment. We find it unnecessary to.test the correctness
of the theory, because, .like the Court of Appeals, we differ
with the trial court upon the question of fact. Under the
pleadings, the burden was upon the complainants (now
appellants) to prove the official, misconduct of Talbott,
and this they failed to -prove.
The Court of Appeals, correctly considering-that most
of the evidence was wholly irrelevant to the issues, and
that substantially the only material evidence in support
of the bill was that of Judge Henderson, and reviewing
his testimony in extenso, came to the conclusion that it
not only did not conclusively establish the truth of the
matters alleged in the libelous article, but did not render
it clear beyond reasonable doubt that it would produce a
verdict favorable to the complainants if a new trial of the
libel suit should be had. Attention was called to the fact
that Judge Henderson testified to a conversation had with
Talbott about nine years before, of which he had no
memorandum to refresh his memory; that his examination
showed his memory to be not entirely reliable; that Talbott
expressly denied making the incriminatory statements attributed to him; that it was improbable that a lawyer of
his standing, holding the important office of States attorney, would, without apparent motive, deliberately make
an admission to any one, much less to the judge of his
circuit, that he was using the powers and opportunities
of his office for private gain; and that it was-improbable
that such an admission, if made under such circumstances,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

would go unrebuked at the time. With this view we
agree.
All question of fraud in the procurement of the judgment at law is thus eliminated. Indeed, counsel for appellants disavow any reliance upon fraud as a ground -of
relief. To quote from the brief: "The bill makes no averment whatever as to any fraud on the part of the appellee,
plaintiff in the law suit, in procuring the judgment in
question; the ground on which relief is prayed is accident,
as distinguished from fraud."
Next, we agree with the Court of Appeals that, assuming
the newly discovered evidence elicited from Judge Henderson would otherwise be sufficient ground for restraining the enforcement of the judgment, it was incumbent
upon the appellants under the pleadings in the present

action to prove that their failure to discover evidence of
the truth of the libel and plead the same by way of defense
in the action at law was not attributable to their own
want of diligence. The bill alleges that they made diligent but unsuccessful efforts to discover such evidence,
both before and after the filing of their plea. The answer
calls for strict proof of this. But the averment is left
entirely unsupported by the proofs in the case. Neither
Pickford nor Walter nor their counsel in the libel suit gave
any evidence tending to show any effort, diligent or otherwise, to discover evidence of the truth of the libel.
We do not hold them negligent merely because of not
having sooner discovered that Judge Henderson was
available as a witness. He himself testified to the effect

that, because of the character of the communication, he
was careful not to reveal what was said by Mr. Talbott
to him until after the conclusion of the libel suit. But,

assuming that what was charged against Mr. Talboft in
the newspaper article was true, it is not to be assumed that
diligent efforts would have discovered no other evidence
of its truth. All of Talbott's dealings with the insurance

PICKFORD v. TALBOTT.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

companies and with the other persons concerned in his alleged misconduct were within the range of investigation,
had diligence been exercised.
Again, one of the peculiar fieatures presented by this case
is the following: Appellants:, coming into equity for relief
on the basis-of Judge Henderson's evidence, rely upon it
not as newly discovered evidence alone, but as evidence
of a newly discoVered fact.' Merely as evidence it would
not have been admissible on the former trial, justification
not having been pleaded. It is upon the fact alleged to
have been disclosed by Judge Henderson-the fact being
Mr. Talbott's alleged misconduct, and not merely his
alleged admission of it-that appellants are relying as a
newly discovered defense to the action for libel. Now, the
settled rule in equity is that a defense is not to be deemed
"newly discovered," or as lost by "accident or mistake,"
if it was or ought to have been within the knowledge of
the party when he was called upon for his defense in the
action at law. As Lord Hardwicke said, "As to relieving
against verdicts, for being contrary to equity, those cases
are, where the plaintiff knew the fact of his own knowledge
to be otherwise than what the jury find by their verdict,
and the defendant was ignorant of it at the trial." Williams
v. Lee, 3 Atk. 223, 224. Chancellor Kent said: "The
general rule is, that this court -will not relieve against a
judgment at law, on the ground of its being contrary to
equity, unless the defendant below was ignorant of the
fact in question, pending the suit, or it could not have
been received as a defense." Lansing V. Eddy 1 Johns.
Ch. 49, 51. See also Taylor v. Nashville & C. RailroadCo.,
86 Tennessee, 228, and cases cited.
But how can the appellants be heard to say that when
making their defense at law they were ignorant of the
truth of the matters charged against Talbott in the newspaper article, when they themselves were the authors of
those charges? Not only do the verdict and judgment in

662

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

the libel suit legally establish their responsibility for the
published accusation, but such responsibility is tacitly
admitted in the bill of complaint herein, and there is
nothing to throw doubt upon it.
Upon the whole case, therefore, it cannot be said that
appellants omitted to plead justification in the libel suit
because of any "accident" or "mistake" within the meaning of the equitable rule. That defense was considered
by them and their counsel and deliberately and advisedly
rejected because (a) it could not be sustained, and (b) a
failure to sustain it. would probably embarrass them in
their defense under the general issue, or rather, would
render it probable that in the anticipated event of the
plaintiff prevailing over them on the general issue, increased damages would be awarded against them because
of the reiteration of the libel in a plea of justification. And
if when called upon to make defense in the libel suit they
had no sufficient evidence at hand to maintain the truth
of the published matter, this must on the present record
be attributed to one or the other of two causes. One is,
that the published matter was in fact untrue; the other
is, that they did not use proper diligence to discover
evidence of its truth. Either explanation leaves them
without claim to relief in this action.
The question whether appellants, because of having
originally made a. public accusation of malfeasance in.
office against the appellee without having evidence of the
truth of the accusation sufficient even to warrant prudent
counsel in making an issue of it in a libel suit, are barred
from relief in equity under the doctrine of "clean hands,"
it is unnecessary to consider.
It seems to us that the case of the appellants is without
merit, and the decree under review will b.
Affirmed.

