CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1997

BROWN v. WILLIAMS ET AL.
ON MOTION FOR LEAVE TO PROCEED IN FORMA PAUPERIS
No. 97-5370. Decided October 20, 1997
Prose petitioner seeks leave to proceed informapauperis so that he may
file a petition for a writ of certiorari to the Sixth Circuit. Since 1994,
when this Court invoked its Rule 39.8 to deny him in forma pauperis
status, Brown v. Brown, 513 U. S. 1040, he has filed eight petitions, each
of which has been denied without recorded dissent.
Held Petitioner's motion to proceed in forma pauperis is denied. For
the reasons discussed in Martin v. District of Columbia Court of Appeals, 506 U.S. 1, he is also barred from filing any further certiorari
petitions in noncriminal matters unless he first pays the required docketing fee and submits his petition in compliance with Rule 33.1.
Motion denied.
PER CURIAM.

Pro se petitioner Carson Lynn Brown seeks leave to proceed in forma pauperis in order that he may file a petition
for a writ of certiorari to the United States Court of Appeals
for the Sixth Circuit, which dismissed his appeal after he
failed to pay the required filing fee.
We deny petitioner leave to proceed in forma pauperis.
He is allowed until November 10, 1997, within which to pay
the docketing fee required by this Court's Rule 38(a) and to
submit his petition in compliance with Rule 33.1. For the
1

BROWN v. WILLIAMS
STEVENS, J.,

dissenting

reasons discussed below, we also direct the Clerk of the
Court not to accept any further petitions for certiorari in
noncriminal matters from petitioner unless he first pays the
docketing fee required by Rule 38(a) and submits his petition
in compliance with Rule 33.1.
Petitioner has a history of abusing this Court's certiorari
process. In 1994, we invoked Rule 39.8 to deny petitioner
in forma pauperis status. Brown v. Brown, 513 U. S. 1040
(1994). Undeterred by this action, petitioner has continued
filing frivolous petitions with this Court. To date, petitioner
has filed eight petitions over the last eight years, each of
which has been denied without recorded dissent. In the instant petition, Brown alleges that certain prison officials conspired to violate his constitutional rights by, inter alia,denying him access to the courts and sabotaging his laundry, and
that the District Judge below was biased against him as an
"African Jew." These claims are patently frivolous.
We enter this order barring prospective in forma pauperis filings by petitioner for the reasons discussed in Martin v. District of Columbia Court of Appeals, 506 U. S. 1
(1992) (per curiam). Because petitioner has limited his
abuse of the certiorari process to noncriminal cases, we limit
our sanction accordingly.
It is so ordered.
dissenting.
For reasons previously stated, see Martin v. District of
Columbia Court of Appeals, 506 U. S. 1, 4 (1992), and cases
cited, I respectfully dissent.
JUSTICE STEVENS,

