OCTOBER TERM, 1997

Per Curiam

ARTEAGA v. UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT
ON MOTION FOR LEAVE TO PROCEED IN FORMA PAUPERIS
No. 97-6749.

Decided February 23, 1998*

Held: Abusive fler's motion to proceed informa pauperisis denied; and
for the reasons discussed in Martin v. District of Columbia Court of
Appeals, 506 U. S. 1, he is barred from filing any further certiorari petitions in noncriminal matters unless he first pays the required docketing
fee and submits his petition in compliance with Rule 33.1.
Motion denied.

PER CURIAM.

Pro se petitioner Lorenzo Arteaga seeks leave to proceed
informa pauperis to file a petition for a writ of certiorari to
the Ninth Circuit. The Ninth Circuit affirmed the District
Court's dismissal with prejudice of petitioner's complaint for
failure to amend his complaints pursuant to the District
Court's instructions.
We deny petitioner leave to proceed in forma pauperis.
He is allowed until March 16, 1998, within which to pay the
docketing fee required by Rule 38 and to submit his petition
in compliance with Rule 33.1.

For the reasons discussed

below, we also direct the Clerk of the Court not to accept
any further petitions for certiorari in noncriminal matters
from petitioner unless he first pays the docketing fee required by Rule 38 and submits his petition in compliance
with Rule 33.1.
Petitioner has filed 20 petitions with this Court, 16 in the
past two Terms. All have been denied without recorded
dissent. In 1997, we invoked Rule 39.8 to deny petitioner in
forma pauperis status. Arteaga v. California,post, p. 804.
Petitioner nevertheless has ified another frivolous petition
*Together with Arteaga v. Wilson, Governor of California,et al., also
on motion for leave to proceed in forma pauperis.

Cite as: 522 U. S. 446 (1998)
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

with this Court. In his petition and supplemental petition,
Arteaga appears to assert that he is an innocent person
falsely imprisoned and to allege numerous constitutional
violations and conspiracies among prison, court, and government officials. He does not address the reasons for the
District Court's dismissal.
Accordingly, we enter this order barring prospective in
forma pauperis filings by petitioner in noncriminal cases
for the reasons discussed in Martin v. District of Columbia
Court of Appeals, 506 U. S. 1 (1992) (per curiam).
It is so ordered.
dissenting.
For reasons previously stated, see Martin v. District of
Columbia Court of Appeals, 506 U. S. 1, 4 (1992) (STEVENS,
J., dissenting), and cases cited, I respectfully dissent.
JUSTICE STEVENS,

