OPINIONS OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICES IN
CHAMBERS

BRACY

ET A.

v. UNITED STATES

ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-798 (77-1360).

Decided March 29, 1978

Application for stay of Court of Appeals' judgment affirming applicants'
narcotics convictions and denying rehearing, pending a petition for

certiorari wherein it is claimed that the indictment should be dismissed
because a witness committed perjury before the grand jury, is denied
where it does not appear that four Justices would vote to grant certiorari. An indictment is not invalidated by the introduction of inadmissible evidence before the grand jury, which sits not to determine the
truth of the charges but only to determine whether there is probable
cause to believe them true so as to require the defendant to stand trial.

Mi.

JUSTICE RHNQwIST,

Circuit Justice.

Applicants were convicted of several related narcotics offenses in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of California. The Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit affirmed their convictions, and denied their petition for
rehearing on February 28, 1978. That court granted their
request for a stay of its mandate only pending consideration of
their petition for rehearing, and not pending their petition for
certiorari. The Court of Appeals denied rehearing and issued
its mandate, and applicants now request that I stay the enforcement of the judgment of the Court of Appeals pending
disposition of that petition for certiorari here.
The chief contention raised by applicants in their petition
for certiorari is that a witness committed perjury before the
grand jury which indicted them. The witness admitted his
perjury at trial, and applicants moved to dismiss the indictment, contending that the prosecutor should have immediately
1301

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion in Chambers

435 U. S.

informed the defense and the court when he became aware of
the perjury. The District Court denied the motion, and the
Court of Appeals affirmed, relying on its opinion in United
States v. Basurto, 497 F. 2d 781, 785-786 (1974), which held
that perjury by a witness would invalidate an indictment
only when his testimony was material.
Applicants rely upon such cases as Mooney v. Holohan, 294
U. S. 103 (1935), in support of their contention that the
disclosure of the perjury required the court to declare a
mistrial on its own motion. Pet. for Cert. 10. In that case,
this Court first held that the knowing introduction of perjured
testimony at a criminal trial rendered the resulting conviction
constitutionally invalid. Later cases have held that the
prosecutor has a duty to correct testimony he knows to be
false, even if its introduction was not knowing and intentional.
Giglio v. United States,405 U. S. 150 (1972); Napue v. Illinois,
360 U. S. 264 (1959). Applicants suggest that the prosecutor
has a similar duty with regard to testimony introduced in
grand jury proceedings which is later shown to have been false.
Because it seems to me that applicants misconceive the
function of the grand jury in our system of criminal justice, I
cannot conclude that four Justices of this Court are likely to
vote to grant their petition. The grand jury does not sit to
determine the truth of the charges brought against a defendant, but only to determine whether there is probable cause
to believe them true, so as to require him to stand trial.
Because of this limited function, we have held that an indictment is not invalidated by the grand jury's consideration of
hearsay, Costello v. United States, 350 U. S. 359 (1956), or by
the introduction of evidence obtained in violation of the
Fourth Amendment, United States v. Calandra,414 U. S. 338
(1974). While the presentation of inadmissible evidence at
trial may pose a substantial threat to the integrity of that
factfinding process, its introduction before the grand jury
poses no such threat. I have no reason to believe this Court

BRACY v. UNITED STATES
1301

1303

Opinion in Chambers

will not continue to abide by the language of Mr. Justice Black
in Costello, supra,at 363: "An indictment returned by a legally
constituted and unbiased grand jury, like an information
drawn by the prosecutor, if valid on its face, is enough to call
for trial of the charge on the merits. The Fifth Amendment
requires nothing more."
The application is denied.

