1304

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion in Chambers

435 U. S.

VETTERLI ET AL. V. UNITED STATES DISTRICT
COURT FOR THE CENTRAL DISTRICT OF
CALIFORNIA ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-830 (77-1395).

Decided April 10, 1978

Public school officials sought a stay, pending disposition of a motion for
leave to fie a petition for writ of mandamus and of a petition for writ of
mandamus, of the District Court's order allegedly issued in violation
of this Court's judgment in Pasadena City Board of Education v.
Spangler, 427 U. S. 424, in that it had the effect of reimposing a
desegregation plan requirement, held unauthorized by this Court, that
there be no school in the system "with a majority of any minority
students." There being no clear indication in the record that the order
had such effect, it does not appear that five Members of this Court
would vote to grant a writ of mandamus and the application for a
stay is denied.

MR. JuSTICE REHNQUIST,

Circuit Justice.

Applicants, members of the Pasadena City Board of Education, seek a stay of an order issued by the United States
District Court for the Central District of California, pending
disposition of a motion for leave to file a petition for a writ
of mandamus and of a petition for writ of mandamus.' They
claim that portions of the District Court's order violate the
decision and judgment of this Court in PasadenaCity Board
of Education v. Spangler, 427 U. S. 424 (1976), and that the
order, unless stayed, will subject them to the irreparable harm
of having to engage in burdensome and disruptive activities
necessary to comply with the District Court's order. Since
my reading of the record indicates that the order does not conflict with our decision in Spangler, supra, I decline to issue
the stay.
'Three separate orders are actually involved, but all are substantially

identical.

VETTERLI v. UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
1304

1305

Opinion in Chambers

Spangler arose out of a suit commenced in 1968 by high
school students and their parents, alleging that various school
officials had unconstitutionally segregated the public schools in
Pasadena. In 1970, after trial, the District Court, holding
that the defendants had violated the Fourteenth Amendment,
ordered them to submit a plan for desegregation which would
provide that beginning with the 1970-1971 school year there
would be no school "with a majority of any minority students."
The defendants complied. In 1974, however, applicants, successors in office to the previous defendants, filed a motion
with the District Court seeking to modify the 1970 order
by eliminating the "no majority" requirement. The District
Court denied the motion, ruling that the "no majority"
requirement was an inflexible one to be applied anew each
school year even though subsequent changes in the racial mix
in the schools were caused by factors for which the defendants
might not be considered responsible. The Court of Appeals
affirmed that ruling, but we reversed, concluding that the District Court had exceeded its authority in enforcing the "no
majority" provision so as to require annual readjustment of
attendance zones.
Upon remand to the District Court, a hearing was scheduled on applicants' motion for dissolution of the 1970 injunction.2 Applicants represented that there was no plan at that
time to make any changes in the method of making student
assignments. Shortly thereafter, on July 1, 1977, the District
Court deleted the "no majority" provision from the injunction. The hearing was completed and the matter submitted
2

The cause was initially remanded to the Court of Appeals which in

turn merely remanded it to the District Court, noting that "all determinations as to modifications required under [Spangler] . . . should initially
be made by the district court." Spangler v. Pasadena City Board of
Education, 549 F. 2d 733 (CA9 1977).
3The District Court entered the following order:
"IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, ADJUDGED AND DECREED: The no
majority of any minority provision contained in this Court's judgment of

1306

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion in Chambers

435 U. S.

to the District Court for resolution. By late January 1978,
when no further action had been taken by the District Court,
however, applicants withdrew their representation that no
changes would be made in the method of student assignments
and on February 28, 1978, the District Court entered the following oral order:
"[P]ending decision of this Court on the submitted
matters before the Court or until further order of the
Court, . . . each of you are enjoined from making any
changes in the method of student assignments in the
Pasadena Unified School District that was in effect on
October 21, 1977." 1
The applicants, concerned that the District Court did not
include in the order anything expressly relating to the "no
majority" provision, sought a clarification of the order later
that same day. Applicants' counsel stated:
"We have concluded from that omission, your Honor,
that the purport of the order which was issued or the
injunction which was issued this morning to those defendants was that they are indeed enjoined to take measures
for the purpose of insuring that no school in the district
has a majority of any minority students."
The judge replied:
"That is right, Mr. McDonough.

Thete is to be no

January 23, 1970 is hereby stricken from the Pasadena Plan as required
by the Supreme Court's opinion of June 28, 1976."
4 Prior to issuance of the order the District Court had entertained pro-

posed orders to be entered against the applicants pending disposition of
the case. The United States and the student plaintiffs-intervenors submitted proposed written orders which expressly reaffirmed the District
Court's order striking the "no majority" requirement. Applicants argued
that no further order was justified, but that if an order were made it
should specifically include the provision that "Jfn]othing in this order requires defendants to take any measures for the purpose of insuring that
no school in the Pasadena Unified School District has a majority of any
minority students."

VETTERLI v. UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
1304

1307

Opinion in Chambers

change in the student assignment system that was in
force on October 21st, 1977."
Applicants, relying totally on the judge's comment that
"[t]hat is right," now contend that the District Court has
reimposed the "no majority" requirement contrary to the
dictates of our decision in Spangler, supra. If that were true,
a writ of mandamus might properly issue to execute the
Court's judgment. See Vendo Co. v. Lektro-Vend Corp., 434
U. S. 425 (1978). But I do not think the judge's statements
during the colloquy can be read as having that effect, and I
accordingly deny the application for a stay.
The District Court took steps which unequivocally lifted
the offending part of the 1970 order. See n. 3, supra. That
was done on July 1, 1977. And there is nothing in the record
before me to indicate that after that date the "no majority"
requirement was part of the method of student assignments.
On February 28 the District Court ordered applicants to
refrain from making any changes in the method of student
assignments in effect as of October 21, 1977, a date well after
the July 1 date on which the "no majority" requirement was
eliminated from the 1970 injunction. On its face this order
certainly cannot be read as reimposing the "no majority"
requirement.
Even as a matter of language, one would have to strain to
read the colloquy occurring later that same day as indicating
that the judge thought his order had reimposed the "no
majority" provision. Busy judges and busy lawyers do not
invariably speak with mathematical precision in such colloquies. The obligations imposed by an injunction must be clear
and well defined. A judge should not be thought, by a cryptic
and offhanded remark in a later proceeding, to have reimposed an obligation which he specifically and unequivocally
eliminated just a few months before pursuant to the direction
of this Court and to which he made absolutely no reference in
the original order. I will not indulge the presumption that

OCTOBR TERM, 1977
Opinion in Chambers

435 U. S.

the District Court acted contrary to these well-settled principles in the absence of a clear indication that it in fact did.
Since the District Court's order of February 28 does not
conflict with our decision in Spangler by placing applicants
under any obligation to annually reassign students so that
there is no school "with a majority of any minority students,"
I do not think five Members of this Court will vote to grant a
writ of mandamus. Thus, I see no reason to issue the
requested stay.
Of course, if at some future time the District Court actually
reimposes the "no majority" requirement in contravention of
our decision in Spangler or otherwise requires applicants to
comply with such a provision, applicants may again petition
this Court or the Court of Appeals for relief. At this time
such relief appears unwarranted, however, because applicants
do not appear to be under any such obligation.

