ROBERTS, Treasurer, v. UNITED STATES.
Counsel for Roberts.

our rule would have been fully complied with by the certificate of that clerk to one of the printed copies which he had
so prepared, indexed, supervised and distributed, and which
he, therefore, knew was an accurate transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court; and, as it is shown, and is not denied,
that the printed copies furnished us are in fact correct copies
of the Circuit Court record, we have treated them as if that
record had been duly certified to us by the clerk of the Circuit
Court of Appeals.
The applications for certiorari are
Denied.

ROBERTS, Treasurer, v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO TE

COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 56. Argued December 15,18,1899. -Decded February 5,1900.
A judgment of the Court of Claims, under the act of June 16, 1880, c. 243,
in favor of the claimant, against the District of Columbia, upoh a certificate of. the board of audit of the District, in an action commenced in
1880, is not affected by the provision in the act of July 5, 1884, c. 227,
forbidding the payment of such certificates, not presented for payment
within one year from the date of the Passage of the latter act.
The evident purpose of the act of August 13, 1894, c. 279, was to give the
balance of interest upon the certificates between 3.65 and 6 per cent to
the original holders of the certificates, or their assignees, the interest
upon which had been paid only at the former rate.
The right of- the relator as assignee having been admitted, it is no longer
open to inquiry.
If a public ofilcer of the United States refuses to perform a mere ministerial
duty, imposed upon him by law, mandamus will lie to compel him to do
his duty.
In this case, as the duty of the Treasurer of the United States tor pay the
money in question was ministerial in its nature, and should have been
performed by him on demand; mandamus was the proper remedy for
failure to do so.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr..-7?oert A. Howard for Roberts.
was on his brief.

Mr. Solicitor General

OCTOBER TERAM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

.7k&. B. E. "Vdentinefor the United States.
MR. JUSTIE PE KHAM delivered the opinion of the court.

A writ of certiorari was issued in this case to the Court of
Appeals of the District of Columbia, for the purpose of reviewing a judgment of that court affirming a judgment of the
Supreme Court of the District, which awarded to the relator,
Marie A. Valentine, a writ of mandamus to compel the petitioner, who is the Treasurer of the United States, to pay her,
as assignee, a residue of 2.35 per cent interest upon certain
certificates issued by the board of audit of the District of
Columbia pursuant to the provisions of section 6 of the act
approved June 20, 1874, entitled "An act for the government
of the District of Columbia, and for other purposes." 18 Stat.
116, 118, c. 337.
The facts upon which the controversy arises are uncontradicted, and are as follows: One Charles E. Evans who, previous to 1874, had done a large amount of work for the District
in laying concrete and brick, pavements in the city of Washington, duly presented his claims on that account to the board
of audit constituted under the act above mentioned, which
board, after an examination of such claims, executed, on the
first ol August, 18%t, the two certificates which form the basis
of the claim of the relator, each certificate being dated on that
day,one of which acknowledged an indebtedness to him on
the part of the District of Columbia of $19,616.25 and the
other $909.40. They were not, however, delivered to Evans,
because at the time they were made a claim had been set up
by the authorities of the District that Evans was liable for the
expense of rep:irs which were needed on pavements laid by
him, (which claim, however, as it afterwards appeared, was
not well founded,) and the board of audit, instead of delivering the certificates to Evans, withheld them from him, and at
or about their date delivered them to the Commissioners of
the District, who held them as collateral security for the
payment of any liability of Evans for the repairs mentioned.
They remained from' August, 1874, until June 9, 1890. in a

ROBERTS, Treasurer, v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

tin box in the office of the Treasurer of the Unit&d States,
who held it and its contents subject to the control of the Commissioners of the District.
By reason of this refusal to deliver the certificates and their
retention in the hands of the Treasurer, Evans was unable to
avail himself of the right given by the act of 1874 to exchange
such certificates for the 3.65 bonds mentioned in that act, and
for the same reason he was unable to avail himself of the provisions of section 9 of the act approvedJune 16, 1880, 21 Stat.
284, c. 243, providing for the redemption of the certificates
created by the act of 1874. An action was therefore commenced in December, 1880, in the Court of Claims by the
assignee of Evans to~recover judgment against the District of
Columbia upon those certificates, under the provisions of saction 1 of the above act of 1880. In this action, in addition to
the claims upon the certificates already mentioned, Fisher, the
assignee, included a large amount of other claims against the
District, which had also been assigned to him by Evans.
In 1884:, Congress passed an act, approved July 5, 1884,
c. 227, 23 Stat. 123, 131, providing that no payment should be
made of any certificate issued under the act of 1874 that should
not be presented for payment within one year from the date
of the approval of the act of 1884.
After its commencement, (the certificates still remaining in
the custody of the Treasurer,) the action above mentioned continued pending until home time during the December term,
1889, of the Court of Claims, when the executors of the will
of Fisher, the assignee, were substituted as parties plaintiff in,
the action upon the suggestion of the death of Fisher having
been duly made upon the record, and the action was revived
in the names of the executors of Fisher's will.
In June, 1890, a settlement of that action was agreed upon,
by the terms of which the two certificates were to be delivered
to the plaintiffs, and the 6ther matters in dispute therein were
to be withdrawn from the court by the discontinuance of the
action. Pursuant to that settlement and on June 9, 1890,
under the advice of the Assistant Attorney General in charge
of the case, the certificates were delivered to the plaintiff's

OCTOBER TERIM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

attorney, who thereupon presented them'to the Treasurer and
requested him, in his capacity as ex officio commissioner of the
sinking fund of the District of Columbia, to issue in exchange
for them the 3.65 bonds authorized by the act of Congress of
1874. The Treasurer refused to redeem the certificates or to
issue bonds for the payment thereof, or in any way to pay the
same, until the parties had obtained a judgment in the Court
of Claims in the action already mentioned, which should provide for their payment. Accordingly the plaintiffs in that
actidn asked and obtained leave to amend their petition by
striking out all reference to any other causes of action than
those upon these two certificates. The amendment was consented to by the Assistant Attorney General, and oh June 12,
1890, a judgment was duly obtained in favor of plaintiffs and
against the District of Columbia for the recovery, "in the
manner provided by the act of June 16, 1880, chapter 243,"
of the sums mentioned in the certificates. The judgment roll
in the case contained the petition in which these particular
certificates were set out in full, and it showed that the judgment entered by the Court of Claims was recovered on those
certificates and on them alone. There was thus evidence on
record which showed the cause of action on which the judgment was based. On September 12, 1890, the Treasurer paid
these certificates with interest from their date, August 1, 1874,
to September 11, 1890, at 3.65 per centum, by paying the judgment entered by the Court of Claims. Subsequently to that
time the executors of Fisher, the assignee of Evans, assigned
to one Robinson all interest in the claims and demands against
the District, and Robinson subsequently assigned the same to
the relator. Thus some sixteen years after the certificates had
been duly made under the authority of the act of 1874 they
were finally redeemed, the delay having been caused by their
retention as above stated and by the refusal of the Treasurer
to deliver them to their owner.
On August 13, 1894, Congress passed an act, 2 Stat. 277,
c. 279, the first section of which reads as follows:
"That the Treasurer of the United States is hereby directed
to pay to the owners, holders or assignees of all board of audit

ROBERTS

Treasurer, v. UNITED STATES.

225

Opinion of the Court.
certificates redeemed by him under the act approved June 16,
1880, the residue of two and thirty-five hundredths per cent
per annum of unpaid legal rate interest due upon said certificates from their date up to the date of approval of said act
providing for their redemption."
The relator as assignee, by her attorney, made demand upon
the Treasurer for the payment of the balance of the interest
as provided, for in the above act, and on November 3, 1897,
the Treasurer refused such demand, and wrote the following
letter to the attorney:
"SIR: Your letter of the 27th ultimo, enclosing a petition
for the payment of interest on certain board of audit certificates, under the act of Congress approved August 13, 1894, is
received.
"You will note that the act referred to provides for additional interest to be paid only upon board of audit certificates redeemed by the 'Treasurer under the act of June 16,
1880. Neither of the certificates recited in your petition
was redeemed by the Treasurer, and they are not in his
possession.
"You state that certain judgments of the Court of Claims
were issued in lieu of these certificates. These judgments
were paid by this office in the manner prescribed by law, but
neither of them states that they were issued in lieu of or upon
debts of the District of Columbia represented by board of
audit certificates.
"The Treasurer has therefore no authority to pay the
additional interest you demand."
The foregoing facts were set forth in the petition of the
relator to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia
asking for mandamus to compel the Treasurer to make the
payment demanded.
In answer to the petition the Treasurer alleged "that the
certain board of audit certificates, so called, in the said petition
mentioned, namely, the certificates numbered 8879 and 19,429,
were not redeemed by him or any person holding the office of
VOL. C=xVxI-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Treasurer of the United States at any time, and that the only
moneys paid by any Treasurer of the United States on account
of any of the matters or things in the said petition mentioned
as having relation to the said certificates, or either of them,
were paid upon certain judgments of the Court of Claims of
the United States, as appears by the transcript from the
records of the Treasury Department of the United States,
hereto annexed and made part hereof,-and that the defendant
has no official knowledge, nor has he any official record in his
office, showing or tending to show upon what claim or claims
either of the said judgments was based."
Nothing but a transcript 5f the decree contained in the
judgment roll was annexed to the return. The relator demurred to. the return, and upon these pleadings the cause
came on for hearing before the Supreme Court, which ordered
a writ of mandamus to issue as prayed for. Upon appeal to
the Court of Appeals that court affirmed the judgment, and
the Treasurer applied for and obtained a writ of certiorari
for the purpose of procuring a review of the judgment by
this court.
Upon reading the return made by the Treasurer to the
petition for the writ it will be seen that the facts upon which
he bases his defence are that he did not redeem the certificates in question, and that the only moneys paid by any
Treasurer of the United States were paid on this judgment of
the Court of Claims already mentioned, and that it did not
appear in any official record in his office upon what claim or
claims the judgment of the Court of Claims was based.
The first question which arises, therefore, on this record is
whether the Treasurer did redeem these certificates within
the meaning of the act of 1894. The act of 1884 did not
prohibit their- redemption, for they were in suit under the
provisions of section I of the act of 1880, long before the
passage of the act of 1884, and provision was made in the act
of 1880 for the payments of the judgments rendered by the
Court of Claims upon presentation to the Secretary of the
Treasury of a certified copy of such judgments. That they
might be founded upon certificates was immaterial, for it

ROBERTS, Treasurer, v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

cannot be supposed that Congress by the act of 1884 meant
to prohibit the payment of .certificates which were in suit
under the act of 1880, and upon which judgment might thereafter be rendered by the Court of Claims. Full effect can begiven to the act of 1884 by confining it to the prohibition of
payment of certificates which might, after the year, be presented in that form for payment, leaving the provisions for
payment on-suit brought under the act of 1880 in full force.
Taking this case as made by the record, we find that it is
not disputed that the certificates were issued under the act of
1874, duly signed by the board of audit therein provided for,
and delivered (without the consent of Evans) to the authorities of the District upon their unfounded claim that they were
entitled to their possession as collateral security as already
stated. It is not disputed that an action was commenced in
the Court of Claims under the act of 1880 to recover against
the District of Columbia upon the certificates, as well as upon
other claims against the District. It is not disputed that upon
a compromise made, all other causes of action were stricken
from the petition,, that the petition as amended contained a
full description of the certificates, and an allegation that they
were issued by the board of audit under the act, of 1874, and
that judgment was recovered upon such certificates, and upon
them only, and for their payment pursuant to the act of 1874,
and that pursuant to that judgment the Treasurer paid the
amount thereof, together with interest on the certificates from
the date of their issue in 1874 to September 11, 1890, the day
before their paymefit.
Upon these facts we have no doubt that the certificates were
redeemed within the meaning -of the act of 1894. At the time
of the judgment in the Court of Claims they were in the hands
of the plaintiff in the action mentioned and were valid instruments in his hands, and his sole cause of action was based upon
them, and the judgment entered by the Court of'Claims necessarily declared their validity and the right of plaintiff to
have the same' raid as stated in the juagment. When the
Treasurer subsequently paid that judgment, did he not therein
and thereby redeem these certificates? If the certificates

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

themselves had been presented to the Treasurer and he had
paid them, they would then, of course, have been redeemed.
Were they any the less redeemed because an action had been
brought upon them and the court had declared their validity
and directed their payment, by a judgment duly entered to
that effect, which judgment was subsequently paid by the
Treasurer? Such payment, it seems to us, was a redemption
of the certificates within the meaning of the act.
The evident purpose of the act of 1894 was to give the balance of interest between 3.65 and 6 per cent to those persons,
or their assignees, to whom certificates had been given and
the interest upon which had been paid only at the former rate.
In all such cases where the certificates bad been redeemed by
the Treasurer, the additional interest was to be paid, and we
cannot doubt that under this act the certificates were redeemed
when paid by the Treasurer by virtue of the judgment which
had been recovered on them and which was directed to be
paid pursuant to the act of 1874. The act of 1894 did not
limit the payment to those who had succeeded in exchanging
their certificates for bonds bearing interest at the rate of 3.65
per cent. It was through no fault of the holders of these particular certificates that they had not been exchanged for such
bonds, but the exchange had not been effected because the
authorities of the District improperly retained custody of them,
and refused to deliver them to their rightful owner.
The act of 1894 plainly relates to and speaks of the certificates which had been redeemed under the act of 1880, and
these certificates had been so redeemed.
The further objection made by the Treasurer, that he had
in his office no official record showing or tending to show upon
what claim or claims the judgment of the Court of Claims was
based, is, under the admitted facts in this case, wholly immaterial
The judgment roll in the action is of record in the Court of
Claims, and that roll showed precisely and in detail that the
judgment was recovered upon those specific certificates, and-upon nothing else, and when the Treasurer pays such judgment
there Is thus record evidence that he has paid the certificates

ROBERTS, Treasurer, v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

mentioned in the judgment roll, upon which certificates the
judgment itself was recovered.
This is all the defence upon the facts that is made to the
issuing of the writ so far as appears by the return made by
the Treasurer to the application for mandamus, but upon the
argument in this court the further objection was taken that
the relator was not such an assignee as was within the contemplation of the act of 1894, because, as was stated, she was
not such assignee at the tithe of the payment of the certificates made by the Treasurer.
It is somewhat late to raise this defence, but we think there
is.nothing in the objection. These Certificates had been paid
at the rate of interest of 8.65 only, and the act of 1894
intended to give to those people who were their original
owners, or who had become assignees of such owners, although
subsequent to the payment of the certificates, the right to
recover this additional interest. But if the act were construed as intending to provide for the payment of interest to
those persons who were the owners of .the certificates at the
time when they were redeemed, it could not with any force
be argued that such persons might not assign their claim to
the balance of the interest provided for in the act of 1894
after the passage of that act. Hence if the defendant had
set up in his return any such objection, it might have been
obviated by proof that the owners of the certificates when
redeemed had after the passage of the act of 1894 assigned
their right to the interest mentioned therein to the relator.
The Treasurer made no such objection to payment, either in
his letter to the attorney for the relator before this proceeding was commenced, or in his return herein. The right of
relator, as assignee, has been admitted, and the Treasurer
placed his objections on grounds altogether different.
The remaining and most important objection is that this is
not a case in which the writ of mandamus can properly.be
issued to one of the executive officers of the government.
The law relating to mandamus against a public officer is
well settled in the abstract, the only doubt which arises being
whether the facts regarding any particular case bring it within

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the law which permits the writ to issue where a mere-ministerial duty is imposed upon an executive officer, which duty
he is bound to perform without any further question. If he
refuse under such circumstances, mandamus will lie to compel him to perform his duty. This is the principle upheld by
this court in United States v. Black, 128 U. S. 40, and upon
the authority of that case the defendant claims that no mandamus can be issued against him.
The writ was refused in the Black case, because, as the
court held, the decision which was demanded from the Commissioner of Pensions required of him, in the performance
of his regular duties as commissioner, the examination of several acts of Congress, their construction and the effect which
the latter acts had upon the former, all of which required
the exercise of judgment to sugh an extent as to take his decision out of the category of a mere ministerial act. A decision
upon such facts, the court said, would not be controlled by
mandamus. The circumstances under which a party hag the
right to the writ are examined in the course of the opinion,
which was delivered by Mr. Justice Bradley, and many cases
upon the subject are therein cited, and the result of the examination was as just stated.
In this case the facts are quite different. There is but one
act of Congress to be examined, and it is specially directed to
the Treasurer. We think its construction is quite plain and
unmistakable. It directs the Treasurer to pay the interest'on
the certificates which had been redeemed by him, and the
only question for him to determine was whether these certificates had been redeemed within that meaning of that act.
That they were, we have already attempted to show, and the
duty of the Treasurer seems to us to be at once plain, imperative, and entirely ministerial, and he should have paid the
interest as directed in the statute.
This case comes within the exception stated in the Black
case, that where a special statute imposes a mere ministerial
duty upon an executive officer, which he neglects or refusesto perform, then mandamus lies to compel its performance;
but the court will not interfere with the executive officers of

ROBERTS, Treasurer, v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the Government in the exercise of their ordinary official duties,
even when those duties require an interpretation of the law,
the court having no appellate power for that purpose. On
this last ground the court denied the writ..
Unless the writ of mandamus is to become practically valuelegs, and is to be refused even where a public officer is commanded to do a particular act by virtue of a particular statute,
this writ should be granted. Every statute to some extent
requires construction by the public officer whose duties. may
be defined therein. Such officer hnust read the law, and be
must therefore, in a certain sense, construe it, in order to form
a judgment from its language what duty he is directed by the
statute to perform. But that does not necessarily and in all
cases make the duty of the officer anything other than a
purely ministerial one. If the law direct him to perform an
act in regard to which no discretion is committed to him, and
which, upon the facts existing, he is bound to perform, then
that act is ministerial, although depending upon a statute
which requires, in some degree, a construction of its language
by the officer. Unless this be so, the value of this writ is
very greatly impaired. Every executive officer whose duty is
plainly devolved upon him by statute might refuse to perform
it, and when his refusal is brought before the court he might
successfully plead that the performance of the duty involved
the construction of a statute by him, and therefore it was not
ministerial, and the court would on that account be powerless
to give relief. Such a limitation of the powers of the court,
we think, would be most unfortunate, as it would relieve from
judicial supervision all executive officers in the performance
of their duties, whenever they should plead that the duty
required of them arose upon the construction of a statute, no
matter how plain its language, nor how plainly they violated
their duty in refusing to perform the act required.
In this case we think the proper construction of the statute
was clear, and the duty of the Treasurer to pay the money to
the relator was ministerial in its nature, and should have been
performed by him upon demand. The judgment of the Court
of Appeals must be
Afrmed.

