OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the, Case.

when conjoined with the range of modern ordnance, the power
of blockade defenders. We recently had occasion to consider
their power, and decide that a single modern cruiser might
make a blockade effective. The Olinde Rodriguez, 174 U. S.
510.
The question in this case, then, is as to the. adequacy of the
proof, and we do not think it attains that degree which affords
a reasonable assurance of the justice of the sentence of forprobable
feiture. It raises doubts and suspicions -makes
cause for the capture of the ship and justification of her
captors, but not forfeiture. The Olinde Rodriguez, supra.
It follows, therefore, that the decree of the District Court
must be reversed and the cause remanded, with directions
to enter a decree restoringthe veisel and cargo, or if they
have been sold, the _roceeds of the sale, but without damages or costs, and it is so ordered.

CLARK v. KANSAS CITY.ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 268. Argued November 18, 1899. -Deeded

January 15, 1900.

The provision in section 1 of chapter 74 of the Laws of Kansas of 1891,
authorizing certain first-class cities to take in described tracts of land in
territory adjoining or'touching the city limits and make them a part of
the city by ordinance, and providing that "nothing in this act shall be
taken or held to apply to any tract or tracts of land used for agricultural
purposes, when the same is not owned by any railroad or other corporation" does not conflict with any provision of the Constitution of the
United States, when exercised by such a city to take in lands belonging
to a railroad company which are not used for agricultural purposes, but
are occupied by the.company for railroad purposes.

TmIs case was here once before on writ of error to review a
judgment of the Supreme Court of Kansas reversing a judgmnent of the isi yrius court, sustaining a demurrer to the
petition of plaintiffs. Clark v. Kansas City, 172 U. S. 334.

CLARK, v. KASAS CITY.
Statement of the Case.

The writ was dismissed on the ground that the judgment
was not final. On the return of the case to the Supreme
Court of the State such proceedings were had there and by
its direction in the trial court that a final judgment was bntered, denying the relief prayed for, which. judgment the
Supreme Court affirmed, and the. case was then brought
here.
The question presented is the constitutionality pf a statute
of the State and the validity of an ordinance passed by Kansas City under the statute. Kansas Laws of 1891, 133, c. 74;
act of March 10, 1891. The statute is as follows:
" Cities of the First Class.
"An act relating to certain cities of the first class, and the
adding thereto certain adjoining territory.
"Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Jansa8:

SEo. 1. That whenever any territory adjoining oi touching
the city limits of any city of the first class having a population of 30,000 inhabitants or more shall be subdivided into

lots and blocks, or whenever any unplatted tract of land shall
lie upon or mainly within any such city, or is so situated as
to be bounded on three fourths of its boundary line by platted
territory of or adjacent to such city, or by the boundary line
of such city, or by both, the same may be added to and made
a part of the city by ordinance, duly passed; whicl ordinance
shall describe the territory by giving the name of the subdivision or addition as platted, and by giving the metes and
bounds of suclh linplatted tract, or by giving the metes and
bounds of each tract and plat so taken in separately, or of the
entire tract or tracts so taken in, with the section, town, rknge
and county in which the same is located, without further proceedings; but nothing in this act shall be taken or held to
ap)ply to any tract. or ,tracts of land used for agricultural
p toposes when the same is not owned by any railroador. other
corporation."

The following is the ordinance:

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

"Ordinance No. 2163.
"An ordinance adding certain lands therein described, known
as the Union Pacific lands, to and making the same a part
of the city of Kansas City, Kansas.
" Whereas, A certain unplatted territory belonging to the
Union Pacific Railroad Company lies upon and mainly within
the city of Kan~as City, Kansas, and is so situated as to. be
bounded on three-fourths (1) its boundary line by platted
territory of, and adjoining to said city; which said railroad
land, by virtue of its location, enjoys the benefits of said city
without sharing its burdens: Now, therefore,
".Be it ordained by the -Mayor and Councilmen of the City
of Ransas City, Jfansas: SEC. 1. That the following described
territory, to wit: . . . Said tracts being contiguous and
coDtaining in the aggregate one hundred and seventy-two (172)
acres, be and hereby is added to and made a part of the city
of -Kansas City, Kansas.
"SEc. 2. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force
from and after its passage and publication in the Kansas City
Gazette."
After passage of the ordinance the city levied taxes on the
lands, and this suit was brought to restrain their collection.
The petition presented the facts, and contained the following
allegations:
"Nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty or
property without due process of law, nor deny to any person
within its jurisdiction equal protection of the laws.
"And plaintiffs are advised and so charge the fact to be
that in so far as said statute attempts to authorize the taking
of said rands within the limits of Kansas City, Kansas, as
attempted in said ordinance, Exhibit 'A,' it is unconstitutional, null and void, in this, to wit:
"That by, reason of that portion of the act which excepts
-from its operation any tract or tracts of land used for agricultural purposes, when the same is not owned by any rail.road -or other corporation, it is in violation of that part of the
Fourteenth .Amendment to the Constitution of the United

CLARK v. KANSAS CIT7..
Opinion of the Court-.

States, which reads as follows: ' Nor shall any Stute" depriv.e.
any person of life, liberty or property without due process of
law, nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction equal piotection of the laws.'
"Plaintiffs further allege upon information and belief that
there was not at the time of the passage of said chapter 74 of
the Session Laws of Kansas for 1891 any city of thirty thousand (30,000) inhabitants o more in the State of Kansas
where the conditions referred- to.in the first part of the said
act permitting the adding of additional territory to a city by
the passage of an ordinance merely existed; and plaintiffs are
advised, aid so charge the fact to be, that said act -of the
legislature, while purgorting to be & general act, was intended
.solely to apply to the lands attempted to be taken within the
limits of said Kansas City, Kansas, by 'said ordinance,
'Exhibit A."'
The property over which the extension was made was
actually used in part for railroad pnrposes, and consisted of
road bed and right-of way, main and side tracks, buildings
and improvements. The portions nQt actually used for railroad purposes, the petition alleged, were vacant and unoccupied lands, which were held dnd possessed by the railroad
company for railroad purposes.
Y.. .Y E. Loomrs for plaintiffs in error. Mr. VinsZow 8.
Pierce'and.Xr.A. L. Williams were on his brief.
Mrb. T. A. Pollock and -. r. F A. Hwtohing8 for defendants
inerror.
31R. JUSTIcE MOKEN.NA, after making the above statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The statute excepts from its operation lands used for agricultural purposes if owned by individuals. It includes such
lands if owned by corporations. It is hence contended by
plaintiff in error. that the statute discriminates between the
owners of agricultural lands, and between them again and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

owners of all other lands, and infringes thereby the provisions
of the Constitution of the United States which guarantees to
all persons the equal protection of the laws.
Of the discrimination between owners of agricultural lands
the Supreme Court of Kansas said the defendants in error
[plaintiffs here] cannot be heard to complain. "Their lands
are not agricultural lands; at least, they do not allege them
to be such lands, but, on the contrary, allege that parts of
them are used for railroad purposes, and that the remaining
portions are vacant and unoccupied lands, held and possessed
for railroad purposes. Owning no agricultural ]and, the defendants in error are not affected by the discrimination which
the statute makes between the different classes of owners of
such kind of land, and they cannot therefore be heard to complain on that score. 'A court will not listen to an objection
made to the constitutionality of an act by a party whose
rights it does not affect and who has therefore no interest in
defeating it.' Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 6th ed.,
196." .uxiervisors v. Stanley, 105 U. S. 305.
We concur in this view, and it would be difficult to add
anything to its expression. The discrimination occurs only
in a particular use of the lands, and it would seem obvious
that such use must be shown to make a cause of action -a
right infringed and to be redressed. If the lands of the plaintiff belonged to an individual they would be subject to the
statute. Where, then, is the discrimination? In that, it is
61aimed, if the lands were used for agriculture, being owned
by a corporation, they would be subject to the statute, but
would not be if owned by an individual. But that is not a
discrimination immediate and actual against plaintiff in error.
It does not now, and there is nothing in the record to show
that it ever will exist. Not a law alone, but a law and Its
incidence are necessary to a justiciable right or injury; and it
therefore follows if.
plaintiff has a grievance under the stat*utewhich this court can redress, it comes from the discrimination between agricultural lands and other lands -a cause of
Action, not because the plaintiff is a corporation, but because
it is an owner of such lands, and one which it would have even
if it were an individual.

CLARK v. KANSAS CITY.

119 '

Opinion of the Court.-

The answer to that charge depends upon the power of the
State to classify objects of legislation; necessarily a broad
power, and one which this court has so many times decided
exists, and so many times has defined and illustrated the
limits upon it of the provision of *the Constitution of the
United States invoked by plaintiff in error, that farther definition would seem impossible, and any new instance of its
application not without exact or analogous example in some
decided case.
The reasoning of the cases we need not repeat. It is enough
to say that the rule of the Constitution leaves to the discretion
and wisdom of the State a wide latitude as far as interference
by this court is concerned. It is not a substitute for municipal law; it does not invest power in this court to correct the
impolicy and injustice of state laws, and the equality it prescribes is not for persons merely as such, but according to their
relations. "In some circumstances it may not tax A more
than B, but if A be of a different trade or profession than B,
it may. And it matters not of taxation if A be a different
kind of corporation than B it may subject A to a different
rule of responsibility to servants than B, .ifissouri Pac Ft
Railway v. -fMackey, 127 U. S. 205; to a different measure of
damages than B, .Minneapolis & St. Louis Railway v. Beckwith, 129 U. S. 26; and it permits special legislation in all its
varieties. .fissouri Pacifi Railway v. JMackey, 127 U. S.
205; Minneapolis & St. Louis Railway v. Rerick, 127 U. S.
210; Duncan v. Missouri, 152 U. S. 377." 7fagoun v. Il1inois Trust & Savings Bank, 170 U. S. 283.
. -And these principles have been affirmed in later cases, and
a classification based on the difference between fire insurance
and other insurance has been sustained; also on a difference
between railroad and other corporations and of persons.
Orient Insurance Co. v. Daggs, 172 U. S. 557 ; Tullis v. Lake
Erie & Western Railroad, 175 U. S. 348, decided at the
present term.
In Atchison, Topeka &c. Railroad v. .Matthews, 174 U. S.
96, the-majority of the court decided that in consequence of
the great peril and possibility of fires being communicated by

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the locomotives of railroad corporations, it was in the power
of the State of Kansas to impose on them, in a suit successful
against them, an attorney's fee, and not impose it en an unsuccessful plaintiff. It was said by Mr. Justice Brewer, after a
review of the cases that "It is the essence of a classification that upon the class are
cast duties and burdens differeit from those resting upon the
general public. Thus, when the legislature imposes on railroad corporations a double liability for stock killed by passing
trains, it says, in effect, that if suit be brought against a railroad company for stock killed by one of its trains it must enter
into the courts under conditions different from those resting
on ordinary suitors. If it is beaten in tfie suit it must pay not
only the damage which it has done, but twice that amount.
If it succeeds it recovers nothing. On the other hand, if it
should sue an individual for destruction of its live stock it
could under no circumstances recover any more than the value
of that stock. So that it may be said in matter of liability,
in case of litigation, it is not placed on an equality with other
corporations and individuals; yet this c6urt has unanimously
said that this differentiation of liability, this ipequality of
right in the courts, is of no significance upon the question of
constitutionality. Indeed, the very idea of classification is
that of inequality, so that it goes without saying that the fact
of inequality in no manner determines the matter of constitutionality." 114 U. S. 106.
In the case at bar the distinction is between tracts of agricultural lands in a certain relation to cities and lands used for
other purposes in such relation.
We. think the distinction is justified by the principle of the
cases we have cited. That principle leaves to the State the
adaptation of its laws to its conditions. The growth 6f cities
is inevitable, and in providing for their expansion it may be
the judgment-of an agricultural State that they should find a
limit in the lands -actually used for agriculture. Such use it
could be taken for granted would be only tefnporary. Other
uses, certainly those to which the plaintiff puts its lands, can
receive all the benefits of the growth of a city and not be

RAE v. HOMESTEAD LOAN & GUARANITTY CO.
Statement of the Case.

moved to submit to the burdens. Besides, such uses or manufacturing uses adjacent to a city may, for its order and health,
need control. Affecting it differently from what farming
uses do may justify if not require their inclusion within the
municipal jurisdiction.
We think, therefore, that within the latitude which local
government must be allowed the distinction is not arbitrary,
and infringes no provision of the Constitution of the United
.Tudgment afflrmed.
States.

RAE

v. HOMESTEAD

LOAN

AN])

GUARANTY

COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 261. Submitted December 18, 1899.-Decided January 22,1900.
The plaintiff in error executed and delivered to the defendant in error a
bond for $4900 (with a mortgage of real estate in Illinois to secure it),
payable "ii gold coin of the United States of America of the present
standard weight and fineness." Default being made, the defendant in
error brought suit to foreclose the mortgage, praying judgment according
to the bond and mortgage. The plaintiff in error demurred, alleging that
the matters and things set out in the bill were contrary to public policy
and void, because it was not lawful for the parties to make any money
but gold and silver a money tender in payment of the debt, and for other
reasons get forth in the statement of the case, below. This was overruled, and, as no further answer was made, the trial court held that the
debt and interest, etc., were due amounting to the sum of $5350.76 and
decreed that if the sum due was not paid within five days, the mortgaged real estate should be sold. This decree was sustained by the
Appellate Court, whose judgment was sustained by the Supreme Court
of the State. Held, that the state Circuit Court, having simply held
plaintiffs in error to respond in lawful money, and entered its decree
accordingly, and the Supreme Court having decided that plaintiffs in
error could not complain of that decree, because not prejudiced thereby,
this was not a decision against any right secured by the Constitution or
laws of the United States specially set up or claimed by plaintiffs in error
in those courts.

THE Homestead Loan and Guaranty Company filed its bill
in chancery, in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois,

f

