WILCOX v. EASTERN OREGON LAND COMPANY. 61
Opinion of the Court.

of the Secretary of the Interior to receive other lands. The
only effect therefore of the joint resolution, as between th
Northern Pacific Railroad Company and ihe Oregon Company, was to confer upon the former company the right "to
receive other lands in lieu of those appropriated by the latter
company under the authority of the act of 1866.
Passing by as unnecessary to be determined other questions
discussed by counsel, we adjudge that the Circuit Court erred
in cancelling the patents referred to in the bill, and that the.
reversal by the Circuit Court of Appeals of the decree of the
Circuit Court and the remanding of the cause with directions
to dismiss the bill was right.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is

Ajlrmed.

Mi. JusTicE MKOENNA did not participate in the decision of
this case.

WILCOX v. EASTERN OREGON LAND COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM VIE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 23. Submitted November 15, 1897. -Decided

January 8,1900.

The judgment in this case affirmed upon the authority of United States v.
Oregon and CaliforniaRailroad Cornpuny.

THE facts are stated in the opinion. The case was submitted
November 15, 1897, and was, on the 29th of the same month,
postponed until The United States v. Oregon &f California
Railroad Co., ante, 28, should be heard.

.A'. John . Geavin for appellant.
.Ar. James K

Zelly for appellees.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAx delivered the opinion of the court.
This case depends in part upon the construction of the act
of Congress of July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 365, c. 217, in aid of the

17&0
f176 59
*176 59

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court..

construction of the Northern Pacific Railroad. The provisions
of that act, so far as they are material to the present controversy, are fully set forth in the opinion in United State8 v.
Oregon & Cal'orniaRailroad Company, just decided.
By an act of February 25, 1867, Congress, in aid of the construction of a military wagon road in Oregon from Dalles City.
on the Columbia River, by way of Camp Watson, Canyon
City and Mormon or Humboldt Basin, to a point on Snake
River opposite Fort Boise in Idaho Territory, granted to the
State of Oregon "alternate sections of public lands designated by odd numbers to the extent of three sections in width
any and
on each side of said road: Provided, That . .
all lands heretofore reserved to the United States or otherwise
appropriated by act of Congress or other competent authority,
be and the same are hereby reserved from the operation of this
act, except so far as it may be necessary to locate the route
of said.road through the same, in which case the right of way
to the width of one hundred feet is granted: And provided
further, That the grant hereby made shall not embrace any
mineral lands of the United States." 14 Stat. 409, c. 77.
Other sections of that act are as follows: "§ 2. That the
lands hereby granted to said State shall be disposed of by the
legislature thereof for the purpose aforesaid, and for .noother;
and the said road shall be and remain a public highway for
the use of the Government of the United States, free from
tolls or other charges upon transportation of any property,
troops or mails of the United States." "§ 4. That the State
the constrution
of Oregon is authorized to locate and use in.
of said road an additional amount of public lands, not previously reserved to the United States nor otherwise disposed of,
and not exceeding ten miles in distance from it, equal to the
amount reserved from the operation of this act in the first
section of the same, to be selected in alternate odd sections as
provided in section first of this act. § 5.- That. lands hereby
granted t6 said State shall be disposed of only in the following manner, that is- to say, when the governor of said State
shall certify to the Secretary of the Interior that ten continuous miles of said road are completed,, then a; quantity of the

WILCOX v. EASTERN OREGON LAND COM ANY.

53

Opinion of the Court.

land hereby granted, not to exceed thirty sections, may be
sold, and so on from time to time until said road shall be completed; and if said road is not completed within five years, no
further sales shall be made, and the lands remaining unsold
shall revert to the United States. § 6. That the United
States surveyor general for the district of Oregon shall cause
said lands so granted to be surveyed at the earliest practicable period after said State stallU have enacted the necessary
legislation to carry this act into effect."
Subsequently, by an act approved October 20, 1868, the
State of Oregon granted to the Dalles Military Road Company
all the lands, right of way, rights, privileges and immunities
granted or pledged by the above act of February 25, 1867, "for
the purpose of aiding said company in constructing the road
mentioned and described in said act of Congress upon the conditions and limitations therein prescribed." The State also,
by the same act, granted and pledged to that company ".all
moneys, lands, rights, privileges and immunities which may
be hereafter granted to this State to aid in the construction
of such road for the purposes and upon the conditions mentioned in said act of Congress, or which may be mentioned in
any further grants of money or lands to aid in constructing
-said road," and authorized it to locate the lands mentioned in
the fourth section of the act of Congress, subject to the ap"
proval of the Governor. Sess. Laws 1868, p. 3.
The material facts out of w.hich the present suit arises are
alleged in the bill, and are substantially admitted in the
answer. They are as follows:
Prior to June 23, 1869, the Dalles.Military Road Company
had duly surveyed and definitely located its line of road
between the points designated by Congress and the State;
had fully constructed and completed its road, and had filed
in the office of the governor a plat or map upon which was
traced and shown the definite location of the road from
Dallas City to its terminus on Snake River, as well as the
limits of the place and indemnity lands embraced by the act
of Congress.
On the 23d day of June, 1869, the Governor certified that

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court:

such plat or map had been duly filed in his offied, and that it
showed the route upon. which the road was constructed in.
accordance with the above acts of CongreSs and of the legislature of Oregon; als6, that he had made a careful examination of the road since its completion, a-nd that the same had
-been built in all respects as required by those acts and had
been accepted.
The'.above map and the certificate of the Governor were
filed by the company in the office of the Secretary of the
Interior, and on December 18, 1869, the Commissioner of
the General Land Office, by order of the Secretary, withdrew
from sale in favor of the company the odd-numbered sections
within three miles from each side of the wagon road as
delineated and shown on the maps so filed. "
By an act of Congress approved June 18, 1874, it was
provided that "in all cases when the roads in aid of the construction of which said lands were granted are shown by the
ceftificate of the Governor of the State 6i Orgeon, as in siidacts provided, to have been constructed and complet.ed,"
pateits for said lands shall issue in due form' to the State
of Oregon as fast as the same shall,'under said grants,- be'
selected and .certified, unless the State of Oregon shal' by
public art have transferred its interests in said lands to any
corporation or corporations, in which case the -patents shall
issue from the General I.nd Office to such corporation or
corporations upon their payment of the necessary expenses
thereof: -Provided,That this shall not be construed to revive
any. land grant already expired nor to create any new rights
of any kind except to provide for issuing patents for lands to
which the State is already entitled." 18 Stat. 80, c. 305.
On the 31st day of May, 1876, Edward Martin, in good faith
and for a valuable consideration, $125,000, purchased from the,
Military Road Company all the lands embraced in the grant
to it, except such as it had previously sold, and received a conveyance thereof. Bad faith is not imputed to Martin, and it
is only Qlaimed that when he purchased those lands he was
chargeable with constructive notice of the acts of Congress,
and that no'title could pass to the Militar Road Company

WILCOX v. EASTERIN OREGON LAND COMPANY

55

Opinion of the Court.

consistently .with the above act of July 2, 1864, granting
lands to tlie Northern Pacific Railroad Company.
By different*mesne conveyances, beginning with a deed from
Edward Martin dated January, 31, 1877, and ending with a
date August- 11, 1884, the Eastern Oregon
conveyance titof
Lan d Company', a California corporation, became the owner
if the original sale by the Military Road Company passed
any title -of all the lands purchased by Martin in 1876.
Among the lands in place that had been selected by the
Military Road Company were the northeast quarter and the
southeast quarter of section fifteen in township five south of
range seventeen east of the Willamette meridian, which was
situated in Sherman County, and within the limits of the grant
of land in place to the State by the above act of February 25,
1867. That particular body of land was on the south side of
the line of "general route" of the Northern Pacific Railroad
as delineated on a map filed by that company on the 13th day
of -August, 1870, and more than twenty and less than forty
miles from that line. There never was any definite location of
the line of that road opposite this land.
The above tract of land was opened for settlement and sale
by the Secretary of the Interior-that officer, the bill alleged,
being of opinion that it was excepted from the grant to the
State of Oregon in the act of February 25, 1867, and was
embraced by the act of July 2, 1864, and by the map of general route filed by the Northern Pacific Railroad Company on
the 13th day of August, 1870. In opening this land to settlement and sale the Secretary proceeded, as he supposed, by
authority of the forfeiture act of September 29, 1890, by
which the United States resumed title to and restored to the
public domain all lands theretofore granted in aid of the construction of railroads and which were opposite to and coterminous with the portion of the railroad not then completed
and in operation, for the construction or benefit of which such
lands were granted. 26 Stat. 496, c..1040.
Thereupon John D. Wilcox settled upon the particular land
above described, and made application to purchase the same
under the act of Congress of April 24, 1820, making further

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

provision for the sale of public lands. 3 Stat. 566, c. 51.
Such proceedings were thereafter had on his application that
the President on the 28th of September, 1884, issued a patent
to him for that tract. Of. the application of Wilcox for the
purchase of the land, the Eastern Oregon Land Company had
no notice, and therefore, even if its title were not good, it
could not have availed itself of the privilege given by the act
of Congress of March 3, 1887, 21 Stat. 556, c. 376, to Purchase
the land.
The present suit was brought against Wilcox by the Eastern
Oregon Land Company in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Oregon. The bill alleged that a
patent having been issued to Wilcox, the Interior Department
had no longer jurisdiction to give to it a patent as required by
the above act of June 18, 1874, until the patent to the defendant has beeii cancelled and set aside. As the patent to Wilcox was therefore a cloud upon its title, the plaintiff sought
a decree setting it aside, declaring the company to be the
owner of the land in Wilcox's possession, and ordering the
defendant to convey the land to it. The Circuit Court dismissed the bill. Upon appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals
that decree was revelfsed, and a decree ordered to be entered
in favor of the Land Company. Thereupon Wilcox appealed
to this court.
We adjudge, as in United States v. Oregon & California
Railroad Company, just decided, that the act of July 2, 1864,
relating to the construction of the Northern Pacific Railroad,
only granted lands that were not reserved, sold, granted or
otherwise appropriated,and free from pregmption or other
claim, or rights, at the time the line of that road wa. defitely
jfed and a plat thereof filed in the office of the Commissioner
of the General Land Office;- that Congress had poWer to dispose of or appropriate, in its discretion, any lands within the
exterior lines of the general route of that road by statute
passed for the benefit of another company before the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company filed a map of "definite location,"
and that such lands, if not otherwise identified at the date of
the passage of the later act than by a plat or map of "general

WILCOX v. EASTERN OREGON LAND COMfPANY.

57

Opinion of the Court.

route," were not excluded from the operation of such an act
as lands previously "reserved, sold, granted or otherwise
appropriated" by the act of 1864-.
As the lands here in dispute are embraced by the granting
claus6 of the act of February 25, 1867, giving lands to the
-State of Oregon, and are within the lines of the definite location of the Dalles Military Road as shown by its map filed in
tfie Land Department and approved by that department December 18, 1869, and as the route, of the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company was not then and was not thereafter definitely fixed opposite the lands in dispute, they were earned
and appropriated by the Military Road Company under the
act of February 25, 1867, and cannot be regarded as embraced
by the act of July 2, 1864, for the benefit of the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company, which could take under its grant
only such lands a§ had not been appropriated under the authority of Congress when its line was definitely fixed.
This conclusion is inevitable, unless it be adjudged that it
was beyond the power of Congress to appropriate for the Dalles
Military Road lands within the general route but not within
any line of definite location established by the Northern Pacific Railroad. - For the reasons stated in Un'ited States v. Oregon,& California Railroad,we cannot so adjudge.
Upon the authority of that case the decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals in this case, reversing the decree of the Circuit Court with instructions to enter a decree in favor of the
plaintiff, the Eastern Oregon Land Company, is
MR. JUSTICE MoKENNA did not participate in the decision
of this case.

