FLORIDA CENTRAL &c. RAILROAD v. BELL.

321

Statement of the Case.

FLORIDA CENTRAL AND

PENINSULAR RAIL-

ROAD COMPANY v. BELL.
FRROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
CIRCUIT.
No. 95. Argued and submitted December 22,1899. -Decided February 26, 1900.

As the plaintiffs In the Circuit Court claimed In their declaration that the
controversy Was one that turned on the construction of the laws of
the United States, and as both courts below dealt with the case on that
assumption, this court has jurisdiction to review the judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeials.
As the plaintiffs, some of whom were citizens of Florida, and some of
whom were citizens of Texas, elected to assert a joint claim to land In
Florida in dispute in this case, which was commenced before the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Florida, and
carried by appeal to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Fifth Circuit, and as they recovered a joint judgment fortheir undivided
Interests therein, and as the plaintiffs' declaration disclosed no Federal
question, the principles settled in the cases cited by the court in its opinion
apply, and compel a'dismissal of the suit for want of jurisdiction in the
Circuit Court.

iN the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Florida, William J. Bell, John W. Bell, Frank A.

Bell, citizens of the State of %xas; E. A. Bell, Matilda, P.
Feihe, all heirs of and children of Louis Bell, deceased, late of
Tillsborough County, State of Florida; and George A. Bell
and Simon Bell, heirs of and grandchildren of said Louis Bell;
and Anton Feihe, husband of said Matilda P. Feihe, brought
an action of ejectment against the Florida Central and Peninsular Railroad Company, a corporation of the State of
Florida, seeking to recover possession of about seven acres of
land in Hillsborough County, Florida, alleged to be of the
value of thirty thousand dollars, and damages in the sum of
ten thousand dollars. The 'declaration alleged that the land
in controversy was occupied by defendant as its roadbed and
right of way, and that the plaintiffs claimed title to said land
under and by virtue of a patent granted by the United States
VOL. cvxxvi-21

7

8

177 6J

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

to said Louis Bell and his heirs upon a preemption claim filed
in the local land office of the United States in 1883, and upon
appeal to the general land office, and upon and from an
appeal from the decision of the Commissioner of the general
land office to the Secretary of the Interior of the said United
States, when by the order of the said Secretary the said patent
was granted. The declaration further alleged that, in the proceedings in the land department, the defendant claimed and
contended that the plaintiffs were not, under any of the laws
of the United States, entitled to have, a patent to said land
granted to said Louis Bell and his heirs, and that the defendant, at the time of the commencement of this suit, claimed
and insisted that the plaintiffs derived no title to said land
under and by virtue of the said patent, and at the same time
claimed that under the laws of the United States, and especially under and by virtue of the first section of an act of
Congress entitled "An act granting public land in alternate
sections to the States of Florida and Alabama to aid in the
construction of .certain railroads in said States," approved
May 17, 1856, c. 31, 11 Stat. 15, it was entitled and had the
right to locate the route of its railroad and construct the same
through the said lands, and to be in possession thereof, on the
ground, among other grounds, that the said land was a part
of that tract of land, which constituted at on.6 time a military
reservation, known as the Fort Brook iMilitary Reservation at
Tampa, State of Florida. And the plaintiffs further alleged
in their declaration that after the passage of an act of Congress entitled "An' act to provide for the disposal of abandoned and useless' military reservations," approved July 5,
1885 [1884? See 23 Stat. 103], theycontended for and claimed
title and a patent to said parcel of land, under and by virtue
of the first proviso of the second section of the last-mentioned
act of Congress, both in the offibe of the said General Land
Office and of the Secretary of the Interior, and that the
defendant appeared in both of the said offices, by its counsel,
and there claimed and contended, and at the commencement
of this suit claimed and contended, that plaintiffs were not
entitled to a patent or title to said parcel of land under the

FLORIDA CENTRAL &c. RAILROAD v. BELL.

328

Statement of the Case.

said proviso of said .act of Congress, atid, at the tiies aforesaid, claimed and insisted that it was entitled to locate the
route of its railroad through said parcel of land and to be in
possession thereof under and by virtue of the third proviso
of the aforesaid act of Congress approved May 17, 1856.
This declaration was filed on December 29, 1896, and on
January 4, 1897, the defendant appeared and filed a plea of
not guilty.
On February 4, 1897, the defendant, after notice to the
plaintiffs, asked leave to file further and special pleas, denying that the court had jurisdiction of the action, denying
that the defendant claimed title under the act of May
17, 1856, or under any other act of Congress or law of the
United States, and alleging the pendency of a prior suit in
equity between the same parties in the Circuit Court of the
United States and also the pendency in the Circuit Court of
the sixth judicial circuit of the State of Florida, of a petition
and proceeding by the defendant to condemn the land in dispute under its right of eminent domain under the laws of the
State of Florida.
Thereafter, on iebruary 18, 1897, the court made the following order:
"This cause coming on to be heard upon the motion of the
defendant for leave to file additional pleas and upon the motion
of the plaintiffs to transfer the cause to Tampa for trial, and
it having been fully heard and considered, and it appearing
that none of said.pleas constitute a good defence to said action
that could not as well be shown under the general plea of not
guilty, it is ordered that said motion to file additional pleas
be denied, and that the order to transfer the cause for trial be
granted, and that this order be without prejudice to any motion
for a stay of an enforcement possession under any judgment
which may be recovered on account of condemnation proceedings."
On February 10, 1897, the defendant moved for a continuance, which motion was on February 18 denied.
On March 5, 1897, the defehdant 'noved the. court to "dismiss the cause, for the reason that there is nothing on the face

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

of the declaration t6 show that this court has jurisdiction to
hear, and determine the said cause."
On March 11, 1897, after a consideration of this motion to
dismiss, it was ordered in open court that said motion be dismissed. On the same day, an agreement, signed by the
attorneys of the respective parties, to waive a jury and that
the cause might be tried by the court, was filed.
The cause was so proceeded in that on March 23, 1897, the
court found that the plaintiffs were entitled to possession and
have a fee simple title in and to the land in dispute, and
assessed their damages in loss of rent and profit in the sum
of nineteen hundred and fiftyzfive dollars, and entered a judgment as follows:
"It is considered -by the court that the plaintiffs herein,
William J. Bell, John W. Bell, Frank A. Bell, Eliza A. Bell
and Matilda P. Feihe, and George A. Bell and Simon Bell, do
receive and recover from the defendant, the Fl6rida Central
and Peninsular Railroad Company, the sum of nineteen hundred and fifty-five dollars, as well as for costs in this behalf;
and it is further considered that said plaint'' have a fee
simple title in and to the lands and premises described as
follows,, to wit," etc.

On April 10, 1897, the defendant moved the court for a writ
of error and a citation to review the judgment in said cause,
returnable to the Upited States Circuit Court of Appeals, and
for a supersedeas of the said judgment upon filing a bond. On
the same day the writ of error was allowed, and it was ordered
that, on the defendant filing a bond with sufficient sureties in
the sum of thirty-five hundred dollars, to be approved by the
court or by the clerk thereof, the said writ should operate as
a supersedeas of the judgment in said cause. A bond was
approved and filed accordingly.
On May 21, 1898, the Circuit Court ot Appeals affirmed the
judgment of the Circuit Court. 59 U. S. App. 189.
And thereupon, on June 2, 1898, a writ of error from this
court was allowed.
Mr. .C. Coqper for plaintiff in error.

Xr. J.A. Nlender-

FLORIDA CENTRAL &c.' RAILROAD v. BELL.

325

Opinion of the Court.

8on was on his brief.
brief for same.

-Y. William Wirt Bowe also filed a

tiffr. L. Bi8bee for defendants in error submitted on his brief.
MR. JusTa SnmAs, after making the above statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

Our first inquiry is whether this court has jurisdiction to
review the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals. The.
writ of error in this case was brought under section six of the
judiciary act of March 3, 1891. If the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals was final, under that section, this writ
of error must be dismissed. In order to maintain our jurisdiction it must appear that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
was not dependent solely upon the opposite parties being citizens of different States. Colorado Central .Xlining Co. v.
Tuick, 150 U. S. 138; Press Pulihing Co. v. -fonroe, 164
U. S. 105.
This question must be answered upon'an inspection of the
declaration of the plaintiffs in the Circuit Court. Does it disclose that the plaintiffs invoked the jurisdiction of that court
because the parties were citizens of different States, or because
the case vas alleged to be one arising under the Constitution,
laws or treaties of the United States?
The action was in ejectment to recover possessiori of a-tract
of land in Hillsborough County, State of Florida. The plaintiffs were eight in number, three of whom were alleged to be
citizens of the State of Texas, and there was no allegation as to
the citizenship of the other five. The defendant, the Florida
Central and Peninsular Railroad Company, was alleged to be
a corporation organized and existing under the laws of Florida. Hence, upon the face of the declaration, the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court would have failed, at lMast as to five of
the plaintiffs, if that jurisdiction depended solely on the citizenship of the parties. The declaration, however, alleges that
the plaintiffs claim title to the land in dispute by virtue of a
patent granted to their ancestor by the Government of the

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

United States; that the defendant claimed title under the first
section of an act of Congress, entitled "An act granting public lands in alternate sections to the States of Florida and Alabama, to aid in the construction of certain railroads in said
States," approved May 17, 1856 ; and further, that the defendant railroad company claimed and insisted that it was entitled
to locate and maintain the route of its road through the land
in question under said act of Congress.
Accordingly, it appears that the theory of the plaintiffs, in
bringing their suit in the Circuit Court of the United States,
was that the controversy was between a patentee of the
United States and a railroa& company claiming a right to
occupy the land embraced in the patent by virtue of an act of
Congress, and was therefore a case arising under the laws of
the United States. This was the view of the judge who tried
the case in the Circuit Court, as he refused to grant the
defendant's motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction, and
this view was also taken by the Circuit Court of Appeals, as
appears in the following passage of its opinion:
"There is no effort in this case to found the jurisdiction of
the court on the diverse citizenship of the parties. There is
nothing in the record to indicate that the Judge of the Circuit
Court entertained jurisdiction of the case on that ground.
The declaration shows that in the pre~mpti6n claim by the
ancestor of the defendants in error to the land involved, the
claim was stoutly resisted by the.plaintiff in error in the different stages of the prosecution thereof and before the diffe4ent officers of the land department. It shows that under a
named act of Congress, approved May 17, 1856, the defendant
claimed the right to occupy the land in question in the manner
that it was occupying it, without accountability to the defendants in error. . . . So that, independently of the claim for
mesne profits for the time transpiring between the pregmption
entry and the issuance of the patent, it is clear that the issues
made by the declaration presented a case within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court."
As, then, the plaintiffs in the Circuit Court claimed in their
declaration that the controversy was one that turned on a con-

FLORIDA CENTRAL &c. RAILROA"D v. BELL.

827

Opinion of the Court.

struction of the laws of the United States, and as, both the
courts below dealt with the case on that assumption, it is plain
that it cannot be uccessfully contended in this court that the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals was final because
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was dependent entirely
upon the opposite parties being citizens of different States.
Nor do we find merit in a second ground urged to maintain
the motion to dismiss, namely, that the action was in ejectment ;that the defendant admitted of record that it had no
title; and that'.therefore the only question it could raise was
one of jurisdiction. An inspection of the defendant's answer
shows that, while it did disclaim title under the act of Congress, it claimed a right of possession on other- grounds, with
respect to which it had a right to be heard, if indeed the
i
Circuit Court had jurisdiction.
'We come to the case, then, as one in Which we have a right
to supervise the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
And the first question, and indeed, as we read the record, the
only one we have to meet, is whether the Circuit Court had
jurisdiction of the case. Not having, as we have seen, jurisdiction because of a controversy between citizens of different
States, did it have jurisdiction because the case was one arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States ? This
question was answered affirmatively in both courts below, and
this because, as it seemed to them, the plaintiffs' declaration
disclosed such a case.
It must be regarded as conclusively established by our decisions that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court must appear in
the plaintiffs' statement of their case.
"When the original jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the
United States is invoked upon the sole ground that the, determination of the suit depends upon- some question of Federal
nature, it must appear, at the outset, fione the declaratiofi or
bill of the party suing, that the suit is of that character; in
other words, it must appear in that class of cases, that the suit
is one of which the Circuit Court, at the time its jurisdiction is invoked, could properly take cognizance. If it does not
so appear, then the court, upon demurrer or motion,/or upon

OTOBER TERM, ,1899.
Opinion of the Court.

its own inspection of the pleadings, must dismiss the suit, just
as it would remand to the.state court a suit which the record,
at the time of removal, failed to show was within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Codrt.-. It cannot retain it in order to see
whether the defendant may not raise some question of a
Federal nature upon which the right of recovery will finally
depend; and if so retained, the want bf jurisdiction, at the
commencement of the suit, is not cured by an answer br plea
which may suggest a question of that kind." .- etcayf v.
Watertown, 128 U. S. 589; Colorado Oentral -Mining Co. v.
T,4#cA, 150 U. S. 138; Oregoh &c.'tIailway v. Skottowe, 162
U. S. 490; Hanford v. Davies, 163 U. S. 273: Pree Publishing Co. v..Monroe, 164 U. S. 105.
We do not, however, understand that thege cases are questioned by the defendants in error, but their contention is that
in the plaintiffs' declaration it did sufficiebtly appear that a
Federal question was necessarily involved,. upon the solution of
which the determination of the case depended.
The paragraph of the declaration which sets forth the plaintiffs' claim is as follows:
"The plaintiffs allege that they claim title to the said land
under and by virtue of a patent granted by the Government
of the, United States of America to*the said Louis Bell and
his heirs, upon a predmption. claim for said land under the
laws of the United States originally commenced and filed- in
the local land office of the United Stales of America at Gainesville, Florida, in 1883, and presented by the heir of the said,
Louis Bell and his heirs, the plaintiffs, in said ldnd office; and
upon appeal in the general land office of the Government and.
upon and from an appeal from the decision of the commissioner
of the general land office to the Secretary.of the Interior, of
the United States, the said heirs prosecuted'to the preemption
claim, until by the order and decision of the said Secretary the
said patent was granted."
In view of the frequent and recent decisions of-this court on
this subject, it is not necessary to argue the proposition that the
mere assertion of a title to land derived to the plaintiffs, under
and by virtue of a patent granted by the United States, pre-

I

FLORIDA CENTRAL &c. RAILROAD v. BELL.

329

Opinion of the Court.
sents no question which, of itself, confers jurisdiction on a
Circuit Court of the-United States. Blackburn v. Por land
Gold ining Co., 175 U. S. 571.
But it seems to be thought that, by alleging that the defendant claimed and contended, in the land department, that the
plaintiffs were not entitled, under any of the laws of the
United States, to have a patent granted to them, and that
the defendant at the time of the commencement of this suit
clainred and insisted that the plaintiffs derived no title to the
said land under and by virtue of 'the said patent, and at said
time claimed that, under the laws of the United States, and
especially under and by virtue of the first section of an act
of Congress, entitled "An act granting public lands in alternate sections to the States of Florida and Alabama, to aid in
the construction, of railroads in said States," approved May
17, 1856,, it was entitled and had the right to locate the
route of its railroad and construct the same through the
said lands, and to be in possession thereof, on the ground,
among other grounds, that the said section eight was a part
of that tract of land which constituted at one time a military
reservation knowh as the Fort Brooke Military Reservation,
at Tampa,' State of Florida, there was presented a question
needing for its solution 'a construction of laws of the United
States.
It is obvious that all that is added, by these allegations, to
the plaintiffs' statement of their own claim, is a statement of
what the defendant claimed' before and at the time of the
commencement of this suit:in respect to its own title. The
plaintiffs were not pretending to have title under the act of
May 17, 1856, however it might be- construed. That act was,
under the allegations of the declaration, the source of the
defendant's title, but it could not affect the plaintiffs' title
unless it were pleaded and set up by the defendant. It-has
been several times held by this court that the plaintiff, if the
statement of his own claim does not disclose a Federal question,
cannot create jurisdiction in a Circuit Court by anticipating the
defendant's claim, and by alleging that the defendant will set
up a defence under some law of the United States.

OCTOBER TERMA, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Thus in Tennessee v. Union and Planters'Bank, 152 U. S.
454, 464., Mr. Justice Gray, after citing Afetealf v. Watertown,
128 U. S. 586, and other oases, said:
"In each of the three cases now before this court, the only
right claimed by the plaintiffs is under the law of Tennessee,
and they assert no right whatever under the Constitution and
laws of the United States. In the first and second bills the
only reference to the Qonstitution or laws of the United States
is -the suggestion that the defendants willi/ontend that the
law of the State under which the plaintiffs claim is void,
begause in contravention of. the Constitution of the United
Staies; and by the settled law of this court, as appears from
the decisions above cited, a. suggestion of one party, that the
other will or may set up a claim under the Constitution or
laws of the United .States, does n6t make the suit one arising
under that Constitution or those laws."
CAhapeZl v. Waterworth, 155 U. S. 102; Vast Zake land
Co. v. Brown, 155 U. S. 488; Oregon ,S ort Zine 0o; v.
,Skottowe, 162 U. S. 490.
And, even if it could be held that, by. anticipating a supposed defence, a FederAl question might be made to appear
to be involved in the controversy, jurisdiction in the Circuit
Court would fail if, on the coming in of the plea or answer,
the defence would turn oet-to be based on matter wholly inde-.
pendent of the Constitution or any law of the United States;
and it would be the clear duty of the court to dismiss the suit
for'the reason that it did not "really and substantially involve
a dispute or controversy within the jurisdiction of that court."
So it was held in Robinson v. Anderson, 121 U. S. 522, 524,
where an order of the.Circuit Court dismissing the case was
affirmed, this court saying, through Mr. Chief Justice Waite:
" Even if the complaint, standing by itself, made out a case
of jurisdiction, which we do not decide, it was taken away as
soon as the answers were in, because if there was jurisdiction
at all it was by reason of the averments in the complaint as
to what the defences against the title of the plaintiff would
be, and these were of no avail as soon as the answers were
filed and it was made to appear,that no such defences were

FLORIDA CENTRAL &c. RAILROAD v. BELL.

331

Opinion of the Court.

relied on. The Circuit Court cannot.be required to keep
jurisdiction of a suit simply because the averments in a complaint or declaration make a case arising under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States, if, when the pleadings
are all in, it appears that these averments are immaterial
in determination of the matter really in dispute between the
parties, and *especially if, as here, they were evidently made
'for the purpose of creating a case ' cognizable by the Circuit
Court, when none in fact existed."
Such observations are directly applicable to the present
case, for the defendant, in its plea to the jurisdiction of the
court, explicitly admitted the plaintiffs' title to the land under
the, patent, and denied that the defendant claimed title to the
land in dispute under the act of May 17, 1856, or under any
other act of Congress, but placed its defence, by way of confession and avoidance, on totally different grounds than those
mentioned in the declaration, and which involved no construction or application of the Constitution or laws of the United
States.
It is contended, however, that, whether or not .the Circuit
Court had jurisdiction to determine the question of title to
the land in dispute or of the right of possession thereof,'theplaintiffs' demand to recover mesne profits, accruing between
the preemption entry and the issuance of the patent, presented
-a question within the jurisdiction of that court. It is not easy
to perceive why, if the Circuit Court did not possess jurisdiction to decide the right of possession, it could have jurisdiction
to pass upon the question of mesne profits, the right to recover
which would depend on the right of possession.
In affirming this view of the case, the Circuit Court of
Appeals cites Durango Zand &ffCoaZ Co r pany v. Evans, 49
U. S. App. 305. That was a case where the Circuit Court
bf Appeals of the Eighth Circuit held that the inquiry as to.
the right of the plaintiff to recover mesne profits, accruing
while the alleged contest was depending and undetermined
in the general land office, involved an examination and construction of the laws of'the United States. The .case Was
brought to this court, but was dismissed on stipulation of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

parties. The report of the case does not disclose whether
there was really a controversy between the parties respecting
the construction of the land laws of the United States. What
really seems to have been involved, iri respect to mesne profits,
was whether the doctrine of relation, which is a common law
doctrine, would enable the plaintiff, after having established
his title, to recover the mesne profits which accrued while
the plaintiff was wrongfully excluded from possession. Such
a question would not seem to be a Federal one, but one incidental to the determination of the principal controversy concerning the right of possession.
At all events, there is nothing disclosed in the declaration
in the present case showing that, so far as the damages and
mesne profits are concerned, any Federal question was presented. If the Circuit Court had jurisdiction to determine the
right of possession, and, in the exercise of that jurisdiction,
decided in the plaintiffs' favor, the incidental question of the
time when damages and profits would accrue to the plaintiffs
would legitimately arise. But if that court had not jurisdiction to determine the controversy as to the right of possession,
it could not draw to itself the jurisdiction of the case by. considering what the coniequences would be if the plaintiffs were
permitted to recover possession.
Apart from the question of jurisdiction arising from the
presence of any Federal question, can it be said that jurisdiction did attach in respect to thdse plaintiffs who were alleged
to be citizens of Texas?
As we have seen, neither of the courts below were of that
opinion. The judgment of the Circuit Court was in favor of
all the plaintiffs jointly for the entire tract in dispute, and in
so doing, followed the plaintiffs' claim in their declaration,
wherein they claimed title to the whole tract as belonging to
them jointly. They did not allege that they were tenants in
common, although in the findings the court found that the
respective plaintiffs held undivided interests in the land.
In Strawbridge v. Curti, 3 C.ranch, 267, it was said:
"Where the interest is joint, each of the persons concerned in
that interest must be conpetent-to sue, or liable to be sued,

FLORIDA CENTRAL &c. RA ILROAD v. BELL.

333

Opinion of the Court.

in those (Circuit) Courts, but the court does not mean to give
an opinion in the case where several parties represent several
distinct interests, and some of those parties are, and others
are not, competent to sue or liable to be sued, in the courts of
the United States."
NVew Orleans v. Winter, 1 Wheat. 91, 91, was the case of
a possessory action brought by the heirs of Elisha Winter,
deceased, to recover the possession and property of certain!
lands in the city of New Orleans. One of the petitioners was
described in the record as a citizeA of the State of Kentucky,
and the other as a' citizen of the Territory of Mississippi.
The plaintiffs recovered- a judgment in the Circuit Court, but
this judgment was reversed b y this court, Chief Justice Marshall saying:
"Gabriel Winter, then, being a citizen of the Mississippi'
Territory, was incapable of maintaining a suit alone in the
Circuit Court of Louibiana. Is his case mended 'by being associated with others who are capable of suing in that- court?
In the case of .Strawbridge v. Curti.s it was decided that
where a joint interest is prosecuted, the jurisdiction cannot be
sustained, unless each individual be entitled to claim that'
jurisdiction. In this case it has been doubtd whether the
parties might elect t6 sue jointly or' severally. However this
may be, having'elected to sue jointly, the coiurt is incapable
of distinguishing their case, so far as v'espects jurisdiction,
from one in which they were compelled to unite. The Circuit Court of Louisiana, therefore, had no jurisdiction of the
;cause, and their judgment must, on that account, be reversed,
and the petition dismissed."
In Barney v. Baltimore, 6 Wall. 280, it was held that part
owners or tenants in common in real estate, of which partition is asked in equity, have an interest in the subject-matter
of the suit, and in the relief sought, so intimately connbeoted
with that of their cotenants, that if these cannot be subjected
to the jurisdiction of the court, the bill will be dismissed.
ffooe v. Jamieson, 166 U. S. 395, was an action of ejectment
brought in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District of Wisconsin, by a complaint in which the plain-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899..;
Opinion of the Court.

tiffs alleged that they resided in and were citizens of the city
of Washington, D. C., and that defendants all resided in and
were citizens of the State of Wisconsin. D~fen'dants moved
' t6 dismis$ the action on the ground that the Circuit Court had
iao jurisdiction, as the controversy was not between citizens of
different States. The Circuit Court ordered that the action be
'dismissed unless plaintiffs within five'days thereafter should
so amend their complaint as to allege the necessary jurisdic,tionalfacts. Plaintiffs then moved for leave to amend their
complaint by averring that three of them were when the suit
Wa cdmmenced, and continued to be, citizens of tlhe District
of Columbia, but that one of them was a citizen of the State
of Minnesota, and that each was the owner of an undivided
one fourth of the lands and premises described in the complaint, and that they severally claimed damages and demanded
judgment. This motion was denied, and the action dismissed.
Plaintiffs sued out a writ of error,-.and the Circuit Court certifled to this court these questions of jurisdiction: First. Whether
or not said complaint set forth any cause of action in whidh
there is a controversy between citizens of different States, so
as to give said Circuit Court jurisdiction thereof. Second;
Whethier or not said complaint as so proposed to be amended
would, if so amended, set forth any cause. of action in which
there is a controversy between citizens of different States so
as to give said Circuit Court jurisdiction there6f. This court
held, through Mr. Chief Justice Fuller, after reviewing the
cases, that the voluntary joinder of the parties had the same
effect for purposes of jurisdiction as if they had been com'.pelled to unite; that as no application was made to discontinue
as to the three plaintiffs who were citizens of the District of
Columbia, hnd to amend the complaint and proceed with the
cause in favor of that one of the plaintiffs alleged to be a citizen.'of Minnesota, jurisdiction as to four plaintiffs could not
be maintaified on the theory that when the trial terminated
it might be retained as to one. Accordingly the judgment of
the Circuit Court was reversed.
As, then, in the present case, the plaintiffs elected to assert
a joint claim and title to the land in dispute, and recovered a

ADIRONDACK RAILWAY v. NEW YORK STATE. "335
Syllabus.

joint judgment for their undivided interests therein, and as
the plaintiffs' declaration jdiscloses no Federal question, the
principles of the cited cases apply, and compel a dismissal of
the suit for want of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court
This conclusion withdraws from our consideration th errors
assigned to the action of the courts below in respect to the,
defendant's several pleas of lisjendens.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Ap.peaM is reversed;
the judgment of the Circuit Court i8 liewise reversed,
and the cause is remanded"to that court with directions to
dismiss the actionfor want.of jurisdiction.'

ADIRONDACK RAILWAY COMPANY v. NEW
YORK STATE.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 489.

Argued January 15, 16, 1900.-Decided February 26, 1900.

While the legislative power to amend or repeal a statute cannot be availed
of to take away property already acquired, or to deprive a corporation- of
fruits of contracts lawfully made already reduced to possession, the
capacity to acquire laud by condemnation for the construction of a railroad attends the franchise to be a railroad corp6ration' and, when unexecuted, cannot be held, to be in itself a,vested right surviving the
existence of the franchise, or an 'authorized ircumscription of its
scope.
The highest court of the State of New York having held that there is no
property in a naked railroad route in that State which the State is
obliged to pay for when it needs the land co ered by that route for a
great public use, and its officers are by appropilate legislation authorized
to act, this court accepts the views of that coutt, and thinks that the prOceedings on the part of the State which are Complained of in this case,
impaired the obligation of no contract between it and the railway company.
The necessity or expediency of appropriating particular property for public
use is not a matter of judicial cognizance, bilt one for the determination
of the legislative branch of the Government;; and this must Obviously 4e.
so when the State takes for its own purposes.
-

