BLAKE v. McCLUlNG.
Counsel for Parties.

respective attorneys, that, unless this court otherwise ordered,
only the record in the Wilcox suit should be printed, and that
the appeal in this case might be heard and submitted without
printing the record thereof.
Upon the authority of United States v. Oregon 6 California
Railroad ( lompany and Wilcox v. Eastern Oregon Land Company, just-decided, the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
reversing the judgment of the Circuit Court and directing a
decree in favor of the plaintiff, the Eastern Oregon Land Company, is
Affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE MaKENNA

did not participate in the decision

of this case.

178 291-

BLAKE v. McCLUNVG.

17

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSE E.

178

No. 466. Submitted December 18, 1899.-Decided January 8, 1900.
The decision in Blake v. Mc5lung, 172 U. S. 239, referred to; and it is
held that the judgment now under review was not in conformity with
the opinion and mandate in that case- the court adjudging, as it had
adjudged in the previous case, that when the general property and assets
of a private corporation, lawfully doing business in a State, are in the
course of administration by the courts of such State, creditors who are
citizens of other States are entitled, under the Constitution of the United
States, to stand in all respvects upon the same P lane with creditors of like
class who are citizens of such State, and cannot be denied equality of
right simply because they do not reside in that State, but are citizens
residing in other States of the Union.

THME case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Hr. Tully R. Cornick and -Yr. Heber J. May for plaintiffs

in error.
_Yr.,.
in error.

. Tfilliamq and Mr. John If. Green for defendants

29

178 M99

OCTOBER TERAI, 1899.
Opinion' of the Court.

MR.Jus'noE'HA LAN delivered the opinion of the court.

This case has been heretofore in thi§ court upon writ of
error brought to review a final decree of the Supreme Court
of Tennessee. Blake v. fEoClung, 172 U. S. 239.
That decree was rendered in a suit instituted by C. M.
Mclung & Co. for the administration of the property and
affairs of the Embreeville Freehold, Land, Iron and Railway
Company, Limited -an insolvent British mining and manufacturing company doing business in Tennessee. Among the
creditors who filed intervening petitions in the suit were
C. G. Blake, a citizen of Ohio; Rogers, Brown & Company,
the members of which firm were also citizens of Ohio; and
the Hull Coal & Coke Company, a corporation of Virginia.
It was *adjudged by the Supreme Court of Tennessee that
all the creditors of the British corporation who resided in
Tennessee were entitled to priority of payn'e.nt out of its
assets, real and personal, over all other creditors who did not
reside in Tennessee, whether they were residents of other
States of the United States or of the Kingdom of Great
Britain; and that all creditors residing out of Tennessee,
whether in other States of the Union or in the Kingdom of
Great Britain, had the right and must share equally hud ratably in the distribution of the assets of the company after the
residents of Tennessee should haye been first paid in full.
The decree so rendered was in conformity with a statute of
Tennessee passed March 19, 1877,the fif.th section of which
provided: -" That the corporations, and the property of all
corporations coming under the provisions of this act, shall be
liable for all the debts, liabilities and engagements of the said
corporations, to be enforced in the manner provided by law,
for the applicatibn of the property of natural persons to the
payment of their debts, engagements and contracts. Nevertheless, creditors who may be residents.ofthis State shall have
a priorityin the distributionof assets, or subjection of the same,
or any poart thereof, to the payment of debts over all smple contract'creditors,being residents of any other country or countries,
and also over mortgage or judgment creditors, for all debts,

BLAKE v. McOLUNG.
Opinion of the Court.

engagements and contracts which were made or owing by
the said corporations previous to the filing and registration of
such valid mortgages, or the rendition of such valid judgments.
But all such mortgages and judgments shall be valid, and shall
constitute a prior lien on the property on which they are or
may be charged as against all debts which may be incurred
subsequent to the date of their registration or rendition. The
said corporations shall be liable to taxation in all respects the
same as natural persons resident in this State, and the property
of its citizens is or may be liable to taxation, but to no higher,
taxation, nor to any other moaIe of valuation, for the purpose
of taxation; and the said corporations shall be entitled to all
such exemptions from taxation which are now or may hereafter be granted to citizens or corporations for the purpose of
encouraging manufacturers in this State, or otherwise." Acts
of Tennessee 1877, c. 31, p. 44.
The validity of that statute was drawn in question by Blake
and Rogers, Brown & Company as well as the Hull Coal &
Coke Company, who specially claimed that the judgment
based upon the statute had denied to them respectively rights
secured by the second section of the Fourth Article of the
Constitution of the United States, providing that "the citizens
of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities
of citizens in the several States," as well as by the first sectioni of the Fourteenth Amendment, declaring that no State
shall "deprive any person of life, liberty or property without
due process of law," nor "deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws."
The Supreme Court of the State sustained the constitutionality of the statute, and from its final judgment Blake and
Rogers, Brown & Company, and the Hull Coal- & Coke Company, prosecuted a writ of error to this court.
The general question presented for determination by this
court was thus stated in its opinion: "Beyond question, a
State may through judicial proceedings take possession of the
assets of an insolvent foreign corporation within its limits,.
and distribute such assets or their proceeds among creditors
according to their respective rights. But may it exclude

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

citizens of other States from such distribution until the claims
of its own citizens shall have been first satisfied? In the
administration of the property of an insolvent foreign corporation by the courts of the State in which it is doing business,
will the Constitution of the United States permit discrimination against individual creditors of such corporation because
of their being citizens of other States, and not citizens of the
State in which such administration occurs?"
Upon a review of prior decisions this court said: "The
foundation upon which the above cases rest cannot however
stand, if it be adjudged to be in the power of one State, when
establishing regulations for the conduct of private business of
a particular kind, to give its own citizens essential privileges
connected with that business which it denies to citizens of
other States. By the statute in question the British company was to be deemed and taken to be a corporation of
Tennessee, with authority to carry on its business in that
State. It was the right of citizens of Tennessee to deal with
it, as it was their right to deal with corporations created by
Tennessee. And it was equally the right of citizens of other
States to deal with that corporation. The State did not
assume to declare, even if it could legally have declared, that
that company, being admitted to do business in Tennessee,
should transact business only with citizens of Tennessee, or
should not transact business with citizens of other States.
No one would question the right of the individual plaintiffs
in error, although not residents of Tennessee, to sell their
goods to that corporation upon such terms in respect of payment as might be agreed ftpon, and to ship them to the co4
poration -at its place of business in that State. But the
enjoyment of these rights is materially obstructed by the
statute in question; for this statute, by its necessary operation,
excludes citizens of other States from transacting business
with that corporation upon terms of equality with citizens of
Tennessee.. By force of the statute alone, citizens of other
States, if they contracted at all with the British corporation,
must have done so subject to the onerous condition that if the
corporation became insolvent its assets in Tennessee should

BIMAKE v. McCLUNG.
Opinion of the Court.

first be applied to .meet its obligations to residents of that
State, although liability for its debts and engagements was
'to be enforced in the manner provided by law for the application of the property of natural persons to the payment
of their debts, engagements and contracts.' But, clearly the
State could not in that 'node secure exclusive privileges to its
own citizens in matters of business. If a State should attempt,
by statute regulating the distribution of the property of insolvent individuals among their creditors, to- give priority to the
claims of such individual creditors as were citizens of that
State over the claims of individual creditors, citizens of other
States, such legislation would be repugnant to the Constitution upon the ground that it withheld from citizens of other
States as such, and because they were such, privileges granted
to citizens of the State enacting it. Can a different principle
apply, as between individual citizens of the several States,
when the assets to be distributed are the assets of an insolvent private corporation lawfully engaged in business and
having the power to contract with citizens residing in States
other than the one in which it is located?"
Referring to the established rule that the property of a
corporation was a trust fund for the payments of its debts in
the sense that when it is lawfully dissolved and its affairs
closed, or when it is insolvent, all its creditors are entitled in
equity to have their debts paid out of the corporate property
before any distribution thereof among stockholders, this court
further said: "These principles obtain, no doubt, in Tennessee,
and will be applied by its courts in all appropriate cases between citizens of that State, without making any distinction
between them. Yet the courts of that State are forbidden, by
tihe statute in question, to recognize the right in equity of
citizens residing in other States to participate upon terms of
equality with citizens of Tennessee in the distribution of the
assets of an insolvent foreign corporation lawfully doing business in that State. We hold such -discrimination against
citizens of other States to be repugnant to the second section
of the Fourth Article of the Constitution of the United States,
although, generally speaking, the State has the power to pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court

scribe the conditions upon which foreign corporations may
enter its territory for purposes of business. Such a power
cannot be exerted with the effect of defeating or impairing
rights secured to citizens of the several States by the supreme
law of the land. Indeed, all the powers possessed by a State
must be exercised consistently with the privileges and immunities granted or protected by the. Constitution of the United
States."
Again: "The statute of Tennessee did not make it a condition of the right of the British corporation to come into
Tennessee for purposes of business that it should, at the outset, deposit with the State a fixed amount to stand exclusively
or primarily for the protection of-its Tennessee creditors. It
allowed that corporation, after complying with the terms of
the statute, to conduct its business in Tennessee as it saw. fit,
and did not attempt to impose any restriction upon its making
contracts with or incurring liabilities to citizens of other States.
It permitted that corporation'to contract with citizens of other
States, and then, in effect, provided that all such contracts
should be subject to the condition (in case the corporation
became insolvent) that creditors residing in other States
should stand aside, in the distribution by the Tennessee courts
of the assets of the corporation, until creditors residing in
Tennessee were fully paid -not out of any funds or property
specifically set aside as a trust fund, and at the outset put into
the custody of the State, for the exclusive benefit, or for the
benefit primarily, of Tennessee creditors, but out of whatever
assets of any kind the corporation might have -in that State
when insolvency occurred. In other words, so far as Tennessee legislation is concerned, while this corporation could lawfully have contracted with citizens of other States, those
citizens cannot share in its general assets upon terms of
equality with citizens of that State. If such legislation does
not deny to citizens of other States, in respect of matters growing out of the ordinary transactions of business, privileges that
are accorded to it by citizens of Tennessee, it is difficult to
perceive what legislation would effect that result. We adjudge that when the general property and assets, of a private

BLAKE v. AcCL NG.
Opinion of the Court.

corporation, lawfully doing business in a State, are in the
course of administration by the courts of such State, creditors
who are citizens of other States are entitled, under the Constitution of the United States, to stand upon the same plane
with creditors of like class who are citizens of such State, and
cannot be denied equality of right simply because they do not
reside in that State, but are citizens residing in other States
of the. Union. The individual plaintiffs in error were entitled
to contract with this British corporation, lawfully doing business in Tennessee, and deemed and taken to be a corporation
of that State; and: no rule in the distribution of its assets
among creditors could be applied to them as resident citizens
9f. Ohio, and because they were not residents of Tennessee,
that was not applied by the courts of Tennessee to creditors
of like character who were citizens of Tennessee."
In relation to the Hull Coal & Coke Company this court
held that it was not a citizen of the United States within the
meaning" of the second section of the Fourth Article of the
Constitution; and although a "person" within the meaning
of the Fourteenth Amendment that company was not deprived of its property without the due process of law guaranteed by that amendment, and not being within the jurisdiction
of Tennessee it could" not invoke the protection of the clause
forbidding the denial by a State of the equal protection of
the laws to persons within its jurisdiction.
. By the final order of this court the judgment of the state
court was affirmed as to the Hull Coal & Coke Company,
upon the ground that no right, privilege or immunity secured
to it by the Constitution of the United States had been denied. As the other plaintiffs in error- Blake and'Rogers,
Brown & Company - the judgment was reversed, and the
cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with
the opinion of this court.
After the decision here, the cause was again heard in the
Supreme Court of Tennessee on the motion of Blake and
Rogers, Brown & Company for a decree in conformity with
the opinion and mandate of this court.
That court adjudged: "1. That the effect and purpose of
VOL. CLXXVI-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1899
Opinion of the Court.

the opinion and mandate of the Supreme Court of the United
States in respect to thd rights of 0. G. Blake and Rogers,
Brown & Company, is to adjudge and decree that the said
C. G. Blake and Rogers, Brown & Company are entitled to
participate in the assets of the said Embreeville Freehold,
Land, Iron-and Railway Company, Limited, upon the basis of
a broad distribution of the assets of said corporation among
all of its creditors, without preference or priority, as though
the act of 1877, chap. 31, had not been passed; and it is
ordered that there be made a computation of the aggregate
indebtedness due from the said insolvent corporation to its
creditors of every class, wherever residing, and that there
shall be paid to the said C. G. Blake, and the said Rogers,
Brown & Company, the percentage and proportion which is
found to be due to them as creditors of said corporation in
the aggregate of assets thus ascertained.
2. It is further
adjudged and decreed, that after thus setting dpart to the
said C. G. Blake, and Rogers, Brown & Company the proportion and percentage thus found to be due to them, that all
the rest and residue of the estate of the said Embreeville
Freehold, Land, Iron and RailVay Company, Limited, is
'applicable frsXt to the payment of the indebtedness due to
the creditors o said corporation residing within the State of
Tennessee, as provided in section 5 of chapter 31 of the acts
of Tennessee, 1877, and that the residue of said estate, if any,
shall then be appliedpro ratato the payment of the debts of
the alien and non-resident creditors of said corporation, other
than the said C.G. Blake, and Rogers, Brown & Company."
The cause was remhanded to the court of original jurisdiction
for the collectibn and distribution of the fund then in that
court, and for the. making of such further orders as might be
found necessary to the final settlement of the cause. Mr.
Justice Beard dissented upon grounds stated in his opinion
which is published in 52 S. W. Rep. 1001.
Blake and Rogers, Brown & Company excepted to the
action of the state court "in determining that creditors residing in Tennessee were entitled under the act of 1877,
c. 31, § 5, to any priority or preference, by way of increased

BLAKE v. McCLUNG.
Opinion of the Court.

percentages in distribution" over them, on the ground that
such priority and preference was in violation of section 2 of
Article IV of the Constitution of the United States, and was
not consistent with the opinion and mandate of this court.
The present writ of error was brought to review the last
judgment.
We are constrained to hold that the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Tennessee is not in conformity with the
opinion and mandate of this court. The thought expressed
in our former opinion was that Blake and Rogers, Brown &
Company, citizens of Ohio and general creditors of the Embreeville Freehold, Land, Iron and Railway Company, were
entitled in the distribution in Tennessee of the assets of that
insolvent corporation, to stand ipon the same plane with
citizens of Tennessee who were also general creditors of the
same corporation; and that the judgment of the state court
heretofore under review, 172 U. S. 539, so far as it gave
priority to citizens of Tennessee over citizens of other States,
was inconsistent with the second section of the Fourth Article
of the Constitution of the United States, providing that "the
citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and
immunities of citizens in the several States."
By the judgment now under review certain creditors, solely
because of their being citizens of Tennessee, are accorded
advantages in the distribution of the assets in qftestion which
are denied to other breditors solely because of their being
citizens of another State than Tennessee. That judgment
gives to the plaintiffs in error respectively their percentage
of the. entire assets of the insolvent corporation upon the
basis of equality among all the creditors, wherever residing,
and that being done, the court in effect directs the idea of
equality among, all creditors to be abandoned, and "all the
rest and residue of the estate" of the insolvent corporation
to be applied first to the payment of the debts due to citizens
of Tennessee. Thus the decree gave a decided advantage to
Tennessee creditors over Ohio creditors, when, as Mr. Justice
Beard correctly said, the cause was remanded by this court
substantially with direction that the state court should see*

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

to it that no advantage accrued to Tennessee creditors over
the Ohio creditors.
It is not within the province of this court to prescribe the
form of a decree to be entered for the distribution of the
assets, in question. But it is both its province and duty to
adjudge, in accordance with the supreme law of the land, as
.we now do, that the plaintiffs in error, citizens of Ohio, are
entitled to share in the distribution of the assets of this insolvent corporation upon terms of equality, in all respects, with
like creditors who are citizens of Tennessee. No decree
giving to the latter privileges or advantages that are denied
to the former is, as we have heretofore adjudged, consistent
with the Constitution of the United States. In the distribution of what is called in the decree "all the rest and residue
of the estate of the Embreeville Freehold, Land, Iron and
Railway Company," or in the proceeds thereof, the plaintiffs
in error should be placed upon the same plane of equality
with Tennessee creditors. The plaintiffs in error cannot be
denied participation in any of the assets of the insolvent
corporation that are taken into account when ascertaining
the rights of the Tennessee creditors and the amounts to be
paid to them on their respective demands. Whatever rule
is applied for the benefit of the latter must be applied in
behalf of the Ohio creditors.
The judgment is reversed, and the cause remanded for such
.furtherproceedingsas may be consistent with this opinion.

50
5201

HOLT v. INDIANA MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF INDIANTA.
No. 80. Argued December 19, 20, 1899. -Decided

January 15, 1900.

The reasons for refusing, at October Term 1898, to dismiss this case on the
ground that the appeal to this court was not taken in time, are the same
as those set forth in Allen v. Southern Pacific Bailroad,173 U. S. 179.

