CRUICKSHANK v. BIDWELL.
Syllabus.

of all suits of a civil nature, at common law or in equity,
where the matter in dispute exceeds, exclfisive of interest
and costs, the sum or value of two-thousand dollars, and arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States,;.or
treaties made, or which shall be.made, under their authority. . . ." This was carefully considered in United States
v. ayward, 160 U. S. 493, and it was held that the sum or
value named was jurisdictional, and that the Circuit Cdurt
could not, under the statute, take original cognizance of a
case arising under the Constitution' or laws of the United
States unless the sum or value of the matter in dispute,
exclusive of costs and interest, exceeded two thousand dollars.
That decision was reaffirmed in Fishbak v. Fester . Union
Tegraph Company, 161 .U. S. 96, 99. And the conclusion
reached is not- affected by the fact that the operation of the
act of March 3, 1891, was to do away with any pecuniary
limitAtion on appeals directly from the Circuit Courts to this
court. The Paquete aEabana, 175 U. S. 671.
We are therefore constrained to hold that the Circuit Court
had "no jurisdiction.
Decree reversed, with costs, and cause remanded to -the
Circuit Court with a direction to dismiss the bill.

CRUICKSHAK"

v. BIDWELL.

APPEAL F7ROM THE oi~crr COURT OF THE UN=TE

STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 282. Argued November 10, 18, 1899.-Decided January 15, 1900.

The mere fact that a law is unconstitutional does not entitle a! party to
relief by injunction against proceedings in compliance therewith, but
It must appear that he has no adequate remedy by the ordinary processes
of the law, or that the case falls under some recognized head pf equity
jurisdiction; and In this case the averments of the complainants' bill did
not justify such an interference with executive action.
The seizure of importations of teas purchased after the alproval of the
act of March 2, 1897, c. 358, entitled "An act to prevent the importation

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.
of impure and unwholesome tea," and the establishment of regulations
and standards thereunder, publicly promulgated and known to complainants, because falling below the standards prescribed, could Inflict no
other injury than what it must be assumed was anticipated, and the
interposition of a court of equity cannot properly be invoked, under
such circumstances, to determine in advance whether complainants, if
they imported teas of that character, could escape the consequences on
the ground of the invalidity of the law.

THIs is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit-Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York dismiss-

ing, on demurrer, a bill in equity brought by Cruickshak and
others, copartners doing business in the city of New York,
against George R. Bidwell, collector of customs for the port
of New York
The bill averred that complainants were engaged in importing teas from Japan into the United States; that during the
month of November, 1897, they. imported into the United
States and entered at the custom house in the port of New
York, several invoices of tea of the aggregate value of something over $4100 ; that they applied to defendant as collector
of customs for permission to take possession of the goods, and
the collector refused to permit them. to do so, but retained
the same in his own possession, claiming that he was there-

unto authorized by the provisions of an act of Congress,
approved March 2, 1897, c. 328, 29 Stat. 604, entitled "An
act to prevent the importation of impure and unwholesome
tea." This act is printed in the margin.'
1 That from and after May first, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, it
shall be unlawful for any person or persons or corporation to import or
bring into the United States any merchandise as tea which is inferior
in purity, quality and fitness for consumption to the standards provided
In section three of this act, and the importation of all such merchandise
Is hereby prohibited.
SEc. 2. That immediately after the passage of this act, and on or before
February fifteenth of each year thereafter, the Secretary of the Treasury
shall appoint a board, to consist of seven members, each of.whom shall be
an expjert in teas, and who shall prepare and submit to him standard samples
of tea; that the person so appointed shall be at all times subject to removal
by the said Secretary, and shall serve for the term of one year; that vacancies in the said board ocdurring by removal, death, resignation or any other

CRUICKSHTANK v. BIDWELL.
Statement of the Case.

That defendant pretends that he is entitled "so to refuse to
permit your orators to take possession of said teas and to dispose of the same, on the ground that samples of said teas, of
cause shall be forthwith filled by the Secretary of the Treasury by appointment, such appointee to hold for the unexpired term; that said hoard shall
appoint a presiding officer, who shall be the medium of all communications
to or from such board; that each member of said board shall receive as
compensation the sum of fifty dollars per annum, which, together with all
necessary expenses while engaged upon the duty herein provided, shall be
paid out of the appropriation for "expenses -f collecting the revenue from
customs."
Szc. 3. That the Secretary of the Treasury, upon the recommendation of
the said board, shall fix and establish uniform standards of purity, quality
and fitness for consumption of all kinds of teas imported into the United
States, and shall procure and deposit in the custom houses of the ports of
New York, Chicago, San Francisco and such other ports as he may determine, duplicate samples of such standards; that said Secretary shall procure a sufficient number of other duplicate samples of such standards to
supply the importers and dealers in tea at all ports during the same
at cost. All teas, or merchandise described as tea, of inferior purity,
quality and fitness for consumption to such standards shall be deemed
within the prohibiti6n' of the first section hereof.
SEc. 4. That on making entry at the custom house of all teas, or merchandise described as tea, imported into the United States, the importer or
consignee shall give a bond to the collector of the port that such merchandise shall not be removed from the warehouse until released by the collector,
after it shall have been duly examined with reference to its purity, quality
and fitness for 6onsumption; that for the purpose of such examination
samples of each line in every invoice of tea shall be submitted by the importer or consignee to the examiner, together with the sworn statement of
such importer or consignee that such samples represent the true quality of
each and every part of the invoice and accord with the specifications therein
contained; or in the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury, such,
samples shall be obtained by the examiner and compared by him with the
standards established by this act; and in cases where said tea, or merchandise
described as tea, is entered at ports where there is no qualified examiner as
provided in section seven, the consignee or importer shall in the manner
aforesaid furnish under oath a sample of each line of tea to the collector or
other revenue officer to whom is committed the collection of duties, and
said officer sall also draw or cause to be drawn samples of each line in
every invoice and shall forward the same to a duly qualified examiner -as
provided in section seven: Trovided, however, That the bond above required
shall also be conditioned for the payment of all custom-house charges which
may attach to such merchandise prior to its being released or destroyed (as
the case may'be) under the provisions of this act.

76

OCTOBER- TERM, 1899.Statement of the Case.

each of said several- invoices hereinafter set forth, have been
taken by examiners appointed under the alleged authority
of the said act of Congress, and compared with certain other
samples of other teas sele6ted by the Secretary of the TreasSEc. 5. That if, after an examination as provided in section four, the
tea is found by the examiner to be equal in purity, quality and fitness for
consumption to the standards hereinbefore provided, and no regxamination
shall be demanded by the collector as provided in section six, a permit shall
at once be granted to the importer or consignee declaring the tea free from
the'contrq1 of the customs authorities; but if on examination such tea,
or.erchandise described as tea, is found, in the opinion of the examiner,:
to 'b inferior in purity, quality and fitness for consumption to the said
standards the importer or. consignee shall be immediately notified, and the
tea, or merchandise described as tea, shall not be released by the custom
hobise, unless on a reexamination called for by the importeiror consignee
the finding of thc examiner shall be found to be erroneous: Provided, That
should a portion of the invoice be passed by the examiner, a permit shall be
"granted for that portion and the remainder held for further examination, as
-provided in section six.
SEc. 6. That in case the collector, importer or consignee shall protest
against the finding of the examiner, the matter in dispute shall be refirred
for decision to a board of three United States general appraisers, to be
designated by the Secretary of the Treasury, and if such board* shall, after
due examination, find the tea in-question to be equal in purity, quality and
fitness for consumption to the proper standards, a permit shall be issued
*by the collector for its release and delivery to the importer; but if upon
such final reexamination by such board the tea shall be found to be inferior
in purity, quality and fitness for consumption to the said standards, the
importer or consignee shall give a bond, with security satisfactory to the
colleetor, to export said tea, or merchandise described as tea, out of
the lilts of the United States within a period of six months after such
final reexamination; and if the same shall not have been exported within
-the time specified, the collector, at the expiration of that time, shall cause
the same to be destroyed.
SEc. 7. That the examination herein provided for shall be-made by a duly
qualified examiner at a port where standard samples are established, and
where the merchandise is entered at ports where there is no qualified examiner, the examination shall be made at that one'of said ports which is n~arest the port of entry, and that for this purpose samples of the merchandise,
obtained in the manner prescribed by section four of this act, shall be.forwarded to the proper poit by the collector or chief officer at the port of
entry; that.in all cases of examination or reexamination of teas, or merchan'dise described as tea, by examiners or boards of United States general
appraisers under-the provisions of this act, the purity, quality and fitness
-for cotsumption of the same shall be -ested according to the usages and cus-

CRUICKSHANK. v. BIDWELL.
Statement of the Case.

ury of the United States, and set up 'as standard samples of
teas under the alleged authority of the said act of Congress,
and that the samples so taken from the said teas hereinafter
set forth, were inferior in some or all of the respects designated in said act of Congrdss, either as "to purity, quality or
fitness for consumption, to the standards so prescribed by said
Secretary of the Treasury of the United States."
,That defendant claims the right to retain the teas for six
months, and then cause them to be destroyed, and demands
that complainants shall give swurity satisfactory to him that
toms of the tea trade, Including the testing of an infusion of the same in
boiling water, and, if necessary, chemical analysis.
SEc. 8. That in cases of regxamination of teas, or merchandise described
as teas, by a board of United States general appraisers in pursuaince of the
provisions hereof, samples of the tea, or merchandise described as tea, in
dispute, for transmission to such board for its decision, shall be put up and
sealed by the examiner in the presence of the importer or consigfiee if be
so desires, and transmitted to such board, together with a copy of the finding of the examiner, setting forththe cause of condemnation and the claim
or ground of the protest of the importer relating to the same, such samples,
and the papers therewith, to be distinguished by such mark that the same
maybe identified; that the decision of such board shall be in writing, signed
by them, And transmitted, together with the record and samples, withi4 three
days after the rendition thereof, to the collector, who shall forthwith furnish the examiner and the importer oi"consignee with a cop of said decision
or finding. The board of United States general appraisers herein provided
for shall be authorized to obtain the advice, when necessary, of persons
skilled in the examination of teas, who shall each receive for his services
In any particular case a compensation not exceeding five dollars.
Sxc..9. That no imported teas which have been rejected by a customs
examiner or by a board of United' States general appraisers, and exported
under the provisions of this act, shall be reimported into the United States
under the penalty of forfeiture for a violation of this prohibition.
S=. 10. That the Secretary of the Treasury shall have the power to enforce the provisions of this act by appropriate regulations.
Suc. 11. That teas actually on shipboard for shipment to the United States
at the time of the passage of this act shall not be subject to the prohibition
hereof, but the provisions of the act entitled "An act to prevent the importation of adulterated and spurious teas," approved March second, eighteen
hundred and eighty-three, shall be applicable thereto.
Swc. 12. That the act entitled "An act to prevent the importation of adulterated and spurious teas," approved March second, eighteen hundred and
eighty-three, is hereby repealed, such repeal to take effect on the date on
which this act goes into effect.. 29 Stat. 601, c. 358.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

if said teas shall be released to them, they will forthwith
export said tias out of the limits of the United States, and
will submit the invoices and various papers relating to said
teas to be marked by defendant as teas "condemned under
the laws of the United States."
The bill then specifically enumerated the entries of the teas,
the warehouses in which they were, and their value respeo
tively, and charged that said act of Congress was in all respects
null and void and of no effect, because contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the United States, in that the act
"pqrports to delegate to the Secretary of the Treasury power,
and authority to legislate as to the quality, purity and fitness
for consumption of the teas imported by your orators, and to
authorize the defendant to seize, hold and destroy said teas,
and deprive your orators of their property in the same without due process of law, and that in this suit the matter in dispute, to wit, the value of the said teas, and the right to import
teas, exclusive of interest and costs, exceeds the sum or value
of two thousand dollars, and the suit arises under the Constitution and laws of the United States."
It was further alleged that by reason of the matters set
forth and the insistence of delendant that he is entitled to
hold possession and control of the goods under authority of
the act of Congress, ." for the reason that the said examiners,
after examination made pursuant to said statute, have declared
the said tbas to be inferior in the respects set forth in the said
act of Congress, or some of them, to the standards fixed and
selected by the Secretary of the Treasury; your orators will
suffer irreparable damage; that the insistence of the defendant of his right to stamp the invoices and papers relating to
the importation of said teas as condemned under the laws of
the United States, renders the said teas worthless for export,
and entry or sale in the markets of other countries, and that
the said claim of the defendant that the said teas cannot be
lawfully taken from the said warehouses, renders the said
teas unsalable and worthless in the market, for the reason
that dealers will not purchase or handle the said goods
under the-cloud or threat of illegality regarding the same

CRUICKSHANK v. BIDWELL.
Statement of the Case.

created by such insistence and claim on the part of the defend.
ant.'
The bill continued: "Your orators further show that your
orators purpose and intend to import from time to time other
invoices of teas into the United States, and that the said
defendant threatens and intends to seize and hold such teas,
and take possession and control of the same, and refuse your
orators possssion of the same, in the same manner and under
the same claim of authority of said act of Congress, as the
said defendant has heretofore made and set up with regard to
the teas hereinbefore set forth, and thbt your orators' right
to import and deal in teas is thereby destroyed and taken
away."
That complainants "do not set up or allege as ground for
denying the right of the defendant so to hold and deal with
said teas, as hereinbefore set forth, any defect, omission
or irregularity in the proceedings by the examiners and
appraisers with regard to said teas, but solely on the ground
that the act of Congress - hereinbefore referred to

.

.

.

is

unconstitutional and void, and confers no authority upon the
defendant, and creates no right in the defendant to refuse to
permit your orators to take possession of the said teas and
introduce them into, and sell them in, the United States."
And further, that complainants had complied in all respects
with the requirements of law as to the entry of the teas in
the custom house at the port "of New York; that there was
no further act required by law of complainants to entitle them
to take possession and dispose of the same; and that complainants "are without any adequate remedy at law."
The bill prayed for injunction restraining defendant "from
continuing to hold possession of the said teas, as hereinbefore
set forth, and from refusing to permit your orators to take
possession of the same and withdraw the same from the said
warehouses, and from marking or stamping the invoices and
papers relating to the importation thereof with the words,
'condemned under the laws of the United States,' or any
words to that effect, and from destroying the said teas, and
from exercising any alleged right, possession or authority

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

relating to or concerning the ,said teas, purporting to be conferred or created or authorized by the said act of Congress ; ".
and for general relief.
Xr. John S. Davenport for appellants.
3&. Edward B. Widtney for appellee.
eral was on his brief.

Mr. Solicitor Gen-

.r.- James L. Bishop by leave of court filed a brief on
behalf of William J. Butterfield and others.
MR. CHiEF JUSTIO.

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
Complainants sought by this bill to enjoin an officer of the
United States from the discharge of duties expressly imposed
upon him by an act of Congress on the ground of its uncon-"
stitutionality. We are clear that its averments did not justify
such an interference with executive action.
In -Noble.v. Union River Zogging Railroad Comany, 147
U. S. 165, the jurisdiction was sustained, but the Government
raised no point as to the form of the remedy, and deprivation
of a vested legal right of pr6perty, acquired before any suggestion that it could be taken aw.y, was there threatened.
And it appeared that the only remedy was through equity
interposition. New Ortleans v. Paine, 14:7 U. S. 261, 264.
But we are unwilling to extend that precedent.
It is settled that the mere fact that a law is unconstitutional
does not entitle a party to relief by injunction against proceedings in compliance therewith, but it must appear that he
has no adequate remedy by the ordinary processes of the law
or that the case falls under some recognized head of equity
jurisdiction.. Shelton v. Platt, 139 U. S. 591; Allen v. Pullman's Palace Car "lompany, 139 U. S. 658; Pacific Express
Company v. Seibert, 142 U. S. 339; Pittsburg &c. Railway
.Company v. Board of PublicWorks, 172 U. S. 32; Arkansas
Building & Loan Association v..KAacden, 115 U. S. 269. As

'CRUICKSHA1NK v. BIDWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

remarked by Mr. Justice Bradley in tew York Guaray Co.
v. -Memphis Water Co., 107 U. S. 205, 214, the sixteenth section
of the Judiciary Act of 1789, now section 723 of the Revised
Statutes, declaring)" that suits in equity shall not be sustained
in either of the courts of the United States in any ease where
plain, adequate and complete remedy may be had at law"
"certainly means something; and if only declaratory of what
was always the law, it must, at least have been intended to
emphasize the rule, and to impress it upon the attention of
the courts."
Inadequacy of remedy at law exists where the case made
demands preventive relief, as, for instance, the preventioil of
multiplicity of suits, or the prevention of irreparable injury.
The one head is well illustrated by Union Pacifio:Railway
Company v. Cheyenne, 113 U. S. 516, and Smyth v. Amee, 169
U. S. 466, 517; and the other by Watson v. Sutherland,.5
Wall. 74; cited by counsel.
But this bill does not aver, nor does it appear, that there
would be any.multiplicity of suits if complainants were left to
their remedy at law.
The sole ground of equity jurisdiction put forward is the
inadequacy of remedy at law in that the injury threatened is
not susceptible of complete compensation in damages. The
mere assertion that the apprehended acts will inflict irrepargble injury is not enough.. Facts must be alleged from which
the court can reasonably infer that such would be the result,
and in this particular we think the bill fatally defective.
The matter in dispute was averred to be "the value of the
said teas and .the right to import teas."
Confessedly the value of these teas was known, and their
destruction capable of being compensated by recovery at law.
The official character of the collector, the provisiofis of the
act, and the regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury in
execution thereof would not constitute a defence, if the act
were unconstitutional. There was no intimation that the collector would be unable to respond in judgment, and, moreover,
section 989 of the Revised Statutes provides- that when a
recovery is had in any suit or proceeding against a collector
VOL. c=i-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

for any act done by him, probable cause being certified, "the
amount recovered shall, upon final judgment, be provided for
and paid out of the proper appropriation from the Treasury."
ThAe Conqueror,166 U.-S. 110, 124.
Nor was there any averment of injury by reason.of the
condemnation of these teas other than the loss of the teas
themselves.
. The allegations in respect of apprehended deprivation of
the righi to import and deal in teas were that complainants
intended to import from time to time other invoices of teas
and that the collector threatened to take possessioni of and hold
them in the exercise of authority under the act of Congress in
the same manner as the .particular teas in question. This was
in effect to assert a vested right to import and deal in teas which
might be impuire, and unwholesome, and ivhich were at 'all
events, inferior to the uniform standards "of purity, quality
and fitness for consumption" fixed by the Secretary. .The law
does not prohibit the importation of teas coming up to the
standards, and it is difficult to perceive the elements of irreparable injury in the denial of permission to import inferior
teas.
Manifestly the seizure of importations of teas purchased
after the approval of the act and the est.blishment of reguIations and standards thereunder, publicly promulgated and
known to complainants, because falling below the standardd
p .escribed, could inflict no other injury than what it must be
assumed was anticipated, and the interposition of a court of
equity cannot properly be invoked, under such circumstances,
to d6termine in advance whether complainants, if they imported teas of that character, could escape the consequences
on the ground of the invalidity of the law.
As no tenable basis for equity interposition was shown, the
decree of, the Circuit Court dismissing the bill was rightly
entered.
Decree ajffirmed.

