SOUTHERN RAILWAY v. CARNEGIE STEEL CO.

257

Syllabus.

feiture of the entire grant did not preclude a forfeiture of
a part of it.
We think, therefore, a further investigation on the partic-

ular point. indicated is -required by the Circuit Court, and
return the case for such investigation.
The decree of the Circuit Cour~of Appeals is reversed, and
the case remanded to the 'Circuit Court "withdirections to
proceedin accordance with this opinion.

8-7f 1783131
176 3161

SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. CARNEGIE
STEEL COMPANY..
OERTiORABI TO THE ciRcurr COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH1
CIROUiT.
No. 8. Argued October 13,14, 1898. -Decded January 29,1900.
In a decree for the foreclosure and sale of a railroad property under a mortgage, power was reserved by the court to compel the purchaser to pay
any and all receivers' debts or claims adjudged or to be adjudged as prior
in lien or equity to the mortgage debts or entitled to preference in payment out of the .proceeds of sale. Held, That the rights of creditors
whose claims had been filed were not affected by the sale of the property
oi'by the fact of its transfer to the purchaser; -nor did the reservation
in the order of sale prevent the purchaser from contesting upon their
merits any claims allowed after the'purchase under the decree of sale.
A railroad mortgagee when accepting his security impliedly agrees that the
current debts of a railroad company contracted in the ordinary course of
Its business shall'be paid out of current receipts before h has any claim
upon such Income; that, within this rule, .a debt not contracted upon the
personal credit of the company, but in order to keep the railroad itself
in condition to be used with reasonable safety for the transportation of
persons and property, and with the expectation of the parties that it was
to be met out of the current receipts of the company, may be treated as
a current debt; that whether the debt was contracted upon the personal
credit of the company, without any reference to its receipts, is to be
determined in each case by the amount of the debt, the time and terms
of payment, and all other circumstances attending the transaction; and
that when current earnings are used for the benefit of mortgage creditors
before current expenses are paid, the mortgage security is chargeable in
equity with the restoration of the funds thus improperly diverted from
their primary use.
VOL. cLxxvI-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.
A general, unsecured creditor of an insolvent railroad corporation in the
hands of a receiver is not entitled to priority over mortgage creditors in
the distribution of net earnings simply because thait which he furnished
to the company prior to the appointment of the receiver was for tjhe
preservation of the property and the benefit of the mortgage securities.
Before such a creditor is accorded a preference over mortgage creditors
In the distribution of net earnings in the hands of a receiver of a railroad
company, it should reasonably appear, from all the circumstances, that
-the debt was one to be fairly regarded as part of the operating expenses
of the railroad incurred in the ordinary course of business and to be met
out of current receipts.

THis case is here upon a writ of certiorari for the review of

a final decree of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Fourth Circuit allowing certain claims of the Carnegie
Steel Company, Limited, as preferential debts chargeable upon
current receipts arising from the operation of certain railroad
properties in the hands of receivers.
On the 15th day of June, 1892, William P. Clyde, John C.
Maben and William H. Goadby, citizens of New York, suing
for themselves and other creditors and stockholders of the
Richmond and Danville Railroad Company and of other de-'
fendant corporations, exhibited in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District qf Virginia a.bill of
complaint against the Richmond and Danville Railroad Company and the Richmond and West Point Terminal Railway
and Warehouse Company, Virginia corporations. The bill
made the following case:
The RichMond and Danville Railroad Company (hereafter
called the' Danville Company), in addition to its own line
extending from Richmond to- Danville, with a twelve-mile
branch, .being 152 miles of road, through the purchase or
the acquisition of stock, or by written lease or operating
contracts, obtained the possession and control of more than
twenty other railways built under the respective charters of
and owned by the corporations named in the bill. It also
owned the entire capital stock of the Baltimore, Chesapeake
and Richmond Steamboat Company, and through it operated
a line of steamers between Richmond, West Point and Baltimore. Its authorized and outstanding capital stock was five

SOUTHERN RAILWAY v. CARNEGIE STEEL. CO.

259

Statement of the Case.

million dollars, the larger part beirg owned by its codefendant company.
The lines of railway comprising this system, known as the
Danville system, were in Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama and Mississippi, and reached many'of
the most important trade centres of those States.
For more than five years prior to the institution of that suit
the Danville Company had held in possession and substantial
control all the railways of the other companies in connection
with its own road as a single system. Over a large portion
of the mileage the engines and cars in traffic service were used
without any fixed, apportionment thereof to any specific portion of the system, and the income deriied from the operations
of the parent and auxiliary leased and operated lines were -eceived and distributed through a common treasury with no
separation of the earnings and expenses of the several properties, except by entries in books of account apportioning the
gross income and expenses on some approximate but arbitrary
basis of division as between the different lines over which the
traffic yielding the revenue had passed.
The total mileage of the auxiliary portion of the Danville*
railroad, added to its own mileage, aggregated 3320 miles,
exclusive of its steamer service.
The aggregate outstanding capital stock of the lines constituting the system, together with the stock of the steamboat
company, amounted t6 $43,482,950, of which $10,707,354 'vas
neither owned nor controlled by the defendant companies.
Through the ownership of all or a majority of the stock
thereof, some of the roads were operated by the Danville
Company as proprietary lines. Others were operated upon
the basis of a fixed rental or payment of net earnings, or a
guarantee of interest on bonds or dividends of stock, or both.
In consequence of the absorption of such roads in its system
by lease or'contract, the bonded debts and rental obligations
which the Danville Company had assumed and became liable
for amounted to $71,128,126.
Its own direct bonded debt
was $16,136,000, making the total bonded and rental debt of
the Danville system $87,314,126.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

The bonded debt resting on the Danville road proper and
equipments was in five separate issues of securities; that
resting on its auxiliary and operative lines was embraced in
fifty-nine different classes of securities issued by the several
companies, secured by separate mortgages or deeds of trust
covering different sections of the controlled roads or their
equipment, capable of separate default or foreclosure, besides
five stock guarantees, representing certain of its rental obligations, also secured by provisions for reentry on default.
The Danville Qompany alsb had outstanding car trust obligations of its own and leased lines amounting to $1,54:2,824,
and a floating debt of over $5,000,000; also an emergency
loan of $600,000, advanced by those interested in the property
to prevent default on April 1, 1892.
Besides all such outstanding fixed liabilities on account of
its own road and contrblled lines, the directors of the Danville
Cdmpany had pledged its credit and subjected: it to other
heavy liabilities, to enable its codefendant, the Richmond and
West Point Terminal Railway and Warehouse Company to be hereafter referred to as the Terminal Company- or
certain of its controlled companies to acquire the stock control of other lines of railroads not directly connected 'with
or operated by the Danville Company and in which it had no
interest whatever. ' Its board of directors had issued $6,000,000
of bonds of the Danville Company, executed jointly and
severally with the East Tennessee, Virginia and Georgia
Company, and guaranteed by the Terminal Company "Cincinnati Extension Bonds," which were secured by a trust pledge
of preference and ordinar7r shares of the Alabama and Great
Southern Railway Company, Limited. Those bonds had been
sold in open market, and apparently constituted an outstanding liability of the Danville Company, but for which it received no valuable consideration whatever. It had executed
the same as mere accommodation paper and as a partnership adventure, and was only protected against loss by the
above pledge of corporate stock of uncertain value, because
it was subject to heavy prior mortgage debts, and the line of
road of the particular corporation issuing such stock was a

SOUTHERN RAILWAY v. CARNEGIE STEEL CO.

261

Statement of the Case.

central link in the system of the East Tennessee Railway
system over which the Danville Company had no control
whatever.
By reason of the absolute stock control which the Terminal
Company had over the Danville Company it compelled the
latter company about June 1, 1891, to become the assignee
and guarantor of a written lease executed by the Central
Railroad and Banking Company of Georgia, of all its system
of railroads and steamer lines for a long term of years to the
Georgia Pacific Railway Company, whereby the Danville
Company became bound to operate the Central System and
to assume and pay all the interest on the bonded debts and
all the rental obligations of the Central Railroad and Banking
Company; and the Danville Company was compelled to execute
and deliver a bond of $1,000,000 to faithfully perform all the
covenants in such lease. The result of the operation of the
Central-Georgia system of roads had been a constant and
heavy loss-to the Danville Company.
The bill next set out the relations between the Danville
Company and the Terminal Company, and also described
what is known as the Tennessee system, having 2318 miles
in length of proprietary, leased and operated roads..
It then stated that the five several issues of bonds of the
Danville Company were secured by mortgages to divers
trustees and constituted liens of varying rank upon some
portion of its road, franchises and equipment; that the bonds
issued by the Danville and Terminal Companies, as well as a
large majority of the several issues of bonds resting on the
different separately iortgaged sections of the Danville system, were owned by.a large and constantly shifting number
of persons and corporations, who were scattered in many different States and countries and had no organization or registration; that what, was' known as the emergency loan, for
which the income of the Danville system was pledged, was
advanced in equal sums by a considerable number of persons,
many of whom preferred not to have their names or advances
disclosed; that the plaintiff, Maben,. was a registered stockholder of the Danville Company; that the plaintiffs were

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

owners of a large amount of the common preferred stock of
the Terminal Company and of its six and five per cent bonds,
of the Danville Company's debenture and five per cent bonds
and of different classes 6f bonds resting on partg of the Danville system, and some of them were creditors of the Danville
Company on account of advances made to the emergency loan,
and entitled to the security given therefor ;.that while nominally distinct corporations, the actual transactions and financial arrangements between the Terminal Company, conducting
no active business as a security company, with no assets except
stocks and bonds, (but holding nearly the entire capital stock
of the Danville Company,) and the Danville Company, as a
corporation, operating a large system of railways, separately
organized and mortgaged, had resulted in serious complications; that such community of heavy and extra-hazardous
liability and hypothecation indissolubly connected the financial operations of the Danville and Terminal Companies, so
that the unrelieved embarrassment of either company would
necessarily force the insolvency of the other, "and produce a
disruption of the system of roads;" that the then financial
condition of the two defendant corporations was alarming to
the holders of their stocks and bonds; that in the latter part
of 1891 the large and increasing floating debts of the several
properties in which the Terminal Company was interested
and the heavy losses incurred in the operations of some of the
roads, created much uneasiness among the stockholders and
creditors; that by reason of such condition of things, the
management had invited prominent financiers to investigate
the several systems and aid in perfecting the best plan for
permanently adjusting the affairs of the companies in question and secure them the credit necessary for their successful
operation; that two movements to that end had failed, when
about the last of May, 1899," a large number of security holders
joined in a request to an eminent banking firm of New York
City that it should investigate the property and its financial
condition, and undertake to rescue it from the bankruptcy,
shrinkage in value and disruption with which the system was
threatened;" that such bankers consented to cause an exami-

SOUTHERN RAILWAY v. CARNEGIE -STEEL CO.

263

Statement of the Case.

nation to be made, and the plaintiffs were advised that the
same was in progress, but that no conclusion bad been reached
or report made, and necessarily the creditors and security holders were so numerous, scattered and unknown, and the classes
of liens so varied in character and value, that to perfect*any
satisfactory plan to reorganize the system and secure the necessary creditors' assent would require considerable time; and
that in the meantime the financial embarrassments -continued
to be urgent and threatening, and the possible consequence
thereof might "result in the disfuption of the system, and
the depreciation of millions of dollars in the value of the
securities."
The bill further alleged that the enormous floating debt
of the Danville Company was wholly beyond its financial
ability to carry out of its ordinary revenues, over $4,500,000
of such debt standing in demand loans subject to summary
enforcement; that by reason of the depreciation in the
market value of its securities, and the failure of the several
efforts to reorganize the property, its credit had been much
impaired; it was not able to pay its obligations as they
matured, but had been forced to ask renewals; it had no
available collaterals to enable it to negotiate such a loan as
was necessary to adequately protect it against open default;
it had been forced to postpone payment of usual operating
expense vouchers for supplies, and was allowing heavy arrears
of such debts to accrue; many creditors had brought suits and
attached cars and funds forwarded to pay employ~s; besides
its floating debt, mortgage coupons on seventeen sectional
mortgages, aggregating $989,000, would fall due on July 1;
1892; it had no available money or assets wherewith to pay
the debts which would soon mature and no reasonable hope
of financial assistance from any quarter to enable it to do so;
its directors had had no meeting for over two months, and
had practically abdicated their trust and power of management and confessed their utter inability to devise means to
divert the insolvency and disruption of the system in their
charge.
Plaintiffs charged that the corporation was insolvent and

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

this vast trust property was substantially derelict; that the
unity of the property, as held and operated as an important
trunk line, constituted one of the most important ingredients
of its value, and that to permit its severance would result in
a ruinous sacrifice to every interest in the property; that the
owned and operated lines of road lie in six States, and were
subject to the jurisdiction of the courts in each of the many
counties in which, the property was situate; that unless the
court, in view of the impending and inevitable defaults as
aforesaid, would deal with -Q6 property as a single trust fund,
and take it into judicial custody for the protection of every
interest therein, individual creditors, immediately upon default,
would assert their remedies in different courts in the several
States; that a race of diligence would result, and judgments
and priorities attempted; that levies and attachments would
be laid upon the engines and cars of the company, and upon
the fuel, material and supplies indispensable to the operations
of the road and which would greatly interfere and ultimately
prevent the company from properly discharging its duties as
a public carrier, and seriously diminish the earnings of the
road; that lessors of the roads now owned would enforce the
reentry covenants of their leases; that the continued default
of the mortgaged debts would produce the immediate maturity of the bonds; and that "a vast and unnecessary multiplicity of suits will result, and a most important and valuable
trust property will be dismembered by the clashing decrees
of the many courts exercising jurisdiction at the suit of separate creditors, which might be shielded and preserved as a
valuable single trust property by adequate judicial protection
until such time as a satisfactory financial reorganization could
be perfected."
The plaintiffs also averred "that the Central Trust Company
is not only the trust depository in the said pledge of incoine,
but is the trustee in over twelve trust deeds executed by the
Danville Company -and divers roads in its system, and alsb
trustee for the preferred stockholders dnd 6% and 5% trust
deeds of the Terminal Company. That the trusts and duties
in said different deeds as to property, equipiihent. and. income

SOUTHERN RAILWAY v. CARNEGIE-STEEL CO.

265

Statement of the Case.

are variant,- and in some respect antagonistic. In case of default and judicial enforcement, their reciprocal rights will have
to be construed and decreed by the court, and such common.
trustee cannot properly represent such variant trusts; and the
bondholders have the equity to apply in their own names to
protect the trust estate."
The relief asked was That the court would decree that the plaintiffs as holders
of aliquot portions of the emergency loan to the Danville
Company, guaranteed by the Tenihinal Company, had a fixed
and specific lien upon all and singular the income, tolls and
revenues of the Danville Company and ,its leased, operated
and controlled railroads, and each of them, and that the
condition of such pledge of income had been broken, entitling the holders of such indebtedness to enforcement thereof;
That the court would also administer the trust fund in which
the plaintiffs were interested, constituting the entire railroad
and assets of the defendant corporations, and would for that
purpose marshal all their assets and ascertain the respective
liens and priorities existing upon every part of such system
of railways, the amount due upon mortgages and other liens,
and enforce and decree the rights, liens and equities of each
and all of the stockholders and creditors of the Danville and
Terminal Companies as the same were finally ascertained and
decreed, in and to not only those lines of railroads, appurtenances and equipments, but also to and upon every portion of
the assets and property of each of those corporations; and
That for the purpose of enforcing a lien and equity upon
the income of the railroad system aforesaid, -to which the
holders of the emergency loan were by contract entitled, "as
well as to preserve the unity of said system," as it had been
for years maintained and operated, and preventing the disruption thereof by separate executions, attachments or sequestrations, the occurrerice of which would be inevitable in view
of the defaults in interest payments which would presently
occur, the court would forthwith appoint one or, more receivers of the entire system of railroads and steamers-held and
operated by the Danville Company, together. with all equip-

OCTOBER TERM; 1899.
Statement of the Case.

ment, material, machinery, supplies, moneys, accotmts, choses
in action and assets of every description and wherever situated,
together with all leasehold rights and contracts, with authority to manage and operate the same as the officers of and
under the direction of the court, and that all the officers,
managers, superintendents and employ6s of the Danville Company be required to forthwith deliver up the possession of all
and singular each and every part of the property, over which
th*e receivers were thus appointed, wherever situate, and also
all books of accounts, offices, vouchers and papers in any way
rejating to the business or operation of such system of railways and steamers, and for injunctions restraining each and
every of the officers, directors, managers, superintendents,
agents and employ~s of the Danville Company from interfering in any way whatever with the possession and control of
the receivers over any part of the property.
Upon hearing and considering, the bill, with the exhibits
and answer in support thereof, and on motion of the complainants, Frederic W. Huidekoper and Reuben Foster were
appointed by the, court receivers of the property and assets
of the Danville .Company, namely, the system of railways then
in the possession of and owned and controlled by that corporation, situated in the District of Columbia and in the States
of Yirginia, North and South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama
and Mississippi, together with all the equipment, shops, appurtenances of every kind, machinery, material and supplies
owned, held or in the lossession and use of. such corporation,
wherever situate, including all tracks, terminal facilities, real
estate, warehouses, offices, stations and all other buildings of
every kind, owned, held or possessed by the Danville Company, togqther with all steamers, wharves .and other properties held in connection therewith, and all moneys, choses in
action, credits, bonds, stocks,- leasehold interests or operating
contracts%and other assets of every kind, and all other property, real, personal and mixed, owned, held or possessed by
that company.
It was further provided in the order of the court that the
receivers "shall, from time to time, out of the funds coming

SOUTHERN RAILWAY v. CARNEGIE -STEEL CO.

267

Statement of the Case.
into their hands from the operation of the property, pay the
expense of operating the same and executing their trusts, and
all taxes and assessments upon the said property or any part
thereof, and also pay and discharge all such traffic and car
mileage balances as may be due to connecting and other railways, and all such loss and damage claims arising from the
previous operation of said property as, in their judgment, on
examination, are proper to be paid as expenses of operation;
and shall also, out of the moneys coming into their hands,
pay and discharge all the current uupaid pay rolls and vouchers
and supply accounts incurred in the operations of said railroad
system, at any time within six months prior hereto."
The receivers, who are referred to in the record as the.
insolvency receivers, entered into full and exclusive possession
on the 16th day of June, 1892.
On that and the succeeding day auxiliary suits were instituted by the plaintiffs against the Danville Company in the
Circuit Courts of the United States for the Western District
of 'North Carolina, the District of South Carolina, the Northern District of Georgia, the Northern District of Alabama and
the Northern District of Mississippi, and orders were duly_
entered of record by each of those courts confirming the original appointment of receivers and recognizing the Circuit
Court of the Eastern District of Virginia as having primary
jurisdiction over all the railroad system and property of the
Danville Company wherever situated.
On the 28th day of June, 1892, the plaintiffs filed a petition
in the cause, stating that the Central Trust Company of New
York was trustee in five mortgages executed by the Danville
Company, resting upon its property, and of the following
dates and amounts: October 5,1874, $5,997,000; February
1, 1882, $3,368,000; October 22, 1886, $1,498,000; September
3, 1889, $1,390,000; May 1, 1891, $883,000. The petitioners
prayed that the receivers be authorized to eA ute and sell
receivers' certificates to an amount not exceeding $1,000,000,
which should be .a first lien on the Richmond and Danville
Railroad, its property, leasehold interests, contracts and income, "and out of the proceeds, as a special fund, to pay and

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

discharge all outstanding indebtedness of the Danville Company incurred for material and supplies in the operation of
the roads in the receivers' hands, which were purchased within
six months prior to June 15, 1892, as the said indebtedness

shall be ascertained and reported on by special niasters to be
appointed for such purpose; and also, that out of the funds
coming into their hands from the operation of the roads which
could be safely used without prejudice to their own current
liabilities for operating expenses, the receivers be authorized
to pay the instalments of rent and coupons of mortgage bonds
resting "upon the several parts of the system, so as to protect
and preserve the present unity of the system of roads in their
charge." The petition concluded: "The Central Trust Company is the trustee in each and all of the trust deeds and mortgages, and it is made a party hereto, so that it can appear to
the application and be heard upon the question of using
receivers? certificates, and authorizing the payment of mortgage, interest and rental obligations out of the current net
-income of the receivership."
Of the application for an order in accordance with the
.petition, the defendants and the Central Trust Company had
notice. The court by order authorized the borrowing of
$1,000,000 receiver's certificates to be used for the purposes
indicated in the petition. The Trust Company 'vas represented at the hearing of the application; and so far as the
record discloses, made no objection to the order.
On the 13th day of July, 1892, the Central Trust Company presented its petition and prayed that it be allowed to
intervene in the suit brought by Clyde and others for the
protection of the holders of the six per cent bonds of the
Danville Company and of the subscribers. to the emergency
loan made prior to April 1, 1892, and in respect of which that
company was the trust depositary of the income of the Danville system pledged to secure such loan; and by order entered
August 16, 1892, leave was given for that company to intervene in the cause, "on the condition that it hereby submits to
the several orders heretofore entered herein." On the latter
day that company presented its petition, asking that Huide-

SOUTHERN R AILWAY v. CARNEGIE. STEEL CO.

269

Statement of the Case.
koper and Foste? be appointed as permanent receivers of the
Danville Compatly, if the court should determine to continue
its judicial possession of the system. An order to that effect
was accordingly made. In presenting the above petition the
Central Trust Company appeared not only as trustee of the
Richmond and Danville Railroad Company and the consolidated gold mortgage to be presently referred to, but as trustee repres.enting other mortgages and railroads, including the.
Virginia Midland Railroad, the Georgia Pacific Railway, and
the North Eastern Railroad of Georgia.
On the 19th day of December, 1892, an intervening petition
was presented by parties representing the underlying bondholders interested in any litigation or proceedings for the
foreclosure of any of the mortgage or trust deeds of the Danville Company or any of the companies forming a part of the
Danville system, and they were permitted to become parties
complainant in the Clyde suit and to file such petitions and'
take such proceedings as they deemed necessary or requisite
for the protection-of the interests they represented.
In the suit instituted by Clyde and others, the Carnegie
Steel Company, Limited, filed with the Master Commissioner,
October 14, 1892, its claims arising out of certain contracts
made between that company and the Danville Railroad Company in 1891 for steel rails delivered to the latter between
July 25, 1891, and October 10, 1891. The facts relating to
those contracts will be hereafter stated.
On the 13th day of April, 1894, the Central Trust Company
of New York instituted a separate suit against the Richmond
and Danville Railroad Company for the foreclosure of what is
known as the consolidated gold mortgage. Upon the filing,
of that petition, and on the motion of the Trust Company, an,
order was entered appointing Huidekoper, Foster and Spencer
receivers of the court of all and singulqr the railroads, property, assets, credits and effects of the Richmond and Danville
Railroad Company, "the same being, the system of railways
owned, operated or controlled by the said corporation, situate in the District of Columbia and in.the States of Virginia,
North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama and .Mis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

sissippi, together with all the equipment, shops," etc., "and
other assets of every kind, and all other property, real, personal
and mixed, held or possessed by the said railroad company,
the above-mentioned property being now in the possession, of
said Frederic W. Huidekoper and Reuben Foster, receivers
duly appointed by this court in a certain suit brought in this
court and now pending therein, wherein William P. Clyde and
others are plaintiffs and the Richmond and Danville Railroad
Company and others are defendants." These receivers are
described in the record as the foreclosure receivers.
The order last named contained this clause:
"Nothing in this order contained shall be construed to
vacate any of the orders heretofore entered in the case of
William P. Clyde and others; but the court reserves full
power to act upon the masters' reports filed in the said cause,
and in said cause to adjudge and decree upon the rights of
creditors ascertaining [asserting] a claim against the property
of the said railroad company or income thereof, in preference
to the mortgage debt thereof, by orders to be entered in the
said suit of William P. Clyde and others, .upon notice to
parties, with like effect upon the mortgaged property and
income as if such orders were entered in this cause."
The Carnegie Company was permitted to intervene in the
-suit brought by the Central Trust Company, alleging in its
petition that the rails sold and delivered by it to the Danville Company were used upon its roadbed for the purpose
of imfaintaining the same in condition to conduct its traffic
thereon and were necessary for that purpose. The claimants referred to the fact that they had previously filed their
claim in the Clyde suit, "which claim is now pending in said
-cause before the masters, the demand of your petitioner that
the same shall be allowed as a claim entitled to equitable
priority of payment over the mortgage debt of the said defendant not having been heard or considered by said masters."
On the 11th day'of February, 1894, the suit instituted by
the Central Trust Company of New York and the one brought
by Clyde and others were consolidated under the name of
iTe Central Tru8t Oompany of New York and othkr8 v.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY v. CARNEGIE STEEL CO.

271

Statement of the Case.

The Richmond and Danville Railroad Company and others,
Consolidated Cause." Upon application of the Carnegie Coinpany it was made a party defendant in the' consolidated
cause.
A decree of foreclosure and sale in the consolidated cause
was entered April 13, 1894, and a sale took place June 15,
18941, the property embraced by the decree being sold as a
unit. Charles H. Coster and Anthony J. Thomas, a purchasing committee, as joint tenants purchased the property for the
use, benefit and behoof of a corporation to be organized pursuant to the terms of an act of the General Assembly of
Virginia, approved February 20, 1894, entitled "An act
authorizing the purchasers- of the Richmond and Danville
Railroad, their assigns and successors, to become-and be a
corporation."
The sale was approved by formal order of
court and confirmed to the purchasing committee, composed
of Coster and Thomas, for the sole use, benefit and behoof
of the Southern Railway Company created under the laws of
Virginia.
The decree of confirmation contained the following clauses:
"And the court accepts the said Southern Railway Company
as the purchaser of all and singular the railroad, property and
franchises sold under this decree, and holds it as such purchaser obligated to complete and fully to pay the said bid and
comply with all the orders of the court already entered, and
hereafter, from time to time, to be entered. by it obligatory
on such purchaser. And the court furthbr reserves full power
from time to time to enter orders binding upon the said Southern Railway Company as such purchaser, requiring it to pay
into the registry of the court all such sums as have been" or
may be ordered by the court for the payment of any and all
receivers' debts or claims adjudged or to be adjudged as prior
in lien or equity to the mortgage herein foreclosed, or entitled
to preference in payment out of the proceeds of sale." That
order also contained this clause: "The court reserves full
power notwithstanding such conveyance and delivery of possession to retake and resell the property this day confirmed to
such purchaser if it fails or neglects fully to complete such

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
-Statement of the Case.

purchase and comply with the orders of court in respect to
full compliance therewith, or to pay into court, in accordance
with such decree of sale and orders of court, all sums of money
h1ereafter ordered by the court to be paid into its registry to
discharge any and all such debts, liens or .claims as it may
decree ought to be paid out of the proceeds of. sale in prefe-"
ence to the mortgage herein foreclosed."
Subsequently, upon hearing of the exceptions to the masters'
report on the claim of the Carnegie Steel ,ompany, Limited,
the Circuit Court found that that company furnished to .the
railroad company, at the dates and in the quantities named in
their petition for claim, steel rails to the aggregate value of
$125,067.39, which the company used and agreed to pay for,
and that the interest on that amount was $29,828.58; in all,
$154,895.97. It further found that that sum had never been
paid by the railroad company; that "the earnings of said
defendant railroad company, which should have been used for
the payment of current expenses, including therein this claim,
have been used for the benefit of mortgage creditors, in a sum
more than sufficient to pay said claim in full;" and that
"prior to May 1, 1888, bonds of the Richmond and Danville
Railroad Company known as consolidated bonds were issued
to the amounit of $1,621,000, and that since that date such
bonds have been issued to the amount of $2,906,000." _And
it was adjudged that the claim, with interest thereon from the
time when the respective items thereof became due and payable by the Danville Company, was entitled to priority of pay-.
ment out of the funds resulting from the sale of the mortgaged
property, over the bonds secured by the mortgage foreclosed
by the decree heretofore passed in this cause, and was also
entitled by reasbn also of the statutes of Virginia "to priority
of payment out of the fund resulting from the sale of the
mortgaged property, over such of the bonds secured by the
mortgage foreclosed b7 the decree heretofore passed in this
cause as were issued after May 1, 1888, being $2,906,000 in
amount." It was further ordered that "the purchaser at the
sale heretofore made, or his assigns, do forthwith pay to the
Carnegie Steel Company, Limited, said sum of $154,895.97, in

SOUTHERN RAILWAY v. CARNEGIE STEEL CO.

273

Opinion of the Court.

compliance with the terms of the decree of sale heretofore
passed, whereby the purchaser at such sale, or his assigns, war
required to pay off and satisfy all claims filed in this cause,
which this court should adjudge prior to the mortgage by said
decree foreclosed."
The Southern Railway Company prosecuted an appeal from
that order to the Circhit Court of Appeals, and the action of
the Circuit Court was approved. 42 U. S. App. 145; 76 Fed.
Rep. 492. The case is in this court upon certiorari, sued out
by the railway company.
.Mr. Henry C'awford and 2fr. Edward J. Pelps for appellant. .Mr. Millis B. Smith was on their brief.
Air. .Nic1holas P. Bond and
r'. David Willcox for appellees. M7. P. C. .Knox was on their bri~f.
MR. JUsTIcE HArLAN, after stating the facts as above, delivered the opinion of the court.
It appears from the above statement that the property in
the hands of the receivers in the Clyde or insolvency suit was
surrendered to the receivers in the foreclosure suit under anl
order that expressly reserved power in the court to adjudge
and decree in the Clyde suit upon the rights of creditors
asserting claims against the property of the railroad company or its income in preference to mortgage debts. Besides,
the decree of sale provided that the purchaser or purchasers,
or his or their assigns, under any decretal sale should, as a
part of the consideration, in addition to any sum. bid, take
the property upon the express condition that he or they
would pay and satisfy (amnong other specified claims) all
claims theretofore "iled in this case or in either of the causes
consolidated herein, but only when said court shall allow such
claims and adjudge the same to be prior in lien or superior in
.equity to the mortgage foreclosed in. this suit, and in accordance with the order or orders of the court allowing such claims
and adjudging with respect thereto." And the right was disVOL. CLxxVI-18

0CTOBER TERMI, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

tinctly reserved to retake and resell the property in case the
purchaser or purchasers, or his or their assigns, failed ,or
neglected to comply with the order of court in respect of the
payment of such prior liens. These conditipns were repeated
in the order confirming the sale. So that the right of the
Carnegie Company to have its claims determined upon their
merits is not at all affected by the sale of the property held
by the, receivers in the consolidated cause, or by the fact of
its transfer to the Southern Railway Company. And we add
that the above reservation in the orders and decree of the Circuit Court left it open for the Southern Railway Company to
contest, upon their merits, any claims allowed after its purchase under the decree of sale.
The respective rights of the mortgagees of a railroad company and of parties having claims against it at the time its
property passed into the hands of receivers have been frequently the subject of cbnsideration by this court. But as
counsel differ as to the scope and effect of former decisions,
it is necessary to examine them and ascertain whether those
decisions embrace the case now before the wourt.
The leading case is Fosdick v. Schall, 99 U.S. 235, 252, 253,
which related to a claim against a railroact company for rent
of cars. In that case Chief Justice Waite delivered the unanimous judgment of the court. After observing that- the business of all railroad companies was done to a greater or less
extent on credit, and that this credit'was longer or shorter as
the necessities of the case required said: "The income out of
which the mortgagee is to be oid is the net income obtained
by deducting from the gro=earnings *hat is required for
necessary operating and managing expenses, proper equipment
.and useful improvements. Every railroad mortgagee in accepting his security impliedly agrees that the current debts
made in the ordihiary course of business shall be paid from the
current receipts before he has any .claim upon the income. If
"for the convenience'of the moment something is taken from
what may not improperly be called the current debt fund,
and put into that which. belongs to the mortgage creditors, it
ce'rtainly is not inequitable for the court, when asked by the

SOUTHERN RAILWAY v. -CARNEGIE STEEL CO.

275

Opinion of the Court.

mortgagees to take possession of the future income and hold
it for their benefit, to require as a condition of such an order
that what is due from the earnings to the current debt shall
be paid by the court from the future current receipts before
anything derived from that source goes to the mortgagees. In
this way the court will only do what, if a receiver should not
be appointed, the company ought itself to do. For even
though, the mortgage may in terms give a lien upon the
profits and income, until possession of the mortgaged premises is actually taken or something equivalent (lone, the whole
earnings belong to the company and are subject to its control." The court further said: "The mortgagee has his strict
rights which he may enforce in the ordinary way. If he asks
no favors he need grant none. But if he calls upon a court
of chancery to put forth its extraordinary powers and grant
him'purely equitable relief, he may with propriety be required
to submit to the operation of a rule which applies in such
cases, and do equity in order to get equity. The appointment
of a receiver is not a matter of strict right. Such an application calls for the exercise of judicial discretion; and the
chancellor should so mould his order that while favoring one
injustice is not done to another. If this cannot be accomplished the application should ordinarily be denied. We
think also that if no such order is made when the receiver
is appointed, and it appears in the progress of the cause that
bonded interest has been paid, additional equipment provided,
or lasting and valuable improvements made out of earnings
which ought in equity to have been employed to keep down
debts for labor, supplies and the like, it is within the power
of the court to use the income from the receivership to discharge obligations which, but for the diversion of funds,
would have been paid in the ordinary course of business.
This, not because the creditors to whom such debts are due
have in law a -lien upon the mortgaged property or the
income, but because, in a sense, the officers of the company
are trustees of the earnings for the benefit of the different
classes of creditors and stockholders; and if they give to one
class of creditors thit which properly belongs to another, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

court may, upon an adjustment of the accounts, so use the
income which comes into its ovwn hands as, if practisable, to
restore the parties to their original equitable rights. .While,
ordinarily, this power is confined to the appropriation of the
income of the receivership and the proceeds of moneyed assets
that have been taken from the company, cases may arise where
equity will require the use of the proceeds of the sale of the
No fixed and
1
N
mortgaged property in the same way.
inflexible rule can be laid down for the government of the
courts in all cases. Each case will necessarily have its own
peculiarities, which must to a greater or less extent influence
the chancellor when he comes to act. The power rests upon
the fact that in the administration of the affairs of the compary the mortgage creditors have got possession of that
which in equity belonged to the whole or a part of the general creditors. Whatever is done, therefore, must be with
a view to a restoration by the mortgage creditors of that
which they have thus inequitably obtained. It follows that
if there has been in reality no diversion, there can be no restoration; and that the amount of the restoration should be
made to depend upon the amount of the diversion. If in the
exercise of this power errors are committed, they, like others,
are open to correction on appeal. All depends upon A proper
application of well-settled rules of equity jurisprudence to the
facts of the case, as established by the evidence."
In Hale v. Frost, 99 U. S. 389, it appeared that a receiver
was appointed in a suit brought by trustees to foreclose mortgages executed by a railroad company. He was appointed
May 19, 1875, at which time the company owed employes
for back wages and was indebted for current supplies. To
the Union Car Spring Manufacturing Company it was indebted
for springs and spirals furnished in March and April before
the appointment of the receiver, and which he continued to
use. It was also indebted to Hale, Ayer & Co. for supplies
to the machinery department and for materials for construction purposes; and on the 13th day of February, 1873, a given
amount was due them, as evidenced by the notes of the railroad company falling due on that day. The judges who

SOUTHERN RAILWAY v. CARNEGIE STE.EL CO.

277

Opinion of the Court.

heard the base in the court of oiiginal jurisdiction. were
divided in opinion on the .following points made by intervening creditors: 1. That the railway hnortgage iias'a prior
lien only upon the net earnings of the road, after .the payment
of all the operating expenses, while the road was in'the possession of the company. 2. That after the default in the
payment of the interest November 1, 1873, the fact that the
mortgagees funded their coupon§ and- left the company in
.possession of the road constituted the company their agent
and trustee in equity, and they were estopped from objecting
to the payment from the earnings of the road of all legitimate debts contracted by the company for operating expenses. 3. That the net earnings of the road, while in the.
possession of the court and operated by its .receiver, were not
necessarily and exclusively the property of the mortgagees,
but were subject to the. disposal of the chancellor in the. payment of claims which had superior equities, if such should be
found to exist, and that the intervening petitioners' claims
had superior-equities to those of the mortgagees. The petitions were dismissed and the intervenors appealed. This court,
speaking by Chief Justice Waite said: "The first question
certified in this case is afiswered in the affirmative,, upon the
authority of Fosdick v. Schall. The third question is answered in the same way upon the same authority. The
Union Car Spring Manufacturing Company is entitled to payment in full, and H:ale, Ayer k Co. to payment of so much of
their claim only. as is for supplies to the machinery department. There is nothing- in the case to show any special
equities in their favor in respect to that part of their account
which is for material for construction purposes. An answer
to the second question is unnecessary."
In Burnhan v. Bowen, 111 U. S. 776, 780, 783, it appeared
that the trustees of a mortgage covering all the property of a
railroad* company and all the revenues and income thereof,
brought suit to foreclose the mortgage and had a receiver

appointed. In the order appointing the receiver no special.
provision was made for the payment of debts owing for current expenses. When the receiver took possession the rail-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

road company was indebted for coal used on locomotives - a
debt contracted by the company in the ordinary course of
a continuing business, and which would have been paid out
of current earnings at the time agreed on if the company had
remained in possession. The debt due the coal company was
evidenced by the acceptances of the railroad company, which
were for different amounts, maturing a month apart, thus implying, as this court said, monthly settlements of monthly'
accounts, with a somewhat extended credit to meet the business requirements of the railroad company. A decree was
entered finding the amount due to Bowen, the holder of the
acceptances, and declaring that the mortgaged property in
the hands of the trustees under the decree of foreclosure was
equitably bound for the payment thereof.
Chief Justice Waite, delivering the unanimous judgment of
this court, said: "In our opinion the view which the Circuit
Court took of this case was the correct one. The company
had never paid its bonded interest. From the very beginning
it was in default in thds particular, yet the mortgage trustees
suffered it to keep possession and manage the property. The
maintenance of the road and prosecution of its business were
essential to the preservation of the security of the bondholders. The business of every railroad company is necessarily done more or less on credit, all parties understanding
that current expenses are to be paid out of current earnings.
Consequently, it almost always happens that the current income is incumbered to a greater or less extent with current
debts made in the prosecution of the business out of which
the income is derived. As was said in Fosdick v. Schall, 99
U. S. 235, 252, ' the income [of a railroad company] out of
which the mortgagee is to be paid is the net income obtained
by deducting from the gross earnings what is required for
necessary operating and managing expenses, proper equipment and useful improvements. Every railroad mortgagee
in accepting his security impliedly agrees that the current
debts made in the ordinary course of business shall be paid
from the current receipts before he has any claim on the
income.' Such being the case, when a court of chancery, in

SOUTHERN RAILWAY v. CARNEGIE STEEL CO.

279

Opinion of the Court.

enforcing the rights of mortgage creditors, takes possession of
a mortgaged railroad and thus deprives the company of the
power of receiving any further earnings, it ought to do what
the company would have been bound to do if it had remained
in possession, that is to say, pay out of what it receives from
earnings all the debts which in equity and good conscience,
considering the character of the business, are chargeable upon
such earnings. In .other words, what may properly betermed
the debts of the income should be paid from the income before
it is applied in any way to the use of the mortgagees. The
business of a railroad should be treated by a court of equity
under such circumstances as a ' going concern,' not to be embarrassed by any unnecessary interference with the relations
of those who are engaged in or affected by-it. In the present
case, as wye have seen, the debt of Bowen was for current expenses and payable out of current earnings. It does not
appear from anything in the case that there was any other
liability on account of current expenses unprovided for when
the receiver took possession, and there is nothing whatever to
indicate that this debt would not have been paid at maturity
from the earnings if the court had not interfered at the
instance of the trustees for the protection of the mortgage
creditors."
It was contended in that case that no part of the income,
prior to the receiver's appointment, was used to pay mortgage
interest or to put permanent improvements on the property,
or to increase the equipment, and theref6re there was no such
diversion of the funds belonging in equity to the labor and
supply creditors as to make it proper to use the income of
the receivership to pay them. Touching that contention, this
court said: "The debt due Bowen was incurred to keep the
2'oad running, and thus preserve the security of the bond
creditors. If the trustees had taken possession under the
mortgage, they would have been subjected to similar expenses
to do what the company, with their consent and approbation,
was doing for them. There is nothing to show that the
receiver was appointed because of any misappropriation of
the earnings by the company. On the contrary, it is proba-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.*

ble, from the fact-that the large judgment for the right of
way was obtained about the same time the receiver was
appointed, that the change of possession was affected to avoid
anticipated embarrassments from that cause. Bat, however
that may be, there certainly is tio complaint of a diversion by
the company of the current earnings from the payment of
the current expenses. So far as anything appears on the record, the failure of the company to pay the debt to Bowen
was due alone to the fact that the expenses of running the
road and preserving the security of the bondholders were
greater than the receipts from the business. Under these circumstances we think the debt was a charge in equity on the
continuing income, as well as that which came into the hands
of the court after the receiver was appointed as that before.
When, therefore, the court took the earnings of the receivership and applied them to the payment of the fixed charges
on the railroad structures, thus increasing the security of the
bondholders at the expense of the labor and supply creditors,
there was such a diversion of what is denominated in Fosdick v. Schall the ' current debt fund,' as to make it proper
to require the mnortgagees to pay it back. So far as current
expense creditors are concerned, the court should use the
'income of the receivership in the way the company would
have been bound in equity and good conscience to use it if no
change in the possession had been made. This rule is in strict
accordance with the decision in Fosdick v. Schall, which we
see no reason to modify in any particular."
The opinion in that case thus concluded: "We do not now
hold, any more than we did in Fosdick v. Sckall or Huidekoper v. Locomotive WTbrk, 99 U. S. 258, 260, that the income
of a railroad in the hands of a receiver, for the benefit of
mortgage creditors who have a lien upon it under their mortgage, can be taken away from them and used to pay the genetal creditors of the road. All we then decided, and all we
now decide, is, that if the current earnings are used for the
benefit of mortgage creditors before current expenses are paid,
the mortgage security is chargeable in equity with the restoration of the fund which has been thus improperly. applied to
their use."

SOUTHERN RAILWAY v. CARNEGIE STEEL CO.

281

Opinion of the Court.

In Unior Trust Co. v. .orrisor, 125 U. S. 591, 609, 612,
the contest was between the mortgagees and Morrison who
had become surety in a bond given by an insolvent railroad
company which was harassed by suits in order to prevent a
levy by a sheriff upon its rolling stock. Subsequently a suit
was brought to'foreclose a mortgage upon the railroad. The
giving of the bond undoubtedly protected the company's property from seizure and enabled it to remain a going concern,
and saved it to the mortgagees. This court, speaking by Mr.
Justice Bradley, said: "Even if it [the rolling stock] would
have been subject to the mortgage, when taken on execution,
nevertheless it could have been taken,1 and this would necessarily have disturbed, and perhaps interrupted, the operations
of the railroad, by separating the property seized from the
corpus of the estate. The trustees of the mortgage might
have prevented such a catastrophe, it is true, by filing a bill
of foreclosure and for an injunction and receiver; but they
did not choose to take this course until nearly three years
afterwards; on the contrary, they allowed the railroad company to continue to use the property, and to take care of it
for them, and stood by and saw Morrison (who had no interest in the matter) put his hands into the fire and rescue the
rolling stock of which they were to receive the benefit - both
directly, by receiving the property itself without contest or
controversy, and indirectly, by keeping up the railroad as a
going concern. Morrison's money, or the fruits of it, has
gone into .their pockets. And, in this regard, we make no
distinction between the, mortgagees, the bondholders, whom
they represented, the nominal purchasers, Horsey and Canda,
or the present company. They were all one and the same in
interest. If the property becnfme justly affected by the equity
of the petitioner's claim, it remains so affected in the hands
of the present company." Referring to prior cases, and dis1 The constitution of Illinois of 1870, in which State the case arose,
declared, Article XI, § 10, that "1the rolling stock and other movable property belonging to any railroad company or corporation in this State shall
be considered personal property, and shall be liable to execution and sale in
the same manner as the personal property of individuals."

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the 6ourt.

claiming any purpose to modify the rule charging operating
expenses upon current earnings, the court said: "The present
claim is of a different character, based upon a bona fide effort
made by the intervenor to preserve the fund itself from waste
and spoliation after the mortgage was in arrear and the right
to reduce it to possession had accrued. But even here, as we
have seen, if the claimant could pursue only the earnings, it is
shbwn that they have been appropriated to the purchase of
property which has been added to the fund."
In St. Louis, Alton &c. RailoacZ v. Cleveland, Columbus
&c. Railway, 125 U. S. 658, 673, the court, speaking by Mr.
Justice Matthews, after stating that ordinarily the unsecured
debts of an insolvent railroad company cannot take precedence
in the distribution of the proceeds of a sale of the property
itself over those creditors who are secured by prior and express
liens, said: "There are cases, it is true, where, owing to special
circumstances, an equity arises in favor of certain classes of
creditors of an insolvent railroad corporation otherwise unsecured, by which they are entitled to outrank in priority of
payment, evei upon a distribution: of the proceeds of a sale
of the body of the property; those who are secured by prior
mortgage liens." "The rule," the court said, "governing in
all these cases was stated by Chief Justice Waite in Burnham
v. Bowen, 111 U. S. 776, 783, as follows: 'That if current
earnings are used for the benefit of mortgage creditors before
current expenses are paid, the mortgage security is chargeable
in equity with the restoration of the fund which has been thus
improperly applied to their use.' There has been no departure from this rule in any of the cases cited; it has been
adhered to and reaffirmed in them all."
In Kneelan( v. American Loan & fTr'ust Co., 136 U. S. 89,
97, this court said: "The appointment of a receiver vests in
the court no absolute control over the property, and no general
authority to displace vested contract liens. Because in a few
specified and limited cases this court has declared that unsecured claimis were entitled to priority over mortgage debts, an
idea seems to have obtained that a court appointing a receiver
acquires power to give such preference to any general and

SOUTHERN 'RAILWAY v. CARNEGIE STEEL CO.

28-3

Opinion of the Court.

unsecured claims. It has been assumed that a court appointing a receiver could rightfully burden the mortgaged property
for the payment of any unsecured indebtedness. Indeed, we are
advised that some courts have made the appointment of a re.ceiver conditional upon the payment of all unsecured indebtedness, in preference to the mortgaged liens sought to be enforced.
Can anything be conceived which more thoroughly destroys
the sacredness of contract obligations? One holding a mortgage debt upon a railroad has the same right to demand
and expect of the court respeci for his vested and contracted
priority as-a holder of a mortgage on a farm or lot. So, when a
court appoints a receiver of railroad property, it has no right to
make that receivership conditional on the payment of other than
those few unsecured clainis which, by the rulings of this court,
have been declared to have an equitable priority. No one
is bound to sell to a railroad company or to work for it, and
whoever has dealings with a company when property is mortgaged must be assumed to have dealt with it on the faith of its
personal responsibility, and not in expectation of subsequently
displacing the priority of the mortgage liens. It is the exception, and not the rule, that such priority of liens can be displaced." Again: "It is the exception, and not the rule, that
such priority of liens can be displaced. We emphasize this
fact of the sacredness of contract liens, for the reason that
there seems to be growing an idea that the chancellor, in the
exercise of his equitable powers, has unlimited discretion in
this matter of the displacement of vested liens." These principles were reaffirmed in Thomas v. Western Car Co., 149
U. S. 95, 110, in which it was held that the car.company
there seeking a preference over mortgage creditors had contracted upon the responsibility of the railroad company, and
not in reliance upon the interposition of a court of equity;
consequently.its claim to a preference was denied.
In Virginia & Alabama Coal Co. v. Central Railroad &
Banking Co., 170 U. S. 355, 365, 368, the. court, referring to
the decision in Burnharm v. Bowen, said: "It was thus settled
that where coal is purchased by a.r ilroad company for use
in operating lines of railway owned *and controlled by it, in

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court

order that they may be continued as a going concern, and
where it was the expectationf of the parties that the coal was
to be paid for out of the current earnings, the indebtedness,
as between the party furnishing the materials and supplies
and the holders of bonds secured by a mortgage upon the
property, is a charge in equity on the continuing income, as
well that which may come into the hands of a court after a
redeiver has been appointed as that before. It is immaterial
in such case, in determining the right to be compensated out
of the surplus earnings of the receivership, whether or not
during the operation of the railroad by the company there
had been a diversion of income for the benefit of the mortgage
bondholders, either in payment of interest on mortgage bonds
or expenditures for permanent improvements upon the property. Nor is the equity of a current supply claimant in subsequent income arising from the operation of a railroad under
the-direction of the court affected by the fact that, while the
company is operating its road, its income is misappropriated
and diverted to purposes which do not inure to the benefit
of the mortgage bondholders and are foreign to the beneficial
maintenance, preservation and improvement of the property."
In the opinion in that case the court observed that it did
not intend to detract from the force of the intimations contained in Kneeland v. American Loan & Trust Co. and
Thomas v. Western Car Co., above cited, "as to the necessity
of a court of equity confining itself within very restricted
limits in the application of the doctrine that in certain cases
a court, having a road or fund under its control, may be
justified in awarding priority over the claims of mortgage
bondholders to.unsecured claims originating prior to a receivership." And it was further said: "In neither the Rkeeland
nor the Tkomas case was there any intention to question the
prior decisions of the court, which allowed priority to claims
based upon the furnishing of essential and necessafy current
supplies, not sold upon mere personal credit, against the
surplus income arising during the operation of the road under
the direction of a court of equity."
It is apparent from an examination of the above cases that

SOUTHERN RAILWAY v. CARNEGIE STEEL CO. 285
Opinion of the Cout.

the decision in each one depended upon its special facts.
This court has uniformly refrained from laying down any
rule as absolutely controlling in every case involving the
right of unsecured creditors of a corporation, whose property
is in the hands of a receiver, to have their demands paid out
of net earnings in preference to mortgage creditors. But
it may be safely affirmed, upon the authority of former decisions, that a railroad mortgagee when accepting his security
impliedly agrees that the current debts of a railroad company
contracted in the ordinary course of its business shall be paid
out of current receipts before he has any claim upon such
income; that, within this rule, a debt not contracted upon
the personal credit of the company but to keep the railroad
itself in condition to be used with reasonable safety for the
transportation of persons and property, and with the expectation of the parties that it was to be miet out of the current
receipts of the company, may be treated as a current debt ;
that whether the debt was contracted upon the personal
credit of the company, without any reference to its receipts,
is to be determined in each case by the amount of the debt,
the time and terms of payment, and all other circumstances
attending the transaction; and that when current earnings
are used for the betiefit of mortgage creditors before current
expenses are paid, the mortgage security is chargeable in
equity' with the restoration of any funds thus improperly
diverted from their primary use. The doctrine announced
in Burnham v. Bowen -in which case tle decisions in prior
cases were affirmed -is thus expressed in the recent case of
Yirginia & Alabama Coal Co. v. Central Railroad Company,
above citedl: "The dominant feature of the doctrine as applidd in Burnhiam v. Bowen, is that, where expenditures
have been made which were essentially necessary to enable
the road to be operated as a continuing business, and it was
the expectation of the creditors that the indebtedness created
would be paid out of the current earnings of the company,
a superior equity arises in favor of the material man as against
the mortgage bonds.in the income arising both before and
after the appointment of a receiver from. the operation of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

property. The equity thus held to arise when a purchase of
necessary current supplies is made by the owning company
is not in anywise influenced by the fact that the company
itself is the purchaser of the supplies, but is solely dependent
upon the fact that the supplies are sold and purchased for
use and that they are used in the operation of the road, that
they are essential for such operation, and that the sale was
not made simply upon personal credit, but upon the tacit or
expres§ understanding that the current earnings would be
appropriated for the payment of the debt."
Can the decree below be sustained consistently with these
principles? Are the debts due the Carnegie Company of the
class designated in the adjudged cases as current debts contracted, not on the personal credit of the railroad company,
but in the ordinary course of its business and to be met out
of current receipts? As already said, whether the parties,
seller and buyer, had in view only the personal credit of the
latter is to be determined in each case by its special facts,
including the amount of the debt and the terms of payment.
All the rails furnished by the Carnegie Company were not
supplied under one contract -a circumstance not to be ignored
when determining whether the debts were of the kind that
would ordinarily be met out of current receipts. The first
contract between the Carnegie Company and the Danville
Company was made June 10, 1891 - within less than twelve
months before the appointment of receivers in the Clyde suit.
It called for the delivery by the Carnegie Company, during
the month of July, 1891, of only 2500 gross tons of rails for
which the railroad company was to pay thirty dollars per
gross ton, in its notes at four months from date of shipment
wit out interest, with privilege or one renewal for three
months with interest at the rate of 5 per cent per annum, and
a second renewal for three months with interest at the rate
of 6 per cent per annum. The railroad company reserved the
option to increase by 200 or 300 the number of tons to be
delivered, making the total delivery 2700 or 2800 tons. That
option was exercised. By another arrangement between

SOUTHERN RAILWAY v. CARNEGIE STEEL CO.

287

Opinion of the Court.

the parties entered into July 21, 1891, the contrae was further extended to cover 1656 tons of rails at the same price,
terms and delivery. Subsequently, by agreement of October 2,
1891, provision was made for the delivery of 200 additional
tons at the price of $26 per ton. The delivery of the rails
was in varying amounts, and at different times between
July 25, 1891, and October 10, 1891. The whole quantity
tons, worth $125,067.39. Notes were
delivered was 4203-20
given by the railroad company, and they were renewed at
their respective maturities. Those last given, and which
were unpaid at the time of the institution of the Clyde or
insolvency suit, were each payable at three months, except
the last one, which was at four. months. They were of the
follo*ing dates and amounts : March 21, 1892, $38,251.77;
March 24, 1892, $35,499.38; April 4, 1892, $12,786.16; May 16,
1892, $5355.09; June 7, 1892, $33,174.99. The first note was
due June -21-24, 1892, (six days only after the appointment of
receivers in the Clyde suit,) and the last October 7-10,1892.
The rails so received from Carnegie Company were used by
the Danville Company on the following roads in its possession
and under its control: 1108.5 tons 561b, $33,174.99, on the
Northeastern Railroad of Georgia; 1270 tons 701b, $37,713.75,
on the Virginia Midland Railroad; 1793.5 tons 701b, $53,258.69,
on the Richmond and Danville Railroad; 31.2 tons 701h,
$920.56, on the Georgia Pacific Railroad. This use of the rails
is shown by the reportf of special masters, and to that report
on this point no exceptions were filed by either party.
What was the condition of the roads owned and controlled
by the Daniille Company at the time the rails were purchased
and used? It was in the power of the railroad company and
its receivers, who had possession of the books of the company,
to have furnished evidence on -this point that would have removed all possible doubt. But there is enough in the record
to show that the rails purchased from the Carnegie Company
were needed in order that the roads in question might be kept
by the railroad company in that condition of safety which its
duty to the public and to the mortgage bondholders required.
In August, 1892, immediately after the receivers took posses-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Courb.

Bon of the 'railroadsconstituting the Danville system, they reported to the court that the financial difficulties of the Danville Company during the previous two years had "prevented
th' operating officers from being able to expend the proper
amount for new rails, and upon the roadbed and structures,
to keep the railroad in the condition in 'which it should be
maintained,and it will be necessary for the receivers, during
the summer and autumn, to make a much larger" expenditure
than they would for ordinary maintenance." Here is a direct admission by the receivers that during the two years immediately
preceding their appointment the railroad company had not expended for new rails and upon: the roadbed and structures the
amount necessary to keep its road in proper condition. There
is no evidence in the record which even tends to show that the
statements of the receivers on this point were not strictly
accurate. But this purchase of new rails proved to be inadequate; for on the 27th of January, f894, the foreclosure receivers represented to the court, by petition, that "for the proper
and economical operation of the lines of railroad of which they
are receivers, and for the safety of paasengers and properrty
tran8portedover such roads, as required by the order of this
court appointing such receivers, two thousand tons of new
steel rails are an absolute necessity;" and that they "had
negotiated with and purchased from the Carnegie Steel Company, Limited, subject to the approval of the court, that
quantity of rails at the cost of $24: per ton."' The court made
an order in accordance with that petition. Again, on the
13th day of April, 1894, the court -all parties to the foreclosure suit conseriting thereto, including the bondholders'
committee - made an order authorizing the receivers to purchase 2500 tons of new steel rails in order "to properly operate
the railroads" in their charge, "and for the safety of versons
andproerty transported."
It is apparent that the purchases of new steel r.ils w~le
the railroads were in possession of receivers were made in the
ordinary course of business and were properly chargeable
upon and payable out of current receipts in preference to the
claims of mortgage creditors. In every substantial sense the

SOUTHERN RAILWAY v. CARNEGIE STEEL CO.

289

Opinion of the Court.

expenses thus incurred were operating expenses. They were
incurred in the interest of mortgage creditors, the value of
whose securities depended upon the unity of the Danville system being preserved and the interests of all concerned not
allowed to go to ruin. Why should a different rule be applied
to the contracts made with the Carnegie Company shortly
before the apointment of receivers in the Clyde suit, the original contract being for only 2500 tons, and the last one for
only 1656 tons? Is it to be said that the contract for 2000
tons of steel 'ails and the contract for 2500 tons made by the
receivers in the foreclosure suit created debts of a preferential
character, while contracts made by the railroad company of
exactly the same kind shortly before the appointment of receivers for 2500 and 1656 tons of steel rails could not under any
circumstances become a preferential debt chargeable upon
current receipts? Surely the quantity of rails purchased from
the Carnegie Company and delivered in 1891 was insignificant
in view of the interests involved and the extensive mileage of
the Danville system, and was by-no means so large as to suggest that they were to be used in constructing new and additional road, and not to keep existing roads in proper condition
for use. Every railroad company must have on hand a limited quantity of rails in order to keep every part of its line in
proper and safe condition. It is evident that the Carnegie
rails purchased shortly before the receivers in the Clyde nit
were appointed - the 'rails here in question - were obtained
for the same reason that induced the subsequent' purchases by
the receivers. No one will say that the use of these rails did
not, add directly to the value of the securities of mortgage
creditors. Within the reason of the rule adverted toi the
debts contracted with the Carnegie Company were as much
current debts in the ordinary course of the business of the
railroad company as were the debts contracted by the receivers under the orders of court, when they purchased new rails
to put the road in safe condition, or when they purchased at
one time four passenger locomotives, and at another time
eight passenger and freight locomotives, the cost of which
was charged upon the income in their hands. Is it to be said
VOL. cTxxVrw--19

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.Opinion of the Court.

that such expenses incurred by the receivers were preferential
debts, but that debts incurred by the railroad company shortly
prior to the receivership for rails 'needed to keep its road in
safe condition for use are not of that class?
We next inquire whether'it-was not at the time the expectation of both parties, vendor and vendee, that the rails delivered by the Carnegie Company between July 25, 1891, and
October 10, 1891, should be paid for out of the current earnings of the. railroad company? The attendant circumstances
require an affiimative answer to this question, although the
parties did notin eipress words .declare that the debts due
contracted with the Carnegie Company were to..be charged
upon -the current earnings of the iailroad company. The
qtqantity of rails was not so large as to preclude the expectation that they could be paid for out of the durrent earnings
of the railroad company. As -already said, it was a very small
quantity for purposes of ordinary or necessary repairs, and
there is nothing in the record to show that the Carnegie Company relied merely or exclusively on the personal credit of th6
railroad company. The -renewal notes executed by the railroad company were all within the three months immediately
yreceding the appointment of the Peceivers. The short credit
given strongly indicates; and the fair inference from the record
is, that the parties contemplated that the rails were.to be paid
for out of the current earnings of the railroad. The taking of
notes does not indicate the contrary, but only shows that the
vendor company preferred to have its debt evidenced by commercial paper which it could use, rather than to stand upon
open account. In Burnham v. Bowen it was said: "When
the receiver was appointed the debt was evidenced by business
paper maturing at a future date. It was no waiver of any.
claim on the fund which might come into the hands of the
receiver to renew the paper at maturity for the convenience
of the holder. It was undoubtedly given originally to enable
the coal company to use it as commercial paper if occasion
required, and -the renewal may have become desirable on
account of the use which had been made of it." The equities
of the creditor furnishing that.which protected and preserved

SOUTHERN RAILWAY v. CARNEGIE

TEEL CO.

291

Opinion of the Court.

the mortgage security and materially increased its' value are
none the less because the original debt was evidenced by the
notes of the'company, taken for its convenience and renewed
for its accommodation.
It may be said that a part of the rails furnished by the
Carnegie Company were not used on the Danville railroad,
although used on roads belonging to the Danville system.
But that is not a controlling circumstance. The contracts
were made with the Danville Company, and, as between the
contracting parties, the debts so incurred were, under the circumstances stated, current debts chargeable upon the current
receipts of the railroad company that purchased the rails.
The rights of the Carnegie Company are none the less because the Danville Company chose, after obtaining the 'rails,
to use a part of them on roads under its control and in its
possession, and whose preservation in proper condition was
vital to its successful operation. The scheme of reorganization was in the interest of the stockholders and mortgage
creditors of the roads constituting the Danville system, and
chiefly of the bondholders represented by the Central Trust
Company, the trustee in the consolidated gold mortgage.
That company, as we shall presently show, stood by and
assented to, indeed approved, the application, for the benefit
of the bondholders represented by it, of funds which shouid
have been applied in payment of current debfs contracted in
the interest of mortgage creditors before the appointment of
receivers in the Clyde suit. Suppose the court had directed
the receivers in the Clyde suit, before turning over the property
to the receivers in the foreclosure suit, to pay the claims of the
Carnegie Company, is it possible that the mortgage creditors
would have been heard to object to such an order? Certainly
not, if it appeared, as it does satisfactorily appear in the present
case, that the Carnegie debts were incurred in the ordinary
course of business for the purpose of keeping the railroad in
safe condition for use by the public. If the Carnegie claims
were preferential debts when the control of the property
passed from the railroad companiy to the receivers in the
insolvency or Clyde suit, the latter were bound in equity to

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

do what the railroad company would have been required to do
if it had retained control of the property.
If the parties to the contract contemplated that the notes
given for the rails should be paid for out of the current earnings of the railroad, and if the Carnegie Company lost no
equity merely by renewing the notes, it follows, under the
settled doctrine of this court, that the mortgagees could not
have objected to the payment of the renewal notes out of any
net earnings in the hands of receivers, although the contract
for the rails was a few months back of the six months immediately preceding their appointment. Each case, as already
observed, must depend largely'upon its special facts. In some
cases the courts, in their administration .of railroad property
by receivers, have refused to give priority to unsecured claims
that did not accrue within six months immediately preceding
the appointment of receivers. Such a rule will do full justice
in most cases to creditors who are entitled to look to current
receipts for the payment of current debts. But no absolute
rule on the subject has been prescribed by statute or by judicial decisions. A claim accruing back of the six months
immediately preceding the appointment of a receiver may,
under the circumstances of particular cases, be accorded the
same priority in the distribution of earnings that belongs to
like claims arising within that period. Touching this question
of time-and the principles upon which the equitable rights of
creditors in such cases as this rest, Air. Justice Brewer said,
in Blair v. St. Louis &c. Railway Co., 22 Fed. Rep. 4V71, 414:
"The idea which underlies them I take to be this: that the
management of a large business, like that of a railroad company, cannot be conducted on a cash basis. Temporary credit,
in the nature of things, is indispensable. Its employ~s cannot be paid every month. It cannot settle with other roads
its traffic balances at the close of every day. Time to adjust
and settle these various matters is indispensable. Because, in
the nature of things, this is so, such temporary credits must
be taken as assented to by the mortgagees. . . . In this
view, such temporary credits accruing prior to the appointment of the receiver must be recognized by the mortgagees

SOUTHERN RAILWAY v. CARNEGIE STEEL CO.

293

Opinion of the Court.
and such claims preferred. Now, for what time prior to the
appointment of a receiver may these credits be sustained?
There is no arbitrary time prescribed, and it should be only
such reasonable time as; in the nature of things and in the
ordinary course of business, would be sufficient to have such
claims settled and paid. Six months, is the longest time I
have noticed as yet given. Ordinarily, I think that is ample.
Perhaps, in some large concerns, with extensive lines of road
and a complicated business, a longer time might be necessary."
What was done with the earnings of the property that
originally came to the hands of the receivers, as well as with
the earnings during the receivership under the Clyde bill and
also during the receivership in the foreclosure suit instituted by
the Central Trust Company? As to these matters there is no
room for dispute. Assuming, in view of what has been said,
that the claims of the Carnegie Company were current debts
chargeable upon current earpings of the railroad property, even
while in the hands of the receivers, and therefore to be preferred to claims of mortgage creditors, the next inquiry is
whether the current receipts were applied during the receiverships for the benefit of the bondholders or otherwise when
they should have been applied to the payment of current or
preferential debts including the debts due to the Carnegie
Company.
During the insolvency or Clyde receivership, from June 17,
1892, to July 31, 1893, the net earnings were $3,297,792.31.
Among the items of expenditure during the same period were
the following: Construction, $232,134.34; of which $19,717.05
was for construction on the DanvilM road; Equipment,
$81,390.32, of which $74,733.28 was for equipment on the
Danvilleroad; Interest, iRent'als and Dividends, $3,249,481.89,
of which $396,522.14 was for the Danville road, $709,324 for
the Virginia Midland, $20,265 for the North Eastern, and
$232,127 forthe Georgia Pacific road, the last four roads being
those on which, according to the special master's report, the
Carnegie rails were used; Sinking Fund, Richmond and Danville road, five per cent equipment mortgage, $67,205, and
Car Trust payments, $209,500.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Between August 1, 1893, and December 31, 1893, out of the
net earnings of the Danville system, excluding certain lines,
the receivers paid among other sums the following: Construction on Danville road, $9232.61; Equipment on same road,
$6791.35; Interest, Rentals and Dividends, $626,735.85, which
included $48,082.90 for the Danville road, Virginia Midland,
$199,664.50, and $87.50 for the North Eastern Railroad; Sinking Fund, Danville Company, equipment mortgage, $37,790;
Car Trust payments, $51,160.
The above figures are found in the statement of the result
of the operations of the Danville system for the periods
named.
Looking at the cash statement of the receipts and disbursements of the Richmond and Danville Railroad alone, we find
that from June 16, 1892, to July 31, 1893, the receipts were
$15,432,055.46. In this sum were included $480,427.91 cash
received from the Danville Company when the Clyde or
insolvency receivers were appointed, and $671,363.40 collected
on accounts turned over to those receivers by the railroad
company. The disbursements during the above period were
$15,290,730.27, leaving in the hands of the receivers on
July 31, 1893, $141,325.19 in cash which was turned over to
the foreclosure receivers. The disbursements included among
other items the following: Interest and Reptal , $3,249,481.89;
Car Trust payments and Sinking Funds, $486,368.16.
The account 'of disbursements for the Danville road from
August 1, 1893, to November 30, 1893, shows, among other
things, the payment 'of Interest and Rentals, $591,457.42;
Car Trust payments and Sinking Fund, $88,950.
The total floating debtof the Richmond and Danville Railroad remaining unpaid was $318,324.71, of which $22,186.53
represented a claim of the Western Union Telegraph Company in part for labor and supplies and in part for construction of telegraph line, and $90,000 represented a claim of the
Pullman Palade Car for mileage of cars. Of the balance,
$125,067.39 represented the claims of the Carnegie Company,
and $80,317.98 represented all other claims.
These figures show that both during the receivership in the

SOUTHERN RAILWAY v. CARNEGIE -STEEL CO.

295

Opinion of the Court.

Clyde suit and the receivership in the foreclosure suit immense
sums were expended in paying interest, sinking fund and car
trust debts, and for construction and equipment, which were
all for the benefit of mortgage creditors, and which, to the
extent necessary, should have been applied in payment of
preferential claims, including those of the Carnegie, Company.
It is a clear case of a diversion of income from the payment
of current debts in the interest of mortgage creditors. Judge
Simonton well said: "There can be no question that the steel
rails furnished by the Carnegie Steel Company come within
the class of supplies necessary to keep the railroad- company
a going concern; and the evidence establishes the fact that
after incurring the debt the railroad company was in the
receipt of large earnings, which were applied to permanent
improvements, 'rentals and interest on the mortgage debt;
that the receivers who, under the Clyde bill, took possession
of the property, earned large income which was applied in
the same way, leaving this debt unpaid; and that when these
receivers wefe discharged they showed in their accounts a
cash surplus, which was duly paid over to their successors
under the Centlal Trust Company bill." Looking at the case
in the light of the principle that a mortgagee cannot require.
from the mortgagor an account of the earnings, tolls and
income until he has made demand therefor or for a surrender
of possession under the provisions of the mortgage, Sage v.'
-Memphis & Little Book Railooad, 125 U. S. 361, 378; .Fosdick v. Shall, 99 U. S. 235, 253, the Circuit Court of Appeals
also said: " When, therefore, the receivers appointed at the
instance of stockholders and creditors took possession, ,they
enjoyed the same right to the earnings and income which the
railroad company enjoyed, and rightfully received them. As
the railroad company would have been bound tp, use this
income in the payment of the current expenses for labor nd
supplies, the receivers should have done so also; but, instead
of this, the receivers diverted the earnings, income and funds
in their hands toward the betterment of the property, permanent improvements and ackitions to it, and in payment of
interest. And this was natural. They were appointed to

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

take possession of the property and to conserve it until a plan
of reorganization could be adopted and perfected. To facilitate this plan, the property must be kept up. To this end the
funds coming from earnings were used. When the purpose
of the first receivership was accomplished, the mortgage
creditors came in and, reaped the benefit. Surely those
creditors whose claims were neglected, and from whom the
earnings were diverted, have the right to ask and receive at
the hands of the court the.recognition and preservation of
their claims." 42 U. S. App. 150. Judge Morris filed a concurring opinion and took the same general view of the case as
that expressed by Judge Simonton for- the court. He said
that the dase was that of "a supply creditor seeking to be
-paid -out of the earnings which came to the receivers after
his debt matured and which were diverted by them, without
opposition from the mortgagee, to expenditures which directly
resulted in preserving the mortgaged property, which earnings,
if the receivers had not been appointed, there is no ground for
supposing .would not have been applied by the company to the
payment of the supply creditor's debt." 42 U..S. App. 160,161.
'We must not be understood as saying that a general unsecured creditor of an insolvent railroad corporation in the hands
of a receiver is entitled to priority over mortgage creditors in
the distribution of net earnings simply because that which he
furnished to the company prior to the appointment of the
receiver was for the preservation of the property and for the
benefit of the mortgage securities. That, no'doubt, is an
impoftant -element in the matter. Before, however, such a
creditor is accorded a preference over mortgage creditors in
the distribution of net earnings in the'hands of a receiver of a
railroad company, it should reasonably appear from all the
circumstances, including the amount involved and the, terms of
payment, that the debt was one fairly to be regarded as part
of the operating expenses of the railroad incurred in the ordinary course of business, and to be met out of current receipts.
"Passing by as unnecessary to be determined some of the
questions discussed by counsel, our conclusion is that as current earnings which should hdve been applied in meeting our-

SOUTHERN RAILWAY v. CARNEGIE -STEEL CO.

297

Dissenting Opinion: White, J.
rent expenses or liabilities, including the debt due the Carnegie
Company, were diverted for the benefit of mortgage creditors,
it was the duty of the court to see that that company was
reinstated in its claim of priority over the mortgage creditors
in the distribution or application of the net earnings of the
property. That duty was properly performed by the Circuit
Court, and the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming
the judgment of the Circuit Court is
Affrmed.
MR.JUsTicE WmTE

dissenting..

As I comprehend the record, the rails foi which preferential
payment is now allowed did not serve the purpose of ordinary
repair and maintenalhce of the tracks in which they were laid.
Moreover, my understanding of the proof is that it obviously
shows there was no surplus revenue at any time legally applicable to the claim now allowed, and hence that no such revenue was diverted to the benefit of the foreclosing mortgage
creditors auring either of the receiverships by way of betterinents or otherwisd. Moreover, I think the proof is clear that,
conceding every, possible expense which can be claimed, to
have been a betterment or in any wise to have inured to the
benefit, of tie .foreclosing mortgage creditors, nevertheless as
such mortgage cieditors have contributed to the payment of
the general creditors, by the assumption of receivers' certificates and cash contributions, a sum largely in excess of the
amount of such payments for assumed betterments, etc., the
mortgage creditors are entitled to credit for their advandes,
and therefore there would be-a large balance in their favor.
In effect, to state the presumed betterments and charge them
against the foreclosing mortgage creditors without referring
to or taking into account their contributions, is to charge them
for betterments for which they have already paid. St. Loui8,
Alton &c. Railroad v. Cleveland, Columbus &o. Railway, 125
U. S. 658.
I therefore dissent.
MR. JusTIcE BREWER, not having heard the argument in this
case, did not participate in the decision.

