THE PANAMA.
Syllabus.

case to amend, affiant elected not to do so, and to avoid misunderstanding so informed defendant's counsel by the letter
he exhibits with his motion to dismiss."
The motion to vacate the order dismissing the case was
denied, and the plaintiff took an appeal to the Court of
Appeals, which affirmed the ruling of the lower court, and
this appeal was then taken.
The trial court erred in dismissing the case. If the original
order granting leave to amend had been made conditional
upon the payment of costs the plaintiff might or might not
have accepted it. To decline to amend afterwards upon conditions which were not exacted or even, as far as the records
show, were not contemplated, cannot be. charged against him
as misconduct. Indeed, there is no question of his good faith,
and whatever conditions or rights the defendant was entitled
to in consequence of the motion should have been asserted and
adjudged when the plaintiff's motion was made. If such rights
had been asserted the plaintiff would have had a choice of
yielding or not yielding to them, which afterwards could not
be exercised.
We think, thereore,the judgment of the Court of Appeals
8huld be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded
with directions to reverse the judgment of the Supreme
Court, and it is80 ordered.
17

881
5

177 675

THE PANAMA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 127. Argued November 8,1899. -Decided

February 26, 1900.

No general rule of international law exempts mail ships from capture as
prize of war.
A Spanish mail steamship, carrying mail of the.-United States from New
York to Havana at the time of the breaking out of the recent war with
Spain, was not exempt from capture by the sixth clause of the President's
proclamation of April 26, 1898.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.
At the time of the breaking out of the recent war with Spain, a Spanish
mall steamship was on a voyage from New York to Havana, carrying a
general cargo, passengers and mails, and having mounted on board two
breech-loading Hontoria guns of nine centimetre bore, and one Maxim
rapid-firing gun, and having also on board twenty Remington rifles and
ten Mauser rifles, with ammunition for all the guns and rifles, and thirty
,or forty cutlasses. Her armament had been put on board more than a
year before, for her own defence, as required by her owner's mail contract with the Spanish Government, which also provided that, in case of
war, that government might take possession of the vessel with her equipment, increase her .armament, and use her as a war vessel, and, in these
and other provisions, contemplated her use for hostile purposes in time
of war. Held, that she was not exempt from capture as prize of war by
the fourth clause*of the President's proclamation of April 26, 1898.

Tim statement of the case will be found in the opinion of
the court.
Xr. J. Parker .firli, for appellant.
.Ar. Assistant Attoripy General Royt for appellees. .b'.
Joseph IF ffMOammon and .Mr. James E. Hayden, of counsel
for the captors, were on his brief.
Xr. George A. Zing and Mr. William B. K ing, solicitors
for bertain captors, filed a brief on their behalf.
Mrit. TusricFe GBAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a libel for the condemnation of the steamship Panama as prize of war, and was heard in the District Court upon
the libel, the claim of the master in behalf of the owner of the
vessel, and the depositions in preparatorioof her master, her
supercargo, and her chief engineer, which showed the following state of facts:
The Panama was a steamship of 1432 tons register; was
owned by the Compania Transatlantica, a corporation of Barcelona in Spain; sailed under the Spanish flag; had a commission as a royal mail ship from the Government of Spain; carried
a crew of 71 men all told, who had been shipped at different
times at Havana; and her usual course of voyage included the
ports of New York and Havana, and Progreso, Vera Cruz and
other Mexican porfs, with general cargoes, passengers and mails.

THE PANAMA.
Opinion of the Court.

Her last voyage began in Havana, for a round trip by way
of New York, and was to have ended in Vera Cruz. She sailed
from New York at half past two o'clock in the afternoon of
April 20, 1898, with a clearance from the custom-house at that
port for Havana, Progreso, and Vera Cruz, having on board
the Ui ted States mails, 29 passengers (all Spaniards except
one Frenchman) and a general cargo, the produce or manufacture of the Uinited States, shipped at New York, and to be
delivered, at the risk of the shippers, to consignees at those
ports. She pursued the usual course of ships bound southward-along the coast until she passed Alligator Reef light on
the coast of Florida, and then bore away for Havana, and
sighted the Cuban coast on the morning of April 25; and on
that day, when about twenty-five miles from Havana, was
captured by. the United States ship of war Mangrove, and
was sent in charge of a prize crew into Key West. She had
no military or naval officer on board, made no resistance to
the capture, and delivered all her papers and mails to the
prize master.
There were mounted on board the Panama, at the time of
her capture, five guns: Two breech-loading Hontoria 9 centimetre guns, one on each side of the ship, with 30 rounds of
shot for each; one Maxim rapid-firing gun, on the bridge,
with ammunition; and two signal guns, one on each side of the
pilot house, with ammunition. She also had on board about
twenty Remington rifles, and ten Mfauser rifles, with ammunition for each, and about thirty or forty cutlasses. The cannon
had been put on board about three years before, and the small
arms and ammunition had been on board a year or more. She
was so armed in accordance with a contract with the Spanish
Government, which required all the mail steamships of the
company to be armed, and article 26 of which was as follows:
"Every ship shall take on board, for her own defence, the
following armament: Two Horntoria 9 centimetre guns, with
powder and ammunition for 30 shots for each piece; twenty
Remington rifles, with 100 rounds apiece, and bayonet or
sword-bayonet; and twenty cutlasses."
The master of the Panama moved the court to allow further

OCTOBER TERI,

1899.

Opinion of the Court.

proof upon the matters set forth in two test affidavits, filed by
leave of the court, in which he testified more distinctly that
the mounted guns and small arms which the Panama carried
had not been shipped for the purpose of war, or in expectation
of hostilities between the Spanish Government and the United
States, but were taken on board pursuant to the requirements
of that contract; and also testified that the Spanish Government had never taken possession of the Panama under the
terms of the contract; and that until the capture he and his
officers were ignorant of the existence of the war between
Spain and the United States, and of any blockade of the port
of Havana. And he asked leave to submit to the court the
whole contract, as contained in a printed book, which was in
the ehaft room of the Panama, and in the custody of the prize
master, and which has since been sent up to this court as one
of the exhibits in the cause.
By that contract, concluded between the Spanish Government and the Compania Transatlantica on November 18, 1886,
and drawn up and printed in Spanish, the company bound itself to establish and to maintain for twenty years various lines
*of mail steamships, one of which included Havana, New York
and other ports of the United States and of Mexico; and the
Spanish Government agreed to pay certain subsidies to this
company, and not to subsidize other steamship lines between
the same points. Among. the provisions of the contract, besides article 26, above quoted, were the following:
By article 25, new ships of the West Indian line must be of
iron, or of the material which experience may prove to be the
best; must have double-bottomed halls, divided into watertight compartments, with all the latest improvements known
to the art of naval construction ; and "their deck and sides shall
have the necessary strength to support Ihe artillery that'they
are to mount." All the ships of that line must have a capacity for 500 enlisted men on the orlop deck, and a convenient
place for them on the main deck. The company, when. begin:
ning to build a new ship, shall submit to the M inister of the
Colonies her plans as prepared for commercial and postal service; "the Minister shall cause to be studied the measures

THE PAN AMA.
Opinion of the Court.

that should be taken looking to the rapid mounting in time of
war of pieces of artillery on board of said vessel; and may
compel the company to do such strengthening of the hull as
he may deem necessary for the possible mounting of that
artillery; said strengthening shall not be required for a greater
number than six pieces whose weight and whose force of recoil
do not exceed those of a piece. of fourteen centimetres." -The
plans of ships already built shall be submitted to the Minister
of Marine, in order that he may cause to be studied the measures necessary to*adapt them to war service; and any changes
that he may deem necessary or possible for that end shall be
made by the company. But .in both old and new ships the
changes proposed by the Ministry must be such as not to
prejudice the commercial purposes ofthe vessels.
By article 35, the vessels, with their engines, armaments and
other appurtenances, must be constantly maintained in good
condition for service.
By article 41, the officers and crews of the vessels, and, as
far as possible, the engineers, shall be Spaniards.
By article 49, the company may employ its vessels in the
transportation of all classes of passengers and merchandise,
and engage in all commercial operations that will not preju-.dice the services that it must render to the State.
By article 60, when by order of the Government munitions
of war shall be taken on board, the company may require that
it shall be done in the manner and with the precautions necessary to avoid explosions and disasters.
By article 64, in case of the suspension of the mail service
by a naval war, or by hostilities in any of the seas or ports visited by the company's ships, the Government may take possession of them with their equipment and supplies, having a
valuation of the whole made by a commission composed of
two persons selected by the Government, two by the company, and a fifth person chosen by those four; at the termination of the war, the vessels with their equipment are to be
returned to the company, and the Government is to pay to
the company an indemnity for any diminution in their value,,
according to the opinion of the commission, and is also, for

OCTOBER TERM, 1899..
Opinion of the Court.

the time it has the vessels in its service, to pay five per cent
on the valuation aforesaid. By article 66, at the end of the
war, the Government may relieve the company of the performance of the contract if the casualties of the war have disabled it from continuing the service. And by article 67, in
extraordinary political circumstances, and -though there be no
naval war, the Government may charter one or more of the
company's vessels, and in that event shall pay an indemnity
estimated by the aforesaid commission.
The District Court denied the motion of the master to take
further proof; restored parts of the cargo to claimants thereof; gave claimants of other parts of the cargo leave to introduce further proof; and entered a final decree of condemnation
and sale of the Panama and the rest of her cargo, -upon the
ground that she was enemy's property, and was upon the high
seas at the time of the President's proclamation exempting
certain vessels from arrest. 87 Fed. Rep. 927. The court
also, on the application of the commodore commanding at
Key West, and on the recommendation of "the prize commissioners, ordered all the mounted guns and the ammunition
therefor to be appraised by two officers of the Navy, and
delivered to the commodore for the use of the Navy Department. The master of the Panama appealed to this court
from the decree condemning the vessel.
The recent war with Spain, as declared by the act of Congress of April 25, 1898, c. 189, and recognized in the President's proclamation of April 26, 1898, existed on and after
April 21, 1898. 30 Stat. 364, 1770. This proclamation declared, among the rules on which the war Would be conducted,
the following:
"4. Spanish merchant vessels, in any ports or places within
the United States, shall be allowed till May 21, 1898, i'nclusive,
for loading their cargoes and departing from such ports or
places; and such Spanish merchant vessels, -if met at sea by
any United States .ship, shall be permitted to continue their
voyage if, on examination of their papers, it shall appear that
their cargoes were taken on -board before the expiration of the
above term: Provided, that nothing herein contained shall

THE PAAKNA.
Opinion of the Court.

apply to Spanish vessels having on board any officer in the
military or naval service of the enemy, or any coal (except
such as may be necessary for their voyage) or any other article prohibited or contraband of war, or any despatch of or to
the Spanish government."
"6. The right of search is to be exercised with strict regard
for the rights of neutrals, and the voyages of mail steamers
are not to be interfered with except on the clearest grounds
of suspicion of a violation of law in respect of contraband or
blockade."
It has been decided by this court, in the recent case of The
Buena Ven tura, 175 U. S. 384, that a Spanish merchant vessel,
which had sailed before April 21, 1898, from a port of the
United States on a voyage to a foreign port, not having on
board any officer in the military or naval service of Spain,
nor any article contraband of war, nor any-despatch of or to
the Spanish government, was protected by the fourth clause
of the President's proclamation of April 26, 1898, from condemnation while on that voyage; but that her capture, before
that proclamation was issued, was with probable cause; and
that she should therefore be ordered tb be restored to her
owner, but without damages or costs.
That case would be decisive of this one, but for the mails
and the arms carried by the Panama, and the contract with
the Spanish Government under which the arms were put on
board.
It was argued in behalf of the claimant that, independently
of her being a merchant vessel, she was exempt from capture
by reason of her being a mail steamship and actually carrying
mail of the United States.
There are instances in modern times, in which two nations,
by convention between themselves, have made special agreements concerning mail ships.. But international agreements
for the immunity of the mail ships of the contracting parties
in case of war between them have never, we believe, gone
farther than to provide, as in the postal convention between
the United States and Great Britain in 1848, in that between
Great Britain and France in 1833, and in other similar con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

ventions, that the mail packets of the two nations shall continue their navigation, without impediment or molestation,
until a notification from one of the governments to the other
that the service is to be discontinued; in which case they
shall be permitted to return freely, and under special protection, to their respective ports. And the writers on international law concur in affirming that no provision for the
immunity of mail ships from capture has as yet been adopted
by such a general consent of civilized nations as to constitute
a rule of international law. 9 Stat. 969; Wheaton, (8th ed.)
pp. 659-661, Dana's note; Calvo, (5th ed.) %§2378, 2809; De
Boeck, §§ 207, 208. De Boeck, in § 208, after observing that,
in the case of mail packets between belligerent countries, it
seems difficult to go farther than in the convention of 1833,
above mentioned, proceeds to discuss the case of mail packets
between a belligeirent and a neutral country, as follows: "It
goes without saying that each belligerent may stop the departure of its own mail packets. But can either intercept enemy
mail packets? There can be no question of intercepting neutral packets, because communications between neutrals and
'belligerents are lawful, in principle, saving the restrictions
relating to blockade, to contraband, of war, and the like; the
right of search furnishes belligerents with a sufficient means
of control. But thore is no doubt that it is possible, according
to existing practice, to intercept and seize the enemy's mail
packets."
The provision of the sixth clause of the President's proclamation of April 26, 1898, relating to interference with the
voyages of mail steamships, appears by the context to apply
to neutral vessels only, and not to restrict in any degree the
authority of the United States, or of their naval officers, to
search and seize vessels carrying the mails between the United
States and the enemy's country. Nor can the authority to do
so, in time of war, be affected by the facts that before the war
a collector of customs had granted a clearance, and a postmaster had put mails on board, for a port which was not then, but
has since become, enemy's country. Moreover, at the time
of the capture of the Panama, this proclamation had not been

THE PANAMA.
Opinion of the Court.

issued. Without an express order of the Government, a merchant vessel is not privileged from search or seizure by the
fact that it has a government mail on board. Te Peterhfo
5 Wall. 28, 61.
The mere fact, therefore, that the Panama was a mail
steamship, or that she carried mail of the United States on this
voyage, does not afford any ground for exempting her from
capture.
The remaining question in the case is whether the Panama
came within the class of vessels described in the fourth clause
of the-President's proclamation of April 26, 1898, as "Spanish
merchant vessels," and as not "Spanish vessels having on board
any officer in the military or naval service of the enemy, or
any coal (except such as may be necessary for their voyage)
or any other article prohibited or contraband of war, or any
despatch of or to the Spanish government."
On the part of the claimant, it was argued that the arms
which the Panama carried, under the requiremenlts of her mail
contract and. for the protection of the mails, are not to be regarded as contraband or munitions of war, within the sense of
this clause; that "contraband," as therein referred to, means
contraband cargo, not contraband portion of the ship's permanent equipment; and that, if the furnishings of a ship could be
regarded as contraband, every ship would have contraband on
board.
On the other hand, it was contended, in support of the condemnation, that the arms which the Panama carried, belongingto her owner, were contraband of war, and rendered her
liable to capture; and that by reason of her being so armed,
and of the provisions of her mail contract with the Spanish
government, requiring her armament, and recogfiizing the right
of that government, in case of a suspension of the mail service
by war, to take possession of her for warlike purposes, she cannot be considered as a merchant vessel, within the meaning of
the proclamation, but must be treated like any regular vessel
of the Spanish navy under similar circumstances.
The claimant much relied on a case decided in 1800 by the
French Council of Prizes, in accordance with the opinion and

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

report of Portalis, himself a high authority. Wheaton, (8th
ed.) p. 460; De Boeck, § 81. Inthe case referred to, an American vessel, carrying ten cannon of various sizes, together with
muskets and munitions of war, had been captured by French
frigates; and had been condemned by two inferior French tribunals, upon the ground that she was armed for war, and had
no commission or authority from her own government. The
claimants contended that their ship, being bound for India,
was armed for her own defence, and that the munitions of war,
the muskets and the cannon that composed her armament did
not exceed what was usual in like cases for long voyages. Upon
this point, Portalis, acting as commissioner of the French government, reported his conclusion on the question of armament
as follows: "For my part, I do not think it is enough to have
or to carry arms, to incur the reproach of being armed for war.
Armament for war is of a purely offensive nature.. It is established when there is no other object in the armament than that
of attack, or, at least, when everything shows that such is the
principal object of the enterprise; then a vessel is deemed
enemy or pirate, if she has no commission or papers sufficient
to remove all suspicion. But defence is a natural right, and
means of defence are lawful in -voyages at sea, as in all other
dangerous occupations of life. A ship which had but a small
crew, and a considerable cargo, was evidently intended for
commerce, and not for war. The arms found on this ship
were evidently intended, not for committing acts of rapine or
hostility, but for preventing them; not for attack, but for selfdefence. The pretext of being armed for war therefore appears
to me to be unfounded." The Council of Prizes, upon consideration of the report of Portalis, adjudged that the capture
of the vessel and her cargo was null and void, and ordered
them to be restored, with damages. The Pigou, or Pigou,
2 Pistoye et Duverdy, Prises Maritimes, 51; S. C. 2 Cranch,
96-98, and note.
But in that case the only question at issue was whether a neutral merchant vessel, carrying arms solely for her own defence,
was liable to capture for want of a commission as a vessel of
war or privateer. That the capture took place while there

THE PANAMA.
Opinion of the Court.

was no state of war between France and the United States is
shown by her being treated, throughout the case, as a neutral
vessel; 'if she had been enemy's property, she would have been
lawful prize, even if she had a commission, or if she were unarmed. She was not enemy's property, nor in the enemy's
possession, nor bound to a port of the enemy; nor had her
owner made any contract with the enemy by which the enemy
was, or would be, under any circumstances, entitled to take
and use her, either for war, or for any other purpose.
Generally speaking, arms and ammunition are contraband
of war. In he Peterhof, 5 Wall. 28, Chief Justice Chase,
delivering the judgment of this court, said: "The classification of goods as contraband or not contraband has much perplexed text-writers and jurists. A strictly accurate and satisfactory classification is perhaps impracticable; but .that whick
is best supported by American and English decisions may be
said to divide all merchandise into three classes. Of these
classes, the first consists of articles manufactured, and primarily and ordinarily used, for military purposes in time of war;
the second, of articles which may be and are used for purposes
-of war or peace, according to circumstances; and the thirdf of
articles exclusively used for peaceful purposes. Merchandise
of the first class, destined to a belligerent country or places
occupied by the army or navy of a belligerent, is always contraband; merchandise of the second class is contraband only
when actually destined to the military or naval use of a belligerent; while merchandise of the third class is not contraband
at all, though liable to seizure and condemnation for violation
of blockade or siege." And it was adjudged that so much of
the cargo of the Peterhoff, as consisted of artillery harness,.
artillery boots, and army shoes and blankets, came fairly
under the description of goods primarily and ordinarily used
for military purposes in time of war; and, being destined
directly for the use of the rebel military service, came within
the second, if not within the first class of goods contraband of
war. 5 Wall. 58.
Yet it must be admitted that arms and ammunition are not
contraband of war, when taken and kept on board a merchant
VOL. CLXXVI-35

OCTOBER. TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

vessel as part of her equipment, and solely for her defence
against "enemies, pirates and assailing thieves," according to
the ancient phrase still retained in policies of marine insurance.
Pratt, in his essay on the Law of Contraband of War, speaking of the class of "articles which are of direct use in war,"
says: "With respect to these no questions can arise. On
proof of the use of the article being solely or particularly applicable to hostile purposes, the conveyance of it to the enemy
would amount to such a direct interposition in the war as necessarily to entail the confiscation of the property." But he
afterwards adds this qualification: "But even in the case of.
articles of direct use in war, an exception is always made in
favor of such a quantity of them as may be supposed to be
necessary for the use or defence of the ship." And again,
speaking of "warlike stores," he says: "These are, from their
very nature, evidently contraband; but every vessel is, of
course, allowed to carry such a quantity as may be necessary
for purposes of defence; this provision is expressly introduced
in many treaties." Pratt, Contraband of War, xxii, xxv, xl.
And at pages 239, 244, 245 of his appendix he quotes express
provisions to that effect in the treaties between Great Britain
and Russia in 1766, 1797 and 1801. See also Case8 of .Dutch
and Spani8h Shkis, 6 0. Rob. 48 ; The Happy Couple, Stewart Adm. (Nova Scotia) 65, 69; Madison, quoted in 3 Whart.
Int. Law Dig. § 368, p. 313.
But the fact that arms carried by a merchant vessel were
originally taken on board for her own defence is not conclusive as to her character. This is clearly shown by the case of
The'Amelia, (1801) reported by the name of Talbot v. Seeman,
1 Crancb, 1. In that case, during the naval warfare between
the United States and France near the end of the last century,
a neutral merchant vessel, having eight iron cannon and eight
wooden guns mounted on board, and a cargo of merchandise,
sailed from Calcutta for Hamburg, both being neutral ports;
and before reaching her destination was captured by a French
cruiser; and put by her captors, with the cannon still on board,
in charge of a French prize crew, with directions to take her
into a French port for adjudication as prize; and on her way

THE PANAMA.
Opinion of the Court.

thither was recaptured by a .United States ship of war. The
recapture was held to be lawful, and to entitle the recaptors
to salvage before restoring the vessel to her neutral owner,
because, as Chief Justice Marshall said, "The Amelia was an
armed vessel commanded and manned by Frenchmen," "she
was an armed vessel under French authority, and in it condition to annoy the American commerce." 1 Cranch, 32. And
in The Charming Befy, (1804) 2 Cranch, 64, that case was
expressly approved, as a precedent to be followed under similar
circumstances; but was held to be inapplicable where the arms
on board at the time of the recapture were but a single musket and a small amount of powder and 'ball. 2 Cranch, 121.
Notwithstanding that the Amelia was a neutral vessel, with
an armament originally taken on board for defence only, and
therefore, while in the possession of her neutral owner, Would
not (according to the French case above cited) have been liable to capture as an armed vessel, yet, after she had been
taken possession of by the enemy, with the same armament
still on board, and thus was in a condition to be used by the
enemy for hostile purposes, the fact, that the original purpose
of the armament was purely defensive did not prevent her
from being considered as an armed vessel of the enemy.
While the authorities above referred to present principles
and analogies worthy of consideration in the case at bar, they
furnish no conclusive rule -to govern its determination. The
decision of this case must depend upon its own facts, and upon
the true construction of the President's proclamation.
As to the facts, there is no serious dispute. The matters
stated in the test affidavits upon which the motion for further
proof was based add nothing of importance to the facts disclosed by the testimony in preparatorio,and by the mail contract between her owner and the Spanish Government, which
forms part of the ship's papers.
The Panama was a steamship of 1432 tons register, carrying
a crew of 1 men all told, owned by a Spanish corporation,
sailing under the Spanish flag, having a commission as a royal
mail ship from the Government of Spain, and plying from and
to New York and Havana and various Mexican ports, with

OCTOBER TERAI, 1899.
Opinion- of the Court.

general cargoes, passengers and mails. At the time of her
capture, she was on a voyage from New York to Havana, and
bad on board two breech-loading Hontoria guns of nine centimetre bore, one mounted on each side of the ship, one Maxim
rapid-firing gun on the bridge, twenty Remington rifles and
ten Mauser rifles, with ammunition for all the guns and rifles,
and thirty or forty cutlasses. The guns had been put on board
three years before, and the small arms and ammunition had
been on board a year or more. Her whole armament had
been put on board by the company in compliance with its
mail contract with the Spanish Government, (made more than
eleven years before, and still in force,) which specifically required every mail steamship of the company to "take on
board, for her own defence," such an armament, with the
exception of the Maxim gun and the Mauser rifles.
That contract contains many provisions looking to the use
of the company's steamships by the Spanish Government as
vessels of war, Among other things, it requires that each
vessel shall have the capacity to carry 500 enlisted men; that
that government, upon inspection of her plans as prepared for
commercial and postal purposes, may order her deck and sides
to be strengthened so as to support additional artillery; and
that, in case of the suspension of the mail service by a naval
war, or by hostilities in any of the seas or ports visited by the
company's vessels, the Government may take possession of
them with their equipment and supplies, at a valuation to be
made by a commission; and shall, at the termination of the
war, return them to the company, paying five per cent on the
valuation while it has them in its service, as well as an indemnity for any diminution in their value.
The Panama was not a neutral vessel; but she was enemy
property, and as such, even if she carried no arms, (either as
part of her equipment, or as cargo,) would be liable to capture,
unless protected by the President's proclamation.
It may be assmned that a primary object of her armament,
and, in time- of peace, its only object, was for purposes of
defence. But that armament was not of itself inconsiderable,
as appears, not only from the undisputed facts of the case, but

THE PANAMA.
Opinion of the Court.

from the action of the iDistrict Court, upon the application of
the commodore commanding at the port where the court was
held, and on the recommendation of the prize commissioners,
directing her arms and ammunition to be delivered to the
commodore for the use of the Navy Department. And the
contract of her owner with the Spanish Government, pursuant
to which the armament had been put on board, expressly provided that, in case of war, that government might take possession
of the vessel with her equipment, increase her armament, and use
her as a war vessel; and, in these and other provisions, evidently
contemplated her use for hostile purposes in time of war.
She was, then, enemy property, bound for an enemy port,
carrying an armament susceptible of- use for hostile purposes,
and herself liable, upon arrival in that port, to be appropriated
by the enemy to such purposes.
The intent of the fourth clause of the President's proclamation was to exempt for a time from capture peaceful commercial vessels; not to assist the enemy in obtaining weapons of
war. This clause exempts "Spanish merchant vessels" only;
and expressly declares that it shall not apply to "Spanish
vessels having on board any officer in the military or naval
service of the enemy, or any coal (except such as may be necessary for their voyage) or any other article prohibited or
contraband of war, or any despatch of or to the Spanish Government."
Upon full consideration of this case, this court is of opinion
that the proclamation, expressly declaring that the exemption
shall not apply to any Spanish vessel having on board any
article prohibited or contraband of war, or a single military
or naval officer, or even a despatch, of the enemy, cannot
reasonably be construed as including, in the description of.
"Spanish merchant vessels" which are to be temporarily
exempt from capture, a Spanish vessel owned by a subject of
the enemy; having an armament fit for hostile use; intended,
in the event of war, fo be used as a war vessel; destined to a
port of the enemy; and liable, on arriving there, to be taken
possession of by the enemy, and employed as an auxiliary
cruiser of the enemy's navy, in the war with this country.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

The result is, that the Panama was lawfully captured and
condemned, and that the decree of the District Court must be
Affirmed.
PEoKHAmEdissented.
M . JUSTICE

WEYERHAUESER v. MINNESOTA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 123. Argued and submitted January 80, 1900.-Decided February 26, 1900.

The provision in the statute of Minnesota for 1893, c. 151, authorizing the
Governor of the State when it is made to appear that there has been a
gross undervaluation of taxable property by the assessors for any county
in the State, to appoint a board to revalue and reassess it, which board
shall, after due examination, prepare a list of all such undervalued property, of, the year or years in which it was so underassessed, the amount
of the assessment and. the actual and true value thereof for which it
should have been so assessed, does no violation to the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, and does not deprive the
owner of lands, so reassessed at an advanced value, of his lands without
due process of law.

Tis writ of error brings up for review a judgment of the

Supreme Court of Minnesota affirming the judgment of the
district court of Itasca County, assessing certain taxes for
the years 1888 to 1893, inclusive, on the lands of the plaintiff
in error.

The law upon which the proceedings in taxation were based,
statutes of Minnesota of 1893, c. 151, omitting parts not material to the pending controversy, is as follows:
"Whenever it shall be made to appear to the governor of
this State by a complaint in writing and under oath, or by the
finding of any court, the legislature or any committee thereof,.

that for any reason any considerable amount of property in
any county in this State

.

.

.

is assessed

.

.

.

has

'been grossly undervalued by the assessor or other county officials, whether such valuation and assessment has or has not

been reviewed or acted upon by the county board of equaliza-

