OCTOBER TERI, 1899.
,Opinion of the Court.

MESSINGER v. THE EASTERN OREGON LAND
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 24. Submitted November 15, I97.-Decided January 8, 1900.

The judiment in this case affirmed upon the authority of United States v.
Oregon and California Railroad Company and Wilcox v. The Eastern Oregon Land Co.

TiE case is stated in the opinion.

This case was submitted

with Wilcox v. Eastern Oregon Land Co., ante, 51, and a like
disposition was made of it.
3&. John . Gearinfor appellant.
21r. James K. Kelly for appellees.
:MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
The parties in this case and in Wilcox v. Eastern Oregon
Land Company stipulated that the bills, answers, decrees,
assignnents of error, and all other papers and proceedings in
both causes, were exactly alike, with the exception that in
this case it is alleged that the land patented to the defendant
Messinger was patented under the provisions of the act of Congress approved May 20, 1862, entitled "An act to secure homesteads to actual settlers on thb public domain," 12 Stat. 392, c.
75, and the acts supplemental thereto; that the lands patented
were the south half of the northwest quarter and lots three
and four of section three, township two south, of raiige sixteen
east of the Willamette meridian, in Oregon, and were situated within twenty miles of the line of the general route of
the Northern Pacific Railroad Company's road as designated
on its map of August 17, 1870, and that the patent was dated
the 17th day of August, 1894.
It is also stipulated by the parties to the two suits, by their

BLAKE v. McCLUlNG.
Counsel for Parties.

respective attorneys, that, unless this court otherwise ordered,
only the record in the Wilcox suit should be printed, and that
the appeal in this case might be heard and submitted without
printing the record thereof.
Upon the authority of United States v. Oregon 6 California
Railroad ( lompany and Wilcox v. Eastern Oregon Land Company, just-decided, the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
reversing the judgment of the Circuit Court and directing a
decree in favor of the plaintiff, the Eastern Oregon Land Company, is
Affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE MaKENNA

did not participate in the decision

of this case.

178 291-

BLAKE v. McCLUNVG.

17

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSE E.

178

No. 466. Submitted December 18, 1899.-Decided January 8, 1900.
The decision in Blake v. Mc5lung, 172 U. S. 239, referred to; and it is
held that the judgment now under review was not in conformity with
the opinion and mandate in that case- the court adjudging, as it had
adjudged in the previous case, that when the general property and assets
of a private corporation, lawfully doing business in a State, are in the
course of administration by the courts of such State, creditors who are
citizens of other States are entitled, under the Constitution of the United
States, to stand in all respvects upon the same P lane with creditors of like
class who are citizens of such State, and cannot be denied equality of
right simply because they do not reside in that State, but are citizens
residing in other States of the Union.

THME case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Hr. Tully R. Cornick and -Yr. Heber J. May for plaintiffs

in error.
_Yr.,.
in error.

. Tfilliamq and Mr. John If. Green for defendants

29

178 M99

