OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

CHEW HING LUNG v. WISE, COLLECTOR.
OE=ORARI TO THE oIReCUIT COUT OF APPEALS FOR

THE N ITH

CIRCUIT.
No. 86. Argued December 11,12,1899.-Decided January 22,1900.

Tapioca flounr.is not a preparation fit for use as starcn, and under the tariff
act of October 1, 1890, c. 1244, paragraph 720, is entitled to free entry.
The designation of an article, eo nomine, either for duty or as exempt from
duty, must prevail over words of a general description which might
otherwise include the article specially designated. •

THE statement of the case will be found in the opinion of
the court.
Mhfr. A. B. Browne and Mr. Albert Comstock for Chew Hing
Lung. .Mr. Chares Page was on their brief. -

.Mr. Agsistant Attorney General Hoyt for Wise and the
United States.
MR. JUsTIcE

PEoCKHA

delivered the opinion of the court.

The question in this case, which comes before us on certiorari, is whether certain merchandise imported into this
country is entitled to free entry or is subject to duty. The
merchandise is claimed to be tapioca, and the question arises
under the tariff act of October 1, 1890, c. 1244, 26 Stat. 567.
Paragraph 323 (page 588) of the statute reads as follows:
"323. Starch, including all praparations, from whatever substance produced, fit for use as starch, two cents per pound."
Paragraph 730 (page 610) of the "free list," reads as
follows:
"730. Tapioca, cassava or cassady."
The government. claims that the merchandise is a preparation fit for use as starch, and is therefore dutiable at two cents
per pound under paragraph 323.
The importers contend that the substance imported by them

CHEW HING LUNG v. WISE, Collector.

157

Opinion of the Court.

is tapioca, in the form of tapioca flour, which is one of the
three forms of tapioca known to commerce, and is therefore
entitled to free entry under paragraph 730.
The merchandise was imported in November, 1893, at the
port of San Francisco, and the collector of that port -imposed
a duty of two cents per pound upon it. The importers, claiming that it was entitled, to free entry, appealed to the board
of general appraisers, and that board decided that the imported
article was free of duty, and judgment to that effect was
entered. Upon appeal by the collector to the Circuit Court
of the United States, in the Ninth Circuit, Northern District
of California, that court affirmed the decision of the board,
77 Fed. Rep. 734, and the collector then appealed to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, where the
judgment of the Circuit Court was reversed, 48 U. S. App. 517,
and the cause remanded with directions to affirm the decision
of th6 collector. Upon application by the importers this court
granted a writ of certiorari, it being alleged that there were
inconsistent decisions in the Circuit Courts of Appeals on this
question.
Upon the trial of the case before the Circuit Court the
parties agreed upon certain facts, and evidence was given in
regard to the character of the substance imported and its fitness for use as starch, and the court found that the merchandise, though entered at the custom house at San Francisco by
the importers under various names, such as tapioca, sago and
root flour, is all the same substance, viz., the starch grains contained in and derived from the root botanically known as
jatropha manihot. In the West Indies the root is known as
cassava or manioc; in Brazil as mandioc; but all these names
indicate the same thing, without change of condition or character.
There are two varieties df the root, one of which is .very
poisonous, and both varieties contain a large proportion of
starch. The starchy substance constituting the importations
involved in this controversy consists of the, starch grains
obtained from the manihot root by washing, scraping and,
grating, or disintegrating it 'into pulp, which in the poisonous

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

variety is submitted to pressure so as to separate therefrom
the deleterious juices. The starch grains settle and the juice
is subsequently decanted, leaving as a deposit a powder, which,
after repeated washings with cold water and after being dried,
is nearly pure starch, and is insoluble in cold water. This is
the substance in controversy. If sufficient heat and motion
are afterwards applied to this substance a mechanical change
takes place, the grains become fractured and thereby agglutinated. The latter substance is partly soluble in cold water,
and is the granulated tapioca known as "pearl" and "flake"
tapioca of commerce.
The importations in question are from China, and are made
chiefly for the purpose of supplying Chinese laundrymen, who
use the flour as a starch and to a slight extent for food purposes. Its use for starch purposes in the laundry is, however,
limited to the Chinese, except that in some instances in San
Francisco it .is so used in their business by white laundrymen
by mixing it with wheat or eorn starch. Wheat and corn and
potato starch are the starches commonly used in the United
States. Tapioca flour is also used in the Eastern States by
calico printers and carpet manufacturers to thicken colors, and
in the manufacture of a substitute for gum arabic and other
gums. It is also sometimes used for sizing cotton goods, and
in addition as an adulterant in the manufacture of candy and
other articles.
Among the white people/dealing with the Chinese on the
Pacific coast the substance in question is commonly known as
"Chinese starch." In the, general importing markets of the
United States it is commercially known as tapioca flour, and
in those markets the term "tapioca" includes that article in
three forms, viz., flake tapioca, pearl tapioca and tapioca flour.
The substance in question is not imported into San Francisco
by others than Chinese.
The Circuit Judge also found that the article in question is
fit for use as starch in laundry work in the sense that by its use
clothes can be starched, but it is not commonly used in such
work as starch, throughout the United States, and is not known
to be so used except on the Pacific coast. Judgment was therefore ordered for the importers.

CHEW HING LUNG Y. WISE, Collector.
Opinion of the Court.

These findings of facts were assumed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals, and upon them that court based its judgment, reversing the Circuit Court and affirming the action of the collector.
UpoA these facts we.are to determinle which paragraph in
the tariff act is to govern. The findings of the courts below
that the substance in question is included in the- article of
cominerce known as tapioca, and is tapioca in one of its
forms, would entitle it to free entry under paragraph 730,
unless some other provision of the act nullifies that language.
Paragraph 323 is relied on for that purpose. We think it does
not have such effect. That paragraph is general in its nature,
and provides for a duty upon starch, including in that name
all preparations from whaitever substance produced, fit for use
as starch. Any preparation, therefore, whidh is fit for that use
would come within that general designation. What is a preparation "fit for use as starch" is another question, but assuming
tapioca flour to be thus fit, it would be subject to duty under
that paragraph, if there were not another and different provision in the statute relative to that same substance.
When we come to look at the free list in the same statute
we find that tapioca is to be admitted free, and the finding of
the court is that tapioca flour is one of the three forms of
what is commercially known as tapioca, and under that provision the substance involved in this case would be entitled to
free admission. Attempting, as is our duty, to give effect to
the statute in all its parts, we think the proper construction
of these provisions is that under paragraph 323 a duty is laid
upon itarch,.including all preparations, from whatever substance produced, fit for use as starch; and assuming that
tapioca flour is, within that general description, fit for such
use, yet by virtue of paragraph 730, tapioca is placed on the
free list, and the substance tapioca flour, being tapioca in one
of its forms, is excepted from the general language of paragraph 323, and is entitled to free entry.
It is so excepted, because although assuming it to be fit for
use as starch, it is nevertheless tapioca, and tapioca is in so
many words put on the free list. Effect is thus given to the
general language of the paragraph concerning starch and all

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

preparations fit for use as stich, 'excepting therefrom the one
article specially named in paragraph 730, to which effect is,
given by allowing the exception.
'This construction is in strict accordance with the rule -that
the designatidn of an article, eo nomine, either for duty or as
exempt from duty, must prevail over words of a general description which might otherwise include the article specially
designated. Homer v. [he Collector, 1 Wall. 486; 1?eiche v.
Smythe, 13 Wall. 162; .M'oviu8 v. Arthur, 95 U. S. 144; Arthur
v. Lahey, 96 U1. S.. 112 ; Arthur v. Rheim8, 96 U. S. 143;
C.hung Tune v. Kelly, 14 Fed. Rep. 639, 643. The last case
involves this particular substaitce.
It is urged, however, that the provision relating to the fr~e
list is that the articles named therein shall be exempt from
duty "unless otherwise specially provided for in this act,"
(page 602, "free list,") and that tapioca flour is otherwise
specially provided for in the act by paragraph 323. We cannot concur in this view. Tapioca flour is not otherwise specially provided for in paragraph 323. It is not mentioned
specially nor is it named at all in that paragraph, which uses
only general language'relating to starch and all preparations
from whatever substance produced, fit for use as starch. If
tapioca flour be such a preparation it would be included in
that general description if not otherwise exempted. But there
is no special provision for tapioca flour, making that substance,
in terms, dutiable under that paragraph, while in the free list
there is k special designation of tapioca, and tapioca flour is
tapioca, just as much as either of its'other forms, "flake" or
"pearl," is tapioca.'
It would seem that the language at the beginning of the
provision for the free list, that the following articles shall be
exempt from duty, 1.unless otherwise specially provided for
in this act," strengthened the argument that tapioca flour,
being in fact tapioca in one of its well-known forms, was
exempt from duty, because in order not to be exempt the
article must be otherwise specially made dutiable. It is not.
so made dutiable, and is therefore by the clear provision of
the act made free of duty. Being in truth tapioca, and com-

CHEW HI3NG LUNG v. WISE, Co~lector.
Opinion of the Court.

mercially known as such, it does not come under the description of starch, although in great part composed of that
substance. The commercial designation of an article is the
first and most important thing to be ascertained, and governs
in the construction of tbe tariff law when that article is mentioned, unless there is something else in the law which restrains the operation of this rule. Arthur v. -onq8on, 96
U. S. 108; Arthur v. Zahey, 96 U. S. 112; Artkur v. Rheims
Id. 143; Robertson v. Sadomon, 130 U. S. 412; Bogle v.
Magone, 152 U. S.623.
The case is not within the principle decided in .Magone v.
elier), 150 U. S. 70. There the contest fas between a clause
of the tariff act of .1883, providing for a duty upon sulphate
of potash, eo nomine, and a clause exempting from duty "1all
substances expressly used for manure." It was held that a
kind of sulphate of potash, the only common use of which,
either by itself or in combination with other materials,
was for manure or in the manufacture thereof, was entitled
to free entry, and was not subjected to duty as sulphate
of potash. Whether the imported article was at the time
of importation "expressly used for manure" in the sense
defined in the opinion, was held to be a question of fact, and
that the court below erred in denying the collector's request
to submit the.case to the jury and in directing a verdict for
the importer. The term "expressly used for manure," it was
said, was equivalent. t6 ".used expressly "1or "particularly" or
"especially" for manure, and if it were found as a fact that
the article was so used, it was exempt from duty:
If the statute in this case had said that starch was dutiable,
including all pr.parations from whatever substance produced,
expressly intended and fit for use as starch, then tapioca flour,
if fit and intended for such use, might be dutiable under the
paragraph in question, and not be exempt as a form of 'tapioca.
But when the language is, fit for use as starch, it is so much
more general, that it is properly qualified" by the subsequent
paragraph which exempts tapioca, and consequently tapioca
flour, one of its commercially known forms
Thus far we have proceeded upon the assumption that tapiVOL. CLXXVI-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

oca flour was a pieparation fit for use as starch, and, therefore, dutiable under paragraph 323, unless excepted therefrom
by paragraph 78G; but we are of opinion that tapioca flour is,
not a preparation fit.for such use within the meaning of the
statute. The substance in question is not commercially known
as starch, nor as any preparation fit for use as such. In the
markets of the United States it -is commercially known as
tapioca flour, while the term "tapioca" includes precisely the
same substance. Its use as starbh for laundry purposes is
limited to the Chinese on the Pacific coast.
It is not imported into San Francisco by any other than
Chinese, nor is it manufactured in this country into the article
commonly known as starch, nor is it to any extent used as a
substitute therefor, although it is chemically a starch because
a large part of it consists of a starchy.substance.
Upon the finding and the proofs in this case we are of opinion that this article does not come within paragraph 323. We
think the language of that paragraph means any preparation
which is so far fit for use as starch as to be commonly used
or known as such or as a substitute therefor. This substance
does not come within that language as thus construed. The
use of the article by the Chinese on the Pacific coast for laundry purposes is so infinitesimally small that it wholly fails to
show that it is fit for that use within the meaning of the
statute. The evidence in this case is that the attempt to use
it for laundry purposes by white laundrymen in California
gave such poor results that it was abandoned as a failure.
There is one finding by the Circuit Judge in this case in
which it is said that the substance is used in the Eastern
States for 8tarch puroe8 by calico printers and carpet
manufacturers' to thicken colors; also for book binding and
in the manufacture of paper; also for filling ih painting, and
ifl the manufacture of a substitute for gum arabic and other
gums, sometimes for sizing cottoil goods, and also as an adulterant in the manufacture of candy in some cases and in other
articles. The expression in that finding, that the substance is
used in the Eastern States for starohpurposes, is an inadvertence, b6cause the finding, :although it rests upon the evi-

CHEW HNG LUNG v. WISE, Collector.
Opinion of the Court.

dence as well as upon the agreed statement of facts stipulated
between the parties, yet there is nothing in the evidence or
in the stipulation to show that the enumerated purposes were
starch purposes. In the stipulation it is said that the substance in controversy i8 used in the .Eaetern States by calico
priner8, etc. The expression "for starch purposes" does not
appear in the agreed statement of facts, and in naming the
uses for which the substance is used it would appear that most
of them are not what would be ordinarily understood as a
starch purpose.
Sizing cotton goods might perhaps be regarded as somewhat of a starch purpose, as starch is sometimes used in that
way. The evidence does not show that this use is general,
and the expression, fit for use as starch, would not in our
judgment include that ruse. We think it would not it the
ordinary acceptation of the term be called a starch purpose.
Glue would accomplish much the same purpose and might be
used therefor. The use by calico printers and carpet manufacturers to thicken colors is not the ordinary use of starch,
nor is it a starch purpose. Nor would its use as an adulterant
in the manufacture of candy and other articles be properly
described as such a purpose.
Assuming, as counsel for the government claims, and as
is undoubtedly entirely true, that the policy shown in the
tariff act is protection to American industries, yet the article
here in cdntroversy does not and cannot compete with American starch, for any of the purposes for which starch is commonly and ordinarily used in this country.. The evidence to
that effect, we think, is conclusive.
In f/hung Yune v. Zelly, 14 Fed. Rep. 639, the Circuit
'Court for the District of Oregon submitted to the jury
whether "the article in question," (which was in fact tapioca
flour, though imported as sago flour,) "imported and entered
by the defendant, is a starch known to commerce as such,
and made and intended to be used primarily by laundrymen
in the stiffening and polishing of clothes." The jury returned a negative' answer, and the court said: "This answer
is unoubtedly according to .the law and the fact."
The

OCTOBER TERAI, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

substance was held to be exempt from duty under the tariff
act, Rev. Stat. p. 488, as root flour, but the plaintiff was not
allowed to recover back the duty which he had paid, because.
having claimed in his protest that the article was 8ago flour,
the court felt compelled to confine him to his specific ground
of protest, and consequently the government kept his money,
although the importer had in fact imported an article entitled
to free entry under the law.
The case of Townsend v. United State8, 14 U. S. App. 413,
holds that paragraph 323 of the tariff act of 1890 includes
only those preparations which are actually and not theoretically fit for use as starch, and which can be practically used
as such, and not those which can be made, by manufacture,
fit for such use. Counsel for the government criticises that
case as not decided upon the same amount of evidence that
has been given in this case upon the question whether the
article is or is not fit for use as starch. But in the opinion
delivered in the case it is seen that, while not precisely
identical, the facts are substantially the same as in the case
at bar. The court says the article is used mostly by calico
printers and carpet manufacturers to thicken colors and in
the manufacture of a substance for gum arabic or other
gums; also for the sizing of cotton goods, a purpose for which
starch is also used to a certain extent, but the weight of the
testimony was in the opinion of the court that it was not used
for laundry purposes. We think the same facts appear in
the case before us, the use for laundry purposes by a few
Chinese on the Pacific coast not being sufficient in extent to
enable us to say that it is so used in any but the most minute
quantities. It seems to us clear from the finding and from
the evidenbe that the substance is not commercially known
by the people in this country as starch nor as adapted to the
ordinary, purposes of that article, and it has not been manufactured into commercial starch, and is not known and is not
fit for use as such.
The Treasury Department has heretofore announced decisions which are entitled to much weight upon the question
herein presented. Prior to the tariff act of July 14, 1870,

CHEW HING 'LUNG v. WISE, Collector.
Opinion of the Court.

c. 255, 16 Stat. 256, 268, both starch and tapioca 'had been
made dutiable, sometimes at the same and sometimes at different rates of duty. By the latter act "tapioca, cassava or
cassady" were*placed in the free list, while "root flour" was
placed in the free list in 1872. (17 Stat. 236.) The Treasury
Department held tapioca flour entitled 'to free entry as tapioca. The Secretary said: "It appears, upon investigation,
that tapioca is prepared in three forms, namely, flake, pearl
and flour, and that these terms do not indicate' any 'substantial difference in the character or quality of the article, but
merely indicate its form or appearance." Decisions, Treasury
Department, 1887-1896, No. 3161, March 23, 1877.
Under the act of 1883, (22 Stat. 488, 521,) tapioca was continued in the free list, as was also root flour, (page 520,).while
starch was made dutiable as potato or corn starch at a certain
rate, "1other starch two and one half cents per pound." Page
503. The Treasury Department held, July 7, '1883, that tapioca flour was to be admitted free of duty, without regard to
the use for which it was ultimately intended, and that the
provision in that act for a duty upon "other starch" than
potato or corn starch did not cover tapioca flour. Decisions,
Treasury Department, No. 5802.
Subsequently to that time various importations had been
made of this article, upon which duties had been assessed
at the rate of two and one-half cents per pound, as starch,
although imported under various names as "sago, sago crude,
sago flour, tapioca," etc.
Exemption had been claimed, for these articles as coming
under the provisions of the free list as "root flour, sago crude
and sago flour," and "tapioba, cassava or cassady." The article had been classified by the collector under the tariff act as
"other starch," for the reason that it was, as claimed, imported and was actually used as starch by the Chinese laundries throughout the States and Territories. The department,
under date of January 11, 1887, again held that "flour made
from tapioca, cassava or cassady root may be admitted free
of duties, without 'regard to the use for which it is ultimately
intended." Samples of the flour had been submitted to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

United States 6hemist, who reported that it was "chemically
a starch, obtained from the root of Janipha manihut or Jatropha manihot," yet it was considered in its commercial character to be tapioca; it was so returned by the appraiser, and it
was directed that the merchandise should be admitted free of
duty. Decisions, Treasury Department, 1887-1890, No. 7971,
January 11, 1887.
On September 21, 1888,- certain so-called flour was imported
which the importers claimed to be free of "duty, and upon
which the collector assessed a duty.of two and one half cents
per pound under the provisions of the act already mentioned,
providing for such a duty on "other starch," etc. Samples of
the merchandise in question were submitted to the United
States chemist at the port of New York, who found the article to be tapioca starch, and under the department's decisions
of July 7, 1883, and January 11, 1887, it was held that flour
made from tapioca, although chemically a starch, was *to be
admitted free of duty under the provisions for tapioca, without
regard to the use for which it was ultimately intended. The
appeal was allowed, andl the collector directed to reliquidate
the entry and to take measures for refunding the duties exacted. Treasury Department Decisions, 8upra, No. 9031.
These decisions were principally based upon the provisions
of the acts which related to tapioca, (one decision being exclusively upon the tapioca provision,) and although in some cases
in which the question as to tapioca arose, the act also provided
for the free entry of root flour, the decisions that tapioca flour
was entitled to free entry were substantially founded upon the
tapioca provision in the act and not upon the root flour item.
Subsequently, when Congress by the act of 1890 omitted
root flour from the free list and imposed a duty upon starch
and all preparations, from whatever substance produced, fit
for use as starch, we do not think that any argument can be
drawn therefrom in favor of the construction which would
impose a duty on tapioca flour as a preparation fit for use as
starch, while at the same.time there is a clause in the act providing for free entry of tapioca, the substance tapioca flour
being one of its forms. Many other flours might come under

CHICAGO,

IILWAUKEE &c. RWY v. TO]fPKINS.

167

Syllabus.

the denomination ,of root flour which were not specially declared in the act to be free from duty, and the dropping of the
root flour from the free list might relegate such flour to the
dutiable list. Not so as to tapioca flour which is still found
in the free list. The omission of root flour from the free
list, therefore, had no effect upon tapioca flour,.and if there
had been an intention to include it in the dutiable list, epecially after these repeated decisions of the Treasury that it was
entitled to free admission as tapioca, we cannot but believe,
that Congress would have expressed that intention with reasonable clearness.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Ninth
Circuit should be reversed, and that of the Circuit CoUrt
for the Northern -Districtof California affirmed, and the
case remanded to

that court with such direotionsq, and it is

so ordered.

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE AND ST. PAUL RAILWAY
COMPANY v. TOMPKINS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH DAKOTA.
No. 181. Argued October 81, November 1, 1899. -Decided

January 22, 1900.

The State of South Dakota having passed an act providing for the appointment of a board of railroad commissioners, and authorizing that board
to make a schedule of reasonable maximum fares and charges for the
transportation of passengers, freight and cars on the railroads within
the State, provided that the maximum charge for the carriage of passengers on roads 5f the standard gauge should not be greater than three
cents per mile; and that board having acted in accordance with-the
statute, and having published its schedule of maximum charges, the
Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Comoany filed the bill in this
case in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of South
Dakota, seeking to restrain the enforcement of the schedule. The railroad commissioners answered fully, and testimony was taken before an
examiner upon the issues made by the pleadings. This testimony was
reported without findings of fact or conclusion of law. The case Went

