OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

in respect of the State any power prohibited, and it did not
appear that plaintiffs in error were deprived of any benefit
secured by either of those provisions.
Plaintiffs in error pointed out no provision of the Constitution, or of any law of the United States, forbidding the making of contracts payable in gold coin of the United States,
but contended that contracts so made payable were void
because opposed to public policy. The state Circuit Court,
however, simply held plaintiffs in error to respond in lawful
money, and entered its decree accordingly, and the Supreme
Court decided that plaintiffs in error could not complain of
that decree, because not prejudiced thereby. This was not a
decision against any right secured by the Constitution or laws
of the United States specially set up or claimed by plaintiffs
Writ of error dimissed.
in error in those courts.

LINDSAY AND PHELPS COMPANY v. MULLEN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
No. 44. Argued April 6, 1, 1899. -Decided January 15,1900.
The provision in ยง 2400 of the statutes of Minnesota of 1894, requiring each
surveyor general to survey all logs and timbers running out of any boom
now chartered or which may hereafter be chartered by law in his district, refers to corporations organized under a general law, as well as to
those whose organization is provided for by special act.
The business of booming logs on the waters of streams running through
the forests of the West is a lawful business, add the Minnesota Boom
Company was a lawfully organized corporation for the purpose of doing
such lawful business.
The statute of Minnesota requiring all logs running out of a .boom to be
surveyed, inspected and scaled is compulsory, and such legislation was
within the power of the State.
The scale bills in this case were certified as required by the laws of the
State, and, being so certified, were competent evidence; and, when taken
in connection with other evidence, supported the affding of the court
that the work was done as alleged.
A record in the books of the surveyor general is not preliminary to a right
to a lien for such work.

LIXDSAY ATD PHELPS COMTANY v. MULLEN.

12T

Statement of the Case.
The logs of one party passing the boom can be subjected to a lien for surveying and scaling not only his own logs, but also for surveying and
scaling the logs of other parties, as any log owner may send his logs
down the river without the use of the boom, taking proper care of them,
and if he uses the boom he takes it subject to the conditions prescribed
by the legislature.
The improvement made in the Mississippi River by the construction of the
boom and its works, and the exaction of reasonable charges for the use
of such works, including fees of state officials for inspecting and scaling,
if done under state authority, cannot be considered in any just sense a
burden upon interstate commerce.

ON -August 1, 1893, the plaintiff in error commenced its
action of replevin against one of the defendants in error, John
11. Mullen, to recover possession of a quantity of logs said to
be of the value of $15,000. Mullen answered, alleging that
he was the surveyor general of logs and lumber for the fourth
district of Minnesota; that as such surveyor general he had
scaled and surveyed a large number of logs in a boom belonging to the Minnesota Boom Company, for which service he
was entitled to fees amounting to the sum of $11,088.92, and
had seized these logs, under the statute giving him a lien,
to enforce payment thereof, and praying for a return of the
property, or, if that could not be had, for judgment for the
sum of $11,088.92, together with ten per cpnt, $1108.89, costs
of collection as provided by law, and interest. To this answer
the plaintiff filed a reply, challenging on several grounds the
validity of the claim for fees and lien. Thereafter the State
of Minnesota was, on its application, made a party defendant,
and answered setting forth in substance that since the filing
of the pleadings the defendant Mullen had received from the
State of Minnesota the full amount of his fees, and had transferred his claim to the State, and adopting the answer of Mullen, so far as it was applicable. On these pleadings the case
went to trial before the court without a jury. No special
findings of fact were made, but only a general finding for defendants. A bill of exceptions was preserved, reciting the
testimony, showing that at the close the plaintiff requested of
the court the following declarations:
"First. That it has not been shown that the logs for which

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

defendants claim fees for scaling in this case ever ran into
or through any boom chartered by law and therefore the defendants have no right to the fees claimed or to any lien on
the plaintiff's logs therefor; but the court refused to make
such declaration; to which ruling and order the plaintiff then
and there duly excepted.
"Second. That the defendants have not -shown themselves
entitled to any lien upon the plaintiff's logs:
"a. Because the scale bills, Defendants' Exhibits 3 and 4,
are not evidence of the scaling of the logs therein described.
"b. Because it appears affirmatively that the said scale bills
were not, nor were either of them, recorded in any book in
the office of the surveyor general-of that district.
". Because it appears that a very great proportion of the
logs mentioned in these scale bills, defendants' exhibits 3 and
4, were not the plaintiff's logs, and that the work done was
-not done at the request of the plaintiff or anybody else.
"d. -Because the pretended records of said scale bills were
not in fact any record whatever.
"e. Because it does not appear that any of the log marks
shown on defendants' scale bills, Exhibits 3 and 4, were ever
recorded in the office of the surveyor general of logs and lumber of the fourth lumber district of the State of Minnesota, in
accordance with the provisions of title 3, of chapter 32, General Statutes of the State of Minnesota.
"But the court refused to make such declaration; to which
ruling and order the plaintiff duly excepted.
"Third. That the statute under which the defendants claim
a right to scale these logs and recover fees therefor, and
to a lien on the plaintiff's logs therefor, is, as applied to
the place and business where this scaling was done, an attempted regulation by the State of interstate commerce and
is unconstitutional and void, being in contravention of subdivision 4, of section 8, of article 1, of the Constitution of
the United States."
Upon the general finding the court entered a judgment
-for the defendants for a return of the property or the payment of the fees, costs and interest. Thereupon the plain-

LINDSAY AND PHELPS COMPANY v. MULLEN.

129

Statement of the Case.

tiff brought the case directly to this court by writ of error on
the ground that the laws of M innesota, under which these
fees and lien were claimed, were in contravention of the
Constitution of the United States.
The fapts developed on the trial, and upon which the questions of raw arise, are these: The State of Minnesota was by
law divided into five districts for the inspectioin of logs and
lumber. The fourth district was defined as follows: "The
Mississippi River and its tributaries below the outlet of Lake
Pepin to the southern line of Wabasha County." The -defendant Mullen was the duly appointed and qualified surveyor
general of logs and lumber for this district, and as such performed the services tor which the fees and lien were claimed.
The Minnesota Boom Company was a corppration organized?
under the general laws of the State of Minnesota in April,
1889. The purposes for which the corporation was organized
are stated in article 1 of its charter:
"The general nature of the corporate business shall .be the
construction, maintenance and use of booms, dams and all other
structures of any kind necessary or advantageous for the performance of the logging and lumbering business hereinafter
described, upon the Mississippi River, or'either bank thereof,
between the mouth of the Chippewa River, or a point opposite
thereto, and the point where the easterly boundary line of the
city of Winona meets the Mississippi River or a point opposite
thereto, and also upon, or on any side or bank of, any slough,
bayou, branch :or part of the Mississippi River between
or connecting with saidriver at any point between the extreme limits aforesaid.
The business of the corporation
beside the construction, maintenance and operation of said
structures shall be gathering, driving, booming, storing, assorting, rafting, brailing and otherwise handling any and all
logs, lumber and timber of any kind, between the limits and
upon the waters and territory above stated, for any and all
persons having any logs, lumber or timber upon any of said
waters or within said territory and this corporation shall
have the right to charge and receive, and shall charge and
receive, from any and all persons upon or in connection with
VOL. CLXXVI-9

130",

OCTOBER TERM1, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

those logs, lumber or timber for any work or services done
by this corporation, a proper sum and compensation by it
to be fixed for such work or services, and this corporation
shall also do any other business incident to any part of the
general business aforesaid."
It constructed a boom on West iNewton Slough, within the
limits of the fourth inspection district, above defined. This
slough is an arm or minor channel o. the Mississippi River,
bounded on its southwestern side by the main land, constituting the State of Minnesota, and on the other side by
an island, extending up and down the river about three miles,
and dividing this slough from the main channel of the river.
The works of the boom were in this slough, but at the upper
end of the island, extending diagonally across the river to
the Wisconsin- shore, was a structure called a shear boom,
so arranged that when closed it turned all the logs 5 oming
down the river into the upper end of the boom: When one
end of it 'was released it floated down the stream and thus
allowed free passage up and down the main channel. Above
the head of this boom the Chippewa River empties into the
Mississippi. The Chippewa River is wholly within the limits
of the State of Wisconsin, and the logs, which this boom was
constructed to secure, and which in fact it did secure, were
mainly logs coming out of that river and which had been cut
within the limits of the State of Wisconsin.
The statutes of Minnesota, so far as they are pertinent to
this inquiry, in reference to booms, scaling and surveying, are
the following:
"Any corporation formed under this title, in whole or in
part for the improvement of any stream and driving logs
therein, or for holding or handling logs therein, which shall
have taken prior possession of such stream, or any considerable portion thereof,,upon which portion no other person or
corporation has erected any dams-or other improvements, and
which may have need of improvement for that purpose, shall
have power to improve such streams and its tributaries by clearing and straightening the channels thereof, closing sloughs,
erecting sluiceways, booms of all kinds, side, rolling, sluicing

LINDSAY AND PHELPS COMPANY v. MULLEN.

131

Statement of the Case.

and flooding dams, or otherwise if necessary, but shall in no
case, in any manner, materially obstruct or impede navigation
upon such stream or erect any dam or other obstruction below
the head of steamboat navigation. Every such corporation
which shall so improve a stream and so keep in repair, and
operate its works so as to render driving logs thereon reasonably practicable and certain, may charge and collect reasonable
and uniform tolls upon all logs, lumber and timber, driven,
sluiced or floated on the same, and may take possession of all
logs put into such stream or upon rolways, so as to impede
the drive when the owners thereof or their agents shall not
have come upon the stream adequately provided with men,
teams and tools for -breaking the rollways and driving such
logs in season for making a thorough drive down such stream
without hindering the main drive; and shall also, at the request
of the owner of any logs and timber put into said streams, take
charge of the same, and drive the same down and out of such
stream, or down such stream so far as their improvements may
extend, and charge and collect therefor of the owner or party
controlling said logs and timber reasonable charges and expenses for such services. An& such corporation shall for all
such tolls, costs and expenses have a lien on the logs for
which same was incurred, and may seize, in whosever possession found, and hold a sufficient amount thereof to pay the
same, and make sale thereof upon giving ten (10) days' notice
in the manner provided for notifying sales on execution upon
the judgment of-justices of the peace, or may. enforce such liens
as other liens are enforced by proper proceedings for that pqrpose, or may ask, demand, sue for, collect and receive from
the owner or owners of such logs the amount due for any such
tolls. No injunctional order shall be granted to prevent the
use or enjoyment of any such improvement, or abate any such
dam necessary thereto unless such corporation shall- fail for
sixty (60) days after judgment, from which no appeal has
been taken, to pay any damages recovered for any injury
done by or in consequence of its works. Any corporation
formed for the improvement .of a st'ream, which is in whole
or in part a boundary between this and an adjoining State,

132

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

and authorized to drive logs or maintain booms or dams in
such stream, shall have authority to purchase and hold stock
in corporation or corporations in such adjoining State created
for similar purposes upon the same stream, or to consolidate
or otherwise unite with such corporation or corporations in
such adjoining State, whenever the purposes for which the
corporation in this State is organized can be better effected
thereby. Provided, that no such purchase or consolidation
or other union shall be made without the assent of holders
of two thirds (f) of the capital stock of such first (1st) named
company. Provided, that all da;ms and other works erected
under the authority given by this act shall be so constructed,
used and operated as to facilitate and expedite the driving
and handling logs and lumber upon the stream upon which
the same may be erected, and the corporation making such
improvements hereunder shall have no right to stop logs destined for points below its works on. said. stream except where
dams have been constructed to accumulate water for sluicing
logs and flushing the river below the same, and in such case
shall not detain logs in any part of the river so as to form a
jam or prevent the prompt deliv3ry of logs destined for points
below the works constructed under authority of this act."
(Section 2 of chapter 221 of the laws of the State of Minnesota for the year 1889. Act of April 24, 1889.)
"Each surveyor general, by himself or deputy, shall survey
all logs and timber running out of any boom now chartered,
or which may hereafter be chartered by law in his district,
and at the end of each month, when he has surveyed any
such logs or timber, make out and deliver to the owner of
such boom, or the managing aigent thereof, a true and correct
scale bill, stating the date of. such survey, the number of logs
and pieces of timber, the marks thereon respectively, and the
number of feet of each mark so surveyed during the month,
and shall sign the same; and he shall immediately record
such bill in the books of his office, and, upon being paid his
fees for such services, shall deliver the original bill to the
owner or managing agent of such boom; and all boomage
or fees of such boom on any logs or timber shall be collected

LINDSAY AND PHELPS COMPANY v. MULLEN.

133

Statement of the Case.

in accordance with such survey. And all scale bills heretofore
made and signed by any such surveyor general, or the record
thereof in the respective offices of such surveyor general, or
6opies of such records duly certified, shall, in all courts of this
State, be prima facie evidence of the matters stated in such
scale bill, record or copy." (Section 14 of chapter 32, title 3,
of the General Statutes of Minnesota for 1866, being now sec-.
tion 2400 of. the Statutes of Minnesota of 1894.)
"The fees of surveyor generals shall be: For surveying,
scale marking, making scale bills and recording the same and
posting in the ledger, five cents per thousand feet for all logs
and timber required to be surveyed;. for surveying lumber,
twenty-five cents per thousand feet; for travelling to perform
any service more than two niiles from their respective offices,
five cents per mile going and returning; for recording any
log mark, fifty cents; for making and certifying a copy of
any matter which may be of record in his office, or for making any duplicate scale bill, ten cents per folio; for recording
any instrument in writing authorized to be recorded in his
office, other than scale bills, ten dents per folio, payable when
such instrument is presented for record and before it is
recorded, and no such instrument shall be deemed to be
recorded until it is entered upon the index to the record.
And for the purpose of'securing to the surveyor general the
payment of his fees, whether the same are for travelling, surveying, making scale 'bills, orrecording the same, or for any
or all of such services, such surveyor general shall have a lien
upon all such logs, timber or lumber surveyed and marked by
him, for the amount due for his services thereon, and may retain such lien by affixing to the scale bill of such logs, timber
or lumber, before the delivery thereof, a true statement of the
amount due him thereon, and that he scaled such logs, timber
or lumber, relying upon such lien, and that he claims 'a lien
thereon for such amount, and costs .of collection ; and thereupon such surveyor general may take actual possession of a
sufficient quantity of such logs, timber or lumber, and may
retain the same until he is paid the amount due him thereon,
and iuch logs, timber or lumber shall not be removed or

OCTOBER' TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

taken from the possession or control of such surveyor general
until such payment is made. If the amount is not paid within
sixty days after the delivery of such scale bill, the surveyor
general may sell at public auction enough of such logs, timber
or lumber to pay the amount due him, with the costs of col- lection, first giving ten days' notice of such sale, by posting
up five written notices thereof, one in his office, and one in
each of the four most public places in the town or city where
the sale is to be made; and- at such sale the surveyor general
may become the purchaser. The sale may be made .by the
sheriff or any constable of the county, and the only costs of

collection allowed shall be ten per cent on the amount due,
for taking care of the property and, to the officer making the
sale, ten per cent on the amount payable to the surveyor general." (Section 16 of chapter 32 of the General Statutes of
1866, being section 2402 of the Statutes of 1894.)
"The books of record in the surveyor general's office in
each district shall be: .
"First. A book in which shall be recorded the log mark
of any person desiring to have the same recorded.
",Second. A book in which shall be recorded all bills of
sale, mortgages and orders, and other instruments in writing
for the sale, transfer, incumbrance or other delivery of any
logs or timber in the saine district.
"Third. A book in which shall be recorded the scale bills
of all the logs, timber and lumber surveyed by the surveyor
general.
"Fourth. A book, to be kept in ledger form, in which shall
be posted and recorded, as soon as any logs or timber is surveyed, separately and under their respective marks, all the
logs and timber of each particular mark surveyed, together
with the date of scale, the number of logs and the number of
pieces of timber, to whom scaled, if to any one, and the number of feet, which book shall be kept posted up so that it will
show the matter above stated concerning each mark of logs
scaled during each month. And the surveyor general shall
make and deliver to any person authorized to demand the
same, a certified transcript of said record, as to any mark or

LINDSAY AND PHELPS COMPANY iv. MULLEN.

180

Statement of the Case.

marks of logs or timber, upon being paid the fees prescribed
in section sixteen of this chapter, and the sum of twenty-five
cents for his certificate of the same; and an index of the
names and marks contained in each Qf said books shall also be
kept. Any books of the description before named, which have
been kept in the office of any such surveyor general and
which belong to said office, are hereby declared to be the
records of said office, and to have and be of the same validity,
force and effect as if the-same had been kept by express
authority of law. All the books of, record hereinbefore mentioned and authorized to be kept in the office of any surveyor
general are hereby declared to be public records, and of as
high degree of evidence as the original instrument therein
recorded, and shall, in all courts and. places in this State, be
taken and held' to be prima.facie bideuce of the matters
therein stated; and such books shall not be removed from the
surveyor general's office, but any paper purporting to be a
copy of any matter or thing of record in such office, certified
under the hand. of the surveyor general or his deputy to be
a correct transcript from the records in such office, shall, in all
the courts of this State, be received and read as primafacie
evidence of the matters and things in such record contained,
and of the matters therein stated." (General Statutes 1866,
chap. 32, title 3, see. 17. As amended 1877, chap. 18, sec. 3,
being now sec. 2403 of the Statutes of Minnesota of 1894.)
In addition to these statutes must'be noticed chap. 401,
Laws of Minnesota, 1895, which is entitled "An act for the
relief of John H; Mullen, and to appropriate money therefor,"
the first two sections of which are as follows:
"SEc. 1. That the sum of fifteen thousand eight hundred
(15,800) dollars be, and the same is hereby appropriated out of
any money in the state treasury not otherwise appropriated
for the relief of John H. Mullen for disbursements made .and
expenses incurred by him while in the performance of his duty
as .surveyor general of the fourth district of the State of Minnesota, in accordance with the instruction of the Governor;
and the state auditor is hereby instructed to draw his warrant
upon the state treasurer for said amount and deliver the same

13

OCTOBER, TERM, 1899
Opinion of, the Court..

to said Mullen, and the state treasurer is berebr directed to
pay the-same."SEc. 2. Before, said payment is made said 'Mullen shall
'assign to th6 State of Minnesota any and all claims which he
.may have for labor performed and expenses and disbursements
incurred as such surveyor general, and thereupon the State of
Minnesota shall proceed to collect the same in the name of
said, Mullen or otherwise, as the attorney general may direct,
and either by actions now pending or which may hereafter be
-brought. In case the State of Minnesota shall recover more
'th4n the amount hereby appropriated the remainder shall be
paid over to said Mullen in the same manner as provided by
section one (1) of this act."
Under the .authority of this statute the defendant Mullen
received: payment of the amount charged for fees, etc., and
assigned his claim to the SLate, 'and under and by virtue of
this assignment the State became a party to' this litigation,
as heretofore stated.
. r. Newell H. Clavp for plaintiff in error.
Clvip filed a brief for same.

_H'.

fose8

_E.

-Mr. WY'allace B. Dougla8 for defendants in error. Mrb. H.
W. Ohilds. was on his brief.
Mr. JusTioEc BRF.P.R, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
Upon the foregoing facts the plaintiff contends: First. That'
the boom at the West Newton Slough, through w.hich the
logs scaled by the defendant Mullen passed was not "any boom
.
chartered by law" within the scope of section 2400 of
the Statutes of 189-:. This contention cannot be sustained.
The words "chartered by law" are not to be understood as
referring simply to- corporations incorporated under special
acts. A corporation which is organized under a general law
is as much "chartered by law" as one whose organization
is provided for by special act. So that on the face of this

LINDSAY AND PHELPS COMPANY w, MULLEN.

137

Opinion of the Court.

statute, and giving to its words their-natural meaning, it
includes every corporation, whether incorporated under general or special law, with authority to maintain a boom. The
mere fact that in early times four special charters were granted
to boom companies 'cannot work any limitation upon the
meaning of the words used in this statute. If the legislature
of Minnesota had purposed any such distinction, its language
would have been more apt. It would not have used words
broad enough to have included any corporation of the kind
described.
As a matter of fact, this corporation was organized some
eighteen days befbre chapter 221 of the Laws of 1889 was
passed. ''Prior to that time there was an act (General Statute
Minnesota, 1866, chap. 31, see. 1, as amended by chap. 13, Laws
Minnesota, 1873) which authorized the formation of corporations for various purposes named, and also 11 other lawful
business." Under that statute this corporation was formed.
That the business of booming logs on the waters of streams
running through the forests of the West is a lawful. business
cannot be doubted.
In City of ,Erie v. Canfleld, 27 Michigan, 479, 482, the
Supreme Court of Michigan said:
"It is clear that on a river like the Manistee, which is navi- i
gable by steamers for a long distance, but down. which logs
by the million are floated and gathered in booms every season
- where in fact the principal industry - consists in' cutting,
floating and manufacturing into lumber the forests in its
vicinity, and where the rivbr is more valuable for this floatage
than for any other navigation; the necessity and convenience
of this floatage must be considered in any rules laid down for_
the public use of the stream, and the need of booming facilities
to render the floatage of value. Indeed, to take away the
privilege of booming would be to strike a fatal blow at the
principal commerce onth.e stream; for the vessels which ply
between Manistee and other ports are loaded principally with
the lumber which the mills along the shores of Manistee lake
and river are enabled, by means of the privilege of' floating
and booming logs upon these waters, to manufacture and place.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

upon the market. -It is just and reasonable, therefore, and
conducive to the best interests of commerce, that the right of
navigating the river should be exercised with due regard to
the necessity for boming facilities, and the former is not
so far paramount as to render the latter a nuisance whenever
and wherever it encroaches upon waters navigable by the
large vessels which enter this stream."
And in Pound v. Turek, 95 U. S. 459, 464, is a clear recognition of the.lawfulness of this booming industry, as appears
from the followving quotation:
",There are within the State of Wisconsin, and perhapsother States, many small streams navigable for a short dis-.
tance from. their mouths in one of the great rivers of the coun-try, by steamboats, but whose greatest value in water "carriage
is as outlets to sawed logs, sawed lumber, coal, salt, etc. In
order to develop their greatest utility in' that regard, it is
often essential that suich structures as dams, booms, piers, etc.,
should be used, which are substantial obsttuctions to general
'navigation, and more or less so to rafts and barges. But to
the legislature of the State may be -most appropriately confided the authority to authorize these structures where their
use will do riore good than harm, and to impose such regulations and Jimitationg in their construction and use as will best
-reconcile and ac~oiumodate the interest of all cohcerned in the
matter."
Indeed, it would strike a-serious blow at the legislation of
many of the Northwestern States and an immense volume of
business -that has been carried on under the authority of that
legislation, to hold that the booming of logs was not a lawful
business.
That those words, "other lawful business," as found in the
statute are not to be-narrowly construed, but are broad enough
,to include an Incorporation for this purpose, is made clear by
the decision of the- Supreme Court of Minnesota in Brown v.
Corbini,40 Mininesota, 508, 609, in which the court said:
"Defendants hivoke the rule that when particular words
are followed by general ones, the general words are restricted
in meaning to objects of the kind particularly enumerated,

LINDSAY AND PHELPS COMPANY w. MULLEN.

139.

Opinion of the Court.
and therefore that the phrase ' or other lawful business) must
be limited to a business of the same kind as those previously
enumerated. We think the rule invoked is not applicable, at
least in the narrow and restricted sense, in which defendants
seek to apply it. The kinds of business specifically enumerated bear no common analogy to each other except that they
are all for pecuniary profit, and of a strictly private character
as distinguished from those to be carried on by guasi public-.
corporations authorized to exercise the right of eminent dQmain. Evidently the expression 'or other lawful business'
was added as a sort of catch.alU, for the purpose of including
any kind of business for pecuniary profit ndt elsewhere provided for, and which might have been omitted from the previous particular enumeration."
The corporation then having a legal existence at the time
the act of 1889 was passed, section 3 of the act expressly provided that it should apply to corporations previously organized
for the purposes specified in section 2. 'In other .words, all
the rights, privileges and powers conferred by the act of 1889
were by this section given to existing corporationg. So that
we have the case of a corporation, organized under the general law of the State, given by subsequent statute full powers
in reference to the maintenance of a boom, and in fact maintaining a boom; and the cas6 therefore comes within the
specific description in section 24d0 of a' boom chartered by
law.
Further than that, the 'legislature 6f Mvinnesota accepted the
claim of the surveyor :Mullen as valid under its laws, and thus
impliedly recognized the boom company, involved in this obritroversy, as one chartered -by law within the scope of the
statutes providing for inspection, scaling and charges therefor.
. The second contention is that the statutes of MNinnesota
were not intended to and do not in fact-give the" survbyor
general any lien upon the log~os of privaie parties for inspedting
and scaling logi run through chartered booms. :Reference is
made by counsel to several statutes in .whinh"there 'is provision
for the action of the surveyor general in .surveying and scaling lumber at the instance of parties interested. We deem it

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

unnecessary to investigate those statutes, for the sections
quoted plainly indicate that the survey and scaling in case of
a chartered boom is not solely at the instance of the owner or
owners of the logs, but is compulsory. Section 2400 declares
that. "the surveyor general, by himself or deputy, shall survey
all logs and timber running out of any boom now chartered
or which may hereafter be chartered by law in his district."
To those unfamiliar with the logging business as carried on in
the timber regions of the North and Northwest this compul.sory surveying and scaling may seem unnecessary, but all
*legislation may rightfully be adjusted to the actual operations'
of business, being intended to facilitate those operations'and
protect all who are engaged therein. Many are engaged in
the cutting of logs in these lumber districts. That business
is facilitated by any system wHich permits those parties to
turn their logs into an adjacent stream and let them float
down to some place where they can be collected and byailed.
In that way each individual cutter is saved the necessity of
brailing his logs at every place where he may bring them to
the water. The several States in which these, lumber districts
are situated have assumed the power of taking charge of these
logs thus put singly into a stream, collecting them at one
place, separating them to their respective owners, and thus
facilitating the forwarding in raft to market. Of course, such
work entails expense, and the expense is rightfully -charged
upon the property thus separated and marked. The thought.
in this respect is well' expressed by the Supreme Court of
Minnesota in Osborne v. KYnife Falls Boom Corp.,,32 Minnesota, 412, 419:'
"Now it appears that there ii a large number -of persons
owning standing timber upon the upper waters of
the St.-Louis and upon its tributaries, who must float theirlogs to -market down the St. Louis, some to Fond du Lac,
Duluth or Superior, and some to Cloquet, or other points
above and near Knife River Falls. The interest of the latter
requires that their logs should be stopped before passing
Knife River Falls; the interest of the former that their logs
should be allowed to run over them without interruption. In

LINDSAY AND PHELPS COMPANY v. MULLEN.

144

Opinion' of the Court

this conflict who. is to determine how the right of floatage
upon this common highway shall be enjoyed? Who is to fix
upon theijust and proper compromise of these conflicting interests I Obviously, the .legislature - that department of government which, in the exercise of a lawmaking and a police
power, prescribes the rules by which the use of-public high.ways' in*general is regulated, Pound v. fTrck, 95 U. S. 459;
Wats v. Tittabaia88ee Boom Co., 52 .Michigan- 203, and save.
as controlled by paramount law -that is to say, in this instance, by our state constitution or "enabling act -the discretion of the legislature in the premises is practically unlimited.
It may enact .laws prescribing the manner in which the common right of floatage shall be enjoyed. 'It may determine
what means shall be adopted, and by what agency, to secure
reults which, in its judgment, are the best and fairest practical compromise of conflicting interests - the best attainable
good of all .concerned. Pound v. Turck, 8upra; , DulutA
Lumber Co. v. St.. oui8 Boom Co., 17 Fed. Rep. 419. In
the exercis.e of its legislative discretion it may authorize suitable means and instrumentalities to secure this end to be provided and-employed by a private person or by a corporation,
and it may prescribe what these means and instrumentalitiesmay be, as booms, dams, piers, sluiceways, and what use may
be made of them, and, in general, in what manner the business shall- be conducted.

.

.

.

On the whole, this is an

improvement, of the river for the benefit of all concerned in
its use, and one for which it is therefore competent for the
legislature to require those using the river to make compensation."
In furtherance of the thought thus expressed the legislature
of-Minnesota has given the right to- boom companies duly
incorporated to take possession of the'great mass of floating
logs coming down a stream, and requires that those logs thus
taken possession of shall be inspected and scaled under the
supervision of some state official. In that way each individ-.
ual owner and cutter has a guarantee of safety in respect to
his logs, and the general interests are so manifestly subserved
that there can be no reasonable doubt of the legislative power

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opipion of the Court.

of supervision, inspection and scaling. And the language of
the statute being mandatory, we are of the opinion that such
was the intent of the legislature, and that such legislation is
within its power.
A third proposition is, that it is not shown that the defendant, Mullen, -omplied with the statutes of the State of Minnesota which give a lien on logs so as to be entitled to any lien
on these logs, or any right of possessipn thereof, and it is with
reference to this matter that the -second declaration of law
was asked by the plaintiff. The contentions of the plaintiff
in 4his respect seem to be, first, that the scale bills were not ofthemselves competent evidence, and that without them there
was no clear and satisfactory evidence of the number of feet surveyed and scaled ; second, that because they were not rec6rded
in the books of the surveyor general the right to a .lien had
not arisen;- and, third, that the testimony shows that the logs
'in fact surveyed and scaled and for which thesb fees and lien
were claimed were not all the property of this plaintiff.
With reference to the general proposition that the defendant, Mullen, by himself and deputies, was busy in scaling logs
in that boom during the months named, there is abundant
testimony, and when-the question is only as to the sufficiency
of testimony to establish a given fact, it is enough to say
that this court does not inquire into the mere matter of sufficiency. Matters,'if fact are settled by a verdict of a jury or
the general finding of a court, and if there be testimony fairly
tending to support the finding, it is-conclusive in this court.
But we are not disposed to question the competency of
the scale bills as evidence. Section 2403 provides that the
books of the surveyor general's office "are hereby declared
to be. public records, and of as high -degree of evidence as
the original instrument therein recorded, and' shall, in all
courts and places in this State, be taken and held to be prima
facie evidence of the matters therein stated." In other words,
the records, like the original instrument, are porima facie evidence of the matters stated in them. Clark v. C. N. Nel,8on
Lumber Comapany, 34 Minnesota, 289 ; Glaspie v. IReator, 12
U. S. App. 281, 290. In both of those cases scale bills some-

LLNDSAY AND PHELPS COMPANY v. MULLEN.

143

Opinion of the Court.

what defective in form were declared under the statute competent evidence. Attached to the scale bills herein was a
certificate of the surveyor general stating, as required by
section 2402, the amount due him thereon, and that he scaled
the logs, timber or lumber relying upon the lien, and that he
claimed a lien thereon for the amount thereof and costs of
collection. The scale bills, thus certified, were delivered to
the managing agent of the boom company. Now, whatever
suggestions may be made as to the incompleteness of these
scale bills; they were, as thus certified, -competent evidence,
and, when taken in connection with the other evidence of
work actually done by the surveyor general hndhis deputies,
was testimony fairly tending to support the general finding
of the court, and we are not at liberty to ignore the effect of
that finding.
With regard to the second 'contention, we do not understand that a record in the books of the surveyor general is
preliminary to a right to any -lien. By section 2402 he is
given a lien for certain services; and while it is true that by
section 2400 he is required to record the scale bills in the
books of his office, and upon being paid his fees therefor to
deliver the original bill to the owner, or managing agent of
the boom, yet for any services other than the mere making of
the record we are of the opinion that under the two sections
referred to he establishes his lien by the rendering. -f the
services and affixing to the scale bill the prescribed certificate.
With respect to the final contention under this head, that
the logs of the plaintiff, seized by the surveyor general, were
so seized under a claim of lien for services rendered in inspecting and scaling logs other than those of the plaintiff as well
as its own, the fact is as claimed. An important question is
thus presented wh-ether the logs of one party can be subjected
to a lien for surveying and scaling, not only his own logs, but
also for surveying and scaling logs belonging to other parties.
The statement naturally suggests a negative answer, and
ordinarily it may be affirmed that no man's property can be
subject to a lien for services rendered upon some other man's
property. And yet, under the circumstances of the case, we

OCTOBER TERM, 1899
Opinion of the Court.

are constrained to hold that the lien was good, and must be
enforced for the entire amount claimed. And this upon the
proposition that for the purposes of a lien the boom company
must be considered in a qualified sense the owner of all logs
thai it takes into its possession. The'legislature in providing
for a lien recognizes only the boom company. By section 2
of chapter 221 it gives the company authority to establish a
boom, -construct all the works necessary for its successful
operation; then empowers it to take possession of all logs"
floating down the stream (with certain exceptions not necessary to be noted in this connection), and in and by the conveniences of said boom to sort and brail all logs which it
takes *possession of; to "charge and collect reasonable, and
uniform tolls," and have a lien for the tolls, and all costs and
expenses; hold a sufficient amount of the logs received to pay
the same, and to make sale thereof in default of payment
upon ten days' notice. Involved in the costs and expenses is
the fee for inspection and scaling, as provided by the laws of
the State, and the inspector is required to give at the end of
each month'to the owner or managing agent of the boom a
true and correct scale bill for all the services he has rendered.
So,while the owner of the logs may obtain from the surveyor
general a certified copy of the inspection and scaling, yet the
inspector deals in the first instance with the boom company.
To it he gives his scale bill, properly certified, and by virtue
thereof he is given'a lien upon the logs inthe custody of
the boom company. The boom company, for its protection, is given a lien on the logs of each owner. Obviously
there was seen to be a practical difficulty in, limiting the lien
of the surveyor general for his services in inspecting and scaling to the logs separately upon which the services were rendered. Tho logs are turned into the custody of the boom
company. It arranges for their separation and brailing, and
delivers them, when thus brailed, to the owner as demanded.
The fees for the surveyor general's services were therefore
Made chargeable to the boom company, and under its charter
it h 4 authority to collect from each log owner all charges
and epenses, including therein the fees due the surveyor

LINDSAY AND PHELPS COMPANY v. MULLEN.

145

Opinion of the Court.

.

general. The log owner dealt with the boom company, and
had a right to call from that company for a delivery of his
logs duly brailed or rafted whenever he saw fit. To require
the surveyor general to stand watch at the exit of the boom
to demand of each log owner his fees, or in. default of payment to seize the logs thus ready for their future transit
down the river, would cast upon the surveyor general not
merely the duty of inspecting and scaling, but also, for his
own protection, the duty of keeping an additional watch to
secure the payment of 'his fees. It was not unreasonable on
the part of the legislature, when it gave the boom company
a lien upon all logs turned into the boom, to require that it
should be responsible to the surveyor general for his fees, and
that he, looking to the boom company for payment thereof,should have a right to enforce a lien upon any logs turned
into the boom. It cannot be said that there is, in the iiature
of things, such an inseparable connection .between services
rendered and the thing upon which the services are rendered
that a lien for the former can only be enforced upon the latter,
.or even that such lien must be limited to the owner of the
latter, for it is within the 'discretion of the legislature to
determine whether, considering all the circumstances, the use
of a given instrumentality shall not subject the party seeking
that use to a lien upon his property for all the services rendered by the State to the instrumentality. Tak6 the ordinary.
case of a warehouse for the receipt and discharge of grain.
Can it be that the lien for the services of a state inspector
must necessarily attach separately, and only separately, to
each bushel of grain delivered to and received therefrom? Is
it not within the competency of the legislative. power to
declare that the owner of the elevator, like the owner of a
boom, stands, as to all property received into it, as pro tanto
an owner, and to give to any official charged with the duty of
inspection a lien upon any and all of the property thus -received for his services in the matter of inspection, especially
when it gives to the owner of the elevator or the boom a lien
upon the property placed in his possession for all services,
charges and .expenses?
VOL. CLXXV-1O

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

We are of opinion that it was within the power of the
legislature to so provid e. It is not for the courts to inquire
whether any other provision would have been wiser. The
only question for us to consider is whether that which has
been made was within the power of the legislature. It must
be borne in mind that While the lien is given for the services
rendered, the use of the facilties of the boom is not compulsory. We do not mean to say that a log cutter may throw
his logs loosely and separately into the river and let them
float down, trusting to luck that they will do no injury .
Doubtless any one may make hig own raft and send it down
the stream, provided he places in charge of it a sufficient
number of men to suitably protect it from doing injury or
interfering with others in their use of the stream. A main
purpose of the boom is to stop and collect the floating logs,
and the State haying control over .the river as a highway of
navigation may make such provisions for the use of that highwyay by the different parties seeking to use it as will prevent
any injury by one-upon the other. Just as the ordinary land
highways are free to the use of the public, yet it is within the
competency of the legislature to make such provisions as 5vill
prevent the use by one working injury to others; and if a
party wishes to use a highway in a manner which may tend
to work injury to others he cannot complain if the legisla,are interferes and provides some means for preventing such
injury. In that.way it Tay be said that any log ownerrnay
send his logs down the river without the use of the boom, and
when he decides to avail himself of the boom it bannot be
said that he is deprived of hi6 property without due process
of law if he is 'compelled, fo subject it to the conditions which
the legislature prescribes for the use of such boom.
A final objection is that even this boom was one chartered
by law, wyithin the meahing of section 2400, and although the
defendant,, Mullen, had performed all that was required of
him by the statute tosecure a lien, still the la~w as applied to
this boom, and in so far as the logs in question are concerned,
is a regulation of interstate commerce which the State of
Minnesota has no authority to make. It appears that these

LINDSAY AND PHELPS COMPANY v. MULLEN.

147

Opinion of the Court.

logs, and indeed the bulk of the logs passing into this boom,
came out of the Chippewa River, a stregm whbily within the
limits of the State of Wisconsin. The boom company was
chartered by the State of XMinnesota, and its principal works
were within the limits of that. State. Counsel for plaintiff
refer to many decisions of this court in which the general
power of Congress over interstate commerce and the inability
of the State to burdeh in any direct way such commerce have
been &ffirmed. Passing by mQst we may notice these quotations, as illustrating the scope of our. ddcisions. Thus in
County of 7[obile v. Eimball, 102 U. S. 691, it is held that
"commerce with foreign countries and among the States,
strictly considered, consists in intercourse and traffic, including
in these terms navigation, and the transportation and transit
of persons and property;" iid in Gloucest r Fer'y Co. v.
Penn8ylvania, 114 U. S. 1R6, 203: "Commerce among the
States consists of intercourse and traffic between their citizens,
and includes the transportation of persons and property, and
the ndvigation of public waters for that purpose;" and from
Wfabash &c. Railway Co. v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557, 571, this
paragraph is quoted: "But we think it may safely be said,
that state legislatipn which seeks to impose a direct burden
upon interstate commerce, or. to interfere directly with its
freedom, does encroach upon the exclusive power of Congress. The statute now under considekation, in our opinion,
occupies that position; it does not act upon the business
through the local .instruments to be einployed after coming
within the State, but directly upon the business as it comes
into the State from without, or goes out from within. While
it purports only to control the *carrier when engaged within
the State, it must necessarily influence his conduct to sqme
extent, in the managemefit of his business throughout his
entire voyage. It was to' meet just such a case that the commercial clause in the Constitution was adopted. The river
Mississippi passes through or along the borders of ten different States, and its tributaries reach many more. The commerce
upon these waters is iminense, aind its regulation clearly a
matfer of national concern. If each State was at liberty to

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

regulate the conduct of carriers while within its jurisdiction,
the confusion likely to follow could not but be productive of
great inconvenience and unnecessary hardship."
Upon these authorities it is contended that the navigation
of these logs froni the place of cutting in Wisconsin along ti
navigable waters of Minneesota, to their market, wherever it
may be in the lower waters of the kississippi, must be free.
If Minnesota can burden the transit with the expense of
booming, inspection or scaling, why may not Iowa, Illinois,
Missouri and any other State along whose borders the logs
may pass before reaching their destination? Even if a State
may (as would seem to be indicated by the decisions heretofore referred to), for logs cut within its borders, provide booms,
compel their use and enforce payment for the expenses thereof,
because for those logs no interstate commerce has commenced,
yet here Minnesota is directly regulating the transit of logs
cut in another State and passing through its borders on their
way to market. This is undoubtedly the most significant if
not perhaps the only distinctive Federal question presented in
this record.
We are not disposed to limit in the slightest degree the
scope and effect of the decisions referred to. But we are of
opinion that these authorities are not pertinent, and that the
matter is governed by another line of decisions equally clear
and as frequently recognized. The State has a right to improve
the waterways within its limits and to make reasonable charges
for the use of such improvements, at least until Congress interferes, and either itself assumes control of the improvements
or compels their removal. This parallel line of decisions runs
back to the early history of this court. In Willson v. Blackbird Creek Aarsh Company, 2 Pet. 245, it was held that, inasmuch as Congress had passed no act bearing upon the case,
the State of Delaware might authorize the building of a dam
across the Blackbird Marsh Creek, although thereby a navigable waterway was obstructed. In Pound v. T-urck, 95.U. S.
459, the right of a State to make dams, booms and other
instrumentalities to be used in the' navigation of logs and
lumber was adjudged. Other decisions affirmed the power

LINDSAY AND PHELPS COMPANY v. MULLEN.

149

Opinion of tie Court.

of the State to build bridges, even toll bridges, over navigable streams, to construct wharves and charge wharfage. In
Hue v. Glover, 112 U. S. 543, 548, the right of the State "of
Illinois to collect tolls for the passage of vessels through locks
in the Illinois-River was sustained, the court saying:
"The exaction of tolls for passage through the locks is as
compensation for the use of artificial facilities construdted, not
as an impost upon the navigation of the stream. The provision of the clause that the navigable streams should be highways without any tax, imppst or duty, has reference, to their
navigation in their natural state. It did not contemplate that
such navigation might not be improved by artificial means,
by the removal of obstructions, or by the making of dams fordeepening the waters, or by turning into the rivers waters
from other streams to increase their depth. For outlays
'caused by such works the. State may exact reasonable, tolls.
They are like charges for the use of wharves and docks constructed to facilitate the landing of persons aifd freight, and
the taking them on board, or for the repair of vessels."
In Sand8 v. fXanifstee .1iver Improvement Co., 123 U. S.
288, 295, a corporation had been authorized by the State of
Michigan to improve the Manistee River, and to charge tolls
for the use of the improvement. An action to collect tolls
was resisted on the ground that the imposition was a taking
of property without .dueprocess of law, Which contention was
overruled, and in the course of'the opinion it was said:
"The Manistee River is wholly within the limits of Michigan. The State, therefore, .can authorize any improvement
which in its judgment will enhance its yalue as 9 means of
transportation from one part of the State to another. The
internal commerce of a State -that is, the commerce which
is wholly confined within its .limits -is as much under its
control as foreign or interstate commerce is under the control
of the general government; and, to encourage the growth of
this commerce and render it safe, the States may provide for
the removal of obstructions from their rivers and harbors, and
deepen their channels, and improve them in other ways,.if, as
is said in County of .Mobile v. Ri 4iall, the free navigation of

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

those waters, as permitted under the laws of the United States,
is-not impaired, or any system for the improvement of their
navigation provided by the general government is not defeaied.
102-U. S. 691, 699. And to meet the cost of such- improvements, the States may levy a general tax or lay a toll upon
all who use the rivers and harbors as improved. The improvements are, in that respect, like Wvharves and docks constructed
to facilitate commerce in loading and unloading vessels. (He
v. Glover, 119 U. S. 543, 548.) Regulations of tolls or charges
in such cases are mere matters of administration, under the
entire control of the State."
Many other cases of similar import might be cited, but
these are enough to disclose the principle which is clearly
recognized.
The principal works of the boom company are wholly
within the State of Minnesota.

The centre of the main

channel of the Mississippi River is northeast of the island.
The State of Minnesota had therefore the undoubted right
to improve this portion of the Mississippi River lying southwest of the island for the purpose of facilitating thb navigation of logs. It could do the work itself, or could authorize
a corporation to do the work, and it could prescribe any
reasonable fees for the use of the improvement. The power
of the State to authorize the construction of these works did
not depend at all upon the question whence all or most of
the logs likely to be run into the boom should come. It is
enough that the State authorized this improvement and prescribed the.conditions upon which it might be used by any
owner of logs. These conditions are not shown to be unreasonable. It is a legitimate exercise of power on the part of
a State to provide state supervision of what is done in works
of such a character, and to require payment of reasonable
charges for such supervision. It does not appear that the
plai'tiff was compelled. to avail itself of this boom; that its
logs were forcibly seized by the boom company, and against
its will passed through the boom. On the contrary, it would
seem hot improbable from the testimony that the persons who
organized and owned the boom company were engaged in the.

LINDSAY- AND PHELPS COMPANY v. MULLEN.

151

Opinion of the Court.

business of cutting logs on the Chippewa River, and that this
litigation sprang from their desire to get all the benefits of
the. boom without submission to the inspection laws of the
State, which gave authority for the works. At any rate, if
this plaintiff wanted to take advantage of the conveniences
furnished by the boom, it is not in a position to avoid compliance with these provisions of the statutes of the State
which authorized the construction of the works.
It is true that that which is called.a "shear b6om" extended
across the navigable channel of the :Mississippi and to near the
Wisconsin shore; but if neither the State of Wisconsin nor
the United States complained of this as an obstruction of the
navigation of the Mississippi, it does not lie in the mouth of
the plaintiff to complain. Indeed, its complaint is not that
the shear boom interfered with its rights of navigation in any
way, but that after its logs had been passed into the works
congtructed under fhe authority and within the limits of the
State of Minnesota it was not permitted to avail itself of the
advantages furnished thereby and repudiate the charges prescribed by the State.
Before passing from a consideration of the right of this
boom company under its charter to place the shear boom
across the main channel of the Mississippi it may not be
inappropriate to notice a decision of the Supreme Court of
eator Luwiner
In JT. S.
Wisconsin upon a like questioh.
Company v. St. Croix BooMCorporation, 72 Wisconsin, 6,
88, it appeared that the St. Croix Boom Company was a corporation created by the State of Minnesota, and that it had
constructed its boom on the St. Croix River at a place where
the river was the boundary line between Minnesota and Wisconsin, and wholly, occupied the river with its works. An
action was brought to recover -damages on account of the
way in which the boom was constructed and operated. The
opinion of- the Supreme Court, by Mr. Justice Cassoday, is a
very elaborate discussion of the rights of parties. In it it is
,aid:
"The obstructions here complained of were in that part of
the St. Croix River constituting the boundary line between

OCTOBER TERM, 1599.
Opinion of the Court.

this State and Minnesota. The defendant justifies under corporate authority derived solely from Minnesota. -We are
here confronted with the question whether such authority,
so granted by that State alone and without the concurrence
of this, is of any validity. Our constitution declares that
'the State shall have concurrent jurisdiction on all rivers and
lakes bordering on this State, so far as such rivers or lakes
shall form a common boundary to the State and any other
State or Territory now or hereafter to be formed and bounded
by the same.' (See..1, Art. IX, Const. Wis.) This provision
is substantially the same as the third section of the act of
Congress of August 6, 1846, enabling the organization of this
State preparatory to its admission into the Union. Substantially the same provision, as applied to Minnesota, is found in
see. 2 of art. II of the constitution of that State, which is in
substance the same as section 2 of the enabling act for the
organization of that State passed by Congress in 1857. Such
' concurrent Jurisdiction,' therefore, is fairly established by the
combined action of the general government and each of these
two States. Its significance is the important inquiry presented. No one will deny that the one State has as much
jurisdiction over the commerce of the river as the other, nor
that the jurisdiction of each and both must be and remain
subordinate to any action of Congress under the commercial
clause of our national Constitution. The question recurs
whether one of these States, without the concurrence of the
other, can legally grant the booming -privileges and rights
authorized by the defendant's charter."
Without attempting fully to define the rights which either
State might grant, it was held that a private party could not
main Lain an action for damages on the ground that Minnesota
had exceeded its jurisdiction in granting rights upon waters
within the limits of Wisconsin. Referring to Rundle v. .Delaware c Raritan Canal Co., 14 How. 80, the court stated the
facts and the rulings in that case,.and summed up its own'
views in these words (pages 98, 99):
- "The plaintiffs owned certain mills in Pennsylvania, opposite
Trenton, Nqew Jersey, supplied with water from a dam in the

LINDSAY AND PHELPS .COMPA-Y v. MULLEN.

153

Opinion of the Court.
Delaware River, by a title running back prior to 1771. In
that year the two provinces, which subsequently became the
States of Pennsylvania and New Jersey, respectively passed
acts declaring the river a common highway for the purposes
of navigation, and appointed commissioners with full power
to improve such navigation and remove any obstructions. By
compact in,1783, it was agreed by the two States that the river
should continue to be and remain a common highway in its
whole length and breadth, equally free and open for the use,
benefit and advantage of each of the two States. The defendant company was incorporated under the laws of New Jersey
in 1830, and was thereby authorized to aild did construct a
canal in that State, with a feeder from a dam in that river
above the plaintiffs. The action was brought by reason of
the diversion of such water, to the damage of the plaintiffs.
The court held, in effect, that the plaintiffs had no grant of
the-usufruct of the waters of the river, but only a license to
draw from their dam; that such license was revocable and in
subjection to the superior right of the State to divert the water
for public improvements, either by the State directly or by
a corporation created for that purpose; that the plaintiffs,
being but tenants at sufferance in the usufruct of the water of
the two States, who owned thb river as tenants in common,
were not in a condition to question the relative rights of either
State to use its waters without the consent of the other; that
as, by the laws of their own State, the plaintiffs could have
had no remedy against a corporation authorized to take the
whole waters of the river for the purpose of canals or improving the navigation, so they could not sustain a suit against a
corporation created by New Jersey for the same purpose,
which had taken a part of the waters. The principle of that
decision seems to be that a mere private party should not be
heard to complain that one of two States, divided by such
river, bad invaded the rightful jurisdiction of the other by diverting more than its share of the waters. So here, we think,
the plaintiffs are not entitled to be heard as to whether Minnesota has infringed the rightful jurisdiction of Wisconsin. This
State is not a party to this suit, and her comparative rights in

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Dissenting Opinion: Peckham, Harlan, Brown, White, JJ.

and upon the waters of the river at the points in question cannot be adjudicated in this action."
Without pursuing this subject further, we are of opinion
that the improvement made in the Mississippi River by the
construction of the boom and its works, and the exaction of
reasonable charges for the use of such works, including fees of
state officials for inspecting and scaling, if done under state
authority, cannot be considered in any just sense a burden
upon interstate commerce. It is nothing more than action
upon the part of a State in furnishing additional facilities for
the navigation of the waterway, and for such additional facilities reasonable charges may be exacted. The "shear boom,"
even though it extends across the main channel of the Mississippi River and into the territory of Wisconsin, was not complained of by that State, and the plaintiff cannot be heard to
raise any question in that respect. Indeed, its only purpose
was to enable the boom company the more easily to collect
the logs of plaintiff and others floating down the stream. The
work of separation and brailing was done wholly within the
limits of the State of Minnesota in works constructed therein.
For these reasons we are of opinion that the judgment of the
Affirmed.
court below was right, and it is
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, with whom concurred MR.
HARLAN,

MR. JUSTICE

BRowNf and M.

JUSTicE

WHITE,

JusTicE

dissent-

ing.
I dissent from that portion of the opinion of the court
which determines the validity of a lien upon the logs of one
owner in order to secure payment of the fees for the inspection and scaling of logs owned by anotfer.
The situatibn in which the log owner is placed practically
compels him to make use of the boom for the purpose of having
his logs inspected and scaled as required by the law, and under
such circumstances he cannot be properly or fairly held, by
the use of the boom, to consent that his property should be
taken for the debt of another person. The mere inconvenience, however great or small, to the inspector, of having

LINDSAY AND PHELPS COMPANY v. MULLEN.

155

Dissenting Opinion: Peckham, Harlan, Brown, White, JJ.

some one watch at the exit of the boom to demand of each
log owner the fees for inspecting and scaling his particular
logs, furnishes no answer to the objection of the log owner
to the taking of his property for the debt of another. This
act accomplishes that result in its plainest and baldest form.
It reduces to actual practice and in the form of a legislative
enactment, sanctioned by judicial approval, the illustration
that is generally made for the purpose of showing that there
are some things so contrary to justiee as to admit of no doubt
of their utter illegality; such as the arbitrary taking, under
the form of a legislative enactment, of the property of one
man and bestowing it upon another.
If an owner is practically compelled, in order to conform
to a statute, to use a warehouse for the receipt of his grain,
I think it plain that- it would be utterly illegal to permit a
lien on the grain of such owner to attach, for the purpose of
obtaining payment for the services of a state inspector in
inspecting the grain of another. Whilst as now decided by
the court, a state regulation which substantially 6ompels
the sending of logs into the boom to be there inspected and
scaled, may not be a regulation of interstate commerce, I
think a state regulation which confiscates the logs of one
person to pay the debt of another clearly constitutes such a
direct burden upon that commerce as to cause the statute
making the regulation, at least to that extent, to be repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States.
Without enlarging upon what seems to me a very great
inroad made upon the rights of individual property by the
opinion. of the court herein, I am content merely to record
my dissent frQm the doctrine therein announced.
I am authorized to say that MR. JusTIc. HARLAN, MR.JUSTreo BRowN and MR. JUsTIcE WHiTE concur in this dissent.

