MATTESON v. DENT.
Statement of the Case.

tion could not, in any form, stipulate for exemption from
responsibilty for the negligence of its servants or employ~s
in the course of its business whereby injury comes to any
person using its cars, with its consent; for purposes of transportation. That the person transported is not technically a
passenger and does not ride in a car ordinarily used for passengers is immaterial.

MATTESON v. DENT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MI1EESOTA.
No. 124. Submitted January 29, 1900. -Decided February 26, 1900.

As a general iule, the legal owner of stock in a national banking association -that is, the one in whose name stock stands on the books of the
association -remains liable for an assessment so long as the stock is
allowed to stand in his name on the books, and, consequently, although
the registered owner may have made a transfer to another person, unless
it has been accompanied by a transfer on the books of registry of the
association, such registered owner remains liable for contributions in
case of the insolvency of the bank.
The exceptions to this general rule so far as established by decisions of this
court are: (1) That where a transfer has been fraudulently or collusiveli
made to avoid an obligation to pay assessments, such transfer will be disregarded, and the real owner be held liable; (2) That where a transfer
of stock is made and delivered to officers of a bank, and such officials fail
to make entry of It, those acts will operate a transfer on the books, and
extinguish the liability, as stockholder, of the transferrer; (3) Where
stock was transferred in pledge, and the pledgee for the purpose of protecting his contract caused the stock to be put In his name as pledgee,
and a registry did not amount to a transfer to the pledgee as owner.

ON October 31, 1864, Sumner W. Matteson became the
owner of ten shares of capital stock of the First National
Bank of Decorah, established in the city of Decorah, State of
Iowa, and the shares were duly registered on the books of
the bank in his name. In July, 1895, Matteson, whilst the
stock was yet owned by him and still stood registered in his
name, died intestate at St. Paul, Minnesota, where he resided,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

leaving surviving his widow and six children, two of whom
were minors. The probate court of Minnesota having jurisdiction over his estate appointed an administrator, who filed
an inventory in which was embraced the shares of stock in
question. In September, 1896, a final account having been
previously. filed by the administrator, a decree turning over
the estate, including the ten shares of stock, was entered.
Under this decree the widow and heirs took the ten shares
of stock in indivision in proportion to their interest in the
estate; that is to say, the widow became the owner of an
undivided third interest in the stock and each of the children,
there being six, of a one ninth interest therein, thus the widow
owned three ninths of the ten shares and each of the six children one ninth. No notice of the death of Matteson or of
the allotment in question was conveyed to the bank, nor was
any transfer of the stock on the books of tde bank operated
at the time of the allotment or subsequent thereto. Indeed,
under the proportions of undivided ownership of the stock
in the widow and heirs, it was impossible to have registered
on the books of the bank in the name of each owner separately according to their respective ownership in the ten shares
without some further partition of the undivided ownership
existing between them. It follows that the stock which
stood on the books of the bank in the name of Matteson
during his life continued to so stand after his death, so
remained at the time of the allotment, and was so registered
at the time this suit was brought. On November the 10tb,
1896, the bank became inisolvent and was closed by the Comptroller of the Currency, who on the 24th of November, 1896,
appointed a receiver. In January, 1897, in order to pay the
debts of the bank, under the authority conferred on him by
law (Rev. Stat. ยง 5151), the Comptroller made an assessment
upon the shareholders of one hundred dollars upon each share,
and proceedings for its enforcement were by him directed to
be taken. The assessment not having been paid, although
due notice was given to do so, the receiver sued in the state.
court of Ramsey County, Minnesota, the widow and children
of Matteson, as next of kin, asking judgment for the amount

MATTESON v. DENT.
Opinion of the Court.

of said assessment. The suit was in conformity to the General Statutes of 1894 of Minnesota, which, in sections 5918
et 8eq., permitted an action to be brought against all or one
or more of the next of kin of a deceased person, by the creditor of an estate, to recover the distributive shares received out
of such estate, or so much thereof as might be necessary to
satisfy a debt of the intestate or of his estate. Service was
had only upon the widow and one of the children. A general demurrer to the complaint was filed and overruled, and
the order so overruling the demurrer was, upon appeal,
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State. 70 Minn. 519.
Thereafter the demurring defendants. answered setting forth
in substance their non-liability to pay said assc.sment under
the statute of the United States governing the winding up
of insolvent national banking associations. A motion for
judgment upon the pleadings was thdreupon made and
granted, and judgment was entered in favor of the receiver
against Louise M. Matteson, and Charles D. Matteson, -and
each of them, in the sum of one thousand dollars with interest and costs. On appeal to the Supreme Court of the State
of Minnesota,' that court affirmed the judgment. 75 N. W.
Rep. 1041. A writ of error was allowed, and. the judgment'
of affirmance is now here for review.
-Yr. Edm-znd S. Darment and Mr. Albert R. Moore for
plaintiffs in error.
XM. Frank B. Kellogg, Mr. Daniel W. Lawler, Mr. George
R. O"Reilly and .21..Fitzhug Burn8 for defendant in error.
MR. JusTIoC Wnrrn, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered, the opinion of the*court.

The questions arising on this record involve a consideration
of sections 5918 et 8eq. of'the General Statutes of the State of

Minnesota and of the sections of the Revised Statutes of the
United States which are in the margin.'
SEC. 5139. The capital stock of each association shall be divided into
shares of one hundred dollars each, and be deemed personal property, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Leaving out of view for the moment the legal effect of the
allotment of the ten shares of stock to the next of kin of
Matteson, let us consider what, if any, liability rested upon his
estate to pay the assessment on the ten shares of stock which
stood at his death in his name, and so remained up to the time
of the allotment. Because the insolvency of the bank took
place after the death of Matteson, did it result that the assessment, which was predicated upon the insolvency, was not a
debt of his estate? To so decide the statute must be construed as imposing the liability on the shareholder for the
amount of his subscription when necessary to pay debts, only
in case insolvency arises during the lifetime of the shareholder.
In other words, that all liability of shareholders, to contribute
transferable on the books of the association in such manner as may be prescribed In the, by-laws or articles of association. Every person becoming
a shareholder by such transfer shall, in proportion to his shares, succeed
to all the rights and liabilities of the prior holder of such shares; and no
change shall be made in the articles of association by which the rights,
remedies or security of the existing creditors of the association shall be
impaired.
SEC. 5151. The shareholders of every national banking association shall
be held individually responsible, equally and ratably, and not one for another,
for all contracts, debts and engagements of such association, to the extent
of the amount of their stock therein, at the par value thereof, in addition
to the amount invested in such shares; except that shareholders of any
banking association now existing tinder state laws, having not less than
five millions of dollars of capital actually paid in, and a surplus of twenty
per centum on hand, both to be determined by the Comptroller of the Currency, shall be liable only to the amount invested in their shares; and such
surplus of twenty per centum shall be kept undiminished, and be in addition to the surplus provided for in this title; and if at any time there is a
deficiency in such surplus of twenty per centum, such association shall not
pay any dividends to its shareholders until the deficiency is made good; and
in case of such deficiency the Comptroller of the Currency may compel the
association to close its business and wind up its affairs under the provisions
of chapter four of this title.
SF.c. 5152. Persons holding stock as executors, administrators, guardians
or trustees shall not be personally subject to any liabilities as stockholders;
but the estates and funds in their hands shall be liable in like manner and
to the same extent as the testator, intestate, ward or person -interested in
such trust funds would be if living and competent to act and hold the stock
in his own name.

MATTESON v. DENT.
Opinion of the Court.

to pay debts, ceases by death. This construction, however,
would be manifestly unsound. The obligation of a subscriber
to stock, to contribute to the amount of his subscription for
the purpose of the payment of debts, is contractual, and arises
from the subscription to the stock. True, whether there is to
be a call for the performance of this obligation depends on
whether it becomes necessary to do so in consequence of the
happening of insolvency. But the obligation to respond is
engendered by and relates to the contract from which it arises.
This contract obligation, existing during life, is not extinguished by death, but like other contract obligations survives
and is enforceable against the estate of the stockholder. The
principle controlling the subject was quite clearly stated by
Shipman, J., in Davis v. Weed, 7 Fed. Cas. 186. There, stock of
a national bank stood in the name of a person who died in January, 1871. Nearly one year afterwards, on December 12,1871,
the bank became insolvent, and more than five years thereafter
several assessments were made by order of the Comptroller of
the Currency, and an action was instituted against the administrator to enforce payment. Two defences were interposed
by the administrator, as follows: 1, that the estate of the decedent had been settled according to law, prior to the assessments,
and that as there were no assets in the hands of the administrator at the time of the demand and he had fully administered the estate and had received no assets since the demand,
no judgment could be rendered against him; and, 2, that inasmuch as the insolvency of the bank occurred after the death of
the intestate, when the title of the stock became vested in the
administrator, no debt or liability existed at any time against
the estate; that the liability, if any, was against the administrator, who, by section 5152 of the Revised Statutes, was freed
from personal liability, and was only liable to the extent of the
trust'estate and funds in his hands at the time of the demand.
The first contention was held untenable, upon a consideration of the statutes of Connecticut in regard to the settlement
of estates, and the presentation, allowance and payment of
claims against the estates of solvent deceased persons. In
disposing of the- second contention the court said:

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

"The original liability of the intestate to pay the assess.
ments which may be ordered by the Comptroller was a voluntary agreement, evidenced by his subscription or by his
becoming a stockholder. It is not imposed by way of forfeiture or penalty. It is imposed by the statute, but it also
exists by virtue of the contract which the intestate entered
into when he became a stockholder. When the stockholder
dies his estate becomes burdened with the same contract or
agreement which the dead man had assumed, and so long as
it, through the executor or administrator, holds the stock
as the property of the estate, and the stock has not been
transferred on the books of the bank, and the liability has
not been discharged by some act which shows that the new
stockholder has taken the place of the old one, the contract
liability still adheres to the estate. This liability is not the
result of any new contract, for the administrator did not voluntarily become the owner of the stock; it came to him as
the dispenser of the goods of the dead, and the liability rested
upon the stock, and was a part of the contingent liability of
the estate, at least until it was transferred to some other person
by a transfer free from fraud."
The question was settled in Richmond v. irons, 121 U. S.
27, where the court said (pp. 55, 56):
"Under the national banking act the individual liability of
the stockholders is an essential element of the contract by
which the stockholders became members of the corporation.
It is voluntarily entered into by subscribing for and accepting
shares of stock. Its obligation becomes a part of every contract, debt and engagement of the bank itself, as much so as
if they were made directly by the stockholder instead of by
the corporation. There is nothing in the statute to indicate
that the obligation arising upon these undertakings and promises should not have the same force and effect, and be as binding in all respects, as any 6ther contracts of the individual
stockholder. We hold, therefore, that the obligation of the
stockholder survives as against his personal representatives.
F!lah v. Conn, 109 U. S. 371 ; Hobart v. Johnson,19 Blatchford,
359. In Massachusetts it was held, in Grew v. Breed, 10 Met.

MATTESON v. DENT.
Opinion of the Court.

569, that administrators of deceased stockholders were chargeable in equity, as for other. debts of their intestate, in their
representative capacity."
And a similar determination as to the nature of a responsibility like the one in question has been arrived at by the state
courts in decisions on kindred statutes, and, indeed, its correctness is not controverted by any authority to which we have
been referred or which we have been able to examine. The
accepted doctrine finds nowhere a- more lucid statement than
in the courts of New York. Thus, in Bailey v. Hollister, 26
N. Y. 112, judgment having been recovered against a manufacturing company upon indebtedness which arose in the years
1849, 1850, 1851, 1852 and 1853, an action was brought, after
return of execution unsatisfied, to recover the same debt from
the personal representatives of the estate of one Kirkpatrick,
on the ground that when such indebtedness was contracted
the estate of Kirkpatrick was a stockholder, and, as such, personally liable under the charter of the company. Kirkpatrick
had died intestdte in 1832, and the stock stood on the books of
the company in his name until 1844, when it was entered in a
new stock/edger in the name of the estate, which thereafter
received dividends. The facts of this transfer and the payment of dividends were not, h6wever, in the opinion of the
court treated as materWl factors in the decision. The court,
in an opinion delivered by Gould, J-., said (p. 116):
"It will be conceded that when a stockholder in any corporation dies, his estate succeeds him in the title to, and the
rights in, the stock he held. Of necessity, it must take that
title and those rights subject -to any liability then existing
upon them; and so long as the estate is, by operation of law,
the holder of such stock, the estate must become responsible
for any obligations accruing during that time which the law
may impose upon any holder of the stock as such. Such liability proceeds not from any new contract, made by or on
behalf of the estate, but is inherent in the property itself.
To avoid it the estate must part from the property; must
cease to be the holder of the stock. Or, calling it a contract
liability, it arises out of a contract made by the stockholder,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

and binding his personal representatives, as it bound him, as
long as the relation of stockholder existed.'.'
And it may be added, the law presumes, in the absence of
express words, that the parties to a contract intend to bind
not only themselves, but their personal representatives. Kernochan v. 3urray, 111 N. Y. 306.
The doctrine enunciated in Bailey v. flolliter, as above
stated, was later applied in Cochran v. W~iecherm, 119 N. Y.

399, 403, where the court held that liability imposed by statute
upon stockholders in limited liability companies to respond
for the debts of the company, "to an amount equal to the
amount of stock held by them respectively," was in the nature
of a contract obligation, which survived the death of the stockholder. The court, after approvingly quoting a portion of the
opinion of Gould, J., above excerpted, added (p. 401):
"The liability of the estate of the deceased stockholder
under the statute is so well established, upon principle and
authority, that further discussion is unnecessary. Chase v.
Lord, 77 N. Y. 1; Nlash v. Conn, 109 U. S. 371; Richmond
v. Irons, 121 U. S. 27."
The debt then being one due by the estate of Mvfatteson, if
the allotment of the shares in indivision be not considered, the
question then is, taking the allotment into view, what was its
effect? The argument is that the next of kin to whom the
allotment was made can only'be held responsible to the extent
of the interest which they took in the stock, and therefore
there was error committed in enforcing the whole amount of
assessment against the next of kin who were served, to the
extent of the distributive share of the property of the estate
received by them. But this contention directly conflicts with
the interpretation of the statutes of Minnesota by the court of
last resort of that State in this case. It is clear that, by necessary implication, it was decided that by the statutes of Minnesota under which the allotment in indivision was made, the
heirs or next of kin remained, by operation of law, to the
extent to which they received the property of the estate, subject to be sued and to respond to the debts of the estate existing at the time the allotment took place. But the rights arising

MATTESON v. DENT.
Opinion of the Court.

from the allotment, under the statutes of Minnesota, cannot be
greater than those which the statutes in question conferred.
The contention, therefore, amounts to this, that in so far as
the statutes of Minnesota operated in favor of the participants
in the allotment the statutes are to be respected, but to the
extent that they imposed obligations upon the allottees they
are not bound thereby. It is argued, however, that as by the
law of Minnesota the liability to be called upon to pay a debt
of the estate, to the extent of the'distributive share received,
depended solely upon whether there was such debt existing
at the time the allotment was made, and as there was no such
debt in the present instance, no duty to respond arose. This
is predicated upon the assumption that because the insolvencyhappened after the allotment, therefore there was no debt at
the time of the allotment. This assumes that whether there
was a debt depended upon the date of the insolvency. In
effect, this is but to argue that the estate was never liable at
all. Such clearly is the essence of the proposition, for if it be
that whether there was a debt is to be alone ascertained by
the happening of insolvency and not by referring to the date
of the subscription, then where insolvency occurred after the
death of the stockholder, there would be no responsibility.
The unsoundness of this view has been already demonstrated.
Moreover, the Supreme Court of Minnesota, in effect, in this
case has held that the statute of that State making the allottees liable, each to the amount of th'eir distributive share, for
the debt of the estate embraced a. contract liability, to pay
an assessment, contingent on the happening of insolvency,
although that event had not taken place at the time of' the
allotment.
The contention is next made that conceding there was a
debt of the estate, and granting that the statute embraced a
prefxisting contract obligation which had not ripened into an
actual demand because insolvency had not taken place, nevertheless the court below erred, because by the effect of the
allotment the estate had ceased to exist and all its property
had passed to the allottees This but reit6rates the misconception already disposed of. Whether the effect of the allotment
VOL. CLXYVI--34:

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

was to extinguish the estate, was wholly dependent on the
'Minnesota law. That law, as construed by the courts of Minnesota in this case, in substance provides (for the purpose of
the enforcement of the debts of the estate then actually existing or resting in contract, and liable to arise from events to
take place in the future) that the estate should, in legal effect,
continue to exist, to the extent provided, for the purpose of
enforcing the debts in question.
These considerations would dispose of the case, since they
demonstrate that no substantial Federal question was involved
but for the fact that it is claimed that, as under the statute
of the United States each stockholder in a national bank can
only be liable to the extent of the amount of his stock therein,
at the par value thereof, in addition to the amount invested
in' such shares, therefore the enfbrcement of the liability for
the whole amount against one of the allottees deprives him
of the benefit of the Federal statute and involves a misconstruction of its, provisions. This contention was considered
and adversely decided below. It is conceded that no notice
of the allotment was ever given to the bank, and that the
stock in question was never registered in the name -of the
allottees. But the settled doctrine is that, as a general rule,
the legal owner of stock of a national banking association that is, the one in whose name stock stands on the books of
the association -remains .liable for an assessment so long as
the stock is allowed to stand in his name on the books, and,
consequently, that although the registered owner may have
made a transfer to another person, unless it has been accompanied by a transfer on the books of registry of the association, such registered owner remains liable. Upton v. Tribilcock,
92 U. S. 45; Sanger v. Upton; 91 U. S. 56; Tfebster v. Upton, 91
S. 828 ; Anderson v. PhiladelU. S. 65 ; Pullman v. Uton,'96U.
v. Irons,
phia. Warehouse Co., 111 U. S. 479; and Richmond
121 U. S. 27, 58. This'principle thus settled as to the stockholders in national banks is in entire accord with the rule
established by state courts in construing statutes containing
substantially similar provisions. In Shellington v. Howland,
53 N. Y. 371, 376, it was said:

MATTESON v, DENT.
Opinion of the Court.

"cThere may have been a transfer by the defendant of his
stock to the corporation in 1869, valid as between the parties
to the transaction, and sufficient to vest the equitable title in
the transferee, but the transfer was not consummated in the
form required by statute, so as to affect the rights of strangers or to relieve the defendant from his legal liability to
The
.
third persons for the debts of the corporation.
until
transfer of stock, quoad the public, is not complete
entered on the book designated by statute. An entry uipon the
books of registry of stockholders is required for the protection
of the company and its creditors, and each may hold the stockholders to their liability as such until they have divested themselves of the title to their shares by a completed transfer, as
prescribed by law. No secret transfer will avail to release the
stockholder from his obligations, or deprive the creditors of the
corporation of the right to look to him as the responsible party
liable for the debts of the corporation."
Indeed, this doctrine is so universally settled that it is
treated as elementary. See Thompson on Cbrporations, sections 3283 and 3284.
True it is that exceptions have been engrafted upon this
do6trine as to national bank stockholders by decisions of this
court, but none of them are germane to the matter now considered. Cases enunciating certain of the exceptions referred
to are cited in the following summary:
1. Where a transfer has been fraudulently or collusively
made to avoid an obligation to pay assessments, such transfer will be disregarded and the real owner be held liable.
Germania RAational Bank v. Case, 99 U. S. 628, 631, 632;
Bowden v. Johnson, 107 U. S. 251, 261.
2. Where a transfer of stock is made and delivered to
officers of a bank, and such officials fail to make entry of
it, the acts referred to will operate a transfer on the books,
and extinguish the liability as stockholder of the transferrer.
Whitney v. Butler, 118 U. S. 655. In the case just cited, in
applying the exception, the court very carefully and accurately restated the general rule.
3. Where stock was transferred in pledge, and the pledgee

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Counsel for Parties.

for the purpose of protecting his contract caused the stock
to be put in his name on the books as pledgee, it has been
held that such a registry did not amount to a transfer to the
pledgee as owner, and that he therefore was not liable
although the pledgor might continue to be so.' Pauly v.
S t ate .oan. & Trust Co., 165 U. S. 606.
These and other cases unnecessary to be referred to do not
impair, but, on the contrary, serve to prove the general rule.
As in the case now before us the stock remained on the books
in the name of Matteson, continued as a liability of the estate
and was never transferred under the allotment, it follows that
the allottees have no right to complain because the receiver
has availed himself of the provisions of the Minnesota statute.
Judgment ajirmed.

JACKSON v. EMMONS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Wo. 157. Submitted February 2, 1900. -Decided February 26,1900.
On motion of the plaintiff made after commencement of the trial of this
case, a juror was withdrawn, the remaining jurors were dismissed, and
leave was gien to the plaintiff to amend his declaration within a time
named, and the case was continued for the term. Subsequently, on
motion of the defendants' attorney, ipade after notice to plaintiff, the
time within which the amendment could be filed was enlarged, and th;
plaintiff was ordered to pay the costs of the term in which the juror was
withdrawn. The plaintiff declined to pay those costs and the court dismissed the case. Held that the trial court erred in so doing, as whatever conditions or rights the defendants were entitled to in consequence
of the plaintiff's motion should have been asserted and adjudged when
that motion was made.

THE statement of the case will be found in the opinion of
'the court.1
1 r. Joseph . Waters for plaintiff in error.

.r. William F. Jfattingly for defendants in error.

