OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

The result is, that the Panama was lawfully captured and
condemned, and that the decree of the District Court must be
Affirmed.
PEoKHAmEdissented.
M . JUSTICE

WEYERHAUESER v. MINNESOTA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 123. Argued and submitted January 80, 1900.-Decided February 26, 1900.

The provision in the statute of Minnesota for 1893, c. 151, authorizing the
Governor of the State when it is made to appear that there has been a
gross undervaluation of taxable property by the assessors for any county
in the State, to appoint a board to revalue and reassess it, which board
shall, after due examination, prepare a list of all such undervalued property, of, the year or years in which it was so underassessed, the amount
of the assessment and. the actual and true value thereof for which it
should have been so assessed, does no violation to the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, and does not deprive the
owner of lands, so reassessed at an advanced value, of his lands without
due process of law.

Tis writ of error brings up for review a judgment of the

Supreme Court of Minnesota affirming the judgment of the
district court of Itasca County, assessing certain taxes for
the years 1888 to 1893, inclusive, on the lands of the plaintiff
in error.

The law upon which the proceedings in taxation were based,
statutes of Minnesota of 1893, c. 151, omitting parts not material to the pending controversy, is as follows:
"Whenever it shall be made to appear to the governor of
this State by a complaint in writing and under oath, or by the
finding of any court, the legislature or any committee thereof,.

that for any reason any considerable amount of property in
any county in this State

.

.

.

is assessed

.

.

.

has

'been grossly undervalued by the assessor or other county officials, whether such valuation and assessment has or has not

been reviewed or acted upon by the county board of equaliza-

WEYERHAUESER v. MINNESOTA.
Statement of the Case.

tion of any such county, he shall lorthwith appoint in writing
some competent citizen of this State, not a resident of such
county, to ascertain the character, location, value and ownership of the real and personal property in any such county so
.

.underassessed

.

or undervalued, who shall forthwith

proceed to examine and report upon the subject, and prepare
a list or lists thereof in duplicate, showing therein the character, location, ownership and valuation of all such property,
with the year or years for which the same or any part thereof
has been . . undervalued; said list shall also show therein
opposite each tract, piece or parcel of land or personal property
.

.

.

underassessed for any year or years thereupon, in which

the same was undervalued or underassessed, with the amount
of such assessment, the actual and true value thereof at the
time. and for which the same was subject to and should
have been assessed, together with the difference between
the assessed and actual value thereof as so found. One of
which duplicate reports or lists shall be by him filed with the
county auditor of such county on or before the first day of
January in the year in which any such assessment is to be
made, and the other of said lists shall be by him filed within
the same time with the state auditor."
It is provided in other sections of the law that the county
auditor shall enter the lists on the assessment books, and that
the assessor shall assess the property at its true value corresponding with the lists, and the auditor shall proceed as under
the general law.
The taxes which are in controversy were assessed under
this law, and proceedings were instituted for their recovery*
in accordance with the usuaL practice in collecting taxes
against lands in Minnesota.
The plaintiffs in error claimed in their answer that the law
of the State and the proceedings under it were repugnant to
the Constitution of the United States, in that they impaired
the obligation of the contracts made by plaintiffs in error with
their grantors, deprived them of their property without due
process of law, and denied them the equal protection of the
laws.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

The facts were stipulated as follows:
"It is hereby stipulated between the parties to the aboveentitled action that the following are, and may be considered
by the court, as facts in said matter:
"That the defendants above named are the owners of the
lands described in their answer in this proceeding ; that the
defendants became the owners of such lands on September 18,
1893; that in each of the years 1888, 1889, 1890, 1891, 1892,
1893 and 1894, taxes were assessed upon all said lands brthe
proper officials pursuant to the provisions of chapter XI, General Statutes of 1878, and the amendments thereto, and that
such taxes for each of said years were, before the same became
delinquent paid by the defendants and tt~ir predecessors iii
estate; that the taxes sought to be recovered against said
lands in this proceeding are claimed to be due by reason of an
assessment made pursuant to the provisions of chapter 151,
General Laws 1893, upon the ground that said lands in said
prior assessment proceedings had been grossly undervalued.
"That prior to January 1, A.D. 1894, it was made to
appear to the*Governor of this State, by duly verified complaint, that a considerable amount of property in said county
of Itasca had been grossly undervalued in the tax proceedings
for the years from 1888 to 1893, inclusive; that thereupon and
forthwith the said Governor did, in writing, appoint a competent citizen of this State, hot a resident of said county, to ascertain the character, location, value and ownership of the real
and personal property in said county so omitted, underassessed
or undervalued, to wit, one J. S. Dedon; that thereupon the
said Dedon did forthwith proceed to examine and report upon
the subject, and did prepare a duplicate list of such lands as
he determined had been so underassessed or undervalued, in
the manner and form as prescribed in section one of said
chapter 151, General Laws 1893; that thereafter, and prior to
January 1, A.D. 1894, the said duplicate lists were filed with
the state auditor and with the county auditor of said Itasca
County; that thereafter the county auditor and county assessor
of said Itasca County took the proceedings in regard to said
lands described in said lists, which are prescribed in section
two of said chapter 151.

WEYERHAUESER v. MINN19SOTA.
Sthtement of the Case.

"That the said lands so owned by.these defendants were
returned as un dervalued lands for each of said years from
1888 to 1893, inclusive, and were entered by the' county auditor upon the real estate assessment books for the year 1894,
and were assessed by the assessor of said Itasca County at the
respective values shown by said lists, and were also entered by
the county auditor upon the assessment and tax books for each
of said years from 1888 to 1893,.inclusive, and were assessed
by him at the valuation and amounts as shown by said lists
to have been omitted or undervalued, and arrearages of taxes
by reason of said increased valuation were extended upon said
assessment books, and the taxes claimed in this proceeding are
the proper amount of taxes claimed in this proceeding, which
would be due against said lands on account of said increased.
valuation if such tax were legal and valid and could be col-.
lected in this proceeding.
" That no notice of any of said proceedings by any of said
persons in making said reassessment or revaluation of said
lands, or in extending said taxes against said lands, was ever
given, by publication or otherwise, to these defendants."
The trial court found in-accordance with the stipulatio n, and
further found as a conclusion of law that the proceedings for
levying and assessing the taxes were in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 151, General Laws of 1893, but that the
said law and the proceedings therein provided were unconstitutional, and the taxes, therefore, not a legal charge against
the lands.
The judgment was reversed by the Supreme Court and the
taxes sustained. 68 Minnesota, 353.
The court in its opinion confined its consideration to the
validity of the law under the constitution of the State, and did
not pass upon the claim that it was also in violation of the
Constitution of the United States. After the judgment was
entered in compliance with its mandate by the district court
the case was again certified to the Suprerie Court in accordance with the practice of the State.
The certificate recited the facts which have already been
set out, and "that the points raised by the defendants [plain-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

tiffs in error] herein are as follows, to wit: 1. Is chapter 151,
General Laws of 1893, of the State of Minnesota, and the
assessment of taxes attempted to be made thereunder in this
proceeding, constitutional and legal? 2. In particular, is said
chapter 151 and the assessment of taxes attempted to be
made in pursuance thereof in this proceeding, in violation
of article fourteen of the amendments to the Constitution of
the United States, providing that no State shall deprive any
person of his property without due process of law, or deny
to any person within its jurisdiction equal protection of the
laws? "
The Supreme Court affirmed the judgment. 72 Minnesota, 519.
_M'. George Welwood Xurray for plaintiffs in error. .M,.
Moses E. Clapp and _Y.. John B. Atwater were with him on
the brief.
21r. TT B. Dougla8 and Xr. C. WF Somerby, for defendant
in error, submitted on their brief.
M.. JUSTICE MoXKNNA, after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The procedure under the statute is as follows: A complaint
to the Governor of the State that a considerable amount of
property has been grossly undervalued by the assessor or other
county officials.
The appointment by the Governor of a competent person to
examine and report, and if be find undervalued property to prepare a list in duplicate showing its character, location, ownership and valuation, one of which lists shall be filed with the
county auditor.
The entry of the list on the assessment books by the
auditor.
The assessment of the property at its value corresponding
to the list.
Proceedings by the county auditor as under the general law.

WEYERHAUESER v. MINNESOTA.
Opinion df the Court.

This procedure was exactly followed, and it is stipulated
that "the taxes claimed in this proceeding are the proper
amount of taxes' due against said lands on account of said
increased valuation.

.

"

In other words, the lands have

not been made to bear a greater burden than they would and
should have borne if they had been originally assessed at their
true valuation. Itis, however, claimed that the increased taxation is illegal because the law authorizing it offends the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
The grounds of the contention are that the former assessments constituted judicial judgments, and hence to commit
to the executive the power of setting them aside or to set
them aside without notice or opportunity to be heard is not
due process of law.' And further, that the statute deprives
the plaintiffs in error of the equal protection of the laws, in
that it gives to owners of similar real estate an opportunity
to contest the absolute assessed valuation of their property
and to plaintiffs in error only the opportunity to contest the
gross overvaluation ; and that if the State knew of fraud in
the assessments it is estopped to assert it against an innocent
party, which plaintiffs in error are claimed to be, and as the
statute ignores this doctrine of estoppel, it does not provide
due process.
Conceding, arguendo, that the former assessments were
judicial judgments, the argument based on their immunity
from executive power or attack is not supported by the
statute. It does not commit to the Governor control over
them, and it does give opportunity to be heard. The Governor only starts the. inquiry upon which the reassessment
may be based, and the statute directs the proceedings* in an
orderly course of inquiry, report, entry upon the assessment
books, assessment by the assessor and an action for the collection of the taxes levied in the regular judicial tribunals.
The complaint of plaintiffs in error seems to be that a hearing before the Governor was not provided. If the basis of this
is that the owner of property must have notice of every step
in taxation proceedings, we agree with the Supreme Court of
the State that it is untenable. Pittburg&c.Railway v. Board

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.Opinion of the Court.

of Public Works, 172 U. S. 32; Davidson v. New Orleans,
96 U. S. 97; Ilagar v. Reclamation District, 111 U. S. 701 ;
WTinona & St. Peter Land Co. v. _finnesota, 159 U. S. 526.
If the basis of the complaint is that *theGovernor acts judicially
and plaintiffs in error were entitled to have notice, and be heard
before he rendered judgment, it is also untenable. The Governor does not act judicially- he determines nothing but that
a complaint has been made in writing and under oath, or that
it has been found by a court, or the legislature or any committee thereof, that a considerable amount of property in a
county of the State has been grossly undervalued. If the
perception of the fact of a complaint or A finding of a court
or legislature is a judgment in the sense urged, every act of
government is a judgment, and all of its exercises could be
stopped, upon the reasoning of plaintiffs in error, by perpetual
hearings. But supposing the Governor's act is a judgment, it
ends with the appointment of an examiner. What is substantial comes afterwards, and if against what may be detrimental
in that the landowner can be heard, he is afforded due process
within the rule announced by the authorities, supra.
That the landowner is provided with an opportunity to be
heard is decided by the Supreme Court of the State. In the
opinion in the case at bar the court said, quoting from -Redwood
v. WinoAa & St. Peter Land Co., 40 Minnesota, 512, 518:.
- "Within 20 days after the last publication of the delinquent
list any person may by answer interpose any defence or objection he may have to the tax. He may set up as a defence that
the tax is void for want of authority to levy it, or that it was
partially, unfairly or unequally assessed. Comm'rs of St. Louis Co. v. Nettleton, 22 Minnesota, 356. He may set up as a defence pro tanto that a part of a tax has not been remitted, as
required by some statute. Comm'rs of -Houston Co. v. Jes ,
Id. 552. That the land is exempt, or that the tax has been
paid. Counti of Chicago v. St' Paul & Duluth R. Co., 27
Minnesota, 109. That there was no authority to levy the
tax, or that the special facts authorizing the insertion of
taxes for past years in the list did not exist or any omissions
in the proceedings prior to filing the list, resulting to his

WEYERHAUESER v. MININESOTA.
Opinion of the Court.

prejudice. County of Olnsted v. Barber, 31 Minnesota, 256.
The filing of the list is the institution of an action against
each tract of land described in it for the recovery of the
taxes appearing in the list against such tract and tenders an
issue on every fact necessary to the validity of such taxes.
Chauncey v. Wass, 35 Minnesota, 1. The only limitation or
restriction upon the defences or objections which may be interposed is that contained in section 79, to the effect that if a
party interposes as a defence an omission of any of the things
provided by law in relation to the assessment or levy of a
tax or of anything required by an officer to be done prior to
filing the list with the clerk, the burden is on him to show that
such omission has resulted in prejudice to him, and that the
taxes have been partially, unfairly, or unequally assessed. .This
relates not to want of authority to levy the tax, but to some
omission to do or irregularity in doing the things required to
be done in assessing or levying a tax otherwise valid. Conr'rs
of St. Louis Co. v. Nettleton, 8upra. And certainly, in justice

or reason, a party cannot complain that when he objects to a
tax on the ground of some omission or irregularity in matters
of form, he is required to show that he was prejudiced."
This court in WTinona c St. Peter Land Co. v. -. innesota,
159 iU. S. 526, quoted the above extract as establishing that
the property owner was afforded a hearing by the laws of the
State, and declared the rule that the Constitution of the United
States was satisfied if an opportunity be given to question the
validity or amount of the tax "either before that amount is
determined or in subsequent proceedings for its collection."
And referring to the difference in the manner of assessment
and the successive opportunities for review which were given
to the property owner in one case and not in the other,
said: But there is nothing in the difference to affect the constitutional rights 6f a party. The legislature may authorize
different modes of assessment for"different properties, providing the rule of assessment is -the same. Zentucky Railbead
Tax cases, 115 U. S. 321, 337; Pittsburgh, Cincinnati &c.
Railway v. Backus, 151 U. S. 421. The latter cases of State
v. Lakeside Land Co., 71 Minnesota, 283, and State v. West

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

DuZuWA Lancd Co., 78 N. W. Rep. 115, cited by the plaintiffs
in error, do not militate against the rule in any way substantial
to the pending controversy.
The special objections of plaintiffs in error therefore cannot
be sustained, nor the broader one that the first assessments
itre final against any power of review or addition by the legislature. We held in the Winona Case, supra, that the legislature had power to provide for the assessment of property which
had escaped taxation in prior years and, as we have seen, a
special manher of assessment was sustained. We agree with
the Supreme Court of the State that a gross undervaluation
of property is within the principle applicable to an entire
omission of property. If it were otherwise the power and
duty of the legislature'to impose taxes and to equalize their
burdens would be defeated by the fraud of public officers,
perhaps induced by the very property owners who afterwards
claim its illegal advantage.
If an officer omits to assess property or grossly undervalues
it he violates his duty, and the property and its owners escape
their just share of the public burdens' In Stanley v. Suyervisors of Albany, 121 -U.S. 535, we held that against an excessive valuation of property its owner had a remedy in equity
to prevent the collection of the illegal excess. It would be
very strange if the State, against a gross undervaluation o
property, could not in the exercise of its sovereignty give itself a remedy for the illegal deficiency. And this is the effect
of the statute. It "merely sets in motion new proceedings to
collect the balance of the State's claim, and there is no constitutional objection in the way of doing this," as the Supreme
Court of the State said in its opinion.
The other objections to the statute do not demand an extended consideration. That it deprives plaintiffs in error of
the equal protection of the laws is based on the absence of a
provision for notice in the progress of the proceedings, and is
answered by the Winona case, sIra.
The fourth contention, that the State is estopped to assert
fraud in the former assessment, if we should concede that it has
any basis in law, lacks an essential basis of fact.

WHITMAN v.' OXFORD NATIONAL BANK.

559

Statement of the Case.

The plaintiffs in error purchased after the enactment of the
statute, and the record affords no presumptions of ignorance
or innocence. If plaintiffs had been attentive to the assessment of the land its gross undervaluation could not have escaped their notice. Besides, whether a party in a case has
been given or refused the benefit of the law of estoppel inJdgment aflbrmed.
volves no Federal question.

WHITMAN v. OXFORD NATIONAL BANK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIROUIT.
No. 2T. Argued March 8, 9, 1899. -Decided March 5, 1900.
The liability imposed upon stockholders in corporations by the provision in
the constitution of the State of Kansas that "dues from corporations
shall be secured by indtvidual liability of the stockholders to an additional amount equal to the stock owned by each stockholder, and such
other means as shall be provided by law; but such individual liabilities
shall not apply to railroad corporations, nor corporations for religious or
charitable purposes" and by the statutes of that State which are referred
to in the opinion of the court in this case, though statutory in origin, is
contractual in its nature; and an action on this liability, not being one
to enforce a peual statute of Kansas, but only to secure a private remedy,
can be maintained in any court of competent jurisdiction, whether Federal or state.

THIS was an action brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, by the
National Bajik of Oxford, a national banking association,
incorporated and established under the laws of the United
States, and doing business at Oxford in the State of Pennsylvania, against George L. Whitman, a citizen of the State of
New York, asserting his liability, under the provisions of the
constitution and laws of the State of Kansas, for a debt of
more than' $2000 due to the plaintiff from the Arkansas City
Investment Company, a corporation of the State of Kansas, in
which the defendant was a stockholder.

178 5
f76 61 l

