OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

BALTIMORE & POTOMAC RAILROAD COMPANY
v. CUMBERLAND.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. ST. Argued December 19, 1899.-Decided February 5, 1900.

Under a regulation requiring railroad tracks running through the streets of
a city to be fenced, whenever the grade is "approximately even" with
the adjacent surface of 'the streets, It is proper for the jury to say
whether a track elevated two feet two inches above the surface of the
street, iswithin the regulation.
Where the declaration averred that there was "no light" upon the engine
to indicate its approach, and the proof was that an insufficient light was
carried, it was held that there was no material variance.
Where the regulation required that " a headlight, or other equivalent reflecting lantern," should be carried upon a train to Indicate its approach, It is
for the jury to say whether an ordinary hand-lantern Is a substantial
compliance with the regulation.
In determining the existence of contributory negligence, the plaintiff is not
liable for faults which arise from inherent mental or.physical defects, or.
,want of capacity to appreciate what is and what is not negligence. He
is only responsible for the exercise of such faculties and capacities as he
Is endowed with by nature for the avoidance of danger.
While under the circumstances of this case the court'might have held the
plaintiff liable for contributory negligence, if he had been a man of
mature age and average intelligence, as he was a boy of twelve years of
age, it was held that the question was properly submitted to the jury.
A person crossing the track of a railroad companyIn the streets of a city
for the more convenient performance of his duties is not ipso facto a trespasser.

Tins was an.action begun in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia by the plaintiff Cumberland, suing by his
next friend, against the Baltimore and Potomac Railroad
Company, to recover damages for personal injuries inflicted
upon him by the alleged negligence of the defendant company.
The undisputed facts were that the plaintiff, who was twelve
years and four months of age at the time of the accident, was
a street lamplighter by occupation, and for more than a year
prior thereto had been engaged, under his father's direction,

BALTIMORE & POTOMAC R'D v. CUMBERLAND.

233

Statement of the Case.
in lighting street lamps in the vicinity of the company's tracks
on Maryland avenue in the city of Washington.
The accident occurred about dark on the evening of December 10, 1894. The weather was misty, according to some of
the Witnesses; rainy, foggy'and very cold, according to others.
The plaintiff, having lighted a lamp on the south side of Maryland avenue, between Thirteenth-and-a-half and Fourteenth
streets, started across Maryland avenue and the tracks of the
company, for the purpose of lighting a lamp directly opposite
on the north side of the street. 'There was a curve in the
tracks at this point, made by a turn in the railroad from Long
Bridge into Maryland avenue. There was n6 crossing for persons or vehicles between Thirteenth-and-a-half and Fourteenth
streets, and the street on either side of the right of way was
separated therefrom by curbs which projected eight inches
above the adjacent roadway. These curbs were about five
feet from the outer rails on either side, and the tracks were
carried upon ties, elevated about eighteen inches above the
level of the curbs and about two feet higher than the surface
of the street. The plaintiff, having. lighted a lamp on the
south side, started across the street; mounted the elevated
roadway, in front of a train coming up from Long Bridge
with the tender ahead of the engine, and just as he stepped
upon the track, was struck by the tender, knocked down and
run over. There was a hand signal lantern swung on the
advancing end of the tender, and at the time of the accident
it appeared to have been burning.
At this part of the avenue there are four or five railway
tracks-two main tracks on the north side, used for passenger trains; a third to the south of these two, used for freight
trains, which was the one on which the accident- occurred;
south of that a track diverging eastwardly into the freight
station of the Richmond and Danville Railroad Company to
the south of the avenue; and still further south, and south
even of the gas lamp which the boy'had lit, a switch diverging from the east into a private coal yard. About the place
of the accident, and thence westward towards Fourteenth
street, the tracks begin a curve so as to reach the Long Bridge

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

at the foot of that street, and to the south, upon the inner side
of this curve and about the line of Fourteenth street, there
was a switchman's box, which to some slight extent obstructed
the view from the east of trains coming to the avenue from
the bridge.
. As the boy had passed or was passing the Richmond and
Danville track, and was approaching the freight track, his
attenti6n was directed to a passenger train going out on the
northernmost track towards the bridge. When this had
passed he proceeded on his way across, and having stepped on
thq freight track, he was struck, knocked down and injured
by the tender attached to an engine drawing the work train,
which he states he had not seen, although he testifies -that he
had looked in that direction, had listened for approaching
trains, and had neither seen nor heard any.
The engineer testified that, when he was between Fourteenth
street and the place where the accident happened, he saw the
form of a person moving at. a brisk walk in the directioii of
the tracks, about fifteen feet away from them and about fifty
or sixty feet in front of the train. He could niot tell whether
it was a man or boy. When in the neighborhood of thirty
feet away, he saw he was coming so near the track that he
thought probably he was going to walk on it. He then
reversed the engine, applied the brake to stop, and the train
was brought.to a standstill within the distance of eighty or
ninety feet.
The fireman testified that when he first saw the boy he was
approaching the track at a brisk walk, and was about fifteen
or twenty feet from it, making his way north. He appeared
to be looking across towards the moving train on the southbound main track. He was carrying some object (a ladder).
He saw him put his foot on the end of the ties, and he (witness) called the engineer's attention by "hollering."
The defence rested chiefly upon the contributory negligence
of the plaintiff in crossing the track at this point without
sufficient care in looking out for the approach of trains.
The-trial resulted in a verdict for the plaintiff in the sum of
$8000, upon which judgment was entered. The case was car-

BALTIMORE & POTOMAC R'D v. CUMBERLAND.

235

Opinion of the Court.

tied by the defendant to the Court of -Appeals, and the judgment- of the Supreme Court affirmed. 12 D. 0. App. 598.
Whereupon defendant sued out a writ of error from this
court.

MX'. Frederic D. Xofoenney and -Mr. Wayne Xao Veagh for
plaintiff in error. Mr, John Spalding Flannery was on their
brief.
.X". A. S. Worthingtonr for defendant in error.
MR. JusTiCE BuowN delivered the opinion of the court.

Upon the trial the court left it to the jury to say whether
the defendant-was guilty cf negligence in either of four particulars: (1). Ihm failing to protect the tracks by a fence at the
point where the accident occurred; (2) in failing to' provide
a proper light to give warning of the approach of the train ;
(3) the distance passed over by the train after it struck th6
plaintiff and.before it was brought to a stop .as bearing upon
the question of speed; (4) and whether the persons in charge.
of the engine were keeping a proper lookout. Thes6 questions
were all left to the jury, and presumptively, at least, determined ajainst the defendant.
1. The regulations of the Commissioners of the District,
adopted in pursuance of an act of Congress, approved January 26, 1887, c. 48, 24 Stat. 368, and a joint resolution of February 26, 1892, 27 Stat. 391, require that "whenever the grade
of a steam railroad track is approximately even with the adjacent surface, the line of the road shall be securely closed on
both sides with a substantial fence," etc. There was no fence
upon either side of the track where the accident occurred. The
facts were that the track, at the point where the plaintiff was
attempting to cross at the time of the accident, was not over two
feet two inches higher than the level of the street, and was probably considerably less than that. The argument of the defendant is that, under this state of facts, the court had no right to
submit the question to the jury, whether, within the meaning

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

of the regulations, the grade of the track at this point was
"approximately even with the adjacent surface " of the street.
There was also some testimony tending to show that it was
impracticable to build a fence there consistently with the
proper managenient of the road.
IHad the sole design of the fence been to prevent the crossing of vehicles at this point, it would be difficult to say that
an elevation of two feet two inches above the surface of the
street made the track approximately, even with the adjacent
surface; but evidently more than this was contemplated by this
regulation, which looked to the protection of pedestrians as well
as vehicles. The object of the fence is to prevent all crossing
of the tracks, and unless the elevation be such as to render it
. practically impossible to cross, it is a question for the jury
whether the track is not approximately even with the surface
of the street. An elevation of two feet would afford no
serious obstacle to the crossing of foot passengers, and apparently presented no difficulty to the plaintiff, as he 'had
,already mounted the track when he was struck by the tender.
Had there been a fence upbn either side of the track between
Thirteenth-and-a-half and Fourteenth streets, the plaintiff
would have been obliged to cross the. track at one .of the
street crossings in order to reach the lamp which he intended
to light, and the accident would probably not have occurred.
As bearing upon the practicability of a fence at this point, it
is pertinent to note that, after the accident occurred, a fence was erected along the north side of the track between these
two streets, and still remains there. It was proper to leave,
the question of the fence to the jury,.and we have no criticism
to make of the charge upon that point.
2.- It is also insisted that there was a material variance between the declaration and the proof with respect to the light
on the advancing end of the tender, and, hence that the
sufficiency of such light was improperly submitted, to the
jury. The regpilations of the Commissioners require that "be-tween sunset and sunrise of each day, a headlight, or other
equivalent reflecting lantern, to give due warning to persons.
near or crossing steam railroad tracks of the approach of

BALTIMORE & POTOMAC R'D v. CUMfBERLAND.

237

Opinion of the Court.

trains, locomotives or cars, shall be displayed upon the advancing end of every train of steam railroad cars, and of
single steam railroad cars and locomotives not in trains, in
the District of Columbia. It shall be unlawful for any person
to set in motion, or run, or operate, any train of railroad cars,
single railroad cars, or locomotives, without the said display
of such lights or lanterns."
The declaration averred that "there was no light upon the
rear part of said engine to indicate its approach," and that
"by reason of the reckless and grossly careless manner in
which the agents of said defendant operated said engine in
failing to place any light upon the rear part of said engine,"
plaintiff was injured. The plaintiff showed that there wasno
regular headlight on the tender, but that there was a signal
lantern hanging on a hook on the rear or advancing end of
the tender, and that such light was visible at a considerable
distance.
The court left it to the jury to say whether the light was
substantially such an one as was required by the regulations,
or such as was requisite to give proper warning of the
approach of the train.
As the light was clearly not an ordinary headligbht, or bther
equivalent reflecting lantern, shedding a dazzling light which
could scarcely fail to be noticed by a person crossing in frolit
of an engine, but an ordinary lantern which might readily be
mistaken for a lantern carried by a foot passenger, or even, a
street lamp or other smaller light, it is impossible to say that
there was error in submitting the question of th6 sufficiency
of the light to the jury. The averment of the declarati6n,
that there was no light, is satisfied by proof that there was
no such light as was required by law. An insufficient light
is, from a legal point of view, no light at all. The distinction
between a powerful headlight, such as is ordinarily carried
upon locomotives, and an ordinary lantern, is by no means a
fanciful or immaterial one; and it would unquestionably have
been error to refuse to submit to the jury the question whether
the light in question was such as gave sufficient warning to
persons of the approach of trains. Although the regulations

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Oi nion of the Court.

of the Commissioners are satisfied not only by a locomotive
headlight, but by an equivalent reflecting lantern of sufficient
power to give warning that a train of steam cars is approaching, it was at least a question for the jury whether an ordinary
lantern which railway employ~s carry in their hands answered
the requirement. It is very clear that the variance between
the declaration and the proof was not of a character to mislead the defendant at the trial. Nash v. Towne, 5 Wall. 689,
700; Robbins v. Chicago, 4 Wall. 657; Grayson v. Zynch, 163
U. S. 468, 476.
3. The case turned mainly, however, upon the questibn of
contributory negligence, and upon the refusal of the- court to
direct a verdict for the defendant upon that ground. The
defence of contributory negligence is one which admits, or at
least presupposes, negligence on the part of the defendant,
and the party in fault thereby seeks to cast upon the plaintiff
the consequence of his own failure to observe the precautions
which the circumstances of the case demanded. In determining the existence of such negligence, we are not to hold the
plaintiff liable for faults which arise from inherent physical
or mental defects, or want of capacity to appreciate what is
and what is not negligence, but only to hold him to the exercise of such faculties and capacities as he is endowed with by
nature for the avoidance of danger. The defendant is primarily liable for his own negligence, and can only escape
liability for a non-observante of such precautions as his observation or the experience of others teaches him to be necessary,
by proving that the accident would not have occurred if the
plaintiff had taken such precautions as his own observation
and experience had taught him to be necessary. Hence the
plaintiff is liable only for the proper use of his own faculties,
and what may be justly held to be contributory negligence in
one is not necessarily such in another. There is no hard and
fast rule applicable to every one under like circumstances.
To an adult, in full possession of his mental and physical
powers, one standard may be applied; to a boy, particularly
if he be of limited intellgence, another standard; and to
an infant not sui jupi8 and totally ignorant of danger, still

BALTIMORE & POTOMAC R'D v. CUMBERL AND.

239

Opinion of the Court.

another. Railroad Co. v. Gladmon, 15 Wall. 401; Railroad
Co. v. Stout, 17 Wall. 657; Uniorn Paoiflc Railway v. .cDonald, 152 U. S. 2621 281. Indeed in the last case the only contributory negligence with which he is.chargeable is that of
his parent or custodian who permits him to stroll into a place
of danger.
Had the plaintiff in this case been a man of mature age and
average intelligence, it would be difficult to escape tie conclusion that he was guilty of negligence in crossing this track
without taking more careful observations of incoming and
outgoing trains. But he was not. He was a boy of twelve
years, apparently dull for his age, as he had attended school
four or five years without having learned to read or write.
There was testimony tending to show that he had only the
capacity of a child of six or seven. Certain answers given by
him upon his examination indicated that his powers of observation were limited or his memory defective. He was employed by his father, who was a city lamplighter, to light
about thirty lamps upon or near Maryland avenue; had
started shortly before five o'clock on the evening in question,
which was dark and misty, to make his accustomed rounds,
and had just lighted a lamp on the south side of the avenue,
when he started across to light a lamnp on the north side,
almost immediately opposite the one he had, just lighted. He
says he looked both ways, up and down Mfaryland avenue,
for trains, waited for the passing ef an outgoing passenger
train, but failed to notice an incoming train which was being
drawn by a locomotive running backward. The light on the
tender was obviously not powerful enough to illuminate the
tracks in front of the locomotive, since the engineer and fireman, who were looking at him as he stepped on the track in
front of the locomotive, could not tell whether he was a man,
woman, boy or girl, and could not see the ladder he carried.
It is probable that he was somewhat confused by the noise of
the outgoing train, by the ringing of the engine bell, and by a
number of vehicles which had just come over the bridge from
the Virginia side, and were rumbling and rattling over the
cobblestone pavement. It may be that these noises prevented

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

his hearing the shouting of the engineer and fireman, and of
two men at a switch lower down the track toward the bridge,
who were calling to him to keep away. It is by no means
improbable that, if there had been a strong reflecting light on
the tender, as the regulations required, it' would have compelled his attention, when an ordinary signal lantern might
easily pass unnoticed. Indeed, a witness who was standing
on the corner of Thirteenth-and-a-half street and Maryland
avenue, and saw the plaintiff going from the lamp toward
the railroad track, saw no train coming up from the bridge,
although h6 was looking in that direction.
We do not think that under these circumstances plaintiff
could be considered a trespasser in crossing the tracks. This
term is doubtless applicable to those who unnecessarily loiter upon, or walk along, a railway track as a convenient
path. But to say that the plaintiff, who was lighting lamps
on both sides of Maryland avenue, was bound every time he
crossed the track to do so at a street crossing, is to apply too
stringent a rule. The lamp which be had lighted and the one
which he had started to light were upon opposite sides of the
street, at a distance of from 100 to 150 feet from the crossing
of Thirteenth-and-a-half street. The rule contended for would
require the plaintiff,- after having lighted the lamp on the
south side, to'return to Thirteenth-and-a-half street, cross the
avenue at that point, and then go about half a block to a point
opposite the other, nearly double the distance required to
cross the tracks directly. This method would have to be
repeated every time he had occasion to cross the avenue. Of
course, if a fence had been built this would have been necessary, but in the absence of such fence we do not think that
the mere crossifig of the track in the convenient performance
of his duties made him a trespasseryer se. We have examined
the many cases cited by the plaintiff in error upon this point,
and find that nearly all of them either turned upon the question whether loitering upon, playing upon or walking along a
railroad track made a person a trespasser, or, whether in crossing a track, sufficient care was used to avoid approaching
trains. We are not prepared to give our adherence to the

BALTIMORE & POTOMAC R'D v. OUMBERLAND.

241

Opinion of the Co'rt.

doctrine announced in a very few cases, that a man who steps
his foot upon a railroad tradk, except at a crossing, does so at
his peril, though such doctrine when applied to the*facts of
the particular case may not have been an unjust one. We are
rather disposed to say that, where tracks are laid through
the streets of a city, upon or substantially upon the level of the
street, a person is not limited in crossing such -tracks to the
regular street crossings, but may cross them at any point
between such streets in the convenient performance of his
daifly duties. We cannot say that there was such danger to
an active boy crossing the track at this point as to authorize
the case to be taken from the jury upon the ground that he*
was iTpofacto a trespasser.
We have no desire to limit or qualify anything said by us
in Railroad Company v. Hou8ton, 95 U. S. 697, or in .Northern Pacific Railroadv. Freeman, 174 U. S. 379, both of which
involved the question of care at a regular highway crossing,
and we have no doubt that in the case under consideration
such care should have been used as the nature of the case
required, and the intellectual capacity of the plaintiff admitted.
But these were all questions for the jury, and were conclusively answered by the verdict. We cannbt say that the
court should have taken the case from the jury, or that it
erred in any material particular. We cannot even say that
we should have cosme to a different conclusion upon the facts.
Th3 judgment of the Court 'f Appeals was right, and it is
therefore
Affirmed.

MR.JUsTIcE WmTE and MR. JusTr e .owKnmA

VOL. mLXXW-16

dissented.

