MAXIWELL v. DOW.
Syllabus.

all know that one of the most important matters to be estab.
lished by a claimant is undoubted proof of payment."
To the point that the burden of proof was on the claimant
see also The Jenny, 5 Wall. 183; The Amiable 1sabella, 6
Wheat. 1; The Lilla, 2 Cliff. 169; Story's Prize Courts, 26.
We think that .the requirements of the law of prize were
not satisfied by the proofs in regard to this transfer, and on
all the evidence are of opinion that the court below was right
Decree aJfirmed.
in the conclusion at which it arrived.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS, MR. JusTICE WHITE

PEoxHAm

and

MR. JUSTICE

dissented.

MAXWELL

. DOW.

pI-58

f178 72[

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.'
lo. 84. Argued December 4,1899.-Decided February 26,1900.

The decision in Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S. 516, that the words "due
process of law" in the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States do not necessarily require an Indictment by a grand
jury in a prosecution by a State for murder, has been often affirmed,
and is now reaffirmed and applied to this case.
The privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States do not necessarily include all the rights protected by the first eight amendments to
the Federal Constitution against the powers of the Federal Government.
The trial of a person accused as a criminal by a jury of only eight persons
instead of twelve, and his subsequent imprisonment after conviction
do not abridge his privileges and immunities under the Constitution as
a citizen of the United States and do not deprive him of his liberty
without due process of law.
Whether a trial in criminal cases not capital shall be by a jury composed of
eight instead of twelve jurors, and whether, in case'of an infamous crime,
a 'person shall be only liable to be tried after presentment or indictment
by a grand jury, are proper to be determined by the citizens of each State
for themselves, and do not come within th Fourteenth Amendment to
the Constitution so long as all persons within the jurisdiction of the State
are made liable to be proceeded against by the same kind of piocedure,
and to have the same kind of trial, and the equal protection of :ie laws
is secured to them.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

TuE statement of the case is in the opinion of the court.
-Yrz.

J.

. N. Whiecotton for plaintiff in error.

2fr. Alexander C. Bishoy for defendant in error.' Mr.
William A. Lee was on his brief.
Mi. JUSTICE PEcxHAm delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 27th of June, 1898, an information was filed against
the plaintiff in error by the prosecuting attorney of the county,
in a state court of the State of Utah, charging him with the
crime of robbery committed within the county in May, 1898.
In September, 1898, he was tried before a jury composed of
but eight jurors, and convicted and sentenced to imprisonment
in the state prison for eighteen years, and since that time has
been confined in prison, undergoing the sentence of the state
court.
In May, 1899, he applied to the Supreme Court of the State
for a writ of habeas cowpu8, and alleged in his sworn petition
that he was a natural-born eitizen of the United States, and that
his imptisonment was unlawful, because he was prosecuted
under an information instead of by indictment by a grand
jury, and was tried by a jury composed of eight instead of
twelve jurors. ile specially set up and claimed (1) that to
prosecute him by information abridged his privileges and
immunities as a citizen of the United States, under article 5
of the amendments to the Constitution of the United States,
and also violated section 1 of article 14 of those amendments;
(2) that a trial by jury of only eight persons abridged his
privileges and immunities as a citizen of the United States,
under article 6, and also violated section 1 of article 14 of
such amendments; (3) that a trial by such a jury and his
subsequent imprisonment by reason of the verdict of that
jury deprived him of his liberty without due process of law,
-in violation of section 1 of article 14, which provides that
no State shall deprive any person of life, liberty or, property,
without due process of law.

MAXWELL v. DOW.
Opinion of the Court.

The Supreme Court of the State, after a hearing of the case,
denied the petition for a writ, and remanded the prisoner to
the custody of the keeper of the state prison, to undergo the
remainder of his sentence, and he then sued out a writ of error
and brought the case here.
The questions to be determined in this court are, (1) as to
the validity, with reference to the Federal Constitution, of the
proceeding against the plaintiff in error on an information
instead of by an indictment by a grand.jury; and (2) the validity of the trial of the plaintiff in error by a jury composed of
eight instead of twelve jurors.
We think the various questions raised by the plaintiff in
error have in substance, though not all in terms, been decided
by this court in the cases to which ,attention will be called.
The principles which have been announced in those cases
clearly prove the validity of the clauses in the constitution
of Utah which are herein attacked as in violation of the
Constitution of the United States. It will, therefore, be
.necessary in this case to do but littlbe else than call attention
to the former decisions of this court, and thereby furnish a
conclusive answer to the contentions of plaintiff in error..
The proceeding by information and also the trial by a jury,
composed of eight jurors, were both provided for by the state
constitution.
Section 13, article 1, of the cofistitution of Utah provides
"Offences heretofore required to be proseduted by indictment shall be prosecuted by information after examination
and commitment by a magistrate, unless the examination be
waived by the accused with the consent of the State, or by
indictment, with or without such examination and commitment. The grand jury shall consist of seven persons, five of
whom .must concur to find an indictment; but no grand jury
shall be drawn or summoned unless in the opinion of the
judge of the district public interest demands it."
Section 10, article 1, of that constitution is as follows:
"In capital cases the right of trial by jury shall remain
inviolate. In courts of general jurisdiction, except in capital
cases, a jury shall consist of eight jurors. Ini courts of infe-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

rior jurisdiction a jury shall consist of four jurors. In criminal cases the verdict shall be unanimous. In civil cases three
fourths of the jurors may find a verdict. A jury in civil
cases shall be waived unless demanded."
The objection that the proceeding by information does not
amount to due process of law has been heretofore overruled,
and'must be regarded as settled by the case of .furtado v.
California,110 U. S. 516. The case has since been frequently
approved. Hallinger v. Davis, 146 U. S. 314, 322; McNulty
v. California,149 U. S. 645; Hodgson v. Vermont, 168 U. S.
262, 272; Hlolden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 384 ; Brown v.
New Jersey, 175 U. S. 172, 176 ; Bolin v. Nebraska, 176 U. S.
.83.
But the 'plaintiff in error contends that the Ziurtado case
did not decide the question whether the state law violated
that clause in the Fourteenth Amendment which provides
that no State shall make or enforce any law which shall
abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United
States. Although the opinion is mainly devoted to an inquiry
whether the California law' was a violation of the "due process
clause" of the'above-mentioned-amendment, yet the matter in
issue in the case was as to the validity of the state law, and
the court held it valid. It was alleged by the counsel for the
plaintiff in error, before the court which passed sentence, that
the proceeding was in conflict with the Fifth and the Fourteenth Amendments, and those grounds were before this court.
The Fifth Amendment was referred to in the opinion delivered
in this court, and it was held not to have been violated by the
state law, although that amendment provides for an indictment by a grand jury. This decision could not have been
arrived at if a citizen of the United States were entitled, by
virtue of that clause of the Fourteenth Amendment relating
to the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United
States, to claim in a state court that he could not be prosecuted for an infamous crime unless upon an indictment by a
grand jury. In a Federal court no person can. be held to
answer for a capital or otherwise infamous crime unless by
indictment by a grand jury, with the exceptions stated in the

M AXWELL v. DOW.
Opinion of the Court.

Fifth Amendment. Yet this amendment was held in the
Hurtado ca8e not to apply to a prosecution for murder in a
state court pursuant to a state law. The claim was made in
the case (and referred to in the opinion) that the adoption of
the Fourteenth Amendment provided an additional security
to the individual against oppression by the States themselves,
and limited their powers to the same extent as the amendments theretofore adopted had limited the powers of the
Federal Government. By holding that the conviction 'upon
an information was valid, the court necessarily held that an
indictment was not necessary; that exemption from trial for
an infamous crime, excepting under an indictment, was not
one of those privileges or immunities of a citizen of the United
States which a State was prohibited from abridging. The
whold case was probably regarded as involved in the question
as to. due process of law. The particular objection founded
upon the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United
States is now taken and insisted upon in this case.
Under these circumstances it may not" be improper to
inquire as to the validity of a conviction in a state court, for
an infamous crime, upon an information filed by the proper
officer under the authority of the constitution and laws of the
State wherein the crime was committed and the conviction
took place; confining the inquiry to the question of the effect
of the provision in the Fourteenth Amendment prohibiting'
the States from making or enforcing any law which abridges
the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States.
To the other objection, that a conviction upon an information
deprives a person of his liberty without due process of law,
the'Hurtado case is, as we have said, a complete and conclusive answer.
The inquiry may be pursued in connection with that in
regard to the validity of the provision in the state constitution for a trial before a jury to be composed of but eight
jurors in criminal cases which ard not capital. One of the objections tb this provision is that its enforcement has abridged
the privileges and immunities of the plaintiff in error as a
citizen of the United States; the other objection being that a

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

conviction thus obtained has resulted in depriving.the plaintiff
in error of his liberty without due process of 'law. Postponing an inquiry in regard to this last objection until we have
examined the other, we proceed to inquire what are the privileges and immunities of a citizen of the United States which
no State can abridge? Do they include the right to be
exempt from trial, for an infamous crime, in a state court and
under state authority except upon presentment by a grand
jury? And do they also include the right in all criminal
prosecutions in a state court to be tried by a jury composed
of twelve jurors?
That a jury composed, as at common law, of twelve jurors
was intended by the Sixth Amendment to the Federal Constitution, there can be no doubt. Thomp80n v. Utah, 170 U. S.

343, 349. And as the right of trial by jury in certain suits
at common law is preserved by the Seventh Amendment, such
a trial implies that there shall be an unaniimous verdict of
twelve jurors in all Federal courts where a jury trial is held.
American Publishing Company v. Fisher, 166 U. S.464;
Springville v. Thomas, 166 U. S. 707.
It would seem to be quite plain that the provision in the
Utah constitution for a jury of eight jurors in all state criminal trials, for other than capital offences, violates the Sixth
Amendment, provided that amendment is now to be construed
as applicable to criminal prosecutions of citizens of the-United
States in state courts.
It is conceded that there are certain privileges or immunities possessed by a citizen of the United States, because of his
citizenship, and that they cannot be abridged by any action
of the States. In order to limit the powers which it was
feared might be claimed or exercised by the Federal Government, under the' provisions of the Constitution as it was when
adopted, the first ten amendments to that instrument were proposed to the legislatures of the several States by the first Congress on the 25th of September, 1789. They were intended
as restraints and limitations upon the powers of the General Government, and were not intended to and did not have
any effect upon the powers of the respective States. This has

MAXWELL v. DOW.
Opinion of the Court.

been many times decided. The cases herewith cited are to
that effect, and they cite many others which deQide the same
matter.' 8pies v.illinois,123 U. S. 131,166; Jlolden v. Rardy,
169 U. S. 366, 382; Brown v. New Jersey, 175 U. S. 172, 174:
It is claimed, however, that since the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment the effect of the former amendments has
been thereby changed and greatly enlarged. It is now urged
in substance that all the provisions contained in the first ten
amendments, so far as they secure and recognize the fundamental rights of the individual as against the exercise of Federal power, are by virtue of this amendment to be regarded as
privileges or immunities of a citizen of the United States, and,
therefore, the States 5annot provide for any procedure in state
courts which could not be followed in a Federal court because
of the limitations contained in those amendments. This was
also the contention made upon the argument in the Spies case,
123 U. S.131, 151; but in the opinion of the court therein,
which was delivered by Mr. Chief Justice Waite, the question
was not decided because it was held that the case did not
require its decision.
In the Slaughter-house cases, 16 Wall. 36, the subject of the
privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States, as distinguished from those of a particular State, was treated by
Mr. Justice Miller in delivering the opinion of the court.
He stated that the argument in favor of the plaintiffs, claiming that the brdinance of the city of New Orleans was invalid, rested wholly on the assumption that the citizenship is
the same and the privileges and immunities guaranteed by'the
Fourteenth Amendment are the same as to citizens of the
United States and citizens of the several States. This he
showed to be not well founded; that there was a citizenship of
the United States and a citizenship of the States, which were
distinct from each other, depending upon different characteristics and circumstances in the individual; that it was only
privileges and immunities of the citizen of the United States
that were placed by the amendment under the protection of
the Federal Constitution, and that the privileges and immunities of a citizen of a State, whatever they might be, were not

"588

OCTOBER TElRAI, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

intended to have any additional protection by the paragraph in
question, but they must rest for their security and protection
where they have heretofore rested.
He then proceeded t6 inquire as to the meaning of the words
"privileges and immunities" as used An the amendment, and
said that the first occurrence of the phrase in our constitutional
history is found to be in the fourth article of the old confederation, in which it was declared "that the better to secure and
perpetuate mutual friendship and intercourse among the people of the different States in this Union, the free inhabitants
of each of these States, paupers, vagabonds and fugitives from
justice excepted, shall be entitled to all the privileges and immunities of free citizens in the several States; and the people
of each State shall have free ingress and egress to ani from
any other State, and shall enjoy therein all the privileges of
trade and commerce, subject to the same duties, impositions
and restrictions as the inhabitants thereof respectively." A
provision corresponding to this, he found in the Constitution
of the United States in section 2 of the fourth article, wherein
it is provided that "the citizens of each State shall be entitled
to all the privileges and immunities of citizens of the several
States." What those privileges were is not defined in the
Constitution, but the justice said there could be but little question that the purpose of both those provisions was the same,
and that the privileges and immunities intended were the same
in. each. He then referred to the case of Coifleld v. Coryell,
decided by Mr. Justice Washington in the Circuit Court for the
District of Pqnnsylvania, in 1823, 4 Washington 0. C. 371,
where the question of the meaning of this clause in the Constitution was raised. Answering the question, what Nwere the
privileges and immunities of citizens of the several States, Mr.
Justice Washington said in that case:
"We feel no hesitation in confining these expressions to
those privileges and immunities which are in their nature
fundamental; which belong of right to the citizens of all free
governments, and which have at all times been enjoyed by
citizens of the several States which compose this Union from
the time of their becoming free, independent and sovereign

MAXWELL v. DOW.
Opinion of the Court.

What these fundamental principles are it would be more tedious than difficult to enumerate. They may, however, be all
comprehended linder the following general he~ds: Protection
by the government;

.

.

The enjoyment of life and lib-

erty with the right to acquire and possess property 9f every
kind, and to pursue and obtain happiness and safety, subject,
nevertheless, to sqch restraints as the government may pre.
scribe for the general good of the whole."
Having shown that prior to the Fourteenth Amendment the
legislation under review would have been regarded as relating to the privileges or immunities of citizens of the. State,
with which the United States had no concern, Justice Miller
continued:
"It would be the vainest show of learning. to attempt to
prove by citations of authority, that up t6 the adoption of the
recent amendments no claim or pretence was set up that those
rights depended on the Federal government for their existence
or protection, beyond the very few express limitations which
the Federal Constitution imposed upon the States such, for
instance, as the prohibition against ex Post facto laws, bills of
attainder and laws impairing the obligation of contracts. But,
with the exception of these and a few other restrictions, the
entire domain of the privileges and immunities of citizens of
the States, as above defined, lay within the constitutional and
'legislative power of the States, and without that-of the Federal
Government. Was it the purpose of the Fourteenth Amendment, by the simple declaration that no State should make or
enforce any law which shill abridge the privileges and immu-"
nities of citizens of the United States, to transfer the security
and protection of all the civil rights, which we have mentioned,
from'the States to the Federal Government? And where it is
declared that Congress shall have the power to enforce that
article, was it intended to bring within the power of Congress
the entire domain of civil rights heretofore belonging exclusively to the States?
"All this and more must follow, if the proposition of the
plaint ifs in error be sound. For not only are these rights subject to the control of Congress whenever in its discretion any

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

of them are supposed to be abridged by state legislation, but
that body may also pass laws in advance, limiting and restricting the exercise of legislative power by the States, in their
most ordinary and usual functions, as in its judgment it may
think proper on all such subjects. And still further, such a
construction followed by the reversal of the judgments of the
Supreme Court of Louisiana in these cases, would constitute
this court a perpetual censor upon all legislation of the States,
on the civil rights of their own citizens, with authority to nullify such as it did not approve as consistent with those rights,
as they existed at the time of the adoption of this amendment.
The argument we admit is not al'ways the most conclusive
which is drawn from the consequences urged against the adoption of a particular construction of an instrument. But when,
as in the case before us, these consequences are so serious, so
far-reaching and pervading, so great a departure from the
structure and spirit of our institutions; when the effect is to
fetter and degrade the State Governments by subjecting them
to the control of Congress in the exercise of power heretofore
universally conceded to them of the most ordinary and fundamental character; when, in fact, it radically changes the whole
theory of the relations of the State and Federal governments
to each other and of both these Governments to the people;
the argument has a force that is irresistible in the absence of
language which expresses such a purpose too clearly to admit of
doubt. We are convinced that no such results were intended
by the Congress which proposed these amendments, nor by the
legislatures of the States which. ratified them."
If the rights granted by the Louisiana legislature did not
infringe upon the privileges-or iiamunities of citizens of the
United States, the question arose as to what such privileges
were, and in enumerating some of them, without assuming to
state them all, it was said that a citizen of the United States,
as such, had the right to. come to the seat of government to
assert claims or transact business, to seek the protection of the
government or to share its offices; he had the right of free
access to its seaports, its various offices throughout the country, and to the courts of justice in the several States; to de-

MAXWELL v. DOW.
Opinion of the Court.

mand the care and protection of the General Government over
his life, liberty and property when on the high seas or within
the jurisdiction of a foreign government; the right, with.
othbrs, to peaceably assemble and'petition for a redress of '
grievances; the right to-the writ of habeas Co?:pus, and to use
the navigable waters of the United States, however they may
penetrate the territory of the several States; also all rights
secured to our citizens by treaties with foreign nations; the
right to become citizens of any State in the Union by a bona
,ide residence therein, with the same rights as other citizens of
that State; and the rights secured to him by the Thirteenth
and Fifteenth amendments to the Constitution. A right,
such as is claimed here, was not mentioned, and we may suppose it was regarded as pertaining to the State and not covered by the amendment.
Other objections to the judgment were fully examined, and
the iresult was reached that the legislation of the State of
Louisiana complained of violated no provision of the Constitution of the United States.
We have made this extended reference to the case because
of its great'importance, the thoroughness of the treatment 'of
the subject, and the great ability displayed by the author of
the opinion. Although his suggestion that only discrimination
by a State against the negroes as a class cr on account of their
race was covered by the amendment as to the equal protection of the laws, has not been affirmed by the later cases, yet
it was but the expression of his belief as to what would be
the decision of the court when a case came before it involving
that point. The opinion upon the matters actually involved
and maintained by the judgment in the case has never been
doubted or overruled by any judgment of this- court. It
remains one of the leading cases upon the subject of that
portion of the Fourteenth Amendment of which it treats.
The definition of the words "privileges and immunities," as
given by Mr. Justice Washington, was adopted in substance
in Paul v. Virginia,8 Wall. 168, 180, and in Ward v. A'aryland,12 Wall. 418, 430. These rights, it is said in the S&augk
ter-hou8c cases, have always been held to be the class of

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

rights which the State Governments were created to establish
and secure.
In the same volume as the Slaughter-house case8 is that of
Bradwell v. The State, 16 Wall. 130, where it is held that the
right to practice law in the courts of a State is not a privilege
or immunity of a citizen of the United States, within the
meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment. And in .M'inor v.
lappersett,21 Wall. 162, it was held that the right of suffrage
was not necessarily one of the privileges or immunities of
citizenship before the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment,
and although a woman was in one sense a citizen of the
United States, yet she did not obtain the iight of suffrage by
the adoption of that amendment. The right to vote is a most
important one in our form of government, yet it is not given
by the amendment.
In speaking of the meaning of the phrase "privileges and
immunities of citizens of the several States," under section
second, article fourth, of the Constitution, it was'said by the
present Chief Justice, in Cole v. Cunningham, 133 U. S. 107,
that the intention was "to confer on the citizens of the several
States a general citizenship, and to communicate all the privileges and immunities which the citizens of the same State would
be entitled to under the like circumstances, and this includes
the right to institute actions."
And in Blake v. _cClun, 172 U. S. 239, 248, various cases
are cited regarding the meaning of the words "privileges and
immunities," under the fourth article of the Constitution, in
not one of which is there any mention made of the right
claimed in this case, as one of the privileges or immunities
of citizens in the several States.
These cases show the meaning which the courts have
attached to the expression, as used in the fourth article of
the Constitution, and the argument is not labored which
gives the same meaning to it when used in the Fourteenth
Amendment.

-

That the primary reason for that amendment was to secure
the full enjoyment of liberty to the colored race is not denied,
yet it is not restricted to that purpose, and it applies to every

bJAXWELL v. DOW.
Opinion of the Court.

one, white or black, that comes within its provisions. But,
as said in the Slaughhit'-house cases, the protection of the
citizen in his rights as a citizen of the State still remains with
the State. This principle is again announced in the decision
in. United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U.. S. 542, wherein it is
said that sovereignty, for the protection of the rights of life.
and personal liberty within the rdspective States, rests alone
with the States. But if all these. rights are included in the
phrase "privileges and immunities"' of citizens of the United
States, which the States by reason of the Fourteenth Amendment cannot in any manner abridge, then the sovereignty of
the State inregard to them has been entirely destroyed, and
the Slahgkter-house cases, and United States-v. CIuikshank
are all wrong, and should be overruled.
It was said in .Mino v. Rappersett, supra, that the amendment did not add to the privileges and immunities of a citizen;
it simply furnished an additional guaranty for the protection
of such as he already had. And in In ?-a Kenmler, 136 U. S.
436, 448, it was stated by the present Chief Justice that "The Fourteenth Amendment did not radically change the
whole theory of the relations of the state and Federal govern*ments to each other, and of both governments to the people.
The same person may be at the same time a citizen of the
United States and a citizen of a State. Protection to life,
liberty and property rests primarily, with the States, and the
amendment furnishes an additional guaranty against any
encroachment by the States Upon those fundamental rights
which belong to citizenship, and which the state governments
were created to secure. The privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States, as distinguished from the privileges
and immunities of citizens of the States, are indeed protected
by it; but those are privileges and immunities arising out of
the nature and essential character of the National government, and granted or secured by the Constitution of the
United States. United States v. Cruiks~hnc, 92 U. S. 54
& aughter-kouse cases, 16 Wall. 36."
In Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, (4th ed. p. 497, mar
ginal page 397,) the .author says:
VOL.CLXXVI---38

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

"Although the precise meaning of 'privileges and immu.
nities' is not very conclusively settled as yet, it appears to
be conceded that the Constitution secures in each State to the
citizens of all other States the right to remove to and carry
on business therein; the right by the usual modes to acquire
and hold property, and to protect and defend the same in the
law; the right to the usual remedies for the collection of debts
and the enforcement of other personal rights, and the right
to be exempt, in property and person, from taxes or burdens
which the property or persons of citizens of the same State are
not subject to."
There is no intimatioi here that among the privileges or immunities of a citizen of the United States are the right of trial
by jury in a state court for a state offence and the right to be
exempt from any trial for an infainous crime, unless upon presentment by a grand jury. And yet if these were such privileges and immunities, they would be among the first that
would occur to any one when enumerating or defining them.
Nor would these rights come under the description, given by
the Chief Justice in the Ifemmler case, supra. Such privileges
or immunities do not arise out of the nature or essential character of the National Government.
In Walker v. Sauvinet, 92 U. S. 90, it was held that a trial
by jury in suits at common law in the state courts was not a
privilege or immunity belonging to a person as a citizen of the
United States, and protected, therefore, by the Fourteenth
Amendment. The action was tried without a jury by virtue
of an act of the legislature of the State of Louisiana. The
plaintiff in error objected to such a trial, alleging that he had
a constitutional right to a trial by jury, and that the statute
was void to the extent that it deprived him of that right.
The objection was overruled. Mr. Chief Justice Waite, in
delivering the opinion of the court, said:
"By article 7 of the amendments it is provided that ' in suits
at common law, where the value in controversy shall exceed
twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be preserved.'
This, as has been many times decided, relates only to trials in
the courts of the United States. Edwards v. Elliott, 21 Wall.

MAXWELL v. DOW.
Opinion of the Court.

532, 557. The States, so far as this amendment is concerned,
are left to regulate trials in their own courts in their own way.
A trial by jury in suits at common law pending in the state
courts is not, therefore, a privilege or immunity of national
citizenship, which the States are forbidden by the Fourteenth
Amendment to abridge. A State cannot deprive a person of
his property without due process of law; but this does not
necessarily imply that all trials in the state courts affecting
the property of persons must be by jury. This requirement of
the Constitution is met if the trial is had according to the settled course of judicial proceedings. .furray's Lessee v. Hoboken Land c Improvement Co., 18 Iow. 272, 280. Due process
of law is process due according to the law of the land. This
process in the States is regulated by-the law of the State. Our
power over that law is only to determine whether it is in conflict with the supreme law of the land -that is to say, with
the Constitution and laws of the United States made in pursuance thereof -or with any treaty made under the authority of
the United States."
This case shows that the Fourteenth Amenoment in forbidding a State to abridge the privileges or immunities of.citizens
of the United States, does .not include among them the right
of trial by jury in a civil case, in a state court, although the
right to such a trial in the Federal courts is specially secured
to all persons in the cases mentioned in the Seventh Amendment.
Is any one of the rights secured to the individual by the
Fifth or by the Sixth Amendment any more a privilege or immunity of a citizen of the United States than are those secured
by the Seventh ? In none are they privileges or immunities
granted and belonging to the individual as a citizen of the
United States, but they are secured to all persons as against
the Federal Government, entirely irrespective of such citizenship. ]s the individual does not enjoy them as a privilege of
citizenship of the United States, therefore, when the Fourteenth
Amendment prohibits the abridgment byithe States of those
privileges or immunities which he enjoys as such citizen, it is
not correct or reasonable to say that it covers and extends to

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

certain rights which he does not enjoy by reason of his citi.
zenship, but simply because those rights exist in favor of
all individuals as against Federal govermental powers. The
nature or character of the right of trial by jury is the same
in a criminal prosecution as in a civil action, and in neither
case does it spring from nor is it founded upon the citizenship of the individual as a citizen of the United States, and
if not, then it cannot be said that in either case it is a privilege or immunity which alone belongs to him as such citizen.
So it was held in the oyster planting case, XeCready v.
Virginia, 91 U. S. 391, that the right which the people of
that State acquired to appropriate its tide waters and the
beds therein for taking and cultivating fish, was but a regulation of the use, ly the people, of their common property,
and the right thus acquired did not come from their citizenship alone, but from their citizenship and property combined.
It was, therefore, a property right and not a mere privilege
or.immunity of citizenship, and, for that reason, the citizen of
one State was not invested by the Constitution of the United
States with any interest in the common property of the citizens
of another State.
This was a decision under another section of the Constitution (section second of article fourth) from the one under discussion, and it gives to the citizens of each State all privileges
and immunities of citizens of the several States, but it is cited
for the purpose of showing that where the privilege or immunity does not rest alone upon citizenship, a citizen of another
State does not participate therein.
In this case the privilege or immunity claimed does not rest
upon the individual by virtue of his national citizenship, and
hence is not protected by a clause which simply prohibits the
abridgment of the'privileges or immunities of citizens of the
United States. Those are not distinctly privileges or immunities of such citizenship, where every one has the same as against
the Federal Government, whether citizen or not.
The Fourteenth Amendment, it must be remembered, did
not add to those privileges or immunities. The Sauvinet case
is an authority in favor of the contention that the amendment

MAXWELL v. DOW.
Opinion of the Court.

does not preclude the -States by their constitutions and laws
from altering the rule as to indictment by a grand jury, or as
to the number of jurors necessary to compose a petit jury in
a criminal case not capital.
The same reasoning is applicable to the case of Kennard.v,
Louisiana,92 U. S. 480, although that case was decided with
special reference to the "due process of law" clause.
In .femmler's ease, 136 U. S. 436, it was stated that it was
not contended and could not be that the Eighth Amendment
to the Federal Constitution was intended to apply to the States.
This was said long after the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment, and also subsequent to the making of the claim that by
its adoption the limitations of the preceding amendments had
been altered and enlarged so as in effect to make them applicable to proceedings in the state courts.
In Presser v. llinois, 116 U. S.252, it was held that the
Second Amendment to the Constitution, in regard to the right
of the people to bear arms, is a limitation only on the power
of Congress and the National Government, and not of the
States. It was therein said, however, that as all citizens capable of bearing arms constitute the reserved military force of
the National Government, the States could not prohibit the
people from keeping and bearing arms, so as to deprive
the United States of their rightful resource for maintaining
the public security, and disable the people from performing
their duty to the General Government.
In O'lYeil v. Vermont, 144 U. S.323, 332, it was stated that
as a geperal question it has always been ruled that the Eighth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States does not
apply to the States.
In Tiorington v. .ontgomery, 147 U. S.490, it was said
that the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution operates exclusively in restraint of Federal .power, and has no application
to the States.
We have cited these cases for the purpose of showing that
the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States
do not necessarily include all the rights protected by the first
eight amendments to the Federal Constitution against the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

powers of the Federal Government. They were dedided subsequently to the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment, and
if the particular clause of that amendment, now under consideration, had the effect claimed for it in this case, it is not too
much to say that it would have been asserted and the principles applied in some of them.
It has been held that the last clause of the Seventh Amendment, which provides that no fact tried by a jury shall be
otherwise reexamined in any court of the United States, than
according to the rules of the common law, is not confined to
trials by jury in Federal courts, but applies equally to a cause
tried before a jury in a state court and brought thence before
a Federal court. The Jaticm v. .Aurray, 9 Wall. 274; Chicago, Burlington &o. Railroad v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226;

Capital Traction Company v. Tof, 174 U. S. 1. But these
decisions only carry out the idea that the amendment is a
restraint upon Federal power, and not upon the power of the
State, inasmuch as they declare that the clause restricts the
right of the Federal courts to regxamine the facts found by
a jury in a state court, as well as in a Federal one.
In .Mimsouri v. ]ewi8, 101 U. S. 22, it was held that the
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, which prohibits a State
from denying to any person the equal protection of the laws,
did not thereby prohibit the State from prescribing the jurisdiction of its several courts either as to their territorial limits
or the subject-matter, or amount or finality of their respective
judgments or decrees; that a State might establish one system
of law in one portion of its territory and another system in
another, provided it did not encroach upon the proper jurisdiction of the United States, nor abridge the privileges or
immunities of citizens of the United States, nor deny to any
person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws
in the same district, nor deprive him of his rights without
due process of law. In the course of the opinion, which was
delivered by Mr. Justice Bradley, he said:
"We might go still ftrther and say, with undoubted truth,
that there is nothing in Whe Constitution to prevent any State
from adopting any system of laws or judicature it sees fit for

IMAXWELL v. DOW.
Opinion of the Court.

all or any part of its territory. If the State of New York,
for example, should see fit to adopt the civil law and its
method of procedure for New York City and the surrounding counties, and the common law and its method of procedure
for the rest of the State, there is nothing in the Constitution
of the United States to prevent its doing so. This would not
of itself, within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment,
be a denial to any person of the equal protection of the laws.
If every person residing or being in oither portion of the State
should be accorded the equal protection of the laws prevailing
there he could not justly complain of a violation of the clause
referred to. For, as before said, it has respect to persons and
classes of persons. It means that no person or class of persons
shall be denied the same pi-otection of the laws which is enjoyed by other persons or other classes in the same place and
under like circumstances. The Fourteenth Amendment does
not profess to secure to all persons in the United States the
benefit of the same laws and the same remedies. Great diversities in these respects may-exist iii two States separated only
by an imaginary line. On one side of this line there may be
a right of trial by jury, and on the other side no such right.
Each State prescribes its own modes of judicial proceeding.
If diversities of laws and judicial proceedings may exist in
the several States without violating the equality clause in the
Fourteenth Amendment, there is no solid reason why there
may not be such diversities in different parts of the same
State. A uniformity which is not essential as regards different States cannot be essential as regards different parts of a
State, provided that in each and all there is no infraction of
the constitutional provision. Diversities which are allowable
in different States are allowable in different parts of the same
State. Where part of a State is thickly settled, and another
part has but few inhabitants, it may be desirable to have different systems of judicature for the two portions-trial by
jury in one, for example, and not in the other. Large cities
may require a multiplication of courts and a peculiar arrangement of jurisdictions. It would be an unfortunat6 restriction
of the powers of the state government if it could *not,in its

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

discretion, provide for these various exigencies. If a Mexican
State should be acquired by treaty and added to an adjoining
State or part of a State in the United States, and the two
should be erected into a new State, it cannot be doubted that
such new State might allow the Mexican laws and judicature
to continue unchanged in the one portion, and the common
law and its corresponding judicature in the other portion.
Such an arrangement would not be prohibited by any fair
construction of the Fourteenth Amendment. It would not
be based on any respect of persons or classes, but on municipal considerations alone, and a regard for the welfare of all
classes within the particular territory or jurisdiction."
Although this case was principally discussed under that
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment which prohibits a State
from denying to any person within its jurisdiction the equal
protection of the laws, yet the application of the amendment
with regard to the privileges or immunities of citizens of the
United States was also referred to, and if it had been supposed
that it secured to a citizen of the United States, when proceeded against under state authority, all the privileges and
immunities set forth in the first eight amendments to the
Federal Constitution, Mr. Justice Bradley could not, in the
course of his opinion in the case, have said that a trial by jury
might exist as a right in one State and not exist in another.
Trial by jury would in such case have been protected under the
Fourteenth Amendment, because it was granted to all persons
by article six in all criminal prosecutions in the Federal courts,
and by article seven in civil actions at common law, where the
value in controversy should exceed twenty dollars. On the contrary, it was stated that great diversity in these respects might
exist in two States separated only by an imaginary line, on
one side of which there might be a right of trial by jury, and
on the other side no such right. Each State, it was said, prescribes its own modes. of judicial procedure. The decision of
this case was: by a unanimous court, and the remarks of the
justice are wholly irreconcilable with the existence of a right
of trial by-ury in a state court which was guaranteed and protected by the Fourteenth Amendment, notwithstanding the

MAXWELL v. DOW.
Opinion of the Court.

denial of such right by and under the constitution and laws of
the State.
The principle to be deduced from these various cases is that
the rights claimed by the plaintiff in error rest with the state
governments, and are not protected by the particular clause of
the amendment under discussion. What protection may be
afforded the individual against state legislation or the procedure in state courts or tribunals under other clauses of the
amendment, we do not now inquire, as what has been hereto- fore said is restricted to the particular clause of that amendment which is now spoken of, the'privileges or immunities of
citizens of the United States.
Counsel for plaintiff in error has cited from the speech of
one of the Senators of the United States, made in the Senate
when the proposed Fourteenth Amendment was under consideration by that body, wherein he stated that among the
privileges and immunities which the committee having the
amendment in charge sought to protect aga-mfst invasion or
abridgment by the States, were included those set forth in
the first eight amendments to the Constitution, and counsel
has argued that this court should, therefore, give that construction to the amendment which was contended for by the
Senator in his speech.
What speeches were made by other Senators, and by Representatives in the House, upon this subject is not stated by
counsel, nor does he state what construction was given to it, if
any, by other members of Congress. It is clear that what is
said in Cohgress upon such an occasion may or may not express the views of the majority of those who favor the adoption of the measure which may be before that body, and the
question whether the proposed amendment itself expresses the
meaning which those who spoke in its favor may have assumed
that it did, is one to be determined by the language actually
therein used and .not by the speeches made regarding it.
What individual Senators or Representatives may have urged
in debate, in regard to the meaning to be given to a proposed
constitutional amendment, or bill or resolution, does not furnish
a firm ground for its proper construction, nor is it important

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

as explanatory of the grounds upon which the members voted
in adopting it. United States v. Trans-M3issouriFreightAssociation, 166 U. S. 290, 318; Danlap v. United States, 173 U. S.
65, 75.
In the case of a constitutional amendment it is of less materiality than in that of an ordinary bill or resolution. A constitutional amendment must be agreed to, not only by Senators
and Representatives, but it must be ratified by the legislatures,
or by conventions, in three fourths of the States before such
amendment can take effect. The safe way is to read its language in connection with the known condition of affairs out
of which the occasion for its adoption -may have arisen, and
then to construe it, if there be therein any doubtful expressions, ina way so far as is reasonably possible, to forward the
known purpose or object for which the amendment was
adopted. This rule could not, of course, be so used as to limit
the force and effect of an amendment in a manner which the
plain and unambiguous language used therein would not justify or permit.
,For the reasons stated, we come to the conclusion that the
clause under consideration does not affect the validity of the
Utah constitution and legislation.
The remaining question is, whether in denying the right of
an individual, in all criminal cases not capital, to have a jury
composed of twelve jurors, the State deprives him of life, liberty or property, without due process of law.
This question is, as we believe, substantially answered by
the" reasoning of the opinion in the Hurtado case, supra.
The distinct question was there presented whether it was due
process of law to prosecute a person charged with murder by
an information under the state constitution and law. It was
held that it was, and that the Fourteenth Amendment did not
prohibit such a procedure. In our opinion the right to be
exempt from prosecution for an infamous crime, except upon
a presentment by a grand jury, is of the same nature as the
right to a petit jury of the number fixed by the common law.
If the State have the power to abolish the grand jury and the
consequent proceeding by indictment, the same course of rea-

MAXWELL v. DOW.
Opinion of the Court.

soning which establishes that right will and does establish the
right to alter the number of the petit jury from that provided
by the common law. Many cases upon the subject since the
Rurtado case was decided are to be found gathered in Iodgson
v. Vermont,168 U. S. 262; Holdem v. flardy, 169 U. S.366,
381; Brown v. New Jersey, 175 U. S. 172; Bolln v. Nebraska,
176 U. S. 83.
Trial by jury has never been affirmed to be a necessary
requisite of due process of law. In pot one of the cases cited
and commented upon in the Hurtado case is a trial by jury
mentioned as a necessary part of such process.
In In re Converse, 137 U. S. 624, it was stated that the
Fourteenth Amendment was not designed to interfere with
the power of a State to protect the lives, liberty and property
of its citizens, nor with the exercise of that power in the adjudications of the courts of a State .in administering process
provided by the law of the State.
In Caldwell v. Texats, 137 U. S. 692, it was held that no
State can deprive particular persons or classes of persons of
equal and impartial justice under the law, without violating
the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment to the 'Constitution, and that due process of law, within the meaning of the
Constitution, is secured when the laws operate on all alike,
and no one is subjected to partial or arbitrary exercise of the
powers of government.
In leeper v. Texas, 139 U. S. 462, 467, it was said "that
by the Fourteenth Amendment the powers of States in dealing with crime within their borders are not limited, except.
that no State can deprive particular persons, or class of persons, of equal and impartial justice under the law; that law in
its regular course of administration through courts of justice
is due process, and YWhen secured by the law of the State the
constitutional requirement is satisfied; and that due process
is so secured by laws operating on all alike, and not subjecting the individual to the arbitrary exercise of the powers of
government unrestrained by the established principles of
private right and distributive justice. LHartado v. California,
110 U. S.516, 535, and cases cited." See also for statement

6011."

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

as to due process of law the cases of Davidsonv. -Yew Orleans,
96 U. S. 97; Hagar v. Reclamation District, 111 U. S. 701,

707.
The clause has been held to extend to a proceeding conducted to judgment in a state court under a valid statute of
the State, if such judgment resulted in the taking of private,
property for public use, without compensation made or secured
to the owner, under the conditions mentioned in the cases
herewith cited. Chicago, Burlington &o.Railroadv. Chicago,
166 U. oS. 226; Backus v. Fort Street Union Depot Company,
169 U. S.557.
It has also been held not to impair the police power of a
State. Barier v. Connolly, 113 U. S.27.
It appears to us that the questions whether a trial in criminal cases not capital shall be by a jury composed of eight
instead of twelve jurors, and whether in case of an infamous
crime a person shall only be liable to be tried after presentment or indictment of a grand jury, are eminently proper
to be determined by the citizens of each State for themselves,
and do not come within the clause of the amendment under
-consideration, so long as all persons within the jurisdiction of
the State are made liable to be proceeded against by the
same kind of procedure and to have the same kind of trial,
and the equal protection of the laws is secured to them.
Caldwell v. Texas, 137 U. S.692; Leeper v. Texas, 139 U. S.
462. It is emphatically the case of the people by their
organic law, providing for their own affairs, and we are of
opinion they are much better judges of what they ought to
have in these respects than any one else can be. The reasons
given in the learned and most able opinion of Mr. Justice
Matthews, in the THturtado case, for the judgment therein
rendered, apply with equal force in regard to a trial by a
jury of less than twelve jurors. The right to be proceeded
against only by indictment, and the right to a trial by
twelve jurors, are of the same nature, and are subject to
the same judgment, and the people in the several States
have the same right to provide by their organic law for the
change of both or either. Under this construction of the

MAXWELL v. DOW.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

amendment there can be no just fear that the liberties of
the citizen will not be carefully protected by the States
respectively. It is a case of self-protection, and the people
can be trusted to look out and care for themselves. There
is no reason to doubt their willingness or their ability to do
so, and when providing in their constitution and legislation
for the manner in which civil or criminal actions shall be
tried, it is in entire conformity with the character of the
Federal Government that they should have the right to
decide for themselves what shall be the form and character
of the procedure in such trials, whether there shall be an
indictment or an information only, whether there shall be a
jury of twelve or a lesser number, and whether the verdict
must be unanimous or not. These are matters which have
no relation to the character of the Federal Government. As
was stated by Mr. Justice Brewer, in delivering the opinion
of the court in Brown v. New Jersey, 175 U. S. 172, the
State has full control over the procedure in its courts, both
in civil and criminal cases, subject only to the qualification
that such procedure must not work a denial of fundamental
rights or conflict with specific and applicable provisions of
the Federal Constitution. The legislation in question is not,
in our opinion, open to either of these objections.
Judged by the various cases in this court we think there
is no error in this record, and the judgment of the Supreme
Afimed.
Court of Utah must, therefore, be
IM. JustcE HARLAw, dissenting.
Under an information filed against him in one of the courts
of the State of Utah, Maxwell, the plaintiff in error, a citizen
of the United States, was convicted of the crime of robbery,
and having been tried by a jury consisting of eight persons
was found guilty and sentenced to confinement in the penitentiary for the term of eighteen years.
He insists that his imprisonment is in violation of the Constitution of the United States in that'he was proceeded against
by information - not by indictment or presentment of a grand

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

jury - and was tried for an infamous crime by a jury composed
of less than twelve persons.
By its opinion and judgment just rendered this court holds
that neither the prosecution by information nor the trial by
eight jurors was in violation of the Constitution of the United
States.

Upon the first point I do not care to say anything.

For, in

REurtado v. California,110 U. S. 516, this court held that a
state enactment authorizing the prosecution by information
for the crime of murder in the first degree -the penalty for
such crime being death- was not in violation of the Constitution of the United States. The principles there announced
have been reaffirmed in later cases. In the ilurtado case I
dissented from the opinion and judgment of the court and
stated fully the reasons why, in my judgment, no civil tribunal
or court, Federal or state, could legally try a citizen of the
United States for an infamous crime otherwise than on the
indictment or presentment of a grand jury. I adhere to
the views then expressed, but further discussion of the question decided seems unnecessary.
The remaining question in the present case is whether the
trial of the accused by eight jurors is forbidden by the Constitution of the United States.
The Fourteenth Amendment, after declaring that all persons
born or naturalized in the United States and subject to the
jurisdiction thereof are citizens of the United States and of
the State wherein they reside, provides that "n o State shall
make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or
immunities of citizens of the United States," nor "shall any
State deprive any person of life, liberty or property without
due process of law."
What are the privileges and immunities 6f "citizens of tnt.
United States"? Without attempting to enumerate them, it
ought to be deemed safe to say that such privileges and immunities embrace at least those expressly recognized by the
Constitution of the United States and placed beyond the power
of Congress to take away or impair.
When the Constitution was adopted by the Convention of

MAXWELL v. DOW.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

1787 and placed before the people for their acceptance or
rejection, many wise statesmen whose patriotism no one then
questioned or now questions earnestly objected to its acceptance
upon the ground that it did not contain a Bill of Rights guarding the fundamental guarantees of life, liberty and property
against the unwarranted exercise of power by the National Government. But the friends of the Constitution, believing that
the failure to accept it would destroy all hope for permanent
union among the people of the original States, and following
theadvice of Washington who was the leader of the constitutional forces, met this objection by showing that when the
Constitution had been accepted by the requisite number of"
States and thereby become the supreme law of the land, such
amendments could be adopted as would relieve the apprehensions of those who deemed it necessary, by express provisions,
to guard against the infringement by the .agencies of the General Government of any of the essential rights of American
freemen. This view prevailed, and the implied pledge thus
given was carried out by the first Congress, which promptly
adopted and submitted to the people of the several States the
first ten amendments. These amendments have ever since
been regarded as the National Bill of Rights.
Let us look at some of those amendments. It is declared
by the First, "Congress shall make no Paw respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof, or
abridging the freedom of speech or of the press, or the right of
the people peaceably to assemble and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances;" by the Third, "no soldier
shall in time of peace be quartered in any house, without the
consent of the owner, nor in time of war, but in a manner to
be prescribed by law;" by the Fourth, "the right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers and effects
against unreasonable searches and seizures shall not be violated,
and no warrants shall issue but upon probable cause, supported
by oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to
be searched, and the persons or things to be seized ;" by the
Fifth, no person shall "be subject for the same offence to be
twice put in jeopardy of life or limb, nor shall he be compelled

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

in any criminal case to be a witness against himself, nor be deprived of life, liberty or property without due process of law,
nor shall private property be taken for public use, without just
compensation;" by the Sixth, "in all criminal prosecutions the
accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial, by
an impartial jury of the State and district wherein the crime
shall have been committed, which district shall have been previously ascertained by law, and to be informed of the nature
and cause of the accusation, to be confronted with the witnesses against him, to have compulsory process for obtaining
witnesses in his favor, and to have the assistance of counsel for
his defence;" and by the Eighth, "excessive bail shall not be
required nor excessive fines imposed, nor cruel and unusual
punishments inflicted."
It seems to me that the privileges and immunities enumerated in these amendments belong to every citizen of the
United States. They were universally so regarded prior to the
adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment. In order to form
a more perfect union, establish justice, insure domestic tranquillity, provide for the common defence, promote the general
welfare and secure the blessings of liberty to themselves and
their posterity, the political community known as the People
of the United States ordained and established the Constitution of the United States; and every member of that political
community was a citizen of the United States. It was that commun.ity that adopted, in the mode prescribed by the Constitulion, the first ten amendments; and what they had in view by
so doing was to make it certain that the privileges and immunities therein specified -the enjoyment of which, the fathers
believed, were necessary in order to secure the blessings of
liberty- could never be impaired or destroyed by the National
Government.
Now, the original Constitution declared that "the trial of
all crimes, except in case of impeachment, shall be by jury."
This was supplemented by the Sixth Amendment, declaring
'that in all criminal prosecutions the accused should enjoy the
right to a speedy and public trial by an impartial jury of the
State and district wherein the crime was committed. And

MAXWELL v. DOW.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

we have held that the jury here referred to was a common law
jury consisting of neither more or less than twelve persons,
whose unanimous verdict was necessary to acquit or convict
the accused; that a jury of less number was not admissible in
any criminal trial in the District of Columbia or in a Territory
of the United States, or in any prosecution of a criminal character in a court of the United States or in any court organized
under the authority of the United States. Callan v. ls19on,
127 U. S. 540; Tiompson v. Utah, 170 U. S. 343: We have
often adjudged that the declaration in Magna Oharta that the
King would not pass upon any freeman, nor condemn him,
"but by the lawful judgment of his peers," referred to a jury
of twelve persons.
It is not difficult to understand why the fathers intrenched
the right of trial by jury in the supreme law of the land.
They regarded the recognition and exercise of that right as
vital to the protection of liberty against arbitrary power. Mr.
Hallam in his Constitutional History of England, after observing that liberty had been the slow fruit of ages, said that as
early as the ieign of Henry VII one of the essential checks
upon royal power was that "the fact of guilt or innocence on
a criminal charge was determined in a public court, and in the
county where the offence was alleged to have occurred, by a
jury of twelve men, from whose unanimous verdict no appeal
could be made." And it is an interesting fact that the first
ordinance adopted by the Plymouth Colony in 1623 was one
declaring among other things that "all criminal facts" should
be tried "by the verdict of twelve honest men to be impanneled
by authority, in form of a jurye upon their oaths." The value
of that institutiofi was recognized by the patriotic men of'the
Revolutionary period when in the Declaration of Independence
they complained that the King of Great Britain had deprived
the .people of* the Colonies in many cases of the benefits of
trial by jury. Referring to the provisions of the Federal Constitution relating to the personal security of citizens of the
United States, Kent says they,"must be regarded as fundamental in every State, for the colonies were parties to the
national declaration of rights in 1774, in which the trial by
VOL. CLXXVI-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

jury, and the other rights and liberties of English subjects were
peremptorily claimed as their undoubted inheritance and birthright." Upon this general subject. Mr. Justice Story in his
Commentaries on the Constitution has said: "It was under the
consciousness of the full possession of the rights, liberties and
immunities of British subjects, that the colonists in almost all
the early legislation of their respective assemblies insisted upon
a declaratory act, acknowledging and confirming them. And
for the most part they thus succeeded in obtaining a real and
effective Magna Charta of their liberties. The trial by jury
in all cases, civil and criminal, was as firmly and universally
established in the colonies as in the mother country." 1 Story's
Const.  165. Again, the same eminent jurist says: "It seems
hardly necessary in this place to expatiate upon the antiquity
or importance of the trial by jury in criminal cases. It was
from very early times insisted on by our ancestors in the parent country, as the great bulwark of their civil and political
liberties, and watched with an unceasing jealousy and solici-'
tude. The right constitutes one of the fundamental articles of
Magna Charta, in which it is declared, nullus homo c.piatur,
nec imprionetur,aut exuletur, aut aliquo modo de8truatur,&o.;
ni8i per legale judicium parium suorum, vel yer legem terrce;
no man shall be arrested, nor imprisoned, nor banished, nor
deprived of life, etc., but by the judgment of his peers, or by
the law of the land. The judgment of his peers here alluded
to, and commonly called, in the quaint language of former
times, a trial per paia, or trial by the country, is the trial by a
jury, who are called the peers of the party accused, being of
the like condition and equality in the State. When our more
immediate ancestors removed to America,. they brought this
privilege with .them, as their birthright and inheritance, as a
part of that admirable common law which had fenced round
and interposed barriers on every side against the approaches of
arbitrary power. It is now incorporated into all our state constitutions as a fundamental right, and the Constitution of the
United States would have been justly obnoxious to the most
conclusive objection if it had not recognized and confirmed it
in the most solemn terms. The great object of a trial by jury

MAXWELL v. DOW.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

in criminal cases is to guard against a spirit of oppression and
tyranny on the part of rulers, and against a spirit of violence
and vindictiveness on the part of the people. Indeed, it is
often more important to guard against the latter than the former." 2 Story's Const.  1779. Blackstone has said: "A
celebrated French writer, who concludes that because Rome,
Sparta and Carthage have lost their liberties, therefore those
of England-in time must perish, should have recollected that
Rome, Sparta and Carthage, at the time when their liberties
were lost, were strangers to the trial by jury." 2 BI. Com.
379. In a recent American work on trial by jury the author
well says: "The English colonists settled here with a deeprooted regard for this right. It had been, no doubt, to them
in the mother country a valuable protection. They brought it
with them and established it as one of their dearest privileges,
and in every enumeration of their rights and immunities it
takes a conspicuous place." Again, the same author: "Ever
since Yagna Charta, the right to a trial by jury has been
esteemed a peculiarly dear and inestimable privilege by the
English race; and whether in a strictly historical view the
right was defined or secured by that instrument or not, it was
nevertheless invariably appealed to and implicitly relied on as
unalterably and .inviolably securing the right among other valuable privileges guaranteed therein. During long centuries,
when popular rights were overborne by prerogative or despotism, those who claimed and were denied the right to such a
trial, founded their demand on the guarantee of the Great
Charter, and solemnly protested against its violation when the
privilege was denied them; and whenever an invasion or violation of individual rights was threatened, the security afforded
by this guarantee was relied on as an effectual safeguard either
to repel the attack or nullify its effect." Proffat on Jury
Trials, % 81, 82. And this court has declared that "the trial
by jury is justly dear to the American people. It has always
been an object of deep interest and solicitude, and every- encroachment upon it has been watched with great jealousy."
Parsons v. Bedfol'd, 3 Pet. 433, 446.

Notwithstanding this history of the incorporation into the

OCTOBER TERMi,

1899.

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

Constitution of the United States of the provision relating to
trial by jury, it is now adjudged that immunity from trial for
crime except by a jury of twelve jurors is not an immunity
belonging to citizens of the United States within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment.
It does not solve the question before us to say that the first
ten amendments bad reference only to the powers of the
National Government and not to the powers of the States.
For if prior to the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment
it was one of the privileges or irfimunities of citizens of the
United States that they should not be tried for crime in any
court organized or existing under National authority except
by a jury composed of twelve peisons, how can it be that a
citizen of the United States may be now tried in a state court
for crime, particularly for an infamous crime, by eight jurors,
when that amendment expressly declares that "no State shall
make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges
or immunities of citizens of the United States"? It does not
meet the case to say that a trial by eight jurors is as much
a trial by jury as if there were twelve jurors; for if a citizen
charged with crime can be subjected to trial by a less number
of jurors than that prescribed by the Constitution, the number
may be reduced to three. Indeed, under the interpretation
now given to the amendment, it will, I think, be impossible
to escape the conclusion that a State may abolish trial by
jury altogether in a criminal case, however grave the offence
charged, and authorize the trial of a case of felony befor6 a
single judge. I cannot assent to this interpretation, because
it is opposed to the plain words of the Constitution, and defeats
the manifest object of the Fourteenth Amendment.
I am of opinion that under the original Constitution and
the Sixth Amendment, it is one of the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States that when charged with
crime they shall be tried only by a jury composed of twelve
persons; consequently, a state statute authorizing the trial
by a jury of eight persons of a citizen of the United States,
charged, with crime, is void under the Fourteenth Amendment
declaring that no State shall make or enforce any law that

MAXWELL v. DOW.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

"shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the
United States."
I am also of opinion that the trial of the accused for the
crime charged against him by a jury of eight persons was not
consistent with the "due process of law "prescribed by the
Fourteenth Amendment. Referring to the words in the Fifth
Amendment, that "no person shall be deprived of life, liberty
or property- without due process of law," this court said in
M7iurray's Lessee v. H~oboken, 18 How. 272, 276-7: "The Constitution contains no description of those processes which it
was intended to allow or forbid. It does not even declare
what principles are to be applied to ascertain whether it be
due process. It was manifest that it was not left to the legislative power to enact any process which might be devised.
The article is a restraint on the legislative as well as on the
executive and judicial powers of the Government, and cannot
be so construed as to leave Congress free to make any process
'due process of law ' by its mere will. To what principles are
we to resort to ascertain whether this process enacted by Congress is due process? To this the answer must be twofold.
We must examine the Constitution itself to see whether this
process be in conflict with any of its provisions. If not found
to be so, we must look to those settled usages and modes of iroceeding existing in the common and statute law of England
before the emigration of our ancestors, and which- are shown
not to have been unsuited to their civil and political condition
by having been acted on by them after the settlement 'of this
country."
No one, I think, can produce any authority to show that
according to the "settled .usages and modes of proceeding
existing in the common and statute law of England before the
emigration of our ancestors," the trial of one accused of felony
otherwise ..han by a jury of twelve, or wholly without a jury,
was consistent with "due process of law." If the original
Constitution had not contained a specific prohibition of trials
for crime otherwise than by a jury, the requirement of due process of law in the Fifth Amendment would have stood in the
way of any act of Congress authorizing criminal trials in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

Federal courts in any mode except by a common law jury.
When therefore the Fourteenth Amendment forbade the deprivation by any State of life, liberty or property without due
'process of law, the intention was to prevent any State from
infringing the guarantees for the protection of life and liberty
that had already been guarded against infringement by the
National Government.
This interpretation of the Fourteenth Amendment finds support in some of the decisions of this court. In addition to
the clause forbidding the deprivation of property "without
due process of law," there is in the Fifth Amendment a clause
specifically declariig "nor sliall pfivate property be taken
for public use without just compensation." The Fourteenth
Amendment does not in terms refer to the taking of private
property for public use, yet we have held that the requirement
of "due process of law" in that amendment forbids the taking
of private property for public use without making or securing just compensation. Chicago, Burlington, &o.Railroad v.
Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, 233, 241; Nirorwood v. Baker, 172
U. S. 269, 277.
If then the "due process of law" required by the Fourteenth
Amendment does not allow a State to take private property
without just compensation, but does allow the life or liberty
of the citizen to be taken in a mode that is repugnant to the
settled usages and the modes of proceeding authorized at the
time the Constitution was adopted and which was expressly
forbidden in the National Bill of Rights, it would seem that
the protection of private property is of more consequence than
the protection of the life and liberty of the citizen.
If the court had not ruled otherwise, I should have thought
it indisputable that when by the Fourteenth Amendment it
-was declared that no State should make or enforce any law
abridging the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United
States, nor deprive any person of life, liberty or property without due process of law, the people of the United States put
upon the States the same restrictions that had been imposed
upon the National Government in respect as well of the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States as of

MAXWELL v. DOW.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

the protection of the fundamental rights of life, liberty and
property.
The decision to-day rendered is very far reaching ii its consequences. I take it no one doubts that the great men who
laid the foundations of our Government regarded the preservation of the privileges and immunities specified in the first
ten amendments as vital to the personal security of American
citizens. To say of any people that they do not enjoy those
privileges and immunities is to say that they do not enjoy
real freedom. But suppose a State should prohibit the free
exercise of religion; or abridge the freedom of speech or of
the press; or forbid its people from peaceably assembling to
petition the government for a redress of grievances; or authorize soldiers'in time of peace to be quartered in any house without the consent of the owner; or permit the persons, houses,
papers and effects of the citizen to be subjected to unreasonable searches and seizures under warrants not issued upon
probable cause nor supported by oath or affirmation, nor
'describing the place to be searched and the persons or things
to be seized; or allow a person to be twice put in jeopardy
of life or limb; or compel the accused to be a witness.against
himself; or deny to the accused the right to be informed of
the nature and cause of the accusation against him, to be confronted with the witnesses against him, to have compulsory
process for obtaining witnesses in his favor, or to have the
assistance of counsel; or require excessive bail; or inflict cruel
and unusual punishment. These or any of these things being
done by a State, this court, according to the reasoning and
legal effect of the opinion just delivered, would be bound to
say that the privileges and immunities specified were not privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States within
the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment, and that citizens
of the United States affected by the action of the State could
not invoke the protection of that amendment or of any other
provision of the National Constitution. Suppose the State of
Utah should amend its constitution and make the Mormon
religion the established religion of the State, to be supported
by taxation on all the people ol Utah. Could its right to do

OCTOBER TERMt, 1899.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

so, as far as the Constitution of the United States is concerned,
be gainsayed under the principles of the opinion just delivered?
If such an amendment were alleged to be invalid under the
National Constitution, could not the opinion herein be cited
as showing that the right to the free exercise of religion was
not a privilege of a "citizen of the United States" within the
meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment? Suppose, again, a
State should prescribe as a punishment for crime burning at
the stake or putting out the eyes of the accused. Would this
court have any alternative under the decision just rendered
but to say that the immunity from cruel and unusual punishments recognized in the Eighth Amendment as belonging to
every citizen of the United States was not an immunity of
a citizen within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment
and was not protected by that amendment against impairment by the State I The privileges and immunities specified
in the first ten amendments as belonging to the people of the
United States are equally protected by the Constitution. No
judicial tribunal has authority to say that some of them may
be abridged by the States while others may not be abridged.
If a State caV take from the citizen charged with crime the
right to be tried by a jury of twelve persons, it can, so far as
the Constitution of the United States is concerned, take away
the remaining privileges and immunities specified in the National Bill of Rights. There is no middle position, unless it
be assumed to be one of the functions of the judiciary by an
interpretation of the Constitution to mitigate or defeat what
its members may deem the erroneous or unwise action of the
people in adopting the Fourteenth Amendmeut The court
cannot properly say that the Constitution of the United States
does not protect the citizen when charged with crime in a
state court against trial otherwise than by a jury of twelve
persons, but does protect him against cruel and unusual punishment, or against being put twice in jeopardy of life or limb
for the same offence, or against being compelled to testify
against himself in a criminal prosecution, or in freedom of
speech or in the free exercise of religion. The right to be
tried when charged with crime by a jury of twelve persons

MAXWELL v. DOW.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, .

is placed by the Constitution upon the same basis as the other
rights specified in the first ten amendments. And while those
amendments originally limited only the powers of the National
Government in respect of the privileges and immunities specified therein, since the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment
those privileges and immunities are, in my opinion, also guarded
against infringement by the States.
If it be said that there need be no apprehension that any
State will strike down the guarantees of life and liberty which
are found in. the National Bill of Rights, the answer is that
the plaintiff in error is now in the penitentiary of Utah as
the result of a mode of trial that would not have been tolerated in England at the time American independence was
achieved, nor even now, and would have caused the rejection
of the Constitution by every one of the original States if it
had been sanctioned by any provision in that instrument when
it was laid before the people for acceptance or rejection.
Liberty, it has been well said, depends not so much upon the
absence of actual oppression as on the existence of constitutional checks upon the power to oppress. These checks should
not be destroyed or impaired by judicial decisions. On the
contrary, speaking by Mr. Justice Bradley, we have declared
in Boyd v. United States, 116 U.' S. 616, 636, that "it is the
duty of the courts to be watchful for the constitutional rights
of the citizen." If some of the guarantees of life, liberty and
property which at the time of the adoption of the National
Constitution were regarded as fundamental and as absolutely
essential to the enjoyment of freedom, have in the judgment
of some ceased to be of practical value, it is for the people of
the United States so to declare by an amendment of that
instrument. But, if I do not wholly misapprehend the scope
and legal effect of the present decision, the Constitution of
the United States does not stand in the way of any State
striking down guarantees of life and liberty that Englishspeaking people have for centuries regarded as vital to personal security, and which the men of the Revolutionary period
universally claimed as the birthright of freemen.
I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court.

