UNITED STATES v. MRS. GUE LIM.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. MRS. GUE LIM.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED. STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.
No. 128.

Submitted Januart 29,1900.-Delded February 26, 1900.

Under the act of July 5, 1884, c. 220, 23 Stat. 115, construed In connection
with the treaty with China of November 17, 1880, 22 Stat. 826, the wives
and minor children of Chinese merchants domiciled in this country, may
enter the United States without certificates.

DISTNCT appeals were taken direct to this court -from the
judgment of the District Court of the United States for the
District of Washington, Northern Division, in the *case of
the above defendant in error, Mrs. Gue Lim, and from the
judgment of the Western Division of that court in the cases
of Ah Tong, Yee Yuen and Ah Quong, under the fifth clause
of the fifth section of the act of 'March 3, 1891, c. 5 17, creating
the Circuit Court of Appeals, 26 Stat. 826, 828, because the
cases involve, among other questions, the constructioni of "the
treaty between the United States and China, entered into in
1880, 22 Stat. 826, article second, as affected by the third article
of the treaty of December 8, 1894, 28 Stat. 1210. The various
appeals were heard here as one case.
The facts in regard to Mrs. Gue Lim were agreed upon in
the court below, and it appears therefrom that she is the lawful wife of Fook Kee, a Chinese merchant engaged in buying
and selling merchandise in the city of Seattle and State of
Washington, under the firm name of Fook Kee & Company.
He was not engaged in the performance of any manual labor,
except such as was necessary in the conduct of his business as
such merchant, for over one year next preceding the date of
his last departure from the United States, which was in April,
1896, and was in all respects a Chinese merchant lawfully domiciled in the United States. He arrived at the port of Tacoma,
Washington, from China, accompanied by his wife, this being
her first arrival in the United States, and the collector of eus-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

toms, acting under general instructions from the Secretary of
day of May, 1897,
the Treasury, allowed her to land on thewithout the production of the certificate mentioned in section
sixth of the act of July 5, 1884. 23 Stat. 115, c. 220. Complaint was subsequently made to the District Court that she
was a Chinese laborer, and was found unlawfully in the United
Stafes, in the county of King, in the District of Washington,
on the 2d day of October, 1897, without having been registered
as a Chinese laborer, and withouf having in her- possession a
certificate of registration as such laborer, and without having
any other legal right or authority to be and remain in the
United States.
A warrant was issued by the District Court, upon which she
was arrested, and after hearing evidence on behalf of the plaintiff and defendant the court decided (83 Fed. Rep. 136) that she
was not a Chinese laborer, but the wife of a Chines6 merchant
.lawfully domiciled and doing business as a merchant, and was
not excluded by the laws of the United States from coming
to or remaining in the United States, and she was therefore
discharged from custody and the cause dismissed.
The other defendants in error had been admitted by the
collector of customs at Port Townsend, and were thereafter
adjudged by the United States commissioner, upon complaint
made before him, to be Chinese laborers unlawfully in the
United States, and the~commissioner thereupon ordered them
to be deported to China. They appealed from such decision,
and the United States District Court'for the District of Washington, Western Division, after hearing the evidence, decided
that the defendants were minor children of Chinese merchants,
and that they were lawfully entitled to be and remain in the
United States.
The facts were agreed upon in the court below, and they are
stated in the record as follows:
(1.) The defendants were born in China of parents lawfully
married, and had resided in that country up to the time they
came to the United States to live with their respective fathers,
and were still minors under the age of fifteen years.
(2.) The fathers of these boys were, and for a long time prior

UNITED STATES v. MRS. GVE LIM.
Opinion of the Court.

to the coming of the boys to this country, had been bona flde
Chinese merchants, lawfully residing and doing business in the
city-of Walla Walla, in the State of Washington, and had sent
for their sons to come from China to live with them in Walla
Walla, where they were residing with their fathers when arrested by a United States immigration officer.
(3.) The boys had never procured any certificate under
section sixth of the act of July 5, 1884, (supra,) but relied
entirely upon the status of their fathers as merchants here
to entitle them to come to this country, and upon that claim
had been admitted by the collector of customs at. Port
Townsend.

A judgment discharging the defendants having been entered,
the United States appealed to this court.
.7r.Aemistant Attorney General Hoyt for the appellant.
No appearance for the appellee.
MR. JUSTiE PE=OKAnx, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The question here arising in regard to the correctness of the
decision of the District Court in the case of the married woman
depends for its solution upon the construction to be given to
the sixth section of the act of Congress of 1884, c. 220, 23 Stat.
115, which is set forth in the margin.'
1 Szc. 6. That in order to the faithful execution of the provisions of this
act, every Chinese person, other than a laborer, who may be entitled by said
treaty or this act to come within the United States,. and who shall be about
to come to the United States, shall obtain the permission of and be identified
as so entitled by the Chinese government, or of such other foreign govern.
ment of which at the time such- Chinese person shall be a subject, in each
case to be evidenced by a certificate issued by such government, which
certificate shall be in English language, and shall show such permission,
with the name of the permitted person in his or her proper signature, and
which certificate shall state the individual, family and tribal name in full,
title or official rank, if any, the age, height and all physical peculiarities,
former and preeut occupation or profession, when and where and how long
pursued, and place of residence of the person to whom the certificate Is
issued, and that such person is entitled by this act to come within the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

That section must be construed in connection with the treaty
concluded between this country and China in November, 1880.
22 Stat. 826.
It is contended on the part of counsel for the Government
that by the subsequent treaty of March, 1894, 28 Stat. 1210,
the two Governments have agreed that the requirements of a
certificate as provi*ded for in the sixth section of the act of
Congress shall hpply .to all permitted Chinese subjects who
must, without exception, produce such certificates. Article
two of the treaty of 1880 and article three of the treaty of
1894 are set out in the margin.1
United- States. "If the person so applying for a certificate shall be a merchant, said certificate shall; In addition to above requirements, state the
nature, character and estimated value of the business carried on by him
prior to and at the time of his application as aforesaid. . . . The
certificate provided for in this hct and the identity of the person named
therein shall, before such person goes on board any vessel to proceed to the
United States, be vis6d by the indorsement of the diplomatic representatives
of the United States in the foreign country from which said certificate issues,
or of the consular representative of the United States at the port or place
from which the person named in the certificate is about to depart; and such
diplomatic repkeqentative or consular representative whose Indorsement Is
so required is hereby empowered, and it shall be his duty, before indorsing
such certificate as aforesaid, to examine into the truth of the statements set
forth in said certificate, and if he shit.&l find upon examination that said. or
any of the statements therein contained are .untrue it shall be his duty to
refuse to indorse the same. Such certificate vised as aforesaid shall be
prima facie evidence of the facts set forth therein, and shall be produced
to the collector of customs of the port in the district in the United States
at which the persons named therein shall arrive, and afterwards produced
to the proper authorities of the United States whenever lawfully demanded,
and shall be the sole evidence permissible on the part of the person so
producing the same to establish a right,of entry into the United States; but
said certiflcate may be controverted and the facts therein stated disproved
by the United States authorities.
I Treaty of 1880.
Article II.
Chinese subjects, whether proceeding to the United States as teachers,
students, merchants or from curiosity, together with their body and household servants, and Chinese laborers who are now in the United States, $hall
be allowed to go and come of their own free will and accord, and shall be
accorded all the rights, privileges, infinunities and exemptions which are
accorded to the citizens and subjects of the most favored nation.

UNITED STATES v: MRS. GUE LIM.
Opinion of the Court.

We do not think the treaty of 1894 alters the result flowing
from the treaty of 1880 and the act of 1884. The question is,
whether under the act of 1884, construed in connection with
the treaty of 1880, the wife of a Chinese merchant, domiciled
in this country, may enter the United States without a certificate, because she is the wife of such merchant.
Although the third article of the treaty of 1894 does speak
of certificates for Chinese subjects therein described, who
already enjoy the right to enter the country, the question
recurs whether the certificate of' the husband who himself
enjoys the right is not enough for the wife, the fact being
proved or admitted that she is such wife. Possibly the result
of the treaty of 1894 may be held to be, instead .of simply
prohibiting the pntrance of Chinese laborers, to'restrict the
right of entry to those classes who are specially named in the
third article of the treaty. But the question would still fremain
whether the wives of the members of the classes privileged to
ente?, were not entitled. themselves to enter by reason of the
right of the husband and without the certificate mentioned in
the act of 1884.
There has been some difference of opinion among the lower
courts as to the true construction to be given to the treaty and
the act of Congress. The judges in some cases have taken the-"
view that the wife and minor children of a Chinese*merchant,
who is himself entitled, under the second article of the treaty
of 1880 and section sixth of the act of 1884, to come within
and dwell in the United States, were entitled t5 come into
the country with him or after him as such wife and children
without the certificate prescribed in that section. Other judges
Treaty of 1894.
Article III.
The provisions of this convention shall not affect the right at present
enjoyed of Chinese subjects, being officials, teachers, students, merchants
or travellers for curiosity or pleasure, but not laborers, of coming to the
United States and residing thereiv. To entitle such Chinese subjects as are
above described to admission into the United States they may produce a certificate from their government or the government where they last resided
vls~d by the diplomatic or consular representative of the United States in
the country or port whence they depart.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

have held that they were not entitled to enter the country with.
out the production of the certificate mentioned in the act.
Those cases holding the right of the wife to enter without
a certificate are In 9'e Chung Toy Ho, 42 Fed. Rep. 398, in
the Circuit Court, District of Oregon, May, 1890, in which
case the opinion was delivered by Judge Deady; In re Lee
Yee Sing, 85 Fed. iRep. 635, decided in 1898 in the District
Court for the State of Washington; also in this case, United
States v. Gue Lim, 83 Fed. Rep. 136, District Court of Washington, 1897.
Those adverse to the doctrine are In re Ah Quan, 21 Fed.
Rep. 182, 186, decided in 1884 in the Circuit Court, District of
California; In re Ah -oy, 21 Fed. Rep. 785, in the same court,
September, 1884; In re Wo Tai Li, 48 Fed. Rep. 668, in the
District Court, Northern District'of California, August, 1888;
In re Lum Lin Ying, 59 Fed. Rep. 682, District Court of
Oregon, February, 1894; In re Li Foon, 80 Fed. Rep. 881,
Circuit Court, Southern District of New York, 1897.
Some of the latter cases do not involve the exact point now
before the court, but they are in the direction stated.
It is not necessary to review these cases in detail. It is
sufficient to say that we agree with the reasoning contained
in the opinion delivered by Judge Deady. In re Chung Toy
Ho, 42 Fed. Rep. supra. In our judgment the wife in this
case was entitled to come into the country without the certificate mentioned in the act of 1884.
The act of 1882, of which that of 1884 was an amendment,
was passed, as is stated in its title, "To execute certain treaty
9tipulations relating to Chinese," and therefore we must assume
that the body of the act has that purpose.
This court has already sustained the power of Congress to
provide for excluding or expelling Chinese, even in contravention of a treaty; also the power to intrust the final determination of the facts upon which the individual is to be expelled,
to an executive officer. -Fong T ue Ting v. United Stateq, 149
IU.S. 698; lWong Wing v. United States, 163 U. S" 228. But
it is not the power of Congress over the subject with which
we are now dealing. The question is, What did Congress

UNITED STATES v. MRS. GUE LIM.
Opinion of the Court.

mean by the act of 18841 Some light upon that question
can be derived from the treaty of 1880, which must be read
in connection with it. By article two of the treaty, Chinese
subjects proceeding to the United States, either as teachers,
students, merchants, or. from curiosity,, together with their
body and household servants, were to be allowed to go and
come of their own free will and accord, and were to be
"accorded.all the rights, privileges, immunities and exemptions which are accorded to the citizens and subjects of the
most favored nation.". It was for the avowed purpose of
carrying these treaty stipulations into effect .that the act of
1882, 22 Stat. 58, and the amended act of 1884. 23 Stat. 115,
were passed.
It is impossible to entertain the belief that the Congress of.
the United States, immediately after the conclusion of a treaty
between this country and the Chinese Empire, would, while
assuming to carry out its provisions, pass an act which violated
or unreasonably obstructed the obligation of any provision of
the treaty. As: was stated by Mr. Justice Harlan in delivering
the opinion of the court in Chew ileong v. United States, 112
U. S.536,539: "The court should be slow to assume that Colfgress intended to violate the stipulations of a treaty so recently
made with the government of another country.

.

.

.

Aside

from the duty imposed by the Constitution to respect treaty
stipulations when they become the subject of judicial proceedings, the court cannot be unmindful of the fact that the honor
of the government and the people of the United States is
involved in every inquiry whether rights secured. by such
stipulations shall be recognized and protected. And it would
be wanting in proper respect for the intelligence and patriotism of a codrdinate department of the government were it to
doubt, for a moment, that these considerations were present in
the minds of its members when the legislation in question was
enacted." We ought, therefore, to so consider the act, if it
can reasonably be done, as to further the execution and not to
violate the provisions of the treaty.
There is nothing in the act of 1884 which, in terms, enumerates and provides for the admission of particular classes of
VOL. CLXXVI-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

persons. It speaks in the sixth section of those who may be
entitled under the treaty or under the act to come within the
United States, but the act does not assume to enlarge the number or character of the classes specially named in the treaty as
entitled to admission. It is plain that in this case'the woman
could not obtain the certificate as a member of any of those
specially enumerated classes. She is neither an official, a
teacher, a student, a merchant nor a traveller for curiosity or
pleasure. She is simply the wife of a merchant, who is himself a member of one of the classes mentioned in the treaty as
entitled to admission. And yet it is not possible to presume
that the treaty, in omitting to name the wives of those who by
the second article were entitled to admission, meant that they
should be excluded; If not, then they would be entitled to
admission because they were such'wives, although not in terms
mentioned in the treaty.
Does the sixth section mean that in such case the wife must
obtain the certificate therein provided for? We think not.
Although the section provides that every Chinese person, other
than a laborer, who may be entitled by the treaty or by the
act to enter the United States must have a certificate, the contents whereof are therein stated, yet when we come to look at
the particulars which it directs shall be set forth in the certificate, we see that the section was not drawn with the view
of embracing the case of one who claims the right of admission
simply as the wife of a person entitled to enter and remain in
this country. She may have had no former, and may have no
present, occupation or profession within the meaning of the
section, and, of course, in that case, it cannot be stated when
and'where and how long it has been pursued.
The section assumes that the applicant for a certificate has
some occupation or profession which has been theretofore pursued at some place, which is not the case here.
Various other provisions in the section render it plain to our
minds that it was never intended to extend to the wives of
persons who were themselves entitled to entry. A certificate
that should only state that the person therein .identified Was
the wife of a member of the admitted class, and had no occu-

UNITED STATES v. MRS. GUE LIM.
Opinion of the Court.

pation or profession, it seems to us would not be a compliance
with the section, and if not, then it would not be possible to
comply with its provisions in'this case, and the consequence
would be that (if a certificate were necessary under the sixth
section,) the statute would exact as a condition of entrance into
the country, that which the person could not perform, although
otherwise entitled to enter.
While the literal construction of the section would require
a certificate, as therein stated, from'every Chinese person, other
than a laborer, who should come into the country, yet such a
construction leads to what we think an absurd result, for it
requires a certificate for a wife of a merchant, among others,
in regard to whom it would be impossible to give the particulars which the statute requires shall be stated in such certificate.
"Nothing is better settled," says the present Chief Justice,
in Lau Ow Bew v. United States, 144 U. S. 47, 59, "than that
statutes should receive a sensible construction, such as will
effectuate the legislative intention, and, if possible, so as to
avoid an unjust or an absurd conclusion."
The purpose of the sixth section, requiring the certificate,
was not to prevent the persons named in the second article of
the treaty from coming into the ceuntry, but to prevent Chinese laborers from entering under the guise of being one of the
classes permitted by the treaty. It is the coming of Chinese
laborers that the act is aimed against.
It was said in the opinion in the Lau Ow Bew case, in speaking of the provision that the sole evidence permissible should
be the certificate: "This rule of evidence was evidently prescribed by the amendment as a means of effectually preventing
the violation or evasion of the prohibition against the coming
of Chinese laborers. It was designed as a safeguard to prevent
the unlawful entry of such laborers, under the pretence that
they belong to the merchant class or to some other of the
admitted classes."
It was also held in that case that although the literal wording of the statute of 1884, section six, would require a certificate in the case of a merchant already domiciled in the United
States and who had left the country for temporary purposes,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

animo 9revertendi, yet its true and proper construction did not
include his case, and the general terms used in the act were
limited to those persons to whom Congress manifestly intended
to apply them, which would be those who were about to come
to the United States for the first time, and not t6 those Chinese merchants already domiciled in the United States who had
gone to China for temporary purposes only, with the intention
of returning. The case of Wan Shing v. United States, 140
U. S. 424, was referred to, and attention called to the fact that
the appellant therein was not a merchant but a laborer, who
had acquired no commercial domicil in this country, and was
clearly within the exception requiring him to procure and produce the certificate specified in the act. The ruling was approved, and the differences in the two cases pointed out by the
Chief Justice.
To hold that a certificate is required in this case is to decide
that the woman cannot come into the country at all, for it is
not possible for her to comply with the act, because she cannot
in any event procure the certificate even by returning to China.
She must come in as the wife of her domiciled husband or'not
at all. The act was never meant to. accomplish the result of
permanently excluding the wife under the circumstances of
this case, and we think that, properly and reasonably construed,
it does not do so. If we hold that she is entitled to come in as
the wife, because the true construction of the treaty and the
act permits it, there is no provision which makes the certificate
the only proof of the fact that she is such wife.
In the case of the minor children, the same-result must follow
as in that of the wife. All the reasons which favor the construction of the statute as exempting the wife from the necessity of procuring a certificate apply with equal force to the
case of minor children of a member or members of the admitted
classes. They come in by reason of their relationship to the
father, and whether they accompany or follow him, a certificate is not necessary in either case. When the fact is established to the satisfaction of the authorities that the person
claiming to enter, either as wife or minor child, is in fact the
wife or minor child of one of the members of a class mentioned

WALSH v. COLUMBUS &c. RAILROAD C0.

469

Statement of the Case.

in the treaty as entitled to enter, then that person is entitled to
admission without the certificate.
These views lead to the affirmance of the judgments, and
Afirmed.
they are accordingly

WALSH v. COLUMBUS, HOOKING VALLEY AND
ATHENS RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUIREME COURT Or THE -STATE OF OHIO.
No. 90. Submitted December 13, 1899. -Decided February 26,1900.
By an act of Congress passed in 1828, a large quantity of land was granted
to the State of Ohio for the construction of canals. The act provided
that such canals, "when completed or used, shall be, and forever remain,
public highways, for the use of the Government of the United States."
The grant was accepted by the State; but in 1894, the state legislature
authorized the abandonment of certain canals, which had been constructed under the act of Congress, and the leasing of the same to a railroad company.
Held, that there was reason to claim that the act of 1894 impaired the obligation of the previous contract between the State and the Federal Government, and that a Federal question was thereby raised.
Held, further, that in accepting the Congressional land grant of 1828, there
was no undertaking on the part of the State to maintain the canals as
such in perpetuity, and that the Government was only entitled to. their
free use as long as they were kept up as public highways, and that the
act of the legislature of Ohio, authorizing their abandonment as canals
and leasing them to a railway company, did no violence to the contract
clause of the Constitution.
Held further, that a private property owner was no party to the contract
between the State and the Federal Government, and stood in no position
to take advantage of a default of the State in respect to its contract.
His rights were entirely subsidiary to those of the Government, and if
the latter chose to acquiesce in the abandonment of the canals, he had
no right to complain.

was a petition filed in the Court of Common Pleas of
Franklin County, Ohio, by the plaintiff Walsh, to enjoin the
defendant railroad company from entering upon the property
of the Lancaster Lateral Canal Company, and upon plaintiff's
premises, and from constructing a railroad thereon, and for
THIS

4%'
6176 657J

