WHITMAN v.' OXFORD NATIONAL BANK.

559

Statement of the Case.

The plaintiffs in error purchased after the enactment of the
statute, and the record affords no presumptions of ignorance
or innocence. If plaintiffs had been attentive to the assessment of the land its gross undervaluation could not have escaped their notice. Besides, whether a party in a case has
been given or refused the benefit of the law of estoppel inJdgment aflbrmed.
volves no Federal question.

WHITMAN v. OXFORD NATIONAL BANK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIROUIT.
No. 2T. Argued March 8, 9, 1899. -Decided March 5, 1900.
The liability imposed upon stockholders in corporations by the provision in
the constitution of the State of Kansas that "dues from corporations
shall be secured by indtvidual liability of the stockholders to an additional amount equal to the stock owned by each stockholder, and such
other means as shall be provided by law; but such individual liabilities
shall not apply to railroad corporations, nor corporations for religious or
charitable purposes" and by the statutes of that State which are referred
to in the opinion of the court in this case, though statutory in origin, is
contractual in its nature; and an action on this liability, not being one
to enforce a peual statute of Kansas, but only to secure a private remedy,
can be maintained in any court of competent jurisdiction, whether Federal or state.

THIS was an action brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, by the
National Bajik of Oxford, a national banking association,
incorporated and established under the laws of the United
States, and doing business at Oxford in the State of Pennsylvania, against George L. Whitman, a citizen of the State of
New York, asserting his liability, under the provisions of the
constitution and laws of the State of Kansas, for a debt of
more than' $2000 due to the plaintiff from the Arkansas City
Investment Company, a corporation of the State of Kansas, in
which the defendant was a stockholder.

178 5
f76 61 l

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

The constitution of the State of Kansas of 1859 provided,
in article 12, section 2, as follows:
"Dues from corporations shall be secured by individual liability of the stockholders to an additional amount equal to
the stock owned by each stockholder; and such other means
as shall be provided by law; but such individual liabilities
shall not apply to railroad corporations, nor corporations forreligious or charitable purposes."
The General Statutes of 1868 of that State, chapter 23, contained the following provisions:
"Sxc. 32. If any execution shall have been issued against
the property or effects of a corporation, except a railway or
a religious or charitable corporation, and there cannot be
found any property whereon to levy such execution, then execution may be issued against aiiy of the stockholders, to an
extent equal in amount to the amount of stock by him or her
owned, together with any amount unpaid thereon; but no
execution shall issue against any stockholder, except upon an
order of the court in which the action, suit or other proceeding shall have been brought or instituted, made upon motion
in open court, after reasonable notice in writing to the person
or persons sought to be charged ; and, upon such motion, such
court may order execution to issue accordingly; or the plaintiff in the execution may proceed by action to charge the
stockholders with the amount of his judgment."
"SEc. 40 (as amended in 1883). Laws 1883, c. 46, p. 88. A
corporation is dissolved -first, by the expiration of the time
limited in its charter; second, by a judgment of dissolition rendered by a court of competent jurisdiction; but any such corporation shall be deemed to be dissolved for the purpose of
enabling any creditors of such corporation to prosecute suits
against the stockholders thereof to enforce their individual liability, if it be shown that such corporation has suspended business for more than one year, or that any corporation now so
suspended from business shall for three months after the passage of this act fail to resume its usual and ordinary business."
"SEc. 44. If any corporation, created under this or any general statute of this State, except railway or charitable or relig-

WHITMAN v. OXFORD NATIONAL BANK.

561

Statement of the Case.
ious corporations, be dissolved, leaving debts unpaid, suits may
be brought against any person or persons who were stockholders at the time of such dissolution, without joining the
corporation in such suit; and if judgment be rendered, and
execution satisfied, the defendant or defendants may sue all
who were stockholders at the time of dissolution, for the

recovery of the portion of such debt for which they were
liable, and the execution upon the judgment shall direct the
collection to be made from property of each stockholder, respectively; and if any number of stockholders (defendants in
the case) shall not have property enough to satisfy his or their
portion of the execution, then the amount of deficiency shall
be divided equally among all the remaining stockholders, and
collections made ccordingly, deducting from the amount a
sum in proportion to the amount of stock owned by the plaintiff at the time the company dissolved."
The complaint alleged, and the plaintiff at the trial introduced evidence of, the following facts: The Kansas corporation was duly f6rmed under the general laws of the State of
Kansas in 1886, for the purpose of a general banking and real
estate business; 'had its only place of business at Arkansas
City in that State; was not a railway, religious or charitable
corporation; and had a capital of $200,000, divided into 2000
shares of $100 each, of which the defendant, from the time of
the formation of the corporation, and ever after, owned one
half. In ]Recember, 1890, that corporation made a general
assignment for the benefit of its creditors, and from that time
wholly suspended business. About four months before its
failure, it indorsed and guaranteed for value two promissory
notes, together amounting to $4875, which were discounted
by the plaintiff. In 1895 the plaintiff brought an action to
recover the unpaid balance of those notes, in a district court
of the county of Cowley and State of Kansas, against the corporation, and, after its general appearance and subsequent
default; recovered judgment against it for the sum of $3449;
an execution thereon against the corporation was issued to
the sheriff of the county, who returned it wholly unsatisfied,
because he could not find any property on which to make 'a
VOL. CLXXVI-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

levy; and the corporation had in fact no assets of any
kind.
The defendant moved the Circuit Court of the United States
to direct a verdict in his favor, upon the ground that it had no
jurisdiction to enforce a statutory remedy of the State of Kansas. The court denied the motion, directed a verdict for the
plaintiff, overruled a motion for a new trial, and entered a
final judgment for the plaintiff. 76 Fed. Rep. 697. That
judgment -was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
51 U. S. App. 536. The defendant thereupon applied for
and obtained this writ of certiorari. 168 U. S. 710.
-'. William G. Ooate for Whitman. -Yr. Jo8e~p
Choate and .AIr. William G. Wilson were- on his brief.

H

.Mr. William B. lornblower and ,M-'. Eoward A. Taylor
for the Oxford Bank.
MR. JusTicn

BREw R,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
By section 1 of Article 12 of the constitution of Kansas a
certain definite liability is cast upon each stockholder in other
than railway, religious and charitable corporations. This liability is for the dues of the corporation and to an amount
equal to the stock owned by him. The word "dues " is one
of general significance, and includes all contractual obligations.
Whether broad enough to include liabilities for torts, either
before or after judgment, is not a question before us, and upon
it we express no opinion. The words, "shall be secured," are
not merely directory to the legislature to make provision for
such liability, but of themselves declare it. To this extent the
constitution is self-executing. Willis v. -fabon, 48 Minnesota,
140. The discretion of the legislature extends beyond this,
as indicated by the clause "and such other means as shall
be provided by law." A failure of the legislature to create
courts or prescribe modes of procedure may, it is true, make
ineffective this constitutional provision, but does not destroy
the liability; nor is it created by the act of. thae legislature

WHITMAN v. OXFORD NATIONAL BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

preicribing the mode of its enforcement. This is the obvious
meaning of the constitutional provision. "The simplest and
most obvious interpretation of a constitution, if in itself sensible, is the most likely to be that meant by the people in its
adoption." Lamar, Justice, in Lake County v. Rollins, 130
U. S. 662, 671.
But this constitutional provision does not stand alone. The
legislature of Kansas has acted on the subject-matter, and the
constitution and the statutes are to be taken together, as making one body of law; and it serves no good purpose to inquire
what rights and remedies a creditor of a corporation might
have or what liabilities would rest upon a stockholder if either
constitution or statutes stood alone and unaided by the other.
In section 32 of chapter 23 of the General Statutes of that
State, passed before the organization of the corporation referred to, the legislature prescribed the mode of enforcing this
constitutional liability, and if such were needed declared to
what extent it could be enforced. It may be either by motion
in a case in which judgment has been rendered against 'the
corporation and execution thereon returned unsatisfied, or by
a direct action by the plaintiff in such judgment. Neither
remedy can be made effectual in the courts-of Kansas against
a stockholder unless by due service of process he is brought
within the jurisdiction of such courts. Wilson v. Seligman,
144 U. S.41 ; Howell v. .Mangleadorf,33 Kansas, 194, 199.
Whatever else may be said about the remedy it is direct,
certain and available to every creditor of a corporation, and
leaves to the stockholders the adjustment between themselves
of their respective individual shares of the corporate obligations. In view of the present tendency to carry on business
through corporate instrumentalities and the freedom from
personal liability which attends ordinary corporate action, it
cannot be said that this limited additional remedy is open to
judicial condemnation.
The liability which by the constitution and statutes is thus
declared to rest upon the stockholder, though statutory in its
origin, is contractual in its nature. It would not be doubted
that if the stockholders in this corporation had formed a part-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

nership, the obligations of each partner to the others and to
creditors would be contractual, and determined by the general
common law in respect to partnerships. If Kansas had provided for-partnerships, with limited liability, and these parties,
complying with the provisions of the statute, had formed such
a partnership, it would also be true that their obligations to
one another and to creditors would be contractual, although
only in the statute was to be found the authority for the creation of such obligations. And it is none the less so when these
same stockholders organized a corporation under a law of
Kansas, which prescribed the nature of the obligations which
each thereby assumed to the others and to the creditors.
While the statute of Kansas permitted the forming of the corporation under certain conditions, the action of these parties
was purely voluntary. In other' word they entered into a
contract authorized by statute.
.FlasA v. Cornn, 109 U. S. 37'1, is much in point. In that
case a corporation was organized in the State of New York,
under an act of legislature, which contained this provision:
"SEC. 10. All the stockholders of every company incorporated under this act shall be severally individually liable to the
creditors of the company in which they are stockholders, to
an amount equal to the amount of stock held by them respectively, for all debts and contracts made by such company,
until the whole amount of capital stock fixed and limited by
such company shall have been paid in, and a certificate thereof
shall have been made and recorded as prescribed in the following section."
An action was brought in Florida against one of the stockholders, and on error to this court it was held that the stockholder was liable, the court saying (p. 377):
"We think the liability imposed by section 10 is a liability
arising upon contract. The stockholders of the company are
by that section made severally and individually liable, within
certain limits, to the creditors of the company for its debts and
contracts. Every one who becomes a member of the company
by subscribing to its stock assumes this liability, which continues until the capital stock is all paid up and a certificate of
that fact is made, published and recorded."

WHITMAN v. OXFORD NATIONAL BANK.

565

Opinion of the Court.
And again, after noticing the rulings of the Court of Appeals
of the State of New York (p. 379):
"If this were a case arising in the State of New York we
should therefore follow the construction put upon the statute
by the courts of that State. The circumstance that the case
comes here from the State of Florida should not leave the statute open to a different construction. It would be an anomaly
for this court to put one interpretation on the statute in a case
arising in New York, and a different interpretation in a case
arising in Florida. Our conclusion, therefore, is that this
action was not brought to enforce a liability in the nature of
a penalty.
"The right of the plaintiffs to sue upon this liability in any
court having jurisdiction of the subject-matter and the parties
is, therefore, clear. Dennick v. Railroad Co., 103 U. S. 11."
And finally, in reference to the objection that the action was
one at law against a single stockholder instead of in equity
against all (p. 380):
"But in this-case the statute makes every stockholder individually liable for the debts of the company for an amount
equal to the amount of his stock. This liability is fixed, and
does not depend on the liability of other stockholders. There
is no necessity for l ringing in other stockholders or creditors.
Any creditor who has recovered judgment against the company and sued out an execution thereon, which has been
returned unsatisfied, may sue any stockholder, and no other
creditor can. Such actions are maintained without objection
in the courts of New York, under section 10 of the statute
relied on in this case. Shtillngton, v. Hfowland, 53 N. Y. 371;
Jfeeks v. Suydam, 6: N. Y. 173; Handy v. Draper, 89 N. Y.
334; Rocky fountain Nat. Bank v. Bliss, 89 N. Y. 338."
In Richmond v. 1'rons, 121 U. S. 27, in which the questioAi
presented was whether the individual liability of a stockholder
in a national bank survived as against his administrator, it
was said (p. 55):
"Under that act the individual liability of the stockholders
is an essential element in the contract by which the stockholders became members of the corporation. It is voluntarily

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

entered into by subscribing for and accepting shares of stock.
Its obligation becomes a part of every contract, debt and
engagement of the bank itself, as much so as if they were
made directly by the stockholder instead of by the corporation.
There is nothing in the statute to indicate that the obligation
arising under these undertakings and promises should not have
the same force and effect, and be as binding in all respects, as
any other contracts of the individual stockholder."
In Concord ist National Bank v. Hawkins, 174 U. S.
364, 372, in which one national bank was sought to be charged
as stockholder in another national bank, was this declaration:
"In the present case it is sought to escape the force of these
decisions by the contention that the liability of the stockholder
in a national bank to respond to an assessment in case of insolvency is not contractual, but statutory."
"Undoubtedly, the obligation is declared by the statute to
attach to the ownership of the stock, and in that sense may be
said to be statutory. But as the ownership of the stock,
in most cases, arises from the voluntary -act of the stockholder, he must be regarded as having agreed or contracted
to be subject to the obligation."
Similar are the views entertained by the Supreme Court of
Kansas.
In Abey v. Dry Goods Co., 44 Kansas, 415, 418, we find
this statement:
"The nature of this liability is peculiar; it seems to have
been created for the exclusive benefit of corporate creditors;
the liability rests upon the stockholders of a corporation to
respond to the creditors, for an amount equal to the stock held
by each, and it has been held that the action to enforce this
liability can only be maintained by the creditors themselves,
in their own right and for their own benefit."
And again, in _Plumb v. Bank of Enter.pri8e, 48 Kansas,
484, 486:
"Under our constitution and statutes, the individual liability
stands as a sort of surety for the corporate liability, and creditors of the corporation are supposed to contract with reference
to the individual responsibility of the stockholder's."

WHITMAN v. OXFORD NATIONAL BANK.

567

Opinion of the Court.
In Ac enb ch v. Pomeroy Coal Co., 2 Kansas Ct. App. 357,
359, is this language:
"The liability of a stockholder in an insolvent corporation
is of the nature of a liability on contract, and survives against
the legal representatives of a deceased stockholder."
And while the word "statutory ' is sometimes found in the
opinions of that court as descriptive of the stockholder's liability, evidently the word is so used to indicate the origin rather
than the nature of the liability. Thus, in Howell v. .Manglesdorf,
33 Kansas, 194, it was said (p. 199):
"While the liability is statutory, it is one which arises upon
the contract of subscription to the capital stock of the corporation, and an action to enforce the same is transitory, and may
be brought in any court of general jurisdiction in the State
where personal service can be made upon the stockholder."
Obviously this recognizes the contractual nature of the
obligation as well as its statutory origin. Again, in Pierce
v. Security Company, 60 Kansas, 161, it was held that a
stockholder, sued by a jwdment creditor of the corporation,
might set off against tnat claim the indebtedness of the
corporation to him, accruing before he became liable as
stockholder, the court saying (p. 166):
"Where the statute creates a liability against stockholders
which is personal and several, and actionable by any creditor
against any stockholder, it is generally held that a stockholder
may in such a proceeding. brought against himself set off debts
due to him from the company."
. Thus, while the statutory origin of the obligation is asserted,
its contractual nature is recognized in that the right of set-off
is affirmed.
That an action upon this liability is not one to enforce a
penal statute of Kansas but only to secure a private remedy
is not open to question since the decision in Huntington v.
Attrill, 14:. U. S. 657.
And as this liability is one which is contractual in its nature,
it is also clear that an action therefor can be maintained in any
court of competent jurisdiction. Dennick v. Railroad Company, 103 U. S.11; Huntington v. Attrill, 146 U. S. 657.

OCTOBER TERI 1899.
Syllabus.

Similar views have been expressed by the highest courts of
several States in like actions based upon the same Kansas constitutional and statutory provisions.. Ferguson v. Sherman, 116
California, 169; Bell v. .Farwell, 176 Illinois, 489; Uaneock
-National Bank v. -Ellis, 172 Mass. 39; Western ifational
Bank v. Lawrence, 117 Michigan, 669; Guerney v. .. oore,
131 Missouri, 650. See also Paine v. Stewart, 33 Connecticut,
516; Cushing v. Perot,175 Penn. St. 66; Rhodes v. United
States NSational Bank, (U. S. Ct. Ap. 7th Cir.) 24 U. S. App.
607; Bank of .Hvora America v. Rindge, (U. S. Cir. Ct. S.
Dist. Cal.) 57 Fed. Rep. 279; M1c Vickar v. Jones, (Cir. Ct.
Dist. N. H.) 70 Fed. Rep. 754; .Aechanics' Savings Bank v.
.FidelityInsurance Company, (Cir. Ct. E. Dist. Penn.) 87 Fed.
Rep. 113; Dexter v. .Edmands, (Cir. Ct. Mass.) 89 Fed. Rep.
467; Brown v. Trail,(Cir. Ct. Dist. Md.) 89 Fed. Rep. 64:1.
We see no error in the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, and it is, therefore,
A~frmed.
MR. JusTioE PEcmA&m dissented.

THE BENITO ESTENGER.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 192. Argued January 11, 12,1900.-Decided March 5, 1900.

The general rule is that in time of war the citizens or subjects of the belligerents are enemies to each other without regard to individual sentiments or dispositions, and that political status determines the question
of enemy ownership.
By the law of prize, property engaged in any illegal intercourse with the
enemy is deemed enemy property, whether belonging to* an ally or a
citizen, as the illegal traffic stamps it with the hostile character and
attaches to it all the penal consequences.
Provisions are not, in general, deemed contraband; but they may become
so if destined for the army or navy of the enemy, or his ports of naval
or military equipment.
In dealing with a vessel asserted to be an enemy vessel, the fact of trade
with the enemy in supplies necessary for the enemy's forces is of decisive importance.

