OCTOBER TERM, 1899..
Syllabus.

subdivisions.

i

the 2fatter of the Mfayor, ce., 99 N. Y. 569;

Sweet v. Rechel, 159 U. S. 380, 400.

This act fulfils these requirements in that the state treasury
is the source of payment, and an appropriate mode is designated
for the ascertainment of compensation as to owners and those
holding liens and incumbrances. In providing for notice to
owners only, the act seems to contemplate that it will appear
in 'the progress of the proceedings to ascertain compensation
whether there are outstanding claims, and that such claimants
may thereupon come forward and be heard.
We need not discuss the sufficiency of the provision in this
respect, since we agree with the Court of Appeals, as has already
been indicated, that the railroad company occupies no position
entitling it to raise the question. The steps it had taken had
not culminated in the acquisiti6n of any property or vested
right; and no contract between it and the State was impaired,
nor was due process of law denied to it within the meaning of
the Constitution of the United States under the circumstances
Judgment afirmed.
disclosed on this record.

THORMANN v. FRAME.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE COUNTY OF WAUKEESA
STATE OF WISCONSIN.
No. 841.

Submitted January 22, 1900. -Decided

February 26, 1900.

The bare appointment of an executor or administrator of a deceased person
by the courts of one State cannot be held, on principle or authority, to
foreclose inquiry as to the domicil of the deceased in the courts of
another State.
The general rule is that administration may be granted in any State or
Territory where unadministered personal property of a deceased person
is found, or real property subject to the claim of any creditor of the
deceased.
The constitutional provision that full faith and credit sball be given in
each State to the judicial proceedings in other States, does nbt preclude
inquiry into the jurisdiction of the court, in which the judgment is
rendered, over the subject-matter or the parties affected by It, or into
the facts necessary to give such jurisdiction.

THORM NN v. FRAME.
Statement of the Case.

JosEPH Fabacher died March 3, 1897, in the city of New
Orleans, leaving a last will and testament dated October 29,
1896, in which he described himself as of Waukesha, Wisconsin,
where the will was executed and where he had a residence and
a considerable amount of personal property. His widow and
'ten of his, children were named as legatees and deviseesi On
March 27, 1897, A. J. Frame, appointed executor, presented
the will for.probate in the county court of Waukesha County,
Wisconsin, alleging that it had been duly executed under the
laws of Wisconsin, and that Joseph Fabacher was at the time
of his decease "an inhabitant Qf the said county of Waukesha."
Publication of the application was made according to law and
the matter set for hearing May ., 1897. On that day Antoinette Thormann, daughter of Fabacher by a prior marriage,
appeared and objected to the admission of the instrument to
probate, alleging herself to be, under the law of Louisiana, the
sole heir of the deceased, and also setting forth matters, which,
it was contended, would by the law of that State disqualify
the beneficiaries named in the will. from taking under it, and
-averring, as to Joseph Fabacher, that "continuously ever since
1843 up to and at the time of his death he,. the said deceased,
was domiciliated in the city of .New Orleans, -in the State of
Louisiana, and an inhabitant and resident- thereof, and that
this court has no jurisdiction in the probate of said alleged last
will and testament and in the settlement and distribution of
said estate of said de6eased."- She further charged that any
attempt on the part of Fabacher to acquire or create a domidil
at Waukesha was in fraud-of her rights; that the *ill was procured by undue influence; and that it was not duly executed
in the manner and form required by law. It was conceded thaf
Fabacher's adult children resided in New Orleans, but insisted
that the domicil of the minor children was in Wisconsin, and
a guardian ad litem was appointed as to them. Trial was had
in the county court, which held the will in all respects valid;
that at the time of his death and, some time prior thereto,
Joseph Fabacher was domiciled in the county of Waukesha,
State of Wisconsih; and that the will was entitled to probate.
The case was then cari'ied to the Circuit Court of Waukesha

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.

-

Counsel for Parties.

County and there tried before a jury, who returned a verdict sustaining the will and finding the domicil of Joseph Fabacher at
the time of his death, March 3, 1897, to have been at the city of
Waukesha, whereupon the circuit court made findings of fact
and conclusions of law and entered judgment admitting the
will to probate and affirming the judgment to that effect of the
county court. A large amount of testimony was introduced on
these trials, and among other things it appeared that on March
29, 1897, Antoinette Thormann petitioned the civil district
court for the parish of Orleans, Louisiana, to be appointed
administratrix of the succession of Joseph Fabacher, her father,
asserting that he "was at the time of his death and many years
before a citizen of Louisiana, domiciled and residing in the
city of New Orleans; that said deceased left property in this
city and within the jurisdiction of this honorable court," and
"that your petitioner is the sole surviving heir and legitimate
child of said deceased, issue of his marriage with petitioner's
mother.

.

.

2"

Letters of administration were granted by

the court April 30; 1897.
The iniventory stated the pioperty of deceased as "one marble tomb in lot situated in St. Jbseph cemetery, # 2, bearing
the inscription, 'Family of Joseph Fabacher;' also two (2) galvaniged iron sofas and five (5)vases, valued by said appraisers at
the sum of thirty-five hundred dollars ($3500)." An attempt
was-made to inventory some household effects, which, however,
were -elaimed as the property of one of the sons.
Fiom the judgment of the Circuit Court of Waukesha County
an appeal was taken to-the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, the
judgment affirmed; and the record remanded to the Circuit
Court. 102 Wisconsin, 653. A writ of error having been sued
out from this court, motions to dismiss or affirm were submitted.
iX. T.E.Ryan, Mr. Charles .Buck and Xfr. D. S. Tullar
for the motion.
.&. William A. .Aaury and _Yr. E. Roward .cCaleb
opposing.

THORMAN

v. FRAME.

Opinion of the Court.

M9. CHIEF JUSTIGE rUlULE, after making the above statement

of the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
The contention is that the issuing of letters of administration to Mrs. Thormann by the civil district court of the parish
of Orleans was an adjudication that Fabacheri vas domiciled in
that parish at the time of his death; that Mrs. Thormann .was
sole surviving heir; that he died intestate; that this adjudication was in all these respects conclusive against the world;.
and that the Wisconsin courts in admitting the will to probate
did not give to the Louisiana proceedings that full faith and
credit to which they were entitled under the Constitution and
laws of the United States, and, therefore, denied a right secured
thereby.
But it is objected that no such right, was specially set up
or claimed in the county and circuit courts, and this would
appear to have been so. The Louisiana record was not pleaded,
and seems to have been offered and admitted in evidence as
tending to throw light on the question of domicil, and not
as concluding it. Mrs. Thormann contested that question on
the merits, and also denied the validity of the will in respect
of its execution, and because of undue influence. As the
Supreme Court was reviewing the decision below for qrrors
committed there, it would ordinarily follow that error could
not be predicated on the deprivation of a right which had not
been asserted, and perhaps might properly be held to have
been waived.
However, while we think that on this record there was color
for the motion to dismiss, we shall decline to sustain that motion inasimuch as the Supreme Court in its opinion considered
the particular question here presented, but will dispose of the
case on the motion to affirm as the ruling of that court, so far
as open to our examination, is so obviously correct, under the
circumstances, that further argument is unnecessary.
The question before us is whether the Supreme Court deprived Mrs. Thormann of a right secured to her by the Constitution and laws of the United States in holding that her
appointment, as administratrix of the succession of" Joseph
VoL. cLxxvi-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion'of the Court.

Fabacher was not a conclusive adjudication that Fabacher's
domicil was at the time of his death in the parish of Orleans,
Louisiana. The court said: "The record of the Louisiana court
in evidence merely shows that the contestant was, after appropriate proceedings, appointed administratrix of the succession
of the deceased, and that the inventory of the estate there presented consisted of the tomb, etc. There was no attempt in
that court to adjudicate as to the property situated in Wiscofisin nor as to the Alomicil of the deceased. That court, it
inay be conceded, had jurisdiction as to any tangible property
actually located in the State.

.

.

.

Certainly there was no

adjudication in the Louisiana court which precluded the county
court of Waukesha County from taking jurisdiction and admitting the will to probate and administering so much of the
estate as was actually located in Wisconsin, and this includes
the bonds, mortgages and evidences of debt deposited in the
Waukesha bank with the president thereof, who is executor of
the will."
Fabacher's property in Wisconsin consisted of movables and
immovables. His will was executed in that State in accordance with its laws, and was open to no objection for want of
testamentary capacity. But Mrs. Thormann resisted the probate on the ground that the will was invalid by the law of
Louisiana, and that that law must be applied in Wisconsin,
because Louisiana was, and Wisconsin was not, the domicil
of the deceased. We need not go into the rules and their
exceptions governing such cases, for the issue as to Fabacher's
domicil, raised by Mrs. Thormann in the Wisconsin proceedings to which she 'made herself a party, was regularly tried
at large and determined against her. Nevertheless she contended ,in
the state Supreme Court that the judgment below
was erroneous as matter of law, because the question of domicil bad been absolutely concluded by her appointment in Louisiana.
Yet the proceeding in Louisiana, instituted, it may be remarked, after the will was presented for probate in Wisconsin,
amounted to no more than an exparte application for letters
of administration and a grant thereof.. Doubtless the desti-

THOR AXN v. FRAME.
Opinion of the Court.

nation of the tomb and accompanying seats and Vases was
thereby fixed, but not that of property in Wisconsin; nor can
the bare appointment be held, on principle or authority, to
foreclose inquiry into the fact of domicil in the courts of
another sovereignty.
The technical distinction between an original and an ancillary administration is unimportant here.
Whatever the effect of the appointment, it must be as a
judgment and operate by way of estoppel. Now a judgment
in rem binds only the property within the, control of the court
which rendered it; and a judgment in er8onam binds only
the parties to that judgment and those in privity with them.
This appointment cannot be treated as a judgment in er8onam, and as a judgment in rem it merely determined the
right to administer the property within the jurisdiction,
whether considered as directly operating on the particular
things seized, or the, general status of assets there situated.
In this country the generid rule is, "that administration
may be granted in any State or Territory where unadministered personal property of a deceased person is found, or real
property subject to the claim of any creditor of the deceased."
1 Woerner on Administration, (2d ed.) ยง 204.
As to successions, the law of Louisiana provides as follows
(Code of Practice, 1899):
"Art. 929. The place of the opening of successions is fixed
as follows:
"In the parish where the deceased resided, if he had a domicil or fixed place of residence in this State.
"In the parish where the deceased owned immovable property, if he had neither domicil or residence in this State, or in
the parish in which it appears by the inventory, his principal
effects are, . . . if he have effects in different parishes.
"In the parish in which the deceased has died, if he had no
fixed residence, nor any immovable effects within this State,
at the time of his death."
The order of appointment by the Louisiana court did not
make, nor did the letters themselves recite, any finding as to
Fabacher's last domicil, and as he died in the parish of

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion" of the Court.

Orleans, and owned, as contended, immovable property, and
effects, there, such a finding was wholly unnecessary to jurisdiction, and is not to be presumed.
In Do 2fora v. Concha, 29 Ch. Div. 268, it was held that the
decree of a probate court was not conclusive in rem as to domicil, although the fact was found therein, because it did not
appear that the decree was necessarily based on that finding;
and it was doubted whether the findings on which judgments
in rem are based are in all cases conclusive against the world.
The decision was affirmed in the House of Lords. 11 App.
Cas. 541. The case is a leading and instructive one, was ably
argued, and has been repeatedly followed since the judgment
was pronounced.
In Brigham v. Fayerweather, 140 M ass. 411, conclusive
effect to judgments in probate proceedings in respect of their
grounds was denied altogether.
Again, it is thoroughly settled that the constitutional provision that full faith and credit shill be given in each State
to the judicial proceedings of other States, does -not preclude
inquiry into the jurisdiction of the court in which the judgment is rendered, over the subject-matter, or the parties
affected: by it, oil into the facts necessary to give such jurisdiction.

Tomp8on, v. WT7itman, 18 Wall. 457; Cole v. Cunning-

ham, 133 U. S. 107; Grover and Baker Sewing Machme Co.
v. 1?adclffe, 137 U. S. 287; Simmons v. Saul, 138 U. S. 439;
Reynolds v. Stockton,'140 U. S. 254; Cooper v. Newell, 173
U. S. 555.
The point before us is a narrow one, but in any aspect in
which it may be considered we are unable to assent to the
view that the Supreme Court of Wisconsin was bound to treat
the proceeding in Louisiana as conclusively determining the
question of domicil; and unless it was so bound its decision
deprived plaintiff in error of no right secured to her by the
Constitution and laws of the United States.
Judgment afflrmed.

