CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.

LOUISIANA v. TEXAS.
ORIGINAL.
No. 6. Submitted October 24, 1899. - Decided Jantary 1 ,1900.
The bill of complaint on the part of Louisiana against Texas, alleged that
the State of Texas had granted to its Governor and its Health Officer
extensive powers over the establishment and maintenance of quarantines
over infectious or contagious diseases ; that this power had been exercised in a way and with a purpose to-build up and benefit the commerce
of cities in Texas which were rivals of New Orleans; and it prayed for
a decree that "1neither the State of Texas, nor her Governor, nor her
Health Officer, have the right, under the cover of an exercise of police
or quarantine powers, to declare and enforce against. interstate commerce, between the State of Louisiana, or any part thereof, and the
State of Texas, an absolute embargo, prohibiting the movement and'
conduct of said commerce, or to make, declare and enforce against
places infected with yellow fever or other infectious diseases in the
State of Louisiana discriminative quarantine rules or regdlations, affecting interstate commerce between the State of Louisiana, or any part
thereof, and the State of Texas, different from and more burdensome
than the quarantine rules and regulations affecting Interstate or foreign
commerce between the State 6f 'Texas and other States and countries
ihfecred with yellow fever and other infectious diseases;" and the bill
asked for an Injunction, restraining the Texas officials from enforcing
the Texas laws in the manner in which they were enforced. Held:
VOL. OLXXV-1

1

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the .Case.

(1) That in order to maintain jurisdiction of the billit must appear that
the controversy to be determined was a controversy arising directly between the State of Louisiana and the State of Texas, and
not a controversy in vindication of the grievances of particular
Individuals;
(2) That the gravamen of this bill was not a special and peculiar injury,
such as would sustain an action by a private person, but that the
State of Louisiana presented herself In the attitude of parens
patria, trustee, guardian or reprdsbntative of all her citizens;
(3) That the bill does not set up facts which show that the State of
Texas has so authorized or confirmed the alleged action of her
health officer as to make it her own, or from which it necessarily
follows that the two States are in controversy within the meaning
of the Constitution;
(4) That the court was unable to hold that the bill could be maintained
as presenting a case of controversy between a State and citizens
of another State;
(5) That the bill could not be maintained as against the health officer
alone, on the theory that his conduct was in violation of or in excess of a valid law of the State.
MR. JusTIcE WHITE concurred in the result.. MR. JUSC HARLAN concurred In the result, but dissented from some of the propositions contained in the opinion of the court: as did also AIR. JUSTIcE BROWN.
THE State of Louisiana by her Governor applied to this
court for leave to file a bill of complaint against the State of
Texas, her Governor and her health officer. Argument was
had on objections to granting leave, but it appearing to the
court the better course in this instance, leave was granted,
and the bill filed, Whereupon defendants demurred, and the
cause was submitted on the oral argument already "had and
printed briefs.
. The bill alleged: "That the city of New Orleans,
one of
the great commercial cities of this republic, and the second
export city of this continent, containing about two hundred
and seventy-five thousand inhabitants, many of whom are'
largely engaged in interstate commerce with the inhabitants
of the State of Texas, is situated within the territory of your
orator; that said city contains nearly one fourth of all the
inhabitants of your orator, and the assessed values of her
property are more than one half the assessed values of the
whole State, and she contributes by taxes and licenses more
than five eighths of your orator's revenue.

LOUISIANA v. TEXAS.
Statement of the Case.

"That two lines of railroad, the Southern Pacific and the
Texas and Pacific, run directly from the city of New Orleans
through the States of Louisiana and Texas, and into the States
and Territories -of the United States and of Mexico, beyond
the State of Texas, with the'inhabitants of which States and
Territories the citizens of New Orleans are also engaged in
interstate and foreign commerce, such commerce largely following the lines of said railroads and their many connections.
"That the State of Texas, by her Revised Civil Statutes,
adopted at the regular session of the Twenty-fourth Legislature, held in the year 1895, being Title XCII thereof, has
granted to her Governor and her health officer extensive
powers over the establishment and maifitenance of quarantines against infectious or contagious diseases, with authority
to make rules and regulations for the detention of vessels, persons and propQrty coming into the State from places infected,
or deemed to be infected,_with such diseases.
"That Joseph D. Sayers, a citizen of the State of Texas, is
now, and has been for some time past, Governor of said.State.
"That William F. Blunt, a citizen of the State of Texas, is
now, and has been for some time past, the state health officer
of the State of Texas.
"That the ports'of said State, situated on the Gulf coast,
are-engaged in commerce with the ports of Mexico, Central
and South America and Cuba, known to be permanently
infected with yellow fever said commerce being largely competitive with similar commerce coming to the port of New
Orleans.
"That on the 1st day of March, 1899, Joseph D. Sayers,
Governor of the State of Texas, under the provisions of the
said laws, issued his proclamation establishing quarantine on
the Gulf coast and Rio Grande border against all places, persons or things coming from places infected by yellow fever,
etc., a copy of which proclamation is hereto annexed and
made part of this bill and marked Exhibit IA.'
. "That the rules and regulations established in said quarantine proclamation permit trade and commerce between such
infected ports and the State of Texas, and provide for the

. OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

fumigation and reasonable detention of ships and cargoes
from.infected ports.
"That on or about the 31st day of August, 1899, a case of
yellow fever was officially declared to exist in the city of
New Orleans, in a part of the city several miles away from
the commercial part thereof, and from that time to this several other sporadic cases have been reported in similar parts
of the city.
"That as soon as said first case was reported the said
William F. Blunt, Health Officer of the State of Texas,. claiming to act under the provisions of Article 432d: of the Revised
Civil Statutes, under the pretence of establishing a quarantine, placed an embargo on all interstate commerce between
the city of New Orleans and the State of Texas, absolutely
prohibiting all common carriers entering the State of Texas
from bringing into the State any freight or passengers or
even the mails of the United States, coming from the city of
New Orleans, and to enforce these orders he immediately
placed, and now maintains, armed guards, acting under the'
authority of the State of Texas, on all the lines of travel from
the State of Louisiana into' the State of Tekas, with instructions to.enforce the embargo declared by him vi et armi8, "
which instructions these armed guards are qarrying out to
the letter; that about six days later he -modified his order so
as to permit the Government of the United States to carry
and deliver the mails; and also modified his order so as to
permit persons and their baggage to enter the State of-Texas,
after ten days' detention at the quarantine detention camps,
established by him, and after fumigation of their baggage;
but that he now maintains, and announces his intention to
maintain indefinitely, his absolute prohibition of all interstate
commerce between the city of New Orleans and the State of
Texas; that he has refused to permit the introduction of
sulphuric acid in iron drums, unpacked hardware, machinery
and other articles coming from localities in the city of New
Orleans, far removed from the places where the sporadic cases
of fever have occurred, and which by their nature are concededly incapable of conveying infedtion; that he had estab-

LOUISIANA v. TEXAS.
Statement of the Case.

lished no system of classification or inspection of the articles
of interstate commerce, coming from tfie city of New Orleans,
to determine whether they are, or may be, infected, or whether
they are capable, or not, of 6onveying infection, no period of
detention for such articles, no place or method of disinfection
thereof; his only method being absolute and unconditional
prohibition of such interstate commerce; that it is a notorious
fact, and well known to said Blunt, that all of the interstate
commerce between New Orleans and Texas is carried on by
railroads, and none by water communication between the port
of New Orleans and the Texas ports, and that the effect of
his orders is to destroy all such commerce, to take away the
trade of the merchants and business men of the city of New
Orleans, and to transfer that trade to rival business cities in
the State of Texas.
"That while Joseph D. Sayers, Governor of the State of
Texas, has issued no formal proclamation of quarantine, as
provided by law, to wit, Art. 4324 of the Revised Civil Stat"utes, defining the rules and regulations of such quarantine
so declared by said Blunt, your orator charges that the rules
and regulations established by said Blunt have the full force
of law until modified or changed by the proclamation of the
Governor, and that the Governor knows all these facts and
approves and adopts the same, and permits these rules and
regulations to stand and to be executed in full force and effect
as established by said Blunt.
"Now your orator -recognizes the right and power of the
State of Texas and the public officials thereof to take prudent
and reasonable measures to protect the people of said State
from infection, to establish quarantine and reasonable inspection laws, but your orator denies that said State, or its officials, acting under its laws, under the cover of exercising its
police powers, can prohibit or so burden interstate commerce
as to make such commerce impossible.
"Your orator avers that it is a recognized and acknowledged fact by all the sanitarians and health officials of the
various States exposed to infection by yellow fever and by
the health officials of the United States, and by all scientific

OCTOBEI

TERM, 1899.

Statement of the .Case.

students of infection and sanitation, that commerce can be
conducted between infected and non-infected points, with
small inconvenience and without any danger of infection, by
classifying the articles of dommerce and by pursuing certain
well-recognized rules and precautions with reference to the
articles and vehicles of commerce.
"That after the yellow fever outbreak of 1897 a quarantine
convention was held in Mobile, Ala., and, on the advice of that
convention, a conference of the health officials of Virginia,
South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Missouri and the United States Marine Hospital Service met at
Atlanta, Ga., and formulated such regulations which were
adopted by the Boards of Health of all said States, and, as
subsequently revised, are now in full force and effect between
the said States; that additional experience having been
-gained by the reappearance of yellow fever in the fall of
1898, a revising conference was held in the city of lNew
Orleans on February 9, 1899, at which conference the Atlanta
regulations were in some respects modified. A copy of the"
said regulations, original and 'as modified, are hereto annexed
and made part of this bill and marked Exhibit 'B.'
"Your orator avers that said William F. Blunt, or his
predecessor in office, was health officer of the State oT"Texas
at the time these conferences were held, that he and his
predecessor in office refused or neglected to attend them in
person or by representative, and he has continually refused to
adopt the Atlanta regulations, or any of them, or any regulations similar to them, and insists, as his predecessor in office
insisted, upon being a law to himself, and upon using no
means of dealing with yellow fever infection in the city of
New Orleans, or elsewhere in the State of Louisiana, real or
imaginary,, except an absolute embargo upon interstate commerce to be established at his pleasure and to last as Yong as
he chooses to maintain it.
"That in pursuance of this policy, in the year 1897, his
predecessor in office established a similar embargo on interstate commerce between New Orleans and other points in
Louisiana, supposed by him to be infected, and the State of

LOUISIANA v. TEXAS.
Statement of the Casei

Texas, on the 10th day of September; and refused to remove
or to modify said embargo until the -day
of December,
1897, during which period he even refused to permit railroad
cars that had been in the city of New Orleans to enter or even
pass through the Stato of Texas, on their way to the countries,
States and Territories beyond.
"That in pursuance of the same policy, in the year 1898,
the said William F. Blunt, health officer, and the Governor
of the State of Texas, established a similar embargo on all
interstate commerce between the State of Louisiana and the
State of Texas, on the 18th day of September, and refused to
remove or modify the same until the 1st day of November.
"That in pursuance of the same policy, the said William
F. Blunt, because a single case of yellow fever was declared
in the city of New Orleans, did on May 30, 1899, establish
a similar embargo on interstate commerce between the city
of New Orleans and the State of Texas, which he refused to
modify or to remove until June 0, 1899, and then only under
great pressure, although he was advised on June 2, 1899, by
the representatives of the health authorities of the States of
Alabama and Mississippi, of the United States Marine Hospital Service, and of the Louisiana state board of health, who
had been for some days in the city of New Orleans, making a
personal inspection of her sanitary and health conditions, that
they deemed it 'unnecessary and unwise for any State or city
to quarantine against New Orleans under present conditions.!
"Your orator avers that the State of Texas, her Governor
and her health officer, as shown by the rules and regulations
established by them in the proclamation aforesaid for the
quarantine on the Gulf coast, admit the truthfulness of the
claim of your orator that commerce can be carried on with
infected places and ports, under reasonable rules and regulations as to inspection, fumigation and detention, and admit
that there are articles of commerce incapable of conveying
infection, and actually permit such commerce in all articles to
be so carried on to the advantage and benefit of the commerce
of the ports of Texas and her merchants engaged in commerce
in said ports.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

"Your orator avers that the 'effect of the embargoes imposed by the State of Texas upon the commerce of the city
of New Orleans with Texas is to build up and benefit the
commerce of the city of Galveston, in Texas, and the commerce of other cities in Texas, all of which are commercial
rivals of the city of New Orleans for the large commerce of
the State of Texas and the adjoining States and Territories.
"That prior to the embargoes aforesaid of the years 1897
and 1898 the city of New Orleans was the greatest cotton
exporting port of the United States, and a very large portion
of .the cotton giown in Texas was exported through the port
of New Orleans; for instance, for the season of 1894-5 more
than 31 per cent thereof; for the season 1895-6 more than
30 per cent 'thereof; for the season 1896-7, 25 per cent
thereof.
"That as consequence of the two trade embargoes aforesaid the percentage of the Texas coton crop exported through
the port of New Orleans for the season of 189.7-8 was dnly
19 per cent; and for the season of 1898-9 was only 15 per
cent; and for the season of 1698-9, ending September- 1,
1899, the city of Galveston handled more export cotton than
the city of New Orleans.
"That the effect of said embargoes is all the more disastrous to the commerce of your orator, and of her cities and
towns, because declared and made operative during the
months of September, October, November and the earry part
of December, the period of the greatest activity and the largest movement of commerce among the States of the South,
and between the State of Louisiana, the city of New Orleans
and the State of Texas.
"Now your orator avers that in view of the unreasonable,
harsh, prohibitive and discriminating character of the pretended quarantines, declared and maintained by the State of
Texas and her health officer, against the city of New Orleans
and other localities in the State of Louisiana, is nothing less
than a commercial war declared against your orator, her ports,
cities and citizens; not for the bona&e purpose of protecting
the health of the State of Texas, but for the purpose of in-

LOUISIAN-A v. TEXAS.
Statement of the Case.

creasing the trade and commerce of the State of Texas and
of her ports, cities and citizens, to the great damage and injury
of your orator and her citizens ; that such embargoes on interstate commerce injure and impoverish your orator's citizens,
reduce the value of her. taxable property, diminish her revenues, retard immigration, reduce the value of her public
lands, and deprive. her citizens of their rights and privileges
as citizens of the United States.
Your orator avers -that the embargo upon interstate commerce between the city of New Orleans, in the State of*
Louisiana, and the State of Texas, established by said ]3lunt
on or about the first day of September, 1899, and now maintained by him and the. other officials of the State of Texas,
will be oontinued by them *for an indefinite period, to the
great damage and injury of your orator's ports, commerce and
revenues, and to the commerce of her citizens and to the rights
of her citizens under the Constitution of the. United States,
Ufbless they be enjoined and restrained by order of this court.
"Your orator. avers .that, from the past conduct of the
State' of Texas, and of her Governors and health officers,
your orator is. justified in averring and charging, and does
aver and charge, that it is the fixed purpose and intention of
'the said State, and of her Governors and health officers,
whenever in the future any case of yellow fever, or other
infectious disease, occurs in any parish, city or town within
your orator's borders, to immediately declare, set up and
maintain an absolute .prohibition of interstate commerce
between said supposed infected parish, city or town, and the
State of Texas, and to keep the same in force during the
pleasure of such officials, or to make and establish discriminative rules and regulations covering quarantines on such
interstate commerce, different frort and more burdensome
than the rules and regulations concerning quarantines on
interstate commerce with other States and foreign commerce
with countries also infected with yellow fever, or other in:
fectious diseases, and thereby to injure and oppress your
orator and her citizens.
"Now your 'orator avers that the absolute prohibition

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

against, the movement and operation of interstate qommerce
between the city of iNew Orleans and the inhabitants thereof,
and the State of Texas and the inhabitants thereof, established
by said William F. "Blunt,health officer of the State of Texas
and now maintained and enforced by him, the Governor and
the other officials of the State of Texas, is in direct contravention of the provisions of the Constitution of the United States,
and particularly of that clause thereof which grants to the
Congress power to regulate. commerce with foreign nations,
among the several States, and with the -Indian tribes, and is
null, void and of no effect, and the continuance thereof oughtto be restrained by the order of this honorable court.
"Your orator further avers that the various cities, counties
and towns in the State of Texas have authority, under the
statutes aforesaid, to establish quarantines, but all such quarantines are by statute subordinate to, subjeet to and regulated
by the rules and regulations prescribed by the Governor and
the state health officer, and that, therefore, all such quatantines are dirigible and controllable by the Governor and the
health officer of Texas.
"Your orator is informed and believes and so charges that
it is the intention of certain counties, cities and towns along
the lines of the railroads aforesaid, in case your honors should
restrain the operation of the embargo established as aforesaid
by XWliam F. Blunt, state health officer, to severally establish the same embtargo on their own account, and to prevent
the passage of trains on said railroads carrying interstate
commetce from the city of New Orleans through them to
other parts of the State of Texas and to other'States, and
to so hinder, obstruct and delay the transportation of said
commerce along the lines of railroad running through their
limits at to render its conduct impossible; that in cause it
should be considered that the public authorities of such counties, towns and cities are not personally bound by any order
your honors may issue in this cause, and in case they. should.
attempt to carry out anysuch illegal plan, your orator reserves
the right hereafter to make such officials parties to this bill,
so as to subject them to the control of the court,"

LOUISIAIA v. TEXAS.
Statement of the Case.

The bill then prayed for answers under oath; that the court
decree "that neither the State of Texas, nor her Governor, nor
her hrealth officbr, have the right, under the cover of an exercise of police or quarantine powers, to declare and enforce
against interstate commerce, between the State of Louisiana,
or any part thereof, and the State of Texas, an absolute
embargo, prohibiting the mcvement and conduct of
said commerce, or to. make, declare atd enforce against places infected
with yellow fever, or other infectious diseases, in the State
of Louisiana, discriminative quarantine rules and'regulations
affecting interstate commerce between the State of Louisiana,
or any part thereof, and the State of Texas, different from
and more burdensome than the quarantine rules and regulations affectfig. interstate or foreign commerce between the
* State of Texas and other States and countries infected with
yellow fever, or other infectious diseases, and that-the embargo
and prohibition upon interstate commerce between the city
of Nev Orleans and the State of Texas, declared by -WilliamF.
Bln!t, 'health officer of the State of Texas, on or about the
1st day of Sepltember, 1899, and now maintained and enforced
by the State of Texas, under the guise of a quarantine against
yellow fever, is'contrary to the Constitution of the United
States, null, void and of no effect and validity ;" that a preliminary injunction be issued "prohibiting, enjoining and
restraining the State of Texas, and all of her officers and
public officials, and prohibiting, enjoining and restraining
Joseph D. Sayers, Governor of the State of Texas, and William F. Blunt, health officer of the State of Texas, their successors in office, and all of their subordinates, assistants, agents
and employ~s, from establishing, maintaining and enforcing, or
attempting to establish, maintain and-enforce, under the guise
of a quarantine against yellow fever, any em.bargo or absolute
prohibition upon interstate commerce between the State of
Louisiana, or any part thereof, and the State of Texas, or
from establishing, maintaining and enforcing, or attempting
to establish, maintain and enforce against interstate commnerce between the State of Louisiana, or any part thereof,
and, the State of Texas, discriminative and burdensome quar-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

antine regulations other and different from the regulations
established by such authorities against foreign and interstate
comme~ce between the State of Texas and other countries and
States infected with yellow fever, or other infectious diseases,
and particularly enjoining, prohibiting and restraining them,
and each of them, from maintaining or enforcing, directly or
indirectly, the prohibitory embargo on interstate commerce
established against the city of New Orleans on or about the
first day of September, 1899, under the guise and pretence of
a quarantine regulation;" and that such -injunction be made
perpetual on final hearing; for costs; and for &eneral reliefThe demurrer assigned the following catises:
"First. That this court has no jurisdiction of either the parties to or of the subject-matter of this suit, because it appears
from the face of said bill that the matters corlplained of do
not constitute, within the meaning of the Constitution of the
United States, any controversy between the States of Louisiana
and Texas.
"Second. Because the allegations of said bill show that the
only issues presented by said bill arise between the State of
Texas or her officers and certain persons in the city of New
Orleans, in the State of Louisiana, who are engaged in interstate commerce, and which do not in any manner concern the
State of Louisiana as a corporate body or State.
. "Third. Because said bill shows upon its face that this suit
is in reality for and on behalf of certain individuals engaged
in interstate commerce, and while the suit is attempted to be
prosecuted for and in the name of. the State of Louisiana, said
State is in effect loaning its name to said individuals and is
only a nominal party, the real parties at interest being said
individuals in the said city of New Orleans who are engaged
in interstate commerce.
"Fourth. Because it appears from the face of said bill that
the State of Louisiana, in her right of sovereignty, is seeking
to maintain this suit for the redress of the supposed wrongs of
her citizens in'regard to interstate commerce, while under the
Constitution and laws the said State possesses no such sovereignty as empowers her to bring an original suit in this court
for such purpose.

LOUISIANTA v. TEXAS:
Opinion of the Court.

"Fifth. Because it appears from the face of said bill that
no property. right of the State of Louisiana is in any manner
affected by the quarantine complained of, nor is any such
property right involved in this suit as would give this court
original jurisdiction of this cause."
-Mr. .ilton T. Cunningham, .i'. Edgar H. Farrar,Mr.
Benjamin F. Jonas,Ar. Ernest B. 15,uttschnitt, and Mr. E.
toward Jf Caleb for the State of Louisiana.

.Ar. Thomas S.Smith and -Mr. 1olert -f. Ward for the
State of Texas and others.
M/TR. CHIEF

JUsTicE FuLLR,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The ninth of the Articles of Confederation of 1778 provided
that the Congress should bb "the last resort on appeal in all
disputes and differences now subsisting or that may hereafter
arise between two or more States concerning boundary, jurisdiction or any other cause whatever," the authority to be exercised through a tribunal to.be created by the Congress as prescribed, and whose' judgment should be final and conclusive;
and also that "all controversies concerning the private right
of soil claimed under different grants of two or more States"
should be determined in the same manner.
In the Constitutional Coivention, the Committee of Detail,
composed of Rutledge, Randolph, Gorham, Ellsworth and
Wilson, to which the resolutions arrived at by the Convention
and sundry propositions had been referred, reported on the
sixth of August, A.D. 1787, a draft of a Constitution, consisting of twenty-three articles.
The second section of the ninth article provided that as to
"all disputes and controversies now subsisting, or that may
hereafter subsist, between two or more States, respecting
jurisdiction or territory," the Senate should have power to
designate a special tribunal to 'finally determine the same by
its judgment; and by the third section, "all controversies concerning lands claimed under. different grants of two or more
States" were to be similarly determined.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

• The third section of the proposed eleventh article provided,
among other things, that the jurisdiction of the Supreme
Court should extend •"to controversies between two or more
"States, except such as shill regard territory or jurisdiction;
between a State and citizens of another State; between citizens of different States; and between a State, or the citizens
*thereof, and foreign States, citizens br subjects."
On the twenty-fifth of August Mr. Rutledge said in respect
*to sections two and three of article nine: "This pfrovision for
deciding controversies between the States was necessary under
the Confederation, bitt will be rendered unnecessary by the,National Judiciary now to-be established;" and on his motion
the sections were stricken out.
The words "between citizens of the same State claiming
lInds under grants of different States" were subsequently
inserted in the third section of the eleventh article, and the
words "except such as shall regard territory or jurisdiction"
omitted. 1 Elliot, 223, 224, 261, 262, 267, 270; 5 Elliot, 471;
Meigs on Growth of the Constitution, 24, 249.
Clauses 1 and 2 of the second section of Article EEI of the
Constitution as finally adopted read:
"The judicial power shall extend to all eases, in law and
equity, arising under this Constitution, the laws of the United
States, and treaties made, or which shall be made, under
their authority; to all cases affecting ambassadors, other piblic ministers and consuls; to all cases of admiralty and
maritime jurisdictioni to controversies to which the United
States shall be a party; to "controversies between two or
more States; between a State and citizens of another State;
between citizens of different States, between citizens of the
same State claiming lands under grants of different States, and
between a State, or the citizens thereof, and foreign States,
citizens or subjects.
"In all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers
and consuls, and those in which a State shall be party, the
Supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction. In all the other
cases before mentioned, the Supreme Court shall have appellate
jurisdiction, both asto law and fact, with such exceptions, and
under such regulations as the Congress shall make."

LOUISIANA v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

The reference we have made to, the derivation of the words
"controversies between two or more. States" manifestly indicates that the framers of the Constitution intended that they
should include something more than controversies over "territory or jurisdiction"; for in the original. draft as reported the
latter controversies were to be disposed of by the Senate, and
controversies other than those by the judiciary, to which by
amendment all were finally committed. But it is, apparent
that the jurisdiction is of so delicate and grave, a character
that it was not contemplated that it would be exercised -save.
when the 'necessity was absolute and the matter in itself
properly justiciable.
Undoubtedly, as remarked by Mr. Justice Bradley in Han8
v. Zouiaiana, 134 U. S. 1, 15, the Constitution .made some
things "justiciable which were not known as.such at the
common law; such, for example, as controversies betweem
States as to boundary lines, and other questions admitting of
judicial solution. . . . The establishment of this new
branch of jurisdiction, seemed to be necessary from the
extinguishment of diplomatic relations between the States.
Of other controversies between a State and another" State or
its citizens, which on the settled principles of public law are
not siabjects of judicial cognizance, this court has often
declined to take jurisdiction. See Wisconrsi v. Peliccn .1n8.
Co., 127 U. S. 265, 288, 289, and cases there cited."
By tht Judiciary Act of 1784 the judicial system was organized and the powers of the different courts defined.. Its
thirteenth section, carried forward as § 687 of the Revised
Statutes, provided "that the Supreme Court shall have
exclusive jurisdiction of all controversies of a civil nature,
where a State is a party, except between a State and its citizens; and except also between a State and citizens of other
States, or aliens, in which latter case it shall have original
,but not exclusive jurisdiction."
The language of, the second clause of the second sedtion of
Article III, "in all cases in which a State shall be party,"
means in all the enumerated cases in which a State shall be
a party, and this is stated expressly when the clause speaks

OCTOBER TERMt, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

of the other cases where appellate jprisdiction is to be.
exercised. This second clause distributes the jurisdiction
conferred in the previous one into Original. and appellate
jurisdiction, but does not profess to bonfer any. The original
jurisdiction depends solely on the character of the parties, and
is confined to the cases in which are those enumerated parties
and those only. Californiav. Southern Pacific RailroadCompany, 157 U. S. 229, 259 ; United States v. Texas, 143 U. S.
621. And by the Constitution and according to the statute,
the original jurisdiction of this court is exclusive over suits
between States, though not exclusive over those between a
State and citizens of another State.On the 8th of January, 1798, the Eleventh Amendment was
ratified, as follows: "The judicial power of the United States
shall not be construed to extend to any suit in law or equity,
commenced or prosecuted against one of the United States by
citizens of another State, or by citizens or subjects of any foreign State."
Referring to this Amendment, Mr. Chief Justice Waite, in
New Hampshire v. Louisiana and New York v. Louisana,
108 U. S. 76, 91, said: "The evident purpose of the Amendment, so promptly proposed and finally adopted, was to prohibit all suits against a State by or for citizens of other States,
or aliens, without the consent of the State to be sued, ahdld our
opinion, one State cannot create a controversy with another
State within the meaning of that term as used in the judicial
clauses of the Constitution by assuming the prosecution of
debts owing by other States to its citizens."
In order then to maintain jurisdiction of this bill of com-.
plaint as against the State of Texas, it must appear that the
controversy to be determined is a controversy arising directly
between the State of Louisiana and the State of. Texas, and
not a controversy in the vindication of grievances of particular
individuals.
By the Constitution, the States are forbidden to "enter into
any treaty, alliance or confederation; grant letters of marque
and reprisal;" or, without the consent of Congress, "keep
troops, or ships of war in time of peace, enter into any agree-

LOUISIANA v.- TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

ment or compact with another State, or with a foreign power,
or engage in .war, unless actually invaded, or in such imminent
danger as will not admit of delay." Art. 1, seo. 10.
Controversies between them arising out of piublic relations
and intercourse cannot be settled either by war or diplomacy,
though, with the consent of Congress, they may be composed
by agreement. As pointed out by 'Mr. Justice Field in Virginia v. Tennessee, 148 U. S. 503, 519, there are many matters

on which the different States may agree that can in no respect
concern the United States, while there are other compacts or
agreements to which the prohibition of the Constitution applies. And as to this, he quotes fron Mr. Justice Story as
follows: "Story, in his Commentaries, (§ 1403,) referring to
a previous part of the same section of the Constitution in
which the clause in question appears, observed that its language 'may be more plausibly interpreted from the terms
used, "treaty, alliance or confederation," and upon the ground
that the sense of each is best known by its association. (noscitur & 800111) to apply to treaties of a political character; such
as treaties of alliance for purposes of peace and war; and
treaties of confederation, in which the parties are leagued for
mutual government, political co5peration, and the exeicise of
political sovereignty, and treaties of cession of sovereignty, or
conferring internal political jurisdiction, or external political
dependence, or general commercial privileges ;' and that ' the
latter clause, "compacts and agreements," might then very
properly apply to such as regarded what might be deemed
mere private rights of sovereignty; such as -questions 'of
boundary; interests in lands situate in the territory of each
other, and other internal regulations for the mutual comfort
and convenience of States bordering on each other:' And he
adds: ' In such cases the consent of Congress may be properly
required, in order to check any infringement of the rights of
the National Government; and, at the same time, a total prohibition to enter into any dompact or agreement might be
attended with permanent inconvenience or public mischief.'
But it was also there ruled that where the consent of Congress
was requisite, it might be given subsequently or might be
VOL. CLXXVI-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

-

implied from subsequent action of Congress itself toward the
two States.
In the absence of agreement it may be that a controversy
might arise between two States for the determination of which
the original jurisdiction of this court could be invoked, but
there, must be a direct issue between them, and the subjectmatter must be susceptible of judicial solution. And it is difficult to conceive of a direct issue between two States in respect
of a matter where no effort at accommodation has been made;
nor can it be conceded that it is within the judicial function
to inquire into the motives of a state legislature in passing a
law, or of the chief magistrate of a State in enforcing it in
the exercise of his discretion and judgment. Public policy
forbids the imputation to authorized official action of any other
than legitimate motives.
As might be expected in view of the nature of the jurisdiction, the cases are few in which the aid of the court has been
sought -in "controversies between two or more States." They
are cited in Wisconsin v. Pelioan Ins. Co., 127 U. S.265, and
are chiefly controversies as to boundaries.
In South caroinav. Georgia,93 U. S.4,14, a bill was filed
for an injunction against the State of Georgia, the Secretary
of War and others, from" obstructing or interrupting" the
navigation of the Savannah River in violation of the compact
entered into between the States of South Carolina and Georgia on the 24th day of April, 1787. The bill was dismissed because no unlawful obstruction of navigation was proved, but
the question was expressly reserved whet.her "a State3 when
suing in this court for the prevention of a nuisance in a navigable river of the United States, must not -aver and show that
it will sustain some special and peculiar injury, therefrom, and
such as would enable a private person to maintain a similar
action in another court."
So in Wisponsin v. Duluth, 96 U. S. 379, 382, the contention
that the court could "take cognizance of no question which
concerns alone the rights of a State in her political or sovereign character; that to sustain the suit .she must have some
proprietary interest which is affected by. the defendant," was
iiot passed upon.

LOUISIANA v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

In Pennsylvania v. Wheeling &f Belmont Bridge Co., 13
How. 519, the court treated the. suit as brought to protect the
property of the State of Pennsylvania.
But in Debs, Petiioner,158 U. S. 564, involving a case in
the Circuit Court in which the United States had sought relief
by injunction, it was observed: "That 'While it is not the province of the Government to interfere in any mere 'Matter of
private controversy between individuals, or to use its great
powers to enforce the rights of one against another, yet, whenever the wrongs complained of are such as affect the public at
large, and are in respect of matters which by the'Constitution
are intrusted to the care' of the Nation, and concerning which
the Nation owes the duty to all the citizens of securing to
them their common rights, then the mere fact that the Government has no pecuniary interest in the controversy is not
sufficient to exclude it from the courts or prevent it from taking measures therein to fully discharge those constitutional
duties."
It, is in this aspect that the bill before us is framed. Its
gravamen is not a special and peculiar injury such as would
sustain an action by a private person, but the State of Louisiana presents herself in the attitude of parenspatricv,trustee,
guardian or representative of all her citizens.
She does this from the point of view that the State of. Texas
is intentionally absolutely interdicting interstate commerce
as respects the State of Louisiana by means of unnecessary
and unreasonable quarantine regulations. Inasmuch as the
vindication of the freedom of -interstate commerce is not committed to the State of Louisiana, and that State is not engaged
in such commerce, the cause of action must be regarded not
as involving any infringement of the powers of the State
of Louisiana, or any special injury to her property, but as
asserting that the State is entitled to seek relief in this way
because the matters complained of affect her citizens at large.
Nevertheless if the case stated is not one presenting a controversy between these States, the exercise of 'original jurisdiction by this court as against the State of Texas. cannot be
maintained.

OCTOBER TER-,. 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

By Title xon of the Revised Statutes of the State of Texas
of 1895, "The Governor is empowered to issue his proclamation declaring quarantine on the coast, or elsewhere within
this State, whenever in his judgment quarantine' may become
necessary, and such quarantine may continue for any length
of time as in the judgment of the Governor ihe safety and
security of the people may require." It is made theGovernor's duty "to select and appoint, by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate, from the most skilful physicians of the
State of Texas, one physician who shall be known as health
officer of the State, and shall from previous. aind 'active practice
be familiar with yellow fever and 'pledged to the importance of
both q*uarantine and sanitation." It was also provided that
"wheneve the Governor has reason to believe that the State
of Te'xas is threatened at anypoint or'place on the coast,
-border or elsewhere with'in the State with the introduction or
dissemination of yellow fever contagion, or any other infectious
and contagious diseas6 that can and should, in the opinion of the
-state health 6ffioer, *be guarded against by state quarantine,
lie' shall, by proclamation, immediately declare said quarantine
against any and all such places, and direct the state health
officer to promptly establish and enforce the restrictions and
cohditions imposed and indicated by said quarantine proclamation, and when from any cause the Governor cannot act,
and the exigencies of the threatened danger require immediate action, the state health officer is empowered to declare
quarantine as prescribed in this article, and maintain the, same
until the Governor shall officially take such action as he may
see proper." And further, that the laws in regard to state
quarantine should remain and be in full force and operation
on the coast or elsewhere in the State as the Governor or
health officer might direct, and be enforced as heretofore,
"with such additional changes in station and general management'as- the Governor may think proper." Differences and
disputes in regard to local quarantine were to be determined
by the Governot, and all county and municipal. quarantine
was made subordinate to such rules and regulations as might
be prescribed by the Governor or state health officer. It

LOUISIANA v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

was made the duty of any county, town or city authority on
the coast or elsewhere in the State, on the promulgation of
the Governor's proclamation declaring 'quarantine, to provide
suitable stations and employ conpetent physicians as health
officers subject to the approval of the Governor, and in case
of the failure of the authorities to do so, the Governor was
empowered to act. Provision was made for the detention of
persons, and vessels, and for the disinfection of vessels and
their cargoes and passengers arriving at the ports of Texas
from any infected port. or district, and for rules and regulations in regard thereto, "the object of such rules and regulations being to provide safety for the public health of the State
without unnecessary restriction upon commerce and travel."
It is not charged that this statute is invalid nor could-it be
if tested by its terms. While it is true that the power vested
in Congress to regulate commerce among the States is a power
complete in itself, acknowledging no limitations other than
those prescribed in the Constitution, and that where the action
of the States in the exercise of their reserved powers comes
into collision with it, the latteri must give Ivay, yet it is also
true that quarantine laws belong to that class of state legislation which is valid until displaced by Congress, and that
such legislation has*been expressly recognized by the laws of
the United States almost from the beginning of the Government.
In Xorgan Steamship Company v. Louisiana Board of
Hfealth, 118 U. $. 455, this was so held, and Mr. Justice
IfMiller, delivering the opinion of the court, said: "The matter
is one in which the rules that should govern it may in many.
respects be different in different localities and for that reason be better understood and more wisely established by the
local authorities. The practice which should control a quarantine station on the Mississippi River, one hundrbd miles
from the sea, may be widely and wisely -different from that
which is best for the harbor of New York." • Hence, even if
Congress had remained silent on the subject, it, would not
have followed that the exercise of the police power of the
State in this regard, although necessarily operating on inter-

OCTOBER TERM,. 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

state commerce, would be therefore invalid. Although from
the nature and subjects of the power of regulating commerce
it must be ordinarily exercised by the National -Government
exclusively, this has not been held to be so where in relation
to the particular subject-matter different rules might be suitable in different localities. At the same time, Congress could
by affirmative action displace the local laws, substitute laws
of its -own, and thus correct any unjustifiable and oppressive
exercise of power by state legislation.
The complaint here, however, is not that the laws of Texas
in respect of quarantine are invalid, but that the health officer,
by rules and regulations framed and put in force by him thereunder,.places an embargo in fact on all interstate commerce
between the State of Louisiaha and the State of Texas, and,
that the Governor permits-these rules and regulations to stand
and be enforced, although he has the power to modify or
chaiage them. The bill is not rested merely on the ground of
the imposition of an embargo without regard to motive, but
charges that the rules and regulations are more stringent than
called for by the particular exigency, and are purposely framed
with the view to benefit the State of Texas, and the city of'
Galveston in particular, at the expense of the State of Louisiana, and especially of the city of New Orleans.
But in order that a controversy between States, justiciable
in this court, can be held. to exist, something more must be
put forward than that the citizens of one State are injured by
the maladministration of the laws of another. The States
cannot make war, or enter into treaties, though they may,
with the c6nsent of Congress, make compacts and agreements.
When there is no agreement, whose breach might create it, a
controversy between States does not arise unless the action
complained of is state action, and acts of state officers in
abuse -or excess of their powers cannot be laid hold of as in
themselves commaitting one State to a distinct collision with a
sister-State.
In our judgment this bill does not set up facts which show
that the State of Texas hag so authorized or confirmed the
alleged action of liar health officer as to make it her own, oi

LOUISIANA v. TEXAS.
Concurring Opinion: Harlan, 3.

from which it necessarily follows that the two States are in
controversy within the meaning of the Constitution.
Finally we are unable to hold that the bill may be maintained as presenting a case of controversy "between a State
and citizens of another State."
Jurisdiction over controversies of that sort does not embrace the determination of political questions, and, where
no controversy exists-between States, it is not for this court
to res train the Governor of a State in the discharge of his
executive functions in a matter lawfully confided to his discretion and judginent. Nor can we accept the suggestion
that the bill can be maintained as against the health officer
alone on the theory that his conduct is in violation or in excess of a valid law of the State, as the remedy for that would
clearly lie with the state authorities, and no refusal to fulfil
their duty in that regard is set up. In truth it is difficult to
see how on this record there could be a. controversy between
the State'of Louisiana and the individual defendants' without
involving a controversy between the States, and such a controversy, as we have said, is not presented.
Demum'er su8tained and bill dismimed.
MRh.

JusTioE WnrrE concurred in the result.

MR.

JusTiE, HARLA.concurring.

Taking, the allegations of the bill to be true-as upon
demurrer must be done -this suit cannot be regarded as one
relating only to local regulations that incidentally affect interstate commerce and which the State may adopt and maintain
in the absence of national regulations on the subject. On the
contrary, if the allegations of the bill be true, the Texas authorities have gone beyond the necessities of the situation and
established a quarantine system that is absolutely subversive
of all commerce between Texas and Louisiana, particularly
commerce between Texas and New Orleans. This court has
often declared that the States have the power to protect the
health of their people by police regulations directed to that

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Concurring Opinion: Harlan, .

end, and that regulations of that character are not to be
disregarded because they may indirectly or incidentally affect
interstate commerce. But when that principle has been announced it has always been said that the police power of a
State cannot be so exerted as to obstruct foreign or interstate
commerce beyond the necessity for its exercise, and that the
courts must guard vigilantly against needless intrusion upon
the field committed to Congress. Railroad Co. v. -Husen,95
U. S. 465, 470-473; Hennington-v. Georgia, 163 U. S. 299,
313, 318; .fissouri, Hansas and Texas Railway v. Haber,
169 U. S. 613, 628, 630. The present suit proceeds distinctly
on the ground that the regulations established by the authorities of Texas under its statute go beyond what is necessary
to protect the people of that State against the introduction
of infectious diseases and destroy the possibility of any commerce between New Orleans and Texas. Now, if Texas has
no right, by its officers, to establish regulations that unreasonably or unnecessarily burden commerce between that State
and Louisiana, and if the State of Louisiana is entitled, under
the Constitution, to have the validity of such regulations
tested in a judicial tribunal, then- this court should put the
defendants to their answer, and the cause should proceed to
a final decree upon its merits.
But I am of opinion that the State of Louisiana, in its
sovereign or corporate capacity, cannot bring any action in
this court on account of the matters set forth in its bill. The
case involves no property interest of that State. Nor is
Louisiana charged with any duty, nor has it any powe.r, t&
Congress alone has authorregulate interstate commerce.
ity in that respect. When the Constitution gave this court'
jurisdiction of controversies between States, it did not thereby
authorize a State to bring another State to the bar of this
court for the purpose of testing the constitutionality of local
statutes or regulations that do not affect the property or the
powers of the complaining State in its sovereign or corporate
capacity, but which at most affect only the rights of individual citizens or corporations engaged in interstate commerce.
The word "controversies" in the clauses extending the judi-

]MOUISIANA v. TEXAS.
Concurring Opinion: Harlan, J.

cial powers of the United States to controversies "between
two or more States,"' and to controversies "between a State
and citizens of another State," and the word "party" in the
clause declaring that this court shall have original jurisdiction
of all cases "in which a State shall be party" refer to controversies or cases that are justiciable as between the parties
thereto, and not to controversies or cases that do not involve
either the property or powers of the State which complains
in its sovereign or corporate capacity that its people are
injuriously affected in their rights by the legislation of another
State. The citizens of the complaining State may, in proper
cases, invoke judicial protection of their property or rights
when assailed by the laws and authorities of another State,
but their State cannot, even with their consent, make their
case its case and compel the offending State and its authorities to appear as defendants in an action brought in this
court. If this be not so, we were wrong in .New Hamphire
v. Louisiana,108 U. S. 76, in which case it was held that one
State could not, by taking charge of demands or debts held
by its citizens against another State, acquire the right to
bring a suit in its name in this court against the debtor State.
I must express my inability to concur in that part of the
opinion of the court relating to the clause of the .Constitution
extending the judicial power of the United States to controversies 'between a State and citizens of another Statey In
reference to a controversy of .that sort the court says that
where none exist between States, it is not for this court
to restrain the Governor of a State in the discharge of his
executive functions in a matter confided to his discretion and
judgment. But how can the Governor of a State be said to
have an executive function to disregard the Constitution of
the United States? How can his State authorize him to do
that? It is one thing to compel the Governor of a State, by
judicial order, to take affirmative action upon a designated
subject. It is quite a different thing to say that being
directly charged with the execution of a statute he may not
be restrained by judicial orders from taking such action as
he deems proper, even if what he is doing and proposes to do

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Concurring Opinion: Harlan, J.

is forbidden by the supreme law of the land. His official
character gives him no immunity from judicial authority
exerted for the protection of the constitutional rights of
others against his illegal action. He cannot be invested by
his State with any discretion or judgment to violate the Constitution of the United States.
The court also says that it cannot accept the suggestion
that the bill can be maintained as against the health officer
alone on the theory that his conduct is in violation or in
excess of a valid law of the State, as the remedy for that
would lie with the state authorities, and no refusal to fulfil
their duty in that regard is set up; and that it is difficult
to see how on this record there could be a controversy
between the State of Louisiana and the individual defendants
without involving a controversy between the States. But the
important question presented in this case-if the State of
Louisiana in its sovereign capacity can sue at all in respect
of the matters set out in the bill- is, whether the regulations being enforced by the health officer are in violation of
the Constitution of the United States. The opinion of the
court will be construed as meanin& that even if Louisiana he
entitled, in her sovereign capacity, to complain of those regulations as repugnant to the Constitution of the United States,
it could not proceed in this court against the defendant
health officer, and that its only remedy is to appeal to the
authorities of Texas, that is, to the Governor of that State,
who has power to control his co-defendant, the health officer, and who has approved the regulations in question. I am
not aware of any decision supporting this view. If the regulations in question are in violation of the Constitution of the
United States, the defendant health officer, I submit, may,
without any previous appeal to the Governor of Texas, be
restrained from enforcing them, either at the suit of individuals injuriously affected by their being enforced, or at the
suit of Louisiana .inits corporate capacity, provided that
State could sue at all in respect of such matters.
Although unable to assent to the grounds upon which the
court rests its opinion, I concur in the judgment dismissing

LOUISIAIA v. TEXAS.
Concurring Opinion: Brown, J.

the suit solely upon the ground that the State of Louisiana
in its sovereign or corporate capacity cannot sue on account
of the matters set out in the bill..
Mn. TUSTICE Bnow-N concurring in the result.

I am not prepared to say that if the State of Texas had
placed an embargo upon the entire commerce between Louisiana and Texas, the State of Louisiana would not be suffici~ntly representative of the great body of her citizens to
maintain this bill.
In view of the solicitude which from time immemorial
States have manifested for the interest of their own citizens;
of the fact that wars are frequently waged by States in vindication of individual rights, of which the last war with
Englan'd, the opium war of 1840 between Great Britain and
China, and the war which is now being carried on in South
Africa between Great Britain and the Transvaal Republic,
are all notable examples; of the further fact that treaties are
eitered into for the protection of individual rights, that international tribunals are constantly being established for the settlement of rights of private parties, it would seem a strange
anomaly if a State of this Union, which is prohibited by the
Constitution from levying war upon another State, could not
invoke the authority of this court by suit to raise an embargo
which had been established by another State against its citizens and their property.
An embargo, though not an act of war, is frequently
resorted to as preliminary to a declaration of war, and may
be treated under certain circumstances as a sufficient casus
belli. The case made by the bill is the extreme one of a
total stoppage of all commerce between thmost important
city in Louisiana and the entire State of Texas; and while I
fully agree that resort cannot be had to this court to vindicate the rights of individual citizens, or any particular number of individuals, where a State has assumed to prohibit all
kinds of commerce with the chief city of another State, I think
her motive for doing so is the proper subject of judicial inquiry.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

It is true that individual citizens, whose rights are seriously
affected by a system of non-intercourse, might, perhaps, maintain a bill of this kind; but to make the remedy effective
it would be necessary to institute a multiplicity of suits, to
carry on a litigation practically against a State in the courts
of that State, and to assume the entire pecuniary burden of
such. litigation, when all the inhabitants of the complaining
State are more or less interested in the result.
But the objection to the present bill is that it does not
allege the stoppage of all commerce between the two States,
but between the city of New Orleans and the State of Texas.
The controversy is not one in which the citizens of Louisiana
generally can be assumed to be interested, but only the citizens of New Orleans, and it therefor.e seems to me that the
State is not the proper party complainant.

.76 592

UNITED STATES v. OREGON AND CALIFORNIA
RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 9. Argued April14, 1899.-

Decided January 8,1900.

By the act of July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 365, c. 217, Congress granted lands to
the Northern Pacific Railroad Company to aid in the construction of a
railroad and telegraph lipe from a point on Lake Superior in Wisconsin
or Minnesota to some ppint on Puget Sound, with a branch via the valley
of the Columbia River to a point at or near Portland in the State of
Oregon. The grant-was of "every alternate section of public land, not
mineral, designated by odd numbers, to the amount of twenty alternate
sections per mile on each side of said railroad line as said company may
adopt through the Territories of the United States, and ten alternate
sections of land per mile on each side of said railroad whenever it passes
through any State, and whenever, on the line thereof, the United States
have full title, not reserved, sold, granted or otherwise appropriated, and
free from preemption, or other claims or rights, at the time the line of
said roaq is definitely fixed, and a plat thereof filed in the office of the

