OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

BALTIMORE & OHIO SOUTHWESTERN RAILWAY
COMPANY v. VOIGT.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 88. Argued December 20, 21, 1899.- Decided February 26, 1900.
The railway company, being engaged as common carrier in the business of
transporting passengers and freight for hire, entered into a contract in
writing with an express company authorized by law to do and actually
doing the business known as express business, by which contract the
railroad company agreed, solely upon the considerations and terms hereinafter mentioned, to furnish for the exclusive use of such express company, in the conduct of its said express business over said railway
company's lines, certain privileges, facilities and express cars to be used
and employed exclusively by said express company in' the conduct of
such express business; and to transport said cars and contents, consisting of express matter, in its fast passenger trains, together with one or
more persons in charge of said express matter, known as express messengers, for that purpose to be allowed to ride in said express cars; to
transport such express messengers for the purposes and under the circumstances aforesaid free of charge. And by said contract it was agreed
on the part of said express company to pay said railroad company for
such privileges and facilities ,and for the furnishing and use of said express car or cars, and for such transportation thereof, a compensation
named in said contract; and by which contract It was further agreed by
the express company to protect the railroad company and hold it harmless from all liability it might. be under to employds of the express company for any injuries sustained by them while being so transported by
said railroad company, whether the injuries were caused by negligence
of the railroad company or its employgs or otherwise. Voigt made
application to said express company in writing to be employed by it as
express messenger on the railroad of a company, between which and
such express company a contract as aforesaid existed, and such applicant, pursuant to his application, was employed by the express company
under a contract in writing signed by him and it, whereby it was agreed
between him and the express company that he did assume the risk of all
accident or injury he might sustain in the course of said employment,
whether occasioned by negligence or otherwise, and did undertake and
agree to indemnify and hold harmless said express company from any
and all claims that might be made against it arising out of any claim or
recovery on his part for any damages sustained by him by reason of any
injury, whether such damage resulted from negligence or otherwise, and
to pay said express company on demand any suin which it might be com-

BALTIMNORE & OHIO &c. RAILWAY v. VOIGT. '499
Statement of the Case.
pelled to pay in consequence of any such claim, and to execute and deliver
to said railroad company a good and sufficient release under his band and
seal of all claims and demands and causes of action arising out of or in
any manner connected with said employment, and expressly ratified the
agreement aforesaid between said express company and said railroad company. Held, that Voigt, 'occupying an express car as a messenger in
charge of express matter, in pursuance of the contract between the companies, was not a passenger within the meaning of the case of Railroad
Company v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357; that he was not constrained to enter
into the contract whereby the railroad company was exonerated from
liability to him, but entered into the same freely and voluntarily, and

obtained the benefit of it by securing his appointment as such messenger;
and that such a contract did not contravene public policy.
I

THE following statement and question were certified to this
court by the Tudges of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Sixth Circuit:
"This was an action brought by William Voigt, the defendant in error, against the Baltimore and Ohio Southwestern
Railway Company, the plaintiff in error, to recover for damages
sustained by him in consequence of a collision between two
trains of the plaintiff in error, upon one ot which, a fast passenger train, he was riding'at the time of the accident. He
was an express messenger riding in a car which was set apart
for the use of the United States Express Company, and occupied by that company for its purposes under a contract between
the express company and the railway company. The plaintiff
alleged in his petition that he was travelling as a passenger for
hire on one of the defendant's trains, being an express messenger on said train. In fact, he was upon said train only by
virtue of his employment as express messenger of his company
and the above-mentioned contract between his company and
the railway company. The answer of the railway company
set up two grounds of defence. The first admitted that Voigt
was an express messenger on its train, but denied that he wastravelling as a passenger for hire. The railway company also
admitted that on the occasion of the injury complained of, the
train on which he was riding came into collision with another
of its trains, and that in the collision Voigt sustained injuries.
The second ground of defence, inasnuch as it sets out the specific matter in controversy, is here set forth in detail:

500

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

"' For a second and separate defence the railway company
answered that on the day in question it was, and had for a
long time prior thereto been, a corporation under the laws of
Ohio engaged in the operation of its railroad from Cincinnati
to St. Louis and other places, and was so engaged'at the time
of the collision referred to, and that on the 1st day of :March,
1895, it entered into a contract with the United States Express
Company, a joint stock company duly authorized by law to
carry on the express business and to enter into such contract,
and that by said contract it was agreed between the express
company and the railway company, among other-things, that
the railway company would furnish for the express company,
on the railway company's line between Cincinnati and St.
Louis, cars adapted to the carriage of such express matter as
the express company desired to, have transported over said
line, and that it was part of said contract that one or more
employ6s of said express company should accompany said
goods in said cars over the said line of said railroad, and for
such purpose should betransported in said cars free of charge;
and that it was further provided in said contract that the
express companyshould protect the railway company and hold
it harmless from all liability the railway company might be
under to employ6s of. the express company for injary they
might sustain while being transported by the railway company
over its line for the purpose aforesaid, whether the injuries
were caused by negligence of the railway company or its employ~s or otherwise. The railway company further averred
that, pursuant to said contract with the express company, it
placed upon its line of railroad for said express company certaifi cars known as express cars, and that it was hauling one
of said cars on one of its trains on the 30th of December,.1895,
at the time said collision occurred, and that prior to the time
of tl~e accident Voigt had made application to the express
company in writing for employment by it as an express messenger, and that in pursuance to said application he was, prior
to and at the time of the collision, employed by the express
company under a contract in writing between him and it, by
the terms whereof, he did assume the risk of all accidents and

BALTIMORE & OHIO &c. RAILWAY v. VOIGT.

501

Statement of the Case.

injuries that he might sustain in the course of his said employment, whether occasioned by negligence and whether resulting
in death or otherwise, and did undertake and agree to indemnify and hold harmless the said express company from any
and all claims that might be made against it arising out of
any claim or recovery on his part for any damages sustained
by him by reason of any injury, whether such injury resulted
trom negligence or otherwise, and did agree to pay to said
express company on demand any sum which it might be compelled to pay in consequence of any such claim, and did agree
to execute and deliver to the corporation operating the transportation line (in this instance the railway company), upon
which he might be injured, a good and sufficient release under
his hand and seal of all -claims, demands and causes of action
arising out of any such injury or connected with or resulting
therefrom, and did ratify all agreements made by the express
company with any transportation line (in this instance said
railway company), in which said express company had agreed
or might agree that the employes of said express company
should have no cause of action for injuries sustained in the
course of their employment upon the line of such transportation company; and that the said Voigt did further agree to be
bound by each and every of the agreements above mentioned
as fully as if he were a party thereto. He did agree that his
contract with the express company should inure to the benefit
of any corporation upon whose line said express company
should forward merchandise (in this instance the said railway
company), as fully and completely as if made directly with the
corporation. In said defence it was further set forth that at the
time the plaintiff sustained the injuries for which the suit was
brought he was in an express car being transported by the railway company over its line from Cincinnati to St. Louis, pursuant to said contract.between said express company and the
railway company, and that said Voigt was at the time of the
collision upon said car in pursuance to his contract with said
express company and not otherwise.'
"To this second defence a demurrer was interposed by Voigt
on the ground that the allegations therein did not constitute a

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case. '

defence to the action. Upon the hearing of this demurrer it
was sustained, 4nd an entry wa,%made of record finding the d&murrer well taken. The opinion of the court sustaining the
demurrer is published in 79 Fed. Rep. 560. The decision of the
court went upon the ground that although Voigt was an express messenger riding upon an express car in the circumstances
stated, he was a passenger for hire and entitled to the rights
accorded by law to ordinary passengers travelling by a train of
a common carrier, and further that it was not competent for
the railway company to absolve itself from the duties which
rest upon a common carrier in reference to its passengers. A
stipulation in writing was filed waiving a trial, by jury, and the
case was tried by the court. The finding of the issues was in'
favor of the plaintiff and the damages were assessed at the sum
of $6,000.00, and judgment was- thereupon entered that the
plaintiff recover that sum with costs. The defendant brings the
case here on writ -f error, and assigns errors, the substancb of
which is involved in the ruling of the court below sustaining the
demurrer to the second defence of the answer of the dtfendanl, and the controversy here involves the question whether in p6int,
of law a messenger of an express company, occupying a car of
a railway company assigned to. an express company for the
prosecution of its business under a contract fixing the relations
of the railway company. and the express company, which, for
the consideration shown by the contract, absolves the railway'
company from the consequence of its negligence to the express
company and its employis, and to which the employ6 agrees,
upon entering the service of the express company, stands in
the ordinary relation of a common carrier of passengers for
hire to the employ6 of the express company. The rule is
undoubtedly well settled that a railway company standing in
the relation of a .common carrier to a passenger for hire cannot
absolve itself for.liability from the consequences of its negliksnce in carriage, but -the members of the court ate in doubt
whether the defendant in error comes within the rile above
mentioned, and, therefore, upon the foregoing statement of
fact it is ordered that the following question be certified to the
Supreme Court of the United States for its instruction:

* BALTIMORE & OHIO &c. RAILWAY v. VOIGT.

503

Statement of the Case.
" Question.
"A railroad company, engaged as common carrier in the
business of transporting passengers and freight for hire, entered
into a contract in writing with an express company authorized
by law to do and actually doing the business known as express
business, by which contract the railroad company agreed, solely
upon the considerations and terms hereinafter mentioned, to
furnish for the exclusive use of such express company, in the
conduct of its said express business over said railway company's
lines, certain privileges, facilities and express cars to be used
and employed exclusively by said express company in the conduct of such express business; and to transport said cars and.
contents, consisting of express matter, in its fast passenger
trains, together with one or more persons in charge of said
express matter, known as express messengers, for that purpose
to be allowed fo ride in said express cars; to transport such
express messengers for the purposes and under the circumstances aforesaid free of charge. And by said contract it was
agreed on the part of said express company to pay said railroad
company for such privileges and facilities and f6r the furnishing and use of said express car or cars, and for such transportation thereof, a compensation named in said contract; and by
which contract it was further agreed by the express company
to protect the railroad company and hold if harmless from all
liability it might be under to employ~s of the express company
for any injuries sustained by them while being so transported
by said'railroad company, whether the injuries were caused by
negligence of the railroad company or its employ~s or otherwise. A person made application to said express company in
writing to be employed by it as express messenger on the railroad of a company, between which and such express company
a contract as aforesaid existed, and such applicant, pursuant to
the application aforesaid, was employed by said express company under a contract in writing signed by him and it, whereby
it was agreed between him and such express company that he
did assume the risk of all accident or injury he might sustain
in the course of said employment, whether occasioned by negligence or otherwise, and did undertake and agree to indemnify

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

and hold harmless said express company from any and all
claims that might be made against it arising out of any claim
or recovery on his part for any damages sustained by him by
reason of any injury, whether such damage resulted from negligence or otherwise, and to pay said express company on
demand any sum which it might be compelled to pay in consequence of any such claim, and to execute and deliver to said
railroad company a good and sufficient release under his hand
and seal of all claims and demands and causes of action arising
out of or in any manner connected with said employment, and
expressly ratified the agreement aforesaid between said express
company and said railroad company.
"Does said railroad company assume, toward such express
messenger while being carried in the course of his said employment in one of said express cars attached to a passenger train
of said railroad company, pursuant to the contracts aforesaid,
the ordinary liability of a common carrier of passengers for
-hire so as to render said railroad company liable as such to
said express messenger, notwithstanding the contracts aforesaid, for injuries he might sustain by reason of a collision between the train to which said express car is attached and
another train of said railroad company, caused by the negligence of employ~s of the railroad company?"
Mr. Edward Colston for plaintiff in error. .Mr. Judson
Harmon, Mr.A. W. Goldsmilh and Mr1. George Eoadly, Jr.,
were on his brief.
MAr. Charles X. i8t for defendant in error. Mr. Edgar TV.
CUit was on his brief.
ia. JUSTIcE SHn As, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The question we are asked to answer is, whether William
Voigt, the defendant in error, can avoid his agreement that
the railroad company should not be responsible to him for
injuries received while occupying an express car as a messenger, in the manner and circumstances heretofore stated, by

BALTIMORE & OHIO &c. RAILWAY v. VOIGT.

505

Opinion of the Court.

invoking that principle of public policy which has been held
to forbid a common carrier of passengers for hire to contract
against responsibility for negligence?
The Circuit Judge thought the case could not be distinguished from the case of Railroad Co. v. Lockwood, 17 Wall.
357, where a recovery was maintained by a drover injured
whilst travelling on a stock train of the New York Central
Railroad Company proceeding from Buffalo to Albany, on a
pass which certified that he had shipped sufficient stock to
give him a right to pass free to Albany, but which provided
that the acceptance of the pass was to be considered b waiver
of all claims for damages or injuries received on the train.
This court held that a drover travelling on a pass, for the purpose of taking care of his stock on the train, is a passenger
for hire, and that it is not lawful for a common carrier of such
passenger to stipulate for exemption from responsibility for
thd negligence of himself or his servants. This case has been
frequently followed, and it may be regarded as establishing a
settled rule of policy. Railway Co. v. Stevens, 95 U. S. 655;
-LiverpoolSteam Co. v. Phcenix 14. Co., 129 U. S. 397.
The principles declared in those cases are salutary, and we
have no disposition to depart from them. At the same time
it must not be forgotten that the right of private .contract is
no small part of the liberty of the citizen, and that the usual
and most important function of courts of justice is rather to
maintain and enforce contracts, than to enable parties thereto
to escape from their obligation on the pretext of public policy,
unless it clearly appear that they contravene public right or
the public welfare. It was well said by Sir George Jessel,'
M. R., in Printing&e. Co. v. Sampson, L R. 19 Eq. 465: "It
must not be forgotten that you are not to extend arbitrarily.
those rules which say that a given contract is void as being
against public policy, because if there is one thing which more
than another public policy requires it is that men of full age
and competent understanding shall have the utmost liberty of
contracting, and that their 'Contracts, when entered into freely
and voluntarily, shall be held sacred, and shall be enforced by
courts of justice. Therefore, you have this paramount public

OCTOBER TER , 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

policy to consider -that you are not lightly to interfere with
this freedom of contract."
Upon what principle, then, did the cases relied on proceed,
and are they applicable to the present one? They were
mainly two. First, the importance which the law justly
attaches to human life and personal safety, and which therefore forbids the relaxation of care in the transportation of
passengers which might be occasioned by stipulations relieving
the carrier from responsibility. This principle was thus stated
by Mr. Justice Bradley in the opinion of the court in the case
of Railroad Co. v. Lockwood: "In regulating the public
establishment of common carriers, the great object of the
law was to secure the utmost care and diligence in the performance of their important duties- an object essential to the
welfare of every civilized community. Hence the common law
rule which charged the common carrier as an insurer. Why
charge' him as such? Plainly for the purpose of raising the
most stringent motive for the exercise of carefulness and fidelity in his trust. In regard to passengers the highest degree
of carefulness and diligence is expressly exacted. In the one
case the securing of the most exact diligence and fidelity
.underlies the law, and is the reason for it; in the other, it is
directly and absolutely prescribed by the law. It is obvious,
therefore, that if a carrier stipulate not to be bound to the
exercise of care and diligence, but to be at liberty to indulge
in the contrary, he seeks to put aside the essential duties of
his employment. And to assert that he may do so seems
almost a contradiction in terms."
The second fundamental proposition relied on to nullify
contracts to relieve common carriers from liability for losses
or injuries caused by their negligence is based on the position
of advantage which is possessed by companies exercising the
business of common carriers over those who are compelled
to deal with them. And again we may properly quote a
passage from .the-opinion in the Lockwood case as a forcille
statement of the situation:
"The carrier and his customer do not stand on a footing
of equality. The latter is only one individual of a million.

BALTIMORE & 0HIO &c. RAILWAY v. VOIGT.

507

Opinion of the Court.

He cannot afford to higgle or stand out and seek redress'in
the courts. His business will not admit such a course. He
prefers, rather, to accept any bill of lading, or sign any paper
the carrier may present; often, indeed, without knowing what
the one or the other contains. In most cases he has no alternative but to do this, or abandon his business.

.

.

.

If

the customer had any real freedom of choice, if he had a
reasonable or practicable alternative, and if the employment
of the carrier were not a public one, charging him with the
duty of accommodating the public in the line of his employment, then, if the customer chose to assume the risk of negligence, it could with more reason be said to be his private
affair, and no concern of the public. But the condition of
things is entirely different, and especially so under the modified arrangements which the carrying trade has assumed.
The business is almost concentrated in a few powerful corporations, whose position in the body politic enables them
to control it. They do, in fact, control it, and impose such
conditions upon travel and transportation as they see fit,
which the public is compelled to accept. These circumstances furnish an additional argument, if any were needed,
to show that the conditions imposed by common carriers
ought not to be adverse, to say the least, to the dictates of
public policy and morality."
Upon these principles we think the law of to-day may be
fairly stated as follows: 1. That exemptions claimed by
carriers must be reasonable and just, otherwise they will be
regarded s extorted from the customers by duress of circumstances, and therefore not binding. 2. That all attempts
of carriers, by general notices or special contract, to escape
from liability for losses to shippers, or injuries to passengers,
resulting from want of care or faithfulness, cannot be regarded as reasonable and. just, but as contrary to a sound
public policy, and therefore invalid.
But are these principles, well considered and useful as they
are, decisive of, or indeed applicable to, the facts presented
for judgment in the present case?
We have here to consider not the case of an individual

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

shipper or passenger, dealing, at a disadvantage, with a
powerful corporation, but that of a permanent arrangement between two corporations embracing within its sphere
of operation a large part of the transportation business of
the entire country. We need not, in this inquiry, examine
the nature of the business of an express company, or rehearse the particular services it renders the public. That
has been done, sufficiently for our present purpose, in the
Express oases, 117 U. S. 1, and from the opinion in that

case we shall make some pertinent extracts:
"The express business has grown to an enormous size, and
is carried on all over the United States and in Canada, and
has been extended to Europe and the West Indies. It has
become a public necessity, and ranks in importance with the
mails and the telegraph. It employs for the purpose of
transportation all the important railroads in the United
States, and a new road is rarely opened to the public without being equipped in some form with express facilities. It
is used in almost every conceivable way, and for almost every
conceivable purpose, by the people and by the Government.
-All have become accustomed to it, and it cannot be taken
away without breaking up many of the long settled habits
of business, and interfering materially with the conveniences
of social life.
"When the business began, railroads were in their infancy.
They were few in number, and for comparatively- short distances. There has never been a time, however, since the
express business was started that it has not been encouraged
by the railroad companies, and it is no doubt true that no railroad company in the United States has ever refused to transport express matter for the public, upon the application of
some express company, of some form of legal constitution.
Every railway company has recognized the right of the public to demand transportation by the railway facilities which
the public has permitted to be created of that class of matter
which is known as express matter. Express" companies undoubtedly have invested their capital and built up their busi-

BALTIMORE & OHI0

&c. RAILWAY v. VOIGT.

509

Opinion of the Court.

ness in the hope and expectation of securing and keeping for
themselves such railway facilities as they needed, and railroad
companies have likewise relied upon the express business as
one of their important sources of income.
"But it is neither averred in the bills, nor shown by the
testimony, that any railroad company in the United States
has ever held itself out as a common carrier of express companies, that is to say, as a common carrier of common carriers.
On the contrary, it has been shown, and in fact it was conceded upon the argument, that, down to the time of bringing
these suits, no railroad company had taken an express company on its road for business except under some special contract, verbal or written,- and generally written, in which the
rights and duties of the respective parties were carefully fixed
and defined. These contracts, as is shown by those in this
record, vary necessarily in their details, according to the varying circumstances of each particular case, and according to
the judgment and discretion of the parties immediately concerned. It also appears that, with very few exceptions, only
one express company has been allowed by a railroad company
to do business on its road at the same time.
"The reason is obvious why special contracts in reference to
this business are necessary. The transportation required is of
a kind which must, if possible, be had for the most part on
passenger trains. It requires not only speed, but reasonable
certainty as to the quantity that will be carried at any one
time. As the things carried are to be kept in the personal
custody of* the messenger or other employ6 of the express
company, it is important that a certain amount of car space
should be specially set apart for the business, and that this
should, as far as practicable, be put in the exclusive possession
of the expressman in charge. As the business to be done is
'express,' it implies access to the train for loading at the
latest, and for unloading at the earliest, convenient moment.
All this is entirely inconsistent with the idea of an express
business on passenger trains free to all express carriers. Railroad companies are by law carriers of both persons and property.
Passenger trains have, from the beginning, been provided for

OCTOBER TERMV,

1899.

Opinion of the Court.

the transportation primarily of passengers and their baggage.
This must be done with reasonable promptness and with reasonable comfort to the passenger. The express business on
passenger trains is in a degree subordinate to the passenger
business, and it is consequently the duty of a railroad'company in arranging for the express to see that there is as little
interference as possible with the wants of the passengers.
This implies a special understanding and agreement as to the
amount of car space that will be afforded, and the conditions
on which it is to be occupie, the particular trains that can be
used, the planes at which they shall stop, the price to be paid,
and all the varying details of a business which is to be
adjusted between two public servants, so that each can perform in the best manner its own particular duties. All this
must necessarily be a matter of bargain, and it by no means
follows that, because a railroad company can serve one express
company in one way, it can as well serve another express compaby in the same way, and still perform its other obligations
to the public in a satisfactory manner. The car space that
can be given to the express business on a passenger train is, to
a certain extent, limited, and, as has been seen, that which is
allotted to a particular carrier must be, in a measure, under
his exclusive control. No express company can do a successful business unless it is at all times reasonably sure of the
means it requires for transportation. On important lines one
company will at times fill all the space the railroad company
can well allow for the business. .
"In this way three or four important and influential companies were able substantially to control, from 1851- until
about the time of the bringing of these suits, all the railway
express business in the United States, except upon the Pacific
roads and in certain comparatively limited localities. In fact,
as is stated in the argument for the express companies, the
Adams was occupying, when these suits were brought, one
hundred 'and . fifty-five railroads, with a mileage of 21,216
miles; the American, two hundred roads, with a mileage of
28,000 miles; and the Southern, ninety-five roads, with a mileage of 10,000 miles. Through their business arrangements

BALTIMORE & OHIO &c. RAILWAY v. VOIGT.

511

Opinion of the Court.

with each other, and with other connecting lines, they have
been able for a long time to receive and contract for the deliv-,
ery of any package committed to their charge at almost any
place of importance in the United States and in Canada, and
even at some places in Europe and the -West Indies. They
have invested millions of dollars in their business, and have
secured public confidence to such a degree that they are
trusted unhesitatingly by all who need their services. The
good will of their business is of very great value if they can
keep their present facilities for transportation. The longer
their lines and the more favorable their connections, the
greater will be their own profits, and the better their means
of seiving the public. In making their investments and in
extending their business they have undoubtedly relied on
securing and keeping favorable railroad transportation, and
in this they were encouraged by the apparent willingness
of railroad companies to accommodate them; but the fact
still remains that they have never been allowed to do business
on any road except under a special contract, and that as a rule
only one express company has been admitted on a road at the
same time."
The cases in which the opinion from which the foregoing
extracts are taken were suits brought by certain express companies which had been doing business on certain railroads,'
under special contracts between the respective companies, to
compel the railroad companies to permit them to continue
business on the roads on terms to be fixed by the courts; in
other words, to demand as a right what they had theretofore
enjoyed by permission of special contracts. This the court
declined to do, and directed the bills to be dismissed.
Our citations have been intended partly to disclose, in a succinct form, the nature of the express business, but more particularly to show that, in essence, the express business is one
that reqnires the participation of both the companies on terms
agreed upon in special contracts, thus creating, to a certain
extent, a sort of partnership relation between them in carrying
on a common carrier business.
We are not furnished in this record with an entire copy of

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the contract between the plaintiff in error, The Baltimore and
Ohio Southwestern Railway Company, and The United States
Express Company, but it issufficiently disclosed in the statement made by the Judges of the Circuit Court of Appeals, that
the companies were doing an express business together as common carriers under an agreement entered into on March 1, 1895;
that by said contract it was agreed that the railway company
would furnish, on its line between Cincinnati and St. Louis,
for the express company, cars adapted to the carriage of express matter over said line; that one or more -employ6s of
said express company should accompany said goods in said
cars over the said line, and for such purpose should be transported in said cars, free of charge; that the express company
should protect the railway company and hold it harmless
from all liability for injuries sustained by the employ~s of
the express company while being transported for.the said purpose over the railroad; that Voigt, the defendant in error, had
agreed in writing to indemnify the express company against
any liability it might incur by reason of said agreement between the companies, so far as he was concerned, and further
agreed to release the railroad company from liability for injuries received by him while being. transported in the express
cars; that, in consideration of such agreement on his part,
Voigt was employed as an express messenger, and while so
employed, and while occupying as such messenger a car assigned to the express company, received injuries occasioned
by a collision, on December 30, 1895, between the train which
was transporting the express car and another train belonging
to the same railroad company.
It is evident that, by these agreements, there was created a
very different relation between Voigt and the railway company than the usual one between passengers and railroad companies. Here there was no stress brought to bear on Yoigt as
a passenger desiring transportation from one point to another
on the railroad. His occupation of the car, specially adapted
to the 'uses of the e±press company, was not in pursuance of
any contract directly between him and the railroad company,
but was an incident of his permanent employment by the ex-

OBALTIMORE & OHIO &c. RAILWAY v. VOIGT.

513

Opinion of the Court.

press company. He was on the train, not by virttLe of any
personal contract right, but because of a contract between the
companies for the exclusive use of a car. His contract to relieve the companies from any liability to him, or to each other,
for injuries he might receive in the course of his employment,
was deliberately entered into as a condition of securing his
position as a messenger. His position does not resemble the
one in consideration in the Lockwood and similar cases, where
the dispensation from liability for injuries was made a condition of a transportation which the passenger had a right to
demand, and which the railroad companies were under a legal
duty to furnish. Doubtless, had Voigt only desired the method
of transportation afforded the ordinary passenger, he would
have been entitled to the rule established for the benefit of.
such a passenger. But this -he did not desire. He was not
asking to be carried from Cin6innati to . St. Louis, but was
occupying the express car as part of his regular employment,
and as provided in a contract which, as we have seen, the railroad company was under no local compulsion to enter into.
The relation of an express messenger to, the transportation
company, in cases like the present one, seems to us to more
nearly resemble that of an employ6 than that of a passenger.
His position is one created by an agreement between the express company and the railroad company, adjusting the terms
of a joint business -the transportation and delivery of express
matter. His duties of personal control and custody of the
goods and packages, if not performed by an express messenger,
would have to be performed by one in the immediate service
of the railroad company. And, of course, if his position was
that of a common employ6 of both companies, he could not
recover for injuries caused, as would appear to have been the
present case, by the negligence of fellow-servants.
However this may be, it is manifest that the relation existing between express messengers and trans 'ortation companies,
under such contracts as existed in the present case, is widely
different from that of ordinary passengers, and that to relieve
the defendant in error from the obligation of his contract
would re4uire us to give a much wider extension of the docVOL. crxxvi-83

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

trine of public policy than was justified by the facts and
reasoning in the Lockwood case.
This subject has received attentive consideration in several
of the state courts.
In Bates v. Old Colony Railroad,147 Mass* 255; it was held
that if an express messenger holding a season ticket from a
railroad company and desiring to ride for the conduct of his
business in a baggage car, agrees to assume all risk of injury
therefrom, and to hold the company harmless therefor, the
agreement is not invalid as against public policy, and he cannot recover for injuries caused by negligence of the company's
servants. In its opinion the court said:
"The question of a right of carriers to limit their liability
for negligence in the discharge of their duties as carriers by
contract with their customers or passengers in regard to such
duties does not arise under the contract as construed in this
case. See Railroad Co. v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357; Griswold
v. -New York c New England Railroad, 53 Conn. 371. It
was not a contract for carriage over the road, but for the use
of a particular car. The consideration of the plaintiff's agreement was not the performance of anything by the defendant
which it was under any obligation to do, or which the plaintiff
had any right to have done. It was a privilege granted to the
plaintiff. The plaintiff was not compelled to enter into the
contract in order to obtain the rights of a passenger. Having
these rights, he sought something more.

.

.

.

The fact

that the plaintiff was riding in the baggage car as an express
messenger in charge of merchandise which was being transported there, shows more clearly that the contract by the
express company and the plaintiff was not unreasonable or
against public policy. He was there as a servant engaged
with the servants of the railroad company in the service of
transportation on the road. His duties were substantially
the same as those of the baggage-master in the same car; the
latter relating to merchandise carried for passengers, and the
'former to merchandise carried for the express company. His
actual relations to the other servants of the railroad corporation
engaged in the transportation were substantially the same as

BALTIMORE & OHIO &c. RAILWAY v. VOIGT.

515

Opinion of the Court.

those of the baggage-master, and would have been the same
had he been paid by the corporation instead of by the express
company. Had the railroad done the express business, the
messenger would have* been held by law to have assumed the
risk of the negligence of the servants of the railroad. It does
not seem that a contract between the express company and the
plaintiff on the one hand, and the defendant on the other, that
the express messenger in performing his duties should take the
same risk of injury from the negligence of the servants of the
railroad engaged in the transportation that he would take if
employed by the railroad to perform the same duties, would
be void as unreasonable or as against public policy."
The same ruling prevailed in the subsequent case of ifosmer
v. Old Colony Raitroad,156 'Mass. 506.
Robertson v. Old Colony Railroad, 156 Mass. 526, was an
action brought for personal injuries caused to the plaintiff, an
employ6 of the proprietors of a circus, while riding in a car
belonging to the proprietors, drawn by the defendant company
over its road under a written agreement, in which it was provided that the circus company should agree to exonerate and
save harmless the defendant from any and all claims for damages to persons or property during the transportation, however
occurring, and it was held that, as the defendant company was
under no common law or statutory obligation to carry the
plaintiff in the manner he was carried at the time of the accident, it did not stand towards him in the relation of a common
carrier, and that the plaintiff could not recover.
Griswold v. New York O NYew England Railroad,53 Conn.
371, where a restaurant keeper had the privilege to sell fruits
ansi sandwiches on the trains and to engage and keep a servant
for that purpose on the trains, riding on a free pass, it was held
that such servant could not recover for injuries sustained on
the .train caused by the negligence of the company's servants,
because he was not a passenger.
The Supreme Court of Michigan, in coup v. Wabash, St.
Loui8 &e.Railway Co., 56 Michigan, 111, where a railroad
company, under a special agreement, was to furnish men and
motive power to transport a circus of the plaintiff from Cairo

OCTOBER TERMyT, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

to Detroit on cars belonging to the plaintiff, stopping at certain named points for exhibition, the plaintiff paying a fixed
price therefor, held, that such transportation was not a transaction with a common carrier as such; that the contract was

valid, and that the railway company was not liable for injury
due to negligence.
Where. a railroad company made a special contract in writing with the owner of. a circus to haul a special train between
certain points, at specified prices, and stipulating that the railroad compay should not be liable for any damage to the persons or property of the circus company from whatever cause,
it was held by the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Seventh
Circuit, citing, Coup v. Railroad Co., 56 Michigan, 111, and
Robertson v. Old Colony Railroad,156 Mass. 506, that the railroad company was not acting as a common carrier, and was
not liable under the contract for injuries occasioned by negligent management of its trains. In its opinion the court
quoted the following passage from Railroad Co. v. Lockwood:
"A common cirrier may undoubtedly become a private carrier or bailee for hire when, as a matter of accommodation or
special engagement, he undertakes to carry something which
it is not his business to carry.' Chicago, itilwaukee & St.
Paul Railroadv. Wallace, 24 U. S. App. 589.
Louisville, .New Albany & Chicago Railway v. Keefer, 146
Indiana, 21, 34, was a case in all respects like the present. It
was a suit by a messenger'of the American Express Company
against the railroad company for personal injuries. The contracts between the express company, the messenger and the
railroad company were in terms similar to those existing in
the present case, and the defence was the same as that made
here. it was held that the contracts were valid and that the
defence was good. It was said:
"Under the doctrine declared in the Express cases, 117
U. S. 1, the property was being carried by appellant, not as a
common carrier in the performance of a public duty, but being
carried; with a messenger in charge, as a private carrier, the
right to have it and him carried having first been secured to
the express company by private contract, the only way known

BALTIMORE & OHIO &c. RAILWAY v. VOIGT.

517

Opinion of the Court.

to the law by which the right, either as to the goods or appellee as messenger in charge, could be acquired.
"Appellee, when he went on the appellant's train and took
charge of the express packages in the baggage car, did not go
as a passenger who merely desired to be carried on the train
from one point to another. Carriage was not the object of his
going upon the train; that was merely incidental. His purpose was not to be upon the train, in cars provided for passengers, but that he might handle and care for the property of
his employer thereon, in the space set apart in the baggage
car for that purpose. Under the authorities cited it was not
the duty of appellant, as a common carrier, to carry for the
express company the goods or messenger in charge of them.
The contract between appellant and the express company gave
if and its messenger rights which appellant as a common carrier could not have been compelled to grant."
By the Supreme Court of Indiana, in Pitt8urgh,Cincinnati
&o. Railway v. .Mahoney, 148 Indiana, 196, it was held that
railway companies may contract as private carriers in transporting express matter for express companies, and in such
capacity may require exemption from-liability for negligence
as a condition to the obligation to carry, ind that a release
by an employ6 of an express company of all liability for injuries sustained by the negligence of the employ6 or otherwise includes the liability of the express company to hold a
railroad company, with which it does business, harmless against
claims by employ~s of the express company for injuries, and
precludes an action against the railroad company for causing
his death while in discharge of his duty as employ6 of such
express company.
A precisely similar question was presented in the case of
Blank v. Illinois Central Company, and was decided the same
way, by the Appellate Court for the First District of Illinois,
in an opinion rendered March 14, 1899. 80 Ill. App. 475.
The court cites the .Axpres.s cases, and approves and applies the
reasoning in the Indiana cases; and this judgment has been
affirmed by the Supreme Court of Illinois. 182 Illinois, 332.
The same doctrine prevails in the State of ew York. Bis-

OCTOBER TERI1, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

N. Y. 442; Poucher
v. New York Central Railroad, 49 N. Y. 263. Though it
must be allowed that the New York decisions are not pre-.
cisely in point, as those courts do not accept the doctrine of
Railroad Co. v. Lockwood to its full extent, but hold that no
rule of public policy forbids contractual exemption from liability, because the public is amply protected by the right of
every one to decline any special contract, on, paying the regular fare prescribed by law, that is, the highest amount which
the law allows the company to charge.
As against these authorities there are cited, on behalf of the
defendant in error, several cases in which it has been held that
postal clerks, in the employ of the Government, and who pay
no fare, are entitled to the rights of ordinary passengers for
hire; and it is contended that their relation to the railropd
company is analogous to that of express messengers. Arrowsmith v. Nashville &f -DecaturRailroad,57 Fed. Rep. 165;
Gleeson v. Virginia Mlidland Railroad, 140 U. S. 435;
.Ketcham v. New Y-ork, Lake Erie c. Railroad, 133 Indiana, 346; Seybolt v. Railroad Co., 95 N. Y. 562.
There is, however, an obvious distinction between a postal
clerk and the present case of an express messenger in this, that
the messenger has agreed to the contract between the express
and the railroad companies, exempting the latter from liability,
but no case is cited in which the postal clerk voluntarily entered
into such an agreement. To make the cases analogous it should
be made to appear that the Government, in contracting with
the railroad company to carry the mails, stipulated that the
railroad company should be exempted from liability to the
postal clerk, and that the latter, in consideration -of securing
his position, had *concurred in releasing the railroad company.
Brewer v. New York, Lake Erie & Western Railroad,124
N. Y. 59, ia also cited as a case wherein a recovery was maintained by an express messenger against a railroad company,
and* where there existed an agreement between the express
company and the railroad company that tie latter*should be
indemnified and protected against all risks and liabilities.
fBut the court put its judgment against the railroad company
8ell v. New York Central Railroad, 25

BALTINIORE & OHIO &c. RAILWAY v. VOIGT.

519

Opinion of the Court.

expressly upon the ground that the messenger had no knowledge or information of the contract between the companies,
and was not himself a party to the agreement to exempt the
railroad company.
.enney v. 37. Y. Cent. &o. Railroad, 125 N. Y. 422, was
also a case where, in an action for damages by an express
messenger against a railroad company, the plaintiff was permitted to recover, notwithstanding there was an agreement
between the companies that the railroad company should be
released and indemnified for any damage done to the agents
of th6 express company, whether in their employ as messengers or otherwise. But it did not appear that there had been
any assent to or knowledge of this contract on the part of the
messenger; and the court said:
"Our decision, however, is placed upon the ground that this
contract does not, in unmistakable language, provide for an
exemption from liability for the negligence of the defendant's
employ~s. The rule is firmly established in this State that a
common carrier may contract for immunity from its negligence or that of its agents; but that to accomplish that object
the contract must be so expressed and not be left to -a presumption from the language. Considerations base d upon public policy and the nature of the carrier's undertaking influence
the application of the rule, and forbid its operation except when.
the carrier's immunity from .the consequences of negligence is
read in the agreement ipsisimis .verbiS."

CMamberlain v. Pierson,59 U. S. App. 55, 64, in the Circuit
Court of Appeals of the Fourth Circuit, was a case in which
an express messenger was injured while travelling on a railroad which had a contract with the express company, exonerating the foreman from responsibility for injuries to the
agents of the latter, and in which said agreement was ineffectually pleaded in bar of the action. The court said:
"The discussion of this feature of the case presents this
question: Was the plaintiff below, as a messenger of the
express company, bound by the contract between thg railroad company and the express company to assume all risks
to life and limb to which he was exposed in performing his

OCTOBER TEIA.M, 1899,
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

duties on the train as an express messenger? He was not a
party to theicontract, never ratified it, and in his testimony,
when asked if he knew of this provision of the contract,
answered, 'If I had known that I wouldn't have gone.'"
Without enumerating and appraising all the cases respectively cited, our conclusion is that Voigt, occupying an express
car as a messenger in charge of express matter, in pursuance
of the contract between the rompanies, was not a passenger
within the meaning of the case of Railroad Company v. Zockwood; that he was not constrained to enter into the contract
whereby the railroad company was exonerated from liability
to him, but entered into the same freely and voluntarily, and
obtained the benefit of it by securing his appointment as such
messenger, and that such a contract did not contravene public
policy. Accordingly,
Me answer the question submitted to us by the judges of the
Circuit Court of Appeals in the negative; and it is so
ordered
MRa. J[usTion

HAP.r;

dissenting.

In RailroadCo. v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357, 384, it was held
that a "common carrier cannot lawfully stipulate for exemption from respQnsibility when such.exemption is not just and
reasonable ,in the eye of the law;" that "it is not just and
reasonable in the eye o the law for a common carrier to stipulate for exemption from responsibility for the negligence of himself or his servants " that "these rules apply both to carriers
of goods and carriers of passengers for hire, and with special
force to the.latter;" and that "a drover travelling on a pass,
such as was given in this case, is a passenger for hire." The
railroad pass referred to declared that its acceptance was to
be consictered a waiver bf all claims for damages or injuries
received on the train. The above principles have been recognized and enforced by this court in numerous cases.
I am of opinion that the present case is within the doctrines
of Railroad Co. v. Lockwood, and that the judgment should
be affirmed upon the broad ground that the defendant corpora-

MATTESON v. DENT.
Statement of the Case.

tion could not, in any form, stipulate for exemption from
responsibilty for the negligence of its servants or employ~s
in the course of its business whereby injury comes to any
person using its cars, with its consent; for purposes of transportation. That the person transported is not technically a
passenger and does not ride in a car ordinarily used for passengers is immaterial.

MATTESON v. DENT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MI1EESOTA.
No. 124. Submitted January 29, 1900. -Decided February 26, 1900.

As a general iule, the legal owner of stock in a national banking association -that is, the one in whose name stock stands on the books of the
association -remains liable for an assessment so long as the stock is
allowed to stand in his name on the books, and, consequently, although
the registered owner may have made a transfer to another person, unless
it has been accompanied by a transfer on the books of registry of the
association, such registered owner remains liable for contributions in
case of the insolvency of the bank.
The exceptions to this general rule so far as established by decisions of this
court are: (1) That where a transfer has been fraudulently or collusiveli
made to avoid an obligation to pay assessments, such transfer will be disregarded, and the real owner be held liable; (2) That where a transfer
of stock is made and delivered to officers of a bank, and such officials fail
to make entry of It, those acts will operate a transfer on the books, and
extinguish the liability, as stockholder, of the transferrer; (3) Where
stock was transferred in pledge, and the pledgee for the purpose of protecting his contract caused the stock to be put In his name as pledgee,
and a registry did not amount to a transfer to the pledgee as owner.

ON October 31, 1864, Sumner W. Matteson became the
owner of ten shares of capital stock of the First National
Bank of Decorah, established in the city of Decorah, State of
Iowa, and the shares were duly registered on the books of
the bank in his name. In July, 1895, Matteson, whilst the
stock was yet owned by him and still stood registered in his
name, died intestate at St. Paul, Minnesota, where he resided,

