OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD COM-PANY '.
CHICAGO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
lo. 114. Argued January 24, 25, 1900.-Decided March 12, 1900.
The charter of the Illinois Central Railroad Company authorized it to "enter
upon and talie possession of and use all and singular any lands, streams
and materials of every kind for the location of depots and stopping stages
for the . . . complete operation of said road; " and granted to It
"all such lands, waters, materials and privileges belonging to the State."
A subsequent ordinance of the city of Chicago, passed in pursuance of
authority granted by the legislature, forbade the driving or placing of
any piles, stone, timbers or other obstruction In the harbor of the city,
without the permission of the commissioner of public works. Held:
that a Federal question was presented whether this ordinance impaired
or interfered with the charter of the railroad company.
Held further, that, under its charter, the railroad company had no right to
take possession of lands submerged beneath the waters of Lake Michigan. Held, also, that the "waters" granted to the railroad company In
the second part of the granting clause, were restricted to the "streams"
mentioned in the first part, and did not include the waters of Lake
Michigan.
Under another section of the charter, providing that the corporation should
not locate its track within any city without the consent of the common
council, held, that this proviso was not confined to the main track of
the road, but included its depots, engine houses and necessary track
approaches to the same.
This restriction *as not limited to the city as bounded at the date of the
charter, but applied also to territory subsequently included within the
city limits.

THIS was a bill in equity instituted by the Illinois Central
Railroad Company in the Superior Court of Cook County,
to obtain an injunction restraining the city of Chicago from
interfering with the exercise of the right of the railroad
company to fill in, for railroad purposes, certain lands submerged by the shallow waters of Lake Michigan in front
of property owned by the railroad company, in fee, and
situated between Twonty-fifth and Twenty-seventh streets
'in said city. The purpose of the railroad company in
reclaiming the land was to erect thereon an engine house
and locomotive stalls necessary to the operation of the road.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v: CHICAGO.

647

Statement of the Case.
The case was heard upon bill, answer, cross bill and demurrer to cross bill, in which were set forth substantially tho.
following facts, as recited . in the opinion of the Supreme
Court, 173 Illinois, 471:
By an act of Congress approved September 20, 1850, 9
Stat. 466, c. 61, "the right of way through the public lands
was granted to .the State of Illinois for the construction of
the railroad from the southern terminus of the Illinois and
Michigan Canal to a point at or near the junction of the
Ohio and Mississippi rivers, with a branch of the same to
Chicago, on Lake Michigan, and another via the town of
Galena, in said State, to Dubuque, in the State of Iowa,
with the right, also, to take the necessary lands, waters and
materials of earth, stones, timber, etc., for the construction"
of the railroad. The act also granted to the State of Illinois,
for the purpose of aiding and making the railroad and
branches above named, every alternate section of land
designated by even numbers, for six sections in width, on
each side of the railroad and branches' By the act it was
further provided that the railroad and branches should be
and forever remain a public highway for the use, of the
Government of he United States, free from toll or other
charge upon the transportation of any property or troops
of the United States.
The company was created, organized under and-now exists,
by virtue of an act of the legislature ,of the State of Illinois
approved February 10, 1851, entitled "An act to incorporate
the Illinois Central Railroad Company," Private Laws of
1851, p. 61, and by its charter it wds authorized to survey,
locate, construct, complete, alter, maintain and operate a
railroad, with one or more tracks or lines of rail, from thesouthern terminus of the Illinois and Michigan Canal, to a
point at or near the junction of the Ohio and Mississippi
rivers, with a branch of the same into Chicago, on Lake
Michigan, and also a branch via the city of Galena to a
point on the Mississippi River opposite the town of Dubuque,
in the State of Iowa: By section 3 of its charter it was
provided'as follows: "The said corporation shall have riglht

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

of way upon, and may appropriate to its sole use and
control for the purposes contemplated herein, land not
exceeding 200 feet in width through its entire length; may
enter upon and take possession of and use all and singular
any lands, streams and materials of every kind, for the
location of depots and stopping stages, for the purpose of
constructing bridges, dams, embankments, excavations, station
grounds, spoil banks, turnouts, engine houses, shops and
other buildings necessary for the construction, completing,
altering, maintaining, .preserving and complete operation of
said road. All such lands, waters, materials and privileges
belonging to the State are hereby granted to said corporation for said purposes; but when owned or belonging to
any person, company or corporation, and cannot be obtained
by voluntary grant or release, the same may be taken and
paid for, if any damages are awarded, in the manner
provided in 'An act to provide for a general system of
railroad incorporation,' approved November 5, 1849, and
the final decision or award shall vest in the corporation
hereby created all the rights, franchises and immunities
. Provided,
in said act contemplated and provided;
that nothing in this section contained shall be so construed
as to authorize the said corporation to interrupt the navigation of said streams."
The bill. also avers that the company constructed its line
of railroad within the then limits of the city of Chicago in
the year 1852, and. completed its railroad between the termini
named in its charter, in the State of Illinois, in the year 1857;
that the total number of miles of its railroad in the State,
upon completion, was 706; that at the time of the construction of its railroad, in 1852, into the city of Chicago, the
southern limits and boundary of the city extended only to
Twenty-second street; that in 1852 it constructed its line of
railroad immediately along the shore and partly over the
shallow waters of Lake Michigan from Fifty-first street to
Twenty-second street, then the southern boundary of the
city, and that its railroad was constructed into the city of
Chicago through the waters of Lake Michigan, pursuant to an

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. CHICAGO.

649

Statement of the Case.

ordinance of the city; that its railroad within the limits of
the city was constructed on piling set in the open waters of
Lake Michigan east of the shore; that between Park Row
and Randolph street the distances in a direct east and west
line between the shore line and the inner or west line of the
piling on which the railroad of the company was constructed
through the open waters of Lake Michigan varied from 5
feet at Park Row to 310 feet at Madison street, and that
the depth of the water along the line of piling between the
points above named varied from 21 to 91 feet; that the company now owns or controls by lease, and is now operating
under one management, the whole of the trunk line as one
continuous line from New Orleans, through the States of
Louisiana, Mississippi, Tennessee, Xentucky and Illinois, into
the city of Chicago; that it controls, by lease or otherwise,
under the same mabagement, many other lateral lines in the
States above named, and also in the States of Wisconsin, Iowa,
Minnesota and Dakota, which connect with and are tributary
to the parent line of the company; that' the number of miles
now owned or controlled by the company under one manage-

ment exceeds 4600.
It is further alleged in the bill that the city of Chicago is
the business centre of the various lines which constitute the
system owned by the company; that the business carried on
over the terminal tracks and facilities of the company within
the present limits of the city of Chicago is so great and so
constantly increasing that the whole of its right of way. and
lands contiguous thereto, within said limits, are used to their
utmost capacity as yards, sh6ps, depot grounds, side tracks,
switching tracks, storage tracks, delivery tracks, team. tracks
and other structures, all of which are absolutely necessary as
terminal facilitids to enable the company to cariy on and
conduct its business as a common carrier of freight and passengers, and that all the tracks, structures and appliances of
its terminal facilities are necessary and essential to enable the
company to carry on its business; that the business of the
company as a common carrier greatly increases from year to
year, and that it has so continued to increase that its terminal

OCTOBER TERM, 1809.
Statement of the Case.

facilities in the city are not wholly adequate for the purposes
and uses prescribed and intended by its charter. The bill
Sts out in detail its business and its increase from year to
year, and alleges that its terminal facilities in the city of
Chicago have been found to be wholly inadequate. to enable
the company to carry on its business; that in order to meet

the increased business necessities and requirements of the
company it is absolutely necessary that the company should
construct, operate and use an engine house 316 feet in diameter, and containing forty stalls, together with a machine
shop, turn table, coal chute and other structures,; that it has
no engine hb6use whatever at which it is practicable for its
engines to be.overhauled and fitted for operation ; that it has
no land whatever. uneccupied by other necessary tracks and
structures, which is either sufficient in dimensions or suitably
located, upon which to locate and construct an engine house
of the necessary dimensions and capacity, with the necessary
-appurtenances thereto, required 4nd necessary forthe business
of the company, and that in order to build such engine house
and.the appurtenances it is necessary to construct the same
upon land. covered by the shallofv waters of Lake Michigan,
at a point between Fifty-first street and Eighteenth street.
It is also set up in the bill that, in 1852, at the time of the
construction .ofthe road within the city- of Chicago, it purchased certain lands lying between Twenty-fifth and Twenty.seventh streets, bordering on the shore of Lake Michigan;
that in the deeds the shore of Lake Michigan was designated as the east boundary line thereof, and that the con.panty, as owner, was vested with all the ripaiian rights and
privileges incident to the ownership in fee of the shore land ;
that in the year 1882 it constructed a breakwater or bulkhead
in the shallow waters of Lake Michigan, the same being located and constructed in front of the land which the company
purchased -in 1852, above referred to, the east and west line
of the breakwater on th north extending from a point on
the shore continuous with the northern boundary of the land
-conveyed to the company in 1852, and extending to a point
200 feet easterly from the shore line, running thence southerly

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v: CHICAGO.

651

Statement of the Case.

a distance of 781 feet, and thence westerly to the shore line,
a distance of -325 feet; that the breakwater built by the company in 1882 was constructed on two rows of piling driven
into the bed of Lake Michigan, and the space between the
rows of piling was filled in with stone, in order to strengthen
the breakwater and enable it to withstand the force of Lake
Michigan during periods of storm; that all the shore land
embraced within the lines of the breakwater now is, and ever
since the year'1852 has been, owned in fee simple by the
company, and that it is entitled to all the riparian rights and
privileges incident to the ownership in fee of the shore land;
that the superficial area of the land covered by the shallow
waters of Lake Michigan lying within the lines of the breakwater and the shore line of Lake Michigan is 195,200 square
feet, or 4.48 acres; that the superficial area of the ground
necessary for the construction of the engine house, machine
shop, coal chute and other necessary structures appurtenant
thereto is 168,426.9 square feet, or 3.86 acres.
The bill further states that in the year 1894 a part of the
breakwater referred to as having been constructed by it in
the year 1882 was destroyed by a storm on Lake Michigan;
that it being necessary, to enable the company .to carry on
and conduct its business, that an engine house of sufficient
capacity to meet its necessary requirements and demands in.
conducting its business and to accomplish the objects for
which the company was chartered, be constructed and erected
at a reasonably suitable and proper location, and it being
necessary that such engind house should be erected and constructed upon the lands submerged by the shallow waters
of Lake Michigan lying in front of land on the shore of Lake
Michigan owned in fee simple by the company, the company
caused plans to be made, as before stated, for an engine house
316 feet-in diameter, and containing forty stalls or compartments, and under the power, authority and right given and
vested in the company by its charter, and in the exercise of
its rights as riparian owner, it elected and determined to locate
and construct said engine house on land submerged by the
shallow waters of Lake Michigan lying within the limits of

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

the breakwater, and to repair the breakwater and fill in the
submerged lands lying within the limits of the breakwater,
for the purpose of constructing thereon said engine house and
the necessary appurtenances thereto; that the breakwater
does not in any way interfere with the navigation of Lake
Michigan; that the Secretary of War gave his consent to the
rep~iir of the breakwater; that the commissioner of public
works of the city of Chicago also gave his consent to the repair; that the company'placed upon the ground large quantities of material for repairing the breakwater, the filling in of
the lands covered by the shallow waters of Lake Michigan
embraced within the lines thereof, and for the construction
of the engine house and appurtenances thereto on the lands
to be filled in ; that it repaired the breakwater by driving two
rows of piling, and filled in a large part of the space between
the exterior and interior line of piling with stone, for the
purpose of enabling the breakwater to withstand the force of
Lake Michigan; that the company was prevented by the
police force of the city of Chicago, acting under the orders and
direction of the mayor, from completing the work; that the
city of Chicago, without right or authority, interferes with
and prevents the company from filling in the lands within the
lines of such breakwater.
The answer of the city set up its charter and authority
under an act of the General Assembly of the State of Illinois,
entitled "An act to, provide for the incorporation of cities and
villages (approved April 10, 1872, in force July 1, 1872)," and
the several acts amendatory thereof Eind supplementary thereto,
and that, among other things, it was "empowered to regulate
and control the use of public landing places for docks and
levees ; to control and regulate the anchorage, moorage and
landing of all water crafts and their cargoes; to make regulations in regard to the use of harbors, and to appoint harbor
masters and define their duties, and that in the exercise of
such power this defendant has, through its police power, prevented the said complainant hitherto from filling up the said
lake and intruding upon the navigable waters thereof, and
that all the acts and doings complained of as done and per-

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. CHICAGO.

653

Opinion of the Court.

formed by this defendant, its officers, agents and employ6s,
have been done strictly in the line of its duty in that behalf
for .the purpose of protecting its own rights and the rights
of the public generally, in the premises, so as to prevent
obstructions in the harbor and the seizure and appropriation by
the complainant of the bed and navigable waters of. the said
lake ;" and also pleaded the decision of this court in Illinois
Central Railroad Co. v. Illinois, 146 U. S. 887, as res judicata
of all the questions ii controversy. The cross bill prayed a
counter injunction against any interference by the railroad
company.
Upon a hearing upon these pleadings the Superior Court
denied the injunction demanded by the railroad company and
dismissed its bill. On appeal the Supreme Court affirmed this
decree. 173 Illinois, 471. Whereupon the railroad company
sued out a writ of error from this court.
.Mr. Williavn. D. Guthrie for plaintiff in error. -Mr. Benjamin F. Ayer and -Mr.James Fentress were on his brief.
.ME". Grahville TF.Browning for defendant in error.
Charles X lalker was on his brief.

.MEr.

Mn. JusTion, BROwN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The Supreme Court of Illinois disposed of this case upon
two grounds: (1) That the power given by the charter of the
Illinois Central Railroad Company of February 10, 1851, to
"enter upon and take possession of and use all and singular any
lands, streams and materials of every kind, for the location of
depots and stopping stages for the . . . complete operation of said road," and the grant to said corporation of "all
such lands, waters, materials and privileges belonging to the
State," did not include lands covered by the waters of Lake
Michigan. (2) That, even if the grant were broad enough to
include the waters of the lake, it did not follow that the railroad company would have the-right, at any time it might see
proper, to take and appropriate to itself any of the lands coy-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

ered by such waters, provided only that the navigation of the
lake was not interferred with.
1. The ultimate jurisdiction of this court is invoked by the
allegation of the bill that the above provision of the railway's
charter was and is an irrevocable contract between the State
of Illinois and the complainant, conferring upon it "a vested
and 'continuing right to use the shallow waters' and submerged
lands of Lake Michigan for such purposes, when such use is
reasonably necessary for the business of your orator; provided,
that the same does not interfere with the navigation of the
lake, having reference to the manner in which commerce is conducted thereon" ; and that "any law of the State of Illinois,
or any judgment, decree or decision of any court or tribunal
thereof, which denies or in any way impairs its right to use
the submerged land of Lake Michigan for the purpose of constructing and using engine houses, shops and other buildings
thereon, etc., impairs the obligation of the contract created by
said charter," etc.
The answer of the city. avers that, under an'act of the General Assembly of the State, approved April 10, 1872, it was
empowered "to iegulate and control the use of public landing
places for docks and levees; to control and regulate the anchorage, moorage and landing of all water crafts and their cargoes;
to make regulations in regard to the use of harbors, and to
appoint harbor masters and define their duties, and that in the
exercise of such power this defendant has, through its police
power, prevented the said complainant hitherto from filling up
the said lake and intruding upon the navigable waters thereof;"
and that the city was also empowered to regulate its police, and
pass and enforce all necessary police ordinances; and that in
pursuance of this authority the city council made and established an ordinance (93) that "no person or persons shall drive
or place or cause to be driven or placed any pile or piles, stone,
timbers earth or other obstruction in the harbor of the city
without the permission of the commissioner of public works,"
etc.
This was the only authority claimed in the answer, but as
all this legislation was'subsequent to the charter of the railroad

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. CHICAGO.

655

Opinion of the Court.
company, the city now sets up in support of its motion to dismiss for want of a Federal'question that it was provided in
section eight of the railroad's charter of 1851, that "nothing in
this act contained shall authorize said corporation to make a
location of their track within any city, without the consent of
the common council of such city," and that this section operates as a restriction upon the power of the railroad to locate
its track, or other structures, depots, engine houses or otherwise, over any lands contiguous to'the city under Lake Michigan, or any other public property over which the police power
of the city extends.
It is also insisted that the city had, in 185i, even greater.
powers over the submerged lands on its lake front under its
charter than it has now; but the only support for this contention lies in an amended charter of the city of Chicago, passed
February 14, 1851, four days after the charter of the Illinois
Central Railroad Company was adopted. As this was a subsequent act, it is impossible to argue from it that.the police
power of the city at the date of the charter was as ample as
that conferred by the act of April 10, 1872, set up in the
answer. The extract to which attention is called by counsel,
from the opinion of the Supreme Court of Illinois in illinoi8
Central Railroad v. Rucker, 14 Illinois, 353, 356, to the effect
that under the charter of the city of Chicago the common council was empowered to regulate, control and protect the bed
and waters of the lake as a part of the city of Chicago, may
have been, and probably was, based upon the act of February
14, 1851, and, in any event, is too indefinite to be made the
basis of any adjudication as to the power of the common
council.
We have examined the first charter of the city of Chicago,
adopted March 14,1837, and the amendments thereto, down to
the charter of February 14, 1851, and find nothing prior to the
last-mentioned date defining the powers of the common council
over the waters of Lake Michigan adjacent to the city, or anything from which it can be argued that the authority of the
common council, with respect to the harbor and adjacent
waters, was as ample as that conferred by the acts of the Gen-

OCTOBER TERIM, 1899.
Opiniou of the Court.

eral Assembly subsequent to the chartering of the railroad
company.
The question then is reduced to this: Giving to the charter
of the railroad company the broadest construction claimed by
it (and, in determining the existence of a Federal question, we
are, bound to do this), may it not be reasonably insisted that,
under the act of 1872 and ordinance No. 793, that "no person
or persons shall drive or place or cause to be driven or placed
any pile or piles, stone, timbers, earth or other obstruction in the
harbor of the city without the permission of the commissioner
of public works," the right of the railroad company "to enter
upon and take possession of and use all and singular lands,
streams and materials of every kind for the complete operation
of the road," is impaired? We think it may. Without determining the effect of such ordinance, the question whether it
impairs the charter of the company, giving to that charter
a broad construction, is fairly open to contention. Bacon v.
Texas, 163 U. S. 207, 216; TWalla I*ala v. Walla. Walla WIater
Co., 172 U. S. 1, 5, 10. The claim is certainly not a frivolous
one. In determining the existence of a Federal question it is
only necessary to show that it is set up in good faith and is not
wholly destitute of merit. Said Chief Justice Chase in .Ailli,gar v. Hartt~ee,6 Wall. 258, 261, speaking of the validity of
an authority exercised under the United States: "Something
more than a bare assertion of such authority seems essential to
the jurisdiction of this court. The authority intended by the
act is one having a real existence, derived from competent
governmental power. If a different construction had been
intended, Congress would doubtless have used fitting words.
The act would have given jurisdiction in cases of decisions
against cl-ims of authority under the United States.
If a right were claimed under a treaty or statute, and on looking into the record it should appear that no such treaty or
statute existed or was in force, it would hardly be insisted that
this court could review the decision of a state court that the right
claimed did not exist." So in _New Orleans v. -Yew Orleans
Water Works Co., 142 U. S. 79, we held that the bare averment
of a Federal question is not always sufficient; that such aver-

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. CHICAGO.

657

Opinion of the Court.

ment must not be wholly without foundation, since if it were
otherwise a Federal question might be set up in almost every
case, and the jurisdiction of this court invoked simply for the
purpose of delay.
But as we are of opinion that the Federal question in this
case was properly set up in the record, and is not destitute of
merit, the motion to dismiss must be denied.
2. Upon the merits, the case turns upon the proper construction of the charter of the Illinois Central Railroad Company, granted by the General Assembly, February 10, 1851.
As was said in the case of Tiralsh v. Columbus, Rocking Valley
c Athens Railroad Company, ante, 469, and the prior cases
therein cited, whenever a contract created by a state statute
is alleged to have been impaired by subsequent legislation, it
is for this court to determine the proper construction of such
statute, as well as the question whether the subsequent legislation has impaired it.
The sections of the charter upon which the railroad company relies for taking possession of this property, so far as the
same are pertinent to this case, are as follows:
"Sec. 3. The said corporation shall have right of way upon,
and may appropriate to its sole use and control, for the purposes contemplated herein, land not exceeding two hundred
feet in width through its entire length; may enter upon and
taleposseeion of and use all and singular any lands, streams
and materialof every kind,for the location of depots and stopping 8tages, for the purpose of constructing bridges, dams,
embankments, excavations, station grounds, spoil banks, turnouts, engine houses, shops and other buildings necessary for
the construction, completing, altering, maintaining, preserving
and complete operation of said road. All such lands, waters,
materials and privileges belonging to the State are hereby
granted to said corporation for said pu''poses; but when
owned or belonging to any person, company or corporation,
and cannot be obtained by voluntary grant or release, the
same may be taken and paid for, if any damages are awarded,
in the manner provided in 'An act to provide for a general
system of railroad incorporations,' approved November fifth,
VOL. cLxxvi-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

one thousand eight hundred and forty-nine; and the final
decision or award shall vest in the corporation hereby created
all the rights, franchises and immunities in said act contemplated and provided;

.

.

.

Provided,that nothing in this

section contained shall be so construed as to autholize'the said
corporation to interrupt the navigation of said streams."
"See. 8. . . . Nothing in this act contained shall authorize said corporation to make a location of their track within
any city, without the consent of the common council of said
city."
"Sec. 10. Said corporation may construct their said road
and branches over or across any stream of water, watercourse
road, highway, railroad or canal, which the route of its road
shall intersect, but the corporation shall restore the stream or
watercourse, road or highway, thius intersected, to its forymer
state, or in a sufficient manner not to have impaired its usefulness. .
"Sec. 15.

.

.

. ..

T4lird.- That said company shall pro-

ceed to locate, survey and lay out, construct and complete
said road and branches, through the entire length thereof,
.

.

.

with a branch also diverging from. the main track

at.a point not north of the parallel of thirty-nine and a half
degrees north latitude, and running on the most eligible route
into the city of Chicago, on Lake Michigan. That the' central road or main track shall be completed, with at least one
line of -rails, or single track, with the necessary turnouts, stations, equipments and furnishings, within four years from the
date of the execution of said deed of trust, and the branches
within six years from the said date."
The position of. the railroad company under these sections,
presupposing as it does a vested, continuing and irrevocable
right for all time, to use such of the shallow waters and sub:
merged lands of Lake 'Michigan- as it may now or hereafter
find to be necessary to the proper and complete operation of
its road, and a surrender by the city of all power of interference, is certainly a somewhat startling one. It is no matter of surprise that the magnitude of the claim should have
at once aroused the authorities of the city to inquire into its
soundifess.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. CHICAGO.

659

Opinion of the Court.

Under the law of the State of Illinois, as laid down by the
Supreme Court, not only in the case under consideration, but
in the prior case of People v. Eirk, 162 Illinois, 138, 146, "the
State holds the title to the lands covered by the waters of Lake
Michigan lying within its boundaries, but it. holds the title in
trust for the people, for the purposes of navigation and fishery.
The State has*no power to barter and sell the lands as the
United States sells its public lands, but the State holds title
in trust in its sovereign capacity, for the people of the entire
State." Such was also the ruling of this court in a case between the same parties, Illinois Cefitral Railroadv. Illinois,
146 U. S. 387, affirming Illinois v. Illinois Central Railroad,
33 Fed. Rep. 730. This, too, is a question of local law with
regard to which the decisions of the state courts are conclusive. Packer v. Bird, 137 U. S. 661; Hardin v. Jordan, 140
U. S. 371.
But we are now asked to say that, not the State, but a railway company, is vested with a power whicb, in the course of
time and in the increasing magnitude of its business, may
enable it to do, by indirection or piecemeaf, what it has been
held the State could not do directly -take the whole water
front of the city to the limit of navigation for the operation
of the road, and that, too, without the consent and against the
protest of the city. If such authority be possible, it should be
granted in the clearest and most unmistakable language.
But on examining section three of the charter-the source
of this almost unlimited power- we find that, so far from its
being conferred in precise and definite words, the implication
is clearly against the power claimed. '. In fact, it is only by a
strained and unnatural contriction that any intention on the
part of the legislature to abdicate its authority over the submerged lands of Lake MichiganP can be raised.
Referring t6 the particular language of the grant in that.
section, it is manifest that such authority must arise either
from the right given "to enter upon and take possession of
and use all and singular any lands, streams and materials of
every kind," etc., or from the grant of ",all such lands, waters,
materials and privileges belonging to the State."

OCTOBER TER-,

1899.

Opinion of the Court.

We do not question the general principle that the word
"lands" includes everything which the land carries or which
stands updn it, whether it be natural timber, artificial structures or water, and that an ordinary grant of land by metes
and bounds carries all pools and ponds, non-navigable rivers
and waters of every description by which such lands, or any
portion of them, may be submerged, since, as was said by the
court in Regina v. Leeds & Liverpool Co., 7 Ad. & El. 671, 685:

"Lands are not the less land for being covered with water."
See also Brooket v. Ohio &cc.Railroad, 14 Penn. St. 241;
Beckman v. Kreaner, 43 Illinois, 447; Hooker v. Cummings,
20 Johns. 90; State v. Pottmeyer, 33 Indiana, 402; Rex v.
Wharton, Gas. Temp. Holt, 499; S. C. 12 Mod. 510; Buckingham v. Smith, 10 Ohio, 288 ; -Mill River Woollen. .fg. Co. v.
Smith, 34 Connecticut, 462; Waters v. Lilley, 4 Pick. 199;
Washington lee Co. v. Shortall, 101 Illinois, 46.
But it is equally well settled that, in the absence of any
local statute or usage, a grant of lands by the State does not
pass title to submerged lands below high water mark; Pollard
v. Hagan, 3 How. 212; Goodtitle v. Eibbe, 9 How. 471;
eer v. EIarbor
United States v. Pacheco, 2 Wall. 587;
Commissioners, 18 Wall. 57; Hardin v. Jordan, 140 U. S.
371, 381; Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1, 13; and that this
,principle also applies to the Great Lakes;. Illinois Central
Railroad v. Illinois, 146 U. S. 387; Hardin v. Jordan, 140
U. S.371, 382 ; Seaman v. Smith, 24 Illinois, 521; People v.
Kirk, 162 Illinois, 138, 146; Revell v. The People, 177 Illinois,
468, 479.
It is true, as was said by the court in Shively v. Bowlby,
152 U. S. 1, 13, that if either the language of the grant or
long usage under it clearly indicates an intention that waters
submerged by the sea shall be included, it is within the power
of. the sovereign to grant them. But we know of nothing
in the way of constant usage with regard to these submerged
waters which lends support to the argument of the railroad
company that this case is within the exception and not within
the general principle of Shively v. Bowlby. To make usage
significant of the proper interpretation of the grant, it should

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. CHICAGO.

661

Opinion of the Court.

appear that it was a usage for the railroad company to appropriate such lands without the express consent of the city,
but with its silent acquiescence.
Undoubtedly such usage
might be inferred from repeated appropriations by the railroad without objection from the city authorities. But the
facts seem to be that, wherever the railroad has taken such
lands, it has done so with the express consent or subsequent
ratification of the State-or city. - Thus the railroad originally
entered the city under an ordinance adopted June 14, 1852,
giving it the right "to enter said city at or near the intersection of its southern boundary with Lake Michigan, and
following the shore on or near the margin of said lake northerly to the southern bounds of the open space known as Lake
Park, in front of canal section 15, and continue northerly
across the open space in front of said section 15 to such
grounds as the said company may acquire between the north
line of Randolph street and the Chicago River, .
.
upon
which said ground shall be located the depot of said railroad,7'
and express permission was given in section three of this
ordinance to extend the railroad company's works and "fillout into the lake to a point on the southern pier not less than
four hundred feet west from the present east end of the
same."
In Illinois Central Iail'oad v. Rucke', 14 Illinois, 353, it
was held that the company had the right by its chag'ter to
locate its road over these premises, the city having consented to
such location. That was an application by the railroad coinpany for the condemnation of certain lands along the water
front. The petitioner alleged that the railroad had been
located and was to be constructed in the waters of the lake,
along the margin, in front of the premises of the land owners,
and partly over the same. One of the defences was that the
corporation had no power to locate its road in the waters of
Lake Michigan, and that the premises in question were a
part of the harbor of Chicago and an encroachment thereon.
Counsel for the road took the position that the State had, by
the express words of the charter, given to the company author
ity to locate its road in the waters of the lake. The opinioP

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

is very brief, and the report of the case unsatisfactory, but
the court did hold that the company had the right by its
charter to locate the road over the premises in question, the
city having assented. In the case under consideration the
Supreme Court took the view that the controversy in that
case concerned only the 260 feet strip for the location of the
main track; that no question was raised or decided in regard
to the right of the railroad company to go beyond the 200
feet right of way, and take submerged lands for an engine
house or other purposes na.med in the charter. This is entirely true; at the same time it is difficult to see wherein
authority, to take this 200 feet strip is distinguishable from
an authority to take such other submerged lands as are necessary for the complete operation of the road. It is highly
probable that, if the case had be6n presented in the light of
subsequent authorities, a different conclusion might have been
reached. It is sufficient'to say of the Rucker case, however,
that the city was no party to the litigation, having expressly
consented to the location of the main track, and that it is in
no sense estopped by the adjudication. It was entirely competent for the Supreme Court in the instant case to take a
different view of the law.
It would appear that, prior to 1869, other encroachments
had been made upon these submerged lands, and upon April
16, 1869, the General Assembly by an act condoned these
encroachments, and declared that the right of the company
"under the grant from the State in its charter
and under and by virtue of its apprapriation,occupancy, use
and control . . . in and to the lands submerged," was
confirmed, a procedure which seems to have been quite unnecessary upon the present theory of the railroad. company
that it has a perpetual right under its charter to take such
submerged lands as were necessary for its complete operation.
.XcAulky v. Columbus, Chicago f c. CentralRailway, 83 Illinois,
352.
The position here taken, that the grant of the railroad com-

pany-did not include the submerged lands along the lake shore,
is not in conflict with the New York cases, which related

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. CHICAGO.

663

Opinion of the Court.

to submerged lands admittedly belonging to private parties.
In the principal case, In the Matter of New York &c. Railroad
Companies, 77 N. Y. 218, the proceeding was for the condemnation of lands in the city of New York, along the Hudson
River, a large portion of which was under water. It was
held that, so far as they belonged to private parties, they
might be condemned, but so far as the lands formed a part
of the streets and avenues of the city, the company could
not acquire title to them, for the reason that they belonged
to the city and were for the benefit of the public, citing
People v. Kerr, 27 N. Y. 188. It was also held that, so far as
respected the lands of private parties, the fact that they were
In Staten Island Rapid
submerged made no difference.
that the statute
appeared
it
251,
N.
Y.
Transit Co., 103
empowered
corporations
railroad
of
the
formation
authorizing
domain,
of
eminent
them to acquire lands, under the right
not only from individuals, but also from the State: but, as
observed by the court in the opinion, all questions as to the
right of a railroad company to acquire lands under navigabl6
waters, as against the State, were excluded from the controversy. In the case of Kerr v. West Shore Railroad,127 N. Y.
269, it was held that proceedings taken by. the company to
acquire a right of way across plaintiff's lands were effectual
to vest in the company whatever title plaintiff had in the
upland or in the land under the waters of the river, but it was
said in the opinion to be familiar law that the shores of
navigable rivers and streams, and the lands under the waters
thereof, belong to the State, and may be appropriated by the
State to all municipal purposes.
The grant of "waters" in the second sentence of section
three is, as shown by the context, still less decisive of an
intent on the part of the legislature to make a general grant
of the waters of Lake Michigan. By the first sentence of this
section power is given to the corporation to appropriate land
not-exceeding two hundred feet in width through its entire
length, and "to enter upon and take possession of and use
all and singular any lands, streams and materials of every
kind for the location of depots and stopping places,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

etc.,

.

.

.

for the complete operation of said road;"

and by the second sentence "all such lands, waters, materials
and privileges, belonging to the State, are hereby granted to
said

corporation for the said purposes,

.

.

.

provided

that nothing in this section contained shall be so construed
as to authorize the said corporation to interrupt the navigation
of said sti'eams." Obviously the words "such waters" in the
second sentence is limited to the "streams" specified in the
first sentence, and power was given to the raih'oad company to
take possession of such streams for the purpose of constructing
bridges, dams, embankments, excavations, station grounds, etc.,
upon the theory that the navigable streams of the State could
not be bridged, diverted or encroached upon, except with the
express authority of the State. The object of the section was
evidently to confer such authority, subject, of course, to the
navigation laws of the United States. Escanaba Co. v.
Chicago, 107 U. S. 678, 683; Illinois River &c. Packet Co. v.
Peoria Bridge Asso., 38 Illinois, 467; Chicago v. McoGinn, 51
Illinois, 266.
The word "streams" was evidently used to denote running
waters, and is wholly inapplicable to a body of water like
Lake Michigan. Trustees of Schools v. Schroll, 120 Illinois,
509. That this was the intention of the legislature is also
evident from the proviso of the section "that nothing in this
section contained shall be so construed as to authorize the
said corporation to interrupt the navigation of said streams."
The use of this word "streams" was not only intended to
differentiate the waters of rivers from the waters of the lake,
but also has its bearing as" tending to show that the word
"land" was used in the sense of dry lands, or upland, as distinguished from submerged land. It is incredible that, if the
General Assembly had intended to authorize the company to
take possession of submerged lands, as it found it necessary
or convenient so to do, it would not have employed more
explicit language to that effect.
3. But even if the grant were as broad as claimed, and gave
the company a right to take parcels of submerged land, as it
became necessary for its railroad purposes, we are yet con-

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. CHICAGO.

665

Opinion of the Court.

strained to hold that it could not do so without the consent of
the common council. The eighth section of the charter provides that "nothing in this act contained shall authorize said
corporation to make a location of their track within any city,
without the consent of the common council of said city."
We see nothing in the act from which an intention can be
inferred to confine this proviso to the main track of the road,
and agree with the Supreme Court of Illinois that it included
its depots, engine houses and the necessary track approaches
to the same. Such seems to have been the practical construction placed upon it by the city and the railroad company. If
the position of the company, that it applies only to the main
track, were sound, it would be possible for it, upon establishing the necessity for additional facilities, to locate these
engine houses and work shops in localities where they would
be an intolerable nuisance to the inhabitants; or perhaps miles,
distant from the main line to which approaches would become
necessary by tracks laid through populous portions of the city,
regardless of the wishes of its constituted authorities.
It is also insisted by the company that this restriction
applies only to the city as bounded in 1851, at the date of the
charter, and that as the southern limit of the city at that time
was Twenty-second street, no such consent is now necessary
to be obtained, though the boundaries of the city have long
since been extended to a point below the land proposed to be
taken. Had the company signified a desire to take possession
of these lands before the limits of the city had been extended,
it is possible that it might claim a vested right to do so, though
the boundaries were subsequently enlarged; but the object
of the provision was evidently for the protection of cities in
general, and not for the protection of cities as they existed at
the date of the charter.' The road, as originally constructed,
ran through an almost uninhabited country, and yet a
country which gave promise of a large population and of
great cities being built up alon" the line of the road ; and it is
highly improbable that the growth of the State should not
have been fores6en and contemplated in this legislation. Indeed, it is impossible to suppose that the legislature intended

OCTOBER TERAI,

1899.

Opinion of the Couit.

that the road, so far as it passed through existing cities, all
then insignificant, should be subject to the will of the common
council, but so far as it passed. through cities that might arise
in the future, or existing cities whose boundaries would
shortly be enlarged, it abdicated such power.
The case of Regina v. Cottle, 3 Eng. L. & E. 474, is pertinent in this connection. A turnpike act, passed in 1840, and
which was to be in force for thirty-one years, provided that it
should not be lawful to continue or erect any turnpike gate
across the roads in the town of Taunton, or in any other town
through or into which the roads might pass or be made. It
was held that the prohibition extended to the erection of a gate
within the limits of a town as it existed at any time during
the operation of the act, and not merely at the time when the
act passed. Said Lord Campbell: "We think the legislature
contemplated the probable increase of Taunton within a period
longer than that generally assigned for a generation of the
human race, and intended that its inhabitants, as it increased,
should te exempt from the annoyance of a turnpike gate cutting off the free intercourse between neighbors in the same
'street. .

.

.

This construction is fortified by the reference

'to any other town through or into which the said roads may
pass,' meant, probably, to protect the inhabitants of any new
town which might spring up within the district while the act
should be in force."
The case of The Peoyle v. Deekan, 153 N. Y. 528, is also
apposite in this connection. In that case a grant by the town.
authorities to an incorporated gas company of a power to. lay
conductors "for conducting gas in and through the public
streets and highways of said town," without any express limitation, was held not to be restricted to existing streets and
highways, but to be*construed as extending to such as were
subsequently enlarged, changed or opened. In delivering the
opinion the court observed: "When the right to use the streets
has been once granted in general terms to a corporation engaged in supplying gas for public and private use, such grant
necessarily contemplates that new streets are to be opened and
old ones extended from time to time, and so the privilege may"

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. CHICAGO

667

Opinion of the Court.

be exercised in the new streets as well as in the old. Sucli a
grant is generally in perpetuity, or during the existence of the
corporation, or at least for a long period of time, and should be
given effect according to its nature, purpose and duration."
There is nothing in these cases in conflict with those of Chope
v. Detroit & Howell Plank Road Co., 37 Michigan, 195, and
Det"oit v. Detroit & Howell Plank Road Co., 43 Michigan,
140, in both of which it was held that a toll gate, lawfully
erected upon land which was subsequently taken into the city,
could not be declared a nuisance by reason of the extension of
the boundaries, and that the same could not be abated without
a violation of the Constitution.
In the case under consideration, however, no invasion of the
right of property is contemplated. The subjection of the railroad company to the will of the common council deprived the
company of nothing it before possessed, but limited the exercise of a right which had not yet become vested and was still
subject to the police-power. The question is ieally one of the
intention of the General Assembly in incorporating this provision into the charter of the company, and in view of the need
of some control of this kind and the condition of the country
at the time the charter was adopted, we can have no doubt
whatever that the assent of the common council was intended
to be required as a per ianent condition. Especially h this so
in view of.-the insistence of the railroad company that the
power to appropriate these submerged lands is a continuing
one. In such case the condition upon which the power should
be exercised, namely, the consent of the common council,
should also be construed as continuous. - In other words, the
railroad company cannot assert the power and i.nthe same
breath repudiate the condition.
In conclusion, we are of opinion that the decree of the
Supreme Court of Illinois was clearly right, and itis therefore
Afirmed.

