OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

It is true that individual citizens, whose rights are seriously
affected by a system of non-intercourse, might, perhaps, maintain a bill of this kind; but to make the remedy effective
it would be necessary to institute a multiplicity of suits, to
carry on a litigation practically against a State in the courts
of that State, and to assume the entire pecuniary burden of
such. litigation, when all the inhabitants of the complaining
State are more or less interested in the result.
But the objection to the present bill is that it does not
allege the stoppage of all commerce between the two States,
but between the city of New Orleans and the State of Texas.
The controversy is not one in which the citizens of Louisiana
generally can be assumed to be interested, but only the citizens of New Orleans, and it therefor.e seems to me that the
State is not the proper party complainant.

.76 592

UNITED STATES v. OREGON AND CALIFORNIA
RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 9. Argued April14, 1899.-

Decided January 8,1900.

By the act of July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 365, c. 217, Congress granted lands to
the Northern Pacific Railroad Company to aid in the construction of a
railroad and telegraph lipe from a point on Lake Superior in Wisconsin
or Minnesota to some ppint on Puget Sound, with a branch via the valley
of the Columbia River to a point at or near Portland in the State of
Oregon. The grant-was of "every alternate section of public land, not
mineral, designated by odd numbers, to the amount of twenty alternate
sections per mile on each side of said railroad line as said company may
adopt through the Territories of the United States, and ten alternate
sections of land per mile on each side of said railroad whenever it passes
through any State, and whenever, on the line thereof, the United States
have full title, not reserved, sold, granted or otherwise appropriated, and
free from preemption, or other claims or rights, at the time the line of
said roaq is definitely fixed, and a plat thereof filed in the office of the

UNITED STATES v. OREGON &c. RAILROAD CO. 29
Syllabus.
Commissioner of the -General Land Office; and whenever, prior to said
time, any of said sections or parts of sections shallhave been granted, sold,
reserved, occupied by homestead settlers, or preempted, or otherwise
disposed of, other lands shall be selected by said company in lieu thereof,
under the direction of the Sectetary of the Interior, in alternate sections,
and designated by odd numbers, not more than ten miles beyond the
limits of said alternate sections." In March, 1865, the president of that
company filed in the Land Department a map which if of value for any
purpose was only a map of "general route," not one of definite location
between Wallula and Portland. That map was not accepted. By act of
July 25, 1866, 14 Stat. 239, c. 242, Congress made a grant of land in aid
of the construction of a railroad and telegraph line between Portland,
Oregon, and the Central Pacific Railroad in California. That grant was
in the usual terms employed in such acts. Subsequently the benefit of
that grant as to the part of the road to be constructed in Oregon was
conferred upon the Oregon Central Railroad Company. The lands 'here.
in dispute, whether place or indemnity, were within the limits of the
grant of 1866. The entire line of road of the Oregon and California Railroad Company, which was the successor of the Oregon Central Railroad
,Company, was fully constructed and duly accepted by the President, and
at the time this suit was begun was being operated and had been continuously operated by that company. The Oregon Company filed its map
of definite location in 1870, and it was accepted by the Land Department.
By the act of September 29, 1890, 26 Stat. 496, c. 1040, all lands theretofore granted to any State or corporation to aid in the construction of a
railroad opposite to or coterminous witli the portion of any such railroad
not then cbmpleted and in operation, for the construction of which such
lands were granted, were forfeited to the United States. There never
was any withdrawal of indemnity lands on the propoged line of the
Northern Pacific Railroal Company between Wallula and Portland, nor
was there any definite location or construction of its road opposite to
the lands in suit. Held,
(1) That nothing in the act of 1864 stood in the way of Congress subsequently granting to other railroad corporations the privilege of
earning any lands that might be embraced within the general route
6f the Northern Pacific Railroad.
(2) That as the grant contained in that act did not include any lands
that had been reserved, sold, granted or otherwise appropriated
at the time the line of the Northern Pacific Railroad was "definitely fixed;" as the route of the Northern Pacific Railroad had
not been definitely fixed at the time the act of July 25, 1866, was
passed, or when the line of the Oregon Company was definitely
located; as the lands in dispute are within the limits of the grant
contained in the act of 1866; as the route of the Oregon Railroad
was definitely fixed, at least when the map showing that route was
accepted by the Secretary of the Interior on the 29th day of January, 1870,-the Northern Pacific Railroad Company having done

OCTOBER TERMvI, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.
nothing prior to the latter date except to file the Perham map of
1865; and as prior to-the forfeiture act of September 29, 1890,
there had not been any definite location of the Northern Pacific
Railroad opposite the lands in dispute, there is no escape from the
conclusion that these lands were lawfully earned by the Oregon
Company and were rightfully patented to it. Of -course, if the
route of the Northern Pacific rcad had been definitely located
before the act of 1890 was passed, and had embraced the lands
in dispute, different questions would have been presented.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.-M?. Solicitor General for appellant.

Afi. .

. Payson for appellees.

MR.JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit involves the title to a large body of lands in the
State of Oregon covered by patents issued by the United
States to the Oregon and California Railroad Company, a
corporation organized under the laws of Oregon. Its object
is to obtain a decree cancelling those patents as well as certain conveyances made by the company.
Tthe suit was brought by the Attorney General in 1893
under the authority of the act of March 3, 1887, c. 376, entitled "An act to provide for the adjustment of land grants
made- by Congress to aid in the construction of railroads and
for the forfeiture of unearned lands and for other purposes."
By that act the Secretary of the Interior was directed to
adjust, in accordance with the decisions of this court, each of
the railroad land grants made by Congress to aid in the construction of railroads and theretofore unadjusted. Its second
section provided that "if it shall appear, upon the completion
of such adjustments respectfully, [respectively,] or sooner, that
lands have been, from any cause, heretofore erroneously certified or patented, by the United States, to or for the use or bene-.
fit of any company claiming by, through or under grant from
the United States, to aid in the construction of a railroad, it
shall be the duty of the Secretary of the Interior to thereupon

UNITED STATES v. OREGON &c. RAILROAD CO.

31

Opinion of the Court.

demand from such company a relinquishment or reconveyance
-to the United States of all such lands, whether within granted
or indemnity limits; and if such company shall neglect or
fail to so reconvey such lands to the United States within
ninety days after the aforesaid demand shall have been made,
it shall thereupon be the duty of the Attorney General to commence and prosecute in the proper courts the necessary
proceedings- to cancel all patents, certification or other evidence of title heretofore issued for such lands, and to restore
the title thereof to the United States." 24 Stat. 556, c. 376.
The defendants demurred to the bill for want of equity, but
the demurrer was overruled. 57 Fed. Rep. 890. They then
filed a joint and several answer and proofs were taken by the
parties. By-the decree of the Circuit Court patents of May
9, 1871, July 12, 1871, June 22, 1871, and June 18, 1877, purporting to convey to the Oregon and California Railroad Company the lands in dispute (which are fully described by metes
alid b6unds in the decree) were cancelled as being null and
void. 'By the -same decree a warranty deed of February 26,
1880, to the defendant John A- Hurlburt, a deed of Nbvember
of which deeds was exe-.
5, 1879, to Jacob Goldstrap -each
cuted by the railroad company -a deed by Goldstrap to Sylvester Evans, and a deed from the latter to Thomas L. Evans
of July 13, 1883, were also cancelled as null and void. 69
Fed. Rep. 899. The case was then carried" to the Circuit
Court of Appeals where the decree of the Circuit Court was
reversed with directions to dismiss the bill. 77 Fed. Rep. 67.
The facts necessary -to a clear understanding of the questions raised by the pleadings, are as follows:
By an act approved July 25, 1866, c. 242, Congress authorized the California and Oregon-Railroad Company, a California corporation, and such company as the legislature of Oregon
should thereafter designate, to lay out, locate, construct, finish
and maintain a railroad and telegraph line between Portland,
Oregon, and the Central Pacifio Railroad in California-the
Oregon Company to construct that part of the line in Oregon
beginning at Portland and running thence southerly through
the Willamette, Umpqua and Rogue River valleys to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

southern boundary of Oregon, where it was to connect with
the part constructed in Oalifornia by the California corporation. 14 Stat. 239, 240, 241, c.242.
For the purpose of aiding in the construction of such railroad and telegraph line and to secure the safe and speedy transportation of the mails, troops, munitions of war and public
stores over the line of the., railroad, every alternate section of
public land, not mineril, designated by odd numbers, to the
amount of twenty alternate sections per mile (ten on each side)
of the railroad line, were granted to those companies, their
successors and assigns. If the alternate sections or parts of
sections so granted were found to have been "graited, sold,
reserved, occupied by homestead settlers, predmpted, or otherwise disposed of," other lands, designated as aforesaid, were to
be selected by the companies in lieu thereof, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, in alternate sections des•ignated by odd numbers, nearest to and not m6re than ten
miles beyond the limits of the first-named alternate sections.
It was made the duty of the Secretary of the Interior, as soon
as the companies or either of them filed in his office a map of
the survey of the railroad or any portion thereof, not less than
sixty continuous miles from either terminus, to withdraw from
sale the lands granted on either side of the railroad as far as
located and within the limits specified. § 2.
Whenever the companies or either of them had twenty or
more consecutive miles of any portion of the railroad and telegraph line 'ready for service, it became the duty of the"President to appoint three commissioners to examine the same, and
when itappeared that twenty consecutive miles of railroad
and telegral5h had been completed and equipped in all respects
as required, the commissioners were to repbrt the fact under
oath to the President, whereupon patents were to issue for the
.lands granted to the extent of and coterminous with the completed section of the railroad an'd telegraph line; and from
time to time whenever twenty or more consecutive miles of
road and telegraph were completed and equipped, patents
were to be issued upon the report of the commissioners, and
so on until the entire railroad and telegraph authorized were
constructed. § 4.

UNITED STATES v. OREGON &c. RAILROAD 00.

33

Opinion of the Co'rt.

The companies were required to file their asseit to the act
in the Department of the Interior within one year after its
passage, and complete the first section of twenty miles of the
railroad and telegraph within two years and at least twenty,
miles in each year thereafter, and the whole on or before the
first day of July, 1875,-the railroad to be of the same gauge
as the Central Pacific Railroad of California and connect
therewith. - § 6.
In case the companies failed to comply with the terms and
conditions required, by not filing their assent thereto as provided in section six of the act, or by not completing the same
as provided in that section, the act was to be null and void,
and all the lands not conveyed by patent to the company or
companies, as the case might be, at the date of such failure;
should revert to the United States; a'nd if the road and telegraph line were not kept in repair and fit for-use after the
same were completed, Congress could -pass an act to put them
in repair and use and direct the income therefrom to be devoted to the United States to repay afi expenditures caused by
the default or neglect of the companies or either of them, or
fix pepuniary responsibilitjr not exceeding the value of the
lands granted by the act. § 8.
'It appears from the bill fled by the United States that, by
joint resolution of October 20, 1868, the legislature of Oregon
designated the Oregon Central Railroad Company to receive
the privileges and franchises and to perform the duties mentioned. in the act of July 25, 1866; that on the 29th day
of October, 1869, that company, having previously accepted
the grant contained in that act, filed with. the Secretary of
the Interior in its map of "definite loction" opposite to the
lands in suit; that this map was accepted -by the Secretary
on January 29, 1870; that in February, 1870, the lands in dispute were all withdrawn in pursuance of orders issued by that
officer; that on or about April 4, 1870, the Oregdn and California Railroad Company, a corporation of Oregon, became
the successor and assignee of the Oregon Central Railroad
Company; that the road of that company was duly constructed opposite the lands in dispute within the time limited
VOL. CLXXVI-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

by law for the completion of that portion; and that two
sections of 20 miles each were examined by commissioners
appointed by the President, and their report having been accepted by him patents for the lands coterminous with those
sections were ordered to be and were issued.
The bill contained these averments: "Your orator shows
that all the lands hereinbefore described are within the limits
of the grant as prescribedin said act of July 25, 1866, whether
place or indemnity. And your orator shows that the entire
line of railroadof the said Oregon and California Railroad
Company has beenfully constructed and been duly accepted by
the President of the United States after due reports by commissioners on the several sections thereof, and has been'continuously, and still is operated by sid company; but aportion of
said road, to wit, one hundred and sixty-three miles, was constructed after July 1, 1880."
Referring to the conveyances made by the railrbad company
to the individual defendants, the bill admits that the purchasers
went- into actual possession, made valuable and permanent improvements and remained thereafter. in possession. It then
alleges that "John A. Rurlburt and Thomas L. Evavs each
claim the title to said lands respectively in fee simple, and your
orator concedes that they were severally purchased and granted
from the said Oregon and California Railroad Company in good
*faith for value, relying on the apparent title to said lands under
said patent from orator to said railroad company, and without
actual notice of-any defect in tlje title of said company to said
lands, as set forth in this bill. But your orator insists'that they
were chargeable with constructive notice of the several acts
of Congress, and that under the said acts of Congress aid the
acts and doings of the said railroad company no title could
pass to said Hurlburt and Evans, and that said patent should
be cancelled as to them as well as to the grantee therein, the
said Oregon-and California Railroad Company." In view of these facts, if the case depended alone on the act
of July 25, 1866, the title of the defendants to these lands) as
against the United States, could not be questioned. The Government, however, bas insisted in its bilf that the

UNITED STATES v. OREGON &c. RAILROAD .0.

35

Opinion- of the Court.

issuing of the patents to the Oregon and California Railroad
Company was without authority of law. This contention rests
upon the assumption that the lands so pa-tented- although
within the limits of the grant contained in the act of July 25,
1866, and within the line of the Oregon Company as definitely
located - were excluded from that grant because included in
the grant previously, made to the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company by the act of July 2, 1864, c. 217, 13 Stat. 365; in
which case, it is insisted that they were forfeited to the United
States by. the act of September 29, 1890, c. 1040, 26 Stat. 496,
and should be so adjudged.
By the last-named act it was among other things provided:
" 1. That there is. hereby forfeited to the United States,
and the United States hereby resumes the title thereto, all
lands heretofore granted to any State or to any corporation
to aid in the construction of a railroad opposite to and coterminous with the portion of' any such railroad not now completed, and in operation, for the construction br benefit of
which such lands were granted; and all swch lands 'are
declared to be a part of the public domain; Provided,That
this act shall not be 6onstrued.as forfeiting the right of way or
station grounds of any railroad company heretofore granted."
"§ 6. That no lands declared forfeited to the United States
by this act shall by reason of such forfeiture inure to the
benefit of any State or corporation to which lands may have
been granted by Congress, except as herein otherwise provided; nor shall this act be construed to enlarge the area of
land originally covered by any such grant, or to confer any
right upon any State, corporation or person to lands which
were excepted from such grant. Nor shall the moiety bf the
lands granted to any railroad company on account of a main
and a- branch line appertaining to -uncompleted road, and
hereby forfeited, within the conflicting limits of the grants
for such main and branch lines, wh'en but one of such lines
has been completed, inure by virtue of the forfeiture hereby
declared to the benefit of the completed line." 26 Stat. 496,
c. 1040.
The contention of the Government renders it necessary to

OCTOBER TERM, 1899
Opinion of the Court.

ascertain what interest, if any, was acquired by the lorthern
Pacific Railroad Company in these lands by virtue of the act
of July 2, 1864.
By that act the Northern Pacific Railroad Company was
created a corporation with authority to build a railroad and
telegraph line from a point on Lake Superior in Wisconsin or
Minnesota westerly by the most eligible route, as should be
determined by the company, on a line north of the 45th
degree of latitude, to some point on Puget's Sound, "with
a branch via the valley of the Columbia River to a point at or
near Portland, in the State of Oregon, leaving the main trunk
line at the most suitable place, not more than three hundred
miles from its western terminus." The grant to that company was of "every alternate section of public land, not
mineral, designated by odd numbers, to the amount of twenty
alternate sections per mile on each side of said railroad line as
said company may adopt through the Territories 6f the United
States, and ten alternate sections of land per mile on each side
of said railroad whenever it passes through any State, and
whenever, on the line thereof, the United States have full
title, not reserved, sold, granted or otherwise appropriated,
and free from preemption, or other claims or rights, at the time
the line of said road is definitelyfxed, and aplat thereoffiled
in the offce of the Commissioner of the General Land Office;
and whenever, prior to said time, any of said sections or parts
of sections shall have been granted, sold, reserved, occupied
by homestead settlers, or preempted, or otherwise disposed of,
other lands shall be selected by said company in lieu thereof,
under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, in alternate sections, and designated by odd numbers, not more thaA
ten miles beyond the limits of said alternate sections."
By other sections of the act it was provided: 1"§ 6. That the
President of the United States shall cause the lands to be surveyed for forty miles in Width on both sides of the entire line
of said road after the general route shall be fixed, and as fast
as may be required by the construction of said railroad; and
the odd sections of land hereby granted shall not be. liable to
sale, or entry, or pregmption before or after they are surveyed,

UNITED STATES v. OREGON &c. RAILROAD CO.

37

Opinion of the Court.

except by said company, as provided in this act; but the provisions of the act of September, eighteen hundied and fortyone, granting preemption rights,- and the acts amendatory
thereof, and of the act entitled ' An act to secure homesteads
to actual settlers on the public domain,' approved May twenty,
eighteen hundred and sixty-two, shall be, and the same are
herebZ, extended to all other lands on the line. of said road
when surveyed, excepting those hereby granted to said company. And the reserved alternate sections shall not be sold
by the Government at a price les than two dollars and fifty
cents per acre when offered for sale." "§ 8. That each and
every grant, right and privilege herein are so made and given
to, and accepted by, said Northern Pacific Railroad Company,
upon and subject to the following conditions, namely: That
the said company shall commence the work on said road within
two years from the approval of this act by the President, and
shall complete not less than fifty miles per year after the second year, and shall construct, equip, furnish and complete the
whole road by the fourth day of July, anuo Domini eighteen
hundred and seventy-six." By section twenty it was declared
that "Congress may, at any time, having due regard for the
rights of said Northern Pacific Railroad Company, add to,
alter, amend or repeal this act." 13 Stat. 365, c. 217.
On the 6th day.of March, 1865, Josiah Perham, President
of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company addressed to Mr.
Usher, then Secretary of the Interior, the following communication: ".Under authority from the board of directors
of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, I have designated
on the accompanying map in red ink the general line of their
railroad from a point on Lake Superior, in the State of Wisconsin, to a point on Puget Soundi in Washington Territory,
via the Columbia River, adopted by said company as the line
of said railroad, subject only to iuch variations as may be
found necessary after more specific surveys, and I respectfully
ask that the same may be filed in the office of the Commissioner of the General Land Office, together with a copy of
the charter and 'organization of said company, and that
under your directions the lands granted to said company

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

may be marked and withdrawn from sale in conformity to
law."
Under date of March 9, 1865, Secretary Usher wrote to the
Commissioner of the General Land Office as follows: "Herewith I transmit a map upon which the 'general line' of the
Northern Pacific Railroad, as. adopted by the board of directors of that railroad company, is delineated; also a copy of
'the letter of the president of said company, dated the sixth
instant, requesting that the granted lands along said line be
withdrawn from the market. In view of the provisions of'
the third and sixth sections of the act of Congress, approved
July 2, 1864, should you perceive no objectioi, I think that
the odd-numbered sections along the line for ten miles in width
on each side in Minnesuta and Wisconsin, and for twenty miles
in width on each side along that part of the line extending
through the Territories westward to Puget Sound, may be
withdrawn as requested, as preliminary to the finAl survey and
location of said railroad.. -The even-numbered sections along
the line will, however; be subject to disposal by the United
States, as provided in the sixth section of said act of Congress."
No immediate reply seems to have been made to the letter
of Secretary Usher. But on June 22, -1865, Mr. Wilson,
Cbminmissioner of the General .Land Office, addressed to Mr.
Hai-lan, then Secretary of the Interior, a. communication in
which he referred to the above letter of Secretary Usher, and
in which he assigned many reasons why th6 Perham map
was wholly inadequate for the purposes intended to be accomplished by it, namely, the ,withdrawal for the benefit of the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company of all the public lands
within the exterior lines indicated by that map. Among
other things Mr. Wilson said in his communication: "Of
course, no-.withdrawal can now be made on account of the
road in the region of country extending across that part .of
the continent between the west boundary of Minnesota to the
eastern surveys of Washitiiton Territory, because over that
territory the lines of the public surveys have not yet been
established. In this extended locality, the withdrawal should
only be ordered as the public surveys are advanced and survey

UNITED STATES v. OREGON &c. RAILROAD CO. 89
Opinion of the Court.

of railroad established, in like manner as indicated under
first head. A general withdrawal upon conjectural -or uncertain basis might result in shutting out from settlement
large bodies of land which an actual surver would show not
within the" grant, whilst lands would be omitted from the
withdrawals which the survey might require to be included.
Then, it is not sound policy nor is there. any warrant in our
land legisliition for doing any act the tendency of which
would -give preferenceto satisfy a grant on such a stupendous
scale. as this, whilst individual claims under our general system
of,-land laws, homestead, preemption and sales would be
unaided by,any such preliminary discriminating proceeding.
The result of.- a premature withdrawal on uncertain basis
would be unjust to the pioneer settler, detrimental to the
public interests in arresting the progress of settlement and
disposal in that direction of the public domain, and to that
extent checking the growth and prosperity of our frontier,
and that, too, in the vicinity of a colonial dependence of a
powerful nation.; would be a prejudice to the interest§ of the
railroad grant itself in excluding settlers and immigrants,
whose labor and means would enhance the value of such lands
as in the ordinary progressive operations of the land system
would in due time fall to the grant. The land system should
be so administered that all the different acts of land legislation may be at the same time in full operation, giving precedence to no one law over another, unless where the terms
of the law indicate the public will to be. otherwise, leaving
corporate or other grantees and individuals respectively to
have the benefit of their superior diligence in establishing
and completing their several claims according to law. For
these considerations this office declines ordering a withdrawal
until authenticated maps of the actual survey of the several
portions of the route shall be successively filed from time to
time to completion, showing the connection of said portions
with the lines of the public surveys, yet respectfully submits
the foregoing considerations for such directions as the Sedretary may be pleased to give in the premises forthe government of this office."

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Op~ion of the Court.

On the 10th day of April, 1869, Congress passed a joint resolution granting a right of way for the construction of a
railroad from a point at or near Portland, Oregon, to a point
west of the Cascade Mountains in Washington Territory.
That resolution provided: "That the Northern Pacific Rail-'
road Company he, and hereby is, authorized to extend its
branch line from a point at or near Portland, Oregon, to
some suitable point on Puget Sound, to be determined by
said company, and also to connect the same with its main line
west of the Cascade Mountains, in the Territory of Washington; said extension being subject to all the conditions andprovisions, and said company in respect thereto being entitled to all the rights and privileges conferred -by the act
incorporating said company, and all acts additional to and
amendatory thereof': -Provided, That said company shall
not be entitled to any subsidy in money, bonds or additional
lands of the United States, in respect to said extension of its
branch line as aforesaid, except such lands as may be included
in the right of way on the line of such extension as it muay
be located: And 2 rovided further,That at least twenty-five
miles of said extension shall be constructed before the second
day of Tuly, eighteen hundred and seventy-one, and forty
miles per year thereafter until the whole of said extension
16 Stat. 57. No action was taken
shall be completed."
under thaf resolution because it contained no grant of lands;
and it is not contended that it has any material bearing on
this case. It is referred to merely as part of the history of
the grant to the Northern Pacific Railroad.
After the map of the definite location of the Oregon Company had been filed and accepted, namely, on the 31st of May,
1870, Congress passed a joint resolution authorizing the Northern Pacific Railroad Company to issue bonds to aid in the
construction and equipment of its road, "and to secure the
same by mortgage on its property and rights o-f property of
all kinds and descriptions, real, personal and mixed, including
.
and also to locate and
its franchise as a corporation ;
and
with
the privileges, grants
under
the
provisions
construct,
and duties provided for in its act of incorporation, its main

UNITED STATES v. OREGON &c. RAILROAD CO.

41

Opinion of the Court.

road to some point on Puget Sound, via the valley of the
Columbia River, with the right to locate and construct its
branch from tome convenient point .on its main trunk line
across the Cascade Mountains io Puget Sound; and in the
event of there not being in any State or Territory in which
said main line or branch may be located, at the time of the
final location thereof, the amount of lands per mile granted by
Congress to said company, within the limits prescribed by its
charter, then said company shall be entitled, under the directions of the Secretary of the Interior, to receive so many
sections of land belonging to the United States, and designated
by odd numbers, in such State or Territory, within ten miles
on ehch side of said road, beyond the limits prescribed in said
charter, as will make up such deficiency, on said main line or
branch, except mineral and other lands as excepted in the
charter of said company*of 1864, to the amount of the. lands
that have been granted, sold, reserved, occupied by homestead
settlers, pregmpted or otherwise disposed of subsequent to the
passage of the act of July 2, 1864. And that twenty-five.
miles of said main line between its western terminus and the
city of Portland, in the State of Oregon, shall be completed.
by the first day of January, Anno Domini eighteen hundred
and seventy-two, and forty miles of the remaining portion
thereof each year thereafter, until the whole shall be completed between said points." 16 Stat. 378. As said by Mr.
Justice Lamar, when Secretary of the Interior : "By this resolition the designation of the lines of the road was changed;
that which by the granting act [July 2, 1864] was known as
the branch line (via the valley of the Columbia River to a
point at or near Portland, in the State of Oregon,) was changed
to main road or main line, and that which had been designated
as main line (crossing the Cascade Mountains to Puget Sound)
was changed to branch line." 6 L. D. 400; United States v.
Northern Pacif o Railroad Co., 152 U. S. 284, 299.
On, the 4th day of August, 1870, two maps, constituting a
map of general route of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, were presented to the Secretary of the Interior. The
bill alleged that those maps designated a route following the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opipion of the Court.

Columbia River from Wallula, Washington Territory, to a
point on the north side of that river opposite Portland, Oregon,
and that the Secretary of the Interior on the'13th day of
August, 1870, in due form accepted them and directed the
withdrawal of lands opposite that line. Withdrawals were
accordingly made August 13, 1870, and October 27, 1870, and
they embraced' the lands here in controversy. The bill referred to these maps as maps of "general route," but in an
amended bill the Government reserved the -ight to insist, if
it should be thereafter advised to do so,.that the map filed
Aigust 4, 1870, and the one filed March 6, 1865, "were maps'
of definite location of said Northern Pacific Railroad of its
line from Wallulla Junction to Portland, Oregon."
There never was any withdrawal of indemnity lands on the
prdposed line betweei Walula and Portland, nor any deftnite
location or construction of the road of th' Northern Pacific
Railroad Company- opposite to the lands in suit.
Proceeding to the consideration of the case upon its metits,
we observe that many questions of difficulty and importance
have been discussed by learned counsel both at the bar and
in their printed arguments which we do not deem it necessary
to determine. In our jidgment, the case is within a very
narrow compass.
What was the extent of the grant of public lands made to
the Northern Pacific Railroad Company by the act of July 2,
1864? That grant did not embrace all the odd-numbered
sections within the exterior lines of any general route that
might have been adopted by the company, nor all within the
forty miles in width that might have -been surveyed under
the order of the President (§ 6) on each side of the entire line
of the road after such general route had been designated. It
was in the nature of a "float," no right or title to any particular section becoming certain until a definite lQcation of
route. .tissouri, Eansas & Texas Railway v. ffansas Pac.
Railway, 97 U. S. 491; Grinnell v. Railroad Co., 103 U. S.
739, 742; 'Fan Wyce v. Xnevals, 106 U. S. 360, 366; Kansas
Pacific Railway v. Dunmeyer, 113 U. S. 629, 634; Wiconsin
Central Railroad v.- Price County,'133 U..'S. 496; .Deseret

UNITED STATES v. OREGON &c. RILROAD CO.

43

Opinion of the Court.

Salt Co. v. Tarpey, 142 U. S. 241; Sioux City Land Co. v.
Grif"ey, 143 U. S. 32, 38; United States v. Southern Pactc
Railroad, 146 U. S. 570, 594; .lenotti v. Dillon, 167 U. S.
703, 719; Southern Paoidc Railroad v. United States, 168
U. S. 1.
In Buttz v. NPlorthern Pacific Railroad, 119 U. S; 55, 71,
72, this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Field, referred to the
act of 1864 .and said that it contemplated "the filing by the
company, in the office of the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, of a map showing the definite location of the
line of its road, and limits the grant to such alternate odd
sections as have jf.t, at that time, been reserved, sold, granted
or otherwise aipropriated, and free from pre~mption,. grant
or other claims oit rights. . . . Nor is there anything
inconsistentwiV.h.this view of the sixth section as to the general route, in the clause in the third section making the grant
operative. onyupon siuch odd sections as have not been reserved, sold, granted or otherwise appropriated, arid to which
preemption a'id .other rights and claims have not attached,
when a may of the definite location has been filed."
In United States v. Northern Pacific Railroad Company,
152 U. S. 284, 296, it was held that "the act of 1864 granted
to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company only public lands
to which the United States had full title, not reserved, sold,
graned or otherwise appropriated, and free from preemption
or other claims or rights at the time its line of road was definitelyfied, and a plat thereof filed in the office of the CoimSubsequently in
missioner of the General Land Office."
Northern Pacific Railroad v. Sanders, 166 U. S. 620, 629, it
wag said that "the act of July 2, 1864, under which the railroad company claims title excluded from the grant made by
it all lands that were not, at the time the line of the road was
definitely fled, free from premption or other claims or
rights."
If therefore the Perham map of 1865 were conceded for
the purposes'of the present discussion to have been sufficient
as a map of "general route" - and nothing more can possibly
be claimed for it -these lands could not be regarded as hay-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

ing been brought by that map (even if it had been accepted)
within the grant to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company,
and thereby have become so segregated from the public domain as to preclude the possibility of their being earned by
other railroad companies under statutes enacted by Congress
after the filing of that map and before any definite location
by the company of its line.
There are some general expressions in Buttz y. _Northern
Pacific Railroad, above cited, which, counsel insists, indicate a different view. In that case Xr. Justice Field said
that when the general route of the Northern Pacific Rail-road was fixed and information thereof given to the Land
Department by filing the map of such route, "the law withdraws from sale or preemption the odd sections to the extent
of forty miles on each side. The object of the law in this particular is plain: it is to preserve the land fbr the company to
which, in aid of the construction -of the road, it is granted."
This language was too broad if it is construed to express'the
thought that public lands, when within the exterior lines of a
"general route," are "appropriated " from the time the map
of such route is filed, so as to prevent them from being
granted by Congress to and from being earned by another
railroad corporation prior to the filing of a map of definite
location by the company designating such general'route. In
Nforthern Pacific Railroad v. Sanders, 166 U.-S. 620, 634, 635,
636, this court, refbrring to the act of July 2, 1864-, said:
"The company acquired, by fixing its general route, only an
inchoate right to the odd-numbered sections granted by Congress, and no right attached to any specific section until .the
road- was definitely located and the map thereof filed and accepted. Until such definite location it was competent for
Congress to dispose of the public lands on the general route
of the road as it saw proper. Provision for indemnification of
the company in such an emergency was made by a clause id
the act of 1864,. providing that wherever, prior to the date of
definite location; ' any of said sections or parts of sections shall
have beeii.granted, sold, reserved, occupied by homestead setters, or preempted or otherwise disposed of, other lands shall

UNITED STATES v. OREGON &c. RAILIOAD CO.

45

Opinion of the Court.

be selected by said company in lieu thereof, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, in alternate sections, and
designated by odd numbers, not more than tbn miles. beyond
the limits of such alternate' sections.' 13 Stat. 368. Hence
it was said in Ba'den 'v. Northiern Pacific Railroad Coryany, 154 U. S. 288, 320, in which case the act of 1864 was
construed, that the privilege of exploring for mineral lands
was in full force at the time of the location of the definite
lines of the road, and was a right reserved and excepted out
of the grant at that time." In the same case it was also observed: "Much was said at the bar as to the decision of this
court in Buttz v. .Northern Pacifio Railroad, 119 U. S. 55.
On one side it is said that that case construes the sixth section
of. the act of 1864 as excluding the possibility of \any right
being acquired adversely to the railroad company to an oddnumbered section embraced by the 'exterior lines of the general route after that route had been established. On the other
side it is contended that the only point necessary to be determined and the only onQ judicially determined in that case was
that the defendant could not initiate a preimption right to
the land there in dispute so long as the Indian title referred
to in the opinion was unextinguished. Without stopping to
examine these contentions, it is sufficient to say that the Buttz
case involved no inquiry as to the respective rights of the railroad company tinder the act of 1864 and of parties making
applications in due form prior to the definite location of its
road to purchase lands as mineral lands that were within the
exterior lines of its general route. Mr. Justice Field delivered the opinion in the Butttz case, afid, speaking for the court
in Barden v. Northern Pacific Railroad Co.mpany, above cited,
,stated that the grant in that act excepted the privilege of exploring for mineral lands. For the reasons stated we adjudge
that the lands in question were excluded from the grant of 1864
by reason of the pendency of record, at the time of the definite
location of the plaintiff's road, of application to purchase them
as mineral lands, such applications being in the form prescribed
by the acts of Congress that related to such lands; and undetermined when the company filed its map of definite location."'

46

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opiion of the Court.

We take it then to be indisputable that even if the Perham
map of 1865 were regarded as a sufficient map of the "general
*route" of the Northern Pacific Railroad, and not, to use the
,language of Judge Ross in this case, a mere sketch or diagram
unauthenticated by any engineer or officer charged with the
duty of designating such a route, nothing stood in the way of
Congregs granting to another railroad company any lands
within the -exterior lines of that route, by a statute passed
after such map was filed in the Land Department and before
a definite location of the Northern Pacific Railroad. 'Such a
statute was that of July 25, 1866, granting lands to Aid in the
c6nstruction of a .railroad from the Central Pacific Railroad
in' California to Portland, Oregon. That the lands here in
dispute -' even if within the general route of the Northern
Pacific Railroad as defined by the Perham map (f 1865 - are
.within"the exterior limits of the grant to th. Oregon Company
contained in the subsequent act of 1866, is expressly averred
in the bill filed by the United States.
Upon the question whether it was within the power of Congress to have granted to the Oregon Company in 1866 lands
embraced within the exterior lines of the general route as
defined by the Perham map of 1865, reference heed only be
made to United States v. Union Paift Railway, 160 U. S.
1, "33, and Zlfenotti v. Dillon, 167 U. S. 703, .719-720.
In .fenotti v. Dillon, the principal question was as to the
rights acquired by a railroad company in virtue of its having
filed its map of general route and the withdrawal by executive
order of certain lands within the- exterior lines of that route"
from preemption, private entry and sale - all before the
passage of -a subsequent act under which one of the parties
claimed title to the land in dispute, the other claiming under
the railroad company. This court said: "It is said that the
railroad company filed itsmap of general route on the 8th of
December, 1864, and that these lands having been withdrawn
from preemption, private entry and sale by the executive order
of January 30, 1865, they were not embraced by the act of
1866. In our opinion this is not a proper interpretation of
that act. The proviso of the first. section distinctly indicates

UNITED STATES v. OREGON &c. RAILROAD CO.

4,-

Opinion of the Court.

certain cases to wli'ch the act should not apply; and,-distinctly excluding those cases, but no others, from its operation, the act, in express words, confirmed to the State,' in.all'
cases,' lands which the State had theretofore selected in satisfaction of any grant by Congress and sold to purchasers in
good faith under its laws. NJo exception is made of lands
which, at the date of the passage of the act, were withdrawn*
from preemption, private entry and sale pursuant to the filing
by the railroad company of its map of, general route. And the
court should not construe the act as excluding lands in that.
condition, unless it is.
prepared to hold that Congress had nd
power to confirm to the State lands which, at the time, were
simply withdrawn from preemption, private entry or sale for
railroad purposes. We cannot so adjudge. The withdrawal
order of January 30, 1865, did not, in our judgment, stald
in the way of the passage of' such an act as that of 1866 ;
first, because the acts of 1862 and 1864: by necessary implication recognized the right of Congress to dispose of the odd:
numbered sections, or any of them, within certain limits on
each side of 'the road, at any time prior to the definite location of the line of thd railroad; second, Congress reserved the
power to alter, amend or repeal each act; third, the filing of
the map of general route gave the railroad company no claim
to any specific lands within the exterior limits of such route
on either side of the road, the rule being that a grant of 'public lands in aid of the constrction of a*railroad -is, until its
route is established, in the nature of a ' float,' and title does
not attach to specific sections until they are identified by an
accepted map of definite location of the line of road to be constructed. The railroad company accepted the grant subject
to the possibility that Congress might, in its discretion, and
prior to the definite location of its line, sell, reserve or dispose
of enumerated sections for other purposes than those originally
contemplated. .Kansas Pacific Railway v. Dunmeyer, 113
U. S. 629, 639, 644; United 'States v. Southern Paift
Railroad, 146 U. S. 570, 593. In .Northern Paoifi Railroad v.
Sanders, 166 U. S. 620, 631, we said: 'The company acquired,
by fixing its general route, only an inchoate right to the odd.

OCTOBER TERI, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

numbered sections granted by Congtess, and no right attached
to any specific section until the road was definitely located,
and the map thereof ,filed and accepted. Until such definite
location it was competent for Congress to dispose of the public lands on the general route of the road as it saw proper.'
Again in the same case: "It is true, as said in many cases,
that the object of an executive order withdrawing from preemption, private entry and sale lands within the general route
of a railroad is to preserve the lands unincumbere'd until the
completion and acceptance of the road. But where the grant
was, as here, of odd-numbered sections, within certain exterior
lines, 'not sold, reserved or otherwise disposed of by the
United States, and to which a preemption or homestead claim
may not have attached, at the time the line of said road is
definitely fixed,' the filing of'a map of general route and the
issuing of a withdrawal order did not prevent the United
States, by legislation at any time prior to the definite location
of the road, from selling, reserving or otherwise disposing of
any of the lands which, but for such legislation, would have
become, in virtue of such definite location, the property of the
railroad company. Especially must this be true where the
grant is made subject to the reserved power of Congress to
add to, alter, amend or repeal the act containing such grant.
The act of 1866 did not take from the railroad company any
lands to which it had then acquired an absolute right. The
right it acquired in virtue of the act making the grant and of
the accepted map of its general route was to earn such of the
lands within the exterior lines of that route as,were not sold,
reserved or disposed of, or to which no preemption or homestead claim had attached, at the time of the definite location
of its road. The act did not violate any contract between the
United States and the railroad company, for the reason that
the contract itself recognized the right of Congress, at any
time before the line of road was definitely located, to dispose
of odd-numbered sections granted. It was one that disposed
of the lands in question before the definite -location of the
road. It dedicated these ahd like lands, part of the public
domain, to the specific purposes stated inits provisions, and to

UNITED STATES v. OREGON &c. RAILROAD CO.

49

Opinion of the Court.

that extent removed the restrictions created by the withdrawal
order of 1865, leaving that order in full f6rce as to other lands
embraced by it. Bullard v. Des .2oines & -FortDodge Bailroad, 122 U. S. 167, 174. That order took these lands out
of the public domain as between the railroad company and
individuals, but they remained public landsunder the full control of Congress, to be disposed of by it in its discretion at
any time before they became the property of the company
under an accepted definite location of its road. We cannot
doubt that the act of 1866 was a legal exertion of the power
of Congress over the public domain."
As the grant contained in the act of July 2, 1864, did not
include any lands that had been reserved, sold, granted or
otherwise appropriated at ihe time the line of the Northern
Pacific Railroad was "definitely fixed ;" as the route of the
Northern Pacific Railroad had not been definitely fixed at the
time the act of July 25, .1866, was passed, or when the line
of the Oregon Company was definitely located; as the lands
in dispu'te are within the limits of the grant contained in the
act of 1866; as the route of the Oregon Railroad was definitely fixed, at least when the map showifig that route was
accepted by the Secretary of the Interior on the 29th day of
January, 18.70- the Northern Pacific Railroad Company having done nothing prior to the latter date except to file the
Perham map of 1865; and as prior to the forfeiture act of
September 29, 1890, .there had not been any definite location
of the Northern Pacific Railroad opposite the lands in dispute,
there ip no escape from the conclusion that'these lands were
lawfully earned by the Oregon Company and were rightly
patented to it.
Of course, if the route of the Northern
Pacific road had been definitely located before the act of 1890
was passed, and had embraced the lands in dispute, different
questions would have been presented.
In opposition to the views. we have expressed it may be said
that the clause in the act of July 25, 1866, providing for the
selection under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior
of lands for the Oregon Company in lieu of any that should
"be found to have been granted, sold, reserved, occupied by
VOL. Cmxxvi-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

homestead sellers, preempted or otherwise disposed of," shows
that Congress did not intend to include in but intended to
exclude from the grant to that company any lands that could
have been earned by the Northern Pacific Railroad Company
by definitely fixing its route and filing jts map of definite
location. Undoubtedly those lands would be regarded as having been appropriated when the route of the Oregon road
was definitely located, if prior to that date the route of the
Northern Pacific Railroad had' been definitely fixed, and if
such lands were within the exterior lines of that route. But,
as we have said, these lands were within the limits of the grant
of July 25, 1866, and had not, at that time, or when the route
of the Oregon road was definitely located, been appropriated
for the benefit of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, for
the reason that the latter company had not then filed any
map of definite location.
The Northern Pacific Railroad
Company could take no lands except such as were unappropriated at the time its line was definitely fixed. It accepted the
grant of 1864 subject to the possibility that Congress might,
before its line was definitely fixed, authorize other railroad
corporations to appropriate lands within its general route,
allowing it to select other lands in lieu of any so appropriated.
The lands here in dispute were eoisequently subject to be disposed of by Congress when the act of 1866 was passed - and
(the line of the Northern Pacific Railroad not having .been
definitely located prior to the passage of the forfeiture act of
1890) the Oregon Company became entitled to take the lands
and to receive patents therefor in virtue ol its accepted map
of definite location.
Touching. the joint resolution of May 31, .1870, it is clear
that whatever may be its scope, no previously vested right of
the Oregon Company was affected or was intended to be
affected by that resolution. On the contrary, the.-esolution
on its face indicates that some of the lands which the Northern Pacific Railroad Company may have been entitled to earn
had been or might have been granted or otherwise disposed of
"subsequent to the passage of the act of July 2, 1864," and in
lieu thereof that company was authorized'.under the direction

WILCOX v. EASTERN OREGON LAND COMPANY. 61
Opinion of the Court.

of the Secretary of the Interior to receive other lands. The
only effect therefore of the joint resolution, as between th
Northern Pacific Railroad Company and ihe Oregon Company, was to confer upon the former company the right "to
receive other lands in lieu of those appropriated by the latter
company under the authority of the act of 1866.
Passing by as unnecessary to be determined other questions
discussed by counsel, we adjudge that the Circuit Court erred
in cancelling the patents referred to in the bill, and that the.
reversal by the Circuit Court of Appeals of the decree of the
Circuit Court and the remanding of the cause with directions
to dismiss the bill was right.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is

Ajlrmed.

Mi. JusTicE MKOENNA did not participate in the decision of
this case.

WILCOX v. EASTERN OREGON LAND COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM VIE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 23. Submitted November 15, 1897. -Decided

January 8,1900.

The judgment in this case affirmed upon the authority of United States v.
Oregon and CaliforniaRailroad Cornpuny.

THE facts are stated in the opinion. The case was submitted
November 15, 1897, and was, on the 29th of the same month,
postponed until The United States v. Oregon &f California
Railroad Co., ante, 28, should be heard.

.A'. John . Geavin for appellant.
.Ar. James K

Zelly for appellees.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAx delivered the opinion of the court.
This case depends in part upon the construction of the act
of Congress of July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 365, c. 217, in aid of the

17&0
f176 59
*176 59

