CHICAGO,

IILWAUKEE &c. RWY v. TO]fPKINS.

167

Syllabus.

the denomination ,of root flour which were not specially declared in the act to be free from duty, and the dropping of the
root flour from the free list might relegate such flour to the
dutiable list. Not so as to tapioca flour which is still found
in the free list. The omission of root flour from the free
list, therefore, had no effect upon tapioca flour,.and if there
had been an intention to include it in the dutiable list, epecially after these repeated decisions of the Treasury that it was
entitled to free admission as tapioca, we cannot but believe,
that Congress would have expressed that intention with reasonable clearness.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Ninth
Circuit should be reversed, and that of the Circuit CoUrt
for the Northern -Districtof California affirmed, and the
case remanded to

that court with such direotionsq, and it is

so ordered.

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE AND ST. PAUL RAILWAY
COMPANY v. TOMPKINS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH DAKOTA.
No. 181. Argued October 81, November 1, 1899. -Decided

January 22, 1900.

The State of South Dakota having passed an act providing for the appointment of a board of railroad commissioners, and authorizing that board
to make a schedule of reasonable maximum fares and charges for the
transportation of passengers, freight and cars on the railroads within
the State, provided that the maximum charge for the carriage of passengers on roads 5f the standard gauge should not be greater than three
cents per mile; and that board having acted in accordance with-the
statute, and having published its schedule of maximum charges, the
Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Comoany filed the bill in this
case in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of South
Dakota, seeking to restrain the enforcement of the schedule. The railroad commissioners answered fully, and testimony was taken before an
examiner upon the issues made by the pleadings. This testimony was
reported without findings of fact or conclusion of law. The case Went

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.
to hearing. The ludge, without the.ald of a master, examined the pleadings and tne.mass of proof. He made findings of fact and conclusions
.of law; delivered an opinion i and rendered a decree dismissing the bill.
This court is of opinion:
(1) That neither the findings made by the court, nor such facts as are
stated in its opinion, are sufficient to warrant a conclusion upon
the question whether the-rates prescribed by the defendants were
unreasonable or not, and that the process by which the court
came to its conclusion is not one wich can be relied upon;
(2) That there was error in the failure to find the cost of doing the
local business, and that only by a comparison between the gross
receipts and the cost of doing the business, ascertaining thus the
net earnings, can the true effect of the reduction of rates be
determined;
(3) That the better practice would be to refer the testimony, when
taken, to the most competent and reliable master, general or
special, that can .befound, to make all needed computations, and
find fully the facts ; so that this court, if it should be called upon
to examine the testimony, may have the benefit of the services of
such master.

ON February 3, 1897, -the legislature of South 'Dakota
passed an act relating to common carriers. Laws of 1897, c.
110. The act provided for the appointment of a board of
railroad commissioners, and by section 20 this board was
authorized to make a schedule of reasonable maximum fares
and charges for the transportation of passengers, freight and
cars on tb-e railroads within the State. There was a proviso
'inthe se6tion that the maximum charge for the carriage of
passengers on roads of standard gauge should not be greater
than three cents per mile. On August 26, 1897, the board
of railrqad commissioners, having taken the preliminary steps
required by the statute in respect to notice, etc., made and
its schedule of maximum charges for the control of
-all local railroads. On the next* day the Chicago, Milwaukee
and St. Paul Railroad Cpmpany, Plaintiff and appellant, filed
its bill in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of South Dakota, seeking to restrain the enforcement
,.of such schedulb. The bill alleged generally that the existing
rates were fair and reasonable; that those established by the
railroad commissioners were unjust and unreasonable; would
not only fail to afford the plaintiff adequate compensation for
-published

-

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE &c. IA'Y v. TOMPKINS.

169

Statement of the Case.

the services to be performed, but also would operate to deprive it of its property without just compensation. The railroad commissioners filed their answer on October 4, 1897, in
which they alleged that the existing rates were extortionate
and unreasonably high-in many instances so high as to
prohibit the shipment of ordinary products; that the freight
rates were much higher than those charged by the complainant company for similar services upon its lines of railway
in other and adjoining States, being about ninety per cent
higher than the rates charged in the State of Iowa; that the
passenger rates were at least, twenty-five per cent higher
than those charged by the plaintiff over its lines of railway
in other States, and much higher than those charged by other
railway companies for like transportation in other States. In
addition to these matters the answer averred that the plaintiff
and the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company were
owners of competing lines of railway, running westerly from
Chicago and traversing the States of Illinois, Wisconsin, .innesota and Iowa; that during the years from 1880 to 1883 as
competing companies they constructed their lines of railway
into and.through that part of the then Territory of Dakota,
now the State of South Dakota ; that at that time there were
no people, business or industry to be accommodated or served
by the construction of said lines of railway, and that'the-construction was not in response to any existing demand for the
same, but was for the purpose of preempting and occupying
the Territory in anticipation of its settlement andt developinent; that a rapid occupation followed such extension of
railroad lines, and a large immigration flowed into the Territory; that this rapid immigration ceased in 1884, and that
many of the settlers disappeared in the years following, so
that in certain ,portions of the Territory there was almost a
depopulation; that going in thus early the plaintiff acqiufred
its right of way, depots and terminal grounds at a substantially nominal cost; that the capitalization of the railroad, in
stocks and bonds, was fixed during this period of excitement
and rapid immigration, had never been changed, and was
extravagantly high. The answer also contrasted the value of,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

-

the property as shown by such capitalization in stocks and
bonds and that returned by the railroad company to the
State for the purposes of taxation. It also averred that the
Dakota lines were of much greater earning value to complainant than the mere pro~rata mileage of the lines in that State
would indicate, and that no account had been taken or allowance made for the value to the plaintiff of the long haul business done on other parts of its lines afforded by the interstate
business running into Dakota. Upon the issue thus presented
by these pleadings testimony was taken before an examiner.
This testimony is preserved in the record, and amounts to
several hundred printed- pages. The examiner simply reported
the testimony, without any findings of fact or conclusions of
law. The case went to hearing before the District Judge,
who, without the aid of a master, examined the pleadings
-and this volume of testimony, and, on July 20, .1898, rendered
a decree dismissing plaintiff's bill., 90 Fed. Rep. 363. Besides
delivering an opinion, the court made the following findings
of facts and conclusion of laW:
1 "This cause came on to be heard upon the pleadings
and
proofs at this term and was argued by counsel;. and therenpon, upon consideration thereof, the court finds the following facts:
"I. That the value of complainant's property in the State
of South DMkota is ten million dbllars.
"H. That the fair value of the proportion of complainant's
said property assignable to local traffic was, for the year ending June 30, 1894, $2,200,000, and for the year ending June
30, 1895, $2,600,000, and for the year ending. June 30, 1896,
$2,100,000, and for the year ending June 30, 1897, $1,900,000.
"III. That the gross local earnings of complainant in the
State of South Dakota for the fiscal year ending June 30,
1894, was $407,606.35, and for the year ending June 30, 1895,
was $330,642.85, and for the year ending June 30, 1896, was
$328,105.95, and, for the 'year ending June 30, 1897, was
$311,085.42.
" IV. That the local earnings on the complainant's lines
under existing tariffs, on the same proportion of the total

WHICAGO, MILWAUKEE &c. R'Y v. TOMPKINS.

[71

Statement of the Case.

value of the roads in South Dakota as the local .earnings bear
to the gross earnings from all sources in South Dakota, were:
For the year 1894, 18.5 per cent; for the year 1895, 12.7 per
cent; for the year 1896, 15.6 per cent; for the jear 1897,
16.3 per cent.
"'V. That applying the schedule of rates sought to be enjoined in this action to the local traffic during the years
above mentioned, on the same method of calculation, the
value of complainant's property assignable to local traffic
would be for the years ending June 30, 1894, $1,900,000;
June 30, 1895, $2,300,000; June 30, 1896, $1,800,000; June
80, 1897, $1,600,000.
"VI. Under the commissioners' schedule the gross earnings from local traffic would have amounted to the sum
of $342,381.98 for the year ending June 30, 1894, and
$277,518.40 for the year ending June 30, 1895, and $275,607.79
for the year ending June 30, 1896, and $261,295.21 for the
year ending June 30, 1897.
"VII. That these earnings for the fiscal year 1894 would
equal 18% of the value thus ascertained, and for the year
1895 would equal 12.1%, and for the year 1896 would equal
15.3%, and for the year 1897 would equal 16.2%.
"VIII. That owing to the small difference between the percentage earned under the complainant's schedule of rates and
fares and the commissioners' schedule of rates and fares for the
four years prior to the commencement.of this suit, and owing
further to the amount of the percentages which would have been
earned during said four years under the commissioners' schedule, the court is unable to find beyond. a reasonable doubt that
the local earnings under said commissioners' schedule would
not during the years aforesaid have earned the reasonable
cost of earning said local earnings and some reward to the
owner of the property over and above said cost of operation.
"IX. That the court is unable to find from the testimony
what the actual cost of earning the local earnings for the
fiscal years endingJun6 30, 1894, 1895, 1896 and 1897 was.
"X. As a conclusion of law the court finds that the enforcement of the proposed schedule of reasonable maximum rates

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

and fares will not deprive the complainant of its property
without due process of law or deprive it of the equal protection of the laws, or operate to take the property of complainant for public use without just compensation."
From the decree thus entered the plaintiff took its appeal
to this court.
.Xr.4r B. Kittredge and Mr. George R. Peck for appellant.
'. T. . Null'and .1. John L. _Pyle for appellees.
W 19. TempZe was on their brief.

.36.

MR. Jusmorp BaRwwR delivered the opinion of the court.

Few cases are more difficult or perplexing than those which
involve an inquiry whether the rates prescribed by a state
legislature for - the carriage of passengers and freight arI
unreasonable. And yet this difficulty affords no excuse for a
failure to examine and solve the questions involved. It has
often been said that this is a government of laws and not of
men; and by this court, in Yiok To v. HIopkin8, 118 U. S.
356, 369: "When we consider the nature and the thdory of
our institutions of government, the principles upon which they
are supposed to rest, and review the history of their development, we are constrained to conclude that they do not mean
to leave room for the play and action of purely personal and
arbitrary power."
When we recall that, as estimated, over ten thousand
millions of dollars are invested in railroad property, the proposition that such a vast amount of property is beyond the
protecting clauses of. the Constitution, that the owners nfay
be deprived of it by the arbitrary enactment of any legislature,
state or nation, without any right of appeal to the courts, is
one which cannot for a moment be tolerated. Difficult as are
the questions involved in these cases, burdensome as the labor
is which they cast upon the courts, no tribunal can hesitate to
respond to.the duty of inquiry and protection cast upon it by
the Constitution. Railroad CornmMo*81n cases, 116 U. S. 307;

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE &c. R'Y v. TOMPKINS.

173

Opinion of the Court.

Dow v. Beidelman, 125 U. S. 680; Georgia Railroad &
Banking Co. v. Smith, 128 U. S. 174; Chicago, .Afilwaukee 6f
St Paul Railway-.v. .innesota,

134: U. S. 418; Chicago

& Grand Trunk Railway v. TFelman, 143 U. S. 339; Reagan
v. Farmers' Loan 6 Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362; St. Loui8 6
San FranciscoRailway v. Gill, 156 U. S. 649; Covington &c.
Turnpike Co. v. Sandford, 164 U. S. 578; Smyth v. Ame;
169 U. S. 466.
It is often said that the legislature is presumed to act with
full knowledge of the facts upon which its legislation is based.
This is undoubtedly true, but when it is assumed from that, that
its judgment upon those facts is not subject. to investigation;
the inference is carried too far. Doubtless upon mere questions of policy its conclusions are beyond judicial consideration.
Courts may not inquire whether any given act is wise or
unwise, and only when such act trespasses upon vested rights
may the courts intervene. A single illustration will make
this clear: It is within the competency of the legislature to
determine whepi and what property shall be taken for
public uses. That question is one of policy over which the.
courts have no supervision ; but if after determining that certain property shall be taken for public uses the legislature proceeds further, and declares that only a certain price shall be
paid for it, then the owner may challenge the validity of that*
part of the act, may contend that his property is taken without due compensation; and the legislative determination of
value does not preclude an investigation in the proper judicial
tribunals. The same principle applies when vested rights of
property are disturbed by a legislative enactment in respect to
rates.
In approaching the consideration- of a case of this kind )re
start with the presumption that the act of the legislature is
valid, and *uponany company seeking to challenge its validity
rests the burden of proving that it infringes the constitutional
guarantee of protection to property. The case must be a clear
one in behalf of the railroad company or the legislation of the
State must be upheld.
Such being unquestionably the law, it is obviously of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

utmost importance that the facts shall be clearly and accurately found and distinctly stated by the trial court, and that
those facts shall sustain the conclusion reached.
We are of opinion that neither the findings made by the
c6urt, nor such facts as are stated in its opinion, are sufficient to warrant a conclusion upon the question whether
the rates prescribed by the defendants were unreasonable or
not; and we are also of opinion that the process by which the
court came to its conclusion is not one which can be relied
upon. The court proceeded upon the theory that a comparison of the actual gross receipts of the company from its SouthDakota local business with those which it would have received
if the rates prescribed by the defendants had been in force was
sufficient to determine the question of the reasonableness of
these latter rates, and instituted such comparison with respect
to-the four years preceding the commenc6ment of this suit.
Now, it is obvious that the amount of gross receipts from any
business does not of itself determine whether such business is
profitable or not. The question of expenses incurred in producing those receipts must be always taken into account, and
only by striking the balance between the two can it be determined that the business is profitable. The gross receipts may
be large, but if the expenses are larger surely the business is
not profitable. It cannot be said that the rates which a legislature prescribes are reasonable if the railroad company charging only those *rates finds the necessary expenses of carrying
on its business greater than its receipts.
In the light of these general and dbvious propositions we
proceed to examine the computations and .reasoning of the
court. For reasons which will be apparent hereafter we do
not stop to inquire whether its firfdings are correct deductions
from the testimony, but take them as they are stated. It may
be premised that the books of the plaintiff,*showing its business for the four years, were examined, and so much as wag
deemed necessary admitted in evidence. From those books
was disclosed with mathematical accuracy the gross receipts
of the company on all its business in all the States during each
of the four years and the actual cost of doing that business

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE &c. R'y v. TOMPKINS.

175

Opinion of the Court.

during each of those years; also the gross receipts from the
business done in South Dakota, and separately the amount
which was received in that State from interstate business and
that from local. If the schedule of rates prescribed by the defendants had been in force during the four years, and the
same amount of business had been done by the company, the
reduction in gross receipts from the passenger business would
have been fifteen per cent, and from the freight business seventeen per cent. Of course, the cost of doing the business would
be substantially the same. The court found the value of the
plaintiff's property in South Dakota to be $10,000,000, although, according to the testimony, it was bonded for over
$19,000,000. It held that it was not fair to consider that sum,
$10,000,000, the value of the property employed in doing local
business, for it was also used in doing interstate business; and
that the true way to determine the valu of the property which
could be regarded as employed in local business was by dividing the total value of $10,000,000 in the same proportion that
existed between the amount, of gross receipts from interstate
business and that from local business, each of which amounts
was, as we have seen, accurately shown by the testimony.
Upon that basis of division it found that the value of the
company's property employed in local business was for the
first-year, $2,200,000; the second year, $2,600,000; the third
year, $2,100,000; and the last year, $1,900,000, and also that
the gross receipts from local business were for the first year,
18.5 per cent of the valuation; for the second year, 12.1 per
cent; for the third year, 15.6 per cent, and for the last year,
16.3 per cent. In other words, for these several years the
company received as compensation for doing its local business
the per cent named of the real value of the property used in
doing that business. Then, proceeding on the supposition that
the defendants' schedule had been in force and the rates reduced as therein prescribed during these four years, it divided
the valuation of $10,000,000 on the like proportion of. the
receipts from interstate business to the receipts from local'
business as thus diminished, and upon such division found
that the valuation of the plaintiff's property engaged in local

176

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

business would have been, for the first year, $1,900,000; for
the second year, $2,300,000; for the third year, $1,800,000;
and the last year, $1,600,000; and upbn such basis that the
gross receipts from local business would have amounted to
18 per cent of the value of the property for the first year, 12.1
for the second, 15.3 for the third, and 16.2 for the'last. Upon
this it held that the difference between the per cent of receipts
in the two cases was slight, and that there was no change in
what may rightfully be called the earning capacity of the
property sufficient to justify a declaration that the reduced
rates prescribad were unreasonable. In other words,.it was
of the opinion that the earning capacity was so slightly reduced that it could not be affirmed that the new rates were
unreasonable.
But that there was some fallacy in this reasoning would
seem to be suggested by the fact that although the defendants' schedule would have reduced the actual receipts 15 per
cent on the passenger and 17 per cent on the freight business, the earning capacity for the last year was diminished
only one tenth of one per cent. Such a result indicates that
there is something wrong in the process by which the conclusion is reached. That there was, can be made apparent by
further computations, and in them we will take even numbers
as more easy of comprehension. Suppose the total value of
the property in South Dakota was $10,000,000, and the total
receipts both from interstate and local business were $1,000,000;
one half from each. Then, according to the methyd pursued by
the trial court, the value of the property used in earning local
receipts would be $5,000,000, and the per cent of receipts to
value would b 10 per cent.' The interstate receipts being
unchanged, let the local receipts by a proposed schedule be
reduced to one ffth of what they had -been, so th6.t. instead
of receiving $500,000 the company only recei.ves $100,000.
The total receipts for,interstate and local business being then
$600,000, the valuation of $10,000,000, divided between the
*two, would give to the property engaged in earning interstate
receipts in. round numbers $8,333,000, and to that engaged in
earning local receipts $1,667,000. But if $1,661,000 worth

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE &c. RWY v. TOMPKINf.

177

Opinion of the Court.

of property earns $100,000 it earns six per cent. In other
words, although the actual receipts from local business are
only one fifth of what they were, the earning capacity is
three fifths of what it was. And turiiing to .the other side
of the problem, it appears that if the value of the property
engaged in interstate business is to be taken as $8,333,000,
and it earned $500,000, its earning capacity was the same as
that employed in local business -six per cent. So that although the rates fol interstate business be undisturbed, the
process by which the trial court reached its conclusion discloses the same reduction in the earning capacity of the property employed in interstate business as in that employed in
local business, in which the rates are reduced.
Again, in another way, the error of the court's computation
is manifested. The testimony discloses that tbe.operating
expenses of the entire system during each of the four years
were over 60 per cent of the gross. receipts. -If the ccst of
doing local business in South Dakota-vas the same as that of
doing the total business of the company, then the net earnings
of that local business would not exceed 40 per cent of the gross
receipts
Reduce the gross receipts 15 per cent - and the
reduction by the defendants' rates was 15 per cent on passengers and 11 per cent on freight business -it Would leave only
25 per cent of the gross receipts as what might be called net
earnings, to be applied to the payment of interest on bonds
and dividends on stock. But the testimony shows that the
cost of doing local business is much greater than that of doing
through business. If it should be 85 per cent of the gross receipts (and there was testimony tending to show that it was
as much if not more) then a reduction of 15 per cent in the
gross receipts would leave the property earning nothing morb
than expenses of operatiqn. These computations show that
the method'which the court pursued was erroneous, and thal
without a finding as to the cost of doing the local business it is
impossible to determine whether the reduced rates prescribed
by the defendants were unreasonable or not.
But here we are confronted by the ninth statement in the'
findings of fact, to wit, "that the court is unable to .find from
vol. crxxn-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the testimony what the actual cost of earning the local
earnings for the fiscal years ending June 30, 1894, 1895, 1896
and 1897 was." If the court meant by that to say that there
was no testimony tending to show what was the cost of doing
local business, we are constrained to say that the statement is
erroneous, because there was abundance of testimony bearing
upon that question. If it meant simply that it could not determine that fact with mathematical accuracy, basing it upon
testimony of the exact amount of money paid out for doing
such work, it is undoubtedly true, but there are many things
that have to be determined by court and jury in respect to
which mathematical accuracy is not possible. Take the ordinary case of condemnation of real estate, the value is to be
determined by the trial tribunal, whether jury or court, and
yet no one is able to state the exact value. In this very case
the court fixed the value of the company's property in South
Dakota at $10,000,000, and yet it is impossible from the testimony to say that this conclusion was absolutely accurate, that
there was testimony tending to show to a dollar such value.
Beyond the figures given from the books of the company of
the actual cost of doing the total business of the company there
was the testimony of several experts as to the relative cost of
doing local and through business. Such testimonyis not to
be disregarded simply because it cannot demonstrate by figures the exact amount or per cent of the extra cost. It is
obvious on a little reflection that the cost of moving local
freight is greater than that of moving through freight, and
equally obvious that it is almost if not quite impossible to
determine the difference with mathematical accuracy. Take
a single line of 100 miles, with ten stations. One train starts
from one terminus with through freight and goes to the other
without stop. A second train starts with freight for each intermediate station. The mileage is the same. The amount
of freight hauled per mile may be the same, but the time
taken by the one is greater than that taken by the other.
Additional fuel is consumed at each station where there is a
stop. The wear and tear of the locomotive and cars from the
increased stops and in shifting cars from main to side tracks

CHICAGO,

IILWAUKEE &c. R'Y v. TOMPKIffS.

179

Opinion of the Court.

is greater; *thereare the wages of the employ~s at the ifitermediate stationg, the cost of insurance, and these elements are
so varying and uncertain that it would seem quite out of
reach to make any accurate comparison of the relative cost.
And if this is true when there are two separate trains, it is more
so when the same train carries both local and thiough freiglt.
It is impossible to distribute between the two the relative-cost
of carriage. Yet that there is a difference is manifest, and
upon such difference the opinions of experts familiar with
railroad business is competent testimony, and- cannot be disregarded:
We think, therefore, there was error in the failure to find
the cost of doing the local business, and that only by a comparison between the gross receipts and the cost Qf doing the
business, ascertaining thus the net earnings, can the true
effect of the reduction of rates be determined.
The question then arises what disposition of the case shall
this court make. Ought we to examine' the testimony, find
the facts, and from those facts, deduce the proper conclusion?
It would doubtless be within the competency of this court
on an appeal in equity to do this, but we are constrained to
think that it would not (particularly in a case like the present)
be the proper course to pursue. This is an appellate court,
and parties have a right to a determination of the facts in the
first instance by the trial court. Doubtless if such determination is challenged on appeal i becomes our duty to examine
the testimony and see if it sustains the findings, but if the
facts found are not challenged by either party then this court
need not go beyond its ordinary appellate duty of considering
whether such facts justified the decree. We think this is one
of those cases in which it is especially important that there
should be a full and clear finding of the facts'by the trial
court. The questions are difficult, the interests are vast, and
therefore the aid of the trial court should be had. The'writer
of this opinion appreciates the difficulties which attend a trial
court in a case like this. In smyth v. Ames, 8upra, a similar
case, -he, as Circuit Judge presiding in the Circuit Court of
Nebraska, undertook the work of examining the testimony,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

making computations, and finding the facts. It was very
laborious, and took several weeks. It was a work which
really ought to have been done by a master. Very likely the
practice pursued by him induced the trial judge in this case
to personally examine the testimony and make the findings.
We are all of opinion that a better practice is to refer the
testimony to some competent master, to make all needed computations, and find fully the facts. It is hardly necessary to
observe that in view of the difficulties and importance of such
a case it is imperative that the most competent and reliable
master, general or special, should be selected, for it is not a
light matter to interfere with the legislation of a State in
respect to the prescribing of rates, nor a light matter to pErmit
such legislation to wreck large property interests.
We are aware that the findings made by the master may
be challenged when presented to the trial court for consideration, and it may become its duty to examine the testimony to
see whether those findings are sustained, as likewise if sustained by the trial court it may become our duty to examine
the testimony for the same purpose. But before we are called
upon to make such examination we think we are entitled to
have the benefit of the services of a competent master and an
approval of his findings by the trial court. As we have said,
those findings may pot be challenged by either party, and if
so a large burden will be taken from the appellate court.
1For these reasons we not merely reverse the decree of the
trial court but also remand the case to that court with
instructions to refer the case to some competent master to

report fully the facts, and to proceed upom such report
as equity shall require.

