OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Counsel for Parties.

for the purpose of protecting his contract caused the stock
to be put in his name on the books as pledgee, it has been
held that such a registry did not amount to a transfer to the
pledgee as owner, and that he therefore was not liable
although the pledgor might continue to be so.' Pauly v.
S t ate .oan. & Trust Co., 165 U. S. 606.
These and other cases unnecessary to be referred to do not
impair, but, on the contrary, serve to prove the general rule.
As in the case now before us the stock remained on the books
in the name of Matteson, continued as a liability of the estate
and was never transferred under the allotment, it follows that
the allottees have no right to complain because the receiver
has availed himself of the provisions of the Minnesota statute.
Judgment ajirmed.

JACKSON v. EMMONS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Wo. 157. Submitted February 2, 1900. -Decided February 26,1900.
On motion of the plaintiff made after commencement of the trial of this
case, a juror was withdrawn, the remaining jurors were dismissed, and
leave was gien to the plaintiff to amend his declaration within a time
named, and the case was continued for the term. Subsequently, on
motion of the defendants' attorney, ipade after notice to plaintiff, the
time within which the amendment could be filed was enlarged, and th;
plaintiff was ordered to pay the costs of the term in which the juror was
withdrawn. The plaintiff declined to pay those costs and the court dismissed the case. Held that the trial court erred in so doing, as whatever conditions or rights the defendants were entitled to in consequence
of the plaintiff's motion should have been asserted and adjudged when
that motion was made.

THE statement of the case will be found in the opinion of
'the court.1
1 r. Joseph . Waters for plaintiff in error.

.r. William F. Jfattingly for defendants in error.

JACKSON v. EMMONS.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JUSTIOE McKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action for damages. The ground of it is injuries
to the wife of the plaintiff in error, and to his house by blast-:
ing rock near the latter..
The allegation is that "by such blasting" the defendant
"unlawfully and forcibly, with great and dangerous violence,
threw large and heavy pieces of said rocky formation from
time to time into the premises . . . and near said ground
occupied and held by said plaintiff under a yearly ground rent,
with other rights and privileges, and against the house and
habitation on said premises, which house was and is owned by
said plaintiff, and was used and- occupied during said period
by said plaintiff and his family as a dwelling."
Damages are laid at'six thousand dollars.
The defendant's plea is not guilty; and further, that the
cause of action did not accrue within three years.
The case came on to trial before a jury, and the record
shows that on December 8, 1897, "after a partial hearing of
the case, the plaintiff by leave of the court withdraws a juror,
and the remaining jurors are discharged from further consideration of the case, with leave to amend his declaration as
advised within twenty days, and the case is continued for the
term."
Subsequently, on motion of the attorney for the defendants,
and after notice to plaintiff, the order limiting plaintiff's time
to amend was rescinded, and he was given twenty days from,
the seventh of January, 1898, to amend his declaration, and
was ordered to pay the costs of the term in which the juror
was withdrawn.
On the 27th of January the plaintiff served on the defendants' attorney the following notice:
"1225 31ST STREET, Jan. 97, 1898.
"WM. F. MATnNGLY, Esq.,
Atty. for Geo. E. Emmons, etc.
"We intended in good faith to chahge or 'amend' our
declaration in the case of Jackson v. Emmons and Smith, so

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

as to avoid unnecessary appeals, but the 'amendment' since
made to the leave giving us, (at your request,) compelling us
to pay unexpected costs, inducesus to elect not to amend now,
especially as on further investigation we are confirmed in the
opinion that Jackson is the legal owner of the house he complains of as damaged, so please notice that we stand upon our
declaration now as originally filed.
"Very respectfully yours,
"J. J. W.TEnS,

"A Uy.for Rob. Jactokon."
On March 8, 1898, the defendants gave notice that they
would move "the court to dismiss the suit or to take such
other action in the premises as may be lawful and proper."
And on the 25th of March the following order was made:
"The plaintiff though granted leave to amend his declaration on the th day of January, 1898, within twenty days, and
that he pay the costs of the October term, 1897, has not so
amended or paid said costs, and it appearing upon the records
that the plaintiff declines to so amend, therefore the defendants move the court to dismiss this suit, which is granted ;
therefore it is considered that the plaintiff take nothing by
suit, and that the defendants go thereof without day and
recover against the plaintiff their costs of defence, to be taxed
by the clerk, and have execution thereof. Penalty of bond on
appeal fixed at $50.00."
On March 26, 1898, the plaintiff moved the court to vacate
the order of dismissal, and supported it by an affidavit of
what had transpired at the trial inducing his action of withdrawing a juror and taking the order to amend his declaration. It is also stated that "Afterwards, before plaintiff's
time to amend had expired, defendants moved to compel him
to pay costs of the past term, being $19.70, as given by the
clerk of the court, as a condition of amending, and affiant
wished time to see if his client could comply with this when
required by the court, so as to avoid controversy, but, finding
his client could not comply in time, as said client is very poor
and a colored laborer and that it was not necessary to his

THE PANAMA.
Syllabus.

case to amend, affiant elected not to do so, and to avoid misunderstanding so informed defendant's counsel by the letter
he exhibits with his motion to dismiss."
The motion to vacate the order dismissing the case was
denied, and the plaintiff took an appeal to the Court of
Appeals, which affirmed the ruling of the lower court, and
this appeal was then taken.
The trial court erred in dismissing the case. If the original
order granting leave to amend had been made conditional
upon the payment of costs the plaintiff might or might not
have accepted it. To decline to amend afterwards upon conditions which were not exacted or even, as far as the records
show, were not contemplated, cannot be. charged against him
as misconduct. Indeed, there is no question of his good faith,
and whatever conditions or rights the defendant was entitled
to in consequence of the motion should have been asserted and
adjudged when the plaintiff's motion was made. If such rights
had been asserted the plaintiff would have had a choice of
yielding or not yielding to them, which afterwards could not
be exercised.
We think, thereore,the judgment of the Court of Appeals
8huld be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded
with directions to reverse the judgment of the Supreme
Court, and it is80 ordered.
17

881
5

177 675

THE PANAMA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 127. Argued November 8,1899. -Decided

February 26, 1900.

No general rule of international law exempts mail ships from capture as
prize of war.
A Spanish mail steamship, carrying mail of the.-United States from New
York to Havana at the time of the breaking out of the recent war with
Spain, was not exempt from capture by the sixth clause of the President's
proclamation of April 26, 1898.

