OCTOBER TERAI, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

HANCOCK NATIONAL BANK v. FARNUM.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF RHODE ISLAND.
No. S9. Argued December 21, 1899.-Decided

March 12, 1900.

A plaintiff, after the recovery of a judgment against a Kansas corporation
in the courts of Kansas, and the return of an execution unsatisfied, can
maintain an action in any court of competent jurisdiction against a stockholder of the corporation to recover in satisfaction of his judgment an
amount not exceeding the par value of the defendant's stock. Whitman
v. Oxford National Bank, ante, 563, followed to this point.
The action of the Supreme Court of Rhode Island in failing to recognize
such right in the plaintiff in error can be revised by proceeding in error
in this court.
The judgment rendered in the Kansas court is in that State conclusive
against the corporation, as well as binding upon the stockholder, and,
under the Constitution and laws of the United States it should have the
like force and effect In other States when attempted to'be enforced in
their courts.

THE facts of this case are these: The plaintiff in error,
plaintiff below, a creditor of the Commonwealth Loan &
Trust Company, a corporation duly organized under the laws
of the State of Kansas, recovered a judgment on December 8,
1893, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Kansas against the corporation for the sum of $16,136.76,
debt, and $28.45 costs of suit. Thereafter, on April 27, 1894,
an execution was issued on the judgment, and after due search
and diligence no. property of the corporation could be found
to be taken in satisfaction thereof, and it was returned wholly
unsatisfied. The corporation was not a railway, religious or
a stockholder in
charitable corporation. The defendant is.
that corporation, holding ten shares of the capital stock of
the par value of $100 each, and appearing as such stockholder
on the books of the corporation. Setting forth these facts'
with further detail of the provisions of the Kansas constitution and statutes, the plaintiff filed its declaration in the Common Pleas Division of the Supreme Court of Rhode Island
to recover a judgment for a sum equal to the amount of
defendant's stock. To this declaration a demurrer was filed

HANCOCK NATIONAL BANK v. FARNUM.

641

Opinion of the Court.

and sustained and judgment entered for the defendant, 20 R. I.
466, to reverse which judgment the plaintiff sued out this writ
of error.
.Mr. Wilhar Reed Bigelow for plaintiff in error. .Mr. Ii.
J.Jaguith, Mir. illiam J. Cronin and .Mr. Jon E. Conley
were on his brief.
Aifr. Walter 2?. Angell for defendant in error. Afr. Stephen
0. Edwards, Mr. Seeber .Edwards and Mr. Albert Gerald.
were on his brief.
Mz . JUSTrCE BREWER, after making the above statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

This case brings to our consideration the same constitutional
and statutory provisions of the State of Kansas which were
before us in Whitman v. Oxford National Bank, ante, 563.
In that case we decided that a plaintiff, after the recovery of
a judgment against a Kansas corporation in the courts of Kansas, and the return of an execution unsatisfied, could maintain
an action in any court of competent jurisdiction against a stockholder of the corporation to recover in satisfaction of his judgment an amount not exceeding the par value of the defendant's
stock. It is unnecessary to rediscuss the questions there considered.
-It remains to be determined whether the action of the
Supreme Court of lhode Island in failing to recognize the
right which, in the case just referred to, we have held that
the plaintiff possessed, is one which can be revised by this
proceeding in error. In order to give this court jurisdiction
of a case decided in the courts of a State there must be some
question arising under the Constitution of the United States;
some alleged denial of a right or immunity secured by that
Constitution. The plaintiff says that the decision of the
Supreme Court of Rhode Island denied it a right given by
section 1, article 4, of the Constitution of the United States,
which reads: "Full faith and credit shall be given in each
VOL. CLXXVI-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of. the Court.

State to the public aots, records and judicial proceedings of
every other State. And the Congress may by general laws
prescribe the manner in which such acts, records and proceedings shall be proved, and the effect thereof," and the
following statute passed in pursuance thereof, to wit, Revised
Statutes, section 905:
"The acts of the legislature of any State or Territory, or of
any country subject to the jurisdiction of the United States,
shall be authenticated by having the seals of such State, Territory or country affixed thereto. The records and judicial proceedings of the courts of any State or Territory, or of any such
country, shall be proved or admitted in any other court within
the United States, by the attestation of the clerk, and the seal
of the court annexed, if there be a seal, together with a certificate of the judge, chief justice or presiding magistrate, that
the said attestation is in due form. And the said records and
judicial proceedings, so authenticated, shall have such faith
and credit given to them in every court within the United
States as they have by law or usage in the courts of the State
from which they are taken."
The plaintiff's contention that these Federal provisions re,quired a decision different from that made by the state court
was distinctly presented and ruled against. The jurisdiction,
therefore, of this court, is clear. It may examine and inquire
whether any right secured by these provisions was denied by
the state court, though if it finds that no such right was denied,
the judgment will have to be affirmed, no matter what may
be the opinion of this court as to the correctness of the ruling
as a question of general law.
The Constitution declares that full faith and credit shall be
given in each State to the public acts, records and judicial proceedings of every other State, and that Congress may not only
prescribe the mode of authentication but also the effect thereof.
Section 905 prescribes such mode, and adds that the "records
and judicial proceedings, so authenticated, shall have such
'faith and credit given to them in every court within the United
States as they have by law or usage in the courts of the State
from which they are taken." Such is the Congressional decla-

HANCOCK NATIONAL BANK v. FARNUM.

643

Opinion of the Court.

ration of the effect to be given to the records and judicial
proceedings of one State in the courts of every other State. In
other words, the local effect must be recognized everywhere
through the Unitpd States.
What then is the faith and credit given by law or usage in
the courts of Kansas to a judgment against a corporation?
What is the effect of such a judgment as there established?
This is a question not answered by referring to general principles of law, by determining what at common law was the
significance and effect of a judgment, but can be answered only
by an examination of the decisions of the courts of Kansas.
The law and usage in Kansas, prescribed by its legislature and
enforced in its courts, make such a judgnent not only conclusive as to the liability of the corporation, but *also an adjudication binding each stockholder therein. We do not mean that
it is conclusive as against any individual sued as a stockholder
that he is one, or if one, that he has not already discharged by
payment to some other creditor of the corporation the full
measure of his liability, or that he has not claims against the
corporation, or judgments against it, which he may, in law or
equity, as any debtor, whether by judgment or otherwise, set
off against a claim or judgment, but in other respects it is an
adjudication binding him. He is so far a part of the corporation that he is represented by it in the action against it. Ball
v. 1?eeee, 58 Kansas, 614. In that case it was said, correcting
an inference which was sought to be drawn from language
in the case of Howell v. .Manglesdowf, 33 Kansas, 194, in respect to the effect of a judgment against a corporation (pp.
617, 618):
"The general holding in this court has been that a judgment
is final and conclusive between the parties and their privies;
and we .think it must be held that every stockholder in a corporaktion is so far privy in interest in an action against the
corporation that he is bound by the judgment against it. In
the absence of fraud and collusion, the judgment must be held
to be final and conclusive against the stockholder if the court
rendering it has final jurisdiction. As-the judgment was valid,
the court committed error in allowing the defendant to go

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

behind it and contest matters which were conclusively settled
by the judgment against the corporation."
This representative character of the corporation has been
affirmed by this court in several cases. In Hawkqin8 v. 6lent,
131 U. S.319, it was held that "in the absence of fraud, stockholders are bound by a decree against their corporation in
respect to corporate matters, and such a decree is not open to
collateral attack." This was a case in which an assessment
ordered by a court which had jurisdiction of the corporation
was held binding upon stockholders residing in another State;
and in the opinion, on page 329, it was said by Chief Justice
Fuller:
"A stockholder is so far an integral part of the corporation
that, in the view of the law, he is privy to the proceedings
touching the body of which he is a member." -.
See also Glenn v. Liggett, 135 U. S. 533; Great Testern
Telegrapk Co. v. Purdy,., 162 U. S. 329, 337.
Now, as the judgment rendered in the Kansas court is in
that State not only conclusive against the corporation but
also binding upon the stockholder, it must, in order to have
the same force and effect in other States of the Union, be
adjudged in their courts to be b.indin upon him, and the
only defences which he can make against it are those which
he could make in the courts of Kansas. The question to be
determined in this case was not what credit and effect are
given in an action against a stockholder in the courts of
Rhode Island to a judgment in those courts against the
corporation of which he is a stockholder, but what credit
and effect are given in the courts of Kansas in a like action to
a similar judgment there rendered. Thus and thus only can
the full faith and credit prescribed by the Constitution of the
United States and the act of Congress be secured.
In Crapo v. Kelly, 16 Wall. 610, 619, referring to the statute of Congress respecting the authentication of records, it
was said:
Under this statute it has been held in this court, from an
early day, that the faith and credit spoken of are not limited to
the form of the record, and are not satisfied by its admission

HANCOCK NATIONAL BANK v. FARNUM.

645

Opinion of the Court.

as a record. It is held that the same effect is to be given to
the record in the courts of the State where produced, as in
the courts of the State from which it is taken."
The fact that this judgment was rendered in a court of the
United States, sitting within the State of Kansas, instead of
one of the state courts, is immaterial; for, as said in Crescent
Live Stock Co. v. Butchers' Union, 120 U. S. 141, 147, citing Duas'eur v. 1Rochereau, 21 Wall. 130, 135; Embry v.
Ptalmer, 107 U. S. 3:
"It may be conceded, then, that the judgments and decrees
of the Circuit Court of the United States, sitting in a particular State, in the courts of that State, are to be accorded
such effect, and such effect only, as would be accorded in
similar circumstances to the judgments and decrees of a
state tribunal of equal authority."
See also .Metcayf v. Watertown, 153 U. S. 671-676; Pittsburgh, Cincinnati &c. Railway v. Long Island Loan & Trust
Co., 172 U. S. 493.
We are of the opinion, therefore, that the Supreme Court of
Rhode Island has failed to give to the judgment in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Kansas that
force and effect which it has within the limits of the State of
Kansas, and that the failure so to do is an error available
in this court.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Rhode Island must,
therefore, be reversed, and the case remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with the views herein
expressed.

Mm.

JUSTriE

FPe.C x&

dissented.

