GODDARD V. ORDWAY.

[Sup. Ot.

GODDARD v. ORD WAY.
1. Where an appeal has been duly taken, the supersedeas which follows from a
compliance by the appellant with the act of Congress in that behalf operates
to stay the execution of the decree.
2. Where the subject-matter of litigation is the funds in the possession of a
receiver, the court below may, notwithstanding the supersedeas, give him
the'requisite orders for their preservation ; but it cannot place them beyond
the control of a decree that may be made here.
8. Should that court, by mistake or otherwise, proceed to carry its decree into
effect, its action may be restrained by the appropriate writ from this court.
APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
On motion for a writ of Supersedeas.
Mr. E. L. Stanton in support of the motion.
Mr. R. T. Herrick and lr. George F. Appleby, contra.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAIThi delivered the opinion of the
court.
This was a suit in equity prosecuted by the appellant to subject to the payment of a debt a portion of the profits, as they
accrued to the defendant in'the performance of a contract between himself and the United States. In the progress of the
cause in the court below a receiver was appointed to collect
from the United States a part of the moneys payable to the
defendant under his contract, as they fell due, and retain them
to await the result of the suit. Upon the final hearing below
the bill was dismissed, and from that decree this appeal, which
operates as a supersedeas, was taken. When the supersedeas
was perfected, the receiver bad in his hands about $25,000, invested in United States bonds, which he had collected under
the order of the court and held subject to its disposal. The
appellant fearing, as he alleges, that an order is" about to be
made, directing the receiver to pay the money in his hands to
the defendant, notwithstanding the appeal, asks the interference of this court for his protection.
A supersedeas upon the appeal of a suit in equity operates to
stay the execution of the decree appealed from. When this
appeal was taken, the only execution there could be of the

Ot. 1876.]

OASEY v. GALLI.

decree below was the collection of the cost and the delivery to
the defendant of the fund in court, which is the subject-matter
of the litigation. To that end, a further order of the court was
asked; but such an order would be in aid of the execution of
the decree which has been stayed, and consequently beyond
the power of the court to make until the appeal is disposed of.
While the court below may make the necessary orders to pre
serve the fund, and direct its receiver to that extent, it cannot
place the money beyond the control of any decree that may be
made here, for that would be to defeat our jurisdiction.
A supersedeas is not obtaindd by virtue of any process issued
by this court, but it follows as a matter of law from a compliance by the appellant with the provisions of the act of Congress
in that behalf. We are not required, therefore, to issue any
writ to perfect the right of a party to that which the law has
given him; but if the court below is proceeding, through mistake or otherwise, to execute its judgment or decree notwithstanding the supersedeas, we may, under sect. 716, Rev. Stat.,
issue an appropriate writ to restrain that action, for it would
be "a writ necessary for the exercise of our jurisdiction." The
precise form of the writ to be issued, or relief to be granted,
must necessarily depend upon the particular circumstances of
any case that may arise. In this case, a rule has been already
entered and served upon the court below and its receiver, restraining them from paying over any portion of the ,fund to the
defeidant until the further order of this court. That rule is
now in force, and we suppose no further writ will be necessary
to give it effect.
Motion denied.

CASEY v. GALL
1. When a national banking lsociaton is insolvent, the order of the comptroller
of the currency, declaring to what extent the individual liability of the
stockholders shall be enforced, is conclusive. Kennedy v. Gibson and Others,
8 Wall. 498, cited and approved.
2. When his order is to collect an amount equal to the full par value of the
stock, the suit by the receiver against the stockholder must be at law, and
that amount will bear interest from the date of the order.
VOL. Iv.
43

