OMAHA V. HAMMOND.

[Sup. Ct.

that, unless the plaintiff in error submit himself to the jurisdiction of the court below on or before the first day of our next
term, the cause be left off the docket after that time. The
People v. Genet, 59 N. Y. 80; Leftwich's Case, 20 Gratt. 723;
Commonwealth v. Andrews, 97 Mass. 544; see also 81 Me. 592.
Motion to set down the casefor argument denied.

OMAHA v. IAMMOD.
Where a contract, entered into by a city for the construction of certain publia
works, provides that they shall be completed under the supervision and to the
satisfaction of an officer of the city, his action, in finally accepting them, is
an announcement of his decision that the terms of the contract have been
complied with, and is binding upon the city.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Nebraska.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. S.A. iStrickland for
the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. -E. Wakely for the defendant
in error.

MR.JUrsTIcE, MniLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendant in error, plaintiff below, sued the city ot
Omaha on a contract for the construction of two public wells
in the streets of that city. The contract was in writing, and
by its terms plaintiff was "to sink and construct two wells,
. . .said wells to be circular, twelve feet in diameter, and to
be curbed with a brick wall nine inches in thickness, and
arched over in a secure and proper manner, the whole to be
completed under the supervision and to the satisfaction of the
chief engineer of the fire department of said city."
For this work the city was to pay plaintiff "one hundred dollars for each and every one thousand gallons of water which
each of said wells shall be capable of producing, and shall produce, within twenty-four hours; the capacity of said wells to
be tested by the chief engineer of the fire department of the
city of Omaha aforesaid. And upon the report of said officer
being made to the council of said city, showing that the wells

Oct . 1876.]

v. HAmoND.
6OMAHA

are completed and satisfactory, and also showing the amount of
water that said well or wells will produce in twenty-four hours,
the said party of the first part shall be entitled to and shall
receive from the said party of the second part the said sum, to
be paid in city warrants."
These extracts from the agreement are all that are necessary
to the decision of the case.
The plaintiff proved the construction of the wells under the
supervision of the engineer to his entire satisfaction, and his
final acceptance of them. But it was also proved that, while
the main part of the wells was sunk to the depth of twenty to
twenty-three feet of the diameter of twelve feet, the brick
curbing of nine inches in thickness, built inside the shaft so
sunk, reduced this diameter to ten and a half feet, and that
smaller shafts of four or five feet in diameter were sunk below
the bottom of the main well to the depth of several feet.
These two circumstances constitute the defence of the city.
As to both of them, we think the city is concluded by the
action of its own officer, the engineer, who was also, by the
terms of the contract, authorized by the parties to it to decide
these questions.
It may be conceded that there is room for doubt, whether
the wells were to be twelve feet in diameter after they were
completed by the building of the curbing, or were to be twelve
feet in diameter when the shaft Was first sunk, and- the nine
inch curbing built inside was not to be taken into the account
in ascertaining the diameter. The language, we think, rather
favors the latter construction. But, if there is an ambiguity, it
must be resolved in favor of plaintiff, because the officer of the
city, under whose supervision the wells were built, must have
adopted this construction, and authorized the plaintiff to build
on that view of the contract, as the wells were necessarily built
under his immediate supervision and control, and could only
have been so built with his approval. Both parties, then, may
be said to have adopted and acted on this construction, and are
bound by it.
The same principle applies with added force to the smaller
shafts sunk deeper than the main ones. There is absolutely
nothing in the contract on this subject. The depth of the well,

100

WEST WISCONSIN RAILWAY Co. v. FOLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

the propriety of auxiliary shafts, or any other matter tending
to increase the flow of water, were left absolutely to the engineer. The whole work was to be done under his supervision
and to his satisfaction. It is proved that the depth of the main
shaft was determined by him in reference to the length of the
hose to be inserted in it. And the auxiliary shaft was also
sunk under his direction and with his approval. The city cannot now complain that it was done as he directed.
The instructions of the court were in accord with these
views, and they are not erroneous because the judge added to
this action of the engineer, as binding the city, the further fact
of their acceptance and use of the wells. Whether the fact bad
any significance or not, they were cetainly bound by the action
of the engineer.
it was also of no consequence that the court refused to instruct the jury "that if the plaintiff did not construct said wells
according to the terms of his contract, he cannot recover, even
though the wells have been used by the authorities of the city,"
ecause, as to the only matters in dispute, the engineer had by
the contract been constituted the arbiter, and had decided in
Judgment affirmed.
the plaintiff's favor.

WEST

WIscoNsiN RAILWAY COmx-PANY v. FOLEY.

1. Under the twenty-third rule, in relation to damages, where a writ of error was
sued out merely for delay, more than ten per cent upon the amount of the
judgment cannot be awarded, but the court may give less.
2. Being satisfied that this case is one to which that rule should be applied, the
court, affirming the judgment below for $26,333, with costs, awards, in additibn to interest, $500 damages.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Wisconsin.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Argued by Mr. William P. Vilas, for the defendant in error.
No cousel appeared for the plaintiff in error.

MR. Cmne' JUSTICE@ WAn delivered the opinion of the
court.
It is clear that there is no error in this record. The answer

