Oct. 1876.]

MCCLURE v. TOWNSHIP OF OXFORD.

evidence. We have recently had occasion, in the case of Cromwell v. County of Sac, supra, p. 851, to go over this ground and
point out the distinction mentioned; and it is unnecessary to
repeat what we there said. See Bigelow on Estoppel; Note to
the case of the Duchess of Kingston, in Smith's Lead. Cas.;
and Robinson's Practice, vol. vii. The position of counsel is
clearly untenable.
As to the objection of want of authority in the president of
the bank to make the agreement with the defendants, the finding of the court is conclusive. Iis authority was a fact to be
determined by the court, under the stipulation waiving a jury,
and we do not sit in review of questions of fact.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE Cy.ronD dissented.

McGLun

v. TowsmP oF Oxrou.

1. A municipality must have legislative authority to subscribe to the capital
stock of a bridge company before its officers cal, bind the body politic to the
payment of bonds purporting to be issued on that account.
2. If any of the essential proceedings prescribed by law for investing municipal
officers with power to subscribe for stock, and issue bonds in payment
thereof, be dispensed with, the bonds will be invalid in the hands of all
who amnnot claim protection as bo, a.fide holders.
S. Every dealer in municipal bonds, which, upon their face, refer to the statute
under which thcy were issued, is bound to take notice of all its requirements.
4. Where. upon their face, the coupons refer to the bonds to which they were
attached, and purport to be for the semiannual interest accruing thereon,
the purchaser of thiem is charged with notice of all which the bonds contain.
5. The bonds issued by the township of Oxford, Kansas, bearing date April 15,
1872. and reciting that they are issued under an act of the legislature of
Kanmas, approved March 1, 1872, authorizing the township to subscribe for
stock in the Oxford Bridge Company, and, in pursuance of a vote of the
qualified electors of said township, at an election held therein, April 8, 1872,
are void, because, as that act by its terlns took effect only from its publica.
tion in tile " Kansas Weekly Commonwealth," and it was not published
until March 21, the election was not held pursua't to a notice of thirty
days, as required by the act.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United -States for the
District of Kansas.

MCCLURE v. TOWNSHIP OF OXFORD.

[Sup. CL.

This was an action by the plaintiff to recover upon twenty
overdue interest coupons, detached from bonds held by him and
issued by the defendant.
The following is a copy of one of the bonds and coupons, all
of which were set forth in the declaration : "No.

-

.]

OxFoRD

Tow.-sn

BRIDGE

BowD.

[$500.

"The township of Oxford, in the county of Sumner and State of
Kansas, hereby promises to pay to

-

-

, or bearer, the sum of

$500, on the fifteenth day of April, A.D. 1882, with interest thereon
at the rate often per cent per annum, payable semiannually on the
fifteenth day of October and April of each year, upon the presentation of the coupons therefor hereto attached. Both principal and
interest payable at the American Exchange National Bank, in the
city of New York. This bond is one of an issue of $10,000, made
for the purpose of aiding in the building of a bridge across the
Arkansas River at the town of Oxford, in the county of Sumner
and State of Kansas, and in'pursuance of an act of the legislature
of the State of Kansas, entitled .An Act authorizing the trustee,
treasurer, and clerk, or any two of them, of the township of Oxford,
in the county of Sumner and State of Kansas, to subscribe for stock
in the Oxford Bridge Company to the amount of $10,000, to aid in
the construction of a bridge across the Arkansas River at Oxford,
in said county and State, and to issue the bonds of said township in
payment therefor,' approved 'March 1, 1872, and in pursuance of a'
vote of the qualified electors of said township, had at an election
held therein, on the eighth day of April, A.D. 1872, which said election resulted in a majority of 112 in favor of issuing said bonds in
'a total vote of 140.
"The faith of said township and the receipts for toll of said
bridge are pledged to the payment of this bond and interest.
"In testimony whereof the township trustee, clerk, and treasurer
of said township have caused this bond to be issued, duly certified,
attested, and counteisigned, this fifteenth day of April, A.D. 1872.
"GEORGE T. IVALTON, Trustee.
!6Attest: Joun H. FOLKs, Clerk.

"Countersigned: T. E.

CLARK,

Treasurer."

"I, A. Thoman, auditor of the State of Kansas, do hereby certify that this bond has been regularly and legally issued ; that the
signatuks thereto are genuine; and that such bond has been duly
registered in my office, in accordance with an act of the legislature,

Oct. 1876.]

MCCLURE v. TOWNSHIP OF

OXFORD.

entitled 'An Act to authorize counties, incorporated cities, and
municipal townships to issue bonas for the purpose of building
bridges, aiding in the construction of railroads, or other works of
internal improvements, and providing for the registration of other
bonds, and the repealing of all laws in conflict therewith,' approved
March 2, 1872.
"Witness my hand and official seal, this twenty-fifth day of
April, 1872.
"A. TnoMx, Auditor
of Btat,_
SEnA or AuDiroR OF STATE.
KANSAs, April 25, 1873."
3
"$25.]

Oxford Township.

"On the fifteenth day of April, 1875, the treasurer of the town
ship of Oxford, in the county of Sumner and State of Kansas, will
pay to bearer the sum of $25, at the American Exchange National
Bank in the city of New York, being the semiannual interest .due
on bond No. 1, issued April 15, A.D. 1872.
"GEoRGE T. WALTON, Trustee;
"Attest: JoHN H. FoLKS, Clerk."
The fifth and seventh sections of the act under which the
bonds were issued are as follows :
"SECT. 5. Before any of the. bonds hereinbefore mentioned shall
be issued, the question of issuing said bonds shall be submitted to
the legal voters of said township, at an election to be held for that
purpose, which said election shall be conducted in 'all respects in
conforrpity with the general election laws of this State." The time
and place of holding said election shall be designated by the said
trustee, treasurer, and clerk, or any two of them, by giving at least
thirty days' notice by posting written or printed notices thereof in
three of the most public places in said township. The ballots to be
used at said election shall be written or printed, 'For the bridge
and bonds,' or, ' Against the bridge and bonds;' and if at said election a majority of said votes shall be for the bridge and bonds, the
said bonds shall be issued, and not otherwise."
"SE~cr. 7. This act shiall take effect from and after its publica.
tion in the .Kansas Weekly Commonwealth.'"
"Approved March 1, 1872."
Annexed to the act is the following certificate :"I hereby certify that the forcgoing is a true and correct copy
of the original enrulled bill now on file in my office, and that the

MCCLURE V. TOWNSHIP OF OXFORD.

L Su p.

Ot.

same was published in the ' Kansas Weekly Commonwealth,' M.arch
21, 1872.
"W. H. SuALLWOOD, Secretary of State.'
The defendant demurred to the declaration, on the ground
that it did not set forth a good cause of action. The demurrer
was sustained, and judgment rendered for the defendant. The
plaintiff sued out this writ of error.
.Mr. Alfred Ennis for the plaintiff in error.
Mi. A. L. Williams, contra.
Mr. CHaIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
A municipality must have legislative authority to subscribe
to the capital stock of a bridge company before its officers can
bind the body politic to the payment of bonds purporting to be
issued on that account. Municipal officers cannot rightfully
dispense with any of the essential forms of proceeding which
the legislature has prescribed for the purpose of investing them
with power to act in the matter of such a subscription. If they
do, the bonds they issue will be invalid in the hands of all that
cannot claim protection as bona fide holders.
To be a bona fide holder, one must be himself a purchaser
for value without notice, or the successor of one who was.
Every man is chargeable with notice of that which the law
requires him to know, and of that which, after being put upon
inquiry, he might have ascertained by the exercise of ieasonable diligence. Every dealer in municipal bonds, which upon
their face refer to the statute under which they were issued,
is bound to take notice of the statute and of all its requirements.
The statute under which the bonds now in question were
issued, and which is referred to in the bonds, though passed and
approved March 1, 1872, was not by its terms to go into effect
until after its publication in the "Kansas Weekly Commonwealth." Of this every purchaser of the bonds had notice, because it was part of the statute he was bound to take notice of.
A purchaser would, therefore, be put upon inquiry as to the
time of the publication, and by reasonable diligence could have
ascertained that this did not take place until March 21. This

Oct. 1876.]

MCCLURE v. TOWNSHIP OF OXFORD.

being the case, the law charges him with knowledge that the
statute did not go into effect until that date.
The statute further provided that no bonds could be issued
under its authority, until the question of their issue had been
submitted to the legal voters of the town at an election, of which
thirty days' notice had been given, and at which a majority of
the votes should be in favor of the measure. These bonds bore
date April 15, 1872, and, pursuant to the express requirements
of the act, contained a statement of the purpose for which they'
were issued, a -reference to the act under which they were
issued, and the result of the vote of the inhabitants on the
question of their issuance, which is stated .to have been taken
April 8, 1872. No valid notice of an election could be given
until the act went into effect, because until then no officer
of the, township had authority to designate the time or place of
holding it. These bonds, therefore, carried upon their face
unmistakable evidence that the forms of the law under which
they purported. to have been issued had not been complied with,
because thirty days had not elapsed between the time the law
took effect and the date of the election. If a purchaser may
be, as he sometimes is, protected by false recitals in municipal
bonds, the municipality ought to have the benefit of those that
are true.
This suit was brought upon coupons detached from the bonds
purchased by the plaintiff in error before maturity, but upon
their face they refer to the bonds, and purport to be for the
"semiannual interest accruing thereon. This puts
the purchaser
upon inquiry for the bonds, and charges him with notice of all
they contain.
This disposes of the case. As the declaration sets out a copy
of the, bonds with all the recitals, and the rc eitals show that the
bonds were irregularly issued and not binding upon the township, it follows that the declaration does not set forth a good
cause of action against the defendant, and that the demurrer
was propeily sustained. This is in accordance with the decision
of the Supreme Court of Kansas, in George v. Oxford Tou'nshlp,
16 Kan. 72. Under these circumstances it is unnecessary to
consider any other of the questions which have been certified
Judgment affirmed.
here.
VOL. IV.

28

