SUPERVISORS V. KENNICOTT.

[Sup. Ct.

She could have entered just where she did enter. She could
have safely passed the swells she would have encountered.
Her experience aq she did enter proves this to have been so.
She would have avoided the shoal-water and bar south of the
channel where the swells were the highest. A single line
would have answered for the tow. It might have been of any
length deemed proper. The tow would have had ample steerage-way, and have obeyed her helm. She could have been kept
in the wake of the tug, and would have safely passed the groundswell, as did the tug. There being ample depth of water in the
chaninel, and being larger and heavier than the tug, she would
have encountered even less of difficulty and danger. The tug
need not have stopped a moment. There would have been no
tension and breaking of the lines by the grounding and jerkings
of the brig. The traction would have gone on in unbroken
continuity until the tow was so far within the harbor as to have
been out of peril. The expert testimony proves that this could
and should have been done. We find no sufficient answer to
this view either in the record or in the able and elaborate
argument submitted by the counsel for the appellants.
Upon this ground, also, 'wefind the"tug in fault.
Decree affirned.

SUPTERVISORS V. KE.NCOTT.
Whatever has been decided here upon one appeal cannot be re-examined in a subsequent appeal of the same suit. The subsequent appeal brings up only the
proceedings of the Circuit Court after the mandate of this court.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
Argued by M. A. L. XKnapp for the appellants. The court
declined to hear further argument.

MR. C ras' JUSTICE WAITTE delivered the opinion of the
court.
When this case was here on a former appeal, we decided that
the mortgage in controversy was valid in favor of bona fide
holders of the bonds it was given to secure, and that the com

Oct. 1876.]

SUPERVISORS V. KENNICOTT.

plainants were entitled to a decree for the amount of the bonds
held by them. Fennicott v. Supervisors, 16 Wall. 468, 471.
These questions are, therefore, no longer open; for it is settled
in this court, that whatever has been decided here unoxi one appeal cannot be re-examined in a subsequent appeal of the same
suit. Such subsequent appeal brings up for consideration only
the proceedings of the Circuit Court, after the mandate of this
court. Himely v. Rose, 5 Cranch, 814; Martin v. Hunter's
Lessee, 1 Wheat. 855; Browden v.McArther, 12 id. 5 ; Sibbard v. United "States,12 Pet. 492 ; Corning v. Troy Iron and
Nail Co., 15 How. 466 ; Sizer v. Manry, 16 id. 108 ; Roberts v.
Cooper, 20 id. 481; Tyler v. lfaguire, 17 Wall. 288.
It is true that, after reversing the decree of the Ci.,;uit Court
upon the former appeal, it was further ordered that the cause be
remanded "with directions to award a new trial; " but the mandate as sent down "commanded that such executionand further
proceedings be had in conformity to the opinion and decree of
this court, as according to right, &c., ought to be had."' Technically, there can be no "new trial" in a suit in equity; and
as our mandates are to be interpreted according to the subiet-matter of the proceeding here, and, if'possible, so as not to
cause injustice, Story v. Livingston, 18 Pet. 859, it is proper
to inquire what must have been intended by the use of that'
term in the decree, since it cannot have its ordinary meaning.
For that purpose, we held, in West v. Brashaer, 14 Pet. 51, that
resort might be had to the opinion delivered at the time of the
decree. Availing ourselves of this rule, it is 'easy to see that
there could have been no intention to open the case for further
hearing upon the issues presented and decidedl here. There is
not an expression of any kind in the opinion indicating any
such determination. On the contrary, it is distinctly declared
that the mortgage was -valid, and that the complainants were
entitled to their judgment. Under these circumstances, it 'is
apparent that the words " new trial" were used to convey the
idea of such further action as should be found necessary to carry
into effect what had been already decided. No error has been
assigned upon the proceedings in the Circuit Court under the
mandate, construed in this way, and the decree of the Circuit
Affirmed.
Court is, therefore,

