COUNTY OF LEAVENWORTH v. BARNES.

[Sup. Ct.

COUNTY OF LEAVENWORTH V. BARNES.

1. This court adopts the decision of the Supreme Court of Kansas, affirming the
validity and binding effect of an act of the legislature of that State, approved
Feb. 10, 1866, entitled "An Act to authorize counties and cities to issue
bonds to railroad companies," although the yeas and nays were not called
and entered on the journals of the respective houses on the final passage of
the bill, and the enrolled bill was not signed by the presiding officer of the
senate.
2. Where the question of subscribing to the stock of a railroad company was,
prior to the passage of that act, duly submitted to the qualified voters of
the county, who voted to subscribe stock and issue bonds therefor, the board
of county commissioners was, by that act, authorized to make the subscription, and issue bonds not e;ceeding the amount provided in the first and
third sections thereof.
8. The bonds issued by the county of Leavenworth, Kansas, bearing date July 1,
1865, and reciting that they are issued in payment of the subscription of said
county to the capital stock of the Leavenworth and Missouri-Pacific Railroad Company, under the provisions of the act of the legislature of Kansas,
entitled "An Act to authorize counties and cities to issue bonds to railroad companies," approved Feb. 10, 1865, are, in the hands of a bona fide
holder for value, valid and binding upon the country.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. J. W. English for
the plaintiffs in error, and by Messrs. Stillings & Fenlon for the
defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HUNTT delivered the opinion of the court.

This action is brought upon certain bonds and coupons
issued by the county of Leavenworth, Kansas,
It is found by the judge, who tried the cause without a jury,
that the boinds were issued by the county, and that the plaintiff below was the owner and holder, and purchased them without actual notice of the defences set up, and for value paid.
The defences to the recovery upon the bonds resolve themselves into the following First, The bonds recite that they are issued under the provisions of the act of the State of Kansas, approved Feb. 10,
1865, entitled "An Act to authorize counties and cities to issue
bonds to railroad comparies."

Oct. 1876.]

COUNTY OF LEAvENWORTH v. BARNES.

71

They bear date of July 1, 1865, and are payable on the first
day of July, 1875.
This act authorized the counties to make subscription to the
capital stock of a .railroad company, and to issue its bonds in
payment therefor, payable within thirty year.%, at a rate of
interest not exceeding seven per cent. A previous assent of
the qualified electors of the county, at an election, of which
twenty days' notice should be given, was required.
It is contended that without this act there wis no authority
in the county to issue the bonds in suit, and that the act was
never legally passed. The objection is that the yeas and nays
were not called and entered on the journal, on the final passage
of the bill; and, again, that the enrolled bill was not signed
by the presiding officer of the senate.
The recent decision upon this identical statute by the Supreme Court of Kansas, in a suit against this county, relieves
us from all embarrassment upon this question. It gives effect
and construction to one of its own statutes, and, according to
well-settled rules, will be followed by this court. The ques
tion is discussed at much length, many local authorities in support of their conclusion are cited, and the act is held to have
been legally passed, and to be a binding act. We must hold in
accordance with this decision.
Second, It appears by the record that on the second day of
January, 1865, the board of county commissioners called an
election for the twenty-first day of that month, for the submission to the electors of the question of subscribing to the
stock of the Leavenworth and Missouri-Pacific Railroad Coinpauy; that an electiou was held on that day, at which seven
hundred and eighty-four votes were cast in favor of the subscription, and one hundred and eleven against it; that on the
eighteenth day of April the cha:irman of the board was directed
by the board to make the subscription; and that on the first
day of July the bonds were issued in payment thereof.
It is now objected that the bonds are invalid, for the reason
that tl.e only vot3 taken by the electors of the county was
before the passage of thd act authorizing it. The law in question appears, from the printed volume of the statutes of Kansas,
tr have been approved on the tenth day of February, -1865,

COUNTY OF LEAVENWORTH v. BARNES.

[Sup. Ct.

and to have been published on the fourteenth day of the
same month.
The act we are considering authorizes the counties into,
from, or near which any railroad is or may be located, to subscribe to the capital stock thereof, and to issue its bonds in payment of such subscription. It proceeds to say: "But no such
bonds shall be issued until the question shall be first submitted
to a vote of the qualified electors of the county at some genera]
election, or some special election, to be called by the board of
county commissioners by first giving twenty days' notice in
some newspaper published and having general circulation in
the county. .

.

. If a majority of the votes cast at such election

shall be in favor of issuing such bonds, the board of commissioners of the county shall issue the same."
The road in question was located and built in and through
the county of Leavenworth.
The fourth section of the act contained this provision : ',In case the board of commissioners of any such county ..
have heretofore submitted to the electors of such county the ques
tion of issuing bonds to any railroad company, and at such election
such electors voted to issue such bonds, such board are hereby authorized to issue such bonds and subscribe for stocks not exceeding
the amount as provided in the first and third sections of this act."
Stat. Kan. 1865,-p. 42.
In the present case, a majority of the electors voting declared
themselves in favor of the subscription and issue of the bonds.
This is all that is required either by the first or the fourth
section. The same rule is intended to be applied in each case.
This is an explicit authority from the legislature to the
county board to adopt any previous expression of the electors
of their willingness.to make such subscription. It is conclusive
upon the point under consideration.
Third, It is objected, again, that the bonds were issued to the
Leavenworth and Missouri-Pacific Railroad Company, whereas
it is alleged that no such company was in existence on the
twenty-first day of January, 1865, when the election was held,
or on the first day of July, when the bonds were issued.
This company was organized in 1860, under the name of

Oct. 1876.]

UNITED STATES V. CLARK.

the Missouri River Railroad Company, and on the 18th of
April, 1865, it consolidated with another company, increased
its capital, and changed its name to that of the Leavenworth
and Missouri-Pacific Railroad Company. We suppose this
to have been authorized by the statutes of Kansas. Laws
1862, p. 768. We are certainly of opinion that when the parties interested in the two companies are content; when the
newly named company has been in operation for ten years;
when the county has received and held its stock until 1869;
when the same was sold by the county by authority of the
legislature,- it is not competent for such a contracting party
to say that there was an irregularity in the organization of the
company. Bigelow on Estoppel, 464; Moran v. Commissioners, 2 Black, 722; Zabriskie v. Cleveland, 23 How. 400;
Pendleton v. Amy, 13 Wall. 297.
There are some other objections made, but none of them are
serious in their character.
Judgment affirmed.

UIuED STATES v. CLARIC.
1. The act of May 9, 1866 (14 Stat. 44), extending the jurisdiction of the Court
of Claims, does not dispense with the existing rules regulating appeals from
that court.
2. In cases to which that act applies, the Court of Claims should set forth in
its finding of facts the amount of loss, if any, which the petitioner has
sustained.

from the Court of Claims.
On the 12th of April, 1873, Clark filed his petition in the
Court of Claims praying relief from responsibility, under the
act of May 9, 1866, 14 Stat. 44, on account of the loss, by robbery, of funds to the amount of $15,979.87 belonging to the
United States, and in his hands as a paymaster in the army.
The United States pleaded the general issue and the Statute of
APPEAL

Limitations..

The court found -thefacts as follows :
1. On the 6th April, 1865, the claimant lost, by robbery,
while in the line of his duty as assistant paymaster in the army

