C MMISSIONERS,

ETC., V. CLARK.

[Sup. Ct.

MR. CIIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
Stipulations between counsel relative to the course of proceeding in a cause pending in this court cannot be withdrawn
by one party without the consent of the other, except by.leave
of the court upon cause shown. The counsel in this case stipulated in writing, on or before July 5, 1876, to submit the cause
on printed arguments, under rule 20, during the first ninety
days of this term. This stipulation was filed here July 5; but,
Oct. 21, the counsel for the appellants notified the counsel for
the appellees that he withdrew his agreement.
The counsel for the appellees having filed a printed argument
within the ninety days, now asks that the cause be taken up
and considered by the court as submitted under the rule.
This we might with propriety do, as, if the desired withdrawal
is not assented to, application for the vacation of the stipulation
ought to be made here in time to have it disposed of before the
expiration of the ninety days. But as we have never before
been called upon to settle the practice- applicable to this class
of cases, it is now ordered that the appellants cause a printed
argument to be filed in their behalf on or before March 6, next,
or show good cause why the stipulation for submission made by
their counsel should not be enforced agiinst them; and, in default, that the cause be taken up and considered as submitted
under the rule, without argument by the appellants.

0OI3MSSIONERS OF MARION COUNTY V. CLARK.
1. A court is not required to submit evidence to the jury, unless it be of such a
character as would warrant a verdict for the party producing it, and upon
whom the burden of proof is imposed.
2. Where the title of the original holder of negotiable instruments, which are
infected with fraud, invalidity, or illegality, is destroyed, that of every subsequent holder which rests on that foundation, and no other, falls with it.
3. Where the first indorsee, without notice of any prior equities between the
original parties, purchases, for value, a negotiable instrument, the second
indorsee, who acquires it before it is due, and for value, takes a good tide,
although he had notice of such equities.
4. Bonds issued, pursuant to legislative authority, by a municipal corporation in
aid of a railroad company are negotiable instruments.
5. Town of Colomra v. Eaves (92 U. S. 486) cited and approved.

Oct. 1876.]

COMMISSIONERS, ETC., V. CLARK.

ErmO to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas.
Mr. A. L. Williams for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Alfred Ennis, contra.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Power is vested by law in the constituted authorities of
counties and other municipal corporations to subscribe for and
take stock in any railway company duly organized under the
law of the State or Territory, or to loan the credit of the municipality to such a railroad company, subject to the condition
that the majority of the qualified voters of the same, voting at
the election, shall, at a regular or a special election to be held
therein, first assent to the proposal for such subscription; and
the provision is that it shall be the duty of the municipal authorities, when the terms of the proposal are so approved, to
make subscription to the stock of the railway company. Laws
Kansas 1869, 108.
Sufficient appears to show that the railway company became
duly incorporated for the purpose of constructing a railway
from the northern to the southern line of the State through
Davis, Marion, and other counties named in the certificate pf
incorporation. Tax-payers and citizens of the County of Marion
petitioned the county commissioners of the county to submit a
proposition to the qualified voters of the county to subscribe
for two thousand shares of $100 each of the capital stock of the
railway company, to be paid for in thirty-years seven-per-cent
bonds of the county. Pursuant to the prayer of those petitioners, the county commissioners submitted that question to
the qualified voters of the county, at a special election held at
the time and place appointed in the order of the county commissioners ; and it appears by the record that the election was
duly held at the time and place appointed, and that a majority
of the votes cast at the election were in favor of the subscription by the county for two thousand shares of the capital stock
of the railway company.
By the terms and conditions of the proposition submitted
and adopted, the stock to be subscribed was to be paid for in
the bonds of the county, payable thirty years after their date,

280

COMMISSIONERS, ETC., V. CLARK.

f,8up. Ct.

with annual interest at the rate of seven per cent per annum;
and the proposal was that the bonds should be delivered to the
railway company as follows: 1. That, on the completion of the
grading of the railway from the northern line of the county to
Marion Centre, one-half of the bonds should be due and deliverable under the contract. 2. That, upon the completion of the
railway from Marion Centre to the village of Peabody, other
bonds to the amount of $75,000 should be due and deliverable
as a second instalment. 3. That, upon the completion of the
railway to the south line of the county, the residue of the stipulated amount of the bonds should be due and deliverable.
Due canvass of the qualified votes cast at the election was
made by the county commissioners, and they made the proper
entry in their records that the subscription of the stock was
then and there made by their board for and in behalf of the
county; and it appears that the board did then and there elect
one of their number to make the subscription, and that the
member so elected entered the same in the books of the railway company.
Beyond all doubt, the subscription was legally made; and it
is not controverted that the railway company graded their line
of railway from the north line of the county to Marion Centre,
and that the authorities of the county executed and delivered
to the railway company the bonds of the county to the amount
of $100,000, in pursuance of the terms of the subscription, with
coupons attached for the payment of interest at the rate of
seven per cent semi-annually.
Purchases of the bonds with coupons annexed to a large
amount were made by the plaintiff from the First National
Bank of Junction City, where they were deposited for sale.

Payment of the interest coupons being refused, the praintiff, as
the owner and holder 6f the same, instituted a suit in the Circuit Court to recover the amount. Two other suits were subsequently instituted by him for a similar purpose; and the three
suits in the course of their prosecution were consolidated, the
claim of the plaintiff being for the amount of one hundred and
ninety-four coupons, each for the sum of thirty-five dollars.
Service was made, and the defendants appeared and set up the
several defences exhibited in the answer. Special reference to

Oct. 1876.]

COMUSSIONERS, MnC., V. CLARK.

the separate defences as set up in the answers may be omitted,
as the questions to be re-examined sufficiently appear in the
bill of exceptions.
Questions of fact were submitted to the jury; and the transcript shows that the verdict and judgment were for the plaintiff, in the sum of $6,703.54, and that the defendants excepted
to the rulings and instructions of the court.
Two thousand shares of the stock were subscribed; but the
bonds were issued in shares of $1,000, with interest coupons
attached. On the trial of the cause, the plaintiff, to maintain
the issue on: his part, offered one of the bonds in evidence, with
an overdue coupon attached; and the defendants objected to its
admissibility, upon three grounds: 1. Because it was signed
only by the chairman of the county commissioners. 2. Because
it was made due and payable thirty years and twenty-seven
days after date. 3. Because the interest coupons attached
provide for the payment of interest semi-annually instead of
annually. But the court overruled the objections, and the bond
with the coupon attached was admitted, subject to the objections of the defendants. Coupons of a similar character, to
the number of one hundied and ninety-four in all, were also
introduced in evidence by the plaintiff, subject to the same
objections.
Exceptions were duly taken by the defendants to the rulings
of the court in admitting the bond and coupons, and the plaintiff rested his case in the opening. Evidence was then introduced by the defendants, consisting, in the first place, of the
deposition of the plaintiff and a certified copy of the record of
a suit previously instituted in the County Court to cancel the
zonds issued by the county and to restrain the First National
Bank from transferring the same to the railway company.
They also introduced a copy of the proposition submitted to
the qualified voters of the county to subscribe for the capital
stock of the railway company, in payment for which the bonds
in question were executed and delivered, to which reference has
already been made; but it also provides, that, before any county
bonds should be issued an&delvered, the.railway company shall
execute to the county a good and sufficient bond that the
company will complete the railway-as therein represented and
proposed.

COMMISSIONERS,

ETC., V. CLARK.

[Sup. Ot.

Before the bonds were issued and delivered by the. county
the. railway company did execute a bond to the county in the
sum of $200,000, conditioned that the company should fully
complete and- stock the railway, and put the same in running
order, as required in the recorded conditions of the subscription.
Both parties agree that bonds to the amount of $100,000, and
no more, were issued by the county and delivered to the company; but the defendants insist that the authorities of the
county were induced to issue and deliver the same by the
misrepresentation and fraud of the railway company.
Two suggestions in that regard are exhibited in the answer
and in the assignment of errors: 1. That the railway company,
when they applied for the bonds, concealed from the authorities of the county the fact that the company had been reincorporated with an amended charter. 2. That the company,
when they applied for the bonds, falsely and fraudulently
represented that the sureties were good for the amount of the
bond, and the defendants introduced evidence tending to show
that the sureties were insolvent.
They also gave evidence tending to show that the charter of
the company was amended, and the nature and extent of the
amendment made, before the company applied for the bonds,
and that they gave no notice to the authorities of the county
of the meeting of the directors of the company when those
amendments were adopted.
Three other defences set up in the answer should be briefly
noticed: 1. That the bonds were illegal, because issued for a
longer time than thirty years. 2. That they were illegal,
because the interest is payable semi-annually instead of annually, as stipulated in the proposition submitted to the qualified
voters. 3. That the plaintiff is not a bona fide holder of the
bonds, because he did not pay value for the same before they
became due, without knowledge of the facts set up in these
defences: all of which is expressly denied by the plaintiff in
his reply to the answer.
Instructions were given by the court to the jury in substance
and effect as follows: 1. That the plaintiff, when he introduced
the coupons in evidence, made out a primafacie case. 2. That
there is no evidence to go to the jury to show that the First

Oct. 1876.]

CommissIoEmms, ETC., V.

CLARK.

National Bank had notice, at or prior to the purchase of the
bonds, of the fraudulent character of the representations made
by the railway company which induced the authorities of the
county to accept the bond given by the company to complete
the railway, as stipulated in the proposition submitted to the
qualified voters of the county. 3. That if the bank gave value
for the bonds and purchased them before due, without notice
of the fraud set up and relied on by the county in respect to
the bond given in evidence, and sold the bonds in suit to the
plaintiff, he is entitled to recover on the bonds, though he had
notice when he obtained them that the county claimed they
were fraudulent, and that a suit was pending contesting their
validity, the record of which had been introduced in evidence.
4. That the amendment of the charter of the railway company
is no defence, if the bonds in suit were purchased by the bank
before due and for value.
Seasonable exceptions were taken by the defendants to the
several instructions given to the jury and to the rulings of
the court iqadrnatting and' excluding evidence in opposition to
the objections made by the defendants, and they sued out a writ
of error, and removed the -cause into this court.
Provided the bond was properly admitted in evidence, it is
too plain for argument that the first instruction is entirely
correct, an& the better opinion is, that the exception to it was
only taken 'to exclude the conclusion that the objections previously made to the admissibility of the bond were not
waived.
I. All of the bonds recite on thdr face that the county has
caused the same "to be signed in their behalf by the chairman
of the board of county commissioners, attested by the county
clerk, a-Ad the seal of said county affixed." They bear date
the 3d of September, 1872, but they were not issued and delivered until the 4th of November following. Instruments of
the kind must be tested in that regard by the law of the jurisdiction where they are executed; and by the law of the State in
force at that time it is provided that "such bonds, if issued by
a county, shall be signed by the chairman of the board of county
commissioners, and be attested by the county clerk," which is
all that need be said in response to the first objedtion. Laws

COMMISSIONRS, ETC., V.

CLARK.

[Sup. ot.

Kansas 1872, sect. 2, p. 111; Thayer v. Hontgomery County.
8 Dillon, 389; Marcy v. Oswego, 92 U. S. 637.
Enough has already been remarked to show that the second
objection to the admissibility of the bond is without merit, as
there is no excess in time beyond thirty years if the computation be made as it should be, from the time the bonds were
actually executed, issued, and delivered. Laws Kansas 1872,
sect. 2, p. 111.
Where a municipal corporation has power to borrow money,
they may make the principal and interest payable when they
please, which is a sufficient answer to the third objection.
Meyer v. Muscatine, 1 Wall. 891.
Viewed in the light-of these suggestions, it is clear that the
bond was properly admitted in evidence, and that the exception
to the first instruction given to the jury must be overruled.
I. Matters of fact are involved in the exception to the second
instruction. Judges are no longer required to submit a case to
the jury merely because some evidence has been introduced by
the party having the burden of proof, unless the evidence be of
such a character that it would warrant the jury to proceed in
finding a verdict in favor of the party introducing such evidence.
lyder v. Wombwell, Law Rep. 4 Exch. 39.
Decided cases may be found where it is held that, if there is
a scintilla of evidence in support of a case, the judge is bound
to leave it to the jury: but the modern decisions have established a more reasonable rule; to wit, that, before the evidence
is left to the jury, there is or may be in every case a preliminary question for the judge, not whether there is literally no
evidence, but whether there is any upon which a jury can
properly proceed to find a verdict for the party producing it,
upon whom the burden of proof is imposed. Law Rep. 2 Priv.
Council Apps. 335 ; Improvement Co. v. -Munson,14 Wall. 448 ;
Pleasants v. Pant, 22 id. 120; Parks v. Boss, 11 How. 873;
Merchants' Bank v. State Banc, 10 Wall. 637; Hficcman v.
Jones, 9 id. 201.
Apply that rule to the question before the court, and it is
clear that the ruling of the Circuit Court was correct, as there
is no evidence reported in the transcript which would have
warranted the jury in finding the issue for the defendants.

Oct. 1876.]

COMMISSIONERS, ETC., V. CLARK.

Jewell v. Parr, 13 C. B. 916; Toorey v. Railway, 8 C. B.
w . s. 150; Wheelton v. ifardisty, 8 El. & B1. 276; Schu
chardt v. Allen, 1 Wall. 869; Grand Chute v. Winegar, 15
id. 369.
III. Due exception was also taken to the third instruction,
which presents a questioi of commercial law. Standard authorities show that, where a negotiable instrument is originally
infected with fraud, invalidity, or illegality, the rule is, that the
title of the original holder being destroyed, the title of every
subsequent holder which reposes on that foundation and no
other falls with it. Byles op Bills, p. 118.
Where the theory that the plaintiff paid value for the
instrument depends solely upon the prima facie presumption
arising from the possession of the instrument, the defendant
may, Y the pleadings admit of such a defence, prove that the
instrument originated in illegality or fraud; and the rule is, if
he establishes, such a defence, that a presumption arises that
the subsequent holder gave no value for it, Lnd it is also true
that such a presumption will support a plea that the holder is
a holder without consideration, unless the presumption is rebutted by proof that the plaintiff paid value for the instrument, in which event the plaintiff is still entitled to recover.
Fitch v. Jcf-nes, 5 El. & Bl. 288; Smith v. flracne, 16 Q. B.
244; Hall v. Featherstone,3 H. & N. 287; 2 Pars. on Bills
and Notes, 438.
But the rule is different when the question is whether the
indorsee and holder had notice of the prior equities between
the antecedent parties to the instrument. Holders of such
instruments, under such circumstances, are n6t obliged to show
that they paid value for the instrument until the other party
has clearly proved that the consideration was illegal, or that it
was fraudulent in its inception, or that it has been lost or
stolen before it came to the possession of the holder. Wheeler
v. Guild, 20 Pick. 551; Collins v. Martin, 1 Bos. & Pul. 648;
Miller v. Race, 1 Burr. 452; Peacock v. Rhodes, 2 Doug. 632.
Possession, even without explanation, is primafacie evidence
that the holder is the proper owner or lawful possessor of the
instrument; and the settled rule is, that nothing short of fraud
-

not even gross negligence -

is sufficient to overcome the pre-

COMMISSIONERS,

ETC.,

V. CLARK.

[Sup. ot.

sumption and invalidate the title of the holder, as inferred
from his actual custody of the instrument. Goodman v. lHarvey, 4 A. & E. 780; Goodman v. Simonds, 20 How. 367;
Uther v. Bich, 10 A. & E. 784; Arbouin v. Anderson, 1 A. &
E. w. s. 498.
None of these propositions can be controverted; and it follows that where the first indorsee purchases the instrument
before due and pays value, without notice of any prior equities,
the second indorsee holding under the first takes a good title,
even though he had notice of such prior equities, if he pur
chased the instrument in the regular course of business before
it became due, for the reason that he took a new and independent title under another indorser. Bailey v. Bidwell, 13
M. & W. 15.
Notice of such prior equities cannot affect the title of the
second holder, if he acquired title from a prior holder who had
no such knowledge. Byles on Bills (5th Am. ed.), 118; Story
on Notes, sect. 196; Story on Bills, sect. 220.
Suffice it to say, without pursuing the inquiry, the court is
unhesitatingly of the opinion that the exception to the third
instruction must also be overruled.
IV. Proof was offered by the defendants to show that the
charter of the railway company was amended subsequent to
the subscription to the stock, so as to include branches four
hundred and fifty miles in length, in addition to the original
line, without the knowledge or consent of the county commissioners or of the directors of the railway company resident in
the county: but the plaintiff objected to the evidence, and it
was excluded by the court; to which ruling the defendants then
and there excepted, which presents the same question as that
which arises from the exception taken to the fourth instruction
given to the jury, as follows: that the amendment of the
charter is no defence to the action if the bonds were purchased
by the bank before due and for value.
Counties, if duly organized under the law of the State, are
certainly vested with the power to subscribe for stock in a
railway company, and to issue the bonds of the county to pay
for such subscription. Suppose that is so, still it is insisted by
the defendants that the bonds delivered to the railway company

Oct. 1876.]

COiiSSIONERS, ETC., V. CLARK.

in this case impose no pecuniary obligation upon the county,
in consequence of the defects and irregularities in the proceed
ings of the municipal authorities, and the frauds and misrepresentations of the officers and agents of the railway company.
In conducting the defence at the trial, the defendant pro.
ceeded upon the ground that the plaintiff had knowledge of the
supposed defects, irregularities, frauds, and misrepresentations;
but the finding of the jury under the instructions of the court
negatives every such imputation, and shows that the plaintiff
is a hona fide holder of the instruments, having purchased the
same in the usual course of business before due and for value.
That such is the legal effect of the verdict cannot be doubted;
and it appears by the recital of the bonds that they were issued
in payment for two thousand shares of the capital stock of the
railway company subscribed by the county, in pursuance of an
order of the county commissioners, made and entered in their
minutes.
Bonds of the kind executed by a municipal corporation to
aid in the construction of a railroad, if issued in pursuance of a
power conferred by the legislature, are valid commercial instruments, and, if purchased for value in the usual course of business before they are due, give the holder a good title, free of
prior equities between antecedent parties, to the same extent
as in case of bills of exchange and promissory notes. Such a
power is frequently conferred to be exercised in a special
manner, or subject to certain regulations, conditions, or qualifications; but if it appears that the bonds issued show by their
recitals that the power was exercised in the manner required
by the legislature, and that the bonds were issued in conformity
to the prescribed regulations and pursuant to the required
conditions and qualifications, proof that any or all of the
recitals are incorrect will not constitute a defence to the corporation in a suit on the bonds or coupons, if it appears that it
was the sole province of the municipal officers who executed
the bonds to decide whether or not there had been an antecedent compliance with the regulations, conditions, or quali.
fications which it is alleged were not fulfilled. St. 7oseph
Township v. Bogers, 16 Wall. 659; Town of Coloma v. -Eaves,
92 U. S. 484.

FULLER V. YENTZEtt.

[Sup. Ct.

Other cases, too numerous for citation, have been decided by
this court to the same effect, but suffice it to say that we are
all of the opihiion that there is no error in the record.
Judgment affirmed.

FULLER v. YENTZER.
1. The alleged new and useful improvement in mechanism for marking cloth in
sewing-machines, for which letters-patent No. 28,633, bearing date June 6,
1860, were issued to Henry W. Fuller and Anthony W. Goodell, consists
only of a combination of old elements or ingredients constituting an apparatus for effecting the results described in the specification.
2. The rights of the holder of such a patent are not infringed, unless it appears
that, without his authority, the entire combination is made, used, or sold.
8. The apparatus used by the respondents, and that for which said letters-patent
were awarded, described, and the conclusion reached, that they essentially
differ in their construction and mode of operation.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.

Mr. E. B. Barnum and Mr. E. N.
lants.
Mr. Walter B. Scates, contra.

_Diaerson for

the appel-

MR. JuSTiCE CIi'FoRD delivered the opinion of the court.
:Patents for a machine will not be sustained if the claim is for
a result, the established rule being that the invention, if any,
within the meaning of the Patent Act, consists in the means or
apparatus by which the result is obtained, and not merely in
the mode of operation, independent of the mechanical devices
employed; nor will a patent be held valid for a principle or
for an idea, or any other mere abstraction. Burr v. Duryee,
1 Wall. 531.
Where the claim immediately follows the description of the
invention, it may be construed in connection with the explanations given in the description; and, if the claim contains words
referring back to the specification, it cannot 'properly be construed in any other way. Seymour v. Osborne, 11 id. 516.
Improvements in mechanism for marking cloth in a sewingmachine, it is alleged in the bill of complaint, were invented

