Oct. 1876.]

MEmPHL v. BROWN.

now living who represent those for whose benefit the joint
resolution of Congress was passed. They, at least, appear to
have the estate in expectancy. Under these circumstances, as
there is no one else to look after the interests of the succession,
we think they may properly be permitted to do whatever is
necessary to protect it from forfeiture or incumbrance.
The defendants admit that they have determined not to pay
the taxes upon the property. The danger of incumbrance by
reason of this failure to perform their duties as tenants for life
is, therefore, imminent, and the case a proper one for a court of
equity to interfere and grant appropriate relief. In Cairnsv.
Chabut, supra, when the tenant for life failed to keep down the
taxes, an order was made for the appointment of a receiver of
so much of the rents and income of the estate as should be
necessary to pay off and discharge the amounts then in arrear.
We see no reason why similar relief may not be granted in.
respect to the accruing taxes, in case the tenants fail to perform their duties in that b~half ; but,'without undertaking to
direct specifically as to the form iii which the protection asked
shall be secured, we shall reverse the decree, and remand the*
cause to the Circuit Court, with instructions to proceed in conformity to this opinion, as law and justice may require ; and it is
So ordered.

M:EmIpns v.

Bi~oww.

A., having a decree against the city of Memphis for the payment of money, obtained, by judgment rendered March 30, 1875, a mandamus, directing her, for
the payment of the decree, to levy a tax upon all the taxable property of the
city. She thereupon passed an ordinance levying a special tax of fifty-four
cents "on the $100 worth of property." Under the laws of the State, taxable
real and personal property, other than merchants' capital, is embraced in one
'tax-list, and merchants' capital in another. A., finding that such capital was
not subjected to the special tax, although it was to that levied for all other
purposes, and that the required sum would not be raised, moved for a further
peremptory mandamus,requiring such capital, as it was assessed for other purposes in the year 1875, to be included in the property to be taxed for his benefit. Such mandamus was directed by judgment March 2, 1876. On the 20th
of the following May, the city moved to set aside the latter judgment; but
the court refused to grant the motion, and re-entered, on that day, the judgo

MEmPHIS V. BROWN.

[Sup. Ot.

ment as the final judgment in the premises. Thereupon the city, within due
time, sued out a writ of error, and gave the necessary bond. Hdd, 1. That
the court had the right to set aside the judgment of March 2, during the term
at which it was rendered, and to re-enter it as of the date when the motion to
set it aside was made. 2. That the writ of error was properly sued out on the
re-entered judgment, and is a supersedeas.

ON motion, 1. To dismiss a writ of error to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Western District of Tennessee. 2. To vacate the supersedeas.
Brown .obtained a decree in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of Tennessee against the city
of Memphis for $292,000, in conformity with the opinion of
this court in the case reported in 20 Wall. 289.
Upon his petition, that court ordered, March 30, 1875, the
issue of a peremptory writ of mandamus against the city, directing the levy of a tax for his benefit upon all the taxable property of the city. Under the laws of Tennessee, taxable personal
and real property, other than merchants' capital, is embraced
in one tax-list, and merchants' capital in another. In March,
1876, Brown discovered that the tax-collector, pursuant to an
ordinance passed by the city Dec. 10, 1S75, levying " a special
tax of fifty-four cents on the $100 worth of property," was
collecting the tax levied for his account on personal and real
property, but not on merchants' capital, although the city, for
all other purposes, was collecting a tax on merchants' capital.
It appearing that the tax upon the personal and real property alone would not be suflicient to raise the required sum, a
motion was made in the original suit by Brown for a further
peremptory mandamus, requiring the city to include in the
property to be taxed for his benefit the taxable merchants'
capital, as returned and assessed for taxation for other purposes
in the year 1875. This motion was granted March 2, 1876,
and a judgment entered accordingly. Afterwards, during the
same term, May 20, the city appeared and moved the court to
set aside the order of March 2;.but this motion was refused, and
that order re-entered as the final judgment of the court in the
premises. A writ of error was sued out upon this last judgment, and a supersedeas perfected, by giving the required bond
within sixty days thereafter.

Oct. 1876.]

MEMPHIS V.

BRowN.

Mr. P. Pillips and Mr. W. H. -andolph in support of the
motions.
By art. 2, sect. 28, of the Constitution of the State of Tennessee, all property is taxable. No one species is to be taxed
higher than another of equal value, and all taxation is to be
equal and uniform throughout the State.
The judgment of March 80, 1875, requiring that the tax
should be levied on all the taxable property of the city, was
rendered in a direct proceeding, to which the city was a party.
The subsequent orders were mere declarations of what that
judgment contained, and to neither of them does error lie.
The only judgment which can be reviewed is that of March
80, 1875, which settled definitively the rights of the parties,
and to which the city may now prosecute a writ of error. Her
right to do so demonstrates that the present writ cannot be
sustained.
The supersedeas is only to the order of May 20, 1876.
Neither the judgment of March 80, 1875, nor the order of
March 2, 1876, is affected by the present proceedings.
It is very evident that, if either March 80, 1875, or March 2,
1876, be adopted as the day on which the final determination
was had, the supersedeas cannot be maintained, as more than
sixty days from either date had elapsed before the filing of the
writ and bond.
Mr. W
MR. Cm

.

C. .Humes,contra.
JUSTICE

WAITE delivered the- opinion of the

court.
We think that the order made by the Circuit Court, May 20,
1876, upon the motion to subject merchants' capital to the tax
was such a final judgment as may be brought here for re.
examination by a writ of error. The precise question decided
by that order had never before been presented in the cause.
The city was then for the first time required, in express terms,
to subject this particular class of property to the adjudged
taxation. The writ was, therefore, properly sued out upon
the judgment.
Under the ruling in Broekett v. Brockett, 2 How. 241, the
motion made during the term to set aside the judgment of

718

CHESAPEAKE, ETC.

R.R. Co. v.

VIRGINIA.

[Sup. Ct.

March 2 suspended the operation of that judgment, so that it
did not take final effect for the purposes of a writ of error until
May 20, when the motion was disposed of. In addition to this,
the form of the entry of May 20 is equivalent to setting aside
the judgment of March 2, and entering it anew as of that date.
This the court had the right to do during the term, and for the
very purpose of giving it effect for a supersedeas. Sage et al.
v. Central Railroad Company of Iowa et al., 98 U. S.412. As
the writ was issued on the day of the order, and its allowance
embraced in the entry recording the order itself, there cannot
be any doubt of tire intention of the court to give the judgment
at that time such an effect.
Motions denied.

CHESAPEAKE AND

OHIO -RAIRODT

COMPANY V. VIRGNIA.

1. The charter of the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad Company does not exempt
from taxation that portion of the road of the company between Richmond
and Covington.-

2. A railroad corporation, formed, under an act of the legislature, by the consolidation of existing companies, and "vested with all the rights, privileges,
franchises, and property which may have been vested in either company
prior to the act of consolidation," acquires no greater immunity from taxation
than they severally enjoyed as to the portions of the road which belonged
to them under their respective charters. Whatever property was subject
to taxation would, after the consolidation, remain so.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Appeals of the State of
Virginia.
The Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad Company was incorporated in the year 1868, by the action of joint commissioners of
Virginia and West Virginia, in pursuance of the legislation of
those States. The object of the incorporation was to construct
a railroad from Covington in Virginia, through their territory,
to the Ohio River. The Virginia Central Railroad Company
was then operating a continuous line from Richmond to Covington, composed of the Blue Ridge road and of its own road,
running westward until it connected with that road, which was
the property of the State, and so used by arrangement with the
State.

