FULLER V. YENTZEtt.

[Sup. Ct.

Other cases, too numerous for citation, have been decided by
this court to the same effect, but suffice it to say that we are
all of the opihiion that there is no error in the record.
Judgment affirmed.

FULLER v. YENTZER.
1. The alleged new and useful improvement in mechanism for marking cloth in
sewing-machines, for which letters-patent No. 28,633, bearing date June 6,
1860, were issued to Henry W. Fuller and Anthony W. Goodell, consists
only of a combination of old elements or ingredients constituting an apparatus for effecting the results described in the specification.
2. The rights of the holder of such a patent are not infringed, unless it appears
that, without his authority, the entire combination is made, used, or sold.
8. The apparatus used by the respondents, and that for which said letters-patent
were awarded, described, and the conclusion reached, that they essentially
differ in their construction and mode of operation.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.

Mr. E. B. Barnum and Mr. E. N.
lants.
Mr. Walter B. Scates, contra.

_Diaerson for

the appel-

MR. JuSTiCE CIi'FoRD delivered the opinion of the court.
:Patents for a machine will not be sustained if the claim is for
a result, the established rule being that the invention, if any,
within the meaning of the Patent Act, consists in the means or
apparatus by which the result is obtained, and not merely in
the mode of operation, independent of the mechanical devices
employed; nor will a patent be held valid for a principle or
for an idea, or any other mere abstraction. Burr v. Duryee,
1 Wall. 531.
Where the claim immediately follows the description of the
invention, it may be construed in connection with the explanations given in the description; and, if the claim contains words
referring back to the specification, it cannot 'properly be construed in any other way. Seymour v. Osborne, 11 id. 516.
Improvements in mechanism for marking cloth in a sewingmachine, it is alleged in the bill of complaint, were invented

Oct. 1876.]

FULLER V. YENTZER.

and patented by the complainant, and he charges that the respondents have infringed the exclusive privilege secured to him
by the letters-patent, and he prays that they may be decreed
to account for the gains and profits which they have made by
the infringement, avcl for an injunction. Process was served;
and the respondents appeared and filed an answer, setting up
several defences, two of which it will be important to examine
in disposing of the case.- 1. That the complainants are not
the original and first inventors of the patented improvement.
2. That the respondents have never infringed the complainants'
patent, as alleged in the bill of complaint.
Before describing the nature of his invention, the patentee
refers to figure 1 of the drawings, as showing the main features
of the patented improvement when arranged in a sewing-machine for the purpose of accomplishing the results described in
the specification, and he proceeds to state that the invention
consists in a vibrating marking instrument which moves in unison with the neecte of the sewing-machine, so as to crease the
cloth at giveii distances from the needle, the marking instrument not pressing on the cloth except while the needle is in
the cloth, which prevents the cloth from being obstructed in
the movement by the feed, and allows the marking to be made
at any distance from the sewing without wrinkling the even
surface of the cloth.
By the use of a point vibrating in unison with the needle, and
acting on the upper surface of the cloth in connection with a
notch or an elastic surface or pad below the cloth, a crease will
be made whose ridge is below the cloth; and by the use of one,
two, or more of these up or down markers, or one up and one
down marker, the crease or ridge can be made exactly at the
required distance from the line of sewing, and either upward or
downward, according to the way in which the cloth is to be
folded for the subsequent operations.
Where more than one line of sewing is required, the crease or
creases for the next fold are made in the same way; and the
patentee states that the device is especially useful in all kinds
of tucking, and in plaiting shirt-bosoms and other similar work,
and he represents that, by the use of a vibrating pencil or chalk,
a line of marks may be made by which a second line of stitchVOL. IV.

19

FULLER V. YENTZER.

[Sup. Ot.

ing may be guided, which will become useful in quilting, or in
performing any straight, curved, or parallel lines of stitching.
Superadded to that, he also represents that if the marl ing-points
are at right angles to the feed, from the needle, the marking
will be at a given distance from the sewing and parallel thereto,
regardless of the curved or zigzag form in which the sewing is
performed.
Sufficient appears in the preceding description of the invention and of the principal devices of which it is composed,
including the arrangement of the same and their mode of operation, to render it unnecessary to reproduce the minute references in the specifications to the representations exhibited in
the different figures of the drawings.
Throughout the description it is apparent that the patented
apparatus is to be attached to an organized sewing-machine; and
the patentee states that the manner of effecting the attachment
must be varied as circumstances may require, in view of the
structure of the particular sewing-machine and the kind of
work to be performed, and he adds that the vibrating motion
may be given to the marker by the needle-bar or any other
suitable device. Gauges, it seems, are employed for spacing off
the width of the folds, tucks, or plaits; but the patentee states
that. he does not claim those devices, though he is of the opinion that the devices which he employs work better than any he
has before known.
1. What he claims is the forming one, two, or more creases
in cloth by means of markers on opposite sides of the cloth, one
of which is connected with the bed of the machine, and the
other operates simultaneously with the vibrations of the needle
in a sewing-machine, whereby the crease or creases are formed
in the cloth itself, parallel to the line of sewing, in such a manner that the clotli is ready for doubling over at the creases for
the next line of sewing.
2. He also claims marking a line on the surface of cloth or
other material sewed in a sewing-machine, by means of a pencil
or similar article pressed upon the surface of the cloth at the
time the needle perforates the same, and is raised therefrom
when the feed takes place, so as to produce a series of marks
parallel to and simultaneouX with the line of sewing.

Oct. 1876.]

FULLER V. YENTZER.

Concede that a result is not patentable, which is clearly
shown to be true by the preceding remarks, and two things follow as a necessary consequence: 1. That the invention described in the first claim is merely the described apparatus for
forming one, two, or more creases in cloth by means of markers
on opposite sides of the cloth, for the purpose and in the manner
and by the means therein described, it being clearly understood
that the patentee does not claim the described means of attaching the patented apparatus to a sewing-machine. 2. That the
invention described in the second claim is merely the described
apparatus for marking a line on the surface of cloth or other
material sewed on a sewing-machine, by means of a pencil or
similar article pressed upon the surface of the cloth at the time
the needle perforates the same, for the purpose and in the manner and the means described, excluding the means by which
the patented apparatus is attached to a sewing-machine.
Special reference is made to the principal features of a sewing-machine; but inasmuch as the apparatus may be attached
to any such machine, it is not deemed necessary to cuter into
those details, especially as the patentee states to the effect that
the sewing is to be performed by the needle of the machine to
which the apparatus is attached, in connection with a shuttle,
looper, or other similar device.
Particular mention is. made of the operative devices of the
patented apparatus for marking lines parallel to the line of
sewing and for forming the creases in the cloth, as shown in
the drawings. Briefly stated, those devices are as follows:
1. An arm extending from the needle-arm or bar, and vibrating
with the same. 2. -A pencil, chalk, or point adjusted on the
arm of the apparatus so that in its vibrations the point shall
press upon the cloth and make a mark thereon for the second
line of stitches at the required distance from the line of sewing
and parallel to the same. 3. Both the specification and the
drawings also show a bar which, as the patentee states, may be
attached to the presser-foot, so as to be raised up with it, or that
it may be sustained in any other convenient manner. 4. Adjustable marking-arms are also shown, which extend from the
bar of the apparatus, and which are provided, one with a marking-point, and the other with a marking-notch. Arms formed

FULLER V. YENTZER.

rSup. ct.

as springs are also provided, so that the marking-point amd the
marking-notch are raised from the cloth, except when acted on
by the arm of the apparatus. Springs are also used in conneetion with the adjustable marking-arms, so as to yield in case of
inequality in the thickness of cloth and not to interfere with
the full stroke of the needle-bar.
Enough appears to show that the apparatus is attached to the
bed of a sewing-machine, to which a plate is screwed which
carries another adjustable marking-point, formed somewhat
similar to the marking-point previously described, and the device or its equivalent employed to regulate the distance of the
second line from the one being sewed.
Two marking-points are particularly described; and the representation is that they are both made thin, round, blunt, and
chisel-formed, so as not to injure or catch on the cloth, and that
the one shown in the third figure of the drawings may be fitted
,to slide in a groove to render the same adjustable at the desired
distance from the needle, or that several such points may be
formed or attached permanently at short distances apart.
Speaking of the device to regulate the distance for the second
line of sewing, the patentee states that it may be adjustable,
and that it will form a crease for the marking-point, and that
it may be set in a small metal holder, or it may be constructed
of sufficient length to comprise the whole distance to which the
marking-point may be adjusted.
Three marking-points and the notch are mentioned in the
specification ; and the statement is that the one first mentioned
and the device employed to regulate the distance for the second
line produce a downward crease, and that the notch and the
other marking-point shown in the third figure of the drawings
produce an upward crease when the cloth is exposed to the
action of these parts by passing between the same.
In order to give motion to these markers, the bar or arm of
the apparatus strikes on the spring part of the adjustable
marking-arms, which extend from the bar attached to the
presser-foot, pressing the surfaces together, and cramping or
creasing the cloth.
For tucking, the markers should extend on the other side of
the needle-arm, and for that purpose the bar attached to the

Oct. 1876.]

FULLER V. YENTZER.

presser-foot of the sewing-machine may be fitted in any convenient manner; but where a holder or arm to the presser-foot
is used in the manner shown, the hole into which the bar sets
may pass through the same and be provided with a clampingscrew, so that the bar attached to the presser-foot can be inserted
from the other side, and in that case the plate also should stand
on the other side of the needle, a second slot being provided for
the purpose. Change to the other side must also be made in
the arm of the apparatus, extending from the needle-arm of the
sewing-machine to the marking-point first described and the
device to regulate the distance for the second line of stitching.
Corresponding variations must be made in the manner of
attaching the apparatus to the sewing-machine, and the patentee states that the vibrating motion may be given to the
markers by the needle-bar, or by any other suitable device.
Proofs were taken, the parties heard, and the Circuit Court
entered a decree dismissing the bill of complaint, and the complainants appealed to this court.
Want of novelty in the supposed invention, and the denial
of infringement by the respondents, constitute the two defences
set up in the answer; but the evidence to overcome the prima
facie presumption that the patentee is the original and first
inventor being insufficient for the purpose, the first defence
must be overruled.

Cammeyer v. Newton, supra, p. 225.

Grant that, and it follows that the decision in the case before
the court must depend upon the question of infringement.
Without more, the remarks already made are sufficient to show
that the patented improvement is a combination of old elements
constituting an apparatus for effecting the results described in
the specification.
Intentional infringement is alleged by the complainants, and
the burden is upon them to prove the allegation, as the charge
imputes a wrongful act to the respondents.
Where the invention is embodied in a machine, the question
of infringement is best determined by a comparison of the machine or apparatus constructed or used by the respondent -with
the mechanism described in the specification of complainant's
patent. Comparison of the kind has been carefully made
by the court in the case under consideration, aided by the

FULLER V. YENTZER.

[Sup. Ct

expert evidence exhibited in the record; and the court is of
the opinion that the invention of the complainant, when the
patent is properly construed, is not embodied in the apparatus
constructed, sold, or used by the respondents, as charged in the
bill of complaint.
Two distinct devices are shown in the complainants' patent
-vhich operate upon the cloth when being sewed in a sewingmachine, so as by the one to leave a mark, and by the other to
make a crease in the cloth to indicate where it should be folded
for the future operation. Briefly described, one of the devices
consists of a pencil arranged as before explained, and the other
consists of the notch and the point fitting into it, called the
markers, and placed on opposite sides of the cloth, and which
are operated by the needle-arm, and so arranged in their connections as to vibrate in unison with the needle to press the
cloth in the notch while the needle is in the cloth, thereby
forming a crease in the same parallel to the line of sewing, for
the purpose of indicating the place for the next fold.
Creases of the kind are made by the point and notch, but the
pencil is employed to make a mark on the cloth when the cloth
is moved under it, as a guide for folding the cloth, as before
sufficiently explained. No such device as the pencil or its
equivalent is found in the respondents' apparatus, nor any thing
which will perform the same function, or which has or can be
made to have the same mode of operation. Nothing of the
kind is exhibited in their apparatus, nor is any thing of the
kind described in the patent under which they profess to work,
nor are there any means or mechanism exhibited or described
whereby such a device can be employed in the apparatus or be
made to operate to mark the cloth in any manner so that the
same could be evenly folded.
In the complainants' apparatus the pencil is fastened to a bar
which projects out from the needle-arm in nearly a horizontal
direction, entirely unlike any thing shown in the respondents'
apparatus. Projecting outward from the presser-foot, and fastened to it, is a substantial frame-piece, called a bridge by one
of the witnesses, which supports a bar running parallel with
the bed of the machine and nearly parallel with the needle-arm,
which eupports one or more spring-arms, the same being pro-

Oct. 18T6.]

FULLER v. YENTZER.

vided with two slides or markers, - one being a point operating
in an elastic bed fastened to the plate of the marker, and the
other being a point or sharp device fastened to the bed-plate
and operating on an elastic bed .attached to one of the described
spring-arms. Attached to the needle-bar is the arm which supports the pencil, and in the downward movement of the bar it
comes in contact with the spring-arms and causes the described
points to mark the cloth.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, it is clear that the
distinct features of the invention consist in the elevated bar
projecting out of the frame attached to the presser-foot, the
described spring-arm, the bar projecting out from the needlearm with the described points, and the bed-plate on which they
strike.
Turn from that to the patent of the respondents, or to the
apparatus which they make, use, and sell, and it appears beyond
all doubt that the apparatus of the respondents is substantially
different in many respects from the patented improvement of
the complainants. There is no framework in the respondents',
apparatus, projecting out from the presser-foot, nor any horizontal bar projecting out from the framework, nor are there
any spring-arms .attached to any horizontal bar, nor is there any
horizontal bar projecting out from the needle-arm to operate
any such spring-arms as those described in the complainants'
specification.
Instead of that there is, in the apparatus of the respondents,
a pivoted double-spring blade operating on both sides of an
upwardly projecting point. Effective means for operating that
blade are also shown, and it appears that they consist in a
spring-arm attached to the bed-plate of the marker which extends over the double blade, and that a vertical slot is made in
the spring-arm through which the needle passes, and allows the
lower end of the needle-arm\to force the spring down on to the
-double blade while the cloth passes under,the blade and over
the sharp point, by which the elasticity of that portion of the
cloth is lessened so that it will readily bend to form a tuck at
the marked place.
Other differences are also apparent; as, for example, the
spring-arm in the apparatus of the respoidents is not attached

FULLER

v. YmENTZER.

[Sup. Qk.

to the double blade or marker, nor is the double blade attached
to any horizontal bar projecting out from the presser-foot, as i4
the apparatus of the complainants.
Without more, the differences suggested are sufficient to
warrant the conclusion that the construction and mode of operation employed by the respondents is substantially different
from the means and mode of operation described in the specification of the complainants' patent.
Expert witnesses testify that the bar projecting out from the
frame attached to the presser-foot, the spring marker-arm, and
the bed-plate are all necessary in the apparatus of the complainants to perform the function described in the specification, and
the court, without hesitation, concurs in that conclusion; and
the witnesses also state that if any one of those devices -be omitted the apparatus will be wholly inoperative, except that perhaps one marker instead of two might answer the purpose to
some extent, as set forth in the specification.
Beyond doubt, all those devices must co-operate to effect the
described result; and it is equally clear that neither those devices nor any of them can be substituted by any device in the
respondents' patent or apparatus without reconstruction and
invention, nor would any thing short of invention enable the
constructor to successfully use the devices shown in either apparatus in the other, so as to render" the apparatus operative
to effect the result described in the complainants' patent. None
of the elements of the patented apparatus are new, and it follows that the patent consists in the described apparatus or in
the combination of the old elements of which the apparatus is
composed.
Valid letters-patent undoubtedly may be granted for an inveiition which consists entirely in a new combination of old
elements or ingredients, provided it appears that the new combination of the ingredients produces a new and useful result;
but the rule is equally well settled that the invention in such
a case consists merely in the new combination, and that a suit
for infringement cannot be maintained against a party who
constructs or uses a substantially different combination, even
though it includes the exact same elements or ingredients, if
the combination is in fact new and useful, and substantially

Oct. 1876.]

FULLER V. YENTZER.

different from the one which preceded it. Gill v. WFells, 22
Wall. 14.
Such an invention, if it produces a new and useful result, is
the proper subject of a patent, and such a patent is valid and
operative; but the'right of the patentee under it differs in one
respect from those of 'a patentee for an inventidn which consists
of an entire machine, or of a new and useful device, as the
rights of a patentee for a mere combination of old ingredients
are not infringed, unless it appears that the alleged infringer
made, used, or sold the entire combination. Gould v. Rees,
15 Wall. 194; Prouty v. Buggles, 15 Pet. 341; Vance v. Canpbell, 1 Black, 428.
Beyond doubt, that rule is correct; but the mere substitution
of another old ingredient for one of the ingredients of a patented
invention is not a good defence for an infringer, ii the substitute performs the same function as the ingredient for which it
was substituted, and was well known at the date of the patent
as a proper substitute for the omitted ingredient; but the rule
is otherwise if the ingredient substituted was a new one, or
performed a substantially different function, or was not known
at the date of the patent in question as a proper substitute for
the one omitted, as in that event the defendant does not infringe. Boberts v. .arnden, 2 Cliff. 504.
Substantial differences between the apparatus of the respondents and the patented improvement of the complainants other
than those referred to may also be pointed out, which of themselves are quite sufficient to show that the charge of infringement is not established.
By the patent of the respondents it appears that their apparatus contains an additional device, consisting of a, slide-guide,
the function of which appears to be to regulate the width of the
tuck, the scales being marked on the bed-plate to be used as a
guide for that purpose. Plainly no such device is shown in the
appa4atus of the complainants. Instead of that, they adjust
the spring-arms which are on the bar projecting out from the
framework or bridge attached to the presser-foot.
When the slide-guide in the respondents' apparatus is moved,
th6 needle-arm still continues to strike the spring-lever or
spring-arm on the same place; but when the spring-arms in

FULLER V. YENTZER.

[Sup. Or,

the complainants' apparatus are moved on the bar projecting
out from the frame attached to the presser-foot of the sewingmachine, the bar projecting out from the needle-arm necessarily
strikes the spring-arm at another point on the bar, showing that
the two devices operate on distinct principles, as they are controlled and regulated by different mechanical means.
Wide differences also exist in the operation of the markingpoints, when one apparatus is compared with the other. Suitable means for adjusting the marking-point are shown in the
complainants' patent, but the marking-point in the respondents' apparatus is stationary. In the complainants' apparatus
it is adjustable in a slot made in the bed-plate, so that it
may be moved longitudinally to correspond with the notches
or bearings in the end of the spring-arms when the latter are
adjusted, it appearing that one marking-point in that apparatus
projects up from the bed-plate, and that the other markingp~oint extends down from one of the spring-arms; that the
point in the bed-plate operates in a bearing or notch in one of
the spring-arms, and that the other spring-arm has a point
operating in a bed in the slot made- in the bed-plate, which
sho*s that either spring-arm, with its respective marker, may
perform the same functions substantially as the other springarm.
From these remarks, it follows- that the point or bar tor
marking, in the complainants' apparatus, must necessarily be
adjusted in the bed-plate to a distance corresponding to the
movement of the spring-arms. Unlike that, the marking-point
in the respondents' apparatus is stationary, and in that particular is entirely different, as all must admit who have given
the matter any examination whatever.
Besides, there is in the patented apparatus a curved or
movable plate attached to a horizontal arm or frame-piece
fastened to the presser-foot, the function of which plate is the
holding of the cloth smooth on the bed-plate as it passes
through the apparatus. One end of the movable plate is elevated above the bed of the machine, while the other end is
curved, and broaght nearly or quite to the bed-plate of the
marker, and operates independently of the other mechanism.
Compare those means for holding the cloth with the means

Oct. 1876.]

FULLER . YENTZEs.

employed in the apparatus of the respondents, and the difference is at once seen to be material and obvious; as, for example,
the bar which holds the cloth to the bed-plate in the latter
apparatus is attached to one end of the bed-plate, and extends
lengthwise of it, and is rigidly fastened to the marking-blade,
forming a different combination from that exhibited in the
other apparatus, inasmuch as the bar which holds the cloth to
the bed-plate is made to bear harder thereon when the springarm is brought down on the blade than when the needle-arm is
ascending. Detach the bar from the bed-plate in the respondents' apparatus and no marking can be done, but the marker
will continue to perform its function in the complainants'
apparatus, even though the smooth plate were detached from
the device fastened to the presser-foot.
Differences of equal importance might be continued at
much greater length, but the court is of opinion that those
already pointed out are amply sufficient to* show that the
decision of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill of. complaint
is correct, and there is no error in the record.
Decree affirmed.

MR. CmIMF JUSTICE WAITE, MR. JUSTICE MM1LER, MR.
JUSTICE STRONG, and MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY

dissented.

FULLER v. YENTZER.
SA.UI

v. GOODRICH.

1. Reissued letters-patent No. 8,218, granted Dec. 1, 1868, to Henry W. Fuller,
assignee, by mesne assignments, of Israel M. Rose, for an improvement in
a tuck-creasing attachment in sewing-machines, were not superseded by letters-patent No. 28,633, issued June 5, 1860, to Henry W.Fuller and Anthony
W. Goodell.
2. The court holds that the apparatus constructed, used, and sold by the respond.
ents do not infringe ,the complainants' patent.

APPEALS from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Illinois.

