Oct. 1876.]

CAWOOD PATENT.

Other points were raised on the argument, which it is unnecessary to discuss, as this was the principal one relied on, and
presented the only serious difficulty in the case.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUsTIcE Mnxm dissented.
Mn. JUSTiCE FIELD did not sit in this case, nor take any
part in the decision.

CAWOOD PATENT.
IL

ois CFNTRAL RAILROAD Co _A_," v. TuRniRmL;

IoH-

IGAN SOUTHEN AND NORTHERS INDIANA RAIROAD
CoNrPANY v. SA~t; CHICAGO AND ALTON RAIROAD
COMPANY
QUINCY

v. SAAE ; OHICAGO, BRLInTGTOi,
AND
RAILROAD COiPANY- v. SAME; PITTSBURGH,

FORT WAYNE, AND CHIOAGO

RAILWAY

ComPANY v.

SAME.
1. This court, in affirming the v.alidity of the letters-patent No. 15,687, granted
to Joseph D. Cawood Sept. 9, 1856, for "an improvement in the common
anvil or swedge-block for the purpose of welding up and re-forming the ends
of railroad rails when they have been exfoliated, or become shattered from
unequal wear occasioned by the inequalities of the road," &c., which were
before it in Turrill v. Michigan Southern, 6-c. Railroad Co., 1 Wall. 491, holds,
in addition to what was declared in that case, that they embrace a bottom support for the rail on the anvil; and that they are infringed, by the
machines known as the "Illinois Central," the "Etheridge," and the " Whitcomb," but not by those known as the "Bayoneb vise," the "Michigan
Southern," and the "Beebe and Smith."
2. Where an account for the infringement of letters-patent is prayed for and
decreed, the record filed here should set it forth. This court should not be
called upon to perform the duties of a master.
8 Considering the number of feet of rails mended by the respondents in the use
of the machines covered by said letters-patent, and of those which infringe
thm, the gain in mending, compared with the cost of mending on the common anvil, and the saving- in fuel and labor, the damages decreed by the
courthelow are not excessive.
4 In settling an account between a patentee and an infringer of his letters-patent,
the question is not what profits the latter made in his business, or from his
manner of conducting it, but what advantage he derived from his use of the
patented invention.

APPAis from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Illinois.

CAWOOD PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.

The facts ar6 stated in the opinion of the court.
Argued by Mr. George Gifford, Mr. John B. Niles, and Mr.
George Payson, and submitted on printed argument by Afr. B.
Biddle Boberts, for the appellants.
Mr. B. W. Stoughton, contra.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.

These five cases may very conveniently be considered together, since they all present, in the main, the same questions.
The Cawood patent, for alleged infringements of which the
suits were brought, has heretofore been the subject of consideration in this court, where it has been at least partially construed, and its limits have been defined. 1 Wall. 491. It is
a patent "for an alleged new and useful improvement in the
common anvil or swedge-block, for the purpose of welding up
and re-forming the ends of railroad rails when they have exfoliated or become shattered from unequal wear." Such is the
general description given by the patentee in his specification,
followed by a more detailed one, which needs careful consideration, in order to discover what the invention claimed distinctively was. The patentee refers to an annexed drawing, made
a part of the specification, and claimed as giving a perspective
view of the machine or invention. It represents a bed-sill on
which is placed an anvil or swedge-block of cast-iron, across
the face of which there are recesses or dies shaped like the
side of the rail to be repaired. A solid and fixed block, cast
as a part of the anvil, is also represented, with its side face
shaped to the side of the rail when placed in its natural position, and a movable press-block held down upon the anvil by
dovetailed tongues and grooves, and operated by two eccentric
cams, moving it back and forward, toward and from, the fixed
block. The face of the movable block is also shaped to fit the
side of the rail next to it, and the two blocks grasp the rail on
each side while its ends are being re-formed, the movable one
having sufficient travel to allow the rail to be extricated without altering its vertical position. A rail of the T form is also
represented in position between the two press-blocks. Having
thus exhibited.his invention by the drawing, the patentee proceeds to describe bow hA usually makes it, and the manner of

Oct. 1876.]

OAWOOD PATENT.

its use. After having stated that b*z usually makes his improved anvil and swedge-block between four and five feet long,
and sixteen inches wide across the face, with two forms or
recesses at one end, right and left, of a form corresponding to
the sides of the rail, he adds: "Close to these is a cast or raised block nearly as high as the
rail, and with its farther edge also shaped to fit the sides of the
rail, when it lies across the anvil in its natural position. Next this
[says he] I attach to the face of the anvil, by dovetailed tongues
and grooves, or in any other convenient manner, what I call a
movable press-block with a similar but reversed shaped edge, lying
opposite the other, so as to enclose the rail between the two, as in
the jaws of a vise. The blocks I work by eccentric cams on a
shaft which is attached to the anvil by two standards, with bearings either cast on or bolted to the edge of the same, so that half
a turn of the crank will move the press-block over a space a little
more than half the width of the rail."
The mode of use is then described. The rail and the piece
of iron to be welded on having been heated, the former is
swung from the fire into the space between the blocks, when,
by half a turn of the cams, the blocks are closed upon it. The
welding piece is then laid on top of the rail and levelled up
by a swage held by the smith, of the form of that section
which projects above the blocks. Such is the descriotion. It
is succeeded by the claim, as follows:"I do not claim the anvil-block nor its recesses, but what I do
claim as my invention, and desire to secure by letters-patent, is the
movable press-block, having its edge formed to the sides of the
rail in combination with another block with its edge of a similar
but reversed form (the movable block to be operated by two cams,
or in any other convenient manner), for the purpose of pressing
between them a T or otherwise shaped rail, thereby greatly facilitating the difficult operation of welding and renewing the ends of
such rails after they have been damaged, in the manner herein described and set forth."
What, then, in view of this specification and claim, was
the invention patented? IIn !Trrill v. Michigan SouIern,
&'c. Railroad Clo., 1 Wall. 491, this court declared, it to be
"such a movable press-block as is described, having its edge,

CAWOOD PATENT.

[Sup. CL.

formed to the side of the, rail, in combination with such other
block as is described, with its edge of similar but reversed
form, arranged as described, and combined and operating in
the particular way described, for the special purpose of effecting the desired result." This was enough for that case as it
then appeared. But the present case requires a more minute
analysis. Viewing the claim as interpreted by the preceding
description, to which it refers, and by the drawing, it is not
difficult to discover what the patentee supposed he had invented.
It was not any kind of movable press-block combined and
operating in any way, with any kind of fixed block, to effect
any useful result. His avowed purpose was to form a mechanism for welding up and re-forming the ends of exfoliated and
crushed rails, or, rather, to hold them in a convenient position for
such welding and re-forming, at the- same time preserving their
shape. His manner of accomplishing this result was evidently
considered by him as of the very essence of his invention. On
one side of the rail, when on the anvil, it is to be supported by
a fixed, block, part of the anvil itself, shaped reversely so as
to fit the shape of the rail, and on the other it is to be supported and held in place by a movable block with a face adjusted to the shape of the rail on that side, the movable block
capable of advance towards the fixed block, and of retrogradation after the rail is placed on the anvil. The rail is also,
when in place, to be supported under its base by the anvil.
This is fairly deducible from the manifest purpose of the inventor, from his drawing, and from his specification. It is
necessary to the result supposed to have been obtained, for,
unless supported at the base, the heated end of the rail would
be in danger of being driven downward between the blocks by
the blows of the sledge or hammer used in welding, while the
part of the rail not operated upon, being cooler, ivould remain
suspended between the blocks. And that the invention contemplates a bottom support for the rail on the anvil is made
clear by the drawing. That shows no space between the anvil
and the base of the rail. On the contrary, it exhibits a bottom
support on the anvil, as well as lateral supportUy .the modelled
faces of the two blocks. The rail is thus confined on three of
its sides, as in a mould. And the words of the specification.

Oct. 1876.]

CAWOOD PATENT.

fairly construed, convey the same meaning. Thus it is said
the fixed block is cast nearly as high as the anvil, with its
farxther edge shaped to fit the side of the rail, when it lies
across the anvil in its natural position. The rail, then, is to lie
upon the anvil, having the anvil as a bottom support. Unless
it does, the shaped edge of the blocks cannot fit its side.
Having thus endeavored to ascertain what is the true idea of
the patent, we are prepared to examine the devices which the
appellants contend were in existence and use before Cawood
made his invention. Of these there are three only that have
been pressed upon our attention. The first is the angle-iron
machine. Between this and the Cawood machine there are
points of resemblance, but there are also very substantial differences. The purposes and objects sought to be accomplished
by the machines are entirely unlike. It is always of importance to consider the object an inventor of a machine had in
view, because thus the operation of its different parts and the
functions performed by each can be better understood. The
purpose of the angle-iron machine is to facilitate making angleiron. That of the Cawood is to aid in mending rails already
made. The angle-iron machine is a device to assist in welding
together, at right angles with each other, two iron bars, making
a fillet in the interior angle to strengthen the rail when made.
To effect this, the fixed block on the anvil has necessarily a
peculiar construction, unlike that in the Cawood machine. It
is bevelled, or rounded off, at the top of the face opposite the
movable block, so as to give room for the forination of the fillet.
Consequently, that face cannot answer reversely to the face of
the movable block. And not only is the face of the fixed block
uniformly and necessarily unlike that of the fixed block in the
Cawood machine, but its function is entirely different. It is to
furnish support for one of the two bars designed for the formation of the angle iron. One entire limb of the angle iron'is laid
upon top of the block, unconfined laterally, and there exposed
to the hammer, the block being the anvil. The iron is thus
left free to spread out in both directions, instead of being prevented from spreading laterally by the press-block, as in the
Cawood machine. There is nothing to preserve a shape already
formed. The other bar of the angle iron, or its other limb,

OAWOOD PATENT[.

[Sup. (it.

hangs suspended from the upper edge of the fixed block, and is
not supported against the blows of the hammer at any other
part of its height than the under side of the limb which lies on
the block, instead of being supported concurrently at two parts
of its height by the grasp of the two blocks, and supported also
under its base. In the Cawood machine, the hammering is not
over the blocks or upon them, but exclusively on the rail between them. The fixed block in that is not cast quite so
high as the rail, and the new piece is welded on and shaped,
not on or over either block, but yet above the surface of that
part of the anvil that constitutes the block. The patentee,
after stating that the raised block of the anvil is cast "nearly
as high as the rail" (the two blocks thus being made to support
the under side of the crown of the rail, and confining the lower
half of the crown laterally), says, "the welded piece is laid on
top of the rail in the usual way, and levelled up and shaped by
a swedge held by the smith, of the form of that section which
projects above the blocks." Thus the iron is not permitted to
spread laterally under the blows of the hammer over the pressblocks and down between them. In fact, the blocks havenothing to do with the formation of that section of the rail that
projects above them. It is very evident, therefore, that the
fixed block in the angle-iron machine is not intended or adapted
to perform the office which the fixed block does perform in the
Cawood. 'In fact, it cannot perform it. Besides, in the angleiron machine, no provision is made for a bottom support of a
rail. The height of the blocks above the body of the anvil is
not regulated wibh reference to any bottom support, and the
bar between the jaws is held as in a vise. Support beneath the
flange or base of the rail, when in place for reparation, is, as we
have seen, a feature of the Cawood improvement. It would
defeat the purposes and uses of the angle-iron machine. The
bottom serves for an anvil in the Cawood, to resist the downward force of the blows on the_top of the rail and to prevent
forcing the heated iron into the neck 6f the rail and increasing
its length. But one of the objects, and a result secured in the
aigle-iron machine,.is increasing the length and width of that
portion of the bar operated upon by the hammer, the part
which lies upon the fixed block. There is also a wide differ-

Oct. 1876.)

CAWOOD PATENT.

ence in the functions of the movable blocks of the two machines.
That of the angle-iron machine is -principally to act as one of
the jaws of a vise to hold the bar against the fixed block or
raised part of the anvil, while the welding is being made and
while the fillet is being formed in the interior angle. It is not
to preserve the shape of an already formed rail, or to resist the
lateral pressure caused by the hammering. Yet such are the
functions of the Cawood movable block. We think, therefore,
that if the purposes of the two devices be considered, as well as
their possible modes of use, the arrangement of their several
parts respectively to each other, and the different functions of
those parts, it cannot be held that the angle-iron machine contained the invention or involved the principle of the invention
described in the patent granted to Ca*ood.
The second device, which the appellants insist anticipated
the Cawood invention, is what is denominated the ba-yonetmachine, used at the Springfield Armory before 1850 and since,
for forging parts of bayonets. In some particulars there are
resemblances between the devices; but there are obvious dissimilarities, not only in the purpose and r~sults sought to be
obtained, bat in the relation of the parts to each other, in the
work to be done by those parts, in the manner and effect of
their combination, and in their mode 6f operation. The differences-are sufficient, in our opinion, to justify the conclusion that
the machines are different devices, embodying distinct principles. The bayonet-machine is in form and in substance nothing but a hinge-vise, with a peculiar shape of the jaws, intended
to facilitate operations upon the shank and socket of a bayonet. The jaws are fitted to hold the bayonet in place, while the
shank is turned upward, through and above their upper surface,
in order that a flat piece of iron may be welded upon the shank
and prepared to be afterwards converted into a socket. The
lateral surfaces of the jaws come into actual contact with each
other, except, for a short space, equal to the diameter of the
bayonet-shank. They hold only the lower segment of the
shank, allowing the upper segment to project a considerable
distance above the upper surface. The inner surfaces do not
constitute a mould. They do not maintain the shape of the
shank, enclosed within and between them during the process of

CAWOOD PATENT.

[Sup. OCL

top-welding and shaping. They are intended for no such pur.
pose, nor are they fitted for it. Their sole function appears to
be to sustain the shaft of the bayonet in an upright position,
while a flat piece of iron is being welded upon its end. It is
only in a very limited sense that the machine can be called an
anvil. One side of it is stationary, the upper portion of its
front forming what may be called a fixed jaw. The other side,
being merely an arm, vibrates upon a hinge, or upon journals
attaching it to the fixed side, at or near its base. Such are the
leading features of the machine. Comparing them and the
operation of the machine with those of the Cawood, it is very
evident the devices are not substantially the same. The Cawood
is an improved anvil, not a vise. It has a fixed block cast upon
an anvil, and its movable block rests upon the anvil, attached
to it, and moving towards and from the fixed block horizontally,
in a plane parallel with the anvil's upper surface, instead of
moving on the arc of a circle. The two blocks together form a
mould, and they are combined with each other through the anvil.
These are very substantial differences from the bayonet-machine.
The combination through the anvil is essential for the work
intended to be done. It gives the immediate support of the
anvil to the bottom of the rail, as its tread or crown is being
hammered; while in the bayonet-machine the iron enclosed is
supported from beneath, during the process of welding, exclusively by the jaws, at a considerable distance from the point of
connection between them. Again, in the Cawood, the inner
surface of the blocks is designed and fitted to maintain the
shape of the rail while it is hammered, - an office not contemplated for the jaws of the bayonet-machine. The bayonetsocket is fashioned to its desired shape, after the release of the
iron from the jaws. So, also, the relation of the blocks and
jaws to the tail or iron, when in place to be operated upon, is
different in the two machines. In the Cawood; the blocks
come nearly to the top of the rail, affording lateral support to
almost the whole of each side, while in the other there is no
such lateral support. And the hammering is entirely between
the blocks, instead of being partly over or upon them.
Still another important difference is apparent. In the bayonet machine the movable jaw is pushed back by a spring

Oct. 1876.]

CAWOOD PATENT.

interposed between the two arms of the vise, and forced forward
by leverage sufficient to overcome the resistance of the spring,
and hold it compressed while the jaws are in contact with each
other. It is obvious that no such means of moving the movable
block would answer for Cawood's machine. It is true he did
not claim operating it by cams exclusively. He claimed moving
the block by cams, or "in any other convenient manner;" but
that meant by means adapted to the work the machine- was
intended to perform. These several differences are too many
and too great to be considered merely formal. Not only the
object of Cawood's device was novel, but so, also, was the
function of the blocks, their combination with each other, and
the mode of operation. The general appearance of the bayonet
machine, and, as we have said, its distinctive character, was
that of a vise. We think, therefore, it cannot be regarded as
containing the principle embodied in the Cawood invention.
We cannot think it could teach how to make the improvement
in the common anvil or swage-block for re-forming and welding
the ends of railroad rails, which was devised by Cawood, and
which has gone into large use.
It is next contended that the patent was anticipated by the
Church machine, patented in England in 1846. We have
before us the specification, and a model constructed from that
specification. It requires but little attention. It is described
as a machine which may be usefully employed for straightening
and flattening the rails for railways, as well as other similar
uses. As the model represents it, the machine is totally incapable of performing the work of the Cawood machine. It is
not an anvil. There is no fixed block cast as a part of an anvil.
There is a stationary die, part of a frame against which one side
of the rail is placed, to resist the lateral pressure exerted upon
it by a sliding lateral die on the other side of the -rail,and above
is a horizontal bar which is forced downwards by a series of
jointed levers, carrying another die upon the upper surface of
the rail. It is plain this description andl this model could never
-have informed any one of the device Cawood invented. It does
not show how the blocks or jaws can be combined so as to -leave
the upper face of the rail to be repaired exposed for the action
of a swage and a hammer. It is said, however, if the upper

CAWOOD PATENT.

[Sup. Ct

horizontal bar with its die and jointed levers were taken away,
a mechanic might understand how the remnant could be altered
and employed as a Cawood machine is employed, and for the
same uses. That, however, evades the question to be answered,
which is, whether the specification was sufficient to enable a
mechanic skilled in mechanical arts to construct and carry into
practical use the Cawood machine; or, in other words, whether
whatover is essential to the Cawood machine could be read out
of the prior specification. We think no such information was
given by the English patent.
That the old slide vise contains the principle of the Cawood
machine has not been contended with much earnestness, and
certainly it cannot be successfully. Nothing, then, is found in
the case sufficient to show that the patent is void forvant of
novelty of the invention, and the court was not in error in
holding it valid.
We come next to the question whether machines employed
by the defendants in repairing the ends of railroad rails are
infringements of the patent. Those which have been used by
the several companies defendants, and which are claimed to
have been infringements, were, in addition to the Cawood,
seven in number. They were the "Illinois Central," the
"Etheridge," the "Whitcomb or Cleaveland block," the
"Michigan Southern," the " Bayonet vise," the " Beebee and
Smith," and the "Blaine reversible rolls," all of which, except
the last, were held by the Circuit Court to be infringements.
Of these, the Illinois Central Railroad Company has used only
the "Illinois Central," the "Bayonet vise," and the " Beebee
and Smith;" the Pittsburg, Fort Wayne, and Chicago Railroad
Company has used the Whitcomb or Cleaveland block; the
Chicago and Alton Railroad Company has used only the Whitcomb; the Chicago, Burlington, and Quincy Railroad Company
has used only the Cawood and the Etheridge; and the Michigan
Southern and Northern Indiana has used only the Beebee and
Smith, the Bayonet vise, and the Whitcomb.. We have had
before us models and drawings of them all, and we have considered the testimony respecting them which is found in the
records. It is but faintly contended, if at all, that the Illinois
Central, the Etheridge, and the Whitcomb machines are not

Oct. 1876.]

CA.WOOD PATENT.

infringements of the Cawood. The principle of each of them,
the object sought for, thle combijiation and arrangement of the
parts, and the mode of operation for the purpose of effecting
the described result, are so manifestly the same as that described
in the complainant's patent that a detailed examination of them
is unnecessary. But it is earnestly insisted that neither the use
of the Bayonet vise, nor that of the Michigan Southern machine,
nor that of the Beebee and Smith, used by some of the defendants, can rightfully be held to infringe the patent; and such is
our opinion. We have already called attention to the fact that
a very limited construction must be given to the claim of the
Cawood patent, in view of the state of the art when the patent
was granted, and of the explanations contained in the specification. It was said in Turrillv. Michigan Southern, &c. .ailroad
Colopany, supra, "special devices are described as combined
and arranged in a particular manier, and operating only in a
special and peculiar way, for a special purpose, and to effect a
special result." To repeat the definition of the invention given
in that case, it is "of such a movable press-block as is described,
having its edge formed to the side of the rail, in combination
with such other blocks as is described, with its edge of similar
but reversed form, arranged as described, and combined and
operating in the particular way described, for the special
purpose of effecting the desired result."
If the claim be thus limited, if such was the invention Cawood
made, the use of the Bayonet vise and of the Michigan Southern,
cannot, we think, be regarded as an infringement. Both the
machines were manifestly copied from the Springfield machine,
which we have endeavored to show did not anticipate or contain the principle of Cawood's invention. Each is substantially
a vise, and not an anvil. The combination of the blocks is unlike that of the Cawood improved anvil. It is not throughl the
anvil, and the rail when in place for welding and shaping does
not rest on the anvil. The iron to be hammered rests upon the
jaws, and consequently it is much more liable to displacement
than it would be if arranged as described by Cawood. In each
only a part of the force of the blows reaches the anvil; for the
movable block is supported by an arm attached by a hinge, or
by journals, to the base of the block. It is true that by the
vOL. Iv.

45

706

CAWOOD PAT-M.

[Sup. Ct.

change in the shape of the jaws one of the functions of the
Cawood machine is secured, -that of preserving the shape of
the rail during the process of hammering; but that is only one
of the elements of the Cawood. Neither of these two machines
can be said to be an improved anvil or swage-block. In neither
are the two blocks combined by means of an anvil. In neither
is a raised block cast as a part of the anvil. In neither is there
any such movable press-block attached to the anvil as is described in the Cawood patent, combined and operating with the
other parts of the machine in the manner described. And in
neither of them is there any part of an anvil immediately below
and fitted to support the rail when in place for being repaired.
Each of them has, however, all the parts and substantially the
arrangement and combinations of the Springfield machine, and
in principle they are identical with it, the only appreciable
difference being in the shape of the jaws. If, therefore, they
are infringements of the Cawood patent, that patent is void for
want of novelty, for it was aiiticipated by the Springfield. If,
on the other hand, the Cawood machine was novel, as we think
it was, if it was not anticipated by the Springfield, the conclusion is inevitable, that neither the Michigan Southern nor the
Bayonet vise is an infringement.
Much of what we have said is applicable to the Beebee and
Smith machine, the use of which the Circuit Court also held to
be an infringement of the Cawood patent. To the inquiry,
what constitutes an infringement of that patent, it is indispensable to keep in mind what the invention patented is. It is
not,'we repeat, any mode by which the result sought and obtained is secured, but a machine that attains the desired end by
means of described agencies, combined in a described manner
and operating in a described way. Thus the patent was considered in 1 Wallace. Now, we think the Beebee and Smith
machine, though arriving at the same result, does not profess to
attain it by means of the agencies described in the Cawood
patent, or any agencies that can be regarded as equivalents
combined in the manner described by Cawood, and operating in
the same or an equivalent way. True, it is a machine for holding a rail while the exfoliated or crushed end thereof is undergoing reparation, but it performs its functions in a manner

Oct. 1876.]

CAWOOD PATENT.

peculiar to itself, unlike the mode in which the Cawood operates.
The construction of the two machines is very dissimilar. In
the Beebee and Smith there is no fixed, block or jaw a part of
the anvil. Neither is there any movable block or jaw attached
in any manner to the anvil, or connected in- any manner with a
fixed block or with the'anvil. There are two jaws sliding up
and down in a V-shaped notch in an anvil entirely unconnected
with each other, and kept in place only by their own weight
and that of the superincumbent rail. They are not advanced
towards each other, or retired by cams or any equivalent mechanism. When by force of gravity they descend into the Vshaped cavity, and thus approach each other, the rail rests upon
them and not on -the anvil; and when grasped by them, all the
force of the blows necessary in welding is expended upon them
through the rail, and only remotely upon the anvil. Bringing
the jaws together by their gravity cannot be said to be an equivalent for cams or levers, or any other mechanical device. The
Beebee and Smith machine, then, has neither such a fixec block
nor such a movable press-block as is described in the Cawood
machine, nor are the two blocks combined in substantially the
same way, and the mode of operation is substantially unlike
that described by Cawood. It is impossible, therefore, to hold
that its use is an infringement of the complainant's patent.
We do not care to expend much time in refuting the argument of the appellee that a bottom support for the rail in the
use of the Cawood invention is injurious, and that it is, therefore, no essential part of the device patented to him. Considerable evidence has been given tending to show that the face of
the anvil under the jaws has been chipped off, or cut out, and
that thus altered the thing invented works as well, if not better,
than it would if the alteration had not been made. In the
nature of things, this is impossible, and no amount of testimony
can convince us that such is the fact. Manifestly, the chipping
off was made to evade the patenut. The best mode of using the
device would doubtless be to construct the blocks so as to fit
exactly the sides of the rail. Thus, its shape and its height
would be maintained during the process of hammering and
shaping the crown. But this exact fit may not always occur,
and whenever it does not, the bottom support on the anvil is of

CAWOOD PATENT.

[Sup. Or.

importance. This is made evident by the fact that when experiments have been made by chipping off the anvil at the
bottom of the blocks or jaws, if more than about three-eighths of
an inch was removed, it has been found advisable to support the
rail by a roller, as in the Cleaveland vise, or by introducing a key.
It proves nothing to show that rails may be repaired without any
support at their base. Because the invention has been used in
an imperfect condition, or altered slightly in one particular
without serious loss, is no proof that it was no invention, or that
the use of it in its altered condition was no infringement.
It follows, from what we have said; that the decrees must be
reversed and set aside, so far as the defendants have been held
accountable for the use of the Beebee and Smith machine, or
the Bayonet vise, or the Michigan Southern. But "so far as the
Whitcomb, the Etheridge, the Cawood, or the Illinois Central
have been used, the defendants are answerable to the complainant.
We come, then, to the inquiry whether there was error in
the ascertainment of the profits made by the use. of those devices. This inquiry is exceedingly embarrassed by the very
unusual manner of proceeding in the court below. After
having determined that the Cawood patent was valid, the
court, instead of deciding whether there had been any infringement, by a decretal order referred to a master to find what
machines used by the defendants were infringements, and to
state an account between the parties. In obedience to this
order, the master reported that seven machines used by the defendants infringed the patent, and on that assumption he returned stated accounts. This report the court corrected, holding th'at one of the seven machines was not an infringement;
and sent the case back to the master to report the damages
sustained by the plaintiff from the use by the defendants of the
other machines, giving him liberty to reconsider his finding as
to the cost of fuel and labor in repairing rails on the common
anvil amd the plaintiff's machine, with liberty also to hear additional evidence, and report such conclusions as might be warranted by the whole testimony. Under this second reference,
the master submitted another report, to almost the whole of
which exceptions were taken. The court sustained those which

Oct;. 1876.]

CAWOOD )PATENT.

related to the ascertainment of profits made by the defendants,
and the measure thereof; and also sustained those which related to the allowance of profits for the use of the complainant's
machine by the defendants before he had title to the patent, or
any part or interest therein. The effect of this was to set
aside the entire report of the master, so far as it stated an account between the parties. That subject was then all at large;
and without further reference the court proceeded itself to find
the amount of profits the defendants had respectively made by
the use of the invention owned by the plaintiff,. and found the
same to be that for which the final decrees were subsequently
entered. The decree in each of the cases was for much less
than the master had reported. But how it was made up we
are not informed. No account was stated accompanying the
decrees. Though the -bill prayed for an account, and though
an account was decreed, the record shows no account. Nothing
in the decree shows us how many rails had been repaired, or
what portion of the rails. Nothing in the decree exhibits what
was the comparative cost of repairing with the patented machine and with the common anvil. .The cases have come to us,
therefore, in such a condition that we are called upon to perform the duties of a master. This ought not so to be; and probably we would be justified in reversing all the decrees, and
sending the cases back for a statement of accounts. But the
litigation has been long protracted, at great expense to the
parties; and this consideration has indaced us to examine
the evidence submitted to the master, and reported by him,
in order to discover whether there has been an overestimate of
profits in those cases where the defendants used only the machines the use of which was a plain infringement of the Cawood
patent. Without entering into details, we are constrained to
say, that, in our opinion, there has been no such overestimate.
We think the weight of the evidence leads to the conclusion
that the number of feet mended on the infringing machines,
the gain in mending, compared with the cost of mending on
the common anvil (which the court must have determined was
about thirty-six cents per foot), considering the saving of labor
and fuel, were such as justified the decrees that were made.
There are undoubtedly great differences in the statements of

CAWOOD PATENT.

[Sup. Ot.

the witnesses, but we think it is not difficult to see where is
the preponderance of the evidence. The master's estimate was
manifestly too high. We cannot say that of the court was.
And, after the action of the court upon the master's first report,
it must be presumed that no profits were allowed for any use
of the Cawood patent before the plaintiff became its owner.
There is nothing more in these cases that we feel called
upon to notice, except the suggestion that repairing railroad
rails was unprofitable, compared with what might have been
done. It has been argued that it would have been better for
these defendants, if, instead of repairing the crushed and exfoliated ends of the rails, they had cut off the ends and relaid
the sound parts, or had caused the rails to be re-rolled. Experience, it is said, has proved that repairing worn-out ends of
rails is not true economy, and hence it is inferred that defendants have derived no profits from the use of the plaintiff's
invention. The argument is plausible, but it is unsound. Assuming that experience has demonstrated what is claimed, the
defendants undertook to repair their injured rails. They had
the choice of repairing them on the common anvil or on the
complainant's machine. By selecting the latter, they saved a
large part of what they must have expended in the use of the
former. To that extent they had a positive advantage, growing
out of their invasion of the complainant's patent. If their
general business was unprofitable, it was the less so in consequence of their use of the plaintiff's property. They gained,
therefore, to the extent that they saved themselves from loss.
In settling an account between a patentee and an infringer of
the patent, the question is, not what profits the latter has
made in his business, or from his manner of conducting it, but
what advantage has he derived from his use of the patented
invention.
We will pursue the subject no farther. It follows from what
we have said that in those cases in which the defendants have
been charged with the profits made from the use of' the
"Bayonet vise," or the "Michigan Southern" machine, or the
"Beebee and Smith" machine, the decrees of the Circuit Court
are erroneous; while in the other cases, the defendants having
used only the Cawood, or the Etheridge, or the Illinois Central,

Oct. 1876.]

PIKE V. WASSELL.

or the Whitcomb (the infringing machines), we discover no
error. Our judgments, therefore, are as follows: In ll7inois CentralRailroadCompany v. Turrill,and Michigan
Southern and Northern Indiana Railroad Company v. Same,
-Decreesreversed, and causes remandedfor furtherproceedings
in accordance with this opinion.
In Chicago and Alton Railroad Company v. Same, Chicago,
Burlington, and Quincy R aitroad Company v. Same, and -ittsburgh, Port Wayne, and Chicago Railroad Company v. Same,
-Decrees affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FiELD, with whom concurred MR.
SwAyx E, dissenting.

JUSTICE

I dissent from so much of the opinion and judgment in these
cases as approves the estimate of damages made by the court
below.

PIKE V. WAssm.
Certain lands in Arkansas, liable to confiscation under the act of July 17, 1862
(12 Stat. 589), and belonging to A., a non-resident of the State, were seized
Feb. 16, 1865, by. the marshal, pursuant to instructions from the district
attorney, who, on the 17th of thAt month, filed a libel of iflformation against
them in the proper District Court of the United States. On the following
day, a warrant of arrest and monition ;as issued and duly served. The libel
*as amended April 5,so as to embrace other lands of A. On that day a decree
of condemnation, forfeiture, and sale of'all the lands was entered by that court,
and they were sold on the 28th of that month by the marshal, under a venditioni exponas. The purchasers subsequently conveyed them to B. The decree
of condemnation was affirmed by the Circuit Court. A writ of attachment, sued
out of one of the courts cf Arkansas, March 9, 1865, at the suit of sundry creditors of A., was on that day levied upon the same lands. A., by his attorney,
entered his appearance to the suit, and judgment was rendered against him
Sept. 29. All of said lands were sold by the sheriff under a ftier facias. B.
became the purchaser, and refuses to pay taxes upon them, in order that,
by buying them at a sale for delinjuent taxes, his title may be perfected.
A. is still living, and his children brought this suit. Red, 1. That the appearance of A. did not discharge the lien of the attachment. 2. That the levy of
that writ by the sheriff upon the lands seized by the marshal was void, and
that B.'s interest in them is determinable upon the death of A. 3. That the
decree of condemnation did not divest the rights of the attaching creditors in
the lands not seized by the marshal, and that B.'s title to them in fee, acquired
by his purchase at the sheriff's sale, was not affected by the proceedings in

