Ex PARTE CUTTING.

[Sup. Ct.

EX PARTE CUTTING.
1. To entitle a petitioner to a writ of mandamus to compel a circuit court to allow
an appeal from its decree, he must show that he has a clear right to an appeal
which has been refused him by that court.
2. Mandamus does not lie to compel a circuit court to allow an appeal from its
decree by a person not an original party to the suit, unless it appears that
his petition to be allowed to intervene was granted, or that he at least acted,
or was treated, as a party.
8. An appeal does not lie from an order of the court below, denying a motion in
a pending suit, to permit a person to intervene and become a party thereto.
PETITIOIT

for a writ of mandamus to the Circuit Court of

the United States for the Eastern District of Missouri.
George E. Ketcham, on his own behalf and on behalf of all
others holding third mortgage bonds of the Pacific Railroad,
filed a bill in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri, Nov. 11, 1875, against the
Pacific Railroad and certain other defendants, to foreclose a
mortgage given to secure the payment of such bonds.
On Jan. 8, 1876, Thomas P. Akers, a stockholder of the
Pacific Railroad, filed a motion for leave to come and defend
in the action, on the ground that the officers and directors of
the company, being themselves interested in the mortgage,
did not intend to resist the foreclosure, when, as he alleged,
there was a good and valid defence. Feb. 7, by leave of the
court, he filed an answer and cross-bill in the cause. At the
same time the company filed an answer, substantially admitting the allegations in the bill, but concluding as follows :"But, it says, that it is informed that a portion of said stockholders claim that they [the third mortgage bonds] are fraudulent
and void, and that the directors of this defendant are guilty of
fraud in issuing the same. Therefore, this defendant asks this
honorable court to permit any of the stockholders aforesaid to
become a party defendant to this suit, upon a proper showing, and
make such defence in the premises as they may see proper."
March 10, Ketcham, the complainant, moved the court for
an order that the answer and cross-bill of Akers be withdrawn
from the files. March 25, 'Peter Marie, Frank A. Otis,
Robert L. Cutting, Jr., James D. W. Cutting, and George R.

Oct. 1876.]

EX PARTE CUTTING.

Fearing, representing themselves to be stockholders of the
company, on leave filed a petition in the cause, stating "that
Thomas P. Akers, a stockholder of said company, has filed
his answer and cross-bill to the bill of complaint, filed by
complainant in this cause, and in said answer and cross-bill
avers that he files the same, not only for his own benefit as
such stockholder, but for the benefit of all other holders or
owners of the shares of said capital stock who. may come in
and contribute to the cost and expense necessary to the prosecution of the same," and praying "that they may be allowed
to come in and defend the said suit and be made co-defendants
herein with said Thomas P. Akers, and be joined with him as
parties defendant herein, with such other stockholders as may
desire to join them as defendants," and "that they may be
allowed to adopt the said answer and cross-bill as their answer
and cross-bill in this cause, and to join with him in his prayer
for relief in the premises."
The record does not show that any action whatever was
taken by the court upon this petition after it was filed, or that
the parties made any motion in that behalf. It was ordered,
April 3, "that the cross-bill of Thomas P. Akers . . .be
taken from the files of the court, as the same is found to be
defective in form;" "that leave be given to Thomas P. Akers
as a stockholder, and the county of St. Louis, claiming to be a
stockholder, or trustee for stockholders, to file an amended crossbill herein within thirty days, upon giving security for costs in
the sum of e5,O00;" and "that leave be granted to the county
of St. Louis to make answer to the bill of foreclosure in
this cause, and defend against the same."
April 25, Akers and St. Louis County filed their amended
answer and cross-bill pursuant to this leave; but, June 6, they
appeared, and by further leave of the court dismissed their crossbill and withdrew-their answer. This being done, the court,
on the same day, "being fully advised in the premises, and by
consent of the parties to this suit, through their solicitors of
record," entered a decree of foreclosure and sale in accordance
with the prayer of the bill. Neither Cowdrey nor any one of
the present petitioners objected or in any manner interposed
against the decree.

EX PARTE CUTTING.

[Sup. Ct.

. Immediately after the decree was entered the court adjourned for the term. On the first day of the next term,
Sept. 18, a motion was made to confirm a sale which had
been made under, the decree, Sept. 6, and which was reported Sept. 15. On the next day, Sept. 19, N. A. Cowdrey,
Robert L. Cutting, Jr., Peter Marie, Frank A. Otis, Jacob
Cromwell, George L. Kingsland, and George R. Fearing,
acting "not only for their own benefit, but for the benefit of
all other holders or owners of the capital stock of said Pacific
Railroad, who come in and contribute to the cost and
expenses necessary for the prosecution of this suit," filed a
motion and petition "for liberty to intervene to set aside the
decree of June 6, 1876, and sale, and for liberty to demur,
answer, plead, or appeal, as advised." In this petition they set
forth, among other things, that they, as owners in their own
right, and as a committee or agents of others, represented
$3,500,000 out of the $7,000,000 or thereabouts of the capital
stock of the company; that the decree of June 6 had been improvidently entered; "that at the time or just previous to said
order of sale [decree of June 6] being made, the county of St.
Louis withdrew its answer to the complaint, and also a crossbill filed by them, which was pending in this case, without any
notice to your orat6rs or to the stockholders of the Pacific
Railroad; that also Thomas P. Akers, Esq., had filed an
answer and a cross-bill on his own behalf and on behalf of all
the other stockholders, which was then pending in this court,
and which, upon said sixth day of June, he withdrew, without
any notice to the stockholders represented by him;" "that on
or about the second day of February, 1876, they authorized
N. A. Cowdrey, one of the present petitioners for leave to
intervene in this cause,' to commence a suit by bill in equity in
this court against the Pacific Railroad, the Atlantic and
Pacific Railroad Company, Andrew Pierce, . . . C. K. Garrison, . . . and Henry F. Vail and James D. Fisk, to whom
the mortgage sought to be foreclosed was made in trust to
secure the payment of the bonds, and others, directors in said
Pacific Railroad, and directors in said Atlantic and Pacific
Railroad Company;" "that said suit is now pending in this
court;" and that the bill prays, among other things, "for a

Oct. 1876.]

EX PARTE CUWuNG.

cancellation of the outstanding . . .,third mortgage bonds,
alleging the same to have been issued in fraud of the rights of
the stockholders of the Pacific Railroad."
This petition concludes with a prayer, as follows "Your orators humbly pray the honorable court to take their
case into consideration, and, upon finding their allegations and
averments to be true, to make an order of this court that your
orators may be allowed to intervene as parties defendants in this
cause, and they be authorized to make answer, plead, demur, or
to appeal, as they by their counsel shall be advised; and that the
decree of June 6, 1876, and sale thereunder, be set aside, and for
nothing had, or that you will grant such other relief as to equity
appertains.'
Oct. 3, the following order was made :
"1The motion of said Cowdrey and others, for liberty to intervene to set aside the decree and saie herein, was argued by counsel and submitted to the court; on consideration whereof, and
being fully advised in the premises, it is ordered by the court that
said motion be denied."
The same parties then made a motion for leave to file a petition to intervene in the cause, and that the decree and sale
thereunder be set aside and the cause dismissed for want of
jurisdiction ; and this motion was denied.
Oct. 7, they again appeared, and made "application for an
order allowing an appeal to the Supreme Court of the United
States from the order of this court in the matter of N. A. Cowdrey and others;" which was also denied.
The suit of Cowdrey:, referred to in the petition filed Sept. 19,
was commenced Nov. 13, 1875. The appearance of the defendants was entered Dec. 3. The suit was prosecuted by
Cowdrey and others, *hose names are not disclosed; but,
Dec. 6, the complainants moved for leave to strike out the
names of Thomas P. Akers and Johfi S. Vogel, as complainfints, and to discontinue the suit as to them. This motion was
granted Dec. 11. Jan. 7, an amended bill was filed by leave
of the court, to which answers were filed by some of the defendants, Feb. 5. A second amended bill was filed Feb. 7; to
which *answers were filed by some of the defendants, and demurrers by others, Feb. 7, March 11, March 20, ahid, by leave,
VOL. IV.

2

Ex PARTE CUTTING.

[Sup. Or.

Sept. 13. No motions or other proceedings were ever had in
the case, nor any matters therein set down for hearing or
testimony taken.
Upon this state of facts the petitioners now ask that a writ
of mandamus may issue from this court to the judges of the
Circuit Court, " commanding them, or one of them, to grant
your petitioners an appeal to this court from the decrees of
that court in said cause, and to accept bond to act as a supersedeas, and that such appeal be allowed as of the date when
said application was made originally in said court, or when it
was rejected, as this court shall order."
Mr.H1enry Crawford for the petitioners.
Cutting, Marie, and other stockholders, having, by leave of
the court, upon March 25, 1876, made themselves co-defendants
with Akers, and joined with him in his answer and cross-bill,
became real and substantial parties to the suit. Bronson v.
La Crosse Railroad Co., 2 Wall. 283; Railroad Company v.
Bradleys, 7 id. 575; Peck v. N. . d L. Steam Co., 3 Bosw.
622; Thayer v. Tool Co., 4 Gray, 75.
Under such circumstances they are treated as parties to the
suit to the extent to which their respective interests are involved. Story, Eq. PL., sects. 99, 116 ; 2 Daniell, Ch. Pr. 1213;
2 Smith, Ch. Pr. 111.
Persons of the class interested may by petition be made parties and let into the cause, if their rights and those of existing parties are so interwoven that they will be simultaneously
disposed of. 1 Daniell, Ch. Pr. 406; Story, Eq. P1. 116; Wood
v. Dummer, 3 Mason, 315; Gorman v, Russell, 14 Cal. 531.
It is not required, according to any authority on the subject,
that there shall be any formal order making them parties.
The original leave to file their petition is considered to embrace each succeeding application. It ipso facto constitutes
them parties.
Such persons coming in by petition, although they are not,
by formal amendment or otherwise, made parties,. are considered as such in the subsequent proceedings. Mitford, Eq. Pl.
178; Waite v. Simple, 1 S., & S.219 ; Binney's Case, 2 Bland,
99; Warfield v. Banks, 11 G. & J. 97; 1 Daniell, Ch.Pr. 429;
Myers v. Tenn, 5 Wall. 205.

Oct. 1876.]

EX PARTE CUTTING.

In Harrisonv. ixon, 9 Pet. 491,'divers parties not named
as defendants intervened by mere petition in the Circuit'Court,
in a suit brought by a plaintiff, alleging he was the next of kin,
against an executor. No order was asked for or granted making them parties. Their petitions were dismissed, and, upon
the appeal prayed exclusively by such petitioners, the decree
was reversed.
In Ogilvie v. Knox Ins. Co., 2 Black, 539, the same rule was
followed,'and mere petitioners, being of the same class as the
original complainant, were considered to be actual parties to
the suit.
Other cases exhibit the practical application of this rule.
Blossom v. RailroadCompany, 1 Wall. 655; Wittenburg v. United
States, 5 id. 820; Crawshay v. Soutter, 6 id. 739; In re Cook
Younghall Railway Co., 4 Ch. App. 748; Galveston Railroad
v. Cowdrey, 11 Wall. 459.
The withdrawal of their co-defendants, Akers and St. Louis
County, did not eject them from the record, or in any manner
deprive them of the full benefit of the pleading which they
had made their own. Kellogg v. -Forsyth,24 How. 186; Johnson v. ifammersly, 24 Bear. 498; Armstrong v. Stover, 9 id.
277; Todd v. .Daniel,16 Pet. 523.
The stockholders were therefore properly before the court,
and had the clear legal right to a rehearing on the decree of
June 6, or to an appeal therefrom. 2 Daniell, Oh. Pr. 1460;
.Ellison v. Tornas, 1 DeG., J. & S. 18; Kidd v. Cheyne, 18
Jur. 348; Barker v. Barker, 39 N. H. 408; Kellogg v. Forsyth,
supra; Giford v. Hart, 1 Sch. & Lef. 409; Osborne v. Uster,
2 Bro. P. C. 314; Westeott v. Bradford,4 W. C. C. 492; Blossora v. Railroad Company, supra; Wittenberg v. United States,
5 id. 820; Stratton v. Jarvis, 8 Pet. 4; Crawshay v. Soutter,
6 Wall. 739; *Bronsonv. La Crosse Railroad Co., supra; In re
Cook &"Founghall Railway Co., 8upra; lThc'eigh v. United
States, 11 Wall. 259; N. 0. Railroadv. Morgan, 10 id. 256.
MAr. William ff. Evarts and Hr. ,.

0. Broadhead, contra.

Mit. Cn' JUS CE WATFE delivered the opinion of the
court.
To entitle the petitioners to the writ asked- for in this case,

Ex

PARTE CUTTING.

[Sup. Ct.

they must show that they have a clear right to an appeal which
has been refused by the Circuit Court. The office of a mandamus is to compel the performance of a plain and positive duty.
It is issued upon the application of one who has a clear right
to demand such a performance, and who has no other adequate
remedy. It is never granted in anticipation of an omission of
duty, but only after actual default.
This application is for a writ commanding the judges of the
Circuit Court, or one of them, to allow the petitioners an appeal
from the decrees in the cause, and a supersedeas. This is the
only specific relief asked; and, in support of the application, it
is insisted that Marie, Otis, Cutting, Jr., Cutting, and Fearing were admitted as parties to the suit March 25, when
they filed their petition therefor, and that consequently they
were in a position to demand an appeal as parties. It would,
perhaps, be a sufficient answer to this position to say that no
one of these petitioners has ever made application to the Circuit Court or either of the judges for the allowance of an appeal
in his favor as a party to the suit. They have only asked to
be permitted to intervene and become parties, in order that they
might appeal.
But, if this were otherwise, the result would not be different;
for the persons presenting the petition of March 25 never did
in fact become parties, and it is apparent from the record that
their present claim in that regard is an afterthought. They
filed their petition to be made defendants in the suit, but it
was never granted. Not only was no express order made to
that effect, but there is nothing to show that they were ever in
any manner recognized as parties, or that they ever supposed
they were parties. Formal orders were made and conditions
imposed upon the admission of Akers and St. Louis County as
defendants. But they afterwards withdrew, and neither Cutting nor any of his associates attempted to act in their stead.
Subsequently he and some of his co-petitioners united with
other persons in another petition*for leave to intervene, without in any manner claiming advantage from their former action,
or even alluding to it.
We are aware that there are cases in which persons have
been treated as parties to a suit after having filed a petition for

Oct. 1876.]

EX PARTE CUTTING.

leave to come in, when no formal order admitting them appears
in the record, but in all such cases it will be found that they
have acted or have been recognized as parties in the subsequent proceedings in the case.
Thus, in 31fyers v. Fenn,
5 Wall. 205, "the petitions were filed without any order of the
court, but no objection was made, and the hearing went on as
if an order had been granted;" and in Harrison v. Nixon,
9 Pet. 491,. "inquiries were made as to the respective claims,"
as asked for, and "as to all parties who were claimants before
the court by bill, petition, or otherwise, their complaint, petition, and proceedings were dismissed." So, in Ogilviev. KYnox
Ins. N%., 2 Black, 539, petitions were filed by certain creditors
praying to be made parties, and that a receiver might be appointed, which was done; and in Bronson v. Ea Crosse Iailroad Co., 2 Wall. 304, certain stockholders in a corporation were
permitted to appear in a cause to which the corporation was a
party, and present their several claims by answer in the name
of the corporation; b-'t this having been afterwards found to be
irregular, the answers were considered "rather by indulgence
than a matter of strict right as the answer of the individual
stockholders." Upon the same principle, it was held in -Railroad Company v. Bradleys, 7 Wall. 575, that where an appeal
had been prayed for, and subsequently an appeal bond, approved
by one of the judges, had been filed i~n the court, it would be
inferred that an appeal had been allowed, although there was
no express order to that effect in the record.
From this it is apparent that if one wishes to intervene and
become a party to a suit in which he is interested, he must not
only petition the court t6 that effect, but his petition must be
granted; and while it is not necessary for hi i' to show that he
has actually been admitted by an express order entered upon the
record, he must at least make it appear that he has acted or has
been treated as a party. That, as we have seen, is not the case
here. These petitioners seem to have been content to leave
their interests in the hands of Akers; and, when he went out,
they went with him. That the court understood this to be so
ig apparent from the following statement made by the judges
in their return to the rule to show cause: "On June 6, 1876,
. . . said Akers and said St. Louis County withdrew their

HUmES V. SCRUGGS.

LSup. Ct.

answers and dismissed their cross-bills, both said Akers and
said St. Louis County purporting to act for themselves as
stockholders, and for all other stockholders who might join
them."
Upon this state of facts it is impossible to say that the petitioners, or any of them, have, established their right to appeal
as actual parties to the suit before the decree.
No appeal lies from the order of Oct. 8, refusing them leave
to intervene and become parties; for that was only a motion in
the cause, and not an independent suit in equity appealable
here.
Neither can these petitioners appeal as stockholders. Only
parties, or those who represent them, can appeal. The stockholders do not represent the corporation, but for some purposes the corporation represents them. They are sometimes
admitted as parties to a suit, for the purpose of protecting their
own interests in the corporation against unfounded and illegal
claims against it, but this "remedy is an extreme one, and
should be admitted by the court with hesitation and caution."
Bronson v. Ea Crosse Railroad Co., 2 Wall. 302. It is always
addressed to the sound judicial discretion of the court. That
we cannot control by mandamus.
We need not consider what rights these petitioners would
have if Akers had not withdrawn his intervention before the
decree. After his withdrawal, they had no representative
stockholder party to the suit, and their position is the same it
would have been if no parties had ever intervened in their
interest.
Mandamus denied.

HUMES V. SORUGGS.
1 A general replication denies every allegation in the answer of a defendant
not responsive to the bill. Therefore, he must prove his allegation of a
decree in a former suit pleaded by way of estoppel.
2. A decree in a suit between husband and wife, confirming a conveyance of real
estate made to her by him, does not bind his assignee in bankruptcy suing
to set such conveyance aside on the ground that it was made in fraud of
creditors.
B. If money, which a married woman might have had secured to her own use, is
allowed to go into the business of her husband, be mixed with his property,

