'Oct. 1876.]

TOWNsHiP

OF EAST OAKLAND V. SKINNER.

255

mistake, we have no hesitation in deciding that the failure of
this appellant to perfect its appeal has been because of its failure to comply with a rule of practice which has been rigidly
enforced for more than forty years. In addition to this, we are
not satisfied, from the showing made, that at least one of the
counsel for the appellant did not have actual knowledge of the
existence of the rule; and it is very clear that if, after the agents
of the appellant were advised of the demand for security of
some sort, they had exercised any diligence whatever in ascertaining what was actually required of them in the premises,
they would have at once -received the necessary information.
li/otion denied.

TowNsm

OF EAST -OAKLAND V. SHIN-XR.

1. This court concurs in opinion with the Supreme Court of Illinois, that the
fifth section of the act of the general assembly of that State, approved Feb.
18, 1861, conferred no authority upon a municipal corporation to subscribe
to the capital stock of the Paris and Decatur Railroad Company.
2. The township of East Oakland subscribed to that capital stock without being
thereunto authorized, and its bonds, bearing date April 20,1871, and reciting'
that they are issued in payment of such subscription, are void.
3. Where there is a total want of authority.to issue municipal bonds, there can
be no lonafide holding of them.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
This was an action of assumpsit on fifty-four coupons cut
from certain bonds issued by the township of East Oakland,
Ill., in payment of its subscription- of $75,000 to the capital
stock of the Paris and Decatur Railroad Company.
The election authoizing the subscription was held Feb. 1,
1870, and the subscription made Aug. 15 of that year. The
bonds bear date April 20, 1871. The other facts and the pro
visions of the statute applicable to the case are set forth in the
opinion of the court.
The case was tried by the court below without a jury, and
resulted in a judgment for the plaintiff for $9,207.32 and costs.
The township thereupon brought the case here.

256

TOWNSHIP OF EAST OAKLAND V. SKINNER.

[Sup. Ct.

111r. do An M. Palmer for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. B. S. Greene, 1Mr. D. T. Littler, and iMr. James C. Robinson, cotra.
MR. JUSTICE HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant in error brought this suit in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Illinois
against the township of East Oakland, to recover the amount of
certain interest coupons issued with certain bonds by Charles
Clement, supervisor, and as the agent of the said town, upon
a subscription to the stock of the Paris and Decatur Railroad
Company.
The Paris and Decatur Railroad Company is a corporation
of the State of Illinois, organized under an act of the general
assembly of said State, entitled "An Act to incorporate the
Paris and Decatur Railroad Company," approved Feb. 18, 1861,
-with authority to construct, maintain, and operate a railroad
from the town of Paris to the town of Decatur, in said State.
By the fifth section of said act it is provided that "said corporation shall cause books to be opened for subscriptions to the
capital stock thereof, to be divided into shares of fifty dollars
each, at such times and places as they may choose, and shall
give at least thirty days' notice thereof by publication in a
newspaper published in the town or city where said books may
be opened; and if there be no newspaper published therein,
then in the nearest newspaper thereto. It shall be lawful for
all persons of lawful age, or for the agent of any corporate
body, to subscribe any amount to the capital stock of said company."
It was by the authority of this section that the subscription
we are considering was made, and the bonds and coupons issued
in payment therefor. Did this language, "the agent of any
corporate body," give power to a municipal organization to
subscribe and to issue its bonds as was here done?
In the recent case of Campbell v. The Paris J Decatur Rai7road Co. (not yet reported), the Supreme Court of Illinois
passed upon the effect of this statute. After quoting the section as given above, the court say: "This is the only provision
in the charter in reference to subscriptions by either persons or

Oct. 1876.]

ToWNSHIP OF"EAsT OAMLND V. SKINNER.

257

corporations. -It confers no po.ver on municipal corporations to
subscribe for such stock. The provision manifestly refers to
private corporations when it authorizes agents to subscribe. It
does not refer to counties, cities, towns, or townships, and cannot be held to embrace them. No power is conferred to call
the election, or for the town officer to make the subscription, or to issue these or any other bonds." We have not
been furnished with a copy of this decision, but it is referred
to in the briefs of both parties. While its effect or conclusiveness is a subject of difference, the decision itself is not
denied.
If the Supreme Court of a State gives construction-to the
language of a statute, and there have been no conflicting decisions, this court, as a general rule, follows the construction
thus given. Township of Elmwood v. Mfarcy, 92 U. S. 289.
It is said that this decision was exparte,and that the decision was
given on a made-up case, - that the contest was not a real one.
There is no evidence of the truth of these assertions, and we do
not well see how evidence of that character could be produced
to us. If the decision is to be attacked on such grounds, the
proceeding must be had before the court that made it, and upon
notice to all interested.
We are, however, all of the opinion that the unreported case
to which we have referred was rightly decided, and, as an
original question, we concur in the opinion given by the
Supreme Court of Illinois. We think the authority to "the
agent of any corporate body" to subscribe for stock in the railroad company was not intended to include, and did not include,
municipal corporations. It meant private and money-making,
trading or business, corporations. It did not intend to give
authority to any township, however remote from the road, to
become one of its stockholders.
A provision of the Constitution of the State of Illinois, which
took effect on the second day of July, 1870, positively prohibited a subscription to the capital stock of a railroad corporation
by any county, city, township, or other municipality, unles3
such subscription had been authorized under existing laws by
a vote of the people prior to the date mentioned.
The subscription in question was made after July 2, 1870.
VOL IV.

17

UNITED STATES V. YOUNG.

[Sup. Ct.

Had it before that date been authorized under existing laws by
a vote of the people of that town ? The record shows that a
vote of the people had before that time been taken; but it does
not show that it was authorized by existing laws. There was
no authority for submitting that question to the people; and its
absence in the fifth section of the act incorporating the Paris
and Decatur Company is a strong argument that municipalities
were not intended to be included under the general designation
of corporations.
We have held that a town cannot subscribe for stock in a
railroad corporation unless it has the authority of the legislature
for the act. The legislature usually requires the approval of
the electors of the towil,!at an election for that purpose, as a
condition to such subscription. Doubtless the legislature can
impose or omit conditions, in its discretion. But when the
sanction of a popular vote is required, it must be obtained.
We are, therefore, compelled to hold that the subscription of
the town of East Oakland had not been authorized under
existing laws by a vote of the people prior to July 2, 1870.
We have held that there can be no bona fide holding where
the statute did not in law authorize the issue of the bonds.
The objection in such case goes to the point of power. There
is an entire want of jurisdiction over the subject. It is not
the case of an informality, an irregularity, fraud, or excess of
authority in an authorized agent. Where there is a total want
of authority to issue the bonds, there can be no such thing as a
Judgment reversed
bona fide holding.

UM M STATES v. YOUNhTG.
1. The Court of Claims, by granting a new trial after rendering judgment,
and while an appeal therefrom is pending here, vacates the judgment, and
resumes control of the case and the parties.
2. In such a case, a writ of certiorariwill not be granted to compel that court to
send here the proceedings subsequent to the appeal; but the appeal will be
dismissed.
3. After judgment shall have been finally rendered by the Court of Claims, the
proceedings in which the new trial was obtained may be brought here by
appeal for review.

