Oct. 1876.]

UNITED STATES

v. Fox.

UNITED STATES V.

Fox.

1. By a statute of New York, a devise of lands in that State can only be made
to natural persons and to such corporations as are created under the laws
of the State and are authorized to take by devise. A devise, therefore, of
lands in that State to the government of the Unifed States is void.
2. The several States of the Union possess the power to regulate the tenure of
real property within their respective limits, the modes of its acquisition and
transfer, tile rules of its descent, and the extent to which a testamentary
disposition of it may be exercised by its owners.

ERRoR to the Court of Appeals of the State of New York.
In February, 1870, Charles Fox, of the city of New York,
died possessed of certain personal and real property situated in
the State of New York. By his last will and testament, he
devised and bequeathed the whole property, after the payment
of his debts, to the government of the United States, for the
purpose of assisting to discharge the debt created by the war of
the Rebellion. By the government of the United States, the
body politic, the nation known as the United States was meant.
Upon the petition of the District Attorney of the United States,
the will was presented for probate before the Surrogate of the
city and county of New York. The infant heirs of the deceased
contested the will. The Surrogate decreed that the will was
inoperative and void as a devise of real estate; that the United
States could not lawfully take and hold the real estate as
devisee under the will, in trust or otherwise, and that it descended to the heirs-at-law. He at the same time decided that
the will was valid and operative as to the personal estate of the
testator, and that the United States was the sole legatee; and
accordingly admitted the testament to probate as a will of personal estate only. On appeal from the Surrogate, this decree
was affirmed by the Supreme Court, and afterwards by the
Court of Appeals of the State. The case was then brought
here.
12. Asslstant Attorney- GeneraZ Smith for the United States.
1. Though there is in the Federal Constitution no express
delegation of power to accept a devise, it is submitted that the
power of acquiring property for public purposes in any part of
the country, by all the usual methods known to the law, is an

UNITED STATES V..

Fox.

[Sup. Ot.

essential attribute of the sovereignty of the United States, without which it cannot efficiently exercise its functions. There is
no distinction in this respect between real and personal property, or between devises and conveyances. If a State can
forbid the government taking by devise, it may forbid its
taking by grant.
Marshall, C. J., in his opinion in United States v. lfaurice,
2 Brock. 109, answered the objection that the United States
could enter into no contract not previously directed by statute:
"The United States is a government, and -consequently a body
politic and corporate, capable of attaining the objects for which
it was created by the means which are necessary for their
attainment. This great corporation was ordained and established by the American people, and endowed by them with
great powers for important purposes. Its powers are unquestionably limited; but while within those limits, it is as perfect a
government as any other, having all the faculties and properties
belonging to a government, with a perfect right to use them
freely, in order to accomplish the objects of its institutions. It
will certainly require no argument to prove that one of the
means by which some of these objects are to be accomplished
is contract; the government, therefore, is capable of contracting, and its contracts may be made in the name of the United
States."
This court indicated its assent to these propositions in United
States v. Tingey, 5 Pet. 128, where it held, "Upon full consideration of the subject, we are of opinion that the United States
have such a capacity to enter into contracts. It is, in our opinion, an incident to the general right of sovereignty," &c. It
had long before been decided, that, without legislative authority
first obtained, suit might be maintained by the United States
upon such a contract. " It would be strange to deny to them
a right which is secured to every citizen of the United States."
Dugan v. United States, 3 Wheat. 181; Cotton v. United States,
11 How. 231. Upon judgments recovered in such suits it is an
eieryday occurrence for the United States to seize, hold, and
sell land. United States v. Bradley, 10 Pet. 359; United States
v. Lynn, 15 id. 311. In 1870, referring to United States v.
Tingeq, this court said: "The decision was put upon the ground

Oct. 1876.]

UNITED STATES V. FOX.

that the government had the capacity to make the contract;
that the United States were a body politic, and that, as incident
to the general right of sovereignty, it was competent to enter
into any contract not prohibited by law, and found to be expedient in the just exercise of the powers confided to it by the
Constitution. -Duganv. United States, 3 Wheat. 172, was referred to as sustaining this proposition. It was remarked, that
a different principle would involve a denial to the general and
the State governments of the ordinary rights of sovereignty."
United States v. Hfodson, 10 Wall. 407.
Except as involved in the power to borrow money and purchase sites for public works, the power to make contracts is not
expressly given by the Constitution, nor is it, in these decisions,
placed upon any particular provision of that instrument, but is
implied from the existence of a sovereignty to which it is
necessarily incident.
There is no express grant of power to take land for public
uses by right of eminent domain. For more than three-quarters
of our national existence it was exercised only through the
assent and agency of the several States. But, though long
dormant, it has always existed, and is implied in the very idea
of sovereignty. ZKod v. United States, 91 U. S.371 et seg.
By the exercise of the right of eminent domain land is taken
for public uses. If this result can be lawfully secured by a
process in invitum, it would certainly seem that the United
States might also accept land when voluntarily donated or devised. Its power to take and hold land, in order to secure,
liquidate, or compromise debts due to it, has been recognized
by legislation and judicial decision ever since the early days
of the Republic. The validity of the statutes giving priority
to such debts is inferred from the clause relating to the payment of the public debt, because this is an appropriate mea ns of
accomplishing this object. United States v. isher, 2 Cranch,
396; Metropolitan Bankc v. Tan IDyck, 27 N. Y. 437. The act
of July 11, 1798, c. 72, ยง 15, 1 Stat. 594, gives a lien upon
the real estate of public debtors, provides for the sale of it, and
defeats the lien of prior judgment creditors. Thelusson v. ,Smith,
2 Wheat. 396; United States v. .Dunean, 4 McLean, 607, and
12 Ill. 223; United States v. Aleehanies' Bank, Gilpin, 51. A

UNITED STATES v. Fox.

LSup. t

similar royal prerogative in England "goes back as far as the
period of legal memory." Giles v. Grover, 9 Bing. 128, 192;
ooke v. Henderson, 3 Dev. (N. C.) 17.
Thus we see that the government may, with the strong hand,
not only take land to erect forts and buildings thereon, but to
obtain payment of its dues. Neilson v. Lagow, 12 How. 98108.
It not only secures lands by right of eminent domain, by conveyance, by levy and sale under execution, but may also, by
conquest or by proceedings in confiscation, acquire them without the assent of the State where they lie. Titus v. United
States, 20 Wall. 483; United States v. Huckabee, 16 id. 434;
Union Insurance Company v. United States, 6 id. 759. Its
power to take and hold lands, either by gift, contract, or force,
is not derived from, nor can it be defeated by, State legislation.
M31r. James Flynn, contra.
1. New York is a sovereign State (4 Cranch, 209; 3 Cow.
686), and the original owner of the land within her limits.
N. Y. Const., art. 1, sect. 11. Except in cases where jurisdiction is ceded, she has the sovereign and only right -o
make laws relating to that land (47 N. Y. 467; 4 McLean,
230; 19 Wall. 676 ; 17 Johns. 225 ; 20 How. 558; 5 Pet. 398;
1 Wood. & M. 76-80; 1 Kent, Com. 430); and she has never
surrendered the regulation and control of its transmission, by
will or devise. 52 N. Y. 534.
The validity of a devise, and the capacity or incapacity to
devise, depend upon and are governed by the statutes and
judicial decisions of the State within which the land is situate.
Story on Conflict of Laws, sects. 465-474; Mc ormiek v. Sullivant, 10 Wheat. 192; United States v. Crosby, 7 Cranch, 115;
Kerr v. Moon, 9 Wheat. 565-; Boyce v. City of St. Louis, 29
Barb. 650; White v. Howard, 46 N. Y. 144; Levy v. Levy, 33
id. 123, 136, 137; Aicardi v. The State, 19 Wall. 635.
The statute under consideration regulates the transmission
of lands in New York, and in effect declares that they shall be
devised only to such natural persons as are by law capable of
holding by devise, or to such corporations as the State has expressly authorized, by charter or by statute, to take by devise.
Holmes v. Head, 52 N. Y. 340. In this case, the only question

Oct. 1876.]

UNITED STATES v.

Fox.

was as to the meaning of the statute; and it is well settled that
this court will follow the construction given to State statutes
by the comts of a State where the title to real property is
involved. 13 Wall. 306.
2. The United States cannot take by devise. It exists under
and by virtue of a written constitution. It has certain specified powers, and such others as are necessary to carry into
effect those expressly granted. All other powers are reserved
to the States respectively or- to the people. U. S. Const.,
amend. 10; Story on the Const., sect. 1238; 1 Kent, Com.
251-254. Among its enumerated powers is not that of taking
by devise. If it exists, it exists by implication. Te experience of a century in peace and war has demonstrated that
the government can exist without the power to take by devise, and that the'right so to take is not necessary to carry into
effect any express power. 1 Kent, Com. 254; Story on the
Const., sect. 1239.
But if the power to take may be implied, there is no act of
Congress authorizing it. That of May 1, 1820, Rev. Stat., sect.
3736, enacts that "No land shall be purchased on account of
the United States, except under a law authorizing such purchase."
3. The United States has no common law. 8-Pet. 658. The
appellant assumes, however, that certain common-law prerogatives of the king inhere in the United States, and for that reason
are not affected by the statutes of New York.
There is no analogy between the position thus assumed and
the principle that "the king is not bound by any act of Parliament, unless he be named therein by special and particular
words." This principle only extends to the sovereign by or
uilder whom the law was enacted. 3 Keyes, 125.
New York is sovereign, except where she has surrendered her
sovereignty to the United States. The latter is sovereign for
specific purposes; each within its proper sphere is independent
of the other. 21 How. 506. The United States claims not
by virtue of its own laws, but under a will made in professed
pursuance of, and depending for its validity upon, the laws of
another sovereignty; and it is as much bound by those laws as
any foreign state or nation would be, under the same circum-

UNITED STATES

v. Fox.

[Sup. Ot.

stances. Box v. Ohio, 5 How. 410; Mayor of New York v.
Miln, 11 Pet. 102; Barker v. The People, 3 Cow. 686.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The sole question for our consideration in this case is the
validity of a devise to the United States of real estate situated
in the State of New York. The question is to be determined
by the laws of that State. It is not pretended that the United
States may not acquire and hold real property in the State,
whenever such property is needed for the use of the government in the execution of any of its powers; as, for instance,
when needed for arsenals, fortifications, light-houses, customhouses, court-houses, barracks, hospitals, or for any other of the
many public purposes for which such property is used. And
when the property cannot be acquired by voluntary arrangement with its owners, it may be taken against their will by the
United States in the exercise of their power of eminent domain,
upon making just compensation, - a power which can be exercised in their own courts, and would always be resorted to, if,
through caprice of individuals or the hostility of the State legislature, or other cause, harassing conditions were attached to the
acquisition of the required property in any other way. Kohl v.
United States, 91 U. S. 367.
The power of the State to regulate the tenure of real property
within her limits, and the modes of its acquisition and transfer,
and the rules of its descent, and the extent to which a testamentary disposition of it may be exercised by its owners, is
undoubted. It is an established principle of law, everywhere
recognized, arising from the necessity of the case, that the disposition of immovable property, whether by deed, descent, or
any other mode, is exclusively subject to the government within
whose jurisdiction the property is situated. McCormiec v. Sullivant, 10 Wheat. 202. The power of the State in this respect follows from her sovereignty within her limits, as to all
matters over which jurisdiction has not beein expressly or by
necessary implication transferred to the Federal government.
The title and modes of disposition of real property within the
State, whether intervivos or testamentary, are not matters placed

Oct. 1876.]

UNITED STAm

v. Fox.

under the control of Federal authority. Such control would be
foreign to the purposes for which the Federal government was
created, and would seriously embarrass the landed interests of
the State.
Statutes of wills, as is justly observed by the Court of Appeals, are enabling acts, and prior to the statute of 32 Hen.
VIII. there was no general power at common law to devise
lands. The power was opposed to the feudal policy of holding
lands inalienable without the consent of the lord. The English
Statute of Wills became a part of the law of New York upon the
adoption of her Constitution in 1777; and, with some modifications in its language, remains so at this day. Every person
must, therefore, devise his lands in that State within the limitations of the statute or he cannot devise them at all. His
power is bounded by its conditions. That statute provides
that a devise of lands may be made "to any person capable
by law of holding real estate; but no devise to a corporation
shall be valid unless such corporation be expressly authorized
by its charter or by statute to take by devise."
The term "person" as here used applies to natural persons,
and also to artificial persons, - bodies politic, deriving their
existence and powers from legislation, -but cannot be so extended as to include within its meaning the Federal government. It would require an express definition to that effect to
give it a sense thus extended. And the term "corporation" in
the statute applies only to such corporations as are created under
the laws of the State. It was-se--held by the Court of Appeals
in White v. Howard, 46 N. Y. 164, 165, and its construction of
the statute is conclusive upon us. A devise to the United
States of real property situated in that State is, therefore, void.
-Decreeafflrmed.

VOL. IV.

