Oct. 1876.]

CMCAGO, EC. R.R. Co. v. IowA.

CHICAGO, BURLnIaGTOw, AND QuINcy RAILROAD ComrIPAy.Y
V. IOWA.
1. Railroad companies are carriers for hire. Engaged in a public employment
affecting the public interest, they are, unless protected by their charters,
subject to legislative control as to their rates of fare and freight.
2. The Burlington and Missouti River Railroad Company has, within the scope
of the authority conferred by its charter, and subject to the limitations
thereby imposed, the power of a natural person to make contracts in reference to its business. Like such person, it, or its assignee, the plaintiff in
error, is, under the same circumstances, subject at all times to such laws as
the general assembly of the State may from time to time enact.
8. A power of government which actually exists is not lost by non-user. The
fact, therefore, that tihe power of regulating the maximum rates of fare
and freight was not exercised for more than twenty years after the incorporation of that company is unimportant. Nor does it affect the case, that,
before the power was exercised, the company had pledged its income as
security for the payment of debts incurred, and bad leased its-road to a
tenant that relied upon the earnings for the means of paying the stipulated
rent. It could neither grant nor pledge more than it had, and its pledgee or
tenant took the property subject to the exercise by the State of the same
powers of regulation which might have been exercised over the company
itself.
4 The act of the general assembly of the State of Iowa, entitled "An Act to
establish reasonable maximum rates of charges for the transportation of
freight and passengers on the different roads of this State," approved March
23, 1874, is not in conflict with sect 4, art. 1, of the Constitution of Iowa,
-which provides that "all laws of a general nature shall have a uniform
operation," and that "the general assembly shaft not grant to any citizen,
or class of citizens, privileges or immunities which, upon the same terms,
shall not equally belong to all citizens;" nor is it a regulation of interstate commerce.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.
This bill was filed by the Chicago, Burlington, and Quincy
Railroad Company, a corporation created by the laws of Illinois, for an injunction restraining the Attorney-General of the
State of Iowa from prosecuting suits against it or its officers,
under the provisions of an act passed by the legislature of Iowa,
entitled "An Act to establish reasonable maximum rates of
charges for the transportation of freight and passengers &nthe
different railroads of this State," approved March 23, 1874.
The complainant is the lessee of the Burlington and Missouri River Railroad in the State of Iowa; the two roads being

CHICAGO,

ETC.

R.R. Co. v. IowA.

[Sup. CL.

connected by a bridge which crosses the Mississippi River at
Burlington, thus making a continuous and uninterrupted line
of railroad from Chicago, Ill., to Plattsmouth, on the Missouri
River, Iowa.
In constructing its road, the Burlington and Missouri River
Railroad Company executed sundry mortgages upon its property, &c., which are still outstanding.
On Dec. 31, 1872, that company leased its road and branches,
with all their fixtures, appurtenances, and equipments of every
kind, and all their franchises and privileges, to the complain,
ant in perpetuity, and-delivered possession thereof.
By the lease, the complainant covenanted to take immediate
possession of the d~mised premises, and to keep the railroad
and branches equipped, and maintain and operate them in such
manner as to furnish reasonable accommodations to the public,
and to pay all taxes and assessments that might be lawfully
levied, charged, or assessed on the roads and property, or any
part thereof ; to assume all leases, contracts, bonds, and other
obligations of whatever kind; to pay and discharge all debts
aud liabilities of every nature, both principal and interest; to
make to the stockholders of the Burlington and Missouri River
Railroad, and branches, the same amount of dividends per
share that it should make to its own stockholders, and to grant
and secure to them the same benefits and emoluments, of every
description, that its own stockholders might receive, have, or
become entitled to.
The indebtedness, over and above the expenses of keeping the
roads in repair and operation, which the complainant became
liable to pay for the leased roads, amounted to $7,353,950; and
the stock of said roads, upon which it obligated itself to pay dividends, amounts to the further sum of $6,532,552.76 ; and for
the means of payment it relies upon the earnings of the roads.
The complainant claims, that, under the provisions of the
laws of Iowa, which existed and were in force when the Burlington and Missouri River Railroad Company was organized,
and when the money with which its road and branches were
built and equipped, was borrowed, and the mortgages to secure
the payment thereof were executed, the company had the right
to fix, determine, and establish the tariff of rates, for the trans-

Oct. 1876.]

CHICAGo,

C. R.R. Co. v. Iowi.

portation of freight and passengers over its road and branches,
and that it has always heretofore exercised that right, without
question of its power and authority to do so; that this right,
power, and privilege were, by the lease aforesaid, assigned, set
over, and transferred to the complainant, and that it has, ever
since the lease, exercised the power, without question of its
right to do so; that, in the exercise of such power, it has fixed,
and adjusted the tariff of charges for the transportation of persons and property over the road and branches, with a view to
furnishing to the country the greatest facilities of transportation, and at the lowest rates, compatible with the duty of the
complainant to keep the roads in good condition and repair,
and provided with the necessary depots, freight-houses, machine-shops, engines, cars, &c., to meet the demands of business, and to provide the means of defraying the expenses of
operating the roads, paying the .interest upon the indebtedness, and earning reasonable dividends for the stockholders;
and that the earnings of the roads, under the operation of the
tariff so established, have been barely adequate, under careful
and economical management, to such purposes; and that these
ends cannot be attained if the complainant shall be deprived of
its just and lawful right to fix its tariff of charges, and be compelled to conform to the act in question.
It is further charged, that the persons who loaned the money
with which the road and branches were built and -equipped,
and to secure the repayment of which the bonds and mortgages
were executed, did so in reliance upon the earnings of the roads
to refund and repay the money so loaned, and in the full confidence and belief that the right of the company to fix and contiol the tariff of charges for transportation would never be
denied or interfered with.
The complainant insists that the act referred to impairs the
obligation of the contract between the State and the Burlington
and Missouri River Railroad Company, that between that
company and its stock and bond holders, and that between the
Burlington and Missouri River Railroad Company and the complainant; and that it is also a violation of that provision of the
Constitution of the United States which gives to Congress the
power to regulate commerce among the several States.

CHICAGO, ETC. R.R. Co. v.

IowA.

[Sup. 0t.

It also charges that by the said act, and the pretended classification of railroads under it, it is required to transport passengers and property for less compensation than other railroad
companies in the State are allowed to charge and receive for
transporting persons and property, for equal distances, although
the labor, cost, and expense of transportation over the road of
complainant are full as much per mile as the labor, cost, and
expense of like transportation over the roads which are allowed
greater compensation therefor, and that said act is therefore in
conflict with and a violation of the sixth section of art. 1 of
the Constitution of Iowa, which provides that "all laws of a
general nature shall have a uniform operation, and that the
general assembly shall not grant to any citizen, or class of citizens, privileges or immunities which, upon the same terms, shall
not equally belong to all citizens."
The answer, so far as material to the present purpose, admits
most of the allegations of the bill, but denies that the Burlington and Missouri River Railroad Company, either by the charter or the laws of Iowa, had the exclusive right and power to
fix its rates of fare, and denies that any attempt is to be made
to enforce the law, so far as regards inter-state commerce.
On hearing; the court rendered a decree denying the injunction, and dismissing the bill; from which decree complainant
appealed.
The errors complained of are,1. The refusal of the court to grant the injunction.
2. The decree dismissing the bill.
"1r. 0. I. Browning and Hr. F. T. Frelinguysen for the
appellant.
1. The charter of the Burlington and Missouri River Railroad Company is a contract between the company and Iowa,
entitled to the protection of the Constitution of the United
States, and its obligation cannot be impaired by any act passed
by the general assembly of that State. 31iller v. State, 15 Wall.
478; Pacific Railroad Co. v. AKaguire, 20 id. 36; Railroad
Company v. Klaryland, 21 id. 456.
2. Under its charter, and the Constitution and laws of Iowa,
which existed at the time of its organization, that company had
the right to fix the rates of compensation for the transportation

Oct. 1876.]

CHICAGO, ETC. R.R. Co. v. IowA.

159

of persons and property over its road; and this right, a material and valuable part of its ccntract, the State can neither

take away nor impair. Revision of the Lows of Iowa, 1860,
p. 969; chap. 43 of the Iowa Code, 1851, sects. 673-678, 680;
Pierce on Am. Railroad Law, 461; Miller v. State, supra;
Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518; Railroad Company v. J11aryland,supra; Boyle v. Phila.& Reading Railroad
Co., 54 Penn. 312; Penn. Railroad Co. v. Sly, 65 Penn. 207;
Cooley on Const. Lim. 279, and cases there referred to; The
People v. Mfarshall, 6 Ill. 684; Case of the State Freight Tax,
15 Wall. 232; Ang. & Am. on Corp., sect. 111; The People v.
The 31anhattan Co., 9 Wend. 393; Ang. on Carriers, sect. 124;
Te Citizens' .Bank v. Nhantucket Steamboat Co., 2 Story, C. C.
35; Brown v. State of Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419; License Cases,
5 How. 574; Iowa Code, 1851, sects. 729, 734, 736, 738, 750;
0. & 1.HRailroad Co. v. 11oClelland, 25 Ill. 141.
3. The right which the company had under its charter, and
the laws which existed when it was organized, to receive compensation for services, and fix the rates of such compensation,
by making its own contracts therefor, has never been forfeited
or surrendered, but is still an existing right. 11 Stat. 9; Revision of Laws of Iowa, 1860, pp. 215, 216, 999, 1000; 2 Pars.
on Contr. 494, 499; Parkhurstv. Smith, Willes, 332; Session
Acts of Iowa, 1862, 197; id. 1870; 106, 179; Iowa Code, 1873,
239; Session Laws of Iowa, 1868, 13, 66, 68, 167; The People
v. Marshall,supra; Session Acts of Iowa, 1864, 44, sects. 1, 2;
Iowa Code, 1851, c. 43; B. & I. B. Railroad Co. v. White,
5 Iowa, 411; Mayor, &e.v. Second Ave. Railroad Co., 32 N. Y.
261; Mayor, &c. v. Third Ave. Railroad Co., 33 id. 42.
4. The act of the Iowa legislature, entitled "An Act to
establish reasonable maximum rates of charges for the transportation of freights and passengers on the different railroads
of this State," approved March 23, 1874, impairs the obligation
of the charter contract; of the contract between the company
and its stockholders, and bondholders and mortgagees ; and the
contract between the complainant company and the Burlington
and Missouri River Railroad Company; and is therefore unconstitutional, null, and void. Session Acts of Iowa, 1874, p. 61;
Stewart v. Laird, 1 Cranch, 299; M"iartin v. Hunter's Lessee,

CHICAGO,

ETC.

R.R. Co. v. IowA.

[Sup. 0t.

1 Wheat. 351; Cohens v. Virginia, 6 id. 264; Bank of United
States v. Hfalstead, 10 id. 63; Ogden v. Saunders, 12 id. 290;
Surgett v. Lapice, 8 How. 68; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1;
City of New York v. iVIiln, 11 Pet. 157,158; Ohio Life and Trust
Co. v. .Debolt, 16 How. 432; Havemeyer v. Iowa County, 3 Wall.
294; Thomson v. Lee County, id. 327; Larned v. Burlington,
4 id. 275; The City v. Lamson, 9 id. 477; Olcott v. The Supervisors, 16 id. 678; 97tpervisors v. United States, 18 id. 71.
5. The act of the Iowa legislature, now in question, is in
conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States, which provides that "no State shall make
or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any State
deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due
process of law, nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction
the equal protection of the law." Bartemreyer v. Iowa, 18 Wall.
129; Railroad Company v. 1aryland, 21 id. 456; License
Cases, supra; Brown v. State of Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419;
Railroad Commissioners v. P.
0. C. Railroad Co., 63 Mo.
276; 1 Black. Com. 138; 2 Kent, Com. 320; tVynehamer v.
Te People, 13 N. Y. 398, 433; Purapelly v. Green Bay Co.,
13 Wall. 166.
6. The act is in conflict with the provision of the Constitution of the United States which gives to Congress the power to
regulate commerce among the several States. Congress has exercised that power by the statute of June 15, 1866. 14 Stat. 66.
Under it, the authority of the appellant to transport from State
to State, and receive compensation therefor, includes ex necessatati rei the right and power to fix such rates of transportation.
7. The act, so far as it prescribes the rates of compensationi
for the transportation of persons and property, is not a police
regulation, and cannot be maintained under the police power
of the State. License Cases, supra; 4 Black. Com. 162;
2 Bouv. Law Die. 848; Railroad Company v. Puller, 17 Wall.
560; State v. -Noyes, 47 Me. 189; Cooley's Const. Lim. 574
et seq.; Benson v. The Mayor, j'c., 10 Barb. 345; P. W. & B.
Railroad Co. v. Bower, Am. Law Reg., March, 1874, p. 174;
T. 17. J' W. Railway Co. v. Jacksonville, 67 Ill. 40.
8. The act is in conflict with and a violation of sect. 6

Oct. 1876.]

CHICAGO, ETC.

R.R. Co. v. IowA.

ar;. 1, of the Constitution of Iowa, which provides that "all
laws of a general nature shall have a uniform operation; the
general assembly shall not grant to any citizen, or class of citizens, privileges or immunities, which, upon the same terms,
shall not equally belong to all citizens."
r. 1 E. Cutts, Attorney-General of Iowa, contra.
1I. 0
JusTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
Railroad companies are carriers for hire. They are incorpo
rated as such, and given extraordinary powers, in order that they
may the better serve the public in that capacity. They are,
therefore, engaged in a public employment affecting the public
interest, and, under the decision in MYunn v. illinois, supra,
p. 113, subject to legislative control as to their rates of fare and
freight, unless protected by their charters.
The Burlington and Missouri River Railroad Company, the
benefit of whose charter the Chicago, Burlington, and Quincy
Railroad Company now claims, was organized under the general corporation law of Iowa, with power to contract, in reference to its business, the same as private individuals, and to
establish by-laws and make all rules and regulations deemed
expedient in relation to its affairs, but being subject, nevertheless, at all times to such rules and regulations as the general
assembly of Iowa might from time to time enact and provide.
This is, in substance, its charter, and to that extent it is protected as by a contract; for it is now too late to contend that
the charter of a corporation is not a contract within the meaning of that clause in the Constitution of the United States
which prohibits a State from passing any law impairing the
obligation of a contract. Whatever is granted is secured subject only to the limitations and reservations in the charter or
in the laws or constitutions which govern it.
This company, in the transactions of its business, has the
same rights, and is subject to the same control, as private individual!; under the same circumstances. It must carry -when
called upon to do so, and can charge only a reasonable sum for
the carriage. In the absence of any legislative regulation upon
the subject, the courts must decide for it, as they do for private
Von. ,V.

11

CHICAGO, Emr. R.R. Co. v.

Iowi.

[Sup. Or.

persons, when controversies arise, what is reasonable. But
when the legislature steps in and prescribes a maximum of
charge, it operates upon this corporation the same as it does
upon individuals engaged in a similar business. It was within
the power of the company to call upon the legislature to fix
permanently this limit, and make it a part of the charter; and,
if it was refused, to abstain from building the road and establishing the contemplated business. If that had been done, the
charter might have presented a contract against future legislative interference. But it was not; and the company invested
its capital, relying upon the good faith of the people and the
wisdom and impartiality of legislators for protection against
wrong under the form of legislative regulation.
It is a matter of no importance that the power of regulation
now under consideration was not exercised for more than twenty
years after this company was organized. A power of government which actually exists is not lost by non-user. A good
government never puts forth its extraordinary powers, except
under circumstances which require it. That government is the
best which, while performing all its duties, interferes the least
with the lawful pursuits of its people.
In 1691, during the third year of the reign of William and
Mary, Parliament provided for the regulation of the rates of
charges by common carriers. This statute remained in force,
with some amendment, until 1827, when it was repealed, and
it has never been re-enacted. No one supposes that the power
to restore its provisions has been lost. A change of circumstances seemed to render such a regulation no longer necessary,
and it was abandoned for the time. The power was not surrendered. That remains for future exercise, when required.
So here, the power of regulation existed from the beginning,
but it was not exercised until in the judgment of the body
politic the condition of things was such as to render it necessary
for the common good.
Neither does it affect the case that before the power was
exercised the company had pledged its income as security for
the payment of debts incurred, and had leased its road to a tenant that relied upon the earnings for the means of paying the
agreed rent. The company could not grant or pledge rhore

Oct. 1876.]

CHICAGO,

ETC. R.R. Co. v. IowA.

than it bad to give. After the pledge and after the lease the
property remained within the jurisdiction of the State, and continued subject to the same governmental powers that existed
before.
The objection that the statute complained of is void because
it amounts to a regulation of commerce among the States, has
been sufficiently consideted in the case of Nlunn v. llinois.
This road, like the warehouse in that case, is situated within
the limits of a single State. Its business is carried on there,
and its regulation- is a matter of domestic concern. It is employed in State as well as in inter-state commerce, and, until
Congress acts, the State must be permitted to adopt Ekch
rules and regulations as may be necessary for the promotion
of the general welfare of the people within its own jurisdiction, even though in so doing those without may be indirectly
affected.
It remains only to consider whether the statute is in conflict with sect. 4, art. 1, of the Constitution of Iowa, which
provides that "all laws of a general nature shall have a uniform operation," and that "the general assembly shall not
grant to any citizen, or class of citizens, privileges or immunities which, upon the same terms, shall not equally belong to all
citizens."
The statute divides the railroads of the State into classes,
according to business, and establiahes a maximum of rates for
each of the classes. It operates uniformly on each class, and
this is all the Constitution requires. The Supreme Court of the
State, in the case of .ijeAunich v. H. & 3f Railroad Co.,
20 Iowa, 343, in speaking of legislation as to classes, said,
"These laws are general and uniform, not because they operate
upon every person in the State, for they do not, but because
every person who is brought within the relation and circumstances provided for is affected by the law. They are general
and uniform in their operation upon all persons in the like
situation, and the fact of their being general and uniform is not
affected by the number of persons within the scope of their
operation." This act does not grant to any railroad company
privileges or immunities which, upon the same terms, do not
equally belong to every other railroad company. Whenever a

PEIK v. CHICAGO, ETC. RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. a

company comes into any class, it has all the "privileges and
immunities" that have been granted by the statute to any
other company in that class.
It is very clear that a uniform rate of charges for all railroad
companies in the State might operate unjustly upon some. It
was proper, therefore, to provide in some way for an adaptation of the rates to the circumstances of the different roads; and
the general assembly, in the exercise of its legislative discretion, has seen fit to do this by a system of classification.
Whether this was the best thit could have been done is not for
us to decide. Our province is only to determine whether it
could be done at all, and under any circumstances. If it
could, the legislature must decide for itself, subject to no control from us, whether the common good requires that it should
be done.
-Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE

ELD and MR. JUSTICE STRONG dissented.

PEIK V. CmCAGo AND NORTH-WESTERN

CONTArrY.

RAILWAY

LAWRENCE v. SAME.
1. The Chicago and North-western Railway Company was, by its charter, and
the charters of other companies consolidated with it, authorized "to demand
and receive such sum or sums of money for the transportation of persons
and property, and for storage of property, as it shall deem reasonable."
The Constitution of Wisconsin, in force when the charters were granted,
provides that all acts for the creation of corporations within the State "may
be altered or repealed by the legislature at any time after their passage."
Hld, that the legislature had power to prescribe a maximum of charges
to be made by said company for transporting persons or property within
the State, or taken up outside the State and brought within it, or taken up
inside and carried without.
2. Certain Wisconsin railroad corporations were consolidated with others of Illinois on terms which, in effect, required that the consolidated company
should, when operating in Wisconsin, be subject to its laws. Held, that
Wisconsin can legislate for the company in that State precisely as it could
bave legislated for its own original companies, if no consolidation had taken
place.

