BEALL V. WHITE.

[Sup. Ct.

Whether the intoxication was so great as to suspend or
destroy the power of intelligent assent, is a question of fact
Nor does it make any difference that the drunkenness was voluntary and wiLful, for the legal theory is, that, without the
capacity of giving a deliberate assent, no contract can be made.
Story on Contr. (5th ed.) 86. But the author adds, that intoxication only renders the contract voidable, not void; so that the
party intoxicated may, upon recovering his understanding, adopt
it, when it will become obligatory. Reinskoyf v. -Rugge, 37
Ind. 207.
Contracts of the kind are voidable only, not void, and therefore capable of being ratified when the party becomes sober.
Molton v. Camroux, 2 Exeh. 501; MJfatthews v. Baxter, Law
Rep. 8 Exch. 132.
Apply these rules to the facts of the ease as disclosed by the
proofs, and it is clear that there is no error in the record.

BEALL v. WHmTE.
1. Under the act of Congress approved Feb. 22, 1867 (14 Stat. 403), the lien of
a landlord for rent has priority over a deed of trust made by his tenant
after the commencement of the tenancy, whether the chattels covered by the
deed were, when it was executed, upon the demised premises, or were subsequently acquired and placed by the tenant upon them.
2. A statutory lien attaching to personal chattels, although no possession of them
be delivered, has the same operation and efficacy as existed at common law,
where the possession accompanied and followed the deed creating the ien.
8. It is only where no rule of law is infringed, and the rights of third persons are
not prejudiced, that courts of equity will, in certain cases, give effect to
mortgages of subsequently acquired property.
4. A surrender to a landlord is effected either by words manifesting the intention
of the lessee to yield up his estate, or by operation of law, where the parties,
without such words, do some act which implies that they both agree to consider the surrender as made.
5. In this case, the court holds that there was no surrender, either express or by
operation of law.

APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Walter D. Davidge, for the appellants.
Mr. .Enoch Totten, contra.

Oct. 1876.] *

BEALL v. WHITE.

M.. JusTIcE CLiUForD delivered the opinion of the court.
Landlords leasing real-property in this District have a tacit
lien upon such of the personal chattels of the tenant upon the
premises as are subject to execution for debt, commencing with
the tenancy, and continuing for three months after the rent is
due, and until the termination of any action for such rent
brought within said three months. 14 Stat. 404; Fouler v.
Rapley, 15 Wall. 828; Webb v. Sharp, 18 id. 14.
Sufficient appears to show that the executors of Alpheus
Middleton, deceased, and Benjamin Beall, the owner of the
other undivided half, on the 5th of March, 1867, leased the
hotel at the corner of Pennsylvania Avenue and Sixth Street
West, then known as the Clarendon Hotel, to George W.
Bunker and William H. Crosby, for the term of five years
from the first day of April next ensuing, at the yearly rent of
$4,000, payable in monthly instalments the last day of each
month, with the proviso, that if the rent, or any part thereof,
shall be in arrear and unpaid for the space of thirty days, the
tenancy, upon notice thereof being given in writing to the lessees, shall cease and determine, and the same shall be and become'a tenancy at will, determinable as prescribed in the act
of Congress.
Covenants were also contained in the lease by both parties.
On the part of the lessees, for the payment of rent during the
term and in the mode prescribed; that they would not let or
sublet the demised premises without the written consent of the"
lessors; and for the peaceful surrender of the premises at the
end of the term or additional term. Reciprocal covenants were
also made by the lessors for quiet enjoyment, for the renewal
of the lease for another term of five years, if the lessees made
written application for the same within the period therein
specified.
Under that instrument the lessees entered into possession of
the premises, purchased necessary furniture, and commenced
the business of hotel-keeping, the name of the house being
changed to Bunker's Avenue Hotel. At the date of the lease,
Thomas M. Plowman was a silent partner with the lessees in
the business ; and it appears that Crosby, on the 2d of
October in the following year, sold and assigned his interest

384

BEALL V. WHITE.

[Sup. Ct.

in the lease and furniture to Bunker and Plowman, his copartners.
Negotiations took place for the 6nlargement of the hotel; and,
in December following, an adjoining tenement belonging to
Benjamin Beall, in his 6wn right, was leased to Bunker &
Plowman, at the yearly rent of $1,800, payable monthly,
the same having previously been altered and remodelled for the
purpose at great expense, and w-as then fitted up with the
necessary furniture.
Five days.after the commencement of the lease, to wit, April
6, in the same year, the lessees gave a deed of trust upon all
the furniture then in the hotel to Orestes B. Dodge, trustee,
to secure two notes of even date with the deed, each for
$1,250, payable in nine and twelve months. When William
H. Crosby sold and assigned his interest, Bunker & Plowman on the same day, to wit, Oct. 2, in the same year,
gave a deed of trust to Samuel L. Phillips, trustee, upon all
the furniture then in the hotel and all additions to the same,
and all furniture to be placed in the Beall tenement, then
being remodelled, and also upon the demised term and any
further term the grantors may obtain in the Beall property, to
secure two notes of even date, each for the sum of $3,500, payable in six and twelve months, in favor of William H. Crosby,
for his interest in the lease and furniture.
Bunker & Plowman, on the 17th of April following, conveyed
all their leasehold interest in the tenements, then called the
St. James Hotel, together with all the furniture therein, to
Samuel L. Phillips, trustee, to secure a continuing credit given
by Beall & Baker to the grantors, in the amount of $5,000,
to continue for two years. On the 20th of December in the
same year the same grantors gave another deed of trust to
Elias E. White, trustee, to secure a further indebtedness to
Beall & Baker, in the sum of $3,044.77, as appears by the
answer.
Two of the notes secured by the deeds of trust, each payable
in twelve months, are claimed by the Freedman's Savings and
Trust Company, one being -secured in the first trust-deed and
the other in the second, both notes having been taken by the
bank when overdue. Mention should also be made that the

Oct. 1876.j

BEALL V. WHITE.

same grantors, on the 10th of April, two years later, assigned
their leasehold interest and all the furniture in the hotel to
John Spicer, and, late in the same month, put him in possession,
the original lessors refusing to recognize him as tenant. Rent
was subsequently paid, but was received and receipted as due
from Bunker & Plowman.
Suits in -attachment on two of the notes were brought for
rent, on the29th of August in the same year, and two other
sinilar suits were instituted for similar causes, near the close
of the year, in which chattels upon the premises, including both
tenements, were seized, and, judgments of condemnation were
duly rendered.
Enough. appears to show that Bunker & Plowman were
indebted to Beall & Baker, under the deeds of trust executed for' their benefit, in the sum of $10,000, and that it was
at their instance that the trustees proceeded to enforce the
deeds; that the property was sold by the trustees, under the
several deeds of trust, with the .consent of Spicer; and that
the trustees then filed their bill of interpleader against Beall
and Beall & Baker, and the Freedman's Savings and Trust
Company, for the distribution of the fun&.
Process was served, and the respondents appeared and filed
an answer. Proofs were taken, the parties heard, and the court
entered a decree that the deeds of. trust are entitled to priority of satisfaction out of the fund in the hands of the complainants as against the rents to the landlord. Such being
the final decree in the Court of Appeal, Beall & Baker, by
special leave, appealed to this court, and assign for error the
decree of the court below, adjudging that the deeds of trust
are entitled to priority of payment as against the lien of the
landlord.
Priority in favor of the first deed of trust cannot be claimed,
unless the proposition of appellees can be sustained, that the
first tedancy ended when William H. Crosby, with the consent
of the lessors, sold and assigned his interest. in the lease and
furniture to Bunker & Plowman, or when the latter in turn
assigned their leasehold interest in the demised premises and
the furniture in thehotel to John Spicer. Suppose the original
tenancy was unaffected by those events, it follows that the claim
-

-

VOL. IV.

25

BEALL V. WHITE.

[Sup. Ct.

in favor of the first deed of trust is unfounded, as the record
shows that the tenancy commenced before the deed was executed, and the recitals in the deeds showed that the chattels
were upon the premises.
Without more, these remarks are sufficient to show that the
court below erred in that regard, if the original contract of lease
continued in force- unaffected by the described assignments.
Grant that, and it follows that the decree under review is also
erroneous in respect to the claim made in favor of the other
deed of trust, for the same reason, that the tenancy commenced
eighteen months before the deed was executed. Nor can the
appellees derive any benefit from the fact that the deed purports also to convey chattels to be acquired in the future and
placed in the hotel. Liens of the kind, arising under the act
of Congress, attach at the commencement of the tenancy, or
whenever personal chattels, owned by the tenant and subject to
execution for debt, are brought on to the premises. Statutory
liens have, without possession, the same operation and efficacy
that existed in common-law liens where the possession was
delivered. Personal chattels on the premises, sold in the ordinary course of trade, without knowledge of the lien, are not
subject to its operation, or, in other words, the lien in respect
to such sales, where the goods are removed from the premises,
is displaced, and the purchaser takes a perfect title to the property discharged of the lien. Webb v. Marshall, 13 Wall. 15;
Crrant v. Whitwell, 9 Iowa, 158 ; -Doanev. Garretson,24 id. 851 ;
Marr v. Sheffner, 2 East, 523; Burton v. Smith, 13 Pet. 483;
Fowler v. Bapley, 15 Wall. 336.
Beyond question, the remarks made are sufficient to show
that the lien of the landlord, so far as respects the chattels on
the premises, is entitled to priority over the deeds of trust,
unless the proposition of the appellees, that the statutory lien
was displaced by one or both of the subsequent assignments by
the lessees.
Before examining that question, it is proper to consider to
what extent, if at all, the rights of the parties are affected by
the terms of the second deed of trust, which purports to convey
property subsequently acquired by the grantors and placed on
the demised premises. Courts of equity will, in certain cases,

Oct 1876.]

BEALL V. WHITE.

give effect to a mortgage of property to be acquired subsequently, where no rule of law is infringed and the riglits of
third persons are not prejudiced. Pennock,v. Coe, 23 How. 12.
Grants or conveyances of the kind-may, in certain cases, be
valid, subject to those conditions, or, to speak more accurately,
the law will permit the grant or conveyance to take effect upon
the property when it is brought into existence and belongs
to the grantor, in fulfilment of an express agreement, if founded
on a good consideration, and it appears that no rule of law is
infringed and the rights of third persons are not prejudiced.
Story, Eq. Jur. (9th ed.) ยง 1040; Dunham v. Railway Copnpany,
1 Wall. 254; United .States v. New Orleans Railroad,12 id.
362.
Decided cases may be found where the rule, as stated in the
preceding citations, is greatly qualified, and others where it is
expressly denied, if applied. in, the ordinary business transactions. Otis v. Sill, 9 Barb. 111; ilogg v. Baker, 3 M. & W.
198; WTinslow v.Insurance Company,4 Met. 316; Jonesv. Richardson, 10 id. 481; Lunt v. Thornton, 1 Man., Gr. & Sc. 385.
Were it necessary to reconcile the decisions upon the subject,
the effort would be involved in difficulty; but it is,not necessary to make the attempt in this case, as the court is unhesitatingly of the opinion that the deeds of trust in that regard
present no legal obstacle to the claim of the appellants.
Repeated decisions have settled the rule that the lien of the
landlord attaches at the commencement of the tenancy, or
whenever personal chattels, owned by the tenant and subject
to execution for debt, are placed on the demised premises.
Fowler v. Rapley, 15 Wall. 828; WTeb v. Sharp, 13 id. 14.
Decided cases everywhere admit that rule; and yet the second deed of trust in question provided that the grantee should
take not only all the chattels on the premises at 4he date of the
instrument, but also all such as the tenants might have on the
premises in substitution, renewal, or addition to those contained
therein, and all they might have during the continuance of the
term in and about the addition which was then erecting to the
hotel, and which was not leased to the tenants in possession
under the lease until the month of December, 1868, as appears
both by the bill of complaint and the answer. Suffice it to say

BEALL V. WHITE.

[Sup. Ct.

that the terms of the deed of trust are in that regard utterly
inconsistent with the statutory rights of the landlord, and must
give place to the superior claim of the appellants.
Concede all that, and still it is insisted by the appellees that
the statutory lien for rent has been lost, because it was not seasonably enforced; and they assign two reasons for the conclusion: 1. That the first term ended and the second began when
William H. Crosby retired and Plowman was substituted in his
place, with the consent of the lessors. 2. That the second term
ended when Bunker & Plowman in their turn left the premises,
and tha the third term commenced when Spicer, with the approbation of the lessors, entered into possession of the hotel
and became its proprietor.
Changes of the kind were made; and the appellees submit
the proposition that each one of the same effected by operation of law a surrender of the previous term, and created both
a new tenancy and a new term. Two things which are unlike
should be separately considered; and for that reason the alleged
surrenders of the term will be separately examined.
Both the pleadings and evidence show that Plowman, though
not named in the original lease, was, in fact, a silent partner,
and that he was interested in the contract; and the evidence
also shows that the arrangement that Crosby should retire and
that Plowman should take his place was a matter which the
parties adjusted between themselves, doubtless with the consent
of the senior partner named in the lease. All three were originally interested, each having a third interest; and the reasonable inference from the evidence is, that the other two, when
Crosby retired, became joint owners of the entire interest conveyed by the lease. Evidence to show that the lessors, other
than Benjamin Beall, were ever consulted is entirely wanting;
and there is neither fact nor circumstance in the case to show
that the parties, or any one of them, ever for a moment supposed that the term was surrendered, or that a new term was
created by the transaction. Whitney v. HZyers, 1 Duer, 266.
No new writings were executed, nor was any change made in
the management of the property, except that one party interested retired, and another, who had an equal interest in the
adventure, joined with the senior partner in conducting the

Oct. 1876.]

BEALL v. WHITE.

business, and contributed his proportion of the means to pay
the past and accruing rent. 1 Washb. Real Prop. (4th ed.)
649.
Rent was subsequently paid by the tenant in possession; but
there is no evidence in the case which has thd least tendency
to show that there was any surrender in fact of the term, or
that any one of the parties ever had any such intention. Lyon
v. Beed, 13 M. & W. 285. Indeed, it is not even suggested
that there was any surrender in fact.
What the appellees suggest is, that these acts of the parties,
proved, constitute a surrender by operation of law, even though
such was not their intention. Such a conclusion may, in certain cases, arise by operation of law, as where the owner of a
particular estate has been a party to some act, the validity of
which he is by law afterwards estopped from disputing, and
which would not be valid if his particular estate continued to
exist.
Text-writers agree that a surrender is the yielding up the
estate to the landlord, so that the leasehold interest becomes
extinct by mutual agreement betfveen the parties. It is either
in express words, by which the lessee manifests his intention
of yielding up his interest in the premises, or by operation of
law, when the parties without express surrender do some act
which implies that they have both agreed to consider the surrender as made. Taylor on Land- & Ten. (6th ed.) 392;
Woodfall on Land. & Ten. (9th ed.) 267.
Decided cases to the same effect are very numerous, and they
show that the evidence in this case is not sufficient to warrant
the conclusion that there was any surrender of the term when
Crosby retired and Plowman took his place. Schieffelen v.
Carpenter, 15 Wend. 404; Field v. Mlls, 33 N. J. 259;
Boardmanv. Wilson, Law Rep. 40. B. 57 ; Bedford v. Terhune,
30 N. Y. 458.
Attempt is next made to maintain the proposition that
the term under the original lease terminated when Bunker and
Plowman assigned or agreed to assign all their interest in the
lease and furniture of the hotel to John Spicer, as alleged in
the answer.
Satisfactory proof is exhibited that they agreed to make the

BEALL V. WHITE.

[Sup. Ct.

assignment, and it is certain that he went into possession of
the premises as proprietor; and the theory of the appellees is,
that Benjamin Beall assented to the transfer of the lease and
the personal chattels, and that he agreed to accept the assignee
as tenant of the demised premises. Testimony to tha't effect
was given by several witnesses examined, by the appellees, as
exhibited in the record.
Opposed to that is the testimony of Benjamin Beall, who
was called and examined in behalf of the appellants. He testifies that he never consented to the substitution. Instead of
that, his testimony is that he peremptorily refused to recognize
Spicer as tenant when be called upon him and made request to
that effect; that the interview was before any assignment had
been completed with the tenants in possession, and that he
then informed Spicer that he would give him the benefit of an
extension of the lease.
Full proof is also exhibited in the record that the owners of
the hotel and furniture, on the 28th of April, 1871, gave written notice to the lessees in possession that they would, on the
following day, take possession of the furniture and fixtures of
the hotel, and that the marshal had been directed to attach the
same. From that notice it also appears that they referred to a
statement in a morning paper, that the hotel had changed
hands, and stated that the change was not authorized by them,
and that they would not sanction any such arrangement.
Nothing is wanted to show that the lessees knew that the
acting lessor would not consent to any surrender of the term.
Rent, it is admitted, was subsequently paid to him by Spicer;
but the evidence shows that he receipted for it to the lessees
who made the assignment, but without his consent. Amory v.
Kannoffsky, 117 Mass. 354.
Taken as a whole, the evidence satisfies the court that there
was no actual surrender of the term, and that the acts of the
lessors, when properly understood, do not tend to prove the
theory of the appellees, that there was any surrender by operation of law, within the meaning of that phrase as expounded
by the decided cases. Phen6 v. Poplewall, 12 C. B. . s.
334.
Evidence to support such a theory, so far as respects all of

Oct. 1876.]

MCCREADY V. VIRGINIA.

the owners of the property and furniture, except one, is en
tirely wanting, as no application was ever made to any other
one of the owners to give their consent to the arrangement, nor
was any evidence introduced to show that they had knowledge
that any thing of the kind was proposed.
Sufficient appears to show not only that Beall knew what
the proposal was, but that he also knew what the parties, as
between themselves, carried into effect. Much coiiflict exists
in the evidence as to whether he consented to it or not; but, in
view of the written notice given to the lessees before the
change of proprietors was carried into effect, the better opinion
is, that the change was made without having secured his consent.
.Decree reversed, and cause remanded with directions to enter a
decree, adjudgingthat the Ziens of the landlord have priority
over the deeds of trust.

McCRPADY v.VRGnn&.
1. Subject to the paramount right of navigation, the regulation of which in reia.
tion to foreign and inter-state commerce has been granted to the United
States, each State owns the beds of all tide-waters within its jurisdiction, and
may appropriate them, to be used by its citizens as a common for taking and
cultivating fish, if navigation be not thereby obstructed.
2. The right which the citizens of the State thus acquire is a property right,
and not a mere privilege or immunity of citizenship.
3. The second section of the fourth article of the Constitution, which declares
that "the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States," does not vest the citizens of one State
with any interest in the common property of the citizens of another State.
4. A law of Virginia, by which only such persons as are not citizens of that
State are prohibited from planting oysters in the soil covered by her tidewaters, is neither a regulation of commerce nor a violation of any privilege
or immunity of inter-state citizenship.

EnROR to the Supreme Court of Appeals of the State of
Virginia.
McCready, a citizen of Maryland, was indicted, convicted,
and fined 8500, in the Circuit Court-of Gloucester County, Va.,
for planting oysters in Ware River, a stream in which the tide

