STORI V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. CI;.

duty to apply the law to the facts as found, and not to decide
upon the weight of the evidence.
Upon the facts set forth in the special finding this judgment
cannot be sustained, because of the omission to state the amount
of the loss. In our action upon the appeal we do not look
beyond the finding.
Judgment reversed on account of an insufficient finding, and
cause remanded for such further proceedings as law and
justice may require.

STORM V. UNITED STATES.
1. Alleged errors, not presented by a bill of exceptions, nor otherwise apparent
on the face of the record, are not the proper subjects of re-examination by
an appellate tribunal.
2. Defendants who have actually received the consideration of a written agreement cannot, in an action brought against them for a breach of their covenants, set up that the agreement did not bind the plaintiff to perform his
covenants, provided it appears that he has performed them in good faith
and without prejudice to the defendants.
8. Questions propounded to a witness, on his cross-examination, merely to ascertain the names of persons whom a party may desire to call as witnesses to
disprove the case of the opposite party, may be excluded; and it is within
the discretion of the presiding judge to determine, in view of the evidence
previously introduced, and of the nature of the testimony given by the witness in his examination-in-chief, to what extent a cross-examination, with a
view to affect his credibility, shall be allowed.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of California.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Submitted on printed arguments by Hr. Quinton Corwine
for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Assistant Attorney- General
Smith for the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE C=rFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

Errors of the Circuit Court resting in parol cannot be re-examined in this court by writ of error. Instead of that, the writ
of error addresses itself to the record; and the rule is, that,
whenever the error is apparent in the record, whether it be
made to appear by bill of exceptions, an agreed statement of

Oct. 1876.]

STORM V. UNITED

STATES.

facts, or by demurrer, the error. is open to re-examination and
correction.
Whatever error of the court is apparent in the record, whether
it be in the foundation, proceedings, judgment, or execution of
the suit, may be re-examined and corrected; but neither the
rulings of the court in admitting or excluding evidence, nor the
instructions given by the court to the jury, are a part of the record, unless made so by a proper bill of exceptions. Suydam v.
Williamson, 20 How. 433.
Two of the defendants, to wit, Storm and Shrader, entered
into a written contract with the assistant quartermaster of the
army, acting in behalf of the United States, to deliver at the
several places therein mentioned, in and about the harbor of
San Francisco, in such quantities and such monthly proportions
as the quartermaster should determine, 1,000,000 pounds of
barley, 1,000,000 pounds of oats, 2,000,000 pounds of hay,
called oat hay, and 500,000 pounds of straw; it being stipulated
that the contractors should receive, as payment for the supplies
delivered and accepted under the contract, the following prices,
in gold coin, or equivalent in legal-tender :notes; to wit, $10.65
for each 1,000 pounds of barley, $12.65 for each 1,000, pounds
of oats, $5.90 for each 1,000 pounds of hay, and $4.30 for each
1,000 pounds of straw.
Forage and straw to be delivered, it was stipulated, should b6,
of the best quality in the market; and if, in the opinion of the
commanding officer at the place of delivery, it was unfit or of a
quality inferior to that prescribed by the contract, it was stipulated that a survey should be held by one or more officers, to
be designated by the commanding officer, and that the. board of
survey should have power to reject the whole, or such portions
of the same as appeared unfit for issue, or of a quality inferior
to the contract.
Supplies of the kind were to be not only of the best quality
in the market, but clean and fit for immediate use. In case of
failure or deficiency in quantity or quality delivered, power was
vested by the contract in the assistant quartermaster or his successor to supply the deficiency by purchase in open market; and
the contract provides that the contractors shall pay the difference in cost in gold coin, or its equivalent in legal-tender notes.

STORM V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Public contractors of the kind are required to give bond with
sureties to the United States for the faithful performance of
their contracts; and the declaration shows that the contractors
in this case gave bond to the United States, with the other two
defendants as sureties, in the sum of $12,000, conditioned that,
if the contractors observe, perform, fulfil, and keep the covenants and stipulations of their written agreement, the obligation
shall be void; otherwise, to remain in full force and virtue.
Breaches of the conditions occurred, as the United States
alleged, and they instituted the present action cf debt on the
bond against the principals and their sureties. Distinct breaches
of the agreement were assigned in the declaration, as fully
appears in the record.
Service was made, and the defendants appeared and filed an
answer, setting forth the following defences: 1. They deny
all and singular the allegations of the declaration. 2. That
at the close of December, 1870, there was due and owing to
the contractors under the agreement the sum of $1,476.43, for
supplies furnished and accepted by the commanding officers at
the respective places of delivery. 3. That the contractors up
to that time and during that month had delivered all such
quantities and proportions of forage and straw as were required
by the assistant quartermaster, and of the best quality in the
market. 4. That the assistant quartermaster during the whole
of that time had funds on hand to pay and discharge the full
amount due to the contractors, as contemplated by the agreement. 5. That the quartermaster wrongfully refused to pay
the amount due and owing to the contractors, or any part
thereof. 6. That the contractors, in consequence of such
wrongful refusal and neglect to pay and discharge the amount
due and owing to them, on the d of January, 1871, personally
notified the assistant quartermaster that they elected to treat
the agreement as rescinded and abandoned, and that they did
not intend to furnish any more supplies under the same.
Subsequently the parties went to trial, and the verdict and
judgment were for the plaintiffs, in the sum of "$2,615.40.
Exceptions were duly filed by the defendants, and they sued.
out a writ of error, and removed the cause into this court.
Since the case was entered here, the defendants below have

Oct. 1876.]

STORM V. UNITED STATES.

filed %brief, as required by the rules of the court; but it does
not contain either a statement of the case or an assignment of
errors. Such a party, under such circumstances, is not entitled
to be heard; but inasmuch as the plaintiffs below have filed a
printed brief in the case, without objecting that the defendants
have not complied with the twenty-first rule, the court will
proceed to. examine the questions presented in the bill of
exceptions exhibited in the record.
Sufficient appears there to show that the plaintiffs offered the
described agreement in evidence to sustain the issues on their
part, and that the defendants objected to the introduction'of
the same, insisting that the agreement was not mutually obligatory, that it was given without consideration, and that it was
inoperative and void; but the court overruled the objection, and
the agreement was read in evidence to the jury.
Evidence was also introduced by the plaintiffs to prove the
quantity and value of the grain, forage, and straw bought in
open market by the plaintiffs, by reason of the failure of the
defendants to deliver the quantity and quality which they
agreed to furnish, in order to show the difference between the
contract price and the price paid by the plaintiffs in the open
market, and the consequent loss to the plaintiffs, as alleged in
their complaint. Inquiries were made of the witness as to the
quantities and qualities of the supplies so purchased in behalf
of the plaintiffs during the three months next following the
time of the attempted rescission of the agreement by the defendants, and the witness gave the price paid for each parcel,
and added, that the prices paid were the regular market prices
in gold coin, and perhaps a little less than he charged to other
customers. He stated, on cross-examination, that sometimes,
when he did not have the supplies wanted on hand, he went
out and purchased what was necessary to fill the order, and
that he usually filled the orders on the same or the following
day.
Without entering fully into the details of the testimony, it is
proper to remark that he testified that he furnished 69,008
pounds of oats, 77,518 pounds of hay, and 25,789 pounds of
straw before the month closed in which the defendants gave
the notice of their intention to rescind the contract. In the

STORM V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

course of his examination-in-chief the witness gave the name of
a firm of whom he bought some hay to fill some one of the
orders, and the defendants inquired of whom he purchased the
quantity of oats charged to the United States in his account;
to which interrogation the plaintiffs objected, and the court
sustained the objection and excluded the question.
Due exceptions were taken to the preceding rulings, and the
defendants asked the witness if he did not commute with some
of the subordinate officers for some portion of the forage to
which they were entitled, paying them in money instead of
forage, grain, or straw; and, if so, he was asked to state what
quantity of such supplies were charged on his books during
those three months as having been purchased in open market,
which were not so purchased, but were commuted by the witness with the officers, paying them money instead of delivering
the required supplies; to which the witness replied that he
could tell by looking at his books. He was then requested by
the defendants to look at his books and to state what amount
of such supplies, within that period, was charged by him which
was not purchased in open market and delivered to the United
States. Prompt objection was made to the question as irrelevant and imniaterial, and it was excluded by the court.
Testimony, undisputed and uncontradicted, was introduced,
showing that during the first six months of the year the quartermaster's requisitions for oats, barley, hay, and straw for the
military posts named in the agreement were not in excess of
the quantity prescribed by law, nor in excess of the quantity
required in the requisitions and estimates of the post quartermasters, and. that the United States paid for the quantity
estimated in such requisitions and no more, and that such payments were only made after receipts and vouchers were received from the proper officer at the military post, showing to
the satisfaction of the quartermaster that the requisition had
been filled as in the ordinary and usual course of business of the
quartermaster's office.
Enough has already been remarked to show that the action
is an action of debt founded on the bond given by the defendants to secure the faithful performance of covenants contained
in their previously described written agreement. Reference

Oct. 1876.1

SOORUc V. UNITED STATES.

has already been made to all the exceptions taken by the
defendants to the rulings of the court during the trial before
the jury; but it is also objected in argument here that the
bond described in the complaint was not produced at the trial,
and that no copy of it was ever filed in the case. Such an
objection, if it had been made in the court below, might have
been available for the defendants, unless the plaintiffs had
overcome it by producing the instrument, or by showing its
loss and due search for it without success, and had offered secondary proof of its contents. Parol proof of the contents of a
lost instrument of the kind, is admissible, provided it appear
that proper search has been made for it without success.
Had the defendants intended to insist that the bond should
be given in evidence, they should have made that intention
known at the trial; and, if not given in evidence, they might
have requested the court to direct a verdict in their favor, and,
in case their request had been refused, they would have had
the right to except to the ruling of the court in refusing their
request for instruction. Nothing of the kind was done; and,
for aught that appears in the record, it may be that the bond
was given in evidence, or, if not, that the defendants waived
the right to require its production.
Errors apparent in the record, though not presented by a
bill of exceptions, may be re-examined by writ of error in an
appellate tribunal; but alleged errors, not presented by a bill
of exceptions, nor apparent on the face of the record, are not
the proper subjects of re-examination by writ of error in this
court.
Parties dissatisfied with the ruling of a subordinate court,
and intending to seek a revision of the same in the Appellate
Court, must take care to raise the questions to be re-examined,
and must see to it that the questions are made to appear in the
record; for nothing is error in law except what is apparent on
the face of the record by bill of exceptions, or an agreed statement of facts, or in some ofie of the methods known to the
practice of courts of error for the accomplishment of that
object.
Suydam v. Williamson, 20 How. 433; Garland v.
-Davis, 4 id. 181; Steph. on Plead. 121; ,S.lamm v. Pomeroy,
6 Cranch, 221; Strother v. Hfutchinson, 4 Bing. N. C. 83.
voL. Iv.

6

STORM V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Two additional remarks should be made respecting the
written agreement before proceeding to examine the questions
presented in the bill of exceptions: 1. That it was duly executed by the assietant quartermaster and the contractors, under
the hand and seal of the respective parties. 2. That it contains the provision that it "may be terminated at such time as
the quartermaster-general may direct," and that it is made
subject to the approval of the department and division commanders.
Substantial breaches of the covenants of the agreement having occurred, the United States brought suit on the bond given
to secure its faithful performance; and, when the United States
offered the agreement in evidence to support the issues on their
part, the defendants objected to its admissibility, insisting that
it is a nudum pactum; that it appears on its face that it might
have been terminated at,any time at the election of the plaintiffs; that it is. not mutualiy binding, and that, inasmuch as it
is wanting in that respect, it is without consideration, and is
inoperative and void.
Though no such error is assigned in this court, still it is
obvious from the course of the argument exhibited in the brief
that the defendants intend to maintain the same proposition
in this court. Attempt was not made to invalidate the bond
in that respect in the court below, nor is any such attempt
made here by the defendants. What they do attempt to show
is, that the agreement is inoperative, because it contains the
provision that it may be terminated at such time as the quartermaster-general may direct, and in consequence of the provision that it is made subject to the approval of the department
and division commanders.
Beyond doubt, the written agreement went into operation;
and it-is not even suggested that the department and division
commanders ever expressed any disappro al of its terms and
conditions, nor does the record furnish any evidence to raise a
doubt that it was fully approved by all whose assent was necessary to give it a binding obligation. Suppose it to be true that
the quartermaster-general might terminate it, if he shou]d see
fit, it is a sufficient answer to the suggestion to say, that he
never did interfere in the matter, and that the contract con-

Oct. 1876.]

STORM V. UNITED STATES.

tinued in full force and operation throughout the whole period
for which the necessary supplies were purchased by the United
States in open market.
Where the defendant has actually received the consideration
of a written agreement, it is no answer to an action brought
against him for a breach of his covenants in the same to say,
that the agreement did not bind the plaintiff to perform the
promises on his part tl' sin contained, . provided it appears
that the promises in question have, in fact, been performed in
good faith, and without prejudice to t' e defendant. Addison
on Contr. (6th ed.) 15; .Mo. ton v. Burr, 7 Ad. & Ell. 25.
Agreements are frequently made which are not, in a certain
sense, binding on both sides at the time when executed, and in
which the whole duty to be performed rests-primarily with one
of the contracting parties. Contracts of guaranty may fall
under that class, as when a person solicits another to employ a
particular individual as his agent for a specified period, and
engages that if the person addressed will do so, he, the applicant, will be responsible for the moneys the agent shall receive
and neglect to pay over during that time.. The party indemnifled in such a case is not bound to employ the party designated
by the guarantor; but if he do employ him in pursuance of
the promise, the guaranty attaches and 'becomes binding on
the party who gave it. Kennaway v. -Trelcavan, 5 Mees. &
W. 501.
Cases often arise where the agreement consists of mutual
promises, the one promise being the consideration for the other;.
and it has never been seriously questioned that such an agreement is valid, and that the parties are bound to fulfil their
respective stipulations. Miles v. Blacicall, f1 Ad. & Ell.
1. s. 865; Emerson v. Slater, 22 How. 85.
Such a defence could not be sustained, even if the action was
upon a simple contract; but the agreement here is under seal,
and the action is an action of debt founded on the bond given
to secure the performance of the agreement; and A is an elementary rule, that a bond or other specialty is pres mned to
have been made upon good consideration, so long as the instrument remains unimpeached. Taylor, Evid.. (6th ed.) 103;
Lowe v. Peers, 4 Burr. 2225; .Dorrv. .tfunsell, 13 Johns. 481.

STORM V. UNITED

TATES.Sp

[Sup. Gt.

Want of consideration is not a sufficient answer to an action
on a sealed instrument. The seal imports a consideration, or
renders proof of consideration unnecessary; because the instrument binds the parties by force of the natural presumption that
an instrument executed with so much deliberation and solemnity is founded upon some sufficient casuse. Parker v. Parmele, 20 Johns. 134; 1 Smith, Lead. Cas. (7th Am. ed.) 698;
1 Chitty on Contr. (11th Am. ed.) 20; Paige v. Parker,
8 Gray, 213; Wing v. Chase, 35 Me. 265; 2 B1. Com. 446;
Pallowes v. Taylor, 7 Term, 473.
Seasonable exception was taken by the defendants to the
ruling of the court, excluding the question propounded to the
witness called by the plaintiffs, of whom he purchased the quantity of oats which he furnished to the Unifed States. Three
grounds are suggested to show that the defendants were entitled to have an answer: 1. That the answer might have
affected the credibility of the witness. 2. That the defendants, if the name of the seller of the oats bad been given,
might have called him as a witness, and perhaps might have
proved by him that the price paid was not as great as represented, or that a less quantity than that charged had been
delivered. 3. That the answer might have shown that persons had an interest in the sale of the oats who are prohibited
by the contract from having any share in furnishing such
supplies.
Tone of the reasons assigned to support the exception are
entitled to any weight, when considered in connection with the
explanations given in the till of exceptions. Evidence of an
undisputed character had previously been introduced, showing
that the requisitions for such supplies were not in excess of the
quantity prescribed by law, and that the United States did not
purchase and pay for any greater quantity than that specified
in the requisitions, and that the purchases were made in, the
open market, and that the prices paid did not exceed the fair
market value of shpplies purchased.'
Litigants 6ught to prepare their cases for trial before the
jury is empanelled an'd sworn; ard, if they do not, they cannot
complain if the court excludes questions propounded merely to
ascertain the names of,persons whom they may desire to call as

Oct. 1876.]

STORI V. UNITED

STATES.

witnesses to disprove the case of the opposite party. Courts
usually allow questions to be put to a witness to affect his credibility; but it is plainly within the discretion of the presiding
judge to determine whether, in view of the evidence previously
introduced, and of the nature of the testimony given by the
witness in his examination in chief, it is fit and proper that
questions of the kind should be overruled, and to what extent
such a cross-examination shall be allowed. Sturgis v. Robbins,
62 Me. 293; -Prescottv. Ward, 10 Allen, 209; Wroe v. State,
20 Ohio St. 460; 1 Greenl. Evid. ยง 449.
Purchases to supply deficiency arising from the failure of the
contractors to perform their contract were required to be made
in open market, in order to ascertain the excess of cost, if any,
beyond the contract price; and the bill of exceptions shows
that the evidence to prove that the purchases made by the
United States ivere so made was undisputed and uncontradicted. Still, the defendants asked the witness called to prove
those facts whether he did not commute with some of the subordinate officers for a portion of the forage to which they were
entitled, instead of delivering the same to such subordinate
officers, to which no direct answer was given; but when the
witness was asked if he could state what quantity of such supplies were charged on his books as delivered, which was adjusted by commuting the same with the subordinate officers,
he answered that he could by looking at his books. Prior to
that, the witness had stated that the prices charged were regular market prices in gold coin, which is in strict conformity to
the terms of the agreement; but the defendants requested the
witness to examine his books, and to state what the amount
was which had been commuted; to which interrogatory the
plaintiffs objected, and the court excluded the question.
Interrogatories calling for immaterial testimony may be excluded in the discretion of the court, as shown by the authorities to which reference has previously been made. Doubt
upon that subject cannot be entertained, and it is equally certain that it is error to exclude a question, proper in form, which
calls for evidence material to the issue. Difficulty frequently
arises in determining whether a partic-alar question falls within
the one or 'the other of these categories; and in solving that

86

199 BARRELS OF WHISKEY v. UNITED STATS4.

[Sup. Ct.

doubt, it often becomes necessary, especially in an appellate
court, to ascertain what the state of the case was when the
question was propounded, and what the effect of the evidence
would have been if it had been admitted.
No attempt is made to impeach the fairness of the requisitions made by the quartermaster, or to show that they were
greater than the public service required; nor is it contended
that the prices paid to supply the deficiencies were higher than
the regular market prices in gold coin. What the defendants
suggest is, that the agent employed to provide and deliver the
deficiency paid some of the subordinate officers in money,
instead of delivering the required amount of forage and grain,
as he should have done. Both the agent and the subordinate
officers in question agreed to the commutation; nor is it suggested that the quartermaster approved the commutation, or
that he had any knowledge of the irregular transaction of the
agent. Proper charges were made by the agent, and the same
were duly paid by the proper disbursing officer.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, it is clear that no
injury resulted to the contractors. They did not suffer by the
irregularity, nor is it perceived that it is a matter with which
they have any concern, and it certainly furnishes no grounds
for reversing the judgment.
Judgment affirmed.

ONE

HUNDRED AND

Nr-TY-NDE BARRELs

or WHISKEY

v. UNITED STATES.
1. The forty-fifth section of the act of July 13, 1866 (14 Stat. 163), imposes upon
a claimant of distilled spirits, seized for a violation of that section, the burden of proving that the requirements of law have been complied with; and
this court, upon consideration of the evidence disclosed in the record, deems
it insufficient, and affirms the decree of condemnation.
2. The rule in The Diana,3 Wheat. 6,, allowing interest upon the appraised value
of the property from the date of the decree of condemnation in the District
Court, approved, and applied to this case.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Texas.
This was a libel against one hundred and ninety-nine barrels of

