Oct. 1876.]

L1PPINCOTr V. MITCHELL.

propert-y of great value. That it is so, is shown most clearly
by the conduct of the mining corporation in whose interest
this suit is brought, which, for the purpose of evading this
tax, permits its investment in this mine, said to be worth
from fiT to a hundred millions of dollars, to rest on this
claim, this mere possessory right, when it could, at a ridicu.
lously small sum compared to the value of the mine, obtain the
government's title to the entire land, soil, mineral, and all.
Those claims are the subject of bargain and sale, and constitute
very largely the wealth of the Pacific coast States. They are
property in the fullest sense cf the word, and their ownership,
transfer, and use are governed by a well-defined code or codes
of law, and are recognized by the States and the Federal government. This claim may be sold, transferred, mortgaged, and
inherited, without infringing the title of the United States.
Why may it not also be made subject to a lien for taxes, and
the claim, such as it is, recognized by statute, be sold to enforce the lien? We see nothing in principle or in any interest
which the United States has in the land to prevent it.
We are of opinion that the decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill of appellant on demurrer was right. It is,
Affirmed.
therefore,
MR. JusTicE F ELD took no part in the decision of this case.

LIPPINCoTT v. MITcB=.
A conveyance of lands in Alabama to a married woman, "to have and to hold
to the sole and proper use, benefit, and behoof of her, her heirs and assigns
for ever," vests in her, under the laws of that State, a statutory separate
estate; and a mortgage of the lands, executed by her and her husband to
secure the payment of his debts, is void.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Alabama.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
A.. J:Hubley Askton for the appellant.
Hr. Percy Walker for the appellee.

LIPPINcoTT V. MITCHELL.

[Sup. ot.

MR. JusTioE SwAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is brought here by appeal from the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Southern District of Alabama. It
depends for its determination upon a branch of the local law of
real property. The question involved relates to the separate
estates of married women. The facts are undisputed. The premises in question were conveyed to the appellee, Nannie C.
Mitchell, by deed duly executed, bearing date on the nineteenth
day of March, 1868.
On the 17th of February, 1869, Nannie C. Mitchell and J. C.
Mitchell, her husband, mortgaged the premises to the appellants, J. B. Lippincott & Company, to secure the payment of
certain liabilities therein depcribed. The instrument contained
a power of sale. The mortgagees advertised the property to be
sold pursuant to the power. She thereupon filed this bill to
enjoin the sale, upon the ground that under the law of Alabama
she was incompetent thus to incumber the property; and that
the mortgage was, therefore, void.
The Circuit Court decreed a perpetual injumction. The
mortgagees thereupon removed the case to this court by appeal.
The Code of Alabama, art. 8, sect. 2371, declares that " all
the property of the wife, held by her previous to the mafTiage,
or which she may become entitled to after the marriage in any
manner, is the separate property of the wife, and is not subject
to the payment of the debts of the husband."
Prior to the judgment of the Supreme Court of the State in
1869, in Molton v. iartin,48 Ala. 651, it was the settled law
in that State that there were two distinct kinds of separate
estates, - one designated equitable, and the other statutory.
With respect to the former, the rule was that it was wholly independent of the statute. It was as if the statute did not exist.
The rights of the husband were excluded, but the powers of the
wife might be defined and limited by the instrument conveying
it as was deemed proper by those concerned. If no limitation
was imposed, they were regulated by the general rules of equity
jurisprudence upon the subject. According to those rules, where
.there was no restriction, she was in effect afeme sole as to such
property. She could incumber or dispose of it at pleasure.
The income belonged to her, and she was not bound to contrib-

Oct. 1876.]

Ln'PrNcorr v. Mrc mL.

ute out of it any thing for the support or benefit of the husband's
family.
Church v. Jacques, 3 Johns. (N. Y.) Ch.77; Gun v.
Samuels, 33 Ala. 201; 2 Story's Eq., sects. 1392, 1393.
She stood, with respect to such property, in the same relation
to the husband as if it belonged to a stranger. She had, therefore, the same capacity as any other person who might be the
owner to mortgage it for his debts. The creation of such conventional estates was sustained, because there was nothing in
them contrary to law or public policy. The parties concerned
were, therefore, permitted to contract as they pleased.
But where no such separate estate existed with respect to
property owned by the wife at the time of the marriage, or acquired subsequently, the statute interposed and created a separate estate in her behalf, with such incidents and attributes as
the legislature saw fit to prescribe. Among these were the
right of the husband to control the property and receive the
income without accounting for it, and the liability of the estate
for articles of support and comfort procured for the use of the
family suitable to its condition in life, for -which' the husband
would have been liable according to the common law. If he
survived her, and she died intestate, he was entitled, as -distributee, to one-half of her personalty, and to the use and enjoyment of her real estate for life. If she survived him, the value
of her separate estate was deducted from her distributive share
of his personalty and her dower. But she could not mortgage
the estate for her husband's benefit, and such mortgages were of

no validity.
The judgment of the court in Molton v. Martin, supra, and
in Glen v. Glen, 47 Ala. 204, and in Dennihand v. Berry,
48 id. 591, the two latter following and controlled by the
former, abolished the distinction between the two classes of
separate estates, and brought all such equitable estates, except
where the legal title was vested in a trustee, within the
statute.
It followed as a' consequence that the wife could no more
mortgage an equitable than a statutory separate estate for the
husband's benefit, and that all such mortgages were void, by.
reason of her disability in both cases.
Such was the state of the law when the present case was
VOL. Iv..

49

LIPPINCOTT V. MITCHELL.

[Sup. Ct.

decided by the Circuit Court. The conclusion reachd was
inevitable, whether the separate estate of the wife belonged to
one class or the other, the question then being immaterial in
the jurisprudence of the State. The result, as to the point
under consideration, was necessarily the same in both cases.
The subject again came under the consideration of the
Supreme Court of the State in 1875, in Short v. Battle, 52 Ala.
456. It was ably and elaborately examined. The court unanimously overruled the cases of Molton v. Martin, Glen v. Glen,
and -Dennichandv. Berry. The pre-existing state of the law
was re-asserted and re-established. The statute was construed
as it was construed before Molton v. Martin and the subsequent
cases in harmony with that case were determined.
This construction is a rule of property of the State, and we
are as much bound by it as if it were a part of the statute.
It is our duty to apply the law of the State as if we were siting there as a local court, and this case were before us as such
a tribunal. Leftlngwell v. Warren, 2 Black, 5T9; Olcott v.
Byinum, 17 Wall. 44.
We are thus brought to the examination of the question
whether the estate to which this litigation relates belongs to
the equitable or to the statutory class. If to the latter, the
decree of the Circuit Court is correct; if to the former, it must
be reversed.
No particular words or phrases are necessary to create an
equitable separate estate. The court will examine the whole
instrument, and look rather to the intent manifested than to
the language employed. The creative intent must clearly
appear. Doubts are resolved in favor of the husband's marital
rights. Bish. Law of Married Women, sect. 824. In Short v.
Battle, supra, the Supreme Court of the State laid down this
rule: "Where the intent to exclude the marital rights of the
husband is doubtful or equivocal, or rests on speculation, the
statute intervenes, and fixes the character of the estate as
the separate statutory estate of the wife."
The deed here in question purports on its face to be executed by "Huriosco Austill, trustee for Mrs. Mary A. Ajarshall," recites that the sale and conveyance were made pursuant
to her written request, and then proceeds : -

Oct. 1376.]

LippiNcoTr V. MTCHELL.

"Now, know all nen by these presents, that I, Huriosco Austill,
as trustee, as aforesaid, for and in consideration of the sum of
4,600, lawful money of the United States, to me in hand paid by
Nannie C. Mitchell at and before the ensealing and delivery of
these presents, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, and
the said Nannie C. Mitchell, her heirs, executors, and administrators for ever, released and discharged from the same, have
granted, bargained, sold, aliened, remised, released, enfeoffed, conveyed, and confirmed, and by these presents do grant, bargain, sell,
alien, remise, release, enfeof, convey, and confirm, to the said
Nannie C. Mitchell, her heirs and assigns for ever, all and singular
that certain lot of land situate, lying, and being in the city of
Mobile, and described as follows, to wit:"Together with the tenements, hereditaments, rights, members,
privileges, and appurtenances unto the above-mentioned premises
belonging or in any way appertaining: to have and to hold the
above-granted and described premises with the appurtenances
unto the said Nannie C. Mitchell, her heirs and assigns, to the sole
and proper use, benefit, and behoof of the said Nannie C. Mitchell,
her heirs and assigns for ever."
If it were intended by this deed to give the wife a separate
estate, it is remarkable that in the mass of redundant verbiage
employed no words clearly apt for that purpose are to be
found. It is remarkable, if such an intent existed, that the
phrase, "for her separate use," or "for her exclusive use," or
"free from the control of her present or any future husband,"
or some equivalent for one of them, was not inserted. The omission can only be accounted for upon the hypothesis that the idea
of a separate estate was not in the mind of either of the parties,
and that hence no instruction upon the subject was given to
the draftsman of the deed. There is nothing in the record to
warrant the belief that the purchase and conveyance were not
intended to be such a transaction in the ordinary way, without
securing to the grantee any special rights touching the property, or any right other than that of the ownership in feesimhple.
The only part of the deed which gives a shadow of support
to the proposition of the appellants is the language of the
hahendum.

LIPPINCOTT V. MITCHELL.

[Sup. C

The same language is to be found in many precedents in
nooks of forms, where, certainly, there was no purpose to create
a separate estate. Thus, in Oliver on Conveyancing, an
American work, in the form of a deed by an administrator,
p. 290, the iabendum is, "To have and to hold the same to the
said J. C. and W. W., their heirs and assigns, to their sole use
and behoof for ever." So, in the form of a deed to a corporation, id. 279, " To have and to hold the same, with the appurtenances thereof, to the said corporation and their assigns, to
their sole use and behoof for ever." Instances to the same
effect in other like works might be largely multiplied.
Such was also the ancient English form of the habendum,
except that the term "only" was used instead of "sole."
In Lilly's Practical Conveyancer, published in 1719, in the
form of a release in fee, the habendum is, "To have and to hold
the said," &c., "to the only proper use and behoof of the said
C. C., his heirs and assigns for ever." And such is the modern
English form. Thus, in the form of a deed of feoffment, in
4 Blythewood, 130, the habendum is, "To have and to hold
the said close," &c., "to the only proper use of the said
[feoffee], his heirs and assigns for ever."
We have examined the cases upon the subject, referred to by
the learned counsel for the appellants, and many others, both
the English and American. Some of them go to a very extreme length in one direction, and some in the other. Not a
few of them are in irreconcilable conflict. To examine and
discuss them in detail would unnecessarily prolong this opinion,
and could serve no useful purpose. We therefore forbear to
remark further in regard to them.
Without the aid of the rule of doubt recognized by all the
authorities upon the subject, we have no difficulty in doming
to the conclusion that the deed of Austill cannot be held to
have vested in the grantee a separate estate, or any. other
estate than a fee-simple. When she executed the mortgage,
she had, therefore, a statutory separate estate. Hence the
mortgage was void.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUETTOE STRONG dissented.

