Oct. 18T6.]

i]ETNA LIFE INS. Co. v. FRANCE.

days, not expressed to be clear days, is presciribed by the rules
or practice of the courts, the same shall be reckoned exclusively of the first day and inclusively of the last day, unless
the last day shall happen to" be dies non in legal contemplation.
8 Bing. 307.
Repeated attempts have been made to settle the question,
but different rules still prevail in different jurisdictions.
Due weight in every case should be given to the words of
the phrase to be construed, and by so doing many of the reported
cases otherwise seemingly inconsistent may be satisfactorily
reconciled.. Still it must be admitted that it is difficult, if not
impossible, to deduce from the reported decisions any rule which
will apply in all cases, nor is it necessary to make the attempt
in this case, as the court is unanimously of the opinion that the
day the petition in bankruptcy was filed must be excluded in
making the computation, and that the decree of the Circuit
Decree affirmed.
Court is correct. Rev. Stat., sect. 5013.

BT2TA Lum IwsuRAwcE ComPAxy v. FRAC0.
1. The relationship between a party and another for whose benefit he effects an
insurance upon his life, if a good and valid consideration in law f6r any gift
or grant, furnishes no ground for the imputation that the transaction was
by way of cover for a wager policy.
2. A. policy of insurance, taken out by a man upon his life for the benefit of his
sister, who has no insurable interest in his life beyond that of relationship,
is not void; and it is immaterial what is the arrangement between them for
the payment of the premiums.
3. Where, as in this case, the policy makes the declaration, the questions set
forth in the proposal and the answers to them, a part of the contract, and
declares, that, if they are found in any respect to be false and fraudulent,
it shall be void, the cour below did not err in charging the jury, that,
where the answers were qualified by the statement of the applicant that
they were as nearly correct as he could remember, the right to recover
would not be defeated, unless the jury were satisfied that the answers, or
some of.them, were untrue in any respect materially affecting the risk, and
that the assured knew of their incorrectness. .

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the ourt.
:36
VOL. IV.

562

,

.,ETNA LIFE INS. Co. v. FRANCE.

[Sup. CL.

Mr.Samuel C. Perkins for the plaintiff in error.
Hr. Nathan H. Sharpless, contra.
MR.JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought by David France and Lucetta P.,
his wife, to recover the amount of a policy of insurance for
$10,000, issued by the Etna Life Insurance Company on the
life of Andrew J. Chew, of Philadelphia, dated Sept. 13, 1865,
and payable to the said Lucetta, who was Chew's sister.
The proposals for the insurance, made out upon one of the
printed blanks of the company, were signed by both Chew and
Mrs. France. The following is a copy of the introductory part
of the policy: "This policy of insurance witnesseth, that the iEtna Life Insurance Company, in consideration of the sum of $243.50, to them in
hand paid by Andrew J. Chew, for the benefit of Lucetta P. France,
his sister, and of the annual premium of $243.50, to be paid to said
company on or before the thirteenth day of September in every
year during the continuance of this policy, do assure the life of
Andrew J. Chew, of Philadelphia, in the county of Philadelphia,
State of Pennsylvania, in the amount of $10,000 for the term of his
life.
"And the said company do hereby promise and agree to and
with the said assured, her executors, administrators, and assigns, well
and truly to pay, or cause to be paid, the said sum insured to the
said assured, her executors, administrators, or assigns, within ninety
days after due notice and proof of the death of the said Andrew J.
Chew, and in either case all indebtedness of the party to the company shall be deducted from the sum insured. If any notes given
by the said Andrew J. Chew for any portion of the cash part of
premium on the within policy for anu current year shall mature and
not be paid, the policy shall become void from that- date, and all
payments of premium thereon forfeited to said company."
The policy, amongst other things, contained the following
stipulation: "And it is also understood and agreed to be the true intent and
meaning hereof, that if the proposal, answers, and declaration made
by the said Andrew J. Chew, and bearing date the thirteenth day
of September, 1865, and which are hereby made part and parcel of

Oct. 1876.]

-A£r LIFE INs. Co. v. FRANCE.

this policy as fully as if herein recited, and upon the faith of which
this agreement is made, shall be found in any respect false or fraudulent, then and in such case this policy shall be null and void."
The trial resulted in a verdict and judgment for the plaintiffs. The defendant sued out this writ of error.
Numerous exceptions were taken, on which errors are assigned here; but they are all reducible to two heads, or grounds
of defence, viz.: 1. Want of insurable interest in Lucetta P.
France; 2.Misrepresentation and breach of warranty as to the
age and health of said Chew. It is insisted that the rulings
and charge of the court below on these points were erroneous.
First,On the question whether Lucetta P. France had an
insurable interest in the life of Chew, the conceded facts are
that she was his sister, as stated in the policy; that, at the
time the policy was issued, she was married to the other plainliff, David France, and in no way dependent on her brother for
her support; that the latter was earning his living as a ladies'
shoemaker, and was of small means. Evidence was given tending to show that Mrs. France had, at different times, loaned
money to her brother to an amount of some $2,000, and lent
him $400 more in September, 1865; .that a previous policy of
like amount with the present had been obtained of the defendant company on Chew's life for his sister's benefit in June of
the same year, and that at the time of issuing the policy now in
suit he was unmarried, but was engaged to be married, and was
in fact married the next day. The policy, as well as the several
receipts for the annual premiums, signed by the secretary of the
company, and countersigned by its agent in Philadelphia, all
acknowledge that said premiums were received from Chew.
The construction given to the policy by the court below was,
that it was a contract between the company and Chew for an
assurance of his life, with a stipulation and agreement that the
money should be paid to his sister; ,and the court held .that
such a policy is sustainable at law on account of the nearness
of the relationship between the parties, and especially as Mrs.
France, at the time the insurance was effected, was one of
Chew's next of kin, prospectively interested in his estate as a
distributee. We concur in the construction of the policy made
by the court, and in the validity of the transaction. As held

ETNA

LIFE INS. Co. v. FRANCE.

[Sup. Ct.

by us in the case of the Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance ompany v. ehaefer, supra, p. 457, any person has a right to procure an insurance on his own life and to assign it to another,
provided it be not done by way of cover for a wager policy;
and where the relationship between the parties, as in this case,
is such as to constitute a good and valid consideration in law
for any gift or grant, the transaction is entirely free from such
imputation. The direction of payment in the policy itself is
equivalent to such an assignment.
The insurance company gave in evidence three promissory
notes given by Lucetta P. France herself for part of the last
three premiums paid on the policy, and requested the court to
charge, that if the jury believed that the premiums on the policy
were paid by Lucetta P. France, whether in cash or by her notes,
there was evidence from which they could find that the application for insurance was made and the policy in question taken
out by her for her own benefit; and, if such was the case, she
must show an insurable interest in the life of her brothei,
beyond that of mere relationship, before she could recover.
The court refused so to charge; and, we think, rightly. Waiving
the question, whether, merely as sister of Chew, Mlrs. France
could have effected in her own name an insurance on his life,
without its being obnoxious to the charge of a wager policy, the
evidence was incompetent to prove the fact sought to be proved
by it. The company, when taking the notes in question, ac-knowledged the premiums to havetbeefi received from Chew,
and was estopped from going behind its own adiniision, under
the circumstances of the case. The contract of insurance, as
corTectly construed by the court, was made with Chew; and
the relationship of the parties was such as to divest the assign
ment of tha policy or the direction of its payment to his sister
of all semblance of a wagering transaction. Under the circumstances, it matters not if the money or notes required for paying
the premium did come from Mrs. France; at most, it was by
way of advance on her brotlrer's accoumit, and on his contract,
He had a right to take out a policy on his own life for his sister's
benefit; and she had a right to advance him the ne.cessary means
to do so. As between strangers, or persons not thus nearly connected, such a transaction would be evidence to go to the jury,

Oct. 1876.]

' Z TNA LIFE INS.

Co. v.

FRANCE.

from which, according to the circumstances of the case, they
-might or might not infer that it was mere gambling. But as
between brother and sister, or other near xelations, desirous of
thus providing for each other, and, as said by Chief Justice
Shaw, presumed to be actuated by "considerations of strong
morals, and the force of natural affection between near kindred
operating often more efficaciously than those of positive law"
(Loomis v. .Eagle Life Ins. Co., 6 Gray, 399), the case is
divested of that gambling aspect which is presented where
there is nothing but a speculative interest in the death of an-'
other, without any interest in his life to counterbalance it.
On this ground we hold, that where, as in this case, a brother
takes out a policy on his own life for the benefit of his sister,
it is totally immaterial what arrangement they choose to make
between them about the payment of the premiums. The policy
is not a wager policy. It is divested of those dangerous tendencies which render such policies contrary to good morals.
And as the company gets a perfect quid pro .quo in the stipulated
premiums, it cannot justly refuse to pay the insurance when
incurred by the terms of the contract.
Second, The other exceptions relate to alleged misrepresentations by Chew in the proposal for insurance. The policy
makes the proposal and the answers to the questions therein
a part of the contract, and declares that if they shall be found
in any respect false or fraudulent, the policy itself shall be void.
Among the questions are the following, with -the answers given
.to each respectively: "' 4. Place and date of birth of the party whose life is to be
insured?' Ans. 'Born in New Jersey, in 1835.'
"' 5. Age and next birthday?' Ans. ' Thirty years, Oct. 28, as
near as I can recollect.'
,,111. Hat the party ever had any of the following diseases; if
so, how long, and to what extent: palsy, spitting of blood, consumption, asthma, bronchitis, diseases of the lungs,... rupture,
convulsions, &c.?' Ans. 'None.'
11 12. Is the party subject to habitual cough, dyspepsia, &c. V"
Arts. ' o.'
"' 13. Has the party had, during the last seven years, any severe
disease? If so, state the particulars, and the name of the attending
physician. Ans. ' No."'

ETNA LiFE INS. Co. v. FRANCE.

[Sup. Ct.

The answers were followed by this qualification: "The above
is as near correct as I remember."
The defendant offered evidence tending to show that Chew,
at the time of the application, would have been thirty-five or
thirty-seven years old at his next birthday, instead of thirty,
and that he was born Oct. 28, 1828; and that he had been
ruptured from infancy, and so continued up to the date of the
application, and wore a truss; and that he had had consumption, or some disease of the lungs; and that he was subject
to habitual -cough and dyspepsia; and had been attended by
physicians for severe disease within seven years; and that he
knew all of these matters at the' time of the application.
Counter evidence was given on the part of the plaintiffs.
Among the proofs of death was an affidavit of the widow of
Chew, stating that he was born Oct. 28, 1828, which defendant
relied on as to the -point of age. Mrs. France denied all
knowledge of the papers received by defendant as proof of loss,
except her own affidavit; and as to the alleged rupture, called,
amongst others, Dr. Lewis, as an expert, and proposed to him
the question, whether the existence of a reducible rupture in a
subject of life assurance in his opinion appreciably increased
the risk of the underwriters ? The question was objected to,
but allowed.
The defendant asked the court to charge, that if any of the
answers were untrue, in whole or in part, the verdict must
be for the defendant. The court charged that the truth or
falsehood of the answers materially affected the risk; but
added :"But the answers here are qualified by the words appended
at the foot of the application, ' the above is as near correct as I
remember,' which are applicable to all the statements made by the
assured. He must be understood, therefore, as stipulating only for
the integrity and approximate accuracy of his answers, and not for
their absolute verity. Without this qualification, substantial error
in aLny of his answers would avoid the policy, irrespective of his
motive, because he warranted their truth ; with it, the plaintiffs'
right to recover will not be defeated, unless it appears that some
one of the answers was consciously incorrect.
' To avoid the policy, then, the jury must be satisfied that the

Oct. 1876.]

.ETNA

LiFE

INs. Co. v. FRAcE.

answers, or some of them, were untrue in any respect materially
affecting the risk, and that the assured knew of their incorrectness."
And, in particular, as to Chew's representation of his age,
the court charged, "that if he knew, or had reason to believe,
that the year of his birth, as stated in the answer, did not
correctly indicate his age, the policy is void, and the plaintiffs
are not entitled to recover."
We think the qualification made by the court was entirely
justified by the form in which the answers were given. If the
company was not satisfied with the qualified answer of the
applicant, they should have rejected his application. Having
accepted it, they were bound by it.
As to the diseases inquired about, the court charged substantially to the same effect; namely, that the answers called for
were material, and if untrue, and Chew knew or had reason
to believe them so, the policy was void. As to the alleged
rupture, in particulhr, the court said:"If, however, it appears that the rupture had been completely
reduced, so that its effects had entirely passed away, and it had
ceased to affect his health or impair his capacity to take fatiguing
and prolonged exercise, the jury will determine whether the answer
is untrue as nearly as he could remember. On the other hand, if
the rupture bad not been cured, it is hardly presumable that he
could have forgotten it at the time of the application; and if the
jury so-find, it was his duty to disclose the fact that he had been
afflicted with this disease, and his negative answer will avoid the
policy."
And so of the rest. We think the charge was a fair one, and
gave the defendant the full benefit of any falsity contained in
the answers given by the applicant. Under the charge as
given, we do not see how the evidence of the physician, even if
irrelevant, could injure the defendant.
Other points were raised, but it is unnecessary to discuss
them. From a careful examination of the whole case, as presented, we are satisfied that there is no error in the record.
Xudgment affirmed.

