Oct. 1876.]

Ex PARTE SMITH.

nity to vindicate their rights. They might, if they had chosen,
have become parties defendant to. the cross-bills, and, if they
had, they could not have resisted the relief given by the court.
The appellants are, no doubt, unfortunate. It may be that they
purchased their bonds expecting that the Rock Island company
would protect them, either by taking a lease of the branch road,
or by holding the purchase-money of the bonds and expending
it for their security. But the expectation of a guaranty cannot
Decree affirmed.
be treated as a guaranty itself.

Ex PARTE SMITH.
There are no presumptions in favor of the jurisdiction of the courts ot the
United States; but the facts upon which it rests must, in some form, appear
in the record of all suits prosecuted before them.

PETITION for a mandamus to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Tennessee.
31r. S. P. Walker and 3r. Thomas 1. Sneed, for the petitioners.
MR. CHm JUSTICE WAITE. delivered the opinion of the
court.
The relators, citizens of the State of Tennessee, sued Lewis
Anderson, also a citizen of that State, Dec. 31, 1873, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District of
Tennessee, to recover possession of certain lands in that district
to which they claimed title in fee through a certificate of the
United States direct tax commissioners, under the "Act for
the collection of direct taxes in insurrectionary districts within
the United States, and for other purposes," approved June 7,
1862, 12 Stat. 422. The declaration is as follows "The plaintiff sues the defendant to recover the following tract
of land, lying in Shelby County, district No. -, and bounded as
follows: Lots Nos. two (2), three (3), four (4), and sixteen (16), Cannovan's subdivision, sixty by one hundred and sixty (60 by 160) feet,
of which the
assessed to W. H. Bowers in 1860, containing -,
plaintiff was possessed, claiming in fee, through a certificate of the
United States direct tax commissioners, Jno. B. Rodgers, E. P.

Ex PARTE SMITH.

[Slip. Ot.

Ferry, and Delino F. Smith, -,
under an act of Congress entitled an act for the collection of direct taxes in insurrectionary districts within the United States, and for other purposes, and the
acts amending the same, on the 1st of January, 1865; and after such
possession accrued, the defendant, on the first day of December,
1865, entered thereupon, and unlawfully withholds and detains the
same, together with $5,000 due for detention thereof."
Summons was .served April 24,1874, and, June 12, Anderson
moved to dismiss the suit for want of jurisdiction, as the parties
were all citizens of Tennessee. This motion was granted
March 1, 1877; and the value of the property in dispute being,
as is alleged, less than $5,000, Smith and Hurst now ask for a
mandamus requiring the Circuit Court to take jurisdiction, and
hear and determine the cause upon its merits.
Jurisdiction is claimed for the Circuit Court under sect. 2 of
"An Act further to provide for the collection of duties on
imports," approved March 2, 1838, 4 Stat. 632, which'provides
" that the jurisdiction of the circuit courts of the United States
shall extend to all cases, in law or equity, arising under the
revenue laws of the United States, for which other provisions
are not already made by law."
The facts upon which the jurisdiction of the courts of the
United States rests must, in some form, appear in the record of
all suits prosecuted before them. To this rule there are no
exceptions.
In this case, the jurisdiction is claimed on account of the subject-matter of the action, and not on account of the citizenship
of the parties. It was incumbent on the relators, therefore, to
show, in their pleadings or otherwise, that this action arose
under the revenue laws of the United States. This they failed
to do. They do show that they claimed title through such
laws, but not that their title in that respect is disputed. For
all that appears, Anderson may admit their title, and still contest their right to possession as against him. He may be their
tenant, or he may be their grantee. There are no presumptions
in favor of the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States.
The suit was therefore properly dismissed, and we cannot
compel the Circuit Court to take jurisdiction.
Petition dismissed.

