TiE

"MARGARET."[

TaEi "MA

R

LsuP. 00.

GA R ET."

1. A steam-tug which engages to tow a vessel into a port, although not a common
carrier nor an insurer, is hound to exercise reasonable skill and care in every
thing relating to the work untib it is accomplished, and she is liable for the
want of either to the extent of the damage sustained.
2. She is hound to know the channel of her home port, how to reach it, and
whether, in the state of the wind and water, it is safe and proper to attempt
to enter with a tow.
APPEAL

from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Eastern District of Michigan.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Hr. William P. Lynde for the appellant.
Mr. Alfred L. Cary, contra.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a cause in admiralty. The libel alleges that the tug
Margaret," in towing the brig "Mbchanic" into the port of
Racine, Wis., conducted the process so carelessly and unskilfully that the brig and cargo were sunk. This proceeding was
instituted to recover damages for the loss sustained by the
lil'ellants. A decree was rendered in their favor, from which
an appeal was taken to this court.
The entrance into the harbor is at the mouth of Root River.
It has been-improved by two piers. One of them is on the
north, and the other on the south side. They are parallel to
each other, and extend into the lake in a direction nearly due
east, the north one running out about three hundred and thirty
feet farther than the south one. The distance from the inside
of the outer end of the south pier directly across to the inside
of the north pier is two hundred and thirty-eight feet. At the
entrance of the harbor, and for some distance farther west than
the east end of the south pier, the channel ran- close along the
south side of the north pier. It was about seventy-five feet
wide. South of the channel, between it and the south pier,
and opposite to the end of that pier, there was a bar, with shoal
water upon it. Just inside of the north pier the depth of water
in the channel was fifteen and a half feet. From there to a
point a long distance within the piers it varied; but the depth
MR. JUSTICE SWAYNE

Oct, 1876.]

THE "MfRGAur."

495

was nowhere less than- thfiteen and a half feet. The depth
upon the bar before mentioned was nine and a half feet. The
brig at the time of the disaster drew ten feet.
The wind at the port was north-easterly, and was a light
breeze. At the mouth of the harbor ground-swells came in
from the lake. They were met by the undertow in the river.
This increased the commotion of the waters. The highest
swells broke over the end of the south pier, which was five feet
abovw the ordinary water-level. This height of the swells was
due to the shallowness of the water there. The harbor-master
says, in his testimony: "As near as I could judge, the swells
came up on the south pier. On the north pier they were not
near so high. The south pier is where the shoal water is."
Speaking of the channel hard by the north pier, he says: "I
should think there was about half the swell there that there
was on the south side of the harbor." Another witness says:
"I should say there was not over twenty inches rise and fall on
the mean level."
Such was the state of things to be enc6untered by the two
vessels in entering the harbor, when the easualty set forth in
the libel occurred.
On the 27th of November, 1869, the brig left the port of
Suai-nico with a cargo of lumber for the port of Racine. She
arrived off the latter poit about noon on the 80th of that
month, and at once signalled for the tug to come out and tow
her in. The tug obeyed the signal. When she reached the
brig, the latter was lying about a mile and a half north-east
from the mouth of the harbor. The tug approached the brig
on her starboard side. The captain of fhe brig inquired of the
captain of the tug whether there was "much swell on." The
latter answered, "1No." The captain of the brig said his vessel
drew ten feet of water. At the same time the linesman on thetug called.for a line, and it was handed to him over the starboard
bow. With reference to the wind where the vessels then were,
the captain of the brig says: "There was a kind of a dead
swell; there was no sea; there was very little wind." On
these points there is no controversy between the parties.
The line was attached to the starboard side of the brig. Sub.
sequently, another line was fastened to the port side, and both

TEE

"

MARGARET."*

[Sup. Or.

lines were so shortened as to bring the tug and the tow into
close proximity. There is an irreconcilable conflict in the testimony as to the time when the second line was applied, and
when the lines were shortened. The witnesses for the respondents insist that both occurred before the towing began. Those
for the libellants maintain that the second line was applied
later, and that the tug stopped, and the lines were shortened
when the tug was between two and three hundred feet from the
north pier. It is not easy to reconcile these discrepancies; and
we do not deem it very material to do so, by reason of facts
occurring subsequently, and which are in nearer relation to the
disaster.
The tug laid her course in a south-westerly direction towards
the end of the north pier. Upon reaching it she made a short
turn to the starboard around it and entered tbr harbor. The
brig followed. She had entirely lost her steerage-way, and ceased
to obey her helm. The tug had lost all control over her. She
sagged off towards the south pier, and grounded on a bar, which
she struck repeatedly with the rise and fall of the water. The
tug stopped and then resumed her traction. The port line broke.
Presently the starboard line broke also. The brig was thrown
by the force of the swell upon the end of the pier. A hole was
stove in her quarter. She was otherwise seriously damaged,
and sunk. It is not denied that, in the crisis, the tug did all
that could be done to6 relieve her from the perils of her situation. The effort was unavailing.
No serious attempt was made here to inculpate the brig. The
tug wvas the dominant mind and will in the adventure. It was
the duty of the brig to follow her guidance, to keep as far as
possible in her wake, and to conform to her directions. The
exercise of reasonable skill and care within this sphere was
incumbent on the tow. It d6es not appear that there was a
failure in any of these particulars.
If the port line was too weak, the tug should have called
attention to it. Silence was a fault. The learned circuit judge
found as a fact that the breaking of the line was not the cause,
but the consequence, of the grounding; and in this we concur
with him.
The tug was not a common carrier, and the law of that rela-

Oct. 1876.]

THE

,MARGARET."

tion has no application here. She was not an insurer. The
highest possible degree of skill and care were not required of
her. She was bound to bring to the performance of the duty
she assumed reasonable skill and care, and to exercise them in
every thing relating to the work until it was accomplished.
The want of either in such cases is a gross fault, and the offender
is liable to the extent of the full measure of the consequefices.
Brown v. Clegg, 63 Penn. St. 41 ; The Quckstep, 9 Wall. 665 ;
Wooden v. Austin, 51 Barb. 9; Wells v. Steam INavigation,
8 N. Y. 375 ; SteamerNew Philadelplia,1 Black, 62; The (Yayuga,
16 Wall. 177; James Gray v. John Frazier,21 How. 184.
The port of Racine was the home port of the tug. She was
bound to know the channel, how to reach it, and whether, in
the state of the wind and water, it was safe and proper to make
the attempt to come in with her tow. If it were not, she should
have advised waiting for; a more favorable condition of things.
She gave no note of warning. If what occurred was inevitable,
she should have forecasted it, and refused to proceed. The
spring-head of the disaster was the sudden turn of the tug
around the end of the pier, combined with the shortness of the
tow-lines. These involved the stopping of the tug and the loss
of the steerage-way of the brig. The drifting of the latter, her
impinging upon the pier, and her fracture and sinking, necessarily followed.
Conceding that the mode of entering the harbor by the tug
was the best under the circumstances, and the disaster thereafter inevitable, then the effort showed a clear want of judgment. As before remarked, she should have known this, and
governed herself accordingly. Her conduct, in this view,*was
more than an error. It was a fault; and upon this ground she
should be condemned.
But there is another view of. the case, more satisfactory to
our minds and more clearly conclusive against the tug.
She took charge of the brig a mile and a half from the
harbor. She had the whole surface of the lake for searoom. There was nothing in the way. The wind was light
and the sea was calm. She' could have made any curvature
necessary to put herself and the tow upon a 'right line to the
harbor. Her course could then have been laid accordingly,
VOL. IV.

82

SUPERVISORS V. KENNICOTT.

[Sup. Ct.

She could have entered just where she did enter. She could
have safely passed the swells she would have encountered.
Her experience aq she did enter proves this to have been so.
She would have avoided the shoal-water and bar south of the
channel where the swells were the highest. A single line
would have answered for the tow. It might have been of any
length deemed proper. The tow would have had ample steerage-way, and have obeyed her helm. She could have been kept
in the wake of the tug, and would have safely passed the groundswell, as did the tug. There being ample depth of water in the
chaninel, and being larger and heavier than the tug, she would
have encountered even less of difficulty and danger. The tug
need not have stopped a moment. There would have been no
tension and breaking of the lines by the grounding and jerkings
of the brig. The traction would have gone on in unbroken
continuity until the tow was so far within the harbor as to have
been out of peril. The expert testimony proves that this could
and should have been done. We find no sufficient answer to
this view either in the record or in the able and elaborate
argument submitted by the counsel for the appellants.
Upon this ground, also, 'wefind the"tug in fault.
Decree affirned.

SUPTERVISORS V. KE.NCOTT.
Whatever has been decided here upon one appeal cannot be re-examined in a subsequent appeal of the same suit. The subsequent appeal brings up only the
proceedings of the Circuit Court after the mandate of this court.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
Argued by M. A. L. XKnapp for the appellants. The court
declined to hear further argument.

MR. C ras' JUSTICE WAITTE delivered the opinion of the
court.
When this case was here on a former appeal, we decided that
the mortgage in controversy was valid in favor of bona fide
holders of the bonds it was given to secure, and that the com

