Oct. 1876.]

CONN.

MUT. LIFE INS. Co. v. SCHAEFER.

457

CoimECTIcUT MUTUAL Lm'E ISURA1WCE ComPANY v.
SHAEFER.
1. Within the scope of the professional employment of an attorney, the communications made to him by his client are privileged, and, without the consent
of the latter, he should neither be required nor permitted by the courts of
the United States to testify concerning them.

2. A policy of life insurance originally valid does not cease to be so by the cessation of the assured party's interest in the life insured, unless such be the
necessary effect of the provisions of the instrument itself. So held, where,
subsequently to effecting an insurance by husband and wife, upon their

joint lives, payable to the survivor on the death of either, they were
divorced a vinculo matrirnonii,and she, having thereafter paid the premiums

to the time of his death, brought suit on the policy.
8 Any person has a right to procure an insurance on his own life, and assign it

to another, provided it be not done by way of cover for a wager policy.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Ohio.
The facts are set forth in the opinion of the court.
Mr. .Edgar X. Johnson for the plaintiff in error.
ir. J. A Brannan, contra.
.. JUSTIn

BRADLEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action on a policy of life assurance issued July
25, 1868, on the joint lives of George F. and Franzisca Schaefer,
then husband and wife, payable to the survivor on the death of
either. In January, 1870, they were divorced, and alimony
was decreed and paid to the wife. There was never any issue
of the marriage. They both subsequently married again, after
which, in February, 1871, George F. Schaefer died. This
action was brought by Franzisca, the survivor.
On the trial of the cause, several exceptions were taken by
the defendant to the rulings and charge of the court, and this
writ of error is brought to reverse the judgment for alleged
error in said rulings and charge.
The first exception was for overruling certain testimony
offered.by the defendant. The plaintiff, having offered herself
as a witness, on her cross-examination admitted that she had
employed one Harris as her attorney to file her petition for
divorce; and being questioned whether she had not stated to

CONN. MUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. SCHAEFER.

[Sup.

Ct.

him, to be embodied in the petition, that Schaefer had been a
habitual drunkard for a period of more than three years prior
to the date of filing the petition, denied that she had so stated
to him. (Had such been the fact, it would have falsified the
statement made in the application for insurance.) The defendant called Harris, and asked him whether the plaintiff had not
so stated to him on that occasion. The question was objected
to and overruled, as calling for confidential communications
between attorney and client. The defendant alleges that herein the court erred, because, by the law of Ohio, such communications are not privileged. An examination of the Ohio
statutes renders it doubtful whether the law is as the defendant
contends. But if it were, the court did right to exclude the
testimony. The laws of the State are only to be regarded as
rules of decision in the courts of the United States where the
Constitution, treaties, or statutes of the United States have not
otherwise provided. When the latter speak, they are controlling; that is to say, on all subjects on which it is competent for them to speak. There can be no doubt that it is
competent for Congress to declare the rules of evidence which
shall prevail in the courts of the United States, not affecting
rights of property; and where Congress has declared the rule,
the State law is silent. Now, the competency of parties as witnesses in the Federal courts depends on the act of Congress in
that behalf, passed in 1864, amended in 1865, and codified in
the Revised Statutes, sect. 858. It is not derived from the
statute of Ohio, and is not subject to the conditions and qualifications imposed thereby. The only conditions and qualifications which Congress deemed necessary are expressed in the
act of Congress; and the admission in evidence of previous
communications to counsel is not one of them. And it is to be
hoped that it will not soon be made such. The protection of
confidential communications made to professional advisers is
dictated by a wise and liberal policy. If a person cannot consult his legal adviser without being liable to have the interview
made public the next day by an examination enforced by the
courts, the law would be little short of despotia. It would be
a prohibition upon professional advice and .assistance.
The other exceptions were to the -charge of the court, and

Oct. 1876.]

CONN. MIUT. LIFE INS. Co. v. SCHAEFR.

459

relate to two points: first, to the forbearance note given for a
portion of the last renewal premium; aild, secondly, to the
alleged failure of interest of the plaintiff in the policy, caused
by the divorce of the insured parties.
First, as to the forbearance note. Only one half of the annual premium was required to be paid in cash; the insured, if
they chose, could have a credit for the other half. This credit
was given upon the assured's signing an acknowledgment in
the following form: "I hereby acknowledge a credit or forbearance of

-

dollars of the premium on my policy No. -,

-which amount shall be a lien on said policy at six per cent per
annum until paid or adjusted by return of surplus premium."
It was not a note promising to pay money, but a form of acknowledgment by which the assured consented to a deduction
from the policy for non-payment of a portion of the premium.
As long as George F. Schaefer took any interest in the policy,
he signed this acknowledgment for himself and wife, "George
F. and Franz. Schaefer;" or for himself alone. One premium
became due after the divorce, and Franzisca Schaefer herself
attended to the payment of it, - paying the cash portion, and
authorizing her son by a former marriage to sign the forbearance note, as it is called. He did so in the name of both parties insured, thus: "Geo. F. & F. Schaefer." The company
accepted it. On what valid ground they can now object to
the transaction, it is difficult to see. A joint act was to be
done. Only one of the parties could physically do it. Either
had a right to do it. This act was, to pay or settle the annual
premium. The plaintiff, as one of the joint parties, performed
-what was necessary to be done. George F. Schaefer could not
complain; for it was done in his interest, keeping the policy
alive for his benefit as well as Franzisca's. The company
could not complain; for they accepted both the money and the
acknowledgment in the form in which they were given. There
is no pretence that any deception was practised upon them.
This point is really frivolous.
The other point, relating to the alleged cessation of insurable
interest by reason of the divorce of the parties, is entitled to
more serious consideration, although we have very little difficulty in disposing of it.

CONN. MUT. LIFE INS.

CO.

v. SCHAEFER.

[Sup. Ct.

It will be proper, in the first place, to ascertain what is an
insurable interest. It is generally agreed that mere wager policies - that is, policies in which the insured party has no interest
whatever in the matter insured, but only an interest in its loss
or destruction -are void, as against public policy. This was
the law of England prior to the Revolution of 1688. But after
that period, a course of decisions grew up sustaining wager policies. The legislature finally interposed, and prohibited such
insurance: first, with regard to marine risks, by statute of
19 Geo. II. c. 37; and next, with regard to lives, by the statute
of 14-Geo. III. c. 48. In this country, statutes to the same
Wffect have been passed in some of the States; but where they
have not been, in most cases either the English statutes have
been considered as operative, or the older common law has been
followed. But precisely what interest is necessary, in order to
take a policy out of the category of mere Wager, has been-the
subject of much discussion. In marine and fire insurance the
difficulty is not so great, because there insurance is considered as
strictly an indemnity. But in life insurance the loss can seldom
be measured by pecuniary values. Still, an interest of some sort
in the insured life must exist. A man cannot take out insuraice on the life of a total stranger, nor on that of one who is
not so connected with him as to make the continuance of the
life a matter of some real interest to him.
It is well settled that a man has an insurable interest in his
own life, and in that of his wife and children; a woman in the
life of her husband; and the creditor in the life of his debtor.
Indeed, it may be said generally that any reasonable expectation of pecuniary benefit or advantage from the continued life
of another creates an insurable interest in such life. And there
is no doubt that a man may effect an insurance on his own life
for the benefit of a relative or friend; or two or more persons,
on their joint lives, for the benefit of the survivor or survivors.
The old tontines were based substantially on this principle, and
their validity has never been called in question.
The essential thing is, that the policy shall be obtained in
good faith, and not for the purpose of speculating upon the hazard of a life in which the insure& has no interest. On this
point, the remarks of Chief Justice Shaw, in a case which arose

Oct. 1876.]

CONN. MUT. LIFE INS. 0. v. SOHAEFE.

461

in Connecticut (in which State the present policy originated),
seem to us characterized by great good sense. He says "In discussing the question in this Commonwealth (Massachusetts), we are to consider it solely as a question of common law,
unaffected by the statute of 14 Geo. III., passed about the time
of the commencement of the Revolution, and never adopted in this
State. All, therefore, which it seems necessary to show, in order to
take the case out of the objection of being a wager policy, is, that
the insured has some interest in the cestui que vie; that his temporal
affairs, his just hopes and well-grounded expectations of support, of
patronage, and advantage in life, will be impaired; so that the real
purpose is not a wager, but to secure such advantages, supposed to
depend on the life of another; such, we suppose, would be sufficient
to prevent it from being regarded as a mere wager. Whatever may
be the nature of such interest., and whatever the amount insured, it
can work no injury to the insurers, because the premium is proportioned to the amount; and whether the insurance be a large or small
amount, the premium is computed to be a precise equivalent for the
risk taken. We cannot doubt,' he continues, "that a parent has an
interest in the life of a child, and, vice versa, a child in the life of a
parent; not merely on the ground of a provision of law that parents
and grandparents are bound to support their lineal kindred when
they may stand in need of relief, but upon considerations of strong
morals, and the force of natural affection between near kindred,
operating often more efficaciously than those of positive law:'
Loomis v. Eagle Life Insurance Co., 6 Gray, 899.
We concur in these views, and deem it unnecessary to cite
further authorities, all those of importance being collected and
arranged in the recent treatises on the subject. See May on
Insurance, sects. 102-111; Bliss on Life Insurance, sects. 20-31.
The policy in question might, in our opinion, be sustained as
a joint insurance, without reference to any other interest, or to the
question whether the cessation of interest avoids a policy good
at its inception. We do not hesitate to say, however, that a
policy taken out in good faith, and valid at its inception, is not
avoidea by the cessation of the insurable interest, unless such
be the necessary effect of the provisions of the policy itself.
Of course, a colorable or merely temporary interest would present circumstances from which want of good faith and an intent
to evade the rule might be inferred. And in cases where the

CONN. MuT. LIFE INS. CO. v. SCHAEFER.

[Sup. Ct.

insurance is effected merely by way of indemnity, as where a
creditor insures the life of his debtor, for the purpose of securing his debt, the amount of insurable interest is the amount of
the debt.
But supp6sing a fair and proper insurable interest, of whatever kind, to exist at the time of taking out the policyj and
that it be taken out in good faith, the object and purpose of the
rule which condemns wager policies is sufficiently attained;
and there is then no good reason why the contract should not
be carried out according to its terms. This is more manifest
where the consideration is liquidated by a single premium paid
in advance, than where it is distributed in annual payments
-during the insured life. But, in any case, it would be very
difficult, after the policy had continued for any considerable
time, for the courts, without the aid of legislation, to attempt
an adjustment of equities arising from a cessation of interest in
the insured life. A right to receive the equitable value of the
policy would probably come as near to a proper adjustmrent as
any that could be devised. But if the parties themselves do
not provide for the contingency, the courts cannot do it for
them.
In England, by the operation of the statute of 14 Geo. III.,
as construed by the courts, the law has assumed a very definite
form. In a lucid judgment delivered by Baron Parke in the
Exchequer Chamber, in the case of--Dalby v. Life Insurance
Company, decided in 1854, 15.C. B. 365, it was held that the
true meaning of the statute is, that here must be an interest
at the time the insurance is effected, but that it need not continue until death; the words of the statute being, "that no
insurance shall be made on a life or lives wherein the assured
shall have no interest, or by way of gaming or wagering," and
- that in all cases where the insured hath interest in such life,
&c., no greater sum shall be recovered than the amount or
value of the interest." The word "hath" was construed as
necessarily referring to the time of effecting the insurance, and
not to the time of the death; that being the only construction
which would subserve the object of the statute to discourage
wagering, render the contract uniform and certain, and preserve
a 'fxed relation between the premiums and the amount insured,

Oct. 1876.]

HOWELL V. WESTERN

R.R.

Co.

as required by the principles of life assurance. This case overruled the previous case of aoodsall v. Boldero, 9 East, 72, decided by Lord Ellenborough, in which, proceeding upon the idea
that life insurance is a mere contract of indemnity, it was held
that the interest must continue until death, and even until the
bringing of the action. Baron Parke, in commenting upon this
case, very justly says: "TTpon considering this case, it is certain that Lord Ellenborough
decided it upon the assumption that a life policy was in its nature a
mere contract of indemnity, as policies on marine risks, and against
fire, undoubtedly are; and that the action was, in point of law,
founded on the supposed damnification, occasioned by the death of
the debtor, existing at the time of.the action brought; and his lordship relied upon the decision of Lord Mansfield in -Hamiltonv.
.endes, 2 Burr. 1270, that the plaintiff's demand was for an indemnity only. Lord Mansfield was speaking of a policy against marine
risks, which is, in its terms, a contract for indemnity only. But that
is not the nature of what is termed an assurance for life: it really is
what it is on the face of it, -a contract to pay a certain sum in the
event of death. It is valid at common law; and, if it is made by a
person having an interest in the duration of the life, it is not probibited by the statute."
As thus interpreted, we might almost regard the English
statute as declaratory of the original common law, and as indicating the proper rule to be observed in this country where that
law furnishes the only rule of decision.
Be this, however, as it may, in our judgment a life policy,
originally valid, does not cease to be so by the cessation of the
assured party's interest in the life insured.
Judgment affirmed.

HOWELL v. WESTERN RAILR0AD ComPANpiY.

1. Where a railroad company issues its bonds, and mortgages its property to secure the. payment of them and of the semiannual instalments of interest
thereon, as they respectively fall due, under the authority of an act of the
legislature, which declares that the bonds shall not mature at an earlier
period than thirty years, a provision in them, that, upon a failure to pay
any coupon thereto attached, when presented at the place of payment, and
a continued default thereon for six months, the whole sum mentioned in

the bond shall be-ome due and payable, is void.

