GUNN V. PLANT.

[Sup Ct.

The judgment must be reversed, and the cause remanded to
the Circuit Court with directions to enter judgment upon the
demurrer for the defendant below, unless the plaintiff below
shall withdraw his demurrer and proceed to trial, within such
time and upon such terms as the Circuit Court may direct;
So ordered.
and it is

G---

v. PLANT.

1. In Georgia, the omission to record the verdict upon which the judgment was
rendered does not deprive the plaintiff of his lien upon the real estate of
the defendant.
2. A judgment duly entered by a court having jurisdiction of the parties, and
of the subject-matter in controversy, is, notwithstanding irregularities in
matters of form, binding, until set aside or reversed.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Georgia.
This is a bill in equity, filed Jan. 12, 1872, by I. C. Plant &
Son, against Joseph E. Murray, trustee in bankruptcy of James
H. Woolfolk, bankrupt, and Daniel F. Gunn, guardian, to restrain Murray, the trustee, from applying money in his hands
arising from the sale of certain lands of the bankrupt to the
payment of a judgment in favor of Gunn, and asking that a
debt in their favor, secured by a mortgage upon the lands sold,
and for which they had obtained a decree of foreclosure and
sale at the October Term, 1869, of the Jones County Superior
Court, be paid in preference. The bill also asks, that, if the
judgment of Gunn is found to be valid, and a lien upon the
property superior to their mortgage, he may be compelled to
exhaust other lands bound for the payment of the judgment
before resorting to the fund.
The bill, after stating the mortgage to the complainants,
bearing date Dec. 7, 1868, and the sale-of the property by the
trustee, proceeds as follows: -

"And your orators state that the said Daniel F. Gunn, guardian,
claims that the moneys . . . should be applied toward the payment

of a judgment obtained by him at the November Term, 1866, of the

get. 1876.]

GumN v. PLANT.

Sbperior Court of Bibb County, in said State, for the principal sum
of $11,212.88, against Thomas J. Woolfolk and James H. Woolfolk,
as principals, and John W. Woolfolk, as surety. Your orators further
state that said judgment in favor of said Gunn, guardian, was entered on what purports to be a vei'dict rendered by a jury at the
term of the court at which said judgment was entered as aforesaid,
but which alleged verdict was not entered oii the minutes of that
court at the said term, as your orators are advised and-believe;
nor was the same entered on the minutes of the court at all until
the April Term, 1871, of said court, when it was ordered to be entered, nunc pro tune, on the minutes thereog to which order a bill
of exceptions was filed, and is n6w pending in the Supreme Court
of the State."
And among the interrogatories which the defendants were
required to answer was one as follows: "Whether the judgment of said Gunn, guardian as aforesaid,
was not entered on what purports to be a verdict which was not
entered on the minutes of the court until the April Term, 1871,
thereof, and whether a bill of exceptions is not now pending for
allowing it to be then entered on the minutes."
The answer of Gunn strafes that, "at the November Term,
1866, a verdict was regularly rendered, by a jury empanelled
and sworn in the case on the original declaration filed therein,
and signed by the foreman of the jury, in favor of said Gunn,
guardian, against said defendants -as aforesaid, for the sum
aforesaid, and which verdict was.regularly returned into court,
and. filed in the clerk's office at said term, and entered upon
the judge's docket, in the handwriting of the then presiding
judge, and, at the same term, a judgment was regularly
entered on said verdict; but, afterwards, by omission of
the clerk, respondent admits the same was not entered on the
minutes of the court, and respondent avers the validity of the
verdict was perfect; and respondent admits that, at a subsequent term, to wit, the April Term, 1871, said omission having
been discovered, the presiding judge, on motion, ordered said
verdict to be entered on the minutes nune pro tune, and which
was accordingly done."
And again, in answer to the interrogatory, he admitted that
the judgment" was entered on a verdict, which verdict was

[Sup. Cb.

GUNN v. PLANT.

not entered on the minutes of the court until the April Term,
1871, thereof."
Murray, in his answer, says the facts in relation to the judgment are correctly stated in the Dill.
The "transcript of the record from Bibb Superior Court"
shows a judgment at the November Term, 1866, as follows "Principal, $11,212 %; interest to
"Whereupon, it is considered by the court that the plaintiff do
recover of defendants, Thomas J. Woolfolk, James H. Woolfolk,
and John W. Woolfolk, the sum of eleven thousand two hundred
and twelve (11,212) dollars and thirty-eight cents, for principal
debt, and
dollars and
cents, for interest to
, and
the sum of
dollars and
cents, for costs in this behalf
expended, and the defendant be in mercy.
"Judgment signed this twenty-first day of November, 1866.
"N. H. BAss, Plaintiff's Attorney."
Upon this judgment an execution was issued, Nov. 28, 1866,
upon which are indorsed payments, Dec. 7, 1868, $600; Jan.
20, 1869, $2,200; Feb. 1, 1869, $2,400; Feb. 15, 1869, $1,500.
At the April Term, 1877, the following entries appear upon
the minutes

-

"DANIEL F. GuNx
Tos. X. WOOLFOLK, JAMES H. WOOLFOLE,
JOHN W. WVOOLFOLK, Security.

Complaint in Bibb Superior Court, May
Term, 1866, and verJ
dict
Nqivember
J Term,to1866.

"It appearing to the court that the plaintiff failed to enter his
judgment for the interest, as contemplated by the verdict, it is,
therefore, ordered, upon motion of plaintiff's counsel, that plaintiff
have leave to amend said judgment, so far as the interest is concerned, nune pro tunc.
" JEMISON & NISBET, Plaintiff's Attorneys."
"DANIEL F. Gu x
|

T.os. J. WooLFoL-,
JOSN. W.

JA-s

WOOLFOLK,

. WoOLFOLK,

Securit

Complaint in Bibb Superior Court, May

Term, 1866, and ver-

dict to November

I Term, 1866.
"It appearing to the court, from the entry upon the benchdocket, and from the original papers of file in the above-stated case,

Oct. 1876.]

GUNN V. PLANT.

that a verdict was rendered by the jury at the November Term,
1866, of this court, and that the blerk of this court failed to enter
said verdict upon the minutes of the court, upon motion of counselfor plaintiff, it is ordered that said verdict be entered nunc pro
"HUNTER, JEmsolx, & NISBET,

tunc.

"1Plaintiff's Attorneys."
May 1, 1871, the defendants in the judgment moved the
court to set aside the ft. fa., "and the judgment on which it
claims to be founded, because the same, or either of the same,
is not founded on any legal verdict, or other legal authority,
because said ft. fa. and judgment are without legal authority,
and cannot be found on the minutes of the cotdrt." In support
of this motion, they filed a paper, in which they stated "that
no verdict was ever rendered in the cause, and deny that the
entry on the declaration in said case of what purported to be a
verdict was in fact the verdict of any jury duly rendered in
said case." These objections were overruled, and the following entry then made on the minutes: "Whereupon, it is considered by the court that plaintiff do
recover of the defendants, T. J. Woolfolk, J. H. Woolfolk, and
5. W. Woolfolk, security, in addition to the sum of $11,212 principal, interest on said sum of $11,212.38, from the fourteenth day
of April, eighteen hundred and sixty (A.D. 1860), until paid. This
judgment for interest to take effect now for then.
"JEMSON & NISBET, Plaintiff's Attorneys."
After the filing of the bill in this case the Supreme Court,
March 12, 1872, entered the following judgment upon the bill
of exceptions:"THomAS J. WOOLFOLE et al., Plaintiffs in Error,
V).

DANIEL

F. GuT, Defendant in Error.

"This case came before the court upon R transcript of the record
from the Superior Court of Bibb County, and, after argument Mad,
it is considered and adjudged by tha.courtC that the judgment of
the court below be affirmed, provided that the defendant in error
shall, upon entering the remitter in his case upon the minutes of the
Superior Court, as the judgment thereof, file thereon an agreement
that nothing in the judgment allowing these amendments shall

(UNN

V. PLANT.

[Sup. Ct.

interfere with the rights of the security hereafter to plead any
release or discharge of himself which the law may impose, growing
out of any damages coming to him from the failure of the plaintiff
in the suit to have his verdict entered at the proper time."
Pursuant to this order, Gunn filed the required agreement,
and judgment was entered upon the minutes of the Superior
Court accordingly.
The Circuit Court having given a decree directing the payment of the.mortgage of Plant & Son, in preference to the
judgment in favor of Gunn, and ordering that the balance of
the fund in the hands of the trustee be distributed by the court
in bankruptcy according to the legal priorities of the creditors,
Gupn brought the case here by appeal.
1Vr. Thomas H. Norwood for the appellant.
Mr. Clifford Anderson, contra.
MR. CnIn_, JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The facts in this case, as they are presented to us by the
pleadings and proof, are as follows In the suit of Gunnv. Woolfolks, a verdict was rendered in
due form by a jury, but, through the omission of the clerk, it
was not spread upon the minutes of the court. Notwithstanding this, however, a judgment was regularly entered. That is
expressly stated in the bill, and shown by the transcript of the
record of the Superior Court. Such a judgment was also recognized by the court as actually existing in due form, when, at
the subsequent term, an entry of the verdict upon the minutes,
nunc pro tune, was allowed, and a judgment given for the interest. The statement in the answer of Gunn, that "at the same
term a judgment was regularly entered upon the verdict," but
admitting "that afterwards, by omission of the clerk, the same
was not entered on the minutes," while, taken by itself, perhaps
implying that the judgment was not entered, was evidently
intended to apply only to the verdict; for it is expressly
averred that the judgment was regularly entered upon the verdict, and that the only omission complained of was supplied by
the subsequent record of the verdict. This, too, is in accordance with the theory of the bill, which is, that, at the time the

Oct. 1876.]

GUNN V. PLANT.

mortgage was executed to the complainants, the judgment was
not a lien, for want of a verdict appearing on the minutes to
support it. The learned circuit judge, who decided the case
below, says in his opinion, that "the only evidence of any
verdict or judgment . . .is in the verdict of the jury indorsed
on the declaration, and a judgment for the principal sum due,
also written upon the back of the declaration by thee plaintiff's
attorney, and signed by him;" but there is no such evidence
before us. Here the record shows a judgment duly entered,
with nothing to indicate that it was only a "memorandum of
counsel." Our decision must be upon the case as it comes to
us, and not upon what it may have been below.
No question is raised as to the right of Gunn to assert his lien
for the interest on his debt, under the amendment to the judgment as entered in April, 1871, because the am6unt of money
in the hands of the trustee is not enough to discharge the balance of principal due. When the second entry was made, the
original judgment was not set aside, or amended even, but a
new judgment was entered for the interest.
Upon this state of facts, the question presented for our determination is, whether a judgment otherwise duly entered is void,
if the verdict on which it was rendered had not been recorded
in the minutes; for, if voidable only, it is good until reversed
by a direet proceeding for that purpose, and cannot be impeached collaterally.
It is very clear that a decision of a court is not technically a
judgment, until in some form it has been entered of record. If
entered in the course of judicial proceedings, of which the court
has jurisdiction, it is binding until reversed or set aside, no
matter how irregular it may be as to matters of form. Cooper
v. Reynolds, 10 Wall. 316. In this case a judgment was entered
in due form. As a judgment, it was complete: There had been
a verdict, and that appeared among the files in the cause. It
was within the power of the court, therefore, to enter the judgment. The only defect in the proceedirgs is an omission to
properly record the verdict. That seems to us an irregularity
only. The court had jurisdiction of the cause and of the parties, and in due course of proceeding had the power to enter the
judgment, and did so. This the record shows. A person inter-

GuNN v. PLANT.

[Sup. Ct.

ested in the question would, upon application at the clerk's
office, have found a judgment recorded in the proper place. In
the form it was entered, it was a lien upon the lands of the
defendant. This was the essential fact. It matters not that
the record also disclosed an irregularity, for which, unless it
could be cured, the judgment as recorded might, upon proper
applicationTbe set aside; for, until set aside, it continued in
force as a subsisting lien.
In this particular the case is different from that of Administrators of Liger v. Rogers, 12 Ga. 289. There the judgment as
entered did not create the lien. The amendment subsequently
made was necessary to give it that effect, and between the date
of the original entry and the amendment a purchaser without
notice had intervened. Here the lien is complete if the judgment stands. The only question is whether it can stand. The
amendment to the record is not to give the judgment additional
effect, but to sustain the effect it already has. Finding it recorded, a purchaser would be put upon inquiry for the verdict,
and such an inquiry would have discovered it on the files. True,
it should have been entered on the minutes. That was the duty
of the clerk, and, if he fails in this, " the court may at any time
have the misprision corrected." Pearce v. Bruce, 38 id. 451.
We think, too, the case is distinguishable from that of Lea v.
Yates, 40 id. 56. There, in a suit pending, - the counsel for
the defendant made the following confession, which was entered
on the minutes as made: ' We confess judgment to the plaintiff for the sum of -- ,with interest and costs, reserving the
right of appeal.'
Upon this confession, the counsel for the
plaintiff entered up judgment for 8224.58 principal, and $4.71
of interest." At a subsequent term of the court an order was
passed filling the blank in the confession to correspond with the
judgment; but in the mean time the judgment debtor had sold
the lands which were the subject-matter of the controversy, and
the question was, whether the lien of the judgment took effect
as against this purchaser at the date of the original entry, or
not until the *amendmentwas made. The court held that it
did not take effect until the amendment, and in the opinion
uses this language: " Till this amendment was made, we think
this judgment had no validity. It rested upon neither the ver-

Oct. 1876.]

GUNN v. PLANT.

diet of a jury nor a confession by the defendants for any thing
but costs of suit. The amount of principal for which it was
rendered had never been agreed upon by the parties; and, as
there was no definite sum of principal, there could be no calculation of interest." In that case there was no authority for the
judgment, and the record disclosed that fact. Here there was
in the files' of the cause the evidence of complete authority to
render the judgment for all that was given and more. There
is no necessity for supplying any defect in the authority as it
actually existed. All that is required is to correct a "misprision" of the clerk, and record the verdict as it appeared in the
files. It was in writing and signed by the foreman, in accordance with- the practice in Georgia. The subsequent entry of
the judgment is complete evidence of its acceptance by the
court. The case of .Dornick v. Beielenbaec, 10 S. & R. 90, is
not an authority against this position; for in Pennsylvania the
practice is, as appears in that case, not to take verdicts in
writing, but to receive them "from the lips of the foreman,
and record them in the usual way." In Georgia, however,they
are delivered in writing, and kept with the files. In this way
the evidence of what the verdict actually was can be preserved
without an entry on the minutes..
We think, therefore, that, upon the case as it is presented to
us, the court erred in deciding that the lien of the mortgage to
the complainants was superior to that of the judgment of Gunn.
In our opinion the judgment was valid, -ind a lien upon the
property from the time-ofits rendition at the November Term,
1866.
The Circuit Court did not pass upon the other branch of the
case; and, as the facts appearing in the record are not sufficient
to enable us to decree affirmative relief in this particular, the
decree of the Circuit Court will be reversed,, and the cause
remanded, with instructions to proceed in accordance with this
opinion, as equity and justice may seem to require; and it is
So ordered,

