Oct. 1876.]

UNITED STATES v. BOSTWICK.

UNITED STATES v. BOSTWICK.
1. In this case, no formal lease of the property was executed; but the court holds
that the correspondence under which the United States entered into occupancy constituted a contract of letting for one year, with a privilege of
three, at a rent of 500 per month, without restriction as to the use to which
the property might be put.
2. Unless excluded by the operation of some express covenant or agreement,
there results from the relation of landlord and tenant an implied obligation
on the part of the latter not to commit waste, nor, by his failure to exercise
reasonable care, permit it to be committed.
8. In the absence of an express covenant to repair, a tenant is not answerable
for accideiital damages, nor is he bound to rebuild, if buildings are accidentally destroyed by fire 6r otherwise.
4. The destruction of ornamental trees, fences, walls, &c., and the quarrying and
removal of stone and gravel, is voluntary waste, within the prohibition of
the implied agreement, for which the tenant is answerable.
5. In this case, the property having been rented by the United States "1for all purposes," no recovery can be had on account of its use for a small-pox hospital.
6. The obligations of the United States relate to the condition of the premises
at the time the term commenced. For damages done before that time by
the army engaged in the suppression of the rebellion, no action can be maintained in the Court of Claims.
7. The acceptance, without objection by the lessor, of reduced rates of rent after
the expiration of the first year is conclusive evidence of his assent, in consideration of the continued occupancy by the United States, to a modification of the original agreement in that particular.

APPE AL from the Court of Claims.

This was a suit by Thomas R. Lovett, trustee of Mrs. Louisa
Fletcher, against the United States, to recover the rent of and
for damages to certain real estate and premises situated in the
District of Columbia, and known as Kalorama.
The Court of Claims found the following facts :Thomas R. Lovett, as trustee of Mrs. Louisa Fletcher, was, on
the seventeenth day of August, 1861, seised in fee of said premises, containing about ninety-one acres, a dwelling-house with
wings, measuring in all one hundred and fifty by forty feet, a large
stable, and a frame building, with a garden, lawns, and walks,
a fence all around the premises, and a substantial wall, about a
quarter of a mile long, from Rock Creek to the lodge gate on
Boundary Street, and trees of various kinds, and shrubbery.
In consequence of application made to him for the lease of
the premises to the United States for a hospital, by General
Mansfield, Lovett authorized the following writings, marked
1 and 2:-

UNITED STATES v. BoSTICK,.

[Sup. C °

" No. 1.
"GENEAL, - Inclosed is a note of terms for the mansion and
lower grounds of Kalorama.

"The upper grounds contain about seventy acres, which may be
occupied by the quartermaster for horses and wagons, or whatever
else may be desired, at the rent of $100 per month.
"Respectfully,
" CARLES F. FLETCHER,
"For TnoMAs R. LOVETT, Trustee.
"To GENERAL MANSFIELD, B. G. &c."
"No. 2.
" KALORAMA,
"GENERAL

Aug. 17, 1861.

MANSFIELD:

" SIR. - I offer to the government, for the purposes of a hospital,
that part of the place known as Kalorama, comprising the house
and porter's lodge, together with about thirty acres of land immediately surrounding and including both sides of Rock Creek, bordering the same, upon the following terms: "The lease to be for the term of three years, with the privilege
to the government to renew the same for three years longer, at the
same rent, $450 per month.
"There will be left in the building a portable furnace and hallstove, for the use of the government. It will be stipulated that the
trees and shrubbery on the grounds shall be strictly protected, and
any unnecessary injury to the same to be compensated for by the
government; the buildings to be kept in repair by the government,
and to be left in as good repair as ordinary wear and tear will permit. The grounds having already been occupied by troops, and
the fence thereby destroyed, it is expected that the government
will renew them, and leave them in good repair at the expiration of
the term.
Very respectfully, yours, &c.,
" CHARLES

F.

"For THOMAS i.

FLETCHER,

LOVETT,

Trustee."

Thereafter General Mansfield issued and sent to Lovett the
following: "_EAD-QUARTERS,

DEPARTMENT

OF WASHINGTON,

17, 1861.
"As soon as vacated, within two weeks the United States will
hire the whole property of Thomas R. Lovett, trustee of Mr.
Charles F. Fletcher, &c., above , on the following terms, inclusive
" WASHINGTON, Aug.

Oct. 1876.]

UNITED STATFs v. BOSTWICK.

of his upper lot, and all his land and privileges, for $500 per month,
for the period of one, year, with the privilege of keeping it at least
three years, if desirable for all purposes.

"(MKWSFIELD, B. G., &2c.

Under the agreement above made the United States entered
upon and occupied the said premises specified in General
Mansfield's order, from Aug. 23, 1861, to Sept. 30, 1867,
inclusive.
For rent of said premises the United States paid to the said
Lovett $500 per month, frbm Aug. 23, 1861, to June 30, 1862;
and for each monthly payment the petitioner signed a receipt.
the form of which was as follows: " The 17nited States to Thomas B. Lovett, Trustee, Dr.
"1862. For rent of Kalorama, occupied as hospital, from
June I to June 30, 1862, at $500 per month . $500.00
"I certify that the -hove account is correct and just, that the
services were render~ed as stated, and that they were necessary for
the public service.
E. R CAmp, Captain,A. Q. M.
"Received at Washington, D. C., the 15th of July, 1862, of
Captain . E. Camp, Assistant Quartermnaster United States Army,
the sum of five hundred dollars and
cents, in full of the above
account.
TuomAs R. LOVETT, Trustee."
For rent of said premises the, United States paid to Lovett
$250 per month, from July 1, 1862, to Feb. 1, 1865; and for
each monthly payment he signed a receipt, in the following
form: " The 17niteod tates to Thomas B. LZovett, Trustee, -Dr.
"1862. For rent of Kalorama, occupied as a hospital
and camp-grounds, from July 1 to Sept. 30,
1862, at $250 per month . . .......
.

$750.00

"I certify that the above account is correct and just, that the
services were rendered as stated, and that they were necessary for
the public service.
E. E. CAMP, Captain, A. Q. AI.
"Received at Washington, D. C., the 9th of October, 1862, of
Qaptain E. E. Camp, Assistant .Quartermaster United States Army.

SC
[Sup.
Ct.

UNITED STATES V. BoSTICK.

the sum of seven hundred and fifty dollars '
above account.

cents, in full of the

THOMAS R. LOVETT, Trustee."

From the 1st of Febru.ary, 1865, to Sept. 30, 1867, inclusive,
the United States paid for rent of said premises $200 per
month; and for each payment received a receipt, in the form
annexed.
"1Te United States to Thomas B. Lovett, Trustee, Dr.
"1867.
"Sept. 30. For rent of Kalorama, as hospital and campground, from Sept. 1, 1867, to Sept. 30,
1867, one month ...
........
.

$200.00

"I certify that the above account is correct and just, that the
services were rendered as stated, and that they were necessary
for the public service.

A. P. BLUNT,
"Brevet-Colonel 4- A. Q. M., U. S. A.

"Received at Washington, D. C., the 30th of September, 1867, of
Brevet-Colonel A. P. Blunt, Assistant Quartermaster United States
Army, the sum of two hundred dollars and
cents, in full of the
above account.

THOMAs

R.

LOVETT,

rustee."

While the United States occupied the premises from Aug. 23,
1861, to Sept. 30, 1867, the main house was burned; the flowergarden and shrubbery were destroyed; three and one-half miles
of fence torn down; a brick wall fifty feet long, nine feet high,
and fourteen inches thick torn down, and the bricks used, partly
for pavement and partly for building a lime-house, where the
United States put clothes for purifying them. Some sheds were
torn down. The part of the house not burned, about fifty feet
long, was greatly damaged, and the glass, with the sashes, was
carried away. Ornamental and shade trees of various kinds
were cut down; a stone wall was taken down, and most of it
carried away; and stone quarried and gravel dug from a quarry
and a gravel-pit on the premises, and carried away. The premises were left in a dilapidated condition, and the house unfit
for occupancy. To restore the building and premises to their
condition when leased, reasonable wear and tear excepted, would
have cost $20,000.

Oct. 18T6.]

UNITED STATEs v. BosTwIcK.

The stone quarried and carried away by the United
States amounted to 2,327 perches, and was worth
.......
25 cents per perch ........
The gravel dug and carried away by the United
States amounted to 2,347 yards, and was worth
..........
.
21.u cents per yard ..
The stone wall taken down and carried away
amounted to 505 perches, and was worth $83.50
............
.
per perch .. .....

$581.75

509.20

1,767.00

The extent and valuation of the damage to the part of the
dwelling-house not burned, or to other buildings, the number
or the value of the trees cut down, the value of the brick wall
or fence destroyed, and the disposition of a fire-proof safe, boiler,
stove, and heater, were not shown.
Two regiments were, previous to said written contract, encamped by the United States on the northern part of said
premises; and thereon and during such occupation, previous to
said contract, about fifteen hundred trees were cut down and
a portion of the fencing destroyed by the soldiers of said
regiments.
All the injuries to said premises during the occupation thereof,
or of any part thereof, either previous to or during said written
contract, were done by the military f6rces of the United States
engaged in suppressing the rebellion, who were encamped on
the premises previous to said written contract, or who occupied
them under said contract.
The dwelling-house was used by the United States for a
small-pox hospital, and the ground as a camping-ground for
soldiers. Seven or eight soldiers who died were buried on the
p]ace; and since it was vacated by the United States, Sept. 30,
1867, it has not been rented.
At the time the dwelling-house was burred it was insured by
the Etna Insurance Company and the Iriremen's Insurance
Company, on two policies of $5,000 each Those companies
adopted as their highest rate of insurance on buildings.thr efourths of their cash value. The amount of the insurance,
$10,000, was paid to the petitioner for a total loss.
On the 21st of December, 1868, Lovett presented for pay.
ment to the United States the following account or bill -

58

UNITED STATES V. BOSTWICK.

[Sup. Ct.

The United States to Thomas .B.Lovett, Trustee, Dr.
1867.
Oct. 1.
A .A2.

To rent of Kalorama, from Aug. 28, 1861, to
Oct. 1, 1867, 73 months, 8 days, at $500 . $36,645.16
By cash on account ..
.........
.
19,295.16

Balance ...
...........
.
Damage to out-buildings .
.......
.
2.
Do.
stable . ....
.....
1 & 2.
Do.
lodge ...
..........
..
B. C. D. Value of stone taken from the quarry,
6,659 pr., at 25 cents ..........
...
B. C. D. Value of gravel taken from the pit, 2,347
yards, at 30 ..
...........
.
2. 4.
Trees destroyed ..
..........
.
Vo. 1.

B. D.

Stone wall taken, 505 perches, at $5

2 5 & 4 1,000 panels of fence ..
.........
Fire-proof safe ..
.........

.

....

.

.

...
60

Boiler ...
.........
Stove . ...
..
....
Heater . . . . . . ......

30
33
95

17,350.00
3,300.00
200.00

200.00
1,664.75
704.10
800.00
2,525.00

1,000.00

218.00

$27,861.85
E.& O. E.
JOHiN D.

McPHERSoN, Attorney, &-c.

DEc.9, 1868.

On Feb. 8, 1870, the following notice was sent to Lovett:

-

"WWAR DEPARTMENT,
QUARTERMASTER-GENERAL'S

"WASHINGTON,

OFFICE,

D. C., Feb. 8, 1870.

"THOMAS R. LOVETT, Esq., Washington, D. C.:
"SIR : You are respectfully informed that your claim as trustee,
&c., of the premises known as I Kalorama,' in this District, has this
day been referred to the third auditor of the treasury for the payment of $21.040.42.
"Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
"By order Acting Quartermaster-General,
"JAMES A. EKiN,
"Deputy Quartermaster-General,
"Brevet Brigadier-GeneralU. 65.A.

120-103 Claims."

Oct. 1876.]

59

UNITED STATES V. BoSTWCK.

The facts following were requested by the petitioner.
In October, 1867, the claimant made out and presented to
the Secretary of War the following claim: United States to Thomas R. Lovett, Trustee, -Dr.
1867.
Oct. 1.

To whole amount of rent according to contract, from Aug. 22, 1861, to Oct. 1, 1867,
73 months, 8 days, at $500 per month . . $36,645.16
Less amount received, from Aug. 23,
1861, to July 1, 1862, at $500
$5,145.16
........
.
per month ..
From July 1, 1862, to Jan. 31,
7,750.00
1865, at $250 per month . . .
From Jan. 31, 1865, to Oct. 1,
...
6,400.00
1867, at $200 ........
19,295.16
$17,350.00
...
...........
Balance ...
To estimated cost of rebuilding burnt
.$16,300
......
portion of mansion ..
. 10,000
........
Less insurance ..
6,300.00
To estimated damage to outbuildings and
.
wing, independently of fire .......
..
To damage to stable . ........
.........
To damage to lodge
To value of stone taken from quarry (2,327
...
. .........
perches) ......
To value of gravel taken from pit (2,777
.
.............
yards) ...
To damage to hill in consequence of digging
.
..............
gravel ....
...........
To trees destroyed ..
To cost for replacing stone wall on Boundary
........
..
Street (420 perches) ...
.......

To 1,000 panels rail-fence
To copper boiler

.

To hall-stove ..

............

To portable heater .

.
.

.

.

........

.

581.75
833.00
500.00
800.00
1,310.00
1,000.00

69.00

...........

To f re-proof safe ....

3,300.00
200.00
100.00

.

.

.

..

30.00

...

33.00
95.00

$32,493.25

UNITED STATES v. BOSTWICK.

[Sup. ot.

Which was by the Secretary indorsed'as follows: (Indorsed:) "28-1-'70. Rg Kalorama. Referred to the Quar.
termaster-General for investigation and report.
"EDwLN M. STmNToN, eretary of War.
"FB. 12, 1868."
On this claim the Quartermaster-General reports as follows : "QUARTEIMASTER-GENEXRAL'S
OFFIcE,
" WASHINGToN, D. 0., Nov. 11, 1869.
"Hon. WmLIAm W. BELKNAP,
"Secretary of War, Washington, D. C.:

"Sin, - I have the honor to return the enclosed claim of Thomas
R. Lovett, trustee, &c., for rent and repair of premises known as
'Kalorama,' in this city, and for gravel, stone, &c., stated at
$32,493.25, referred to this office from the War Department for
further report, in connection with the additional evidence presented, and to invite your attention to the full abstract of the case
herein.
"I consider the order of General Mansfield taking possession,
and directing a monthly payment of $500, and the fact of the
claimant receiving and receipting for this amount, sufficient evidence of a contract or lease, and therefore recommend that rent
be paid from Aug. 23, 1861, to Oct, 1, 1867, 73 months, 8 days, at
$500 per month, amounting to $36,633.38, subject to the deduction
of all sums which were paid the claimant for the use of the premises
during United States occupancy.
"It is evident from the abstract that injustice was done the
claimant in the previous recommendation of Acting Quartermaster-General Rucker, as to the allowance for gravel taken and
used.
"I recommend that Mr. Lovett be paid for 2,777 yards (60,250
bushels) of gravel, at the same rate as that allowed by the War
Department in the 'Dennison' case, viz., one (1) cent per bushel,
amounting to $602.50.
"So much of General Rucker's recommendation as is for repairs,
$2,300, and for 2,327 perches of stone, at 25 cents per perch,
amounting to $581.75, I recommend to be adhered to.
"Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
" J. C. McFERRAW,
"Deputg Quartermaster- General,
"Acting Quartermaster- General.

Oct. 1876.]

UNITED STATES v. BosTWmcK.

This report being examined by an officer of the War Department, he made a report to the Secretary, concluding with
the following recommendation :"As to the items mentioned in Mr. Lovett's proposition as being
in the house, a fire-proof safe, copper boiler, hall-stove, &c., and for
which an aggregate charge of $218 is made, Messrs. Allen and
Yeatman say that they are unable to determine whether the
responsibility for these rests with the Quartermaster's or Medical
Department, and the Quartermaster-General does not ask authority
to pay them. It is considered, however, that, the responsibility of
the Medical Department being a matter of doubt, they should be
paid for by the same Department as the rest.
"It is recommended, therefore, that the Acting QuartermasterGeneral be directed to make the payments recommended in his
letter of Nov. 11, 1869, and to pay, in addition, the sum of $218
for the items last referred to."
Upon which the Secretary of War indorsed as follows : "Approved :

"WLiAE W. BELKNAP,
Secretary of Tar."

Whereupon the Quartermaster-General wrote to Lovett as

follows : "1WAn DEPARTMKENiT,
"QARTEIRMATEn-GENERA12S

" WASHrNGTON, D.

OFFICE,

0., Feb. 8, 1870.

"TnouAs L. LOVETT, Esq., Washington, D. 0.:
" Sin, -You are informed that your claim as trustee, &c., of the
premises know as ' Kalorama,' in this District, has this day been referred to the Third Auditor of the Treasury for the payment of
$21,080.42.
"Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
"By order of the Acting Quartermaster-General,
"JAMES A. EKIN,
"Deputy Quarterinaster-General,

"Brevet Brigadier-General, . S. A.

"Allowed on request of Lovett.

-

E. G. L."

The accounting officers of the Treasury disa;pproved of the
recommendation of the War Department, and rejected the claim,
except as to the sum of $5,159.99, of which action the claimant was duly advised.
The following letter was received by the QuartermasterGeneral:

-

[
[Sup.
Ct.

UNITED STATES V. BOsTWICK.

"WASHINGTON, Jan. 81, 1868.
"To Brig.-Gen. RucKER, A. Q. M. G., Washington, D. C.:
" GENERAL, - In reference to the accompanying account, I would
respectfully state that the place known as ' Kalorama,' lately occupied by the. government (a plat of which accompanies this communication), comprises about ninety acres of land. It was hired
on the seventeenth day of August, 1861, by Brigadier-General ManFfield, on the part of the government, as a hospital and camp-grounds,
by written contract, at a monthly rent of $500, of which contract
the following is a copy "'HEAD-QUARTERS,

DEP'T OF WASHINGTON,

"WASHINGTo N, Aug. 17, 1861.

"'As soon as vacated, within two weeks the United States will
hire the whole property of Thomas R. Lovett, trustee of Mr. Charles
F. Fletcher, &c., above, on the followiug terms, inclusive of his
upper lot and all the land and privileges, for 8500 per month, for
the period of one year, with the privilege of keeping it at least
three years, if desirable for all purposes.
General, dc.:
"'MANSFIELD, .Brigadier"Possession of the premises was given on the twenty-third day
of August, and, on the tenth day of October following, the contract
was filed in the office of Captain E. E. Camp, A. Q. M., and by him
entered on the roll by order of Brigadier-General Van Vliet.
"I am, respectfully,

"€THOMAS

R.

LO-VETT,

"Trustee, 4-c., Mount Airy, Philadelphia, Pa."

As conclusions of law, the court found, That the letter of Charles Fletcher, for Thomas R. Lovett,
trustee, dated Aug. 17, 1861, addressed to General Mlansfield,
as qualified by General Mansfield's reply, dated Aug. 17, 1861,
and with that made a contract of lease subsequently acted on
by the parties, by the terms of which the United States were
bound to repair the premises in case of their damage by fire,
and to release them in as good repair as ordinary wear and tear
would permit.
That under said contract and under the tenancy between
the parties the United States were liable for injuries to the
premises, in the nature of waste.
That the claimant is not entitled to damages for the use of
the premises as a small-pox hospital by the United States.

Oct. 1876.]

UNITED STATES V. BOSTWICK.

That the claimant is barred of all claims for reductions of
rent by his receipts in full given for such rents.
That the United States were not entitled to be credited with
$10,000 paid to the claimant by insurance companies on
policies of assurance obtained and paid for by him for his
benefit.
That the report of the officers of the Quartermaster's De
partment, that $21,040.42 were due to the claimant, approved
by the Secretary of War, and ratified by the War Department
to the claimant, was not binding and conclusive on the United
States.
That the claims of the petiti6ner for loss by fire and dam
age by acts of waste were not barred by the Statute of, Limi
tations.
There was a judgment of $20,000 in favor of the claimant;
from -which both parties appealed to this court.
Lovett having died pending the suit, Criarlotte Bostwick,
his administratrix, was substituted in his stead.
fr. Assistant Attorney-General Smith, for the United States.
The contract under which the United States entered into
the occupancy of the premises was completed by the verbal or
implied assent of Lovett to the proposition, contained in General Mansfield's letter of Aug. 17, 1861. Lovett's letter of
that date was a mere offer, not assented to, and constitutes
no contract; for there must be not only a proposal, but
an acceptance thereof. 1 Story Contr., sect. 490; Hazard v.
N. -9. Ins. Co., I Sumn. 225; Andrews v. Garrett, 6 0. B
w. s. 269; Tuttle v. Love, 7 Johns. 471.
Where a proposition is made, with certain conditions or limitations, the acceptance must correspond to it in terms;
otherwise, it is a new proposition, ,requiring the subsequent
assent of the other party to render it binding. 1 Story, Contr.,
sect. 503; Slaymaker v. Irwin, 4 Whart. 369; Honeyman v.
1Dfarryatt, 6 Ho. of L. Cas. 112.
Lovett, in his letter of Jan. 31, 1868, to General Rucker,
expressly.declares General Mansfield's letter of Aug. 17, 1861,
to be the contract under which the premises were occupied.
General Mansfield's letter was not a lease, but a mere proposition to occupy, which, when accepted, constituted a verbal

UNITED

STATES

v.

BoSTwIcK.

[Sup. Ct.

letting, and, under the first section of the Statute of Frauds, a
tenancy at will.
There was no liability to rebuild in case-of fire. Taylor's
Land. & Ten., sects. 101, 146 ; Leachv. Thomas, 7 Car. & P. 327 ;
Horsefall v. Mather, Holt, 7; Brown v. Crump, 1 Marsh. 567;
Rookc v. Worth., 1 Ves. Sen. 462; Wainscott v. Silvers, 13 Ind.
497; Warner v. "Hitchins,5 Barb. 666.
The claimant is bound by his assent to the reduction of the
rent, especially as the government continued in optional occuUnited States v.
pancy, upon the faith of his acquiescence.
Clyde, 13 Wall. 35.
As the government was not liable to rebuild, it was not
liable to make repairs.
General Mansfield's proposition was to take the property
"for all purposes," - a term broad enough to include a small-pox
hospital, or any other use to which the government might see
fit to put it.
Mr. J D. McPherson, for Bostwick.
The' court below did not err in taking the whole correspondence to constitute the contract. Addison, Contr., c. 1,
sect. 2, p. 41.
If one enter under an agreement for a lease, and pay rent,
the relation of landlord and tenant arises, and the tenant holds
under the terms of the agreement, as if embodied in a lease.
1 Platt on Leases, c. 4, sect. 4, pp. 611, 612.
The mere fact that the defendant, modifying certain ternis,
restates them, does not exclude others not modified or restated.
Out of the relation of landlord and tenant there arises on
the part of the tenant an implied contract to use the leased
premises in a tenant-likd manner. White v. Nicholson, 4 Man.
& Gr. 95; 43 E. C. L. 58; Nave v. Berry et al., 22 Ala. 382;
Addison, Contr., sect. 711.
A general covenant to repair is binding on the tenant, whatever may be the cause of dilapidation. 2 Platt on Leases, p.
186; Bullock v. Demmet, 6 T. R. 650; Buclcworth Canal Co. v.
Pritchard,id. 750; Philipsv.Stevens, 16 Mass. 245; 3 Pars.
Contr., c. 3, p. 503; Taylor's Land. & Ten., sect. 343; Addison,
Contr., sect. 711.

Oct. 1876.]

UNITD STATES v. BoSTWICK.

WArR delivered the opinion of the
court.
In'the determination of this cause, it is necessary at the outset to ascertain definitely the terms of the contract under which
the United States occupied the property of the petitioner. On
the one hand, it is claimed that the proposition of Mr. Lovett
was accepted by General Mansfield with modifications, and that
all the stipulations suggested by him are included in the contract as finally entered into, unless modified or rejected in terms
by the note of General Mansfield. On the other hand, it is
contended by the United States that the note of General Mansfield, instead of being an acceptance of the proposition, was
a rejection of it, with an offer of new terms, which, when acceded to by Mr. Lovet, embraced all there was of the contract
as made. The latter, we think, is the true construction of the
correspondence. We know that, when a contract is entered
into by correspondence, the whole correspondence must be considered in determining what the parties have agreed to; but we
also know that both parties must assent to a proposed agreement before either is bound by it. Here General Mansfield
has nowhere indicated a willingness to accept any of the terms
offered him, but, rejecting all, has made a new offer of his own.
No reference whatever is made by him to any of the special
stipulations suggested by Mr. Lovett. All these are laid aside,
and he states the terms upon which the United States will hire
the property. The words "as above," where they ,ccur in his
note, are used to designate the property, not to extend the offer.
In short, Mr. Lovett proposed his terms, and General Mansfield
his. Mansfield's were accepted, but Lovett's were not.
This being the case, the contract is one by which Mr. Lovett
agreed to let, and the United States to hire, the premises described for the term of one year, vith the privilege of three, at
a rent of $500 a month, and without restriction as to the use
to which the property might be put. The United States agree
to nothing in express. terms, except to pay rent and hold for
one year..
, But in every lease there is, unless excluded by the operation
of somd express covenant or agreement, an implied obligation
on the part of the lessee to so use the property as not unneces.
MR. CHmEF JUSTICE

VOL. IV.

5

UNITED STATES v. BOSTWICK.

PUP. t

sarily to injure it, or, as it is stated by Mr. Comyn, "to treat the
premises demised in such manner that no injury be done to the
inheritance, but that the estate may revert to the lessor undeteriorated by the wilful or negligent conduct of the lessee."
Com. Land. & Ten. 188. This implied obligation is part of the
contract itself, as much so as if incorporated into it by express
language. It results from the relation of landlord and tenant
between the parties which the contract creates. Eoiford v.
-Dunnett, 7 M. & W. 852. It is not a covenant to repair generally, but to so use the property as to avoid the necessity for
repairs, as far as possible. fforsefall v. Mather, 7 Holt, 9;
Brown v. Crump, 1 Marsh. 569.
There are in this contract no stipulations to take the place
of or in any manner restrict this implied obligation on the part
of the United States growing out of their relation to the petitioner as his lessees. They had the free and unrestricted right
to use the property for any and all purposes, but were bound to
so conduct themselves in such use as not to cause unnecessary
injury. Whatever damages would necessarily result from a
use for the same purpose by a good tenant must fall upon the
lessor. All that the relation of landlord and tenant implies in
this particular is, that the tenant, while using the property, will
exercise reasonable care to prevent damage to the inheritance.
His obligation rests upon the maxim sic utere tuo ut alienum
non ldas If he fails in this, he violates his contract, and
must respond accordingly.
The United States, when they contract with their cititens, are
controlled by the same laws that govern the citizen in that behalf. All obligations which would be implied against citizens
under the same circumstances will be implied against them.
No lease in form was ever executed in this case; but the contract, followed by the delivery of possession and occupation
under it, is equivalent for the purposes of this action to a lease
duly executed, containing all the stipulations agreed upon.
Such being the agreement of the parties, it remains only to
consider the questions arising under it, as they appear in the
record.
1. As to the rent. The United States hired for a year absolutely, at the agreed rent of $500 a month, and occupied during

Oct. 1876.]

UNITED STATES V. BOSTWICK.

the whole of that term. They therefore, by their agreement,
were expressly bound to pay rent at that rate for the whole of
the year. This they have paid ii full to June 30; but after
that, until the end of the year, Aug. 23, 1862, their payments
have been only at the rate of $250 a month. Payment by a
debtor of a part of his debt is not a satisfaction of the whole,
except it be made and accepted upon some new consideration.
It is not found that there was any new consideration in this
case. All that appears is, that an accoiint was made out for
the rent from July 1 to Sept. 30, at the new rate, and that
ihis account was receipted by Mr. Lovett after payment.
Upon this finding, therefore, in the absence of any thing more,
showing that the reduction in the rent of the first year was
part of the agreement to continue the lease beyond the year
upon new terms, the petitioner will be entitled to judgment for
rent at the rate of $250 a month, from June 30 to Aug. 23,
1862, that being the balance remaining after deducting payments made.
After the end of the first year the case is different. The
United States were not bound absolutely to keep the premises
for a longer term than one year. After that, they could make
new terms, or leave. The acceptance by Mr. Lovett of the
reduced rates from that time, without objection, is conclusive
evidence of his assent to a modification of the original agreemen t in this particular, in consideration of the continued
occupancy by the United States. Having thus secured the
occupancy, he cannot now object to the agreement under which
it was obtained.
2. As to the use for a small-pox hospital. Mr. Lovett originally offered the property to the government 11for the purposes of-a hospital;" and all the receipts for the rent expressly
state that the property was being so occupied. No objection to
such an occupaqncy was ever made; and, if there were nothing
more, the presumption would be that the lessor expected the
property was to be used for any and all hospital purposes that
the necessities of the government for the time being might require. But the note of General Mansfield is broad enough to
cover such an occupancy, for he expressly states that the hiring
is to be "for all purposes." No recovery can be had upon this
specification of claim.

UNITED STATES

v.

BOSTWICK.

[Slip. Ct.

3. As to the destruction of a part of the buildings by fire.
There was, as has been seen, no express' agreement to repair in
the lease. The implied obligation is not to repair generally,
but to so use the property as to make repairs unnecessary, as
far as possible. It is in effect a covenant against voluntary
waste, and nothing more. It has never been so construed as to
make a tenant answerable for accidental damages, or to bind
him to rebuild, if the buildings are burned down or otherwise
destroyed by accident. In this case it has not been found,
neither is it claimed in the petition, that these premises were
burned through the neglect of the United States. No judgment can, therefore, be rendered against the United States on
this account.
4. The destruction of the trees and fences, and the digging
and carrying away of gravel and stone. Whatever injury was
done to the property during the occupation previous to the
agreement for the lease cannot be recovered for in this action.
Mr. Lovett's proposition included an undertaking on the part
of the United States to make good this loss; but his proposition
was not accepted, and the case stands as if it had never been
made. The obligations of the United States under the lease, as
to the preservation of the property, relate only to the condition
of the premises as it was when the term commenced. All damage done before that is clearly "damages . . . by the army
and navy . . .engaged in the suppression of the rebellion,"
and on that account not recoverable in the Court of Claims.
13 Stat. 381. But damage after the lease commenced, and
while the United States were actually in possession under it,
occupies a different position. That comes within the contract
by which the rights of the parties in this action are to be determined, As has been seen, that does not bind the United States
to make good any loss which necessarily results from the use
of the property, but only such as results from the want of reasonable care in the use. It binds them not to commit waste, or
suffer it to be committed. If they fail in this, they fail in the
performance of their contract, and are answerable for that in
the Court of Claims, which has jurisdiction of "all claims
founded upon any contract, express or implied, with the government of the United States, which may be suggested to it by a

Oct. 1876.]

UNITED STATES v. BoSTWICK.

petition filed therein." Rev. Stat. § 1059; 10 Stat. 612, § 1. If
there had been in this lease an express agreement to repair,
certainly it could not have been successfully claimed that the
Court of Claims would not have had jurisdiction to award
damages fox a failure to rebuild after the fire, even though the
fire was cqused by the soldiers while in the hospital for treatmen b. But the implied obligation as to the manner of the use
is as much obligatory upon the United States as -it would be if
it had been expressed. If there is a failure to comply with the
agreement in this particular, it is a breach of the contract, for
which the United States consent to be sued in the Court of
Claims. All depends upon the contract. Without that, the
jurisdiction does not include actions for damages by the army;
with it, damages contracted against may be recovered as for a
breach of the contract.
It appears in the finding that during the occupancy under
the lease ornamental trees were destroyed; fences and walls
torn down, and the materials used for sidewalks and the erection of other buildings, or carried away; and that stone was
quarried and gravel dug from a stone-quarry and gravel-pit on
the premises, and taken away. This was voluntary waste, and
within the prohibition of the implied agreement in the lease.
For this the Court of Claims can award compensation in this
action. The amount of this damage has not been found
5. The account, as stated in the quartermaster-general's office.
This does not conclude the United States. It was a*mere adjustment of the accounts by one of the bureaus in one of the
departments of the government, rejected by the accounting
officers of the treasury, and never paid. Certainly this can
have no binding effect upon the United States.
The judgment must be reversed, and the cause remanded,
with instructions to render judgment against the Unite&States
for the rent of the premises from June 80 to Aug. 28, 1862, at
the rate of $250 per month, and for the damages done to the
property other than the destruction of the house by fire during
the occupation of the United States under their lease, except
to the extent that the same necessarily resulted from the use
of the premises by the soldiers of the army of the United States
for the purposes of a hospital and camp-ground, and it is
So ordered.

