Oct. 1876.]

UNITED STATES V. CLARK.

the Missouri River Railroad Company, and on the 18th of
April, 1865, it consolidated with another company, increased
its capital, and changed its name to that of the Leavenworth
and Missouri-Pacific Railroad Company. We suppose this
to have been authorized by the statutes of Kansas. Laws
1862, p. 768. We are certainly of opinion that when the parties interested in the two companies are content; when the
newly named company has been in operation for ten years;
when the county has received and held its stock until 1869;
when the same was sold by the county by authority of the
legislature,- it is not competent for such a contracting party
to say that there was an irregularity in the organization of the
company. Bigelow on Estoppel, 464; Moran v. Commissioners, 2 Black, 722; Zabriskie v. Cleveland, 23 How. 400;
Pendleton v. Amy, 13 Wall. 297.
There are some other objections made, but none of them are
serious in their character.
Judgment affirmed.

UIuED STATES v. CLARIC.
1. The act of May 9, 1866 (14 Stat. 44), extending the jurisdiction of the Court
of Claims, does not dispense with the existing rules regulating appeals from
that court.
2. In cases to which that act applies, the Court of Claims should set forth in
its finding of facts the amount of loss, if any, which the petitioner has
sustained.

from the Court of Claims.
On the 12th of April, 1873, Clark filed his petition in the
Court of Claims praying relief from responsibility, under the
act of May 9, 1866, 14 Stat. 44, on account of the loss, by robbery, of funds to the amount of $15,979.87 belonging to the
United States, and in his hands as a paymaster in the army.
The United States pleaded the general issue and the Statute of
APPEAL

Limitations..

The court found -thefacts as follows :
1. On the 6th April, 1865, the claimant lost, by robbery,
while in the line of his duty as assistant paymaster in the army

UNITED STATES V. CLA RK.

[Sup. Ct.

at Franklin, Texas, a package of government funds. The
package was in his official safe at his quarters, and the loss was
without fault or neglect on the part of the officer.
2. The claimant, after duly reporting the loss, and making
known the facts to his superior officers, credited himself in his
next account-current as follows: "Amount lost by robbery of
safe at Franklin, Texas, $15,979.87." This item of credit was
not acted upon by the accounting officers of the treasury until
Ihe final revision of his accounts, on the 6th of November, 1871,
when it was disallowed, and charged to him as a balance on
hand.
8. The robbery was committed in the daytime, by forcibly
breaking into the claimant's quarters, during his temporary
absence, and then forcibly breaking into the government safe,
in which the funds were. Two persons were apprehended and
tried by military commission held at the head-quarters of the
Department of New Mexico, on the 5th of June, 1865. On the
trial the claimant was a witness, and testified as to the amount
of the funds stolen. The commission found the prisoners guilty.
Its proceedings were duly approved, and its sentence carried
into effect.
The claimant, at the time of the robbery, had no clerk or
assistant. It appears, from other testimony, that a paukage of
money was in the safe, but the precise amount thereof was
known to no person but the claimant. He was 6f good 'character, personally and officially, and had always kept regular and
exact accounts of the funds in his official custody, and had
made due returns iri regard to, and properly accounted for, the
same. He immediately reported to his superior officers that
+he funds in that safe were $15,979.87, which was the amount
of the loss appearing on his subsequent official reports, and
charged against him as deficiency on the final revision and
settlement of his accounts by the accounting officers of the
treasury.
4. On the 17th of February, 1873, a suit was instituted by
the United States, in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the first circuit, on the official bond of said claimant, which
suit is still pending, to recover the sum of $20,000, claimed to
be due from him thereon.

Oct. 1876.]

UNITED STATES V. CLARK.

Upon the facts found the court decided as conclusions of
law: 1. The court having ascertained the facts of the loss in this
case, and that it was without fault or neglect on the pait of the
claimant, may render a decree in his favor, as directed by the
statute, though the evidence of the amount of the funds lost-was
entirely circumstantial.
2. The suit having been brought within six years after the
claimant's accounts were settled at the treasury, in which he
had charged the United States with the amount of the loss,
and within six years after such item of credit for the funds so
lost was first acted upon by the accounting officers, and consequently within six years from the time when the officer was
first held responsible for such loss, the suit is not barred by the
Statute of Limitations, though more than six years elapsed
between the loss and the bringing of the suit.
Jungment having been rendered for the claimant, the United
States appealed to this court.
Mr. Assistant Attorney- General Smith for the appellant.
Mr. Charles B. Pike, contra.
AIR. CHIF JUSTIcE WA-,E

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Our rules regulating appeals from the Court of Claims require
that the record shall contain, among other things, "a finding
by the Court of Claims of the facts in the case established by
the evidence, in the nature of a special verdict, but not the evidence establishing them, and a separate statement of the conclusions of law upon said facts on which the court founds its
judgment or decree. The finding of facts and conclusions of
law to be certified to this court as a part of the record." Rule 1,
sect. 2.
The act of Congress under which this action was prosecuted
does not dispense with these requirements. The Court of
Claims should, therefore, have found, among other things, the
amount of the loss which had been sustained. It is stated in
the judgment as entered in form, and alluded -o in the opinion
of the court, but is entirely omitted from the special finding,
which is to be in the nature of a special verdict. It is otu

STORI V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. CI;.

duty to apply the law to the facts as found, and not to decide
upon the weight of the evidence.
Upon the facts set forth in the special finding this judgment
cannot be sustained, because of the omission to state the amount
of the loss. In our action upon the appeal we do not look
beyond the finding.
Judgment reversed on account of an insufficient finding, and
cause remanded for such further proceedings as law and
justice may require.

STORM V. UNITED STATES.
1. Alleged errors, not presented by a bill of exceptions, nor otherwise apparent
on the face of the record, are not the proper subjects of re-examination by
an appellate tribunal.
2. Defendants who have actually received the consideration of a written agreement cannot, in an action brought against them for a breach of their covenants, set up that the agreement did not bind the plaintiff to perform his
covenants, provided it appears that he has performed them in good faith
and without prejudice to the defendants.
8. Questions propounded to a witness, on his cross-examination, merely to ascertain the names of persons whom a party may desire to call as witnesses to
disprove the case of the opposite party, may be excluded; and it is within
the discretion of the presiding judge to determine, in view of the evidence
previously introduced, and of the nature of the testimony given by the witness in his examination-in-chief, to what extent a cross-examination, with a
view to affect his credibility, shall be allowed.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of California.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Submitted on printed arguments by Hr. Quinton Corwine
for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Assistant Attorney- General
Smith for the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE C=rFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

Errors of the Circuit Court resting in parol cannot be re-examined in this court by writ of error. Instead of that, the writ
of error addresses itself to the record; and the rule is, that,
whenever the error is apparent in the record, whether it be
made to appear by bill of exceptions, an agreed statement of

