HILL v. THOMPSON.

[Sup. 0t.

HILL v. TiromPsox.
1. This court cannot review the action of the Circuit Court -n the exercise of its
supervisory jurisdiction over an adjudication of bankruptcy rendered by the
District Court.
2. It is immaterial whether such adjudication was upon a summary hearing by
the District Court, or after a trial by jury to ascertain the fact of the allege-d
bankruptcy.
3. Sandusky v. National Bank (23 Wall. 289) and Wiswall et al. v. Campbdl et al.,
Assignees (93 U. S. 347), cited and approved.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Michigan.
Thompson commenced proceedings in involuntary bankruptcy
against Hill & Leufestey in the District Court for the Eastern
District of Michigan. Hill appeared to show cause against the
petition, and, under sect. 6026, Rev. Stat., demanded a trial by
jury, "to ascertain the fact of the alleged bankruptcy." Pursuant to this demand a trial was had, which resulted in a verdict finding the facts set forth in the petition to be true; and
an adjudication was in.ade accordingly. Exceptions were taken
at the trial to the rulings of the court upon the admissibility of testimony, and also to the charge. The proceedings
were then carried by writ of error to the Circuit Court, where
the judgment of the District Court was affirmed; and this court
is now asked to review the action of the Circuit Court by writ
of error.
Hr. . B. Brown for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. C. A. Kent, contra.
MR. C=EF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.

The first question presented in this case is one of jurisdiction.
In Sandusky v. National Bank, 23 Wall. 289, we decided that
an adjudication of bankruptcy, without a trial by jury, could
not be brought here for re-examination by appeal, as the Circuit Court could only review such a proceeding under its supervisory jurisdiction where its action was final. It only remains
to consider, therefore, whether a different rule must be applied
when the adjudication is after a trial by jury.

Oct. 1876.]

O

.LLv. THOIPSON.

The reason why we cannot review the action of the Circuit
Courts in the exercise of their supervisory jurisdiction under the
bankrupt law, is, as we have already said at the present term,
in Wiswall et al. v. Campbell et al., Assignees, 93 U. S. 347,
"that a proceeding in bankruptcy, from its commencement to
its close upon the final settlement of the estate, is but one suit.
The several motions made and acts done in the bankrupt court
in the progress of the cause are not distinct suits at law or in
equity, but parts of one suit in bankruptcy, from which they
cannot be separated. As our jurisdiction extends only to a reexamination of final judgments or decrees in suits at law or in
equity, it follows that we have no control over judgments and
orders made by the courts below in mere bankruptcy proceedings."
Going, then, to the bankrupt law, we find, Rev. Stat., sect.
5026, that in cases of involuntary bankruptcy "the court shall
proceed summarily to hear the allegations of the petitioner and
the debtor;" or "shall, if the debtor . . . -so demands, in
writing, order a trial by jury at the first term of the court at
which a jury shall be in attendance, to ascertain the fact of
the alleged bankruptcy." And, also, that "if upon the hearing
or trial, the facts set forth in the petition are found to be true,
. . . the court shall adjudge the debtor to be a bankrupt."
Sect. 5028. From this it is clear that the trial by jury is
as much before the court "when sitting as a court of bankruptcy," and as much a part of the suit in bankruptcy, as the
summary hearing by the court is when a jury shall not be
demanded.
The supervisory jurisdiction of the Circuit Court extends to
all cases and questions arising in the District Court when
sitting as a court of bankruptcy, and it follows that our jurisdiction is excluded over all such questions and cases. In Insurance Company v. Comstock, 16 Wall. 258, we held that a writ of
error was the "proper process" for the Circuit Court to employ
in bringing up for re-examination under its supervisory jurisdiction the questions arising upon a jury trial provided for in sect.
5026 ; but that does not reach the question here involved, which
is, whether the judgment of the Circuit Court in such a proceeding is a final judgmefit in a civil action. If it is not, we

BARNEY V. KEOKUK.

[Sup. O .

have no power of review, because only such judgments of that
court can be re-examined here. Rev. Stat., sect. 691. We
think it is not; and, as the general subject has been so recently
before us in Wiswall et al. v. Campbell et al., Assignees, we content ourselves with a reference in support of this conclusion to
the opinion in that case, following, as it does, that in Sanduslc1
v. National Bank, supra.
Writ of error dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

BARNEY v. KEOKUX.
1. In order that the passage-ways of commerce and navigation might be subject
to public authority and control, the title to the land under water and to the
shore below ordinary high-water mark, in navigable rivers and arms of the
sea, was, by the common law, vested in the sovereign for the public use and
benefit.
2. In England, tide-waters only were regarded as navigable. Hence the rule as
to property was often expressed as applicable to them only, although the
reason of it would make it apply to all navigable waters.
3. The form, instead of the substance, of the rule has been adopted in many of the
States of this country ; and in them the public title to the beds and shores
of navigable streams is confined to tide-water.
4. From the same cause, the admiralty jurisdiction of the United States was for
a long period restricted to tide-water.
5. Since the decision of this court in The Genesee Chief, in 1851 (12 How. 443),
declaring all the great lakes and rivers of the country navigable that are
really such, there is no longer any reason for thus restricting the title of
the State, except as a change in that respect might interfere with vested
rights and established rules of property.
6. In Iowa, the true rule has been adopted; and it is held that the bed of the
Mississippi7River and its banks to high-water mark belong to the State, and
that the title of the riparian proprietor extends only to that line.
7. This rule applies as well where the land was granted to bound upon the river
generally (as in the case of tile Half-breed Sac and Fox reservation), as
where it was granted according to surveys run along the bank by a meandering line. Hence it applies in the city of Keokuk, which is on that
reservation.
8. The public authorities, therefore, have the right, in Iowa, to build wharves
and levees on the bank of the Mississippi below high water, and make other
improvements thereon, necessary to navigation, or public passage by railways or otherwise, without the consent of the adjacent proprietor, and
without making him compensation.
9. Although no permanent obstruction, like a depot building, can be erected on
the streets of a toi n, it is held in Iowa that they may, by public authority,

