THE

"EDITH."

[Sup. Ct,

in error are only interested in securing the payment of their
legacy. A statement of the accounts of the executor, upon
the principles settled by the Court of Appeals, may produce a
fund sufficient to satisfy them. The only queition upon which
our jurisdiction can be invoked arises out of the decision as to
the liability of the executor to account for his investments in
Confederate securities. As to this, the present plaintiffs in
error, having been non-residents of the Confederate territory
during the war, occupy a different position from the other
parties; and, until the suit has been finally disposed of in the
State courts, the fund ascertained, and the results of a decree
ordering distribution known, we cannot tell whether they will
be injuriously affected by the errors now complained of. They
cannot bring the case here for the benefit of the other parties
interested in the estate, except so far as the relief granted to
them may indirectly operate to the advantage of the others.
If in the end, upon the distribution of the estate under the
principles of accounting as now established, they shall not be
able to obtain payment of the amount due them, the case may
be again taken to the Court of Appeals upon the future decree
of the Circuit Court, and from there here, if necessary. Whether
their interest in the convertible value of the Confederate currency invested in Confederate bonds for the purchase of State
stock is sufficient to justify them in doing so, will be a matter
for them to determine, after the final decree shall have been
rendered.
In the present condition of the suit, however, we are compelled to dismiss the writ for want of jurisdiction.
Writ dismissed.

THn , EDiTH."
1. Under the maritime law, there is no lien upon a vessel for materials furnished
and work done in repairing her at hey home port.
2. A creditor, claiming the benefit of the provisions of the statute of New York,
passed April 24, 1862, which purport to give such a lien, must, whether they
be invalid or not, - a point which the court deems it unnecessary in this
case to decide, -take it subject to all the conditions which they impose;
and he loses it if it be not enforced within the time prescribed. Where a

Oct. 1876.]

THE "EDITH.

"

seizure has been seasonably made, a bond in conformity to them, when exe
cuted and delivered to him by the owner, is a substitute for the lien, and
works a discharge of the vessel.
8. The District Court can marshal the fund in its registry only between lienholders and owners.

APPE AL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
In July, 1870, Buckman & Co., having done work and furnished materials amounting to $3,597.37 in repairing the
"Edith," while she was lying in navigable waters in her home
port of New York, chimed a lien on the ship for materials and
repairs, under an act of the State of New York, entitled "An
Act to provide for the collection of demands against ships and
vessels," passed April 24, 1862. Acts of 1862, p. 456. The
requisite notice was filed the twenty-seventh day of July, 1870,
a few days after the vessel had left that port. Some time
after her return, the precise period not appearing, proceedings
were instituted by the firm, and an attachment was issued to
the sheriff of the city and county of New York, who, after seizing her, discharged her on a satisfactory bond for the claim
having been given on behalf of the owner. On the first day
of April, 1871, she was libelled in the District Court of the
United States, sitting in admiralty, and sold under a decree
rendered on the 8th of the following month. After satisfying
the decree and subsequent costs, there remained $31,176.82 in
the registry of the court. On the 17th of the latter month, the
firm ified their petition in that court, praying that so much of
the fund as was necessary be applied to the payment.of the
amount so due them, which they claimed was, at the time it
accrued, a lien on the "Edith," she being a domestic vessel belonging to the port of New York. At the time of ffling the petition, a suit by the firm on the bond, which had been given to
release her from the attachment, was pending M-the State court.
The petition was resisted by Sedgwick, the assignee in bankruptcy of the owner of the "Edith," and by Tyler. To the
latter more than the amount of the fund was then due
from the owner, who had executed a mortgage therefor on
three-fourths of the vessel. Jan. 11, 1870. The instrument
was recorded the same day in the New York custom-house, and

THE

1

" EDITH."

[Sup. Ct.

a copy of it filed in the office of the register of the city and
county of New York. There was also a prior mortgage on onehalf of the vessel.
The District Court decided that Buckman & Co. had not a
lien on the ship, nor any title to such fund as between them
and the assignee in bankruptcy and the mortgagees.
The petition of Buckman & Co. was dismissed; and they
appealed to the Circuit Court of the United States for that district, where a decree of affirmance was passed. They then
appealed to this court.
Mr. F. A. Wilcox for the appellants.
Mr. -E.P. Wheeler, contra.
MR. JUSTIOP STBONG delivered the opinion of the court.
Assuming that, by virtue of the provisions of the statute of
New York, ti April 24, 1862, 4 Gen. Stat. 632, the appellants
had a lien upon the ship for the repairs made and materials furnished by them, it is a vital question whether that lien remained
in existence when the ship was sold on the eighth day of May,
1871. If it had expired, or if it had been discharged before
that day, it is useless to examine the other questions raised in
the case; for, however they might be determined, the decree
made in thd court below must necessarily be affirmed.
The repairs having been made upon a domestic vessel in her
home port, there was no lien for them by the maritime law, and,
therefore, whatever right the appellants had to a lien is that
which was given to them by the laws of the State. The statute undoubtedly gives a lien, but not one of unlimited duration.
The first section declares that debts contracted for work done
or materials furnished in the State, for repairing sea-going or
ocean-bound vessels, shall be a lien upon such vessels, and be
preferred to all other liens thereon, except mariners' wages.
But the second section declares that "such debt shall cease to
be a lien at the expiration of six months after the said debt
was contracted, unless at the time when said six months shall
expire such ship or vessel shall be absent from the port at
which such debt was contracted, in which case the said lien
shall continue until the expiration of ten days after such ship
or vessel shall next return to said port.

Oct. 1876.]

THE "EDITH."

The repairs in this case were made upon the ship in the
month of July, 1870, and on or before the 22d, for the ship
cleared on that day, and sailed from the port a day or two afterwards. The lien, therefore, expired in January, 1871, unless
the ship was then absent from the port _of New York. If she
was then absint, the lien expired at the end of ten days after
her next return. It does not appear in the record exactly at
what time she did return;-but, in the petition of the appellants
for an appeal to this court, it is averred that she was libelled in
the southern district of New York, at the suit of another party,
on the 1st of April, 1871, was duly attached, and was sold by
virtue of a decree obtained in that case. It is the proceeds of
that sale, made May 8, 1871, -which are now in the registry of
the District Court, and the petition of the appellants for payment out of the proceeds was not presented until May 17.
How, then, can it be maintained that the statutory lien for the
debt had not expired ? It is argued the presumption is that
the ten days next after the return of the ship had not elapsed
when the appellants fied their petition. Were it possible that
any such presumption could be accepted, it would be a presumption of fact, and there is quite enough in the case to overcome
it. The ship was libelled in admiralty, as we have noticed, on
the 1st of April, 1871. She was duly seized, a decree against
her was made, and under it. she was sold on the 8th of May.
It is hardly possible that the seizure, decree, and sale could
have been made within ten days. It could not have been, if in
accordance with the usual course of admiralty practice. As
the seizure was made in the southern district of New York, it
would be an inadmissible presumption that the ship had not
returned to the port of New York more than ten days prior to
the sale, or certainly more than ten days prior to the 17th of
May, when the appellants filed their petition. And this is not
all. The evidence shows thlat, after the return of the ship, the
appellants caused an attachment to be issued out of the Supreme
Court of New York, in virtue of which the sheriff of the city
and county seized the ship, and a satisfactory bond was given,
as allowed by the statute of the State, and the ship was discharged. This must have been before the marshal had taken
the ship into custody under the process of the Admiralty Court.

THE " EDITH."

[Sup. CL.

The sheriff could not have attached her after the marshals seizure. It is reasonably clear, therefore, that she had returned to
the port of New York more than ten days before she was sold.
This is the result of affirmative proof.
But, were there no such proof, the burden of showing the
contrary would rest upon the appellants. Six months having
expired after the repairs were made to the ship, they had no lien,
unless the ship was absent from the port at the expiration of that
period, and then only during ten days after her next return.
The lien during those ten days was a special privilege given to
them by statute, - an exceptional right. Hence, it was incumbent upon them to show that such a right existed, and, by proof,
to bring themselves within the exception. This is always the
rule when a party claims a peculiar right given by a statute, a right not common to all, and which is given only when a prescribed state of facts shall exist. Such proof the appellants
have not adduced, and, therefore, they have failed to show'that
their statutory lien had not expired before they presented their
petition for payment, and even before the ship was sold.
And were this not so, still, on the facts of the case as exhibited by the record, it must be held that the lien was discharged.
It is almost superfluous to remark, that whatever lien the
appellants ever had, they held it subject to all the provisions
of the statute which gave it to them. They sued out an attachment against the ship, after her return to New York, for the
recovery of the claim they now set up. The ship was seized
by the sheriff of the city and county, and, a satisfactory bond
having been given according to the provisions of the lien law,
the ship was discharged from the custody of the sheriff, and
from the attachment. Upon that bond a suit has been brought,
which is now pending. The effect of such an attachment and
bond is plainly declared by the statute. The twelfth section
enacts, that, "upon such bond being executed and delivered to
such attaching creditor or his attorney, . . .no further proceedings against the said vessel so seized shall be had under
the provisions of this title, founded upon any demand secured
by such bond." The bond is thus made a substitute for the
lien, and its purpose and effect are to work a discharge of the
vessel. It matters not that the statutory provisions for enforc-

Oct. 1876.]

HYDE V. WOODS.

ing the lien have been adjudged invalid, because beyond the
power of the State legislature. If they are invalid, it may be
doubted whether all the provisions purporting to give a lien are
not also invalid, because inseparable from the prescribed nmeans
of enforcing it. Budt without deciding that, we may remark,
that clearly the State had power to enact that the lien it created
siould terminate, if a bond -was given in place of the vessel; and
the, creditor claiming the lien must take it, subject to the conditions imposed.
It need hardly be added, that though a proceeding in rem
and a petition for payment of a claim out of proceeds of a sale
remaining in the registry are distinct things, - the former proceeding on the ground of a lien, - yet no one except an owner
is entitled to payment out of the registry, unless he has a lien
upon the fund therein. The court can marshal the fund only
between lien-holders and-owners.
-Decree affirmed.

HYDE V. WOODS.
1. A provision in the constitution of a stock and exchange board, whose
members are limited in nutpber, and elected by ballot, that a member, upon
failing to perform his contracts, or becoming insolvent, may assign his seat
to be sold, and that the proceeds shall, to the exclusion of his outside creditors, be first applied to'the benefit of the members to whom he is indebted,
- the purchaser not becoming a member, nor having the right to transact
business in the board until he shall be elected by ballot, - is neither contrary to public policy, nor in violation of the Bankrupt Act.
2. Membership of the board is not a matter of absolute sale. Although property, it is, when purchased, qualified and incumbered by conditions which
the creators of it had the right to impose, and a compliance with which is
necessary to obtain it.
8. Nictolls, Assignee, v. Eaton, 91 U. S. 716, reaffirmed.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of California.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mir. -EdwardB..Nerrill for the plaintiff in error.
Ko counsel appeared for the defendant in error.
Mm. JusTiCE MaLLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The San Francisco Stock and Exchange Board is a voluntary

