MACLAY V. SANDS.

[Sup. OtL

unless she paid it with her own separate property. She avers
that she paid it with means and money earned and procured
wholly by herself. Of that there is no proof, nor attempt to
adduce proof ; though, if the fact were so, the means of proving
it must have been peculiarly within her knowledge and power,
and we have already observed that money procured by her
earnings belonged to her husband, and was not her separate
property. To hold that conveyances thus taken and thus paid
for are sufficient to protect the property against creditors of
an insolvent husband would be making fraud both profitablh

and easy.

-)ecree affirmed

M.CLAY V. SANDS.
Under the Civil, Practice Act of Montana, judgment cannot be entered againsz
a defendant, as upon default for want of issues to be tried, where there is on
file in the cause an answer specifically denying, upon information and belief
only, all the allegations in the complaint, if it appears that the facs in contro
versy were not within the personal knowledge of the defendant, pand that the
informatiop upon which he based his belief came from his agents employed
to transact the business oit of which the litigation arose.

EniO

to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Montana.

Mr. L. M. Saunders and Mr. W. F. Saunders for the plaintiff in error.

AI. B?. T. Merrle, contra.
MiR. CHrEx JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case presents the single question whether, under the
civil practice act of Montana, judgment can be entered against
a defendant, as upon default for want of issues to be tried,
when there is on file in the cause an answer denying specifically
all the allegations in the complaint, but in which the denial is
based upon information and belief only, if it appears that the
facts in controversy were not within the personal knowledge
of the defendant, and that the information upon which he
based his belief came from his agents employed to transact the
business out of which the litigation arose.

Oct. 1876.]

MACLAY V. SANDS.

Sects. 56 and 63 of the Practice Act are as follows: "SECT. 56. The answer of the defendant shall contain a specific
denial to each allegation in the complaint intended to be controverted by the defendant. . . .In denying any allegation in the
complaint, not presumptively within the knowledge of the defendant,
it shhll be sufficient to put such allegation in issue for the defendant
to state that, as to any such allegation,-he has not and cannot obtain
sufficient knowledge or information upon which to base a belief."
"SECT. 63. All complaints, answers, and replications shall be
verified as provided in this section. ....The affidavit of verification
shall state that the facts stated in the pleading are true to the
knowledge of the person making it, except as to those matters
which are therein stated on his information and belief, and as to
those matters, that he believes it to be true. Such verification
shall be made by the party, or, if there are several parties united in
interest or pleadings, by one at least of such parties acquainted
with the facts, if such party is in the county and capable of making
the affidavit."

The verification in this case was in the proper form, and it
further stated, "that the defendants' said business at Corinne,
Utah, was performed by agents, from whom affiant's information, upon which he based said belief, is derived.!' These facts
are not controverted. The business of the defendants, in respect to which they-were sued, was that of common carriers,
and must necessarily have been conducted to a considerable
extent through agents. Under such circumstances, their knowledge as to many of their transactions would properly come
from information. If the facts had been such as mfist have
been within. their personal knowledge, a denial upon information and belief might perhaps have been properly treated as
evasive; but here any presumption of personal knowledge has
been overcome by the statements in the verification, and unless
parties under such circumstances are permitted to qualify their
denials, they will be compelled to swear positively to that
which they only believe to be true because they have information to that effect.
We do not think that parties, upon a fair construction of
the statute, are driven to that extremity. The denial, when
made, must be specific; but it is none the less specific because

MACLAY V. SANDS.

[Sup. (t

based on information and belief. Provision is made for an
issue by a formal denial, where sufficient knowledge or information upon which to base a belief cannot be obtained. This
implies that, if the necessary information can be obtained, a
statement must be made predicated upon that; and, if it is to
be made, we cannot see what harm can result from adding the
grounds on which it is based. It is the same for all the purposes of an issue whether the qualification is given or not, and
the issue is the material thing to be attained.
But sect. 63 seems to us to be conclusive upon the propriety of
the practice. There provision is made for one form of verification if the statement is upon personal knowledge, and another
if upon information and belief. Why this, if information and
belief in a proper case were not sufficient to justify an averment? But unless the pleading shows that the statement is
founded upon information, &c., the form of the oath prescribed
would be of io avail, because that contemplates a positive verification in all cases where it does not appear in the body of the
pleading that a qualification is intended. In some States, the
practice acts require a verification only to the effect that the
party believes his statements to be true. In such cases there is
no necessity for qualifying the averments in the pleading, because the oath prescribed establishes all the limitation that is
necessary. In Montana, however, the qualification must be
made in the pleading.
This view of the practice is sustained in Rackett v. Richards,
3 E. D. Smith, 13; Sayre v. Cushing, 7 Abb. -Pr. 871, note;
Edwards v. Lent, 8 How. Pr. 28. The cases of Thorn & Maynard v. New York Central Mills, 10 How. Pr. 19, and Blake v.
Eldred, 18 id. 244, cited in opposition, involved only the question of what might be denied under the allegation of "want of
suifficient knowledge or information to form a belief," and -all
that was said beyond that was not necessary to the decision.
We think, therefore, that the denial upon information and
belief was sufficient to present an issue for trial, and that the
oourt erred in deciding otherwise.
Cause remanded, with instructions to reverse the judgment of
the District Court and to direct that court to proceed, in accordance with this opinion, as law and Justice may require.

