Oct. 1876.]

WAiTS v. DoWLEY.

the rules of the exchange, of which the bankrupt was a member, had been received and paid to his fellow-members. This
was asserted to be a preference void by the bankrupt law; and
the rules of the exchange, under which it was done, were assailed
on the same ground taken here. It is true that, in the decision
of the Queen's Bench in bank, Lord Campbell, the Chief Justice, ruled against the plaintiff, on the ground that the money
in question arose out of wagering contracts, which, as they could
not have been enforced by the bankrupt, were, therefore, not
subject to the claim of the assignee. But Crompton, J., held,
also, that the money being received and distributed under the
rules of the stock exchange, by reason of the bankrupt having
become a member subject to said rules, this was a sufficient
defence to the party who so received and distributed it.
Judgment affirmed.

WAiTE v. Do-w=y.
A State statute is not void, which, for the purposes of taxation, requires, under
a penalty for his neglect or refusal, the cashier of each national bank within
the State to transmit, on or before the fifteenth day of April in each year, to
the clerks of the several towns in the State in which any stock or share holders of such bank shall reside, a true list of the names of such stock or share
holders on the books of such bank, together with the amount of money actually paid in on each share on the first day of that month.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Vermont.
On the 9th of November, 1865, the legislature of Vermont,
passed the following act. Acts of 1865, p. 17.
"An Act providing for taxing stock in the several banking associations in this State, formed under the act of Congress approved
June 8, 1864, entitled, 'An Act to provide a national currency.'
"SECT. 1. It shall be the duty of the cashiers of the several
banking associations in this State, formed under the act of Congress
approved June 3, 1864, entitled, 'An Act to provide a national
currency,' and the cashiers of all other banks in this State, to transmit to the clerks of the several towns in this State in which any
stock or share holders of such banking association shall reside, a

WAITE V. DOWLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

true list of the names of such stock or share holders on the books
of such banking-association, together with the amount of money
actually paid in on each share on the first day of April in each year
hereafter, on or before the fifteenth day of April in each year.
"SECT. 2. The stock and shares of all such banking associations
shall be set in the list, and taxed in the same manner that the stock
in the several banks in this State, -which are chartered under the
authority of this State, are liable to be taxed by the existing laws
thereof.
"SECT. 3. If any of the stock of such banking associations is
owned by, or stands in the name of, any person residing out of this
State, it shall be the duty of the cashier of such banking association
to transmit to the clerk of the town in which such banking association is situated, the names of all such non-resident stock or share
holders, with the number of shares standing against the name of
each of such stock or share holders on the books of such banking
association, together with the amount of money actually paid in on
each share on or before the fifteenth day of April in each year.
" SECT. 4. Whenever the collector in any town in which any
such banking association is situated shall have a tax against any
stock or share holder in such banking association who is not a resident of this State, it shall be the duty of the cashier of such banking
association, upon presentation of such tax to him by such collector,
to pay the same, and charge the same to such stock or share holder
on the books of such banking association, and all dividends due and
becoming due upon the same shall be holden to such banking association for the payment of such tax.
"SECT. 5. If any cashier shall neglect or refuse to make returns
to any town in this State, as provided in this act, he shall forfeit
and pay to the treasurer of such town, for the benefit of such town,
the sum of $500, to be recovered by an action on the case, in the
name of such treasurer, founded on this statute."
This action was brought in March, 1870, in the County
Court of Windham County, Vermont, by Dowley, as treasurer of
the town of Brattleboro', against Waite, the cashier of the First
National Bank of Brattleboro', to recover the penalty prescribed by thle fifth section of the foregoing act, for refusing,
in 1866 and 1867, to make to that town the returns provided
for in the first section.
The only defence set up at the trial was, that, as the bank
was organized under the law of Congress, Waite, as such cashier,

Oct. 1876.]

WAITE V. DOWLEY.

was amenable to no law but that, and that the State bad not
power to prescribe or define his duties as such cashier.
Waite also offered evidence tending to show, that, at all
times during the years in question, the bank kept such lists of
its stockholders as the dct of Congress requires, which were
open to the inspection of the trustees of said town, who were
permitted at all times to transcribe therefrom, and set in the
grand, list of the town all such stock of said bank as they
deemed taxable.
Dowley waived all objection to the admission of the evidence,
but claimed that, if admitted, it constituted no legal defence to
the action.
The court thereupon directed a verdict for Dowley, which
was taken.
To this decision Waite duly excepted; his exceptions were
allowed, and the cause passed to the Supreme Court for review.
That court rendered a decision affirming the judgment of the
county court, and giving judgment for Dowley against Waite
for the amount of the verdict with subsequent interest.
Waite thereupon brought this writ here, assigning for error
that the Supreme Court of Vermont erred, First, In holding that the statute of the State was valid under
the Constitution of the United States, as not repugnant to nor
in conflict with the acts of Congress providing for the organization and management of national banks, being the acts of
March 25, 1863, and June 3, 1864.
Second, In rendering judgment against him for the penalties
provided by a statute which is invalid, as repugnant to and in
conflict with said acts of Congress.
1rr. -. J Phelps for the plaintiff in error.
A long and uniform course of decision in this court has established the proposition, that, in all cases where the State
governments have a concurrent power of legislation with the
national government, if Congress exercises its power upon the
subject, that of the States is excluded. They cannot enter
upon the same ground nor legislate for the same object.
Nor is it the question in such cases, whether the two statutes
are, in their operation, necessarily repugnant or contradictory
to each other. The State cannot legislate at all upon the subVOL. IV.

94

580

WAITE v. DowLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

ject, except so far as Congress may permit. When once Congress ha acted upon it, that action becomes supreme, and all
interferi. g legislation of the States, whether in aid of or in
oppositior\to it, is suspended and prohibited.
It is, therefore, as much beyond the power of a State to impose a penalty for a non-compliance as for a compliance with
the requirements of an act of Congress. Houston v. Moore,
5 Wheat. 1; McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 id. 816; Osborn v.
Banke of United States, 9 id. 738; Brown v. Maryland, '12 id.
419 ; Weston v. Charleston,2 Pet. 466 ; -Dobbinsv. Brie County,
16 id. 435; Gilmore v. Philadelphia, 8 Wall. 713; Ex parte
Alfcgeil, 13 id. 240; Bank of Commerce v. New York City,
2 Black, 620; Farmers' & Mechanics' National Bank v. -Dearing, 91 U. S. 29.
Congress has not only provided how, where, and to what
extent shares in national banks may be taxed, but has likewise
prescribed the means by which the State authorities shall obtain
the requisite information, and imposed upon the bank officers
the duty of furnishing it. The whole ground is therefore covered by congressional legislation, the validity of which is not
open to question.
The State then interferes; and, in order to tax the shares at
a place and in a way not authorized by Congress, imposes upon
the bank a new and entirely different duty, under a penalty not
provided by Congress, but to be recovered in the State courts,
at the suit of the local authorities.
The effect of the Vermont statute is, therefore, not only to
alter and extend, in material respects, the provisions of the
act of Congress, but to impose a penalty upon the officers of
the bank, for not discharging a duty which the act does not
require.
The act of Congress of 1864 provides that the shares of
stock in the national banks shall be assessed "at the place
where such bank is located, and not elsewhere." The act of
1868 was not in force at the dates when Waite refused to furnish the lists.
The second section of the statute provides that the stock
and shares of national banks shall be listed and taxed in the
same manner as the stock of the banks which axe chartered

Oct. 1876.]

WAITE v. DOWLEY.

under the authority of Vermont are liable to be taxed under
the State law. That law (Stat. Vt. c. 83) makes all personal property, including stocks, taxable in the town where
the owners reside, and not elsewhere.
It is for the purpose of carrying out this method of taxation
that the statute requires the cashiers to transmit to the townclerks of all towns where any stockholders may reside, lists of
such stockholders, and of the number of their shares; and, for
a neglect or refusal so to do, prescribes the penalty which this
suit was brought to recover.
The statute is, therefore, in direct and palpable conflict with
the provisions of the act of Congress of 1864 in respect to the
place where the shares shall be taxed. Both cannot stand:
one or the other must give way.
The validity of a State law, providing for such a mode of
taxation prior to the act of 1868, has been twice before this
court, - in Austin v. The Alderman, 7 Wall. 694, and Tappan
v. Merchants' National Bank, 19 id. 490.
It was left undecided, the decision becoming unnecessary.
But the language of the court in the latter case clearly indicates their opinion that the State law could not be supported.
The imperative and explicit terms of the act of Congress leave
no room for the discussion of the question.
In the City of Utica v. Churchill, 33 N. Y. 161, the Court
of Appeals held that the assessment of a shareholder. out of
the ward in the city where the national bank was located,
made in accordance with the laws of New York, was void,
because it conflicted with the forty-first section of the act of
Congress.
The validity of the statute, in this particular, directly affects
the plaintiff in error. It is for a refusal to aid in giving effect
to a mode of taxation expressly prohibited by Congress that
the penalty has been inflicted, by the rendition of the judgment of which he complains. He is, therefore, entitled to
insist upoil the invalidity of the statute in respect of the mode
of taxation it provides, as well as in respect of the personal
duty and penalty it imposes upon bim.
Mr. Charles N. Davenport, contra.

WAITE

v.

DOWLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

MR. JUSTIOE MrLLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Vermont, and, as is frequent in writs to the State courts, it is
objected that there is no jurisdiction. The plaintiff in error
was cashier of a national bank in that State i and the judgment which this writ brings here for review was rendered
against him for penalties imposed by a statute of that State, for
his refusal to transmit to the clerk of the town of Brattleboro'
a true list of the shareholders of the bank who resided in that
town, with the number of shares held, and the amount paid
on" said shares. The record shows that "the defendant's counsel claimed in defence, that, as said bank was organized under
the law of Congress referred to in plaintiff's declaration, the
defendant, as such cashier, was amenable to no law but said
law of Congress, and that the State legislature had not power
to prescribe or define his duties as such cashier." That this
proposition raises what is called a Federal question, within the
meaning of the act of 1867, admits of no doubt. We are also
of opinion that no judgment could have been rendered against
the defendant in the State courts, without holding, and in
effect deciding, that this plea was bad; for, if the State could
not impose the duty of making such a list on the cashier by
reason of the act of Congress or the Constitution of the United
States, then the defendant was guilty of no offence, and the
judgment is for that reason erroneous. This plain proposition
cannot be evaded by any opinion delivered by the Supreme
Court of that State. This court, therefore, has jurisdiction.
And the single question raised by the record is whether the
statute of the State is -Oid which requires the cashier of each
national bank witlhin the State, and the cashiers of all other
banks, to transmit to the clerks Qf the several towns in the
State in which any stock or share holder of such banking association shall reside, a true list of the names of such stock or
share holders, with the number of shares standing against the
name of such share or stock holder on the books of such banking association, together with the amount of money actually
paiA in on such share on the first day of April.
The proposition on which this statute is asserted to be void
is that Congress has legislated upon the same subject, and that,

Oct 1876.]

WAITE V. DoWLEY.

where there exists a concurrent right of legislation in the
States and in Congress, and the latter has exercised its power,
there remains in the States no authority to legislate on the
same matter. It is not necessary to dispute that proposition,
nor, when stated in this general language, can it be controverted. It is none the less true, however, that the line which
divides what is occupied exclusively by any legislation of Congress from what is left open to the action of the States is not
always well defined, and is often distinguished by such nice
shades of difference on each side as to require the closest
scrutiny when the principle is invoked, as it is in this case.
We have more than once held in this court that the national
banks organized under the acts of Congress are subject to State
legislation, except where such legislation is in conflict with
some act of Congress, or where it tends to impair or destroy
the utility of such banks, as agents or instrumentalities of
the United States, or interferes with the purposes of their
creation.
This doctrine was clearly and distinctly announced in NationaZ Bani v. Commonwealth, 9 Wall. 353; and that case has
been often referred to since, with approval, in this court.
The statute of Kentucky required "the cashier of a bank
whose stock is taxed to pay into the treasury the amount of
the tax due. If not, he was to be liable for the same, with
twenty per cent upon the amount." The stock thus to be
taxed was, as in the present case, the stock of the shareholders,
as authorized by the act of Congress; and that statute went
a step further than to require a list of the names of these
shareholders and the amount of their stock, and obliged the
cashier to collect the tax out of the dividends, and pay it over
to the State.
The precise point raised here was taken there, and overruled
by this court; namely, that the laws of the State could impose
no such duty on the. banks organized under the laws of the
United States. The case is directly and conclusively in
point.
It seems to have been supposed that, because Congress has
required of each national bank that a list of its stockholders
shall be kept posted up in some place in their business office,

WAITE v. DOWLEY.

[Sup. Ot.

this covers the same ground as that covered by the Vermont
statute.
The act of Congress, however, was merely designed to furnish to the public dealing with the bank a knowledge of the
names of its corporators, and to what extent they might be
relied on as giving safety to dealing with the bank. It had no
such purpose as the Vermont statute, and was wholly deficient
in the information needed for the purposes of taxation by the
State, as conceded to it by the act of Congress itself.
Some legislation of Vermont was, therefore, necessary to tho
proper exercise of the rightful powers of the State, and, so far
as it required this list, was not in conflict with any provision
of the act of Congress.
This leads to the second objection to the validity of the
State statute; namely, that its purpose was to tax bank shares
at other places than those where the bank was located.
This case does not raise that question.
1. Because the bank whose cashier is the plaintiff in error
was located in the town of Brattleboro', and the judgment
against him is for refusing to deliver the list of shareholders to
the clerk of that town, and not for his refusal to deliver such a
list to any other town. The delivery to this clerk of a list of
the shareholders in that town would have been in aid of the
taxation of the shares at the place where the bank was organized and did business, and such taxation is legal within the
narrowest definition of the act of Congress.
2. But if it be true that so much of this statute as is
supposed to authorize other towns in which shareholders
reside to tax such shares is unconstitutional, that does not
invalidate the part of it we have been considering. It will be
time enough to decide the provision of the State law authorizing such taxation unconstitutional, when an attempt is made
to colilect such a tax, and the party resisting it shall bring the
question here. His rights are not affected.by the acts demanded
of the cashier; and the latter has no right to make a case for
him in advance. This court does not sit here to try moot cases
to solve a question which may never be raised by any party
entitled to raise it.
Judgment affirmed.

