246

FOSTER

FOSTER V. MASTER, ETC. OF NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

V. MASTER AND WARDENS OF THE PORT OF

NEW

ORLEANS.
The act of the legislature of Louisiana, approved March 6, 1869, in relation to the
survey of the hatches of every sea-going vessel arriving at New Orleans, and
of the damaged goods coming on board of her, &c., being a regulation of commerce with foreign nations and among the several States, is in violation of
the Constitution of the United States, and therefore void.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Submitted on printed 'arguments by Mr. H. J. Leovy for the
plaintiff in error. No counsel appeared for the defendants in
error.
MR. JUSTICE SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This controversy has arisen out of an act of the legislature
of Louisiana, approved March 6, 1869. By the first section it
-was made the duty of the master and wardens of the port of
New Orleans to offer their services to make a survey of the
hatches of all sea-going vessels which should arrive at that por ,
and a penalty was prescribed for the neglect of this duty. The
second section declares "that it shall be unlawful for any
person other than the said master and wardens, or their legally
constituted deputy, to make any survey of the hatches of seagoing vessels coming to said port of New Orleans, or to make
any survey of damaged goods coming on board of such vessels,
whether such survey be made on board or on shore, or to give
certificates on orders for sale of suoh damaged goods at auction,
or to do any other of the acts and things prescribed by law for
said master and wardens to do and perform; and the person
doing such illegal and forbidden acts, his instigators and encouragers, shall be liable and bound to pay in solido to the said
master and wardens $100, with damages and costs, tor each of
said illegal and forbidden acts so done."
The petition avers that Foster resides in the city of New
Orleans, and has been and is continually violating the provisions of the act by making surveys of the hatches of sea-going
vessels arriving at that port, and of damaged goods, and hav

Oct. 1876.]

FoSTE.R v. MASTER,

ETC. OF NEW ORLEANS.

247

been and is engaged in acting as, and performing the duties
which belonged to, the master and wardens of the port.
An injunction was prayed for. It was granted by the lower
court, and the Judgment was affirmed by the- Supreme Court of
the State. A writ of error was thereupon sued out by Foster,
and the case is thus brought before this court for review.
The defendants in error have failed to enter their appearance,
and no brief in their behalf has been submitted. We shall,
therefore, devote but fev remarks to the case.
The Constitution of the United States, art. 1, sect. 8, gives
to Congress the power "to regulate commerce with foreign
nations, and among the several States, and with the Indian
tribes."
That the provisions of this act are regulations of both -foreign
and inter-state commerce is a proposition which requires no
argument to support it. They are a clog and a blow to all
such commerce in the port to which they relate. Their enactment involved a power which belongs exclusively to Congress,
and which a State could not, thefefore, properly exercise. In
Steamship Company v. Port Wardens, 6 Wall. 81, it Was held
that a statute of a State* enacting that the master and wardens of a port within it should be entitled to demand and
receive, in addition to other fees, the sum of five dollars,
whether called on to perform service or not, for every vessel
arriving in that port, was a regulation of commerce, and was
unconstitutional and void. Ifthe constitutional objection was
well taken there, a multo fortior;i is it-fatal here. The act is
not, in the sense of the Constitution, an inspection law. The
object of such laws is to certify the quantity and value of the
articles inspected, whether imports or exports, for the protection of buyers and consumers. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 203;
Brown v. Maryland,12 id. 419; Clintsman v. , orthrup,'8 Cow.
46 ; Bouv. Law Dict. "Inspection;" Story's Const. sects. 1017.
1024; Neilson v. Garza, 2 Woods, 290. The purpose of this
act is to furnish official evidnbe for the parties immediately
concerned, and, where the goods are .damaged, to provide for
and regulate their sale. Master and Wardens v. iShip Hawes,
6 La. Ann. S90.
Besides the unreason and the oppressive character of the

Ex PARTE JORDAN.

[Sup. Ct.

act as regards ship-owners and consignees, it is an invasion of
the rights of persons outside of these classes. If such a monopoly, sustained by such sanctions, may be validly given to the
master and wardens, why may they not also, at prices not
agreed upon by the parties, nor according to the market value,
but at rates arbitrarily fixed by law, be authorized exclusively
to load and unload ships, to furnish them with all needful supplies, and to perform all the services of consignees, commission
merchants, and ship-brokers, touching incoming and outgoing
cargoes ? Each of these imagined cases is a parallelism to the
case before us, and only another step in the same direction.
We hold the statute to be void.
In expressing these views, we have no purpose to impugn
any thing heretofore said by this court as to the power of the
States to establish inspection, quarantine, health, and other
regulations, within the sphere of their acknowledged authority.
The constitutional validity of such regulations is as clear as the
power of Congress to establish regulations of commerce. It is
no objection to the former that both operate upon the same
subject. Gilman v. Philadelphia, 3 Wall. 713; Ex parte
McNeil, 13 id. 236.
Judgment reversed, and the cause remanded with directions to
dismiss the petition.

Ex PARTE JORDANV.
Subsequently to a decree pro confesso, additional parties were, by leave of the
court, permitted to intervene as defendants, in the same manner and with like
effect as if named in the original and supplemental bills. The case was then
referred to a master, who computed, ascertained, and reported the amount of
indebtedness, &c.; whereupon the court, after finding certain facts and overruling the exceptions of such intervening parties to his report, passed a final
decree, but denied their right t; an appeal therefrom. Held, 1. That they had
that right. 2. That, to enforce it, a mandamus lies from this court.
APPLICATION

for a mandamus to the Circuit Court of the

United States for the Southern District of New York, to
compel the allowance of an appeal from its. decision.
The New York, Oswego, and Midland Railroad Company,

