CrIM V. HANDLEY.

CRf

[Sup. ot.

v. HANDLEY.

1. The court affirms the doctrine announced in Hendrickson v. Hinckley, 17 How.
443, that a court of equity will not enjoin a judgment at law, unless the
proof clearly shows that the defendant had a just defence, of which he could
not avail himself at law, or to which, if available, he was prevented from
resorting, by fraud or unavoidable accident, unmixed with any fault or neg
ligence in himself or his agents.
2. Absence of one of the counsel employed to conduct his defence in a suit at
law does not furnish ground for equitable relief, where it appears that the
defendant, had he been present at the trial, might have employed other
counsel equally competent; nor does the-fact that a witness upon whom he
relied was so sick during his examination as to impair his recollectin of
facts within his knowledge. Having failed to ask a postponement or a continuance, he cannot go into equity and claim to have the judgment enjoined.
3. Nor will such relief be granted because the record of a prior suit upon which
the defendant relied was lost, or could not be found by the clerk of the
court. The loss of the record, and an unsuccessful search for it, presented
a good cause for a continuance. Proof of its contents was also available
under such circumstances as secondary evidence.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Georgia.
Handley, on the 14th of April, 1873, brought suit in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
Georgia against Crim and Peeples, surviving partners of King,
Crim, & Co., on four promissory notes, executed by the firm to
Buffington & Co.
The defence was payment. Peeples also pleaded his discharge in bankruptcy.
When the case was called, no motion was made for a continuance. The evidence offered by the defendants was admitted at the trial without objection, no charge to the jury was
asked, and there is, consequently, no bill of exceptions.
The'defendants offered in evidence sundry receipts showing
payments.
Harper, the attorney in whose hands Buffington & Co. had
placed these notes, and Crim and Peeples, the defendants, were
witnesses, and testified as to the alleged payments.
Upon this evidence the .zase was submitted, and it resulted in
a verdict and a judgment for $3,154.21 against Crim. Peeples
was discharged, on the plea of bankruptcy.
Crim then moved for a new trial, on grounds which do not

Oct. 1876.]

CRIM V. HANDLEY.

appear. The motion was denied. He then filed his bill for
an injunction and a new trial, all the allegations of which,
in support of the relief prayed for, were fully answered and
denied; and the case was heard in August, 1878, when the
injunction was denied. No decision was made on the demurrer,
which was also filed, but the bill was retained, for the purpose
of being heard at the next term.
Testimony was taken by Crim to sustain his allegation that
the notes had been paid, and the principal witnesses were again
he, Peeples, and Harper.
The chief grounds relied on by Crim for the intervention of
equity were, first, that a certain record in a proceeding on the
equity side of one of the State courts, alleged to have an important bearing on the question of payment, could not be found by
the clerk of that court up to the time of trial; second, that
Peeples, when testifying in the common-lawv case, was not in a
condition of mind to tell all he knew and to speak truly. In
support of this latter ground, Peeples swears that, two or three
days before the trial, he had been seriously ill; had not slept
scarcely any for three nights; had taken opium freely; and at
the time he testified was in such bad condition that he could
not remember the facts in the case. He swears that in another
trial he will testify to sundry payments amounting to $3,251.
Upon a final hearing the bill was dismissed,.and Crim. appealed to this court.
Hr. B. F. jon for the appellant.
Mr. Plilip Phillips and MI. .F 1H. Pillips for the appellee.
Mr. JUsTicE CLiFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Courts of equity will not enjoin judgments at law, unless the
complainant has an equitable defence to the cause pf action of
which he could not avail himself at law, because it did not.
amount to a legal defence; or where he had a good defence at
law, of which he was prevented from availing himself by fraud
or accident, unmixed with negligence of himself or 'his agents.
Hendriekson v.'H.Yinclcley, 17 How. 443.
Where a*party has failed to make a proper defence through'
negligence, a court of equity will not enjoin the judgment; but
where it appears that such a defence has been prevented by

ORIM V. HANDLEY.

[Sup. Ct,

fraud or accident, without fault of the losing party, a court of
equity may grant relief, if the proofs are satisfactory. Hungerford v. Sigerson, 20 id. 161.
Sufficient appears to show that goods of great value were
owned by the mercantile firm of J. W. Buffington & Co., and
that they, on the first day of February, 1866, sold the same to
the firm of King, Crim, & Co., William Peeples, one of the old
firm, entering into the new firm which made the purchase.
Payment of the price was made at the time of the purchase,
less $4,591.64, for which the purchasing firm gave to the vendols four promissory notes, payable to the creditor firm or bearer,
on the first days of April, May, June, and July next ensuing,
with interest. Debts of the old firm were still outstanding, for
which Peeples, of the new firm, was liable; and for his security
the four notes given by the new firm were deposited in the
hands of a third person, with the understanding that the depositary was to hold the notes for that purpose, so that, when
the debts of the old firm were presented, they might be paid by
'Peeples or the new firm, and in that event the amounts paid
were to be credited on the notes in the hands of the depositary.
Subsisting liabilities of the old firm were presented for payment, and were paid by Peeples, of the new firm; but the
record shows that controversy arose respecting the same, and
that the depositary of the notes refused to allow the credits to
1e' made on the notes, pursuant to the original understanding.
Instead of that, he caused one of the notes to be put in suit to
enforce payment of the same. Pending that suit, the new firm
brought a bill in equity against the depositary and the old firm,
to compel the respondents to carry the understanding into
effect. What they prayed was, that the payinents thus made
should be indorsed on those notes, and they also claimed a
credit for worthless cotton-seed sold to them when they purchased the stock of goods of the old firm.
Litigation ensued ; but, in the view taken of the case, it will
not be necessary to enter very fully into those details. Suits
of garnishment were also instituted in behalf of the creditors
of the old firm against the depositary of the notes; and during
their pendency the notes were placed in the hands of certain
attorneys, with directions that the iiotes be put in suit in the

Oct. 1876.]

ORIM V. HANDLEY.

name of the agent of the creditors prosecuting the suits of garnishment. Pursuant to those directions, the agent, James M.
Handley, on the 14th of April, 1873, sued the appellant and
Peeples, as surviving partners of the new firm which gave the
notes, counting on those notes as indorsee against the makers.
Service was made; and the defendants appeared and set up
the following defences : 1. That they never promised. 2. Payment before the suit was instituted. 3. Payment to the payees, and due notice to the indorsee and holder. 4. That the
notes wbre given for a stock of goods, part of which consisted
of a lot of cotton-seed warranted sound, which proved to be
unsound and worthless. 5. Prior recovery against the defendants to the extent of their liability in the garnishment suits,
and the full payment of the amount so recovered. 6. Subsequent sale of the stock of goods to another firm for an amount
greatly in excess of what was due on the notes, the purchasers,
with the consent of the firm, agreeing to assume and pay what
was unpaid on those notes.
Peeples also filed a separate plea, in which he alleged that he
had previously been adjudged a bankrupt by the District Court.
Taken as a whole, it must be admitted that the pleadings
fully and clearly present every matter in issue between the
parties. Both parties appeared on a subsequent day, and they
went to trial, the record showing that the verdict as against the
appellant was for the plaintiff in the sum of $3,154.21, and in
favor of the other defendant, under his plea that he had been
-duly adjudged a bankrupt. Judgment was accordingly rendered
for the plaintiff, and the present appellant filed a motion for
new trial. Before the motion came to a hearing, the defendant,
with the consent of the plaintiff, filed a statement of the evidence introduced in the case, which was also approved by the
presiding justice, as exhibited in the record.
Eno-ugh appears in that statement to show that evidence was
introduced in support of all the issues presented in the pleadings, and that the error, if any, must have been committed by
the jury. For aught that appears to the contrary, it must-be
assumed that all the evidence offered by the defendant was
admitted; and the record does not show that any evidence
offered by the plaintiff was admitted to'which the defendant

CRIM v. HANDLEY.

[SUP.

CL

objected. Nothing appears to show any irregularity in the
trial; and neither party filed any exceptions to the charge of
the court, or to any ruling of the court, in refusing to instruct
the jury as requested.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, it is clear that the
record furnishes no ground whatever to suppose that the defendant did not enjoy every right which belongs to a litigant
party, without diminution or restriction. Where no exceptions
are taken during the trial, the presumption must be that the
rulings of the court were correct; and that presumption in this
case is confirmed by the fact that no complaint in that regard
is made in the statement filed as the foundation of the motion
for new trial. By the allegations of the bill of complaint, it
appears that such a motion was made and denied before the
present bill of complaint was filed, which yrurports to seek
relief for the complainant upon grounds "algbve and beyond
what was considered by the court of law in the former
motion."
Prefaced by that statement, the complainant proceeds to
state the grounds for the relief, which, as he alleges, exist to
support the present application for an injunction and new trial.
Briefly stated, they are as follows: 1. That the verdict of the
jury is unjust and inequitable, for the reasons that the credits
which he claimed were not allowed. - 2. That he was misled at
the trial and his defence "demoralized" by the failure of recollection on the part of his principal witness, who knew all the
facts required to establish the same; that, when the witness
was called to testify, he became confused, and that his recollection- deserted him to such an extent that he did not know to
what he was'testifying; that the forgetfulness and confusion
of the witness arose, as the complainant is advised, from severe
-pain and the effect of opiates previously taken to relieve the
painful disease with which he was afflicted; and that the consequent inability of the witness to testify to the facts within
his knowledge was a complete surprise to the complainant and
his counsel. 3. That one of his counsel unexpectedly failed to
be present at the trial. 4. That he was unable to procure, as
evidence on the trial of the case, the pleadings, proceedings,
and decree in an equity suit previously heard and determined

Oct. 1876.]

CRIM V. HANDLEY.

in the State court, which were material to his defence, and for
which he made diligent search without success.
Certain other grounds of relief are also alleged in the bill of
complaint, which need not be reproduced, as they do not appear
to give much additional weight to the application.
Two of the respondents appeared and filed separate answers.
Most or all of the material matters alleged in the bill, of complaint are denied in the answers, which renders it unnecessary
to enter into any preliminary comparison of the allegatiois of
the former with those of the latter.
Credits to considerable extent must have been allowed, as is
obvious from a comparison of the verdict with the aggregate
amount of the notes and interest. More was claimed by the
defendants than was allowed, and all experience shows that a
losing party is seldom satisfied when his demand or set-off is
reduced by the tribunal appointed to determine its amount.
Parties in suits at common law, where the value in controversy exceeds $20, are entitled to a triar by jury; but the same
amendment to the Constitution provides that no fact tried by
a jury shall be otherwise re-examined in any court of the United
States than according to the rules of the common law. Two
modes only were known to the common law for the examination
of facts once tried by a jury; to wit, the granting of a new trial
by the court where the issue was tried or to which the record
was returnable, or by the award of a venire facias de novo from
the appellate court for some error of law in the proceedings.
Parsonsv. Bedford, 3. Pet. 448 ; 2-Story, Const. (3d ed.) -584;
Insurance Company v: Comstoc7c, 16- Wall. 269.
All suits not of equity or admiralty cognizance are embraced
in that provision, and subject to its control. By its terms it is
applicable only to common-law suits, and, of course, does not
conflict with the rule before stated, that courts of equity may
exercise jurisdiction.to enjoin a judgment or to grant the injured party a new trial, in a case where the proof is clear, td
show that:it would be inequitable and against conscience to
execute it; as where it appears that,the injured party has an
equitable defence of, which he could not avail himself in the
suit at'law, or if it appears that the defence could be made at
law, but that he was prevented from making it by fraud or
VOL. IV.

42

CRIM V. HANDLEY.

[Sup. Ct,

unavoidable accident, unmixed with any fault or negligence in
himself or his agents. Truly v. Wanzer, 5 How. 142; 2 Story,
Eq. (9th ed.) sect. 887.
Difficulty -would attend any attempt to prescribe a rule which
will apply in all cases; but it is safe to affirm that equity may
exercise jurisdiction in such a case, where the evidence clearly
shows that it would be against conscience to execute the judgment, because the injured party had a just defence of which he
could not avail himself in the suit at law, or of which he might
have availed himself at law, but was prevented from so doing
by fraud or unavoidable accident, unmixed with any fault or
negligence in himself or his agents. Insurance Company v.
Hodgson, 7 Cranch, 336.
On the other hand, said Marshall, C. J., it may with equal
safety be laid down as a general rule that a defence cannot be
set up in equity which has been fully and fairly tried at law,
although it may be the opinion of the court that the defence in
the suit at law ought to have been sustained. Walker v. Bobbins, 14 How. 585; Creak v. Sims, 5 id. 204; Sample v. Barnes,
14 id. 73.
Where, pending a suit in the Circuit Court against a surety,
judgment was recovered against him in a State court for the
same cause of action, and he paid the whole amount before
judgment wa- rendered in the Circuit Court, the judgment
rendered in the Circuit Court was properly enjoined, it appearing that the surety tendered the defence of antecedent payment
puis darrein continuance, and that the court refused to admit
the defence. Leggett v. .umhreys, 21 How. 71; umphreys
v. Leggett, 9 id. 313.
Frequent applications to enjoin judgments were made in
equity, before the practice of awarding new trials was introduced
into the courts of common law. Until the practice of granting
new trials in courts of law was introduced, every reason existed
why equitable relief should be afforded; but as the courts of
law now exercise that power very liberally, especially in case
of fraud or unavoidable accident, a resort to equity is- seldom
necessary or successful. 3 Lead. Cas. (3d ed.) 190; Bailroad
v. Xeal, 1 Wood's C. C. 353.
Relief in equity may be granted in case of fraud or collusion

Ot. 1876.]

CRIM V. HANDLEY.

but it -will not be granted in other cases, unless it clearly ap
pears that to allow the judgment to be executed would be contrary to equity and good conscience, and that the facts which
render it inequit~ble were unavailable as a defence in the action
in which the judgment was recovered, without any fault or negligence of the losing party. Clute v. Potter, 37 Barb. 199;
Burton v. Wiley, 26 Vt. 432 ; Carringtonv. Holabird,17 Conn.
637; Kerr on Inj. 22; Simpson v. Hart, 1 Johns. Ch. 98.
Absence of one of the counsel employed by the party furnishes no ground for equitable relief in this case, in view of the
circumstances, as it does not appear that the party, if he had
been present, might not, have employed another equally competent to conduct the defence. Nor does the allegation that
one of his witnesses was sick during the examination, that it
impaired his recollection and rendered him incapable of stating
material facts within his knowledge, afford any sufficient support to the present application. Accidents of the kind occasionally occur in the.eourse of trial; but the plain remedy for
such an embarrassment is an application to the dourt to postpone the trial or to continue the case, as the circumstances may
require. Applications of the kind, if well founded, are seldom
or never refused; but if a party elects to proceed and take his
chance of success, he cannot, if the verdict ani. judgment are
against him, go into equity, ahd claim to have the judgment enjoined. If a witness is too unwell to testify understandingly,
the proper remedy for the party is to move for a postponement'
of the trial; and, if he elects to proceed and is unsuccessful, his
only remedy is a motion for new trial to the court where the
accident occurred.
Suppose that is so, still it is insisted by the complainant that
the allegations of the bill of complaint, that he was unable to
procure an exemplified copy of the record in the prior described
suit, if sustained by proof, are adequate to show that the judgment here in question should be enjoined; but there are two
answers to that proposition, either of which is sufficient to
show that the proposition is not well founded: 1. Because the
loss of the record and the inability of the clerk to find it were
a good cause for a continuance, if duly presented and supported
by an affidavit in due form. 2. Because it -was a case where

COUNTY OF DALLAS V. MACKENZIE.

[Sup. Ct.

secondary evidence was properly admissible, the party first
proving loss and due unsuccessful search.
Nor is it any proper answer to that suggestion to say that
the counsel present could not prove the contents of the record.
Both the counsel and party knew at the commencement of the
suit that the record in question would be material evidence for
the defendant; and, if his counsel was unable to testify as to its
contents, the defendant should have attended the trial himself,
or have summoned the clerk, or some other person having the
requisite knowledge. Accidents of the kind usually find a
remedy in an application to the discretion of the court for a
postponement of the case, or parol proof of contents, or, in case
the trial proceeds and a verdict follows, by a motion for new
trial at common law.
Due proof of loss, unsuccessful search, and proof of contents,
would have been as available for the defendant as an exemplified copy of the record; and, in the absence of any proof of
proper diligence in that regard, it is clear that he shows no
ground whatever for equitable interference in his behalf.
Suffice it to say, without remarking upon the other causes
assigned why relief should be granted, that they must all be
overruled, for some one or more of the reasons given for overruling those already specifically named.
Decree affirmed.

COUNTYOF DALLAS V. MACKENZIE.
I. Under the Code of Practice of Missouri, if any one of the defences set up in
the answer is a bar to the plaintiff's right to recover, a demurrer to tie
whole answer must be overruled.
2. A county in Missouri. sued on -certain coupons attached to bonds alleged to
have been issued by it, denied in its answer the plaintiff's ownership for
value; and, for a further defence, averred that no orders authorizing the
issue of such bonds were ever made by the proper county court, btit that
"twD of the justices thereof fraudulently and corruptly, but not as a court,
made a certain other order, upon conditions which were not complied witlL
It further averred that such bonds were iaudulently and corruptly issued,
and without authority. No copy of the bonds was filed with the plaintiff's
complaint. The plaintiff demurred to the answer. Held,that the demurrer
must be overruled.

