COUNTY OF DALLAS V. MACKENZIE.

[Sup. Ct.

secondary evidence was properly admissible, the party first
proving loss and due unsuccessful search.
Nor is it any proper answer to that suggestion to say that
the counsel present could not prove the contents of the record.
Both the counsel and party knew at the commencement of the
suit that the record in question would be material evidence for
the defendant; and, if his counsel was unable to testify as to its
contents, the defendant should have attended the trial himself,
or have summoned the clerk, or some other person having the
requisite knowledge. Accidents of the kind usually find a
remedy in an application to the discretion of the court for a
postponement of the case, or parol proof of contents, or, in case
the trial proceeds and a verdict follows, by a motion for new
trial at common law.
Due proof of loss, unsuccessful search, and proof of contents,
would have been as available for the defendant as an exemplified copy of the record; and, in the absence of any proof of
proper diligence in that regard, it is clear that he shows no
ground whatever for equitable interference in his behalf.
Suffice it to say, without remarking upon the other causes
assigned why relief should be granted, that they must all be
overruled, for some one or more of the reasons given for overruling those already specifically named.
Decree affirmed.

COUNTYOF DALLAS V. MACKENZIE.
I. Under the Code of Practice of Missouri, if any one of the defences set up in
the answer is a bar to the plaintiff's right to recover, a demurrer to tie
whole answer must be overruled.
2. A county in Missouri. sued on -certain coupons attached to bonds alleged to
have been issued by it, denied in its answer the plaintiff's ownership for
value; and, for a further defence, averred that no orders authorizing the
issue of such bonds were ever made by the proper county court, btit that
"twD of the justices thereof fraudulently and corruptly, but not as a court,
made a certain other order, upon conditions which were not complied witlL
It further averred that such bonds were iaudulently and corruptly issued,
and without authority. No copy of the bonds was filed with the plaintiff's
complaint. The plaintiff demurred to the answer. Held,that the demurrer
must be overruled.

Oct. 1876.]

COUNTY OF DALLAS V. MAOKENZIE.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Missouri.
This is an action brought by the defendant in error to recover on certain coupons attached to bonds alleged by him to
have been issued by the county of Dallas, in the State of Missouri. The pleadings upon which the question of law decided
by this court arose are set forth in the opinion.
ATr. Tilliam Patrick for the plaintiff in error.
.1i.T. C. Pletcher, contra.
MR. JUSTICE HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes before the court upon a demurrer to the
answer.
In his complaint, the plaintiff alleged that the defendant
issued certain bonds, by which it promised to pay 'to the
Laclede and Fort Scott Railroad Company the sums named,
pursuant to an order of the county court; that the bonds recited that they were issued pursuant to an order of the county
court of Dallas County, made on the 18th of May, 1871, and
amended on the nineteenth day of June and the twelfth day of
August, of the same year, by authority granted in the charter
of said company, by an act approved Jan. 11, 1860 ; that he is
the owner for value and the bearer of certain coupons attached
to said bonds, and entitled to recover the amount thereof, by
reason of which he avers an indebtedness to him in the' sum
of $3,800 with interest fr-om the various dates mentioned.
To this the defendant answers,' denying that it promised to
pay the bonds as in the complaint is alleged, denying that by
its writings or coupons it promised to pay the different sums
therein specifically set forth, and denying that the plaintiff
was the owner for value of the coupons sued for.
The answer, for a further defence, avers that the bonds referred to recite that they were issued pursuant to certain orders
of the county court of Dallas County (which are of the dates
specified in the'complaint), and avers that no orders authorizing the issue of such bonds were ever made by the said county
court as so recited, but that two of the justices of said court,
fraudulently and corruptly, but not as a court, made a- certain
other order set forth, but upon conditions which were not com-

COUNTY OF DALLAS V. MACOENZIE.

[Sup. Ct.

plied with. It is further averred that said bonds were fraudulently and corruptly issued, and without authority, and that
at the date of said issue the annual assessment of the county of
Dallas was less than $1,500,000, and the county had already
subscribed to the capital of said railroad the sum of $150,000.
To this answer the plaintiff demurred, upon the following
grounds :
1. That it did not state facts sufficient to constitute a
defence.
2. That its admissions were sufficient tq. entitle plaintiff to
recover.
8. That its denials were inconsistent with its admissions.
4. That it was not necessary to file the bonds, the coupons
being filed in the court.
5. That plaintiff being the bearer of the coupons is sufficient,
and ownership being immaterial.
6. That the authority of the court to issue the bonds under
the special law incorporating the Laclede and Fort Scott Railroad Company is not denied.
7. That it admits their issue, and does not deny the authority
to issue them, recited in them.
8. The bonds on their face import a compliance with the
law, and defendant is estopped from denying the regularity of
such compliance.
9. It does not charge plaintiff with knowledge of any of the
alleged frauds in the issue of the bonds.
The derurrer was sustained, and judgment rendered for the
plaintiff. The defendant thereupon sued out this writ of error.
The demurrer is general to the whole answer. The answer
is interposed under a system of pleading which allows numerous
and inconsistent defences. If, therefore, the answer contains
any good defence, the demurrer must be overruled.
The complaint gives no copy of the bonds. It simply says
that they were issued to a railroad company named, and that
they recited that they were issued pursuant to an order of the
county court of Dallas County, made on the eighteenth day of
May, 1871, and amended on the nineteenth day of June and
on the 12th of August, of the same year, and that this was by
authority granted in the charter of the railroad mentioned.

Oct. 1876.]

COUNTY OF DALLAS V. MACKENZIE.

In this statement are involved two fundamental propositions:
1st, That the charter of the company gave authority to the
county to subscribe; and, 2d, that the county exercised that
authority. Both of these averments are jurisdictional, and if
either does not exist, no bonds can legally issue. The first is a
question of law to be ascertained by a reference to the statute.
The second is a matter of fact to be determined upon the
pleadings or the proofs. "It shall be lawfulfor the county court
of any county in the State to subscribe to the capital stock
of said company." Acts of Mo., 1859, 1860, p. 434, sect. 14.
This is not a self-executing power. It is an authority to the
county, and, until affirmatively acted upon, possesses no more
force than if it did not exist. The defendant in its answer
denies that this authority was exercised by the county at the
dates mentioned, or at any time. We think the plaintiff erred
in demurring to the answer and thus admitting that the county
court had never exercised its power. Smitk 'v. Sac County, 11
Wall. 139.
The plaintiff's case is not aided by the allegation that he is
a holder for value of the coupons. A holder for value is not
affected by any irregularities or frauds or umfounded assumption of authority on the part of the agent -of the town or
county. But good faith is unavailing where here is an entire
If A. forge the
want of authority in those who profess to ac
name of B. to a promissory note, or without any authority A.
sign a note as his agent, and there be no ratification, no amount
of good faith in the holder will enable him to recover upon it.
Good faith to the person who does not authorize the"use of his
name requires that he should be protected against a holder
who pays his money for a forged or unauthorized note.
And again, the answer expressly denies that the plaintiff is
a holder for value of the coupons. The language is, that it
"denies that plaintiff was at the institution of this action, or
now is, the owner for value of any of the bonds or coupons ill
said petition declared on." Instead of meeting this allegation
by an issue of fact, the plaintiff by demurring admits its truth;
and we do not see how, upon the pleadings, he can be deemed
a holder for value. There are other questions in the case, on
which wo do not think it liecessary to pass.

GUNN V. PLANT.

[Sup Ct.

The judgment must be reversed, and the cause remanded to
the Circuit Court with directions to enter judgment upon the
demurrer for the defendant below, unless the plaintiff below
shall withdraw his demurrer and proceed to trial, within such
time and upon such terms as the Circuit Court may direct;
So ordered.
and it is

G---

v. PLANT.

1. In Georgia, the omission to record the verdict upon which the judgment was
rendered does not deprive the plaintiff of his lien upon the real estate of
the defendant.
2. A judgment duly entered by a court having jurisdiction of the parties, and
of the subject-matter in controversy, is, notwithstanding irregularities in
matters of form, binding, until set aside or reversed.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Georgia.
This is a bill in equity, filed Jan. 12, 1872, by I. C. Plant &
Son, against Joseph E. Murray, trustee in bankruptcy of James
H. Woolfolk, bankrupt, and Daniel F. Gunn, guardian, to restrain Murray, the trustee, from applying money in his hands
arising from the sale of certain lands of the bankrupt to the
payment of a judgment in favor of Gunn, and asking that a
debt in their favor, secured by a mortgage upon the lands sold,
and for which they had obtained a decree of foreclosure and
sale at the October Term, 1869, of the Jones County Superior
Court, be paid in preference. The bill also asks, that, if the
judgment of Gunn is found to be valid, and a lien upon the
property superior to their mortgage, he may be compelled to
exhaust other lands bound for the payment of the judgment
before resorting to the fund.
The bill, after stating the mortgage to the complainants,
bearing date Dec. 7, 1868, and the sale-of the property by the
trustee, proceeds as follows: -

"And your orators state that the said Daniel F. Gunn, guardian,
claims that the moneys . . . should be applied toward the payment

of a judgment obtained by him at the November Term, 1866, of the

