Oct. 1876.]

CROMWELL V. COUNTY OF SAC.

OMWELL V.CoU=

OF SAC.

1. The difference between the effect of a judgment as a bar or estoppel against
the prosecution of a second acti6n upon the same claim or demand, and its
effect as an estoppel in another action between the same parties upon a different claim or cause of action, stated. In the former case, the judgment,
if rendered upon the merits, constitutes an absolute bar to a subsequent
action. It is a finality as to the claim or demand in controversy, concluding:
parties and those in privity with them, not only as to every matter which,
was offered and received to sustain or defeat the claim or demand, but as to!
any other admissible matter which might have been offered for that purpose.
But where the second action between the same parties is upon a different
claim or demand, the judgment in the prior action operates as an estoppel
only as to those matters in issue or points controverted, upon the determination of which the finding or verdict was rendered.
2. In an action against a county in Iowa upon certain interest coupons originally
attached to bonds issued by the county for the erection of a court-house, it
was found and determined that the bonds were void as against the county
in the hands of parties who did not acquire them before maturity for value;
and, inasmuch as the plaintiff in that action had not proved that he had
given such value, it was adjudged that he was not entitled to recover.
Hedd, that the judgment did not estop the plaintiff, holding other bonds
of the same series, and other coupons attached to the same bonds as the
coupons in the original action, from showing, in a second action against
the county, that he acquired such other bonds and coupons for value before
maturity.
& The finding in one action that the plaintiff therein is the holder and owner
of certain coupons in suit does not estop the defendant from showing, in
another action, that such plaintiff prosecuted the first action for the use and
benefit of the plaintiff in the second action. The finding only establishes
the fact that such plaintiff held the legal title to the coupons, which was
sufficient for the purpose of the action, and was not inconsistent with an
equitable and beneficial interest in another.

ERBoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.
The action was on certain bonds and coupons thereto attached, issued by the county of Sac, in the State of Iowa.
The facts are sufficiently stated in the opinion of the court.
The defendant obtained judgment, and the plaintiff brought the
case here.
Mr. John N. Rogers for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. GalushaParsons,contra.

AIR. JUSTICE FIEMD delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action on four bonds of the county of Sac, in

352

CROMWELL V. COUNTY OF SAC.

[Sup. Ct.

the State of Iowa, each for $1,000, and four coupons for
interest, attached to them, each for $100. The bonds were
issued in 1860, and were made payable to bearer, in the
city of New York, in the years 1868, 1869, 1870, and 1871,
respectively, with annual interest at the rate of ten per cent
a year.
To defeat this action, the defendant relied upon the estoppel
of a judgment rendered in favor of the county in a prior action
brought by one Samuel C. Smith upon certain earlier maturing
coupons on the same bonds, accompanied with proof that the
plaintiff Cromwell was at the time the owner of the coupons
in that action, and that the action was prosecuted for his sole
use and benefit.
The questions presented for our determination relate to the
operation of this judgment as an estoppel against the prosecution of the present action, and the admissibility of the evidence
to connect the present plaintiff with the former action as a real
party in interest.
In considering the operation of this judgment, it should be
borne in mind, as stated by counsel, that there is a difference
between the effect of a judgment as a bar or estoppel against
the prosecution of a second action upon the same claim or demand, and its effect as an estoppel in another action between the
same parties upon a different claim or cause of action. In the
former case, the judgment, if rendered upon the merits, constitutes an absolute bar to a subsequent action. It is a finality as
to the claim or demand in controversy, concluding parties and
those in privity with them, not only as to every matter which
was offered and received to sustain or defeat the claim or demand, but as to any other admissible matter which might have
been offered for that purpose. Thus, for example, a judgment
rendered upon a promissory note is conclusive as to the validity
of the instrument and the amount due upon it, although it be
subsequently alleged that perfect defences actually existed, of
which no proof was offered, such as forgery, want of consideration, or payment. If such defences were not presented in the
action, and established by competent evidence, the subsequent
allegation of their existence is of no legal consequence. The
judgment is as conclusive, so far as future proceedings at law

Oct. 1876.]

CROMWELL V. COUNTY OF SAC.

are concerned, as though the defences never existed. The
language, therefore, which is so often used, that a judgment
estops not only as to every ground of recovery or defence actually presented in the action, but also as to every ground which
might have been presented, is strictly accurate, when applied to
the demand or claim in controversy. Such demand or claim,
having passed into judgment, cannot again be brought into litigation between the parties in proceedings at law upon any
ground whatever.
But where the second action between the same parties is
upon a different claim or demand, the judgment in the prior
action operates as an estoppel only as to those matters in issue
or points controverted, upon the determination of which the
finding or verdict was rendered. In all cases, therefore, where
it is sought to apply the estoppel of a judgment rendered upon
one cause of action to matters arising in a suit upon a different
cause of action, the inquiry must always be as to the point or
question actually litigated and determined in the original
action, not what might have been thus litigated and determined. Only upon such matters is the judgment conclusive in
another action.
The difference in the operation of a judgment in the two
classes of cases mentioned is seen through all the leading
adjudications upon the doctrine of estoppel: Thus, in the case
of Outram v. 1orewood, 8 East, 846, the defendants were held
estopped from averring title to a mine, in an action of trespass
for digging out coal from it; because, in a previous action for a
similar trespass, they had set up the same title, and it had been
determined against them. In commenting upon a decision
cited in that case, Lord Ellenborough, in his elaborate opinion,
said: "It is not the recovery, but the matter alleged by the
party, and upon which the recovery proceeds, which creates
the estoppel. The recovery of itself in an action of trespass is
only a bar to the future recovery of damages for the same
injury; but the estoppel precludes parties and privies from
contending to the contrary of that point or matter of fact,
which, having been once distinctly put in issue by them, or by
those to whom they are privy in estate or law, has been, on
such issue joined, solemnly found against them." And in the
voL. iv.

23

CROMWELL V. COUNTY OF SAC.

[Sup. or.

case of Gardner v. Buekbee, 8 Cowen, 120, it was held by the
Supreme Court of New York that a verdict and judgment in
the Marine Court of the ci& of New York, upon one of two
notes given upon a sale of a vessel, that the sale was fraudulent, the vessel being at the time unseaworthy, were conclusive
upon the question of the character of the sale in an action
upon the other note between the same parties in the Court of
Common Pleas. The rule laid down in the celebrated opinion
in the case of the Duchess of Kingston was cited, and followed: "That the judgment of a court of concurrent jurisdic-.
tion directly upon the point is as a plea a bar, or as evidence
conclusive between the same parties upon the same matter
directly in question in another court."
These cases, usually cited in support of the doctrine that the
determination of a question directly involved in one action is
conclusive as to that question in a second suit between the
same parties upon a different cause of action, negative the
proposition that the estoppel can extend beyond the point
actually litigated and determined. The argument in these
cases, that a particular point was necessarily involved in the
finding in the original action, proceeded upon the theory that,
if not thus involved, the judgment would be inoperative as an
estoppel. In the case of Mites v. Caldwell, reported in the
2d of Wallace, a judgment in ejectment in Missouri, where
actions of that kind stand, with respect to the operation of a
recovery therein, as a bar or estoppel, in the same position as
other actions, was held by this court conclusive, in a subsequent
suit in equity between the parties respecting the title, upon
the question of the satisfaction of the mortgage under which
the plaintiff claimed title to the premises in the ejectment,
and the question as to the fraudulent character of the mortgage
under which the defendant claimed, because thise questions
had been submitted to the jury in that action, and had b6en
passed upon by them. The court held, after full consideration,
that in cases of tort, equally as in those arising upon contract,
where the form of the issue was .so vague as not to 'show the
questions of fact submitted to the jury, it was competent to
prove by parol testimony what question or questions of fact
were thus submitted and necessarily passed upon by them; and

Oct. 1876.]

CROMWELL

V. COUNTY OF SAC.

355

by inevitable implication also held that, in the absence of proof
in such cases, the verdict and judgment were inconclusive,
except as to the particular trespass alleged, whatever possible
questions might have been raised and determined.
But it is not necessary to take this doctrine as a matter of
inference from these cases. The precise point has been adjudged in numerous instances. It was so adjudged by this
court in the case of The Washington, Alexandria, & Georgetown Steam Packet Co. v. Sickles, reported in the 24th of

Howard. In that case, an action was brought upon a special
parol contract foi the use of Sickles's cut-off for saving fuel in
the working of steam-engines, by which the plaintiffs, who had
a patent for the cut-off, were to attach one of their machines to
the engine of the defendants' boat, and were to receive for its use
three-fourths of the saving of fuel thus produced, the payments
to be made from time to time when demanded. To ascertain
the saving of fuel an experiment was to be made in a specified
manner, and the result taken as the rate of saving during the
continuance of the contract. The plaintiffs in their declaration averred that the experiment had been made, at the rate of
saving ascertained, and that the cut-off had been used on the
boat until the commencement of the suit. In a prior action

against the same defendant for an instalment due, where the
declaration set forth the same contract in two counts, the first
of which was similar to the counts in the second action, and
also the common counts, the plaintiffs had obtained verdict
and judgment; and it was insisted that the defendant was
estopped by the verdict and judgment produced fron proving

that there was no such contract as that declared upon, or that
no saving of fuel had been obtained, or that the experiment

was not made pursuant to the contract, or that the verdict was
rendered upon all the issues, and not upon the first count
specially. The Circuit Court assented to these views, and
excluded the testimony offered by the defendants to prove
those facts. But this court reversed the decision, and h ld that
the defendants were not thus estopped.
"The record produced by the plaintiffs," said the court,
"showed that the first suit was brought apparently upon the
same contract as'the second, and that the existence and validity

CROMWELL V. COUNTY OF SAC.

[Sup. Ot,

of that contract might have been litigated. But the verdict
might have been rendered upon the entire declaration, and
without special reference to the first count. It was competent
to the defendants to show the state of facts that existed at the
trial, with a view to ascertain what was the matter decided
upon by the verdict of the jury. It may have been that there
was no contest in reference to the fairness of the experiment,
or to its sufficiency to ascertain the premium to be paid for the
use of the machine at the first trial, or it may have been that
the plaintiffs abandoned their special counts and recovered
their verdict upon the general counts. The judgment rendered
in that suit, while it remains in force, and for the purpose of
maintaining its validity, is conclusive of all the facts properly
pleaded by the plaintiffs; but when it is presented as testimony
in another suit, the inquiry is competent whether the same issue
has been tried and settled by it."
It is not believed that there are any cases going to the extent
that because in the prior action a different question from that
actually determined might have arisen and been litigated,
therefore such possible question is to be considered as excluded
from consideration in a second action between the same parties
on a different dengnd, although loose remarks looking in that
direction may be found in some opinions. On principle, a point
not in litigation in one action cannot be received as conclusively
settled in any subsequent action upon a different cause, because
it might have been determined in the first action.
Various considerations, other than the actual merits, may
govern a party in bringing forward grounds of recovery or
defence in one action, which may not exist in another action
upon a different demand, such as the smallness of the amount
or the value of the property in controversy, the difficulty of
obtaining the necessary evidence, the expense of the litigation,
and his own situation at the time. A party acting upon considerations like these ought not to be precluded from contesting
in a subsequent action other demands arising out of the same
transaction. A judgmeft by default only admits for the purpose of the action the legality of the demand or claim in suit :
it does not make the allegations of the declaration or complaint
evidence in an action upon a different claim. The declaration

Oct. 1876.]

CROMWELL V. COUNTY OF SAC.

357

may contain different statements of the cause of action in
different counts. It could hardly be pretended that a judgment
by default in such a case would make the several statements
evidence in any other proceeding. Boyleau v. Butlin, 2 Exch.
665, 681; .kughesv. Alexander, 5 Duer, 493.
The case of Hfowlett v. Tarte, 10 C. B. Nv. s.813, supports this
view. Thatf was an action for rent, under a building agreement. The defendant pleaded a subsequent agreement, changing the tenancy into one from year to year, andits determination
by notice to quit before the time for which the rent sued for
was alleged to have accrued.' The plaintiff replied that he had
recovered a judgment in a former action against the defendant
for rent under the same agreement, which had accrued after the
alleged determination of the tenancy, in Which action the defendant did not set up the defence pleaded in the second action.
On demurrer, the replication, after full argument, was held bad.
In deciding the case,'Mr. Justice Willes said: "It is quite right
that a defendant should be estopped from setting up in the same
action a defence which he might have pleaded, but has chosen
to let the proper time go by. But nobody ever heard of a defendant being precluded from setting up a defence in a second
action because he did not avail himself of the opportunity of
setting it up in the first action. ... I think we should do

wrong to favor the introduction of this new device into the
law." Mr. Justice Byles said: "It is plain that there is no
authority for saying that the defendant is precluded from setting up this defence." Mr. Justice Keating said: "This is an,
attempt on the part of the plaintiff to extend the doctrine of
estoppel far beyond what any of the authorities warrant."
The language of the Vice-Chancellor, in the case of fenderson
v. Henderson, 3 Hare, 100, 115, is sometimes cited as expressing a different opinion; but, upon .examining the facts of that
case, it will appear that the language used in no respect conficts with the doctrine we have stated. In that case, a bill had
been filed in the Supreme Court of Newfoundland, by the next
of kin of an intestate, against A. and others, for an account of
an estate and of certain partnership transactions. A decree
was rendered against A., upon which the next of kin brought
actions in England. A. then fled a bill there against the nexi

CROMWELL v. COUNTY

OF SAC.

[Sup. O .

of kin and personal representative of the intestate, stating that
the intestate's estate was indebted to him, and alleging various
errors and irregularities in the proceedings in the Supreme Court
of the island, and praying that the estate of the intestate might
be administered, the partnership accounts taken, and the amount
of the debt due to him ascertained and paid. A demurrer to
the bill was allowed for want of equity, on the ground that the
whole of the matters were in question between the parties, and
might properly have been the subject of adjudication in the suit
before that court. It was with reference to the necessity of
having the subject of particular litigation, as a whole, at once
before the court, and not by piecemeal, that the Vice-Chancellor
said: -

"In trying this question, I believe I state the rule of court cor
rectly, that when a given matter becomes the subject of litigation
in and of adjudication by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
court requires the parties to bring forward their whole case, and
will not, except under special circumstances, permit the same parties to open the same subject of litigation in respect of matter
which might have been brought forward as part of the subject in
controversy, but which was not brought forward, only because they
have, from negligence, inadvertence, or even accident, omitted part
of the case. The plea of res adjudicata applies, except in special
cases, not only to the points upon which the court was required by
the parties to form an opinion, and pronounce a judgment, but to
every point which properly belonged to the subject of litigation,
and which the parties, exercising reasonable diligence, might have
brought forward at the time."
There is nothing in this language, applied to the facts of the
case, which gives support to the doctrine that, whenever in one
action a party might have brought forward a particular ground
of recovery or defence, and neglected to do so, he is, in a subsequent suit between the same parties upon a different cause of
action, precluded from availing himself of such ground.
If, now, we consider the main question presented fur our
determination by the light of the views thus expressed and the
authorities cited, its solution will not be difficult. It appears
from the findings in the original action of Smith, that the
county of Sac, by a vote of its people, authorized the issue of

Oct. 187t.]

CROMWELL V. COUNTY

OF SAC.

bonds to the amount of $10,000, for the erection of a courthouse; that bonds to that amount were issued by the county
judge, and delivered to one Meserey, with whom he had
made a contract for the erection of the court-house; that immediately upon receipt of the bonds the contractor gave one
of them as a gratuity to the county judge; and that the courthouse was never constructed by the contractor, or by any other
person pursuant to the contract. It also appears that the.
plaintiff had become, before their maturity, the holder of
twenty-five coupons, which had been attached to the bonds,
but there was no finding that'he had ever given any value, for
them. The court below held, upon these findings, that the
bonds were void as against the county, and gave judgment
accordingly. The case coming here on writ of error, this court
held that the facts disclosed by the findings were sufficient evidence of fraud and illegality in the inception of the bonds to
call upon the holder to show that he had given value for the
coupons; and, not having done so, the judgment was affirmned.
Reading the record of the lower court by the opinion and judgment of this court, it must be considered that the matters
adjudged in that case were these : that the bonds were void as
against the county in the hands of parties who did not acquire
them before maturity and give value for them, and that the
plaintiff, not having proved that he gave such value, was not
entitled to recover upon the coupons. Whatever illegality or
fraud there was in the issue and delivery to the contractor of
the bonds affected equally the coupons for interest attached to
them. The finding and judgment upon the invalidity of the
bonds, as against the county, must be held to estop the plaintiff
here from averring to the contrary. But as the bonds were,
negotiable instruments, and their issue was authorized by a vote
of the county, and they recite on their face a compliance with
the law providing for their issue, they would be held as valid
obligations against tlhe county in the hands of a bona fid,
holder taking them for value before maturity, according to
repeated decisions of this court upon the character of such obligations. If, therefore, the plaintiff received the bond and coupons in suit before maturity for value, as he offered to prove,
he should have been permitted to show that fact. There -was

CROMWELL V. COUNTY OF SAC.

[Sup. (Ct.

nothing adjudged in the former action in the finding that the
plaintiff had not made such proof in that case which can preclude the present plaintiff from making such proof here. The
fact that a party may not have shown that he gave value for
one bond or coupon is not even presumptive, much less conclusive, evidence that he may not have given value for another and
different bond or coupon. The exclusion of the evidence oftered by the plaintiff was erroneous, and for the ruling of the
court in that respect the judgment must be reversed and a new
trial had.
Upon the second question presented, we think the court
below ruled correctly. Evidence showing that the action of
Smith was brought for the sole use and benefit of the present
plaintiff was, in our judgment, admissible. The finding that
Smith was the holder and owner of the coupons in suit went
only to this extent, that he held the legal title to them, which
was sufficient for the purpose of the action, and was not inconsistent with an equitable and beneficial- interest in another.
Judgment reversed, and cause remanded for a new trial.
dissenting.
Ten bonds, each for the sum of 81,000, were issued by the
county for the purpose of erecting a court-house in the county
seat of the county; and it appears that the bonds were made
payable to bearer, one each succeeding year, till the whole were
paid, with interest at the rate of ten per cent per annum. Four
of the bonds are the subject of the present controversy, and
the defence is the estoppel of a prior judgment in favor of the
county in a suit brought to collect certain of the interest
warrants annexed to the bonds.
Sufficient appears to show that the bonds were in due form,
and that they contain the recital that they "were issued by
the county, in accordance with the vote of the legal voters
thereof, at a special election holden on the day therein mentioned, pursuant to a proclamation made by the county judge,
according to the statute of the State in such case made and
provided."
Annexed to the bonds were the coupons for the payment of
the annual interest, and the plaintiff in the prior suit, being
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD

Oct. 1876.]

ORO]IWELL v. COUNTY OF SAC.

the holder of twenty-five of the coupons, instituted the suit to
recover the amount, and he alleged in his detIaration that he
was the holder and owner of the same; that he received the
coupons in good faith before their maturity, and that he paid
value for the same at the time of the transfer; that the bonds
anid.coupons were issued by the county under and by virtue of
a legal and competent authority, and that the same are valid
and legal claims against the corporation.
Most of the allegations of the declaration were denied in the
answer; but the defendants did not specifically deny that
the plaintiff paid value for the coupons at the time he became
the holder and owner.
Special findings of the facts were made by the court, from
which it appears that the question whether a court-house should
be built, and whether a tax sufficient to liquidate the expense
should be levied, were duly submitted to the voters of the
county; that the propositions were adopted at a special election
held for the purpose; that the county judge made the contract
for the erection of the court-house; and that he duly executed
the ten bonds in question, and delivered the same to the contractor, in pursuance of the contract.
Proof of a satisfactory character was exhibited that the
contract between the judge and the contractor was made in
the county where the judge resided: but the court found that
the bonds were signed, sealed, and delivered by the judge
dcring his temporary absence in another county; and the findings show that the plaintiff became the owner and holder of
the coupons before niaturity and after the proceedings were
correctly entered in the minute-book; nor is it found that the
plaintiff had any notrice whatever of the supposed irregulariti&.
Evidence of fraud in the inception of the contract is entirely
wanting, except what may be inferred from the ifuexplained
fact that the contractor gave one of the bonds, as a gratuity,
to the county judge as soon as he delivered the same to the
contractor. Beyond all doubt, the contractor proved to be
unworthy, as he never performed his contract, or paid back the
consideration.
Judgment was rendered for the defendants in the court
below; and the majority of this court affirmed the judgment4

CROMWELL V. COUNTY OF SAC.

[Sup. Ct

holding that the evidence showed that the bonds - ere fraudulent in their inception, and that the plaintiff could not recover,
inasmuch as he did not prove affirmatively that he paid value
for the bonds.
Authorities are not necessary to show that the transferee of
a negotiable instrument made payable to bearer, subsequent to
its date, holds it clothed with the presumption that it was
negotiated to him at the time of its execution, in the usual
course of business and for value, and without notice of any
equities between the prior parties to the instrument. Goodman
v. Harvey, 4 A. & E. 870; Goodman v. Simonds, 20 How..
865; Noxon v. De Wolf, 10 Gray, 846; Banger v. Cary, 1 Met.
873.
Coupons are written contracts for the payment of a definite
sum of money on a given day, and, being drawn and executed
in a given mode, for the very purpose that they may be separated from the bonds, it is held that they are negotiable, and
that a suit may be maintained on them without the necessity of producing the bonds to which they were attached.
Kfnox County v. Aspinwall, 21 How. 544; White v. Railroad,
21 id. 575; Aurora v. West, 7 Wall. 105; Murray v. Lardner,
2 id. 121.
Possession of the instrun~ent is plenary evidence of title until
other evidence is produced to control it, the holder being entitled to the same privileges and immunities as an indorsee of a
bill of exchange or promissory note payable to bearer or indorsed
in blank. He is not subject to any equities as between the
promisor and original payee, nor to the set-off of any debt,
legal or equitable, which the latter may owe to the former.
Pettee v. Prout, 3 Gray, 503.
Title and possession are one and inseparable to clothe the
instrument with the prima facie presumption that it was
indorsed at the date of its execution, and that the holder paid
value for it, and received it in good faith in the usual course of
business, without notice of any prior equities. Evidence to
show that he paid value for the instrument is unnecessary in
the opening of his case; but the defendant may, if he can, give
evidence that the consideration was-illegal, that the instrument
was fraudulent in its inception, or that it had been lost or stolen

Oct. 1876.]

CROUWELL v. CoUNTY oF SAc.

before it was negotiated to the plaintiff ; and, if the defendant
proves such a defence, it will follow that it must prevail, unless
the plaintiff proves that he gave value for the instrument in the
usual course of business, in which event he is still entitled to
recover.

Fitch v. Jones, 5 El. & Bl. 288; Smith v. Braine, 16

Q. B. 243; Hall v. Featherstone, 3 Hurls. & Nor. 287.
Applying that rule to the case as it was first presented, it
would seem that the plaintiff should have prevailed, as it is
clear that the defendant did not give any sufficient evidence to
show that the consideration of the instruments was illegal, or
that they were fraudulent in their inception, or that they had
been lost or stolen before the plaintiff became the holder of the
same, without notice of any prior equities.
Suffice it to remark, in this connection, that these views were
urged against the former judgment; but they did not prevail,
and the judgment was rendered for the delendant, which is
unreversed and in full force. Suit is now brought upon the
bonds to which those coupons were attached, and the sole question of any importance is whether the judgment in the former
case is a bar to the present suit.
Nothing can be more certain in legal decision than the prop.
osition that the title to the bonds and coupons are the same, as
the coupons were annexed to the bonds when the bonds were
executed and delivered to the original holder, in pursuance of
the contract for building the court-house; and it is equally certain, that if it could be proved in defence that the consideration
was illegal, or that the instruments were fraudulent in their
inception, or that they had been lost or stolen before they were
negotiated to the holder, the defence would apply to the bonds
as well as the coupons.
Before proceeding to examine the legal question, it should be
remarked that the former suit was prosecuted in the name of a
different plaintiff; but the theory of the present defendants is
that the present plaintiff was the real owner of the coupons in
that action, and that the action was prosecuted for his sole use
and benefit. Testimony -to prove that theory -%-vas offered in
the court below, and the majority of the court now hold that
evidence to prove that proposition was properly admitted.
Assume that to be so, and it follows that the parties, in legal

CROMWELL V. COUNTY OF SAC.

[Sup. Ct.

contemplation, are the same; nor can it be denied that the
cause of action, within the meaning of that requirement, as
expounded and defined by decided cases of the highest authority,
is the same as that in the former action, the rule being that the
legal effect of the former judgment as a bar is not impaired,
because the subject-matter of the second suit is different, provided the-second suit involves the same title and depends upon
the same question. Outram v.'Jorewood, 3 East, 346.
Holders of negotiable securities, as well as every other plaintiff litigant, are entitled to a full trial upon the merits of the
cause of action; but if in such a trial judgment be rendered for
the defendant, whether it be upon the verdict of a jury or upon
a demurrer to a sufficient declaration, or to a material pleading
involving the whole merits, the plaintiff can never after maintain against the same defendant or his privies any similar or
concurrent action for the same cause, upon the same grounds
as those disclosed in the first declaration, for the reason that
the judgment, under such circumstances, determines the merits
of the controversy, and a final judgment deciding the right
must put an end to the dispute, else the litigation would be
endless. Rex v. Kingston,. 20 State Trials, 588; Kitchen v.
Campbell, 2 W. Bl. 831; Clearwater v. Meredith, 1 Wall. 43;
-Ricardov. Garcias,12 Cl. & Fin. 400.
Allegations of an essential character may be omitted In the
first declaration and be supplied in the second, in which event the
judgment on demurrer in the first ruit is not a bar to the second,
for the reason that the merits of the cause as disclosed in the
second declaration were not heard and decided in the first action.
Gilman v. Rives, 10 Pet. 298; Richardson v. Barton, 24 How.
188; Aurora City v. West, 7 Wall. 90.
Where the parties and the cause of action are the same, the
primafaciepresumption is that the questions presented for decision were the same, unless it appears that the merits of the
controversy were not involved in the issue, the rule in such
a case being that where every objection urged in the second
suit was open to the party within the legitimate scope of the
pleadings in the first suit, and that the whole defence might
have been presented in that trial,-the matter must be considered as having passed in rem judicatam, and the former judg-

Oct. 1876.]

CROMWELL V. COUNTY OF SAC.

ment in such a case is conclusive between the parties. Outram v. lorewood, 3 East, 358; Greatheadv. Bromley, 7 Term,
452.
Except in special cases, the plea of res jwudicata applies not
only to points upon which the court was actually required to
form an opinion and pronounce judgment, but to every point
which properly belonged to the subject of the issue, and which
the parties, exercising reasonable diligence, might have brought
forward at the time. 2 Taylor, Evid. sect. 1513.
Other text-writers of high authority substantially concur in.
that view; as; for example, Mr. Greenleaf says that "the rule
should apply only to that which was directly in issue, and not
to every thing which was hncidentally brought into controversy
during the trial;" and the reason given for that limitation is
worthy of notice, which is, that the evidence must correspond
-with the allegations, and be confined to the point in issue; and
he remarks that it is only to the material allegations of one
party that the other can be called to answer, for to such alone
can testimony be regularly adduced, and upon such an issue
only is judgment to be rendered. Pursuant. to those suggestions, he states his conclusion as follows: "A record, therefore, is not held conclusive as to the truth of any allegations
which were not material nor traversable, but as to things material and traversable it is conclusive and final."
Unless the court, in rendering the former judgment, was
called upon to determine the merits, the judgment is never*a
complete bar; and. it is safe to add, that, if the trial went off on
a technical defect, or because the debt was not yetdue, or because the court had not jurisdiction, or because of a tempoxary
disability of the plaintiff or the like, the judgment will be no
bar to a future action. 1 Greenl. Evid. sect. 330.
Since the resolution in _errer's Case, 6 Coke, 7, the general
principle has always been conceded, that, when one is barred
in any action, real or personal, by judgment or demurrer, confession or ierdict, he is barred as to that or a similar action of
the like nature for the same thing for ever. Demurrer for
want of equity in such a case is allowed in chancery, because
the whole matter in controversy is open in the first suit.
Contrary to that rule, a party brought a second bill of corn

CROMWELL V. COUNTY OF SAC.

[Sup. 0t.

plaint, and the Vice-Chancellor, in disposing of the case, expressed himself as follows "Where a given matter becomes the subject of litigation in and
of adjudication by a court of competent jurisdiction, the court requires the parties to bring forward their whole case, and will not,
except under special circumstances, permit the same parties to open
the same subject of litigation in respect of matterwhich might have
been brought forward as part of the subject in contest, but which
was not brought forward, only because the party has, from negligence, omitted part of his case."
And he added that the plea of res judicata applies, except in
special cases, not only to points upon which the court was
actually required by the parties to form an opinilon and pronounce a judgment, but to every point which properly belonged
to the subject of litigation, and which the parties, exercising
reasonable diligence, might have brought fopvard at the time.
Henderson v. Henderson, 8 Hare, Ch.'115; Bagot v. Williams,
8 B. & C. 241; _oberts v. Heine, 27 Ala. 678; Safford v. Clark,
2 Bing. 382; Miller v.. Covert, 1 Wend. 487.
When a fact has been once determined in the course of a
judicial proceeding, say the Supreme Court of Massachusetts,
and final judgment has been rendered in accordance therewith,
it cannot be again litigated between the same parties without
virtually impeaching the correctness of the former decision,
which, from motives of public policy, the law does not permit
to be done; and they proceed to say that the estoppel is not
confined to the judgment, but extends to all facts involved in
it, as necessary steps, or the groundwork upon which it must
have been founded. Burlen v. Shannon, 99 Mass. 208; Queen
v. Hartington,4 El. & Bl. 794; Gilbert v. Thompson, 9 Cush.
849.
Extended explanations upon the subject of estoppel by a prior
judgment were made by this court nearly twenty years ago, by
a judge very competent to perform that duty. Steam Packet
Company v. Sickles, 24 How. 342. Such a judgment, he said, in
order that it may operate as an estoppel, must have been made
by a court of competent jurisdiction upon the same subjectmatter between the same parties for the same purpose. He
then proceeded to describe the cause of action in that case,

Oct. 1876.]

CROMWELL V. COUNTY OP SAC.

which, as he stated, was a sum of money, being a part of the
consideration or price for the use of a valuable machine for
which the plaintiffs had a patent; that the sum demanded was
the complement of a whole, of which the sum demanded in the
declaration in the former suit is the other part. Both declarations contained similar special counts; and the court remarked,
that a decision in the one suit on those counts in favor of
the plaintiffs necessarily included and virtually determined
the sufficiency of th declaration to sustain the title of the
plaintiffs, and showed that the record was admissible in evidence.
Different views were entertained by the defendants, and they
submitted the proposition that a judgment was not admissible
in evidence as an estoppel, unless the record showed that the
very point it is sought to estop was distinctly presented by an
issue, and that it was expressly found by the jury; but the
court remarked, that such -a rule would be impracticable, as it
would restrict the operation of res judicatawithin too narrow
bounds, and the court decided that it was not necessary as between parties and privies that the record should show that
matter of the estoppel was directly in issue, "but only that the
said matter in controversy might have been litigated, and that
extrinsic evidence would be admitted to prove that the particular question was material and Was in fact contested, and that it
was referred to the decision of the jury."
Attempt was made in that case to maintain the proposition
that the judgment in the first suit coild not be held to be an
estoppel, unless it was shown by the record that the very point
in controversy was distinctly presented by an issue, and that it
was explicitly found by the jury; but the court held otherwise,
and expressly overruled the proposition, although the defence
of estoppel failed for other reasons.
Two notes, in another case, were given by the purchaser of a
vessel to the vendor of the same, and payment of the first note
being refased, the payee sued the maker; and the maker, at
the trial, set up as a defence that the vessel was rotten and unseaworthy at the time of sale, and that those facts were known
to the plaintiff. They went to trial, and the verdict and judg
ment were for the defendant. Sulsequently the plaintiff sued

CROMWELL V. COUNTY OF SAC.

[Sup. Ct.

the other note, and the defendant set up the judgment in the
other case as a bar to the suit; and the Supreme Court of New
York sustained the defence, holding that the former judgment,
whether pleaded as an estoppel or given in evidence under the
general issue, was conclusive that the sale was fraudulent, and
that the plaintiff could not recover in the second action. Gardner v. Buckbee, 3 Cow. 127.
Certain sums of money, in a later case, were paid by a surety
on two bonds given by an importer, in which the plaintiff and
defendant were sureties. They were jointly liable; but the
plaintiff paid the whole amount, and brought suit against the
other surety for contribution. Service was made; and the defendant appeared and set up the defence that he had been
released, with the consent of the plaintiff, before the payment
was made; and the court sustained the defence upon demurrer,
and gave judgment for the defendant.
Moneys were also paid by the same surety to discharge the
liability under the second bond. Contribution being refused,
the plaintiff brought a second suit, and the defendant set up
the former judgment as a bar; and the court sustained the
defence, it appearing that both bonds were given at the same
time upon the same consideration, and as part of one and the
same transaction. Bouchard v. Dias, 3 Den. 243.
Neither of the second suits in the two preceding cases were
for the same cause of action as the first, but the defence was
sustained as in Outragn v. korewood, 3 East, 358, because the
suit was founded upon the same title.
Cases of that kind are quite numerous, and they show to a
demonstration that a judgment may be a bar if the same title is
involved, even though the cause of action may be founded on a
different instrument, or for a different trespass upon the same
premises.
Conclusive support to that proposition is found in repeated
decisions, of which the following are striking examples: Burt
v. Sternburgh,4 Cow. 563; Whittaker v. Jackson, 2 Hurlst. &
Colt. 931; Strutt v. Bovivgdon, 5 Esp. 59.
In order to make a judgment conclusive, it is not necessary,
said Mr. Justice Bigelow, that the cause of action should be the
same in the -first suit as that in which the judgment is pleaded

Oct. 1876.]

CROMWELL V. COUNTY OF SAC.

or given in evidence, but it is essential that the issue should be
the same. The judgment is then coextensive with the issue
on which it is founded, and is conclusive only so far as the
same fact or title is again in dispute. Merriam v. Whittemore,
5 Gray, 317.
Decided cases in that State to the same effect are numerous,
the highest court of the State holding that it is well settled that
a judgment in a former suit between the same parties is a bar
to a subsequent action-only when the point or question in issue
is the same in both; that the judgment is conclusive in relation
to all matters in the suit which were put in issue, but has
no effect upon questions not involved in the issue, and which
were neither open to inquiry nor the subjects of litigation.
Norton v. Hfuxley, 12 id. 290.
Damages were claimed by the plaintiff for the loss of his
shop by fire communicated to it by the defendants' locomotive
engine, and he recovered judgment for the injury. He subsequently brought a second suit, for the loss of his dwellinghouse and shed by fire, it appearing that the house and shed
took fire from the shop. Process being served, the defendants
appeared and set up the former judgment as a bar. The
court sustained the defence, holding that the plaintiff did not
show any right to maintain another action merely by proving
his omission to produce upon the trial all the evidence which
was admissible in his behalf, and that having chosen to submit
his case upon the evidence introduced, he was bound to abide
by the verdict and judgment in the first suit. Trask v. Bailroad, 2 Allen, 332.
Where a party took a bill of sale of property from the ownet,
and the same was subsequently attached by an officer at the
suit of the creditors of the former owner, and the purchaser
under the bill of sale having converted part of the property to
his own use was sued by the officer, and the latter recovered
judgment upon the ground that the bill of sale was fraudulent
and void as to the creditors, it was held that the judgment was
a bar to a subsequent suit of replevin commenced by the grantee
in the bill of sale for the residue of the property in the hands
of the officer. -Doty v. Brown, 4 Comst. 75.
Beyond question, the bar is not defeated because the subjedt.
VOL. IV.

24

CROMWELL V. COUNTY OF SAC.

[Sup. Ct.

matter of the second suit is different from the first, if it be
founded on the same title; and the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania have held, in accordance with that view, that a judgment
in trespass upon a traverse of liberum tenementum estops the
party against whom it has been rendered, and his privies, from
afterward controverting the title to the same freehold in a
subsequent action of trespass. Stevens v. JHughes, 31 Penn.
St. 385; Hatch v. Garza, 22 Tex. 187; Clark v. Sammons,
12 Iowa, 370.
Tested by these several considerations, it is clear that a former
judgmenU is a bar in all cases where the matters put in issue in
the first suit were the same as the matters in issue in the second
suit. Bicardo v. Garcias,12 Cl. & Fin. 401 ; Beloit v. Morgan.
7 Wall. 623. " It results from these authorities that an adjudication by a competent tribunal is conclusive, not only in the
proceeding in which it is pronounced, but in every other where
the right or title is the same, although the cause of action may
be different." 2 Smith, Lead. Cas. (7th Am. ed.) 788, 789;
Bigelow on Estoppel (2d ed.), 45; Aurora City v. West, 7 Wall.
96; Outram v. Morewood, 3 East, 346; Gould v. Railroad Company, 91 U. S. 526.
Grant that, and still it is suggested that the plaintiff in the
suit on the coupons did not introduce evidence to prove that he
paid value for the bonds with the coupons; but the answer to
that is, that he might have done so. He alleged in the declaration that he paid value, and consequently he might have given
evidence to prove it, which shows that the question was directly
involved in the issue between the parties.
Doubtless the plaintiff neglected to give evidence in that
behalf, for the reason that he and his counsel were of the opinion that the evidence introduced by the defendants was not
sufficient to repel the prima facie presumption, arising from
his possession of the instruments, that he paid value for the
transfer, and I am still of that opinion; but the remedy of the
plaintiff, if surprised, was to except to the ruling, or to submit
a motion for new trial.
Suggestions of that sort are now too late, nor are they suffi
cient to modify the effect of the judgment. When once finally
rendered, the judgment must be considered conclusive, else liti-

Oct. 1876.]

JOiINSON V.HARMON.

gation will be endless. Litigants sometimes prefer not to bring
forward their whole case or defence, in order to enjoy the opportunity to bring up a' reserve in case of defeat in the first contest; but a rule which would sanction that practice would be
against public policy, as it would enable a party to protract the
litigation as long as he could find means or credit to compel the
attendance of witnesses and to secure the services of counsel.

JOHNSON v. HARMON.
1. A bill of exceptions cannot be taken on the trial of a feigned issue directed by
a court of equity, or, if taken, can only be used on a motion for a new trial
made to that court.
2. As the verdict may or may not have been the ground for the decree, an appeal
from the latter cannot be made to turn on the judge's rulings at the trial of
the feigned issue, but must be decided upon the whole case, pleadings, evidence, and verdict, giving to ihe latter as much effect as it is worth.

A1PPAL from the.Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Argued by Hr. A. C. Biddle for the appellant.
The court declined to hear Hr. M. Thompson for the appellee.

Mn. JusTicE BRADLEy delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a bill in equity, involving, amongst other questions,
the validity of a trust deed given by the complainant (the 'appellee here) to secure certain notes. The complainant charges
in his bill that he was so intoxicated when he executed the
deed and notes as to be incapable of understanding what he
was doing. The court below, after considerable testimony had
been taken, directed an issue to- try the question whether the
complainant, at the time of the execution of the deed of trust
and noes, was capable of executing a valid deed or contract.
The issue so directed was tried, and resulted in a verdict for the
complainant; namely, that he was not capable of executing a
valid deed or contract. The defendants took a bill of exceptions to the charge given by the judge who tried the issue,
which was allowed, and signed by him. The. ause afterwards

