AMERICAN BRIDGE

Co. V17HEIDELBACH.

[Sup. Ct.

because not sustained by the evidence. Upon writs of error to
the courts 6f the United States, we cannot be called upon to
decide such a question, because the finding of the court below
as to facts is conclusive upon us. Norris v. Jackson, 9 Wall.
127; Insurance Company v. Sea, 21 id. 160. But in Iowa a
different practice prevails, and our rule has been so far, and
only so far, relaxed as to permit the Appellate Court to set aside
a judgment of an inferior court, because against the weight of
the evidence, when there is no evidence whatever to support it,
or when there is such an absence of evidence that it may be
presumed to have been given' through the influience of passion,
prejudice, or favor. Rice v. Melendy, 41 Iowa, 400 ; Wilson v.
B. & H. B. Railroad Co., 83 id. 592; Starker v. Leese . Mahone, id. 595 ; Pearsonv. Minturn, 18 id. 37 ; Bellamy et al. v.
Doud, 11 id. 255. The judgment must be clearly and manifestly wrong.
Applying even this relaxed rule to the present case, we are
satisfied that the judgment of the Supreme Court of the State
ought not to be reversed. The question is one of preponderance
of testimony alone. It certainly cannot be said there is no
evidence in the case to support the finding, and, after three
judgments of affirmance in the courts below, hardly any thing
short of that would justify a reversal here.
Judgment affirmed.

AmEIcAN BRIDGE COmTANY v. HlznE

AcH.

1. A company, to secure the payment of its bonds, mortgaged its property, and
the rents, issues, and profits arising therefrom, with the provision, that, if
there was default in paying the interest, the mortgagee might take possession of the property, manage the same, and receive and collect all rents and
claims due and to become due to the company. Default was made; and
the mortgagee, in November, 1874, filed his bill, setting forth that the company had on hand moneys and claims due to it, both of which he prayed
might be applied to his mortgage. An execution upon a judgment, which
B. had against the mortgagor, having been sued out and returned nulla
bona, he, in December of that year, filed his bill to subject such moneys and
claims to the payment of his judgment. Held, that, inasmuch as the mortgagee had not taken possession, his claim to the earnings and income on
hand at the time of filing his bill must be postponed to that of B.
2. Galveston Railroad v. Cowdrey, 11 Wall. 459, and Gilman et al. v. Illinoir 6- Mwu.
souri Telegraph Co., 91 U. S. 603, cited and approved.

Oct. 1876.]

AMERICAN BmrDGE Co. v. UIIDELBACH.

799

APPEAL from the .Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansbs.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. Wallace Pratt and
Hr. 0. B. Lawrence for the appellant, and by Hlr. B. Crozier.
contra.
MIR.

JUsTICE

SwAYxE delivered the opinion of the court.

The controversy in this case has arisen out of a mortgage
executed by the Kansas and Missouri Bridge Company to the
appellees, as trustees, to secure the payment of the principal
and interest of certain bonds issued by the mortgagor and described in the mortgage.
Besides the bridge of the company, the- mortgage included
"the rents, issues, and profits of said bridge, as far as the same
are not required to pay the necessary expenses of keeping in
repair and operating said bridge, which rents, issues, and profits," it was declared, "are hereby pledged to the payment of
said interest as it matures, and to the establishment of a sinking fund for the redemption and payment of the principal of
said bonds," &c. It was further provided, that, if the interest
were in default for six months, the trustees, upon the written
request of the holders of one-half of the olutstanding bonds,
might take possession of the mortgaged premises, manage and
operate the bridge, and receive and collect all rents and claims
due and to become due to the company.
The interest upon the bonds being in default, the trustees,
on the 25th of November, 1874; filed their bill, wherein, among
other things, they set forth that there was in the hands of the
company a certain amount of money which ought to be applied
upon the mortgage and certain claims due to the company, the
proceeds of which ought to be applied in like manner. The
bill prayed accordingly.
The appellant, the American Bridge Company, held a judgment for $15,435.88 and costs against the Kansas and Missouri
Bridge Company, upon which an execution had been returned
ulla bona. On the 11th of December, 1874, the judgment
creditor filed a bill claiming priority of payment out of the
money and the proceeds of the claim above mentioned. It

AuicA

BRIDGE Co. V.HEIDELBACH.

[Sup. Ct.

appears that there is a sufficient fund to meet the demand awaiting below the termination of this litigation.
It cannot be denied that the return of the execution, the
filing of the bill, and the service of process, gave the judgment
creditor a lien upon the fund in question which must prevail,
unless the mortgagees have shown a paramount right to it.
Miller v. Sherry, 2 Wall. 249 ; 2 Barb. Ch. Pr. (2d ed.) 157,
note 13. The question as to the right claimed by the trustees
is conclusively settled against them by Galveston Railroad v.
Cowdrey, 11 Wall. 459, and Crilman et al. v. Illinois & Afissouri
Telegraph Co., 91 U. S. 603.
Both these cases, as regards this point, present exactly the
same legal aspect as the case before us. It is unnecessary to
reproduce at length what was said in those adjudications.
In this case, upon the default which occurred, the mortgagees
had the option to take personal possession of the mortgaged
premises, or to file a bill, have a receiver appointed, and possession delivered to him. In either case, the income would thereafter have been theirs. Until one or the other was done, the
mortgagor, as Lord Mansfield said in Chinneryv. Black, 3 Doug.
391, was "owner to all the world, and entitled to all the profit
made.'4
The mortgage could have no retrospective effect as to previous
income and earnings. The bill of the trustees does not affect
the rights of the parties. It is an attempt to extend the mortgage to what it cannot be made to reach. Such a proceeding
does not create any new right. It can only enforce those which
exist already. The bill of the trustees is as ineffectual as if the
fund were any other property, real, personal, or mixed, acquired
by the mortgagee aliunde, and never within the scope of the
mortgage.
Decree reversed, and cause remanded with -directions to enter
a decree in conformity to this opinion.

