Oct. 1876.]

FULLER . YENTZEs.

employed in the apparatus of the respondents, and the difference is at once seen to be material and obvious; as, for example,
the bar which holds the cloth to the bed-plate in the latter
apparatus is attached to one end of the bed-plate, and extends
lengthwise of it, and is rigidly fastened to the marking-blade,
forming a different combination from that exhibited in the
other apparatus, inasmuch as the bar which holds the cloth to
the bed-plate is made to bear harder thereon when the springarm is brought down on the blade than when the needle-arm is
ascending. Detach the bar from the bed-plate in the respondents' apparatus and no marking can be done, but the marker
will continue to perform its function in the complainants'
apparatus, even though the smooth plate were detached from
the device fastened to the presser-foot.
Differences of equal importance might be continued at
much greater length, but the court is of opinion that those
already pointed out are amply sufficient to* show that the
decision of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill of. complaint
is correct, and there is no error in the record.
Decree affirmed.

MR. CmIMF JUSTICE WAITE, MR. JUSTICE MM1LER, MR.
JUSTICE STRONG, and MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY

dissented.

FULLER v. YENTZER.
SA.UI

v. GOODRICH.

1. Reissued letters-patent No. 8,218, granted Dec. 1, 1868, to Henry W. Fuller,
assignee, by mesne assignments, of Israel M. Rose, for an improvement in
a tuck-creasing attachment in sewing-machines, were not superseded by letters-patent No. 28,633, issued June 5, 1860, to Henry W.Fuller and Anthony
W. Goodell.
2. The court holds that the apparatus constructed, used, and sold by the respond.
ents do not infringe ,the complainants' patent.

APPEALS from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Illinois.

FULLE.R V. YENTEB.

[Sup. Ot

Hr. B. B. Barnum and Hr. E. N. Dickerson for the appel.
lants.
Hfr. Walter B. Scates, contra.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

Modifications or alterations in an invention consisting in a
combination of old ingredients, which merely substitutes another old ingredient for one of the ingredients in the patented
combination, is an infringement of the patent, if the substitute
performs the same function and was well known at the date of
the patent as a proper substitute for the one omitted from the
patented invention; but the rule is otherwise if the ingredient
substituted is a new one, or performs a substantially different
function, or was not known at the date of the patent as a proper
substitute for the one omitted from the patented combination.
Both of these suits were instituted by Henry W. Fuller, who
b 3came, by certain mesne conveyances, the owner of the invention by assignment in due form. Since then, Isaac W. Barnum,
having become the owner of the patent, was, on motion of the
respondents, made a party complainant in each of the two
suits.
Sufficient appears to show that Israel M. Rose was the supposed inventor of the improvement; that the original patent
was granted to James Wilcox, assignee of the inventor; that
the first-named complainant, having subsequently become the
owner of the patent, surrendered the same; and that the reissued
patent, bearing date Dec. 1, 1868, on which the present suits
are founded, was granted to the rightful owner of the invention
at the date of the reissued patent.
Remarks respecting the title of the complainants are unnecessary, as it is not questioned by the respondents, nor is it
necessary to enter into any comparison of the reissued patent
with the original, as the means for such comparison are not
exhibited in the record.
Briefly stated, the allegation is that the patented invention
consists of a new and useful improvement in mechanism for
marking cloth in a sewing-machine, or for a new method of
marking a crease in cloth by what is known as the pinching
process, and for other improvements in the mechanism of P

Oct. 1876.]

FULLER V. YENTZER.

tuck-creaser, independent of the creasing devices, and that the
respondents, since the first day of May, 1872, have infringed
the same, as more fully set forth in the bill of complaint.
Process was served; and the respondents 'appeared and filed
an answer, setting up the following defences, which it is important to notice: 1. That the supposed improvement was not
patentable, because it had been in public use more than'two
years before the inventor applied for a patent. 2. That it was
not patentable, because it was well known and had been in
common use long before the alleged invention. 8. They deny
the charge of infringement, and justify all their acts under a
patent granted to Enoch S. Yentzer, dated May 28, 1872, for
an improvement in tuck-markers for sewing-machines.
Proofs were taken, the parties heard, and the Circuit Court
entered a decree in each case, dismissing the bill of complaint.
Immediate appeal was taken by the complainants in each case
to this court, and the questions here are the same as those
considered and decided in the Circuit Court.
Previous to that invention the statement of the inventor is
that fabrics were marked or creased by a protuberance or point
and a notch or indentation caused to impinge upon opposite
sides of the fabric, and the patentee states that that mode of
marking or creasing the fabric is open to the objection that fine
goods will sometimes be cut by the marking operation, while in
heavy or flimsy goods the crease is often insufficiently defined.
Instead of the point and notch, the present invention forms
marks, ridges, or creases in the fabric by a succession of nips or
pinches of the same while it has motion imparted to it, in line
with the crease. Motion is usually given to the fabric, by the
feed-mechanism of a sewing-machine, in which it is intended it
shall be used as an attachment; but the motion may be imparted
to the fabric in any other manner.
Objections, it is said, exist to other modes of forming creases
for the described purpose, and that the process of nipping or
pinching i5 designed to obviate those objections to other tuckmarkers, and to produce a more efficient instrument. Devices
called jaws are provided for the purpose, which are caused to
descend while open, with more or less force or pressure, on the
fabric, and then in being closed are capable of seizing a portion

FULLER V. YENTZER.

[Sup. Ct.

of the fabric and compressing the same tightly, the fabric at
the same time being properly supported against the descending
force of the jaws, and which operation, being repeated while the
fabric is moved along, produces the required ridge or crease, in
the line of which the fabric will naturally fold, to facilitate the
forming of the tuck for future operations.
Said invention also comprises certain details of construction,
arrangement, and combination to adapt tuck-markers for use
in connection with sewing-machines, forming a tuck-creasing
mechanism having an upper and under part adjustable as to its
relation with the needle of a sewing-machine, and to be operated
by the sewing-machine. Reference is made to the drawings for
the different views of the apparatus when properly arranged in
a sewing-machine in operation, to effect the described result.
Detailed description is also given of the various elements or
ingredients of the apparatus and of their mode of operation.
Mention is first made of the base-plate, which has an upright
standard firmly secured thereto, so as to form a permanent part
of the apparatus. To the upper end of the standard a lever is
jointed which carries a spring-branch, buckled at its lower end
with the blade that forms one of the jaws for seizing and
crimping the fabric. Freedom of motion to. and from the fabric
is insured by the lever, jointed as before explained, the suggestion being that the stiffness of the leather prevents any lateral
motion of the creasing device; and the statement is that the
lever is a!so designed to receive the force of the arm or other
moving part of the sewing-machine, and that it transmits the
motion directly to the jaws through the spring-branch, which is
carried by the lever jointed to the upper end of the standard.
Besides the base-plate there is a plate called the bed-plate,
with a small upright projection, to which is permanently fixed
a spring-blade having its front end bent downward, and which
forms a mate to the jaw already described. These jaws are
hinged together, as shown in the drawings, their lower ends
being sharp or serrated, in order more readily to seize the
fabric.
Effectual means are provided to cause the marking device to
react after each creasing action, and follow the upward motion
of the needle-arm, in order to give room for the free insertion

Oct. 1876.]

FULLER V. YENTZER.

and removal of the work; and this spring-branch shown in the
drawings is made to hold the outer jaw away from the inner
one when in the normal position there exhibited.
Creases are to be made in the fabric, and the design is that
the creasing action shall take place as nearly as possible in front
of the needle, and in line with the arm of the sewing-machine;
and, to secure that, an extension-plate is provided extending out
laterally fr'om the base-plate in line with the movement of the
feeding device, which supports the material under the jaws, andreceives their impinging action in the operation of making the
crease. By that arrangement the creasing devices are brought
across the presser-foot in the proper location with respect to
the needle for performing the creasing operation:
Upper and under devices are employed, on opposite sides of
the cloth, to effect the patented result, and a particular description is given of the means and mode of operation of the same,
by which the jaws seize the fabric, and double up and compress
the same so as to produce the described creases by the apparatus when attached to a sewing-machine. When properly
attached, the several parts of the apparatus are so arranged
that the lever is immediately under the arm of the sewingmachine, and the arm, when the machine is operated, will
strike the lever and actuate the creaser or tucker.
Tucking may also be done by the apparatus when attached
to a sewing-machine; but, in order to accomplish that, a fold
must first be made, by hand, in the fabric, the gauge being
fastened by a set-screw to make the seam the proper distance
from the edge of the required tuck. Fit means are also shown
in the drawings for adjusting the apparatus in such relation to
the needle that the distance from the needle to the jaws will
be at least double the distance between the needle and the gauge.
Suffice it to say that one movement or alteration of either
part will adjust the whole tucker with respect to the needle, as
the upper part is permanently connected with the under part,
and when hdjusted as required the fabric is placed in the machine with the folded edge against the gauge, and the machine
being started, the lever carries down the spring-branch and
with it the jaws to the surface of the fabric, which- operate as
before explained. On the upward motion of the arm the jaws

FULLER V. YENTZER.

[Sup. Ct.

rise and open by the elasticity of the springs, the fabric being
advanced by the feeding mechanism of the sewing-machine.
Movements of the kind are continued and the pinching process
repeated until the cloth is fed through the machine, causing a
well-defined ridge to be formed in the fabric by the creaser at
the same time that a seam is sewed in the folded part of the
same, forming a tuck.
Eight claims are appended to the specification, and the
charge is that the respondents have infringed the first, second,
fifth, sixth, and eighth, five in all, substantially as follows:
1. 'The mechanism as 4escribed for forming a Hidge or ridges
on fabrics to be afterwards folded'in the line of such ridge.
2. The method of nipping or pinching the fabric to form ridges
or creases thereon by means of jaws opened and closed at intervals to seize and pinch the fabric when at rest, and then
release it as the same is moved along intermittently by a suitable feeding mechanism. 3. The combination of the creasing
device or devices of a tuck-marker with a jointed lever, for the
purposes set forth. 4. A tuck-creasing mechanism, such as
described, having its upper -and lower parts connected, and together adjustable, as to its relations -with the needle of a sewing-machine, and operated by the sewing-machine, as set forth.
5. The combination with a tuck-marker having upper and
under parts connected, and together adjustable as specified, of
the lever and spring, for the purposes set forth.
Argument to show that a result is not patentable is not necessary, as that proposition is decided in the opinion in the preceding case, as ivell as in many other cases to which reference
might be made. Apply that rule to the several claims of the
patent in this case, which it is alleged the respondents have
infringed, and it is clear that they are all for the apparatus, or
certain portions of the apparatus, described in the specification
of the patent set forth in the bill of complaint.
Whether tested by the descriptive portion of the specification or by the specific claims appended to the same, it is clear
that the invention consists of a described apparatus intended to
be attached to a sewing-machine for the purpose of making a
mark, ridge, or crease in cloth by a succession of "nips or
pinches thereof" while it has motion imparted to it by the
-

Oct. 1876.]

FULLER V. YENTZEM.

feeding device of the sewing-machine, fs already sufficiently
explained, the work of sewing being performed during the same
operation of the feeding device.
Detailed description is given of the elements of the apparatus, from which it plainly appears that the invention does not
include any described means of attaching the apparatus to the
sewing-machine. Particular means of the kind are neither
described nor claimed, nor are they shown in the drawings in
a way to justify the conclusion that the means of attaching the
apparatus to the motive power are any part of the invention.
Instead of that, the patentee states that motion may be imparted to the apparatus in any convenient manner; nor is
there any thing in any one of the eight claiais of the reissued
patent which would afford any support to a different theory.
Fuller's patent for his own invention preceded that of Rose
by several years; but it is evident from a comparison of the
two that they are substantially different in many respects, so
that the latter may be considered as valid to the same extent
that it would have been if the first invention had never been
made.
Improvements in an apparatus of the ind may be valid if
new, and if they accomplish a new and useful result, even
though all the elements of the same are old, provided the combination or arrangement of the elements is new and of such a
character that it involved invention to construct the combination or arrangement. When a subsequent apparatus is substantially the same as -one which precedes it, the former is not
the proper subject of a patent; but if it be substantially different in construction and mode of operation, then it is as much,
the proper subject of a patent as if nothing of the kind hadever before been invented.
Tested by these rules, it is clear that the Rose patent is not
superseded by the Fuller patent, which preceded it in point of
time.
Two of 'the defences set up by the respondents, to wit, the
first and second, must also be overruled, for the reason that
they are not sustained by the proofs exhibited in the record.
They also deny infringement, and the decision in the case
must turn upon that issue. Infringement is charged by the
VOL. Iv.

20

306,

FULLER V. YENTZER.

[Sup. Ct,

complainants, and the burden of proof is upon them to sustain
the charge. Beyond doubt, it is established in these cases that
all the elements or ingredients of the patented apparatus are
old, and that the invention consists in the combination or
arrangement of the several- devices of which the apparatus is
composed.
Differences exist in the answers filed in the two cases; but
the respondents in both aver and allege that all the tuckmarkers or creasers coustructed, used, or sold by them were
constructed under the patents to Enoch S. Yentzer, and in
conformity therewith, and that they have in no respect in
fringed or violated the rights of the complainants. Coming to
that proposition, it is _ plain that it involves two questions:
1. Whether the respondents have constructed, used, or sold
apparatuses not constructed in conformity with the patent
under which they seek to justify all their acts. 2. Whether
the apparatuses which they have constructed, used, or sold
infringe the patent described in the bill of complaint.
Some difficulty attends the solution of the first question,
because all the evidence applicable to the three cases was taken
together, to. save expense. It consists of depositions, admissions, documents, models, and other exhibits; but, in view of
the whole, the court is of the opinion that the apparatuses constructed and sold by the respondents were constructed in
conformity with the patents under which they profess to act.
Support to -that view is also derived from the opinion of the
circuit judge exhibited in the record, in which he admits that
the 'complainants would be entitled to a decree if their construction of the Rose patent was correct. Damages are
claimed in that case for an alleged infringement of the sixth
claim of the patent, which is for tuck-creasing mechanism such
as described, having its upper and lower parts connected, and
together adjustable as to its relation with, the needle of a
sewing-mad.ilie, and operated by the sewing-machine, as set
forth.
Nothing can be plainer than the proposition that the claim
there made is for the previously described apparatus, when arranged in a sewing-machine, as the motive power for operating
the patented apparatus. Judging from the opinion of the cir-

Va .1876.]

FULLER v. YENTZER.

cuit judge, it would seem that the complainants did not claim
that the respondents had constructed improvements not within
their patent, but that they, the'complainants, could claim under
their patent every form of mechanism by which a creaser is
attached or adjusted to a sewing-machine, by which unity of
adjustment is accomplished, which is plainly an erroneous
construction of their patent.
Viewed in the light of all the proofs, the court is of the
opinion that the apparatuses constructed and sold by the
respondents were constructed in conformity to the patents
under which they justify in their answer.
Five of the claims of the patent, to wit, the first, second,
fifth, sixth, and eighth, are involved in the charge of infringement in the third suit, which is the second suit under consideration in this case. Enough has already been remarked to
show what the opinion of the court is in respect to the construction of the patent, and that the decision of the case
depends upon the question of infringement. What has already
been remarked is sufficient to explain the views of the court as
to the nature and character of the apparatus of the complainants, and its mode of operation, and it will be sufficient to refer
to the opinion just delivered for a full exposition of the views
of the court as to the nature, character, and mode of operation
of the patent under which the respondents justify in their
answer. Better means of comparison and decision need not be
required than is foand in the respective specifications of these
patents. Careful comparison of the two instruments has been
accordingly made, and the court is unhesitatingly of the opinion that the charge of infringement is not proved, atid that
there is no error in the record.
Decrees affirmed.

nI. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE, MR. JUSTICE MMLER, Mn.
JUSTICE STRONG, and MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY, dissented.

