Oct. 1876.]

STARK

V. STR.

477

STARK V. STARR.
1. The complainant, Starr, and his brother, being in possession of certain lots in
the city of Portland, Oregon, filed a bill in equity in the State court to quiet
their title and compel the defendant, who claimed an adverse interest under
his patent from the United States, to execute a release to them. Their bill.
set forth two distinct and independent causes of action, or grounds for relief:
one, founded upon an agreement made by the defendant with the parties
through whom the complainants claimed, to ratify and confirm the title of
such parties; and the other, founded upon a patent of the United States,
issued to the city of Portland for land within its limits, in trust for the
several use and benefit of the occupants thereof. This patent embraced
the premises in controversy, and the complainants claimed as beneficiaries
under it. On motion of the defendant, the court held that the two
grounds for equitable relief were inconsistent, and compelled the complainants to elect upon which ground they would proceed. They objected to
the order, but, under its compulsion, elected to proceed under the city
patent, and accordingly amended their bill so as to piesent their claim for
relief solely as beneficiaries under that instrument. The State court held
that the patent to Stark was void as against the complainants, and decreed
in their favor. On appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States, the
decree was reversed, that court holding that the patent to the city was
void; and the bill was subsequently dismissed. The defendant having
afterwards commenced an action of ejectment for the possession of the
premises, and recovered judgment, the complainant, who had in the mean
time acquired the interest of his brother, filed the present bill, setting up
substantially the same matter respecting the agreement of Stark with the
parties through whenm he claimed which was originally averred in the
first suit, and !ilso that the defendant was estopped by his acts from asserting title to the premises. Held, that the proceedings and decree in the
first suit did not conclude the complainant in the present suit upon the
agreement.
2. The principle that a party seeking to enforce a claim, legal or equitable, must
present to the court, either by the pleadings or the proofs, or both, all the
grounds upon which lie expects a judgment in his favor, and is not at liberty
to split up his demand and prosecute it by piecemeal, or present only a
portion of the grounds upon which special relief is sought, and leave the
rest to be presented in a second suit, if the first fail, does not require distinct
causes ofaction ; that is to say, distinct matters, each ofwhich would authorize by itself independent relief, to be presented in a single suit, though they
exist at the same time, and might be considered together.
3 Before tie laws of the United States were extended over the Territory of
Oregon, the settlers in that country had formed for themselves a provisional
government, under which they adopted regulations for the possession and
occupation of land in the Territory among themselves, although the title to
the land was in the United States. Under the regulations, land was occupied,
cultivated, and improved, and bought and sold, as if the parties had possessed
the fee. The claimants did not, in their dealings with the land, deny the pro.

STARK V. STARR.

[Sup. CL

prietorship of the United States, but they acted upon the expectation that
their possessions and improvements would be respected by the government,
and that ultimately they should acquire the title; and it was the general
understanding of the people, that, whenever the legal title was obtained, it
should inure to the benefit of the grantees of the claimant who secured the
patent of the United States. This understanding affected all transactions
in land until the passage of the Donation Act of Sept. 27, 1850. Held, that a
purchaser under these circumstances from the claimant, or a person whose
purchase from another had been confirmed by the claimant, acquired as
against him an equitable right to the land which a court of equity will
enforce when he has obtained the patent of the United States; and this
equitable right passes to subsequent grantees of the first purchaser or
confirmee.
4. Where a ratification by an attorney of a deed of settlement is insufficient in form,
because of the manner in which he expressed his agency in appending his
signature to the instrument declaring. the ratification, a court of equity will
look beyond the form of the execution, and, having ascertained his intention in signing the instrument, will, if possible, give it the effect intended,
if such ratification has been acted upon by others, and has not been
objected to by the principal, when called to his attention.
5. The subsequent action of the principal in asserting a right in severalty to
property, which he could only do upon his approval of such ratification by
his attorney, will estop him from denying the ratification.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

District of Oregon.
This was a suit in equity, to restrain the defendant from
enforcing a judgment recovered by him against the tenants of
the complainant, for the possession of certain premises situated
in the city of Portland, Oregon, and to compel thp defendant
to execute a release of his interest to the complainant.
It appears from the record, that on the 22d of March, 1848,
and for some time previous, one Francis W. Pettygrove held a
claim to six hundred and forty acres of land in Oregon, which
was tak-en up by him under the law of the provisional government, established by the settlers there in 1845, before the laws
of the United States were extended over the country. On the
land covered by this claim a large part of the city of Portland
is built. On the day mentioned, Pettygrove conveyed his
claim, with the exception of certain designated lots, to one
Daniel H. Lownsdale, of Portland. By the conveyance, the
grantor, for the consideration of $5,000, and divers other good
causes and considerations, bargained, remised, and released to
the grantee named all his " right, title, interest, claim, and

Oct 1876.]

STARK V. STARR.

demand at law and in equity, present and in expectancy," in
and to the land claim, the boundaries of which were given.
On the 30th of March, 1849, Lownsdale, for the consideration of $6,000, bargained, quitolaimed, and released his interest
in the claim, with the exception of certain lots, to Stephen
Coffin, designating the interest conveyed, and describing the
claim in similar language. With the execution of this conveyance, Lownsdale and Coffin entered into a contract by
which Coffin agreed to make every exertion to obtain the title
of the United States to the claim, divide the proceeds of any
sales of lots or other property or privileges on the land
claimed; to bear half the expenses of any improvements they
might jointly conclude to make; to further the interest of the
town site; to divide the profits and the losses; and that Coffin
should execute to Lownsdale a good title to one-half of the
claim upon the termination of the contract, which was dissolvable by mutual consent.
*On the 13th of December, 1849, Lownsdale and Coffin, for
the consideration of $26,666, payable by instalments, conveyed
one undivided third part of the claim to William W. Chapman,
of Portland. From that time the three parties owned the
claim jointly, designating themselves as partners.
During this 'time, the defendant Stark asserted ownership
to one undivided half of the claim, by purchase from one Lovejoy, who, he contended, had held the claim in connection with
Pettygrove.
In January, 1850, Lownsdale went to San Francisco, leaving
with Chapman a power of attorney to transact and superintend
his business in the Territory during his absence; to do any
thing pertaining to his interests in Oregon which he, in his
judgment, might think advisable, "particularly in signing
deeds to Portland lots."
At San Francisco Lownsdale met Stark, and they made a
settlement of their respective claims, by which the claim was
divided by a line running through what is now called Stark
Street; Stark taking the part north of the line, and Lownsdale the part south of it. This settlement was embodied in a
deed of release and quitclait, executed by them on the 1st of
March, 1850. By the deed, Stark ratified and confirmed the

STARK V. STARR.

[Sup. Cb.

conveyances of certain designated lots north of that line, made
by Lownsdale or his attorney, previous to the first day of
January, 1850, and. also all grants and conveyances made
subsequently to the first day of March, with a proviso that
Stark should receive the proceeds of the subsequent conveyances.
During the absence of Lownsdale, Chapman and Coffin
agreed to partition off three blocks among the three owners,
assigning one to each owner in severalty, at an agreed valuation. In this way, block 78 was assigned to Lownsdale, block
79 to Coffin, and block 81 to Chapman. This partition, making
assignment, was made by the following instrument: "This indenture, made and entered into this twentieth day of
Mkfarch, A.D. 1850, between Stephen Coffin, D. H. Lownsdale, and
W. W. Chapman, proprietors of Po:tland, of the first part, and W.
W. Chapman,. of Portland, Washington County, Oregon, of the
second part, witnesseth, that the party of the first part, for and in
consideration of the sum of $2,000, the receipt whereof is hereby
acknowledged, doth release, confirm, and quitclaim unto the said
Chapman the following-described property in the said town of
Portland, to wit, lots numbers one (1), two (2), three (3), four (4), in
fractional block number eighty-one (81), being the warehouse frac'tion, and situate east of Water Street, to the water north of Oak
Street and south of Pine Street, according to the plat of said town.
"In testimony whereof, the parties have hereunto set their hands
and seals day and year aforesaid.
(Signed)
"S. COFFIN.
[sEAL.]
"D. H. LOWNSDALE, [SEAL.]
" By his Attorney-in-fad, Ir. WV.Chapman.
[sEAL.]"

"W. W. CHAPMAN.

Chapman and Coffin first heard, early in April, 1850, of
the settlement between Stark and Lownsdale. They at once
refused to ratify it, unless the agreement or deed of settlement
was modified so as to cover the disposition of property made by
them during Lownsdale's absence up to the time they were
informed of the settlement.
Stark had left Portland in September of the previous year.
Before he left, he executed the following power of attorney,
and delivered it to John H. Couch: -

Oct;. 1876.]

STARK v. STARR.

"]Know all men by these presents, that I, Benjamin Stark, merchant, resident of Portland, in the Territory of Oregon, do hereby
make, constitute, and appoint John H. Couch, of Portland aforesaid
(merchant, and my mercantile partner), my true and lawful attorney, for me, and in my stead, to do any and all acts, during my
temporary absence from this Territory, which I might myself lawfully do were I personally present, hereby ratifying and confirming
all and every act which my said attorney shall so perform, and, by
these presents, recalling and annulling all authority conflicting with
this letter of attorney, which I have previously given to any person
or persons whatsoever.
"Witness my hand and seal, at Portland, this twenty-sixth day
of September, A.D. 1849.
"BRN. ST n. [sna.]
"Witness: WN.

SETON OGDEN."

With this power, Stark sent the following letter to ins
attorney:
"JoiN H. CoucH, Esq.:

"SIR, -With this you have from me a power of attorney of the
fullest character, under which, during my absence from the Territory, you can look out for all my interests,' particularly with reference to my interest in the Portland town claim.
"As regards the claim, I wish you tonotify Mr. Coffin, as soon
as he returns, of the true position of things, and, if possible, have
the difficulty concerning my undivided half settled. I have spoken
to James W. Nesmith, Esq., and to Mr. Pritchard, Secretary of
State, and they will both hold themselves in readiness to act as my
counsel.
"Should you find, after the return of Mr. Coffin, that the matter
can be brought no nearer to a settlement upon just and equitable
principles, I wish you to submit to them (Nesmith and Pritchard)
all my papers, a part of which you have herewith, and others which
you can have from A. L. Lovejoy, Esq., upon application to him,
and direct them to pursue such measures as they deem most judicious.
",Mr.Lovejoy can give some valuable hints to my counsel, as he
was formerly my agent. It will be necessary for you to advise the
public of your appointment as my attorney during my absence.
The proper kind of notice to publish, Nesmith or Pritchard can
prepare.
"Wishing you may have but little trouble with my affairs, yet
voL. Iv.

31

[Sup. Ct.

STARK v. STARR.

trusting that you will battle to the utmost for my rights if neces
sary, I am yours, affectionately,

"€BENVJ. STARK.

" PORTLAND,

26th September, 1849."

Assuming to act under the authority of this power and letter,
Couch undertook to obtain from Chapman and Coffin a ratification of the agreement of settlement between Stark and Lownsdale. For that purpose he consented to the modification
demanded by them. Accordingly the agreement was ra ified
by Chapman and Coffin by the following instrument signed
by them indorsed upon the agreement: "We, Stephen Coffin and W. W. Chapman, partners with Daniel
It. Lownsdale, in the town of Portland, hereby ratify and confirm
a certain agreement between Benjamin Stark and D. H. Lownsdale,
bearing date the first day of March, A.D. 1850, respecting an adjustment of title, hereby placing the disposition of property up to notice
of said adjustment upon the same footing with the disposition of
property before the first day of January last.
"In testimony whereof we have hereunto set our hands and seals
this the thirteenth day of April, A.D. 1850.

"S.COFFIN.

"W.

[L. S.]

W. CHAPMAN. [L. s.]"

Under this instrument the following ratification by the attorney of Stark was executed: " PORTLAND, 0. T., April 15, 1850.
"I ratify the above agreement as far as my interest is concerned
in said property.
"JOHNV H. COUoH,
"1-ForB.BxJ.

STAIK."

All other material facts are sufficiently stated in the opinion
of the court.
The complainant obtained a decree for the release prayed,
and the defendant appealed to this court.
Mr. Jeremiah S. Black for the appellant.
Mr. George H. Williams for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE FIEi-D delivered the opinion of the court.

On the 7th of December, 1860, the Commissioner of the

Oct. 1876.]

STARK

V. STARR.

General Land-Office at Washington issued a patent of thi
United States to the corporate authorities of the city of Port
land, Oregon, for lands within the limits of the city to thE
extent of three hundred and seven acres and forty-nine hundredths of an acre, in trust for the several use and benefit of the
occupants thereof. This patent was issued upon an entry made
by the city authorities, on the belief that the lands were
brought under the operation of the Town-Site Act of May 23,
1844, by the Organic Act of 1848, establishing the territorial
government of Oregon, and wete not subject to disposition
under the Donation Act of 1850. The patent embraced the
premises in controversy in this suit, but reserved from its
operation any valid claims that might exist in virtue of the
eeveral donations to Benjamin Stark and others.
On the following day, Dec. 8, 1860, the Commissioner of the
General Land-Office also issued a patent to Stark for land
situated within the limits of Portland, claimed by him under
the Donation Act, subject, however, to such rights as might exist
in virtue of the entry by the city. This patent also covered
the premises in controversy.
For several years before these patents were issued, the complainant, with his brother, had been in the occupation, use,
and enjoyment of the premises, and had erected upon them expensive and permanent improvements. During this time they
asserted, that, by virtue of a certain agreement made by Stark
with parties through whom they had obtained their interest,
they bad acquired a right to have the legal title transferred to
them, whenever that was obtained fr~om the United States.
After Stark had secured his patent, they applied to him for a
release; but he refused to give them one, and threatened them
with legal proceedings to recover possession of the premises.
They thereupon brought a suit in equity in the State court
to compel a release of his interest. In their bill, which was
filed in January, 1864, they set forth their long and peaceable possession; that they had made large and valuable improvements; that the defendant asserted title to the premises
under his patent, and threatened suits for their recovery;
and stated the conveyances under which they claimed, and
the agreement upon which they founded- their right to a re-

STARK V. STARR.

[Sup. Ct.

lease of his interest; and they prayed a decree compelling
such release.
Subsequently, the bill was amended by the addition of clauses
setting forth the patent of the United States issued to the corporate authorities of the city, in trust for the several use and
benefit of the occupants, and alleging that the complainants,
as beneficiaries, claimed an interest in the premises under that
instrument.
The State court appeared to consider these two grounds for
equitable relief -one founded upon the agreement of Stark
with the parties through whom the complainants claimed, and
the other founded upon the city patent -as
inconsistent with
each other, and compelled the complainants to elect upon which
they would proceed. They objected to the order, but, under its
compulsion, elected to proceed upon the city patent. The bill
was accordingly amended so as to present their claim for relief
solely as beneficiaries under that instrument. The point in
contention, then, was, which of the two patents carried the
title to the premises. If the patent to the city authorities was
valid, Stark took nothing by his patent. If, however, his
patent was valid, the city had acquired no interest in the
premises.
The State Circuit Court and the State Supreme Court held
that the patent to Stark was void as against the complainants,
and enjoined him from taking legal proceedings to eject tbtm
from the premises. The case having been brought to this court,
the decree of the Supreme Court was reversed, and the cause
remanded with directions to dismiss the suit. Upon our mandate the suit was accordingly dismissed in September, 1868.
In deciding the case, we held that the act of 1848, organizing
the Territory of Oregon, did not extend over the country the
Town-Site Act of 1844, and that the patent to the city authorities, being made upon an entry under that act, passed no title
to the land covered by the donation claim of Stark. His right
to a patent had been previously perfected, and his claim had
been surveyed before the passage of the act of 1854, by which
the Town-Site Act was first extended with qualifications to the
Territory. Stark v. Starrs, 6 Wall. 402.
After the suit was thus dismissed, Stark commenced actions

Oct. 1876.]

STARK V. STARR.

of ejectment against the tenants of the complainant for possession of the-premises. These were consolidated into one action,
in which Stark recovered judgment, with damages, for use and
occupation. The complainant thereupon commenced the present suit in equity, alleging that he has a good and equitable
title to the premises as against Stark, and praying an injunction
against any legal proceedings for their possession, and a decree
that he be required to release such title as he may have acquired
by his donation claim and patent. In the bill the complainant
sets up substantially the same matter, though with greater fullness and detail, which was originally averred' in the first suit
brought by himself and his brother, and omitted in the amended
bill in that suit upon the election required by the court; and
also claims that the defendant is estopped by his acts from
asserting title to the premises.
The first question presented for 'ur determination is, whether
the complainant is concluded upon that matter in the present
suit, by reason of the proceedings and decree in the first suit.
While that suit was pending, the complainant acquired the
interest of his brother.
It is undoubtedly a settled principle that a party seeking to
enforce a claim, legal or equitable, must present to the court,
either by the pleadings or proofs, or both, all the grounds upon
which he expects a judgment in his favor. He is not at liberty
to split up his demand and prosecute it by piecemeal, or present only a portion of the grounds upon which special relief is
sought, and leave the rest to be presented in a second suit, if
the first fail. There would be no end to litigation if such a
practice were permissible. But this principle does not require
distinct causes of action, -that is to say, distinct matters, each of which would authorize by itself independent relief, to
be presented in a single suit, though they exist at the same
time and might be considered together. The agreement between
Stark and the parties through whom the complainants claimed
constituted a cause for relief, distinct from and independent of
that arising from the interest asserted by them as beneficiaries
under the patent to the city authorities. There was, therefore,
no rule of law which compelled the presentation of the two
causes of relief in the same suit They required different alle.

STARK v. STARR.

[Sup. Ct.

gations in the bill, and different evidence on the hearing. The
court might have considered one cause insufficient, and sustained the bill on the other. It might have ruled against the
agreement, and, sustaining the city patent, enjoined the defendant from asserting any interest in the premises; or it might
have denied the validity of the patent, and decreed a release
upon the agreement. The provisions of the decree would have
conformed to the cause sustained ; its directions in the one
case would have differed from its directions in the other. It
was competent, therefore, and within the discretion of the court,
to compel the presentation of the two causes, calling as they
did for different relief in sepaxate suits. A decision upon one
could not possibly be a bar to proceedings upon the other, from
their intrinsically distinct nature. Having required the complainants to proceed in that suit only upon one cause or ground
for relief, the court left the other cause open for any future suit
which they might choose to bring.
To appreciate and give proper effect to the agreement made
by Stark with parties through whom the complainant derives
his interest, and upon which he founds his claim to equitable
relief in this suit, Teference must be had to the condition on
which land in Oregon was held at that time. The entire land
in the Territory belonged to the United States. No provision
had been made for the sale or other disposition of any portions
of it to private parties. The pre-emption law had not been
extended over the country, nor until the passage of the act of
September 27, 1850, usually designated as the Donation Act,
was there any known mode for obtaining the legal title. And
yet the inhabitants dealt in the land as though possessed of the
fee. They not only occupied, cultivated, and improved such
portions as their necessities required, but they bought and sold
it as land is bought and sold where the title has passed out of
the government. This dealing in the land without having the
title arose necessarily from the settlement of the country before
the. laws of the United States were extended over it. Indeed,
a large number of emigrants from the United States had settled
in the country whilst its sovereignty was in dispute with Great
Britain. It was not until the 15th of June, 1846, that its sovereignty was determined by the treaty; and previous to this

Oct. 1876.]

STARK V. STARR.

time, in 1845, the emigrants had formed for themselves a provisional government, under which laws were passed, protection
to persons and property secured, and justice administered, -with
all the order and regularity of long-established" communities.
The inhabitants engaged in the pursuits, industries, and enterprises which might be expected from an active, intelligent, and
moral people. For the preservation of order and security, they
were obliged to make some regulations for the possession and
occupation of land among themselves. They accordingly established a land system, providing in what manner and to what
extent land should be taken up and possessed. Under it each
person over a specified age, upon complying with certain conditions, was allowed to hold six hundred and forty acres. He
was required to designate the extent of his claim, either by natural or artificial boundaries; make, within prescribed periods,
improvements thereon ; and have the claim recorded in the office
of the territorial recorder, in a book kept for that purpose. All
claims thus taken up and recorded were respected by the people; and the claimants were protected, not only by the law of
the provisional government, but by the general public sentiment
of the country, in their possession and enjoyment. They were
at liberty to use the claims for any legitimate purpose as absolute owners, either for cultivation and residences, or as sites for
villages or towns. They did not deny, in any of their dealings,
the proprietorship of the United States; but they acted upon a
confident expectation that their possessions and improvements
would be respected by the government, and that ultimately they
should acquire the title.* This expectation was founded upon
the uniform action of the government in its dealings with the
public domain, occupied by settlers in advance of legislation for
its sale. It was, therefore, understood by the people that, whenever the legal title was thus obtained, it should inure to the
benefit of the grantees of the claimant who secured the patent
of the United States. This understanding constituted, in
reality, the unwritten conventional law of the Stat6, which
affected all transactions in land until the passage of the Dona* See observations of Mr. Justice Deady, of the United States District Court,
on this subject, quoted in Stark v. Starts, 6 Wall. 415; and of Mr. Justice Sawyer,
af the Unitea States Circuit Court, in Lamb v. Dacenport, 1 Sawyer, 619-622.

STARK v. STARR.

[Sup. Ct.

tion Act. That act shows that Congress, in its passage, was
cognizant of this fact; for it impliedly recognizes the validity
of previous contracts for the transfer of land made by a claimant, to whom, upon proof of his settlement and its continuation
for four years, a patent should be afterwards issued. This matter was considered by this court in Lamb v. Davenport, reported
in the 18th of Wallace. It was there objected that a contract
for the sale of lands thus held, made before the passage of the
Donation Act, was void, because the proviso to the fourth section declares that all future contracts of sale by any person
entitled to the benefit of the act, before he received a patent,
should be void; but the court said, speaking through Mr. Justice Miller: "The act was on its face intended 1o cover settlements already made, and the careful limitation of this proviso
is, sales made after the pasto future contracts of sale -that
sage of the act -raises a strong implication of the validity of
such contracts made before the passage of the statute. It was
well known that many actual settlers held under such contiacts,
and while Congress intended to protect the donee from future
improvident sales, it left contracts already made undisturbed."
And the court held that the .purchaser by such a contract
acquired, as against his vendor, an equitable right to the land,
which would be enforced when the legal title was obtained.
In the present case, it appears that prior to March 22, 1848,
one Francis W. Pettygrove held a claim to six hundred and
forty acres, taken up under the law of the provisional government, upon which a great part of the present city of Portland
is built. On that day he conveyed his claim, with the exception of certain lots, and all his interest therein, "present and
in expectancy," to Daniel H. Lownsdale. In March, 1849,
Lownsdale conveyed his interest in the claim, with a similar
exception of certain lots, to Stephen Coffin, taking back a contract, to the effect, substantially, that Coffin would hold the
property equally for his benefit, and execute to him a good title
to one-half of the claim, with the improvements, upon the termination of the contract. In December following, Lownsdale
and Coffin conveyed one undivided' third interest in the claim
to Chapman. The three were, in fact, equal owners of the
claim, and styled themselves partners in the property, although

Oct. 1876.]

STARK V. STARR.

the conveyances showed that the documentary title to it was in
the names of Chapman and Coffin alone. These parties, while
retaining the general possession and ownership of the claim,
laid off upon it numerous blocks and lots, and sold a large
number of the lots to different parties, publicly avowing at
the time their intention to obtain, if possible, a title to the land
from the United States, and thus to perfect the title of .the purchasers.
In January, 1850, Lownsdale went to San Francisco, leaving
a power of attorney with Chapman, to do any thing pertaining
to his interest which Chapman might think advisable, particu.
larly in signing deeds to lots in the city of Portland. Whilst
in San Francisco, he met the defendant Stark, who claimed onehalf interest iV the Portland land claim by purchase from one
Lovejoy, who, he asserted, held the claim originally with Pettygrove. A settlement was accordingly made between them. It
was agreed that Lownsdale should release, with certain exceptions, all claim to land north of a designated line, now known
as Stark Street; and that Stark should release, with certafin
exceptions, all claim to land south of the line, and confirm certain sales and conveyances made within the tract released to
him. This agreement was carried out by a deed of mutual
release and quitclaim executed by them on the 1st of March,
1850. The deed confirmed the conveyances of certain lots made
by Lownsdale or his attorney previous to Jan. 1, 1850, north
of the line, and all subsequent conveyances to March 1, 1850;
but with a proviso that Stark should receive the proceeds of
the subsequent conveyances. The instrument also provided,
that in case any person, with certain exceptions, holding or
claiming under Lownsdale, referring to Chapman and Coffin,
should'refuse to ratify and confirm the deed within six months,
Stark might at his option have it cancelled.
Whilst Lownsdale was absent at San Francisco, three blocks
were partitioned by Chapman and Coffin among the three owners, one block being taken by each at an agreed valuation.
One of them, designated number 78, was assigned to Lownsdale, one, designated number 79, was assigned to Coffin, and
one, number 81, was assigned to Chapman. This latter block
lies north of the dividing line, within the tract falling to Stark,

STARK V. STARR.

[Sup. Ct.

and embraces the premises in controversy. The assignment of
this block is contained in a deed purporting to be a conveyance
by Chapman, Coffin, and Lownsdale, - the latter by Chapman,
his attorney. As a conveyance of any interest to Chapman
from Lownsdale, it is waste paper. An attorney cannot convey to himself by a power from his principal. But at that
time Coffin, as already stated, held in his name the interest of
Lownsdale. The instrument was therefore effectual as a release to Chapman of the entire interest of both. No one but
Lownsdale could object to the transaction; and he never complained of it, but,.on the contrary, approved of it. In the settlement between the joint owners or partners, Chapman was
,charged with the estimated value of the block.
When Chapman and Coffin learned of the agreement between
Lownsdale and Stark, they refused to ratify it, unless it were
modified so as to cover the transfers made by them during
Lownsdale's absence, referring particularly to the disposition
made of the three blocks. During the previous year, Stark, on
leaving Portland, had given a power of attorney to his partner,
to do any and all acts during his absence which he could do if
present. Accompanying this power was a letter, in which the
land claim was mentioned, and a desire expressed that his interest in that claim should be particularly attended to, and the
difficulty concerning his undivided half settled. This attorney
now undertook to remove the objection urged by Chapman
and Coffin, and for that purpose, after some negotiation, he
consented to the modification desired. The agreement was
accordingly ratified by Chapman and Coffin, modified so as to
place the disposition of property made by them previous to the
time they received notice of the settlement upon the same
footing with the disposition of property before the first of the
previous January; and as thus modified the agreement was
also ratified by the attorney. Afterwards, during the same
year, and in January, 1851, Chapman sold the premises in controversy. A portion of them was purchased from him by the
complainant and his brother. The rest of the premises was
afterwards purchased by them from intermediate parties. They!
were all acquired before the patent of the United States was
issued to Stark. The different purchasers went at once into

Oct. 1876.]

STARK V. STARR.

possession; and they or their grantees have ever since, either
by themselves or tenants, been in the occupation of the property, and have made extensive and valuable improvements.
The property is situated in the business part of Portland, and
has always been occupied for business purposes.
The ratification made by the attorney of Stark, it is said,
applies in terms only to the attorney's interest; but the answer
is, that the attorney had no interest at the time, and acted only
for Stark. If, as a ratification by Stark, it is insufficient in
form, because of the manner in which the attorney has expressed his agency in appending his signature to the instrament, a court of equity will look beyond the form of the
execution, and, having ascertained the intention of the attorney
in signing the instrument, will, if possible, give it the effect
intended. The ratification, such as it was, undoubtedly led to
the purchase of the property by the complainant and his
brother and others. When Stark subsequently returned to
Portland, in June, 1850, he was informed of the action of his
attorney, and made no objection to it, although he understood
that it was intended as a ratification on his part of the disposition of the block in question by Chapman and Coffin.
But more persuasive evidence of his approval of the modification is furnished by his action with respect to the property.
As already stated, the documentary title to the entire claim
was in Chapman and Coffin. Without their approval, the
settlement between Stark and Lownsdale would have failed
of any result. Upon the ratification by the attorney, Chapman and Coffin abandoned all interest in any other property
than block 81 north of the agreed line; and Stark at the
same time abandoned his interest in the tract south of that
line, and appropriated in severalty all the other property released on the north. In other words, instead of calling for a
cancellation of the deed upon the refusal of Chapman and
Coffin to ratify it, as he was at liberty to do, he adopted it as
approved by them; for, except as thus approved, it was without any efficacy. He held nothing in severalty, except by their
consent; and upon his claim to hold the property released in
this way he subsequently obtained his patent from the government, and sold to different parties portions of the land. Under

492

STARK V. STARR.

[Sup. Ct.

these circumstances, he cannot be permitted to go back upon
the act of his attorney.
So far, therefore, as the transfer of block 81 to Chapman is concerned, the deed must be held to apply to it as
fully as it applies to the conveyances specially designated and
confirmed by that instrument. It operated as a confirmation of the transfer, and gave to Chapman an equitable right
to call for a release of the legal title, when that was obtained.
That right passed to the complainant claiming under him.
During the several years intervening between this transaction
and the issue of the patent, Stark frequently conversed with
the Starrs dnd the other purchasers respecting the property,
assured them, in repeated instances, that he would convey to
them the legal title when he cAbtained the patent from the
government, and advised them to erect buildings and improve
the property. Under his eye, and with full notice, and by
his encouragement, the Starrs, and others from whom the
Starrs purchased, made the improvements. If in the light of
these facts, and all the attending circumstances, the defendant
could now successfully impugn the ratification made by his
attorney, deny the promises made by himself, and deprive the
complainant of the property and improvements, it would be a
reproach to the administration of justice. Upon every principle
of law and morals, he should be for ever enjoined from the commission of such injustice, and be compelled to quiet the title
of the complainant by a release of all claim to the premises.
.Decree affirmed.
NOTE.- In Stark v. Starr-and Same v. Bacon, appeals from the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Oregon, which were argued at the same
time and by the same counsel as was the preceding case, MR. JusTice FliE, in
delivering the opinion of the court, remarked: "These cases involve some of the
questions discussed and decided in the above case; and, upon the authority of
that de~ision, the decrees in both are affirmed."

