Oct. 1876.]

OHORPENNING V. UNITED STATES.

the State. In this way the people of Virginia may be enabled
to produce what the people of the other States cannot; but that
is because they own property which the others do not. Their
productions do not spring from commerce, but commerce to
some extent from them.
We are unable to agree with the counsel for the plaintiff in
error in his argument, that the right of planting may be enforced
as a privilege of inter-state citizenship, even though that of
taking cannot. Planting means, in "oysterman's phraseology,"
as counsel say, "depositing with the intent that the oysters
shall remain until they are fattened." The object is, therefore,
to make use of the soil and the water above it for the improvement and growth of that which is planted. It is this use, as
has already been seen, that the State has the right, by reasor
Judgment affirmed.
of its ownership, to prohibit.

CHORPFmNING v. UmTED STATES.
From the repeal of the joint resolution of April 15, 1870 (A Stat. 673), authorizing the Postmaster-General to adjust the accounts of George Chorpenning,
and from the prohibition in the act of March 8, 1871 (id. 519), directing that
no part of the money thereby appropriated for the use of the Post-office
Department shall "be applied to the payment of what is known as tie
Chorpenning claim," the implication is clear, that nothing more was to be paid
to him on account of said claim, without further authority from Congress.

from the Court of Olaims.
Mr. Joseph Casey for the appellant.
Mr. Solicitor-Ceneral.Pillips,contra.
APPEAL

the court.
The appellant rests his claim upon the act of Congress of
March 8, 1857, 11, Stat. 521, and the resolution of Congress
of July 15, 1870, 16 Stat. 673.
Under ihe act of 1857, Postmaster-General Brown, on the
25th of May and the 30th of June, 1857, awarded to the claimant three several sums of $80,000, $49,842, and $29,590.95,
which were paid to him He received them under protest.
Thereafter he filed his petition in the Court of Claims, avdrMR. JuSIcE SwAYNE delivered the opinion of

CHORPENNING V. UNITED STATES.

(Sup. Ot.

ring that he was entitled to further compensation and damages
under the act.
The Court of Claims held that the action of the PostmasterGeneral, and the payment and receipt of the sums awarded,
were final and conclusive between the parties, and the petition
was dismissed. - Chorpenning v. United States, 8 Ct. of Cl.
140. The claimant appealed to this court. While the appeal
was pending, Congress passed the resolution of July 15, 1870.
Under that resolution Postmaster-General Cresswll found
there was due to the claimant the further sum of $443,010.70.
Before any thing further was done, Congress, by a resolution
of the 9th of February, 1871, 16 Stat. 702, repealed the resolution of the 15th of July, 1870, under which the last adjustment
was made, and by the act of March 3, 1871, 16 Stat. 519,
directed that no part of the money thereby appropriated for
the use of the Post-office Department should "be applied to
the payment of what is known as the Chorpenning claim."
Upon analyzing the resolution of 1870, it is f-ound to contain
the following provisions: 1. The Postmaster-General was
anthorized to "investigate and adjust" anew the claims of
George Chorpenning under the first section of the act of 1857,
"on the basis of compensation allowed by said act for regular
mail service." 2. "And the claim growing out of the curtailment and annulment of his contract on route No. .12,801, on
the basis of his agreement with the Postmaster-General for the
service, to be settled as provided for the services named in said
act." 3. "And the right of appeal from the proceedings of the
Postmaster-General to the Court of Claims" was "reserved
and allowed to the said claimant."
The act of 1857 became defunct by what occurred under it
in that year. It was in no wise revived by the resolution of
1870. It was only referred to by that resolution for the rules
and basis upon which the new adjustment authorized was to
proceed.
The question before us is as to the effect of the repealing
resolution of 1871. In considering that subject, the act of
1857 may be laid out of view, and will not be further adverted to.
The resolution relied upon by the appellant was wholly

Oct. 1876.]

CHORPENNING V. UNITED STATES.

unilateral. It contained no stipulation of 'payment,. express or
implied. Congress, for its own reasons, simply directed an
examination and adjustment. It gave no promise and came
under no obligation to the other party, and asked and received
none from him. The government and the claimant stood, and
continued to stand, wholly independent of each other. The
government could at any time before payment recall what it
had done, and the claimant was at liberty up to the same period
to refuse concurrence, and assert aliunde his legal rights, if any
he had. Prior to that time there could be no vested right and
no commitment of either party, net subject to the exercise
thereafter of such discretion, affirmative or negative, as might
be deemed proper. The case presents the same legal aspect as
if it were between individuals. If a merchant should direct his
clerk or other agent to "investigate and adjust the 6laim" of a
third party upon a prescribed basis, and the adjistmentwas made
accordingly, can it be doubted that the merchant night thereafter, because he had come to the conclusion that the claim was
tainted with fraud or had been already fully paid, or for any oiber
reason, or as a matter of choice, without assigning any reason,
decline to recognize what had been done as of any validity, and
withdraw the authority under which the proceeding had been
taken?
The reason of the right would be that there was no binding
mutuality of assent, no consideration, and hence no legal obligation resting upon either party. The duty devolved upon the
Postmaster-General was wholly mimisterial, and in no sense
judicial, or that of an arbitrator. The record discloses no element
of an arbitrament. The adjustment, having been made under a
special law, renders it in no wise different as regards the point
we are considering from those made daily by the accounting
officers of the government, under the general law conferring
their powers and prescribing their duties. The idea that the
government is finally coicluded "bythe results' at which they
may arrivd would be regarded as a novelty within and without
the several departments.
The implication from the repeal of the resolution of 1870,
and the prohibition in the act of 1871, is clear that Congress
-lid not intend that any thing more should be paid to the

400,

UNITED STATES V. MARTIN.

[Sup. Ct.

claimant without further authority from that body. United
States v. Babbitt, 1 Black, 55. This case is not distinguishable
in principle from Gordon v. United States, 7 Walk 188. Aside
from the views we have expressed, that adjudication is conclusive as authority against the appellant.
Our attention has been called by the counsel on both sides to
the clause of the resolution giving the claimant the right of
appeal from the findings of the Postmaster-General to the Court
of Claims. The view which we take of the case renders it
unnecessary to consider that point, and we express no opinion
upon the subject.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. MAxI.
1. The act of Congress of June 25, 1868 (15 Stat. 77), declaring that eight hours
shall constitute a day's work for all laborers, workmen, and mechanics employed by or on behalf of the government of the United States, is in the
nature of a direction by the government to its agents.
2. It is not a contract between the government and its laborers, that eight hours
shall constitute a day's work. It neither prevents the government from
making agreements with them, by which their labor may be more or less
than eight hours a day, nor does it prescribe the amount of compensation
for that or any other number of hours' labor.
8. Where, therefore, a laborer, in the habit of working for the government twelve
hours a day, for $2.50 a day, is informed by the proper authority that, if
he remains in the service at that compensation, he must continue to work
twelve hours a day, and he does so continue, and is paid accordifigly, he
cannot afterwards recover for the additional time over eight hours as a day's
labor.
4. An allowance by the government, upon the application of the laborer, of a
sum for the excess of time over eight hours per day, is, when accepted by
him in full of the account, a bar to any further claim.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.
This was a petition filed by Martin against the United States.
The court below found the following facts: 1. In the year 1866 or 1867 the claimant was employed by
the foreman of the steam-heating and gas works at the Naval
Academy, at Annapolis, to work for the defendants at $2.50 a
day, with the understanding that during the season of steaming,
which was from the 1st of October to the 1st of June, his time

