810

TownsiP OF BURLINGTON v. BEASLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

pany had, by non-user of that part of the canal which constituted the locus in quo, forfeited its title and its right of
exemption from taxation; and testimony was given to prove
this non-user.
But we are of opinion that the question of such forfeiture
could only be established by a direct proceeding on the part of
the public authorities, and a decision to that effect in a proper
tribunal, and cannot be made an issue for the first time in the
trial of this question of private right between the present parties.
Judgment affirmed.

TOWNSHIP OF BURLINGTON v. BEASLEY.
Where a statute of Kansas authorized towns or counties to issue bonds "for the
purpose of building bridges, or to aid in the construction of railroads, waterpower, or other works of internal improvement," and where another statute
declared all custom grist-mills to be "public mills," and regulated their management, -Held, that bonds issued by a town of that State, to aid in the construction and equipment of a steam custom mill owned by an individual, were
authorized by the statute.

IN error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas.
This was a suit brought in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Kansas, by Alfred W. Beasley, against
the township of Burlington, in the county of Coffey, and
State of Kansas, to recover the amount due upon sixty-four
coupons, each for the sum of twenty-five dollars, together with
interest thereon. Of these coupons, as well as of the bonds to
which they had been originally attached, the said Beasley
averred himself to have become the true and lawful owner and
holder for value before maturity, and also to be such owner at
the commencement of his suit.
The bonds to which these coupons had been attached are a
part of a series of sixteen bonds, each for the sum of 8500, the
whole amounting to the sum of $8,000, issued by said township
Dec. 3, 1872, to aid one John S. Stow in the construction and
completion and to furnish the motive power of a steam custom
grist-mill in said township, -the
same belonging to the said

Oct. 1876.]

TOWNSHIP OF EURLINGTON v. BEASLEY.

811

Stow, and not being situated on a watercourse, or operated by
water-power.
A copy of one of said bonds is as follows, to wit: "$500.]

Boi-N

OF BURLINGTo

TowNsHIP.

[No. 1.

"County of Coffey, State of KYansas.
"UNITED

STATES OF AMERICA.

"Burlington Township, in the county of Coffey, State of
Kansas, promises to pay John S. Stow, or bearer, the sum of $500,
on the third day of December, A.D. 1877, and interest thereon at
the rate of ten per cent -per annum, payable semi-annually, upon
presentation of the coupons therefor, hereto annexed: both principal and interest payable at the banking-house of Northrup
Chick, in the city of New York.
"This bond is one of an issue of $8,000, made for the purpose
of aiding internal improvements in said township, and in pursuance
of an act of the legislature of the State of Kansas, entitled ' An
Act to authorize counties, incorporated cities, and municipal townships to issue bonds for the purpose of building bridges, aiding in
the construction of railroads, water-power, or other works of internal improvement, and providing for the registration of such bonds,
the registration of other bonds, and the repealing of all laws in
conflict therewith,' approved March 2, 1872.
"In testimony whereof, the township trustee, clerk, and treasurer
have caused this bond to be issued, duly signed, attested, and
countersigned, this third day of December, A.D. 1872.
"IR R. FT.ooK, Trustee.

"Attest: G. N. McCowNELL, Clerk.
"Countersigned: H. L. JARBOE, Treasurer."
The following is a copy of one of the coupons sued upon,

to wit: -

,,$25.00.]

[No. 8.

"The treasurer of Burlington Township, Coffey County, Kansas,
will pay to the bearer twenty-five dollars, at the banking-house of
Northrup & Chick, in the city of New York, on the third day of
June, A.D. 1874, for six months' interest on bond No. 1, issued on
the third day of December, A.D. 1872.
"Attest: G. N. MCCONNELL, Township Clerk.
H. R. FLOOK, Townshp Trustee."

812

TowNsHIP OF BURLINGTON V. BEASLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

The case comes here on a certificate of division upon the
following questions "First, Does the second count of the defendant's answer set up
a sufficient defence to the action ?
"1Second,Said bonds having been issued to aid a steam custom
grist-mill, not situated on a watercourse, or operated by waterpower, was there any power or authority to issue the same ?
1 Third, If there was no such power or authority, are the bonds
containing the recital therein appearing valid in the hands of a
holder thereof for value before maturity, who has no notice of the
purpose for which the same were issued, other than as shown by
the face of the bonds?"
The plaintiff recovered judgment, and the town now brings
the case here by writ of error.
Mr. A. A
. Bandolph, for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. A. L. Williams, contra.
MR. JUSTICE HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.

The bonds which are the foundation of this action purport
upon their face to be issued by virtue of an act of the legislature of-the State of Kansas, approved March 2, 1872, of which
the title is given in the bonds. They contain no specific statement of the purpose for which they were issued. There is nothing upon their face to indicate fraud, unlawful assumption of
authority, or irregularity. If there was, in fact and in law, authority in the town under any circumstances to issue its bonds,
and if these bonds bear the impress of such authority, there is
nothing to vitiate them when taken by bona fide holders.
The second answer alleges that the bonds were issued to
John S. Stow to aid in the construction and completion and to
furnish the motive power of a steam custom grist-mill in the
town of Burlington, that an election to determine whether
they should be thus issued was held under the provihions of
the statute referred to, and that a majority of the qualified
electors of the town voted in favor of issuing the bonds. Certain proceedings between Stow and the town are also set forth,
but as they are not referred to in the briefs, it is not necessary
here to allude to them.
The principal contestation of the plaintiff in error is that it

Oct. 1876.]

TOwNsHIP or BURLINGTON V. BEASLEY.

313

had no power to issue the bonds in question under the statute
of March, 1872. Statutes of Kansas, 1872, c. 68, 110.
The first section of this act provides that the trustee, clerk,
or treasurer of any municipal township is empowered to issue
its bonds "for the purpose of building bridges, free or otherwise, or to aid in the construction of railroads or water-power,
by donation thereto or the taking of stock therein, or for other
works of internal improvement."
Certain restrictions and
conditions are imposed, in relation to which no question here
arises.
If the motive power intended to be used by Mr. Stow, and
to aid in the construction of which these bonds were issued,
had been that of water accumulated by dams and discharged
upon wheels, the purpose would have been within the specific
language of the act. To aid in the construction of "waterpower" is one of the purposes named. But the mill was a
steam-mill. It was a custom grist-mill operated by steam.
Does such an establishment fall within the description of
"other works of intinal improvement"? This expression is
usually applied to railroads and canals. To confine it to those
two subjects would be to give to the statute a narrow construction; and that it was not so intended is evident from the ninth
section, where "1a bridge or other work of internal improvement, except railroads," is three times spoken of. Similar
language is used in the eleventh section and in the twelfth
section of the act.
A state-house is an internal improvement, as is a county
c9urt-house, a jail, or a penitentiary (Commissioners of Leavenworth Co. v. Miller, 7 Kan. 479), as much as is a railroad, a
canal, or a bridge. A mill run by water is declared to be an
internal improvement by the statute we are considering. A
ferry falls within the same principle, and so does a steam-mill.
It would require great nicety of reasoning to give a definition of
the expression "internal improvement," which should include
a grist-mill run by water, and exclude one operated by steam;
or which would show that the means of transportation were
more valuable to the people\ of Kansas than the means of
obtaining bread. It would be a poor 6onsolation te th" people
of this town to give them the power of going in and out of the

314

TOWNSHIP OF BURLINGTON V. BEASLEY.

[SUp. CL

town upon a railroad, while they were refused the means of
grinding their wheat.
Railroads, turnpikes, buildings, bridges, ferries, reclaiming
swamps, and the like, are no doubt improvements. If such
improvement is within the limits of a town or county, it is
internal to such town or county.
The statute of Kansas upon the subject of grist-mills is based
upon the idea, and, indeed, upon the declaration, that all gristmills are public institutions. In c. 65 of the statute of 1868,
p. 673, it is thus enacted: "All water, steam, or other mills,
whose owners or occupiers grind or offer to grind grain for toll
or pay, are hereby declared public mills." Regulation is then
made for the order in which customers shall be attended to
(firit come first served), the liability of the miller, his duty in
assisting to load and unload, and that the rates of toll shall be
conspicuously posted.
Under our recent decision in Munn v. Illinois, supra, p. 112,
and the other cases upon kindred subjects, it would be competent to the legislature of Kansas to regqlate the toll to be taken
at these mills. It is a reasonable construction of this statute
to hold that aid to this mill is aid of a public work within its
meaning, and that the construction and equipment of a steam
grist-mill was an internal improvement.
The case of Loan Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 661,
will adjudge these bonds to be legal. The point is there
expressly made that bonds, when issued for a public purpose,
a public use, which it is the right and the duty of the State
government to assist, are valid. The issue we axe considering
falls within this definition.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JuSTIcE Fi;LD dissented.

