DAVIS V. OROUCH.

[Sup. C .

DAVIS v. CROUCH.
This court has no jurisdiction to re-examine the decree of the highest court of
a State, reversing that of an inferior court, and remanding the cause for fur
ther proceedings.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of Appeals of the State of
Virginia.
Hector Davis died during the late civil war, at Richmond,
Va., leaving a will executed March 21, 1859, as follows: "1RicHaoNr,

March 21, 1859.

"I, Hector Davis, of city of Richmond, State of Virginia, do
hereby make this my last will and testament: Item 1st, I give to my
nieces, Jannie, Sally, and Bettie Davis, the sum of $15,000, to be
equally divided between them. I give to a servant-woman, Ann,
of mine, her freedom, to be removed out of the State, with her four
children, Jannie, Audubon, and Victoria, and after their removalthe sum of $20,000, she, Ann, to have the interest on one-fifth of
the amount, and the interest of the balance to be expended in
raising the said children till they become of age; then the principal
to be given them. I wish said amount to be invested in State
stock by my executors, and applied as aforesaid.
"I give my nephew, R. D. James, of Goochland, the sum of
$5,000. Whatever balance I may be worth, I want given to my
sister, Ann Crouch, and her children. I appoint R. D. James and
Franklin Matthews my executors to this my last will and testament.
"As witness my hand and seal.
"HECTOR DAvis.
"Witnesses: B. W. ELmORE.
S. N. DAvis."
This will was admitted to probate in the Cifcuit Court of the
city of Richmond, March 13, 1863, when James alone qualified
as executor. The servant-woman Ann and her children are the
present plaintiffs in error, and are known in the pleadings as
Ann Davis, Jannie Davis, Audubon Davis, Victoria Davis, and
Matilda Davis. They were removed at some time to Philadelplia, but whether before or after the death of the testator,

Oct. 1876.]

,

DAVIS V. CROUCH.

15115

does not appear, though they seem to have been there during
the war.
The estate was large, consisting of real property, slaves,
bank and other stocks, a small amount of Confederate bonds,
debts due the testator, and some furniture. All the parties
interested in the settlement of the estate resided in the Confederate States during the war, except Ann Davis and her
children.
The personal property, exclusive of debts due the estate,
was valued at $91,020. Feb. 20, 1864, leave was-granted the
executor by that court, upon his petition therefor, to invest the
cash on hand belonging to the estate in interest-bearing bonds
or certificates of the Confederate States, or of the State of
Virginia, or any other sufficient bonds or securities in that
State. Under this order he invested, during the months of
April, July, and November of that year, $33,508.82 of Confederate currency in Confederate bonds. A part of the slaves
were sold, but nearly all the remainder of the personal and
real property, except the debts, was retained during the war in
the condition it was left by the testator at his death.
At the close of the war, proceedings were instituted in the
Chancery or Circuit Court of the city of Richmond against
the executor by the residuary legatees, looking toward a settlement of the estate; and, Nov. 9, 1865, the executor filed in
that court a bill in chancery against all the legatees, including Ann Davis and her children, to have the whole estate
settled up and distributed among the parties entitled thereto.
In these proceedings the executor was ordered to render an
account of his tiansactions before one of the commissioners of
the court, who was directed to take an account of all the assets
belonging to the estate, and of all claims due by the same. A
report was filed by the commissioner, Feb. 16, 1868, to which
exceptions were taken both by the executor and the residuary
legatees; and, May 19, 1869, the report was recommitted to
the commissioner, with the exceptions, for further examination,
and a restatement of the accounts, if necessary. Nov. 16, 1869,
Ann Davis and her children appeared, and, by leave of the
court, filed an answer to the bill of the executor, in which
they claimed their full rights, and particularly objected to the

DAvis v. CROUCH.

[Sup. Ct.

investments in Confederate bonds, as unauthorized and illegal,
so far as they were concerned. A second report was filed by the
commissioner, May 4, 1870, from which, with that of 1868, it
appeared that the debts owing by the estate amounted to about
$23,000; that there was in the hands of the executor United
States currency to the amount of $14,188.54; that the estimated
value of the real estate was $15,435; that the estimated value
of Virginia State stock and furniture was $1,524; and that
there were also in the hands of the executor debts due the
estate, marked "good" or" doubtful," of the nominal amount of
$40,000 and more. In stating the account, the executor was
allowed a credit for his investments in Confederate bonds.
Many exceptions were filed to the report by the residuary
legatees, and, among others, because the executor was credited
with the amount of these investments, and because he had not
been "charged with every debt reported by him 'good' and
every debt reported by him ' doubtful,' unless he had obtained
judgments upon them, because it was his duty to have obtained
judgments against all who did not pay and were not deemed
insolvent."
At the hearing in the Circuit Court both these exceptions
were overruled, and a decree entered confirming the report, with
some modifications. From this decree Ann Davis and the
residuary legatees took an appeal to the Supreme Court of
Appeals of the State, where the following judgment was entered April 22, 1873 "This day came again the parties by their counsel, and the court,
having maturely considered the transcript of the record of the
decree aforesaid, and the arguments of counsel, is of opinion, for
reasons stated in writing and filed with the record, that the said
Chancery Court erred In overruling the appellant's fifteenth exception to the report of Commissioner Evans; instead of doing which,
the said court ought to have recommitted the said report, as to
the matter of the exception, to a commissioner of the court, with
instructions to make further inquiry, and report as to the debts of
the estate of Hector Davis at the time of his death, by persons
residing in the State; whether any of said debts, and which of
them reported as worthless or doubtful, are now available, or might
havebeen collected or secured by lien upon real estate or other-

Oct. 1876.]

DAVIS V. CROUCH.

wise, or by suits instituted since the death of the testator, and as
to any other matters connected with said debts which the said
commissioner might deem material, or concerning which either of
the parties might require him to make inquiry and report; but the
court is further of 6pinion that there is no other error in the said
decree than as aforesaid. Therefore, it is decreed and ordered that so
much of the said decree as is above declared to be erroneous be
reversed and-annulled, and the residue thereof affirmed; and that
tbe appellee, R. D. James, pay to the appellants their costs by them
expended in the prosecution of their appeal afbresaid here. And
it is ordered that this cause be remanded to the said Chancery
Court for further proceedings to be had therein, in conformity with
the foregoing opinion and decree, which is ordered to be certified
to the said Chancery Court of the city of Richmond."
This judgment has been brought here by Ann Davis and
her children upon a writ of error, and the executor now moves
to dismiss the writ, because the judgment of the Court of
Appeals is not the final judgment or decree in the suit.
MTr. J. Randolph Tacker for the plaintiffs in error.
Mrf. Conway Bobinson, contra.

MR. Cmirs' JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
Our jurisdiction upon writs of error to State courts is confined to the final judgment or decree in a suit in the highest
court in which a decision in the suit can be had. Rev. Stat.
709. This, we think; is not such a judgment. It decides
some of the questions involved in the controversy between the
parties, but the suit itself has been sent back to the 6ircuit
Court for further proceedings, in conformity to the opinion
filed with the record. In short, the judgment is one of reversal
only, which, as we have uniformly held, is not a final judgment
in the suit. Mc Comb v. Commissioners, 91 U. S.1; Parcels v.
Johnson, 20 Wall. 654; Tracy v. Holcomb, 24 How. 427. After
the further proceedings which have been ordered in the Circuit
Court, the suit may be again taken to the Court of Appeals,
and another judgment rendered there.
The object of the parties is to settle and distribute the estate
of the testator under the direction of the court. The plaintiffs

THE

"EDITH."

[Sup. Ct,

in error are only interested in securing the payment of their
legacy. A statement of the accounts of the executor, upon
the principles settled by the Court of Appeals, may produce a
fund sufficient to satisfy them. The only queition upon which
our jurisdiction can be invoked arises out of the decision as to
the liability of the executor to account for his investments in
Confederate securities. As to this, the present plaintiffs in
error, having been non-residents of the Confederate territory
during the war, occupy a different position from the other
parties; and, until the suit has been finally disposed of in the
State courts, the fund ascertained, and the results of a decree
ordering distribution known, we cannot tell whether they will
be injuriously affected by the errors now complained of. They
cannot bring the case here for the benefit of the other parties
interested in the estate, except so far as the relief granted to
them may indirectly operate to the advantage of the others.
If in the end, upon the distribution of the estate under the
principles of accounting as now established, they shall not be
able to obtain payment of the amount due them, the case may
be again taken to the Court of Appeals upon the future decree
of the Circuit Court, and from there here, if necessary. Whether
their interest in the convertible value of the Confederate currency invested in Confederate bonds for the purchase of State
stock is sufficient to justify them in doing so, will be a matter
for them to determine, after the final decree shall have been
rendered.
In the present condition of the suit, however, we are compelled to dismiss the writ for want of jurisdiction.
Writ dismissed.

THn , EDiTH."
1. Under the maritime law, there is no lien upon a vessel for materials furnished
and work done in repairing her at hey home port.
2. A creditor, claiming the benefit of the provisions of the statute of New York,
passed April 24, 1862, which purport to give such a lien, must, whether they
be invalid or not, - a point which the court deems it unnecessary in this
case to decide, -take it subject to all the conditions which they impose;
and he loses it if it be not enforced within the time prescribed. Where a

