DAVIS V. iNDIANA.

LSup.

C

1. Because the mechanicAJ means employed by the respondents tp effect the result are substantially diferent from those
described in the complainants' patent.
2. Because the process employed by the respondents to manufacture the described product is mateiially and substantially
different from the patented process employed by the corn-.
plainants.
8. Because the respondents do not infringe the combination
of mechanism patented and employed by the complainants.
Prouty v. Bquggles, 16 Pet. 841; Vance v. Campbell, 1 Black,
428 ; Gill v. Wells, 22 Wall. 26.
4. Because the respondents do not infringe the process patented by the complainants, the rule being, that a process, like
a combination, is an entirety, and that the charge of infringement in such a case is not made out unless it is alleged and
proved that the entire process is employed by the respondents.
Howe v. Abbott, 2 Story, C. C. 194; Gould2 v. Bees, 15 Wall.
193.

DAvIS v. I NDI

A.

1. The Supreme Court of Indiana having decided in this case that the moneys
arising from section 16 in each congressional township of that State, all of
which are to be paid into the county treasury by the Echool trustee, form
a part of the school fund which the county auditor is required to distribute
to the various townships in the county, and that, in so doing, he is bound
by the proviso in the act of March 4, 1855, "that in no case shall the congressional township fund be diminished by such distribution, and diverted
to any other township," this court affirms the decision.
2. This court adheres to the ruling in Sprinyfldd Township v. Quick, 22 How. 56,
that the right of the inhabitants of the several congressional townships
in that State to such moneys for the use of schools in the township where
section 16 lies is sufficiently protected by that proviso.

EIRoR to the Supreme Court of the State of Indiana.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. Balh Hill for the
plaintiff in error, and by Mr. S. Stansifer, contra.
MR. JusTcIC

MIrLR delivered the opinion of the court.

The Congress of the United States, in the act admitting Indiana as a State, declared that every sixteenth section of a

Oct. 1876.]

DAVIS V. INDIANA.

township, according to the legal subdivisions of the public
lands lying within that State, should be appropriated for the
use of schools within the township.
An act of the legislature of the State, prior to 1854, directed
that the money derived from these sixteenth sections should be
mingled with school moneys, derived from taxation and various
other sources, into a common fund, and should be apportioned
among the counties of the State, according to an enumeration of
the pupils in each county. As this might have resulted in the
diversion of some of the money derived from the congressional
grant to the schools of other townships than that in which
the land lay, it was, in a proper suit, declared by the Supreme
Court of the State to be invalid. &ate v. SpringfieZ Townslid,
6 Ind. 83.
An act was accordingly passed, in March, 1855, providing
anew for the distribution of this common fund, which contained
this proviso: "That in no case shall the congressional township
fundhe diminished by such distribution, and diverted to any
other township."
Under this act, while the whole fund derived from the interest on the proceeds of the sale of these lands, or the rent of
them if unsold, could not be diminished or diverted to schools
in other townships, the common fund arising from other sources
was so distributedas to equalize the whole among the schools
"of all the counties; that is, if a township had an ascertained
sum arising from the sixteenth section, it received none of the
school fund derived from other sources until all other townships
had received from those other sources an amount which made
them equal to that sum, having regard to the number of pupils,
as ascertained by the legal census.
The same township of Springfield brought another suit to
test the validity of this act; and the Supreme Court of Indiana
having affirmed it, 7 Ind. 636, the township brought the case
to this court, on the ground that the act of the legislature was
in conflict with the act of Congress. This court, while holding
that it was the intent of the act of Congress that the money
arising frofn the sii eenth section should be used only for
schools within the congressional townships where the section
lay, was of opinion that the proviso we have cited from the

DAVIS V. INDIANA.

[Sup. Ct

Indiana statute sufficiently protected the right of the people of
the township, and that it was competent for the legislature of
Indiana to place the people of other townships on an equality
with them in regard to educational means, out of funds of the
State derived from other sources, and that in so doing they did
not violate the conditions of the trust on which the State received those lands. Springfield Township v. Quick, 22 How. 56.
There seems to have been no further trouble in this matter,
until, by an act of the legislature of 1813, the school trustee,
who was treasurer of the township, and who had previously
collected and distributed the mdney arising from this school
section, was directed to pay all the money so received by him
into the treasury of the county. The present plaintiff in error
refused to do this, and, being sued by the proper county officers
for the money in his hands, set up in defence that the act requiring him to do so was void.
The ground on which this proposition is supported by counsel
is, that there is no provision of law in Indiana by which this
money, when paid into the county treasury, can be withdrawn,
or if withdrawn, can be applied to the use of schools in the
proper congressional township.
It is not contended by counsel that the legislature of Indiana
could not provide as it might deem best for the custody of this
money, nor is it argued that a similar power could not be exercised as to the proper officer to make distribution of it, and
direct its expenditure. The whole argument rests on the assumed results of the Indiana statutes, that while the school
trustee, who is treasurer of the school board, was by the law,
as it stood prior to 1878, authorized to collect and distribute
the fund, he is now directed to pay it into a treasury where it
cannot, by law, be distributed as the act of Congress requires.
It is,, therefore, argued that this amendatory law is void, and
that the trustee has still the right to collect and distribute the
money, and cannot be made to pay it into the county treasury.
The" Supreme Court of Indiana, in the opinion, which is a
part of the record in this case, have decided that the school
laws of that State do authorize the auditor of each county to
distribute the school fund in the county treasury to the different
toivnships in the county, and that in doing so he is bound by.

Oct. 1876.]

DAvis v. INDIANS.

the proviso we have already cited, which preserves to each con
gressional township the funds arising from the sale of the sixteenth section ; and they also decide that the money paid into
the county treasury by the school trustee, arising from that
section, is a part of the fund which the auditor is to apportion,
subject to that proviso. That court, as it will be seen, construes the statute of its own State in a manner which this court
has already decided to be in harmony with the act of Congress.;
and we are asked by counsel to decide that the Supreme Court
of Indiana, in thus construing the statute, is in error; and to
make a construction of it, by which it will conflict with the act
of Congress, and be, therefore, void, merely that one officer
may have distribution of the fund instead of another.
Our convictions should be very clear before we do this, even
if we have the right to do it, which may admit of some question.
Fortunately, we concur in the view of these laws taken by
that court.
The school laws of the State are voluminous and complex,
and are all referred to in the briefs. A full examination of
them is unnecessary here.
Sect. 1-18 provides that"The auditor of each county shall, on, &c., make apportionment
of the school revenue to which his county may be entitled, to the
several townships, towns, and cities of his county, which apportionment shall be paid to the school treasurer of each township and incorporated city or town by the county treasurer; and, in making the
apportionment and distribution thereof, the auditor shall ascertain
the amount of the congressional-township school revenue belonging
to each city, town, and township, and shall so apportion the other
school revenue for tuition to each city, town, and township, as near
as may be, according to the enumeration of children therein: P.vind, however, that in no case shall the income of the congressionaltownship fund, belonging to any congressional township, or part of
such township, be diminished by such apportionment, or diverted or
distributcd to any other township, and report the amount appor.
tioned to the State superintendent of public instructions, verified
by affidavit."
We have here the proper authority for the apportionment
and distribution of the school fund in the county treasury which

MELENDY V. R C.[

t
[Sup. at,

shall be paid to the school treasurer of each township. This
school treasurer is the very officer who has collected and paid
this fund into the treasury of the county under the amendment
of 1873.
The argument is that this section only applied to the school
fund from other sources, and could not apply to this, because it
was not payable into the county treasury when the section was
enacted.
But let us suppose that the legislature had by statute increased
the fund in the county treasury from other sources, as by giving
to it some penalty for violation of a new statute, would it require an express provision to authorize the auditor to apportion
that with what the treasurer was receiving before? The question answers itself. 'The fund- the whole fund in the county
treasury devoted to the use of schools- was to be apportioned,
and if the fund arising from the sixteenth section becomes a
part of it, it must be distributed. And the statute carefully
provides, that, in making that distribution, the appropriation of
the sixteenth section to the schools of the township shall be
strictly observed.
It is unnecessary to protract the argument, for we fully
concur with the opinion of the Supreme Court of Indiana conJudgment affirmed.
struing their own statute.

M=LN-DY

v. RimE

Where the judgment of the highest court of a State is here for re-examination,
the Federal question, which, it is claimed, arises in the record, will be considered here as it comes from that court. Whef therefore, the point there
arising was whether the evidence in the recort sustained a finding of fact
upon which the judgment of an inferior court had been entered, and the appellate court was permitted by its rules to set aside the judgment as against
the weight of evidence only where there was no evidence to support it, or such
an absence of evidence that it might be presumed to have been given through
the influence of prejudice, passion, or favor, this court will not, upon a question of preponderance of testimony alone, reverse the judgment of the latter
court. So Add, where the question below was, whether a party, when he purchased property, had reasonable cause to believe that his vendor was insolvent,
and was making the sale in fraud of the bankrupt law.

