SULLIVAN V. PORTLAND,

E. R.tA. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

public wish at the time of their passage, the evident principle

being to give every facility and aid, by the means suggested, to
obtain a line of completed railroad to the eastern boundary of

the State. Subsequent evens have given more prominence to
the question of paying the bonds than it then bad.
The case falls directly within Nugent v. The Supervisors,
supra, which holds that a subscriber is released from his subscription by a subsequent alteration of the organization and purposes of the company only when the alteration is a fundamental
one, not contemplated either by the charter of the company or
thfe general statutes of the State. The statute authorizing the.
alteration of the charter in that case closely resembled the stature
we have above quoted in relation to the roads in question.
To the same general effect are gountu of Callaway v. Foster,
93 U. S. 567, and County of Scottan v. Thomas, supra, p. 682.
The decision in ffarshman v. Bates County, 92 U. S. 569, does

not interfere with this principle. The distinction is clearly
shown hy Mr. Justice Bradley, who pronounced the opinion
in- each of the last two cases. The like remarks are applicable
to AIarsh v. Fulton, 10 Wall. 677, and they show that that
decision does not affect the questions here discussed.
Judgment affirmed.

SuLLWiAv

v. PORTLAND

AND

IKmBo

RAHmOAD

A railroad company, on the 80th of April, 1850, mortgaged to trustees a specifically described portion of its road to secure certain certificates of indebtedneis
bearing interest at the rate of ten per cent per annum. Subsequent mortgages,
covering the entire line of road, were madv.. As the work progressed, the
company issued certificates of preferred stock, on which dividends of ten per
cent per annum were to be paid. In October, 1852, the company made a proposition to waive, until Nov. 1, 1870, its right to redeem at pleasure the portion
mortgaged, provided the holders of the certificates of indebtedof its road first
ness would, by indorsement thereon, authorize the trustees, after paying the
holders three per cent semiannually on the said certificates, to pay over semiannually to the treasurer of the company, for its use and benefit, the balance
of the income (for interest) which the stockholders were then entitled to
receive, viz., two per cent, to be held'by him, and appropriated, as far as might
be required, or as the same might go, to the payment of interest to such pre
ferred stockholders as should surrender their old certificates and receive new

Oct. 1876.]

SULLIVAN v. PORTLAND, ETC. R.R. Co.

certificates of preferred stock, hearing three per cent interest or income semiannually in lieu of five per cent, as then stipulated. The company authorized
the president to issue such new certificates of preferred stock, and to waive
the right to redeem. None of the holders, of the preferred stock accepted the
proposition until Sept. 1, 1853. The trustees of the second mortgage foreclosed; the bondholders formed a new corporation, and have operated and
owned the road since November, 1862. The holders of the new certificates of
preferred stock filed their bill, Feb. 21, 1871, to recover the four per cent per
annum relinquished under the first mortgage. On final hearing, the bill was
dismissed. Held, 1. That there is no privity between the complainants and the
new corporation. 2. That there was no privity between the holders of the certificates under the first mortgage and the preferred stockholders. 3. That the
defence of the Statute of Limitations not having been set up by plea or answer,
the case in that aspect cannot be considered. 4. That as the complainants,
if they could recover the moneys claimed, would be entitled to jdiscovery and
an account, the objection that they have a remedy at law is not available.
Where such an objection lies, it is the duty of the court sua sponte to take
notice of it, and give it effect. 5. That it is not necessary, in order to let in a
defence that the claim is stale, that a foundation should be laid by any averment in the answer. Where the facts disclose aches and neglect on the part
of the complainant, the court will refuse relief.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Maine.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Submitted on printed arguments by A1fr. A. C. Stinc1hfield
for the appellant, and by Hr. James WF Bradbury for the
appellee.
Mit. JUSTICE SAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The Kennebec and Portland Railroad Company was authorized to build a railroad from Portland to Augusta, both in the
State of Maine.

On the 30th of Apiil, 1850, that portion of the road between
North Yarmouth and Portland, about twelve miles in length,
was mortgaged to Ruel Williams, John Patten, and J. B. Car-

roll, trustees, to secure the payment of $202,400 advanced to
the company by the cestuis que truat.

The debt wad repre-

sented by certificates bearing interest at the rate of ten per
cent per annum.

On the 1st of November, 1850, the company mortgaged the
whole line of the road to the commissioners of the sinking fund
to secure $800,000 lent to the company by other parties.

On the 17th of October, 1851, the road and franchises were

SULLIVAN V. PO-TLAND, ETC. RR. Co.

[Sup. Ut

mortgaged to John Patten, Joseph McKeen, and M. S. Hagar,
in trust to secure bonds issued by the company to the amount
of $230,000, known as first mortgage bonds.
On the 15th of October, 1852, the road and franchises were
mortgaged to the same trustees to secure the payment of a
further issue of bonds to the amount of $250,000, known as the
second mortgage bonds.
In the progress of the work on the road, the company issued
certificates of preferred stock, known as old preferred stock, to
the amount of $240,000. On this stock dividends of ten per
cent per annum were to be paid. Two hundred thousand
dollars of it in amount is averred to. be still outstanding.
On the 7th of October, 1852, a proposition was made by the
company to the following effect The company was to waive its existing right to redeem at
pleasure its road from North Yarmouth to Portland, and to
make it irredeemable until Nov. 1, 1870, provided the holders
of the certificates of indebtedness would, by indorsement
thereon, authorize the trustees, after paying the holders three
per cent semiannually upon the amounts severally represented
by such certificates, "to pay over semiannually to the treasurer
of the company, for the use and benefit of the company, the
balance of the income (for interest) which the stockholders
are now entitled to receive (viz., two per cent), to be held by
him and appropriated, as far as may be required, -or as the
same may go, to the payment of interest t& such preferred
stockholders as shall surrender their old certificates of stock
and receive new certificates of preferred stock bearing three
,per cent interest or income semiannually, in lieu of five per
cent, as now stipulated; said payment of three per cent to
the holders of said certificates and of the balance aforesaid to
the treasurer by said trustees semiannually, to be in full of the
annual income of ten per cent to which said certificate holders
are now entitled."
I twas ordered by the company, that if the proposed arrangement should be made with the North Yarmouth certificate
holders, the fund thereby saved should be applied in payment
of the dividends accruing on the new certificates of preferred
stock, as also proposed.

Oct. 1876.]

SULLIVAN V. PORTLAND, ETC. R.R. Co.

Authority was given to the president of the company to issue
such new certificates of preferred stock, and to waive the light
to redeem the North Yarmouth road until Nov. 1, 1870, the
time named in the proposition.
None of the holders of the preferred stock accepted this
proposition until Sept. 1, 1853. The first new certificate
bears date on that day. The other certificates were issued
subsequently.
On the 16th of December,. 1853, the company ordered three
per cent to be paid on the 1st of January then next to all the
holders of the new certificates for the preferred stock.
The company became hopelessly insolvent. The trustees of
the second mortgage foreclosed that mortgage. The foreclosure was perfected and became absolute in May, 1862. In
November, 1862, the bondholders under that mortgage formed
a new corporation, by the name of the Portland and Kennebec
Company. The trustees conveyed to this company. The company went into possession, and has since been in possession and
operated the road, and claimed to own it.
This bill is filed by the complainants as holders of the new
certificates of preferred stock, for themselves and in behalf of
the other holders not before the court.
The claim is to recover the four per cent per annum relinquished by the North Yarmouth holders of certificates of indebt.
edness, pursuant to the proposition of .the original company,
and which proposition was also to give to the holders of the
new certificates of preferred stoc'k what is claimed by this bill.
The Circuit Court, properly, as we think, decreed against the
complainants, and dismissed the bill. They have brought the
case before this court for review.
In the argument here they have insisted that the process
whereby the foreclosure of the second mortgage was effected
was irregular, without warrant of law, and -void; and that if
this were not so, the complainants upon the other facts of the
case are entitled to the relief sought.
The first proposition is conclusively negatived by the judgment of the Supreme Judicial Court of the State. The KenneK
bec & Portland Railroad Co. v. The Portland .ennebea
Railroad Co. and Others, 59 Me. 20.

SULLIVAN V. PORTLAND, ETC. R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Nothing more need be said upon that subject.
There is no privity between the complainants and the new
corporation. The agreement or arrangement relied upon was
made with the Kennebec and Portland Railroad Company.
The Portland and Kennebec Railroad Company was not in
existence when it was entered into.
There is no ground for insisting that the latter succeeded to
this liability of the former. The new company did not take
the property with any such onus. The liability rested wholly
on the contract of the parties by whom it was made. It did
not run with the property into the hands of those who acquired
it by the foreclosure. They did not assume the liability expressly or by implication. Hence neither they, nor those
claiming under them, are in any wise bound. The foundation
of the claim as to both is res inter alios acta.
Nor was there any privity whatever between the North Yarmouth creditors and the preferred stockholders. Whether the
stockholders did or did not receive what was surrendered by
the creditors, did not affect or concern the latter. The moneys
surrendered were to be paid over "semiannually to the treasurer of this company for the use and benefit of this company."
With such payment the duties of the trustees terminated.
Thereafter the company, was to apply the fund for the benefit
of such of the stockholders as should comply with the condition prescribed. There were two distinct propositions. One
to the debt-holders, the other to the stockholders. The latter
could get nothing unless the former accepted. But the acceptance of the former had no relation to the acceptance of the
latter. After the former accepted, the latter still bad the
option to accept or refuse. The indorsement required to be
made by'the debt-holders upon their certificates did not refer
)rrelate to the stockholders. When the arrangement between
the old company and the debt-holders was complete, it was
equally effectual and conclusive upon those parties, whether
the preferred stockholders did or did not thereafter take any
action. There was no assignment or transfer of any interest
in the mortgage. There was simply a release and extinguishment of so much of the liability secured, and, by consequence,
of the lien and existence of the mortgage to that extent.

Oct. 1876.]

SuLLivAN v. PORTLAND, ETC. R.R. Co.

Thereafter the liability and the mortgage were as if they had
never been for any thing more. The new company acquired
the ownership of the road, and its entire income, subject only
to the pre-existing mortgages. The source whence the fund in
question was to flow was destroyed by .the foreclosure. When
the latter was complete the former ceased to exist, and thenceforward was as if it had never been.
The defence of the Statute of Limitations is not set up by
plea nor in the answers. We cannot, therefore, consider the
case in that aspect. Wilson v. Anthony, 19 Ark. 16.
The objection that there is a remedy at law is only available
where such remedy is as plain, adequate, and effectual as the
remedy in equity. Boyce's MEecutors v. Grundy, 3 Pet. 215.
Here, if the complainants could recover the moneys claimed,
they would be entitled, also, to discovery, and an account.
Where this objection lies, it is -the duty of the court, sua
sponte, to take notice of it and give it effect. There is, in such
cases, a constitutional right to a trial by jury. Parkerv. The
Woollen Company, 2 Black, 545.
The charges of fraud and conspiracy in the bill are wholly
unsupported by the proofs.
To let in the defence that the claim is staley and-that-the
bill cannot, therefore, be- Supported, it is not necessary that a
foundation shall be laid by any averment in the answer of the
defendants. If the case, as it appears at the hearing, is liable
to the objection by reason of the laches of the complainants,
the court will, upon that ground, be passive, and refuse reliefEvery case is governed chiefly by its own circumstances; sometimes the analogy of the Statute of Limitations is applied;
sometimes a longer periqd than that prescribed by the statute
is required; in some cases a shorter time is sufficient; and
sometimes the rule is applied where there is no statutable bar.
It is competent for the court to apply the inherent principles
of its own system of jurisprudence, and to dedide accordingly.
Wilson v. Anthony, 19 Barber (Ark.), 16; Taylor v. Adams,
14 id. 62; Johnson v. Johnson, 5 Ala. 90; Person v. Sanger,
2 Ware, 256 ; Fisher v. Boody, 1 Curtis, 219 ; ,Cholmondly v.
Clinton, 2 Jac. & Walk. 141; 2 Story's Eq., sect. 1520 a.
"A court of equity, which is never active in giving relief

BowEN v. CHASE.

[Sup. Ot.

against conscience or public convenience, has always refused its
aid to stale demands where a party has slept upon his rights,
and acquiesced for a great length of time. Nothing can call
forth this court into activity but conscience, good faith, and
reasonable diligence. Where these are wanting, the court is
passive, and does nothing. Laches and neglect are always discountenanced; and, therefore, from the beginning of this jurisdiction there was always a limitation to suits in this court."
Smith v. Clay, Ambler, 645.
If the complainants had severally sought to enforce their
claim in an action at law, ex delicto or ex contractu, the bar of
the Statute of Limitations would have been complete after the
lapse of six years. Rev. Stat. of 1857, p. 510.
This bill was filed on the 21st of February, 1871.
The complainants were supine and silent for more than
seventeen years. In the mean time, the Kennebec and Portland
company became hopelessly and finally insolvent, and its affairs
a wreck. Proceedings were instituted to foreclose the second
mortgage, and brought to a close. The company lost all its
property, and has since existed only in name. A new corporation has come into existence, and acquired and owns all the
property and effects lost by the old one. This transfer occurred more than seven years before the first step was taken in
the present case. This long delay thus characterized is unaccounted for. The facts are amply sufficient to warrant the
application of the rule of laches, and to give it the fullest effect.
Decree affirmed.

BowE_
1. A trust, created in

v. CHAsE.

order to give a marrie3 woman the separate and exclusive
use of land, free from the control of her husband, will be sustained; by converting it into a legal estate, its purpose would be defeated, as, by virtue
of his marital rights, the laud would be placed under his control. So hed,
in regard to the effect of certain conveyances of land in New York, set
out in the opinion of the court, which were executed in 1827 and 1828 to
Michael Werckmeister by Stephen Jumel, upon certain trusts, which limited
a life-estate to the separate use of Eliza Brown Jumel, his wife, with a general power of appointment during her lifetime, and, on failure to make such
appointment, to her heirs in fee-simple.

