Oct. 1876.]

SOUTHERN EXPRESS Co. v. DICKSON.

of law. No facts are stated upon which the conclusion can be
sustained.
Whilst the statute giving liens to mechanics and laborers for
their work and labor is to be liberally construed, so as to afford
the security intended, it cannot be too strongly impressed upon
them, that they must not only bring themselves by their notices,
as was done in this case, clearly within the provisions of the
statute, but they must be prepared, if the priority of their lien
be disputed, to show a compliance with those provisions, and to
fix with certainty the commencement and completion of their
work; in which particulars the proof here is wanting.
The decree of the District Court of the Territory must,
therefore, be modified so as to give the mortgages held by the
defendant Davis a priority over the lien of Alvord in the distribution of the proceeds arising upon the sale of the interest
of the defendant Hendrie; and the cause will be remanded to
the Supreme Court of the Territory, with directions to modify
the decree in that respect; and it is
So ordered.

SouTniHN EXmItESS ComiPANY v. DiCmsoN.
An express company, well knowing that certain goods, received by it for transportation to a place mentioned in its receipt, were the property of the shipper,
delivered them, without his knowledge, to a third person, at the place of
shipment, on the order of the consignee. Reid, that the company was liable
to the shipper for the value of the goods.

ERroR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Alabama.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Clarence A. Seward, for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Conway Robinson and Mr. Leigh Robinson, contra.
delivered the opinion of the court.
The case, in brief, is this: The agent of the plaintiff Dickson
delivered to the express company at Greensboro', N. C., fiftytwo boxes of tobacco, to be shipped to Columbia, S. C. The
boxes were consigned to Trent & Rea at that place, and the
delivery to the company for shipment was made by Trent, one
MR. JUSTICE HUNT

550

SOUTHERN EXPRESS Co. v. DICKSON.

[Sup. Ct.

of that firm, who at the time informed the company that the
tobacco was the property of the plaintiff. A written receipt
was given by the company in the usual form. The boxes never
left Greensboro', but were, without authority of the owner, sold
by Trent to one Mendenhall, to whom, by the order of Trent,
they were delivered by the company at Greensboro'.
The court charged the jury, that, if they believed from the
evidence that the tobacco was, at the time of its delivery to the
defendant, the property of the plaintiff, and that fact was known
to the defendant or its agent, though by the receipt given for
it Trent & Rea were the consignees thereof, and the defendant
might lawfully deliver the said tobacco to the consignees at
Columbia, S. C., the defendant was not authorized to deliver
the same to the consignees, or either of them, or to any other
person by the order of either of them, at Greensboro', N. C.,
the place of shipment; and such delivery at Greensboro', N. C.,
without the knowledge or consent of the plaintiff, would not
discharge the defendant from liability therefor to the plaintiff.
To which charge of the court the defendant then and there
excepted.
There was a verdict for the plaintiff, on which judgment was
rendered, and the defendant sued out this writ of error.
By various requests to charge, the defendant presented the
point in different forms, but the question of law is clearly indicated by the charge given. The express company is not liable
in this action, if, upon the order of Trent, it was justified in
delivering the property at the place of its intended shipment.
If it was not so justified, but. was bound to transport and deliver
as agreed in its receipt, or to deliver to the owner, then it is
liable, and the judgment should be affirmed.
We are not called upon to question the proposition that a
consignee of goods is for many purposes deemed to bs the owner
of them. and may maintain an action for their non-delivery.
I Pars. Ship. 269. In the case before us, the proof was given;
and the jury found that the goods did not belong to the consignees, but were the property of the shipper, and that this was
known to the carrier. The question is, rather, where it is known
that the goods are the property of the shipper, and have been
shipped by him for delivery to the consignees as his agents at a

Oct. 1876.]

SOUTHERN

EXPRESS Co. v. DimKsoN.

distant place, can the carrier deliver the goods to such consignees
or to their order at another place, or without startirX them on
their journey? We think the rule is, that, where the consignor
is known to the carrier to be the owner, the carrier must be
understood to contract with him only, for his interest, upon
such terms as he dictates in regard to the delivery, and that the
consignees are to be regarded simply as agents selected by him
to receive the goods at a place indicated. Where he is an agent
merely, the rule is different. This is illustrated by the case of
fTlompson v. Fargo,49 N. Y. 185. Thompson had, as the agent
of White, collected certain moneys belonging to White, and,
inclosing them in a package directed to White at Terre Haute,
Ind., sent the package from Decatur, in the same State, by the
express company. Various attempts were made to deliver the
package to White, but he could not be found; and Thompson,
the shipper, at length demanded the return to him of the package, and, on refusal, brought an action to recover its value. The
Court of Appeals of New York held, that, if the case had been
one of a sale by the consignor, with no directions from the consignee how to ship the goods, the former, as the title would
remain in him, might maintain an action, but not when he was
the\ mere agent, having no interest in the property, but acting
pursuant to the orders of the owner in shipping it; that a
delivery to him would be no defence to an action by the owner.
The case of Duff v. Budd, 8 Brod. & B. 177, holds the same
rule.
The numerous cases cited by the plaintiff in error, to the
effect that any delivery to the consignee which is good as
between him and the carrier is good against the consignor, are
cases where the carrier has no notice of the ownership of the
property other than that implied from the relation of the parties to each other as 'consignor and consignee. This gives to
the consignee the implied ownership of the property, and
hence justifies the carrier in taking his direction as to the
manner of delivery. In addition to those authorities, reference
may be had to Sweet v. Barney, 28 N. Y. 825, where a bank
in the interior of New York sent by express a package of money
directed to "The People's Bank, 173 Canal Street, New York."
TLe package was delivered to an agent of the People's Bank

SOUTHERN EXPRESS Co. v. DIcKsON.

[Sup. Ct.

at the office of the express company, and was stolen from such
agent. The bank in the interior brought its action against the
express company, and the question was, whether the express
company was authorized to deliver the package at any other
place than 173 Canal Street. The court held, that as there
was no notice to the express company that the money was not
the property of the People's Bank, in the city of New York,
nor any circumstances to weaken the presumption that the
money belonged to that bank, any delivery that was good as
to that bank discharged the carrier.
Of the character mentioned is the case of London & Northwestern Railway Co. v. Bartlett, 7 N. & H. 400, which is
much relied on by the plaintiff in error. The consignee in
that case was the purchaser of the wheat in question, and consequently any delivery to him, or his order, wherever it might
be, would be a discharge to the carrier.
The same -fact existed in Mitchell v. -Ede and Others, 11 A.
& E. 888. The plaintiff recovered the value of the sugars
shipped from Jamaica, for the reason that, under the circumstances stated, he was held to be the owner of them. Upon
the same principle is Foster v. Frampton, 6 B. & C. 107, where
the goods were received from the carrier by the actual vendee,
and it was held that the transitus was at an end.
We do not perceive any thing adverse to the principles we
have stated in the learned opinion delivered by Chief Justice
Shaw in Blanchard v. Paqe, 8 Gray (Mass.), 285, nor in .Lee
v. Kimball, 45 Me. 172, which holds that, where a vendee of
goods sells the same before reaching their destination, the right
of stoppage in transituis ended.
We base our judgment upon the bill of lading and its legal
results, adopting the fifth point of the plaintiff in error, that
any antecedent agreement or understanding was merged therein
and extinguished thereby. The circumstances of the shipment, how and by whom made, and the knowledge of the
ownership, were proved without objection. These circumstances, and the bill of lading adopted and claimed by the
plaintiff, and the point raised by the exception to the charge
of the judge, present the question we have discussed, and no
other.

Oct. 1876.]

DuTorEa V. WRIGHT.

The plaiutiff in error now contends in his eleventh point
that Dickson was not the owner of the tobacco. This point
cannot be raised here. No request or exception was made
which involves the question. The ownership was assumed
throughout the trial, in the charge of the judge, not disputed
in the requests to charge, and if a subject of doubt in any
form, must be considered as settled by the verdict. The only
suggestion of a denial of ownership is in the request to charge,
that, if the tobacco was in the possession of Trent, as agent of
Dickson, or otherwise, then the delivery to him or his order
was lawful. To hold this to be a denial of the ownership of
Dickson, or a claim of ownership by Trent, would go far
beyond any reasonable construction.
We see no error in the rulings at the trial, and are of the
opinion that the judgment should be affirmed.
It is so ordered.

DUToRm

v. W=RGHT.

1. In computing the four months before filing the petition in bankruptcy, within
which time the assignment of his property by an insolvent debtor, with a
view to give a preference to any creditor, is void,'the day upon which the
petition is filed must be excluded.
2. "Toofet al. v. Martin, 13 Wall. 40, and Buchanan v. Smith, 16 id. 277, cited, and
the doctrines therein announced applied to the facts of this case.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Wisconsin.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
fr. W. P. Zynde for the appellant.
fIr. E. Mariner, contra.
I. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Transfers of property by an insolvent debtor, within four
months before the filing of the petition in bankruptcy against
such debtor, with a view to give a preference to any creditor,
is forbidden by the Bankrupt Act; and the provision is to the
effect that if any such insolvent debtor, within that period and
with that view, procures or suffers his property, or any part

