HOADLEY V. SAN FRANCISCO.

[Sup. Ct.

HOADLEY v. SAN FRANCisCO.
1. Under the fifth section of the act of -lIarch 3, 1875 (18 Stat. 471), this court
has jurisdiction to review an order of a circuit court dismissing a cause, or
remanding it to the State court from which it had been removed under the
second section of that act.

2. The questions of title involved in this case do not arise under the Constitution
or the laws of the United States, or a treaty made under its authority. The
Circuit Court did not, therefore, err in remanding it to the State court from
which it had been removed.

from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of California.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
J.lr. S. W. Iolladay for the plaintiff in error.
Hr. -Delos Lake, contra.
APPEAL

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WArrIE delivered the opinion of the

court.
This action was commenced by Iloadley, the appellant, a
citizen of Californib,, Jan. 5, 1870, in the District Court for the
twelfth judicial district of that State, to quiet his title to
certain of the pueblo lands of the city of San Francisco,
granted to that city by the act of Congress passed July 1,1864,
13 Stat. 833, sect. 5, of which, so far as it is material for the
determination of this cause, is as follows "That all the right and title of the United States to the lands
within the corporate limits of the city of San Francisco . . . are
hereby relinquished and granted to the said city and its successors,
for the uses and purposes specified in the ordinances of said city,
ratified by an act of the legislature of the said State, approved on
the 11th of March, 1858. . .. .
He claimed as one of the beneficiaries under this grant by
the operation of.the city ordinances referred to. The question
to be determined is whether he was so in fact.
Sect. 2 of the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470, is as
follows

-

"Any suit of a civil nature, at law or in equity, now pending or
hereafter brought in any State court, where the matter in dispute
exceeds, exclusive of costs, the sum or value of five hundred

Oct. 1876.]

HOADLEY V. SAN FRANCISCO.

dollars, and arising under the Constitution or laws of the United
States, or treaties made, or which shall be made, under their
authority, . . . either party may remove said suit to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the proper district."
After the passage of this act, Hoadley removed his suit to
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
California, alleging that it was one arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States. In the Circuit Court he
amended his bill, setting forth in detail the particulars of his
claim to the benefit of the act of Congress through the city
ordinances. To this amended bill the city demurred, assigning for cause, among others, that it did not show that the
Circuit Court had jurisdiction. Upon the hearing of this
demurrer, the court entered an order remanding the cause to
the State court, and from that order the present appeal has
been taken.
By sect. 5 of the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 471, it is
provided "that the order of the Circuit Court dismissing or
remanding the cause shall be reviewable by the Supreme
Court on writ of error or appeal, as the case may be." This
is a modification of the previous legislation upon this subject,
under which we held, in Insurance Company v. Comstock, 16
Wall. 270, and Railroad Comany v. Wiswall, 23 id. 508, "that
the remedy in such a case was by mandamus to compel action,
and not by writ of error to review -what has been done."
We have, therefore, jurisdiction of this appeal, but we are
clearly of the opinion that the Circuit Court did not err in
remanding the cause. The questions -involved did not arise
under the laws of the United States, but under the ordinances
of the city as ratified by the act of the legislature. The act of
Congress operated as a release to the city of all the interest
of the United States in the land. The title of the United
States was vested in the city. Whether the city took the
beneficial interest in the property as Well as the legal title
depended upon the effect to be given to the act of the legislature and the ordinances, and not upon the act of Congress.
The case is precisely the same in principle as it would have
been if the city had, previous to the act of Congress, conveyed
the land to Hfoadley by deed, with covenants of warranty. If

PIKE V. EVANS.

[Sup. Or,.

in such a case a controversy should arise between Hoadley and
the city as to whether or not the title granted to the city
inured to his benefit under the warranty, the question would
not be as to the effect of the grant from the United States, but
as to that qf the conveyance from the city. The case would
not arise under the laws of the United States, but under tho
Decree affirmed.
deed and its covenants.

PIKE v. EvANs.
1. Although, in Louisiana, informalities which occur in a sheriff's proceecing
under execution may, if taken advantage of in due time, be good grounu
for annulling a sate made by him, yet, if he, being thereunto authorized,
sells the land, and executes a deed therefor, to a bona fide purchaser, the
latter, in an action against him to recover the land, commenced after five
years from the time he entered into possession, can set up the statutory prescription.
2. The failure of the sheriff to actually seize the property is cured by the possession of such a purchaser for five years.
8. Under the laws of Louisiana, a deed of property from a person having authority to sell is regarded as a just title for the purpose of prescription.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
This is a petitory action brought to recover a certaiw plantation in Louisiana. The plaintiff (now defendant;in error)
claimed the land under an act of donation from her uncle,
Ackley Perkins, passed the 5th of September, 1861. Perkins
had purchased the land at sheriff's sale made Aug. 8, 1861,
under a vendor's lien, and gave a twelvemonth's bond for the
purchase-money. One Williams, and William S. Pike, the defendant below (now plaintiff in error), were his sureties on this
bond. The bond not being paid, a writ of fieri facias, under
the laws of Louisiana, was issued upon it against the goods
and lands both of Perkins and his sureties. The sheriff, under
and by virtue of this writ, sold the plantation in question on
the 6th of January, 1866; and Pike, to save his own property
and to protect himself against his liability as surety, became
the purchaser, paid the incumbrance, and went into possession
on the day of sale. He liad been in possession over five years

