Oct. 1876.]

PIKE V. WASSELL.

or the Whitcomb (the infringing machines), we discover no
error. Our judgments, therefore, are as follows: In ll7inois CentralRailroadCompany v. Turrill,and Michigan
Southern and Northern Indiana Railroad Company v. Same,
-Decreesreversed, and causes remandedfor furtherproceedings
in accordance with this opinion.
In Chicago and Alton Railroad Company v. Same, Chicago,
Burlington, and Quincy R aitroad Company v. Same, and -ittsburgh, Port Wayne, and Chicago Railroad Company v. Same,
-Decrees affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FiELD, with whom concurred MR.
SwAyx E, dissenting.

JUSTICE

I dissent from so much of the opinion and judgment in these
cases as approves the estimate of damages made by the court
below.

PIKE V. WAssm.
Certain lands in Arkansas, liable to confiscation under the act of July 17, 1862
(12 Stat. 589), and belonging to A., a non-resident of the State, were seized
Feb. 16, 1865, by. the marshal, pursuant to instructions from the district
attorney, who, on the 17th of thAt month, filed a libel of iflformation against
them in the proper District Court of the United States. On the following
day, a warrant of arrest and monition ;as issued and duly served. The libel
*as amended April 5,so as to embrace other lands of A. On that day a decree
of condemnation, forfeiture, and sale of'all the lands was entered by that court,
and they were sold on the 28th of that month by the marshal, under a venditioni exponas. The purchasers subsequently conveyed them to B. The decree
of condemnation was affirmed by the Circuit Court. A writ of attachment, sued
out of one of the courts cf Arkansas, March 9, 1865, at the suit of sundry creditors of A., was on that day levied upon the same lands. A., by his attorney,
entered his appearance to the suit, and judgment was rendered against him
Sept. 29. All of said lands were sold by the sheriff under a ftier facias. B.
became the purchaser, and refuses to pay taxes upon them, in order that,
by buying them at a sale for delinjuent taxes, his title may be perfected.
A. is still living, and his children brought this suit. Red, 1. That the appearance of A. did not discharge the lien of the attachment. 2. That the levy of
that writ by the sheriff upon the lands seized by the marshal was void, and
that B.'s interest in them is determinable upon the death of A. 3. That the
decree of condemnation did not divest the rights of the attaching creditors in
the lands not seized by the marshal, and that B.'s title to them in fee, acquired
by his purchase at the sheriff's sale, was not affected by the proceedings in

PIKE V. WASSELL.

(Sup. Ok.

confiscation, and the sale under them. 4. That the affirmance by the Cirtuit
Court of the decree gave no validity to it as against the attaching creditors.
5. That the heirs apparent or presumptive of A. have, in regard to the lands
so seized and sold by the marshal, a right to protect their estate from forfeiture or incumbrance, and that B.'s refusal to pay the taxes on them presents
a proper case for relief in a court of equity.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Arkansas.

Mr. ,uther . Pike for the appellants.
Mr. William H. Bandolph for the appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.

In Wallach v. Van Biswick, 92 U. S. 207, 208, we decided
that after a seizure and an adjudicated condemnation and sale,
under the Confiscation Act of July 17, 1862, 12 Stat. 589, of
the lands of one engaged in rebellion against the United States,
there was "left in him no estate or interest of any description
which he could convey by deed, and no power which he could
exercise in favor of another." We also held, p. 213, that the
joint resolution passed contemporaneously with the approval of
the act, 12 Stat. 627, was "intended for the benefit of his
heirs exclusively, to enable them to take the inheritance after
his death." As to him, the forfeiture was complete and absolute; but the ownership, after his death, was in no wise
affected, p. 209, except by placing it beyond his control while
living.
A seizure of the property was necessary to give the court
jurisdiction for its condemnation. Miller v. United States, 11
Wall. 294, 296; Pelham v. Way, 15 Wall. 201; Brown v.
Kennedy, id. 597 ;-The Confiscation Cases, 20 Wall. 108. The
proceedings in behalf of the United States were commenced by
the seizure, and the decree of condemnation and sale, without
any doubt, vested in the United States, or the purchaser at the
sale, the interest which the person proceeded against had in the
property when the seizure was made, free from all intermediate
conveyances or incumbrances, whether the result of the voluntary act of the owner or the action of his creditors against him.
Whatever interest he had in the property had been seized, as

Oct. 1876.]

PIE v. WASSUEL.

forfeited to the United States, and placed, pending the suit, beyond his reach, or that of his creditors. All subsequently
acquired rights were subject to the prior claim of the United
States, if perfected by a decree of condemnation.
In this case, it appQars that the United States seized lot 10,
nine feet off the east side of lot 9, and two and one-half feet off
the west side of lot 11, in block 1, west of the Quawpaw line,
and the undivided half of the west half of lots 1, 2, and 8, in
block 81, Feb. 16; and on the next day filed their libel of information against this property in the District Court. A warrant of arrest and monition was issued on the next day, and
duly served. The lots thus proceeded against were not levied
upon under the attachment issued out of the Pulaski Circuit
Court until March 9. Consequently, as to this property the
attachment was defeated by the decree of condemnation, and
the defendants acquired no title through the proceedings in the
State court. All the interest they have in it comes through
the confiscation sale, and terminates upon the death of Albert
Pike, to whom it belonged when seized.
But as to the remainder of the property, there never was any
seizure by the United States; and the amendment to the libel,
upon which alone the decree of condemnation rests, was made
long after the levy of the attachments. When levied upon,
therefore, the property was open to attachment; and the subsequent condemnation, without a previous seizure, did not divest
the attaching creditors of any rights acquired by their proceedings. As to them, the court had no jurisdiction, because it had
never taken the property, and had never issued its warrant
of arrest or monition. The affirmance of the decree under the
writ of error to the Circuit Court, prosecuted by Albert Pike,
operated only upon him. The creditors were no more a party
to the proceedings in error than they had been to the original
suit.
The appearance of Albert Pike to the attachment suits did
not, under the law of Arkansas, discharge the lien of the- attachment. No bond was given, such as was required for that
purpose. Gould's Dig. c. 17, sect. 15, p. 171; Delano v.. Kennedy, 5 Ark. 459.
It follows, therefore, that the interest covered by the attach-

PIKE V. WASSEAL.

.[SUP. Ct.

mentL, levied upon the part of the property not seized by the
United States has never been confiscated, and that the title
which Wassell has since acquired under it may be enforced
against the heirs of Albert Pike after his death, notwithstanding the confiscation. It is unnecessary to decide what would
have been his rights if a seizure had actually been made by the
United States after the attachments.
Our conclusion, then, is, that as to the property actually
seized by the United States and condemned by the decree the
defendants hold only by virtue of the confiscation sale, but that
as to so much as was not actually included in the seizure the
defendant Wassell did acquire, by the proceedings in the State
court, all the title of Albert Pike at the time of the levy of the
attachments.
It only remains to inquire whether the children of Albert
Pike stand in such a relation to the property confiscated, and
not affected by the attachment proceedings, that they may
maintain an action to require the defendants to keep down the
taxes during the life of their father.
There can be no doubt but the defendants, as tenants for life,
are bound in law to pay the taxes upon the property during the
continuance of their estate. Famy v. Stevens, 22 Me. 334;
Cairns v. (Jkabut, 3 Ed. (N. Y.) Ch. 312. This the defendants
do not dispute; but they insist that, until the death of the father,
the children have no interest in the property, and, therefore,
cannot appear to protect the inheritance.
It is true, as a general rule, that so long as the ancestor lives
the heirs have no interest in his estate; but the question here is
as to the rights which the confiscation act has conferred upon
the heirs apparent or presumptive of one whose estate in lands
has been condemned and sold. In Wallach v. Van Riswick,
without undertaking to determine where the fee dwelt during
the life-estate, we decided that it was withheld from confiscation exclusively for the benefit of the heirs. They, and they
alone, could take it at the termination of the life-estate. • The
children of Albert Pike, as his heirs apparent, are also apparently the next in succession to the estate.' Either they or
their representatives must take the title when their father dies.
If they. do not hold the fee, they are certainly the only persons

Oct. 1876.]

MEmPHL v. BROWN.

now living who represent those for whose benefit the joint
resolution of Congress was passed. They, at least, appear to
have the estate in expectancy. Under these circumstances, as
there is no one else to look after the interests of the succession,
we think they may properly be permitted to do whatever is
necessary to protect it from forfeiture or incumbrance.
The defendants admit that they have determined not to pay
the taxes upon the property. The danger of incumbrance by
reason of this failure to perform their duties as tenants for life
is, therefore, imminent, and the case a proper one for a court of
equity to interfere and grant appropriate relief. In Cairnsv.
Chabut, supra, when the tenant for life failed to keep down the
taxes, an order was made for the appointment of a receiver of
so much of the rents and income of the estate as should be
necessary to pay off and discharge the amounts then in arrear.
We see no reason why similar relief may not be granted in.
respect to the accruing taxes, in case the tenants fail to perform their duties in that b~half ; but,'without undertaking to
direct specifically as to the form iii which the protection asked
shall be secured, we shall reverse the decree, and remand the*
cause to the Circuit Court, with instructions to proceed in conformity to this opinion, as law and justice may require ; and it is
So ordered.

M:EmIpns v.

Bi~oww.

A., having a decree against the city of Memphis for the payment of money, obtained, by judgment rendered March 30, 1875, a mandamus, directing her, for
the payment of the decree, to levy a tax upon all the taxable property of the
city. She thereupon passed an ordinance levying a special tax of fifty-four
cents "on the $100 worth of property." Under the laws of the State, taxable
real and personal property, other than merchants' capital, is embraced in one
'tax-list, and merchants' capital in another. A., finding that such capital was
not subjected to the special tax, although it was to that levied for all other
purposes, and that the required sum would not be raised, moved for a further
peremptory mandamus,requiring such capital, as it was assessed for other purposes in the year 1875, to be included in the property to be taxed for his benefit. Such mandamus was directed by judgment March 2, 1876. On the 20th
of the following May, the city moved to set aside the latter judgment; but
the court refused to grant the motion, and re-entered, on that day, the judgo

