RUSSELL V. PLACE.

[Sup. Ct.

RUSSELL V. PLACE.
1. A judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, upon a question directly in
volved in one suit, is conclusive as to that question in another suit between
the same parties; but to this operation of the judgment it must appear,
either upon the face of the record, or be shown by extrinsic evidence, that
the precise question was raised and determined in the former suit. If there
be any uncertainty on this head in the record, the whole subject-matter of
the action will be at large and open to a new contention, unless this uncer-tainty be removed by extrinsic evidence showing the precise point involved
and determined. To apply the judgment, and give effect to the adjudication actually made, when the record leaves the matter in doubt, such evidence is admissible.
2. In an action at law for damages for the infringement of a patent for an alleged
new and useful improvement in the preparation of leather, which patent
contained two claims, one for the use of fat liquor kenerally in the treatment of leather', and the other for a process of treating bark-tanned lamb or
sheep skin, by means of a compound composed and applied in a particular
manner, the declaration alleged, as the infringement complained of, that the
defendants had made and used the invention, and caused others to make and
use it, without averring whether such infringement consisted in the simple
use of fat liquor in the treatment of leather, or in the use of the process
specified. Held, tlkt the judgment recovered in the action does not estop
the defendant in a suit in equity by the same plaintiff, for an injunction
and an accounting for gains and profits, from contesting the validity of the
patent, it not appearing by the record, and not being shown by extrinsic
evidence, upon which claim the recovery was had. The validity of the
patent was not necessarily involved, except with respect to the claim which
was the basis of the recovery: a patent may be valid as to a single claim,
and invalid as to the others.
a If, upon the face of a record, any thing is left to conjecture as to what was
necessarily involved and decided, there is no estoppel in it when pleaded,
and nothing conclusive in it when offered as evidence.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of New York.
Mr. Horace B. Smith for the appellant.
Mr. T. E. Wakefield, contra.

MpR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is d suit for an infringement of a patent to the complainant for an alleged new and useful improvement in the
preparation of leather, and is similar in its general features to
the suit of the complainant against Dodge, 93 U. S. 460. It
is submitted upon substantially the same testimony, and pre-

Ot. 1876.]

ORUSSELL V. PLACE.

sents, with one exception, the same questions for determination.
That exception relates to the operation, as an estoppel against
setting up the defences here made, of a judgment recovered by
the complainant against the defendants in an action at 'aw for
the infringement of the patent.
The bill of complaint sets forth the invention claimed, the
issue of a patent for the same, its surrender for alleged defective and insufficient description of the invention, its reissue
with an amended specification, and the recovery of judgment
against the defendants for damages in an action at law for a
violation of the exclusive privileges secured by the patent.
The bill then alleges the subsequent manufacture, use, and
sale by the defendants, without the license of the patentee, of
the alleged invention and improvement, and prays that they
may be decreed to account for the gains and prfits thus acquired by them, and be enjoined from further infringement.
The answer admits the issue of the patent, its surrender and
reissue, and, as a defence to this suit, sets up in substance the
want of novelty in the invention, its use by the public for
more than two years pri r to the application for the patent,
and that the reissue, so far as it differs from the original
patent, is not for the same invention. The answer also admits
the recovery by the complainant in the action at law of the
judgment mentioned, but denies that the same issues were
involved or tried in that action which are raised in this suit.
The action at law was brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of New York, in the
ordinary form of such actions for infringement of the privileges
secured by a patent. The defendants pleaded the general
issue, and set 'up, by special notice under the act of Congress,
the want of novelty in the invention, and its use by the public
for more than two years prior to the application for a patent.
The plaintiff obtained a verdict for damages, upon which the
judgment mentioned was entered; and this judgment, it is now
insisted, estops the defendants in this suit from insisting upon
the want of novelty in the invention patented, and its prior
use by the public, and also from insisting upon any ground
going to the validity of the patent which might have been
availed of as a defence in that action, and, of course, upon the

RUSSELL V. PLACE.

[Sup. Ct.

want of identity in the invention covered by the reissue with
that of the original patent.
It is undoubtedly settled law that a judgment of a court of
competent jurisdiction, upon a question directly involved in
one suit, is conclusive as to that question in another suit between the same parties. But to this operation of the judgment
it must appear, either tipon the face of the record or be shown
by extrinsic evidence, that the precise question was iaised knd
determined in the former suit. If there be any uncertainty on
this head in the record, - as, for example, if it appear that several
distinct matters may have been litigated, upon one or more of
which the judgment may have passed, without indicating which
of them was thus litigated, and upon which the judgment was
rendered, - the whole subject-matter of the action will be at
large, and open to a new contention, unless this uncertainty be
removed by extrinsic evidence showing the precise point involved and determined. To apply the judgment, and give
effect to the adjudication actually made, when the record leaves
the matter in doubt, such evidence is admissible.
Thus, in the case of the' lashington, Alexandria, . Georgetown Steam-Packet Company v. Sickles, reported in the 24th
of Howard, a verdict and judgment for the plaintiff in a prior
action against the same defendant on a declaration, containing
a special count upon a contract, and the common counts, was
held by this court not to be conclusive of the existence and
validity of the contract set forth in the special count, because
the verdict might have been rendered without reference to
that count, and only upon the common counts. Extrinsic evidence showing the fact to have been otherwise was necessary
to render the judgment an estoppel upon those points.
When the same case was before this court the second time,
Packet Company v. Sickles, 5 Wall. 580, the general rule with
respect to the conclusiveness of a verdict and judgment in a
former suit between the same parties, when the judgment is
used in pleading as an estoppel, or is relied upon as evidence,
was stated to be substantially this: that, to render the judgment conclusive, it must appear by the record of the prior suit
that the particular matter sought to be concluded was necessarily tried or determined, - that is, that the verdict in the suit

Oct. 1876.]

RUSSELL V. PLACE.

could not have been rendered without deciding that matter;
or it must be shown by extrinsic evidence, consistent with the
record, that the verdict and judgment necessarily involved the
,consideration and determination of the matter.
Tested by these views, the question presented by the plaintiff in this case, upon the effect as evidence of the verdict and
judgment in the action at law, is of easy solntion. The record
of that action does not disclose the nature of the infringement for which damages were recovered. The declaration
only avers that the plaintiff was the original and first inventor
of a new and useful improvement in the preparation of leather,
and that he obtained a patent for the same, and, on its burrender, a new patent, with an amended specification, without
describing with other particularity the nature and operation
of the invention; and alleges, as the infringement complained
of, that the defendants have made and used the invention, and
have caused others to make .and use it. Tho patent contains
two claims: one for the use of fat liquor generally in the treatment of leather, and the other for a process of treating bark
tanned lamb or sheep skin by means of a compound comp6sed
and applied in a particular manner. Whether the infringement for which the verdict and judgment passed consisted in
the simple use of fat liquor in the treatment of leather, or in
the use of the process specified, does not appear from the record.
A recovery for an infringement of one claim of the patent is
not of itself conclusive of an infringement of the other claim,
and there was no extrinsic evidenee offered to remove the uncertainty upon the record: it is left to conjecture what was in
fact litigated and determined. The verdict may have been
for an infringement of the first claim; it may have been for
an infringement of the second; it may have been for an infringement of both. The validity of the patent was not necessarily involved, except with respect to the claim which was the
basis of the recovery. A patent may be valid as to a single
claim and not valid as to the others. The record wants, therefore, that certainty which is essential to its operation as an
estoppel, and does not conclude the defendants from contesting
the infringement or the validity of the patent in this suit.
The record is not unlike a record in an action for money -had
VOL. IV.

89

610

NEw JERSEY MuT. LIFE INS. Co. v. BAKER.

[Sup. Ct.

and received to the plaintiff's use. It would be impossible to
affirm from such a record, with certainty, for what moneys thus
received the action was brought, without extrinsic evidence
showing the fact; and, of course, without such evidence the
verdict and judgment would conclude nothing, except as to the
amount of indebtedness established.
According to Coke, an estoppel must "be certain to every
intent;" and if upon the face of a record any thing is left to
conjecture as to what was necessarily involved and decided,
there is no estoppel in it when pleaded, and nothing conclusive
in it when offered as evidence. See Aiken v. Peck, 22 Vt.
260, and Hooker v. Hubbard, 102 Mass. 245.
Decree affirmed
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD dissented.

NEW JERSEY MUTUAL LIFE INSURAi-CE COMPANY
v. BAKER.
1. Counsel cannot, in requests to the court below, assume the existence of facto
and ask a charge to the jury based upon such assumption; nor, upon argument here, insist that, because the assumption was made, this court is to
consider the assumed facts as existing.
2. The doctrine in Insurance Company v. Wilkinson, 13 Wall. 222, and Insurance
Company v. Mahone, 21 id. 152, as to the admissibility of parol testimony to

show that the answers to questions in an application for a policy of life insurance, as construed, interpreted, and written down by an agent of the company,
were not those of the applicant, affirmed and applied to this case.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Dennis YeMahon for the plaintiff in error.
The court declined to hear counsel for the defendant in error.

MR. JUSTICE HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.

On the 28th of June, 1869, the New Jersey Mutual Life Insurance Company made its policy of insurance upon the lives of
Anson M. Baker and Martha, his wife, undertaking, upon the
death of either of them, to pay the survivor the sum of $10,000.

