Oct. 1876.1

PEOPL

V. Co nssioNmaS OF TAXES, VTc.

415

PEOPLE V. COmimssIoNRRs OF TAXES AND ASSESSMENTS.
1. The shares of stock of a national bank in New York should be assessed for
taxation at their actual value.
2. The ruling in Van Allen v. The Assessors, 3 Wall. 573, as to the invalidity of
the act of the legislature of New York of March 9, 1865, known as the
Enabling Act, so far as it provided for the taxation of shares in a national
bank, reaffirmed.

ERRon to the Court of Appeals of the State of New
York.
The relator, the Gallatin National Bank of the city of New
York, was, prior to 1864, a State bank, incorporated under the
general banking laws of New York. It surrendered that
charter, and was reorganized as a national bank, under the act
of Congress of June 3, 1864, 13 Stat. 99, known as the National
Banking Act, and c. 97 of the laws of 1865 of New York,
known as the "Enabling Act," with a capital of $1,500,000,
divided into thirty thousand shares of $50 each.
The bank has reserved from profits $300,000. It also holds,
on deposit with the treasurer, bonds of the United States of the
par value of $591,000, on which the premium, estimated at
twenty per cent, would be $118,200; so that the bank has, in
addition to its capital, a surplus of $418,20(.
The commissioners of taxes and assessmdnts of the city of
New York having signified their intention to tax this surplus,
the president of the bank made a statement of its condition.
Its capital and surplus were shown to be $1,918,200, which, on
a division, would make each share $63.60. As those bonds
were liable to daily and almost hourly fluctuation, and so might
slightly exceed the estimate, he made affidavit that the value of
each share did not exceed $64.
Thereupon the commissioners, deducting $5 per share as the
proportion of the assessed value of the bank's real estate, took
$59 as the valuation of each share, and imposed the tax accordingly. The relator, to test the validity of such assessment,
sued out of the Supreme Court of the State a writ of certiorari,
which, upon a hearing, was quashed; and it thereuponi appealed
to the Court of Appeals, where the judgment below was affirmed.
It then brought the case here.

416

PEOPLE V. COMMISSIONERS OF TAXES, ETC.

[Sup. Ct.

The statutes bearing upon the question at issue are set forth
in the opinion of the court.
M]/r. Daniel D. Lord for the appellant.
The surrender by the Gallatin Bank of its original charter,
and its reorganization under the National Bank Law, in conformity with the Enabling Act of New York, formed a contract
with the State, limiting, for taxable purposes, the assessment of
the shares of the bank to their par value. This contract is as
much protected by art. 10 of the Constitution of the United
States as are contracts between individuals. Prov. Bank v.
Billings, 4 Pet. 514; Gordon v. Tax Court, 3 How. 133; Piqua
Bank v. Knoop, 16 id. 369; Ohio Life Insurance & Trust Co.
v. De Bolt, 16 id. 416 ;. Jefferson Bank v. Skelly, 1 Black, 436;
Home of the Friendlessv. _ouse, 8 Wall. 430; Wash. Universityq
v. Rouse, id. 439.
Mr. Hugh L. Cole, contra.
MR. JUSTIcE HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The relators complain that their shares of stock in the
Gallatin National Bank are assessed at too large a slm. They
appeal from the judgment of the Court of Appeals sustaining
the determination of the commissioners of taxes, which fixed
the taxable value of such shares at $59 each, whereas the par
or nominal value of such shares is $50 each.
Tany grave questions were discussed by the council upon the
argument, to which we do not think it necessary to refer. We
place our judgment upon a single ground.
The laws of the State of New York provide that shares of
stock like those we refer to shall be assessed "on the value"
of the shares, and at "their full and true value, as they (the
assessors) would appraise the same in payment of a just debt
due from a solvent debtor," deducting the proportional value of
the real estate owned by the bank. 2 Stat. N. Y. 1866, p. 1647,
c. 71; 1 R. S. N. Y. 393, sect. 17.
The assessors were justified, under this authority, in fixing
the value as we have stated. The appraisement included the
reserve fund, which is as much a part of the property of the
bank, and goes to fix the value of shares, equally as if it
were not called by that name, but remained as a part of the

Oct. 1876.]

PEOPLE V. COMMISSION~s OF TAXEs, ETC.

417

specie, bills discounted, or other funds of the bank, undistinguished from the guneral mass.
The forty-first section of the act of Congress of June, 1864,
provides that the States may tax the shares of national banks,
subject to two restrictions: 1st, That this taxation shall not be
"at a greater rate than is assessed upon other moneyed capital
in the hands of individual citizens of such State;" and, 2d,
"that the tax so imposed... shall not exceed the rate imposed
upon the shares of any of the banks organized under the authority of the State where such association is located." 18 Stat.
112. In ffeypurn v. rI e Shlwol -Directors,this court decideE
that, in making assessment of bank shares by this authority, it
was competent to assess them at an amount above their pal
value. 23 Wall. 480.
But the relators insist that, by the act of the legislature
of the State of New York, passed March 9, 1865, it was, enacted that the shares of a bank could not be assessed at an
amount greater than the par value thereof, and that such statute created a contract with the banks organized under the
same, which could not be altered by a subsequent legislature.
Hence it is argued that the adt of 1866, authorizing, such
shares to be assessed at a rate which may exceed their par
value, is a law impairing the obligation of a contract, and is
void.
The section of the statute of 1865 referred to is as follows,
viz.: -

"SFecT. 10. All the shares in any of the said banking associations,
organized under this act, or the act of Congress, . . . held by any
person or body corporate, shall be included in the valuation of the
personal property of such person or body corporate or corporation,
in the assessment of taxes in the town or ward where such banking association is located, and not elsewhere, -whether the holder
thereof reside in such town or ward, or not; but not at a greater
rate than is assessed upon other moneyed capital in the hands of
individuals of this State: _Provided, that the tax so imposed upon
such shares shall not exceed the par value thereof; and lrovided
further,that the real estate of such associations shall be subject to
State, county, or municipal taxes, to the same extent, according to
its value, as other real estate is taxed."
VOL. Iv.

.

27

EX PARTE LORING.

[Sup. Ct.

Had this been a valid statute, we might have been called
upon to discuss the point raised. But it was held in Van Allen
v. The Assessors, 3 Wall. 573, that this statute was fatally
defective, in that it did not contain a proviso that the tax
thereby authorized to be imposed should not exceed the rate
imposed upon banks organized under the authority of the State.
The system of taxation devised by the statute of 1865 was
adjujged to be illegal and void. The clause now laid hold of
by the relators was simply a proviso or qualification of that
system. It necessarily fell with it. When the main idea was
thrown out of existence, the subordinate parts, which were
adjuncts of and dependent upon the main theory, ceased to
exist. There never was, legally speaking, any such proviso or
enactment as the relators claim the benefit of. Of course, there
could be no such thing as a violation of contract contained in a
proviso which never existed.
rarren v. The Mayor, 2 Gray,
98, 99; Sedgwick on Statutes, 413, 414 (ed. of 1874).
Judgment affirmed

Ex PArnTE LORING.
This court will not by mandamus compel an inferior court to grant a motion to
vacate an order setting aside a judgment of nonsuit.
PETITION for a mandamus to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Michigan.
This petition shows that at the June Term, 1874, of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District-of
Michigan,* William B. True, the plaintiff in an action then
pending in that court against Elisha T. Loring, the petitioner,
after a jury had been empanelled and the testimony on his part
concluded, elected to become nonsuit, and that a judgment
to that effect was entered. On the 17th October, 1876, at a
subsequent term of the court, after notice to the attorney of
Loring, True moved to set aside this judgment and restore the
cause to the docket for trial. This motion was granted Oct. 31,
and, later in the term, Loring appeared by -his counsel, and

