Oct. 1876.]

BoYD v.

ALABAMA.

His powers and duties were prescribed by the company, not by the
bondholders. There were, at the time of the execution of the trustdeeds, no bondholders, no cestuis que trust. It,is a necessary attribute
of an agency that it should be created by the principal. .

.

. In this

case, as the relation of principal and agent did not exist between the
bondholders and Graham, notice to him, or knowledge by him, that
there was no previous resolution, was not constructive notice to the
bondholders."
And, again, on the page following, it is said :
"The trustees are not to be regarded as the agents of the purchaseys of the bonds and mortgages assigned to thein. No consideration proceeds from them. They were mere assignees of those
securities, coupled with no interest, in trust to hold them as security
for the payment of all the mortgage bonds that should thereafter be
sold or negotiated by the company. . . . *Whoever purchased the
mortgage bonds became purchasers.of the bonds and mortgages so
assigned as security for their payment, or'of an equitable right to
hold them as such security."
We think this is sound doctrine, and that it establishes the
proposition that notice to Thayer did not operate to destroy the
bona fide holding of the bondholders under the deed of trust in
which he was named as one of the trustees.
We have noticed all of the objections which we deem of importance, and are of the opinion, upon the whole case, that the
So ordered.
judgment should be affirmed; and it is

BOYD v. AIABA&NrA.
the defendant, having been indicted under a statute of Alabama for setting up
and carrying on a lottery without legislative authority, claimed in defence a
right to set up and carry on the lottery in question under a subsequent statute

passed on the 10th of October, 1868: this latter statute was repealed in March,
1871. It was admitted on the trial that the acts charged against the defendaL were done under that statute, and would be legal if the statute were constitutional, and had not been repealed. That statute required the defendant,
and certain other parties associated with him, before exercising the right
claimed, to deposit in the treasury of the State, to the credit of the school
fund, and for educational purposes, $2,000, and annually thereafter the same
sum for twenty years, or so long as they might do business under the act; and
that sum had been deposited. Under a previous indictment against the same

defendant for a similar offence, the Supreme Court of the State had held

BoYD v.

ALABAMA.

[Sup. Ct.

that the statute in question constituted a contract, and that the repealing act
was, for that reason, void. In that case, the only matter before the court was
the meaning of the statute : its constitutionality was not called in question.
On the trial of the case at bar, the defendant relied upon that decision of the
court, but he was, nevertheless, convicted and sentenced. On appeal to the
Supreme Court of the State, the judgment was affirmed, the court deciding
that the statute of Oct. 10, 1868, was unconstitutional. Held, that the previous adjudication of the court upon the meaning of the statute- that it constituted a contract between the defendant and the State -did not estop the
State from denying its constitutionality in the present case, nor conclude the
court upon that question, although the point might have been raised and determined in the first instance.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Alabama.

Xr. S. F. Bice for the plaintiff in error.
Mr.John T. Morgan and Ar. P. Philli's for the defendant
in error.
MpR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

On the 10th of October, 1868, the legislature of the State of
Alabama passed an act, entitled "An Act to establish a mutual
aid association, and to raise funds for the common-school system
of Alabama." The act had a very fair and promising appearance, and to the casual reader would seem designed to promote
the cause of science and art, advance education, and diffuse
knowledge. Certain persons named in the act, and their associates, were given the right to form themselves into a partnership association for the distribution of books, paintings, works
of art, scientific instruments and apparatus, lands and tenements, stock and currency, and such other valuables as should
promote the object of the association; the distribution to be
made by awards and prizes, under such rules and regulations as
the parties might adopt, and in such places as they might select.
The parties were also authorized to receive subscriptions and to
sell certificates of subscription, which should entitle the holders
to such articles as might be awarded to them, or tbeir equivalent
in currency; the distribution to be made in public, after due advertisement, by lot, chance, or otherwise, according to the rules
and regulations established. And it was made the duty of the
parties to offer premiums and prizes to the citizens of Alabama
"for the best essays in science and art, and the most deserving
works of art, and the most useful inventions in the mechan.

Oct. 1876.]

BOYD v. ALABAMA.

ical sciences." And before commencing business under the act,
that is to say, before entering upon the career of public benefactions thus conspicuously set forth, the parties were required
to deposit in the treasury of the State, to the credit of the school
fund, and for educational purposes, $2,000, and annually thereafter the same sum for twenty years, or so long as they might do
business under the act.
Nothing could seem to be of greater public utility than the
objects contemplated by the enactment; yet, under its general
and comprehensive" language, license is claimed, to set up and
carry on lotteries for money, and to sell tickets in such lotteries;
and it does not appear that any other use has ever been made
of the right or privilege granted. None of the many objects
mentioned, except currency, have been offered for distribution.
This act was repealed in March, 1871. Before it was passed,
there was a statute of the State prohibiting lotteries and imposing a fine, on conviction, of not less than $100 nor more than
$2,000, upon any person setting up or carrying on a lottery, or
concerned in setting up or carrying it on, without legislative
authority. That statute remains unrepealed. Under this
statute 'the defendant was indicted in the city court of Mobile
for setting up and carrying on a lottery without legislative
authority, and was convicted and sentenced to pay a fine of
$1,000. On appealto the Supreme Court of the State the judg
ment was affirmed. Revised Code of Alabama, sect. 3,616.
On the trial, the defendant admitted that he had been engaged
in setting up and carrying on a lottery in the city of Mobile
within twelve months before the finding of the indictment, but,
claimed a license for that purpose'under the statute 'of 1868,
he being one of the persons named therein. And the State
admitted that the defendant had paid the money required by
the statute of 1868 into the treasury in November of the previous year, and that the acts with which he was charged were
done under that statute, and would be legal if the statute were
constitutional, and it were not subsequently repealed.
The questions thus presented for our consideration relate to
the constitutionality of the act of 1868, and the effect upon the
right or privilege there conferred of the repealing act of 1871.
The defendant contends that the right or privilege to set up

BoYD v.

ALABAMA.

[Sup. Ct.

and carry on lotteries in the State, conferred by the act, rests
on a contract of the State, a consideration being given for its
grant by the prescribed yearly payment into the treasury, and
that the repealing act cannot, therefore, impair it. In consequence of a previous adjudication of the Supreme Court of the
State, construing the act as cr~ating a contract with the persons
therein named, the defendant further contends that the State is
estopped from denying its constitutionality.
It is true, that, in a former case against the same defendant,
upon an indictment of a similar kind, for a previous offence of
setting up and carrying on a lottery, the Supreme Court of the
State held that the statute in question constituted a contract,
and that the repealing act was for that keas.on void. Bat in
that case the only subject before the court was the meaning of
the statute, - whether its provisions in their terms amounted to
a contract which a subsequent enactment could not impair.
The constitutionality of the act was not drawn in question;
that was not denied.
Courts seldom undertake, in any case, to pass upon the
validity of legislation, where the question is not made by the
parties. Their habit is to meet questions of that kind when
they are raised, but not to anticipate them. Until then, they
will construe the acts presented for consideration, define their
meaning, and enforce their provisions. The fact that acts may
in this way have been often before the court is never deemed a
reason for not subsequently considering their validity when that
question is presented. Previous adjudications upon other points
do not operate as an estoppel against the parties in new cases,
nor con61ude the court, upon the constitutionality of the acts,
because that point might have been raised and determined in
the first instance. So when, in the present case, the point was
taken for the first time against the constitutionality of the act
of 1868, the court was not precluded by the previous decisions
from freely considering and determining it. Having considered
it, the court came to the conclusion that the act could not be
sustained. It appears that the Constitution of the State declares
that " each law shall contain but one subject, which shall be
clearly expressed in its title." The object of this provision,
said the court, was to prevent abuses which had grown up, to

Oct. 1876.]

BoYD v.

ALABAMA.

the scandal of legislative bodies; and, using the language of a
previous decision, to prevent deception, by including in a bill
matters incongruous with the title. Whilst observing that it
was necessary to be careful in the application of the doctrine,
so as not to cripple and embarrass legislation, and expressing
doubts -whether the act authorizes a lottery for money, the court
said: "But, granting that this right to set up aid carry on a
lottery is conferred in the body of the statute, it is not expressed
in the title. Never was language employed less apt to convey
to the mind, learned or unlearned, the idea that the partnership
association, the mutual aid society, was to be an undisguised
lottery, and that the encouragement of letters, the promotion
of science and the arts, which it proposed, was the uncertain
prize in currency which might fall to the ticket-holder;" and,
because the object is not thus expressed, the act was declared
to be unconstitutional. We cannot refuse to give effect to that
decision. It is the province of the Supreme Court of the State
to construe its own Constitution and laws; and, when it decides
that oae of its laws is not authorized by its Constitution, it is
not for us to deny the correctness of the decision, when there
is no evasion in this way of Federal authority.
The act of 1868 being unconstitutional, the contention of the
defendant, that it constitutes a contract, repealable or irrepealable, falls to the ground; and he is left to meet the indictment,
founded upon a statute confessedly constitutional, in the best
way he can. If he has been misled by previous adjudications
of the State courts, his relief from the present judgment must
be sought from the clemency of the Executive. This court can
afford him none.
These views dispose of the case, and require an affirmance of
the judgment; but, before closing this opinion, it is proper to
make one or two observations, to prevent misconstruction.
lst, While the State has seen proper, through its prosecuting
officer, to admit that if the statute of 1868 were constitutional,
and had not been repealed, the acts charged against the defendant would be legal, we do not wish to be considered as adopting
this conclusion, because we have not called it in question. The
observations of the learned justice, who gave the opinion of the
Supreme Court of the Sta.e, strikes us as worthy of serious

LowE v. WILLAmS.[

[Sup. Ut.

consideration; and he says, after commenting upon the facts,
that it is questionable whether the court could affirm that the
statute, even if there were no doubt of its constitutionality,
authorized the setting up of the lottery in this case; and,
2d, We are not prepared to admit that it is competent for
one legislature, by any contract with an individual, to restrain
the power of a subsequent legislature to legislate for the public
welfare, and to that end to suppress any and all practices
tending to corrupt the public morals. See Afoore v. The State,
48 Miss. 147; Metropolitan Board of Excise v. Barrie,34 N. Y.
Judgment affirmed.
663.

Lows v. WmLiAws.
A suit pending in an appellate State court, after it has been prosecuted to final
judgment in a court of original jurisdiction, cannot be removed to the Circuit
Court of the United States.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Nebraska.

Williams, a citizen of Iowa, brought suit, June, 9, 1869, m
the District Court of the second judicial district of Nebraska,
against Lowe, a citizen of the latter State, and obtained judgment Aug. 4, 1874, for $7,532.42. Lowe thereupon appealed
to the Supreme Court, and, on the 14th of August, 1875, filed'
his petition in the latter court for the removal of the cause to
the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of
Nebraska. The prayer of the petition was rejected, and the
court, March 30, 1876, rendered final judgment.
Lowe thereupon sued out this writ of error.
So much of the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470, as applies
to the question of the right of removal, is as follows: "SECT. 2.

That any suit of a e 7il nature, at law or in equity,

now pending or hereafter brought in any State court, where the
matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of costs, the sum or value of
$500, and arising under the Constitution or laws of the United
States, or treaties made, or which shall be made, under their authority, or in which the United States shall be plaintiff or petitioner,
or in which there shall be a controversy between citizens of differ-

