400,

UNITED STATES V. MARTIN.

[Sup. Ct.

claimant without further authority from that body. United
States v. Babbitt, 1 Black, 55. This case is not distinguishable
in principle from Gordon v. United States, 7 Walk 188. Aside
from the views we have expressed, that adjudication is conclusive as authority against the appellant.
Our attention has been called by the counsel on both sides to
the clause of the resolution giving the claimant the right of
appeal from the findings of the Postmaster-General to the Court
of Claims. The view which we take of the case renders it
unnecessary to consider that point, and we express no opinion
upon the subject.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. MAxI.
1. The act of Congress of June 25, 1868 (15 Stat. 77), declaring that eight hours
shall constitute a day's work for all laborers, workmen, and mechanics employed by or on behalf of the government of the United States, is in the
nature of a direction by the government to its agents.
2. It is not a contract between the government and its laborers, that eight hours
shall constitute a day's work. It neither prevents the government from
making agreements with them, by which their labor may be more or less
than eight hours a day, nor does it prescribe the amount of compensation
for that or any other number of hours' labor.
8. Where, therefore, a laborer, in the habit of working for the government twelve
hours a day, for $2.50 a day, is informed by the proper authority that, if
he remains in the service at that compensation, he must continue to work
twelve hours a day, and he does so continue, and is paid accordifigly, he
cannot afterwards recover for the additional time over eight hours as a day's
labor.
4. An allowance by the government, upon the application of the laborer, of a
sum for the excess of time over eight hours per day, is, when accepted by
him in full of the account, a bar to any further claim.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.
This was a petition filed by Martin against the United States.
The court below found the following facts: 1. In the year 1866 or 1867 the claimant was employed by
the foreman of the steam-heating and gas works at the Naval
Academy, at Annapolis, to work for the defendants at $2.50 a
day, with the understanding that during the season of steaming,
which was from the 1st of October to the 1st of June, his time

Out. 1876.]

UNITED STATES V. NARTIIN.

of labor was to be twelve hours a day. During the seasons of
steam-heating he was fireman at the steam-boilers, and at other
times he was employed in assisting in repairing pipes, digging,
and shovelling, or in ordinary labor and work.
2. In July, 1868, upon the passage of the act constituting
eight hours as a day's work for all laborers employed on behalf
of the government, called the "Eight-Hour Law," 15 Stat. 77,
the claimant and other laborers at said academy spoke about
that law to the foreman, who put-on an additional man in the
gas-works (where the claimant was not employed), and reduced
the time of labor of the men in said gas-works to eight hours a
day. Soon afterward, the men told him they would rather have
half a dollar a day additional than to have the eight hours'
work. Admiral Porter, then superintendent of the academy,
was informed of what the men §aid, and he told the foreman
that he would not give more pay, and that if any one would
not work the full hours, he would put some one in his place.
The claimant was present and heard this conversation. *Nothing more was said or done in the matter, and the claimant went
on with his work, laboring the number of hours per day as before, according to the original understanding.
3. From the 25th of June, 1868, when the eight-hour law
passed, to the 19th of May, 1869, when the President's proclamation in relation to said act was issued, 16 Stat. 1127, the
claimant worked two hundred and thirty-one calendar days,
twelve hours each day, and ninety-seven calendar days, eight
hours each day. From said 19th of May, 1869, to the time of
his final discharge, Oct. 15, 1872, he worked seven hundred
and fifty-two and a half calendar days, twelve hours each day,
and four hundred and. thirty nine and a half calendar days,
eight hours each day.
4. For all of said labor the claimant was paid at the rate of
$2.50 per calendar day, except that, for reasons which do not
appear in evidence, he was paid.at the -rate of $2.25 per day for
seventy-fotr days of twelve hours each, in March, April, and
May, 1870, and for twenty-six days of eight hours each, in June,
1870. Payments at said rates were made to him at the end of
each month during his time of service, and were received by him
without protest or objection.
VOL. IV.

26

UNITED STATES V. MARTIN.

[Sup. Ct.

5. While the claimant was so employed, the pay of ordinary
laborers at the academy was $1.75 a day; and the firemen were
paid $2.50 a day, because the time was longer and the work
harder. The wages of firemen in the works of the gas company, a private corporation, at Annapolis, has since the war
been $2 a day of twelve hours' labor, and they had more work
to do than the claimant had while similarly employed by the
defendants.
6. In the year 1878, the claimant made a formal application,
in writing, to the Fourth Auditor of the Treasury, for arrears of
pay, claimed as due him under the second section of the act of
May 18, 1872, 17 Stat. 134, between the 25th of June, 1868,
and the 19th of May, 1869, on account of his said employment.
The auditor thereupon stated the account, and allowed the
claimant $205.63, which was admitted by the Second Comptroller; and that amount was paid to the claimant, who receipted for the .same, in writing, in full of the account.
The court below dismissed the petition, but, on a subsequent
day of the term, made an order vacating the judgment, and
directing, for the purpose of an appeal, a proforma judgment to
be entered in favor of the claimant in the sum of $1,019.49The United States thereupon appealed.
Mr. Assistant Attorney- GeneralSmith for the United States.
Xr. Charles B. Hovey, contra.
Mi. JUSTIC, HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 25th of June, 1868, Congress passed an act (15 Stat.
77), declaring "that eight hours shall constitute a day's work
for all laborers, workmen, and mechanics now employed, or who
may hereafter be employed, by or on behalf of the government
of the United States." Rev. Stat. sect. 3738.
This was a direction by Congress to the officers and agents
of the United States, establishing the principle to be observed
in the labor of those engaged in its service. It prescribed the
length of time which should amount to a day's work, when no
special agreement was made upon the subject. There are
several things which the act does not regulate, which it may .be
worth while to notice.
First, It does not establish the price to lie paid for a day's

Oct. 1876.]

UNITED

STATES V. MARTIN.

-work. Skilled labor necessarily commands a higher price than
mere manual labor, and whether wages are high or low depends
chiefly upon the inquiry whether those having labor to bestow
are more numerous than those who desire the service of the
laborer. The English statute-books are full of assizes of bread
and ale, commencing as early as the reign of Henry II., and
regulations of labor, and many such are to be found in the
statutes of the several States. It is stated by Adam Smith, as
the law in his day, that in Sheffield no master cutler or weaver
or hatter could have more than two apprentices at a time, and
so lately as the 8th Geo. III., an act, which remained unrepealed
until 1825, was passed, prohibiting, under severe penalties, all
master tailors in London, or within five miles 'of it, from
giving, or their workmen from accepting, more than two shillings sevenpence halfpenny a day, except in the case of general mourning. -Smith's Wealth of Nations, 125 (6th Oxford
ed. of 1869). A different theory is now almost universally
adopted. Principals, so far as the law can give the power, are
entitled to employ as many workmen, and of whatever degree
of skill, and at whatever price, they think fit, and, except in
some special cases, as of children or orphans, the hours of labor
and the price to be paid are left to the determination of the
parties interested. The statute of the United States does not
interfere with this principle. It does not specify any sum
which shall be paid for the labor of eight hours, nor that the
price shall be more when the hours are greater, or less when
the hours are fewer. It is silent as to every thing except the
direction to its officers that eight hours shall constitute a day's
work for a laborer.
2econd, The statute does not provide that the employer and
the laborer may not agree with each other as to what time shall
constitute a day's work. There are some branches of labor,
connected with furnaces, foundries, steam or gas works, where
the labor and the exposure of eight hours a day wQuld soon exhaust the strength of a laborer, and render him permanently an
invalid. The government officer is not prohibited from knowing these facts, nor from agreeing, when it is proper, that a less
number of hours than eight shall be accepted as a day's work.
Noi does the statute intend that, where out-of-door labor in the

UNITED

STATES V. MARTIN.

[[Sup.

Ct.

long days of summer may be offered for twelve hours at an uniform price, the officer may not so contract with a consenting
laborer.
We regard the statute chiefly as in the nature of a direction
from a principal to his agent, that eight hours is deemed to be
a proper length of time for a day's labor, and that his contracts
shall be based upon that theory. It is a matter between the
principal and his agent, in which a third party has no interest.
The proclamation of the President and the act of 1872 are in
harmony with this view of the statute.
We are of the opinion, therefore, that contracts fixing or
giving a different length of time as the day's work are legal
and binding upon the parties making them.
In the case before us, the claimant continued his work, after
understanding that eight hours would not be accepted as a day's
labor, but that he must work twelve hours, as he had done before. He received his pay of $2.50 a day for the work of twelve
hours a day, as a calendar day's work during the period in
question, without protest or objection. At that time ordinary
laborers under the same government received but $1.75 per
day at the same place, and those engaged in the same department with the claimant in a private establishment, at the same
place, received but $2 for a day's work of twelve hours, and the
finding adds, "they had more work to do than the claimant
had while similarly employed." The claimant's contract was
a voluntary and a reasonable one, by which he must now be
bound.
In 1873, the claimant applied for the same arrears of pay as
are here in question, and received from the auditor an award of
$205.63. That amount was paid to the claimant, and he receipted in writing in full for the account. This has often been
held in this court to be a bar to any further claim. United
States v. Justice, 14 Wall. 535 ; United States v. Ohild, 12 id. 232.
Judgment reversed, and cause remanded with directions to
dismiss the petition.

