PIKE V. EVANS.

[Sup. Or,.

in such a case a controversy should arise between Hoadley and
the city as to whether or not the title granted to the city
inured to his benefit under the warranty, the question would
not be as to the effect of the grant from the United States, but
as to that qf the conveyance from the city. The case would
not arise under the laws of the United States, but under tho
Decree affirmed.
deed and its covenants.

PIKE v. EvANs.
1. Although, in Louisiana, informalities which occur in a sheriff's proceecing
under execution may, if taken advantage of in due time, be good grounu
for annulling a sate made by him, yet, if he, being thereunto authorized,
sells the land, and executes a deed therefor, to a bona fide purchaser, the
latter, in an action against him to recover the land, commenced after five
years from the time he entered into possession, can set up the statutory prescription.
2. The failure of the sheriff to actually seize the property is cured by the possession of such a purchaser for five years.
8. Under the laws of Louisiana, a deed of property from a person having authority to sell is regarded as a just title for the purpose of prescription.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
This is a petitory action brought to recover a certaiw plantation in Louisiana. The plaintiff (now defendant;in error)
claimed the land under an act of donation from her uncle,
Ackley Perkins, passed the 5th of September, 1861. Perkins
had purchased the land at sheriff's sale made Aug. 8, 1861,
under a vendor's lien, and gave a twelvemonth's bond for the
purchase-money. One Williams, and William S. Pike, the defendant below (now plaintiff in error), were his sureties on this
bond. The bond not being paid, a writ of fieri facias, under
the laws of Louisiana, was issued upon it against the goods
and lands both of Perkins and his sureties. The sheriff, under
and by virtue of this writ, sold the plantation in question on
the 6th of January, 1866; and Pike, to save his own property
and to protect himself against his liability as surety, became
the purchaser, paid the incumbrance, and went into possession
on the day of sale. He liad been in possession over five years

Oct. 1876.]

PIKE V. EVANS.

when this action was brought; and, amongst other things,
pleaded prescription of one, three, and five years.
On'the trial of the cause, the plaintiff having proved the act
of donation from her uncle, Ackley Perkins, on which she
relied, and the previous purchase of the property by him at
sheriff's sale in August, 1861, the defendant gave in evidence
the twelvemonth's bond executed by Perkins and his sureties
for the purchase-money at said sale, the fieri facias issued
thereon in October, 1865, and the sheriff's deed to him dated
Jan. 6, 1866, and introduced evidence tending to show that he,
the defendant, had been in possession of the property in question for a period of five years, and that he purchased the
property at the sheriff's sale; and thereupon he asked the court
to charge, that if the jury found that he had been in possession
for a period of five years, and that he purchased the same from
any person authorized to sell at public auction, then any
informality connected -ith or growing out of the sale was
cured by the lapse of five years. The court gave the instruction asked, but added, "If the sheriff did not seize the property,
that is an informality which is not cured by possession for five
years." The counsel for the defendant excepted to this
modification.
There was a judgment for 'the plaintiff below, whereupon
the defendant sued out this writ of error.
Mr. Thomas J. Dtrant for the plaintiff in error.
The court below erred in charging the jury as to the effect
of the sheriff's failure to seize the property. Walden v.
(anfield, 2 Rob. (La.) 472; -Drouet v. Rice, id.. 877; Leduf
v. Bailly, 8 La. Ann. 8; Brien v. Sargent, 13 id. 198; Robert
v. Brown, 14 id. 598; Budd v. Stenson, 20 id. 57&; Woods v.
Lee, 21 id. 505 et seq. ; Pasianav. Powell, id. 584.
Mr. George W. Paschal, contra.
The omission of the sheriff to actually seize the property
rendered the sale absolutely null and void. There was, therefore, no error in the charge of the court below. Watson v.
Bondurant, 21 Wall. 123; Stockton v. -Downey, 6 La. Ann.
581; Birclh v. Bates, 22 id. 198.
In Horton v. Reynolds, 4 Rob. (La.) 26, it was held that
the prescription of five years related to and cured merely irreg-

PIKE V. EVANS.

[Sup. OL

ularities in the advertisements, time, place, and terms of sale
occurring after a legal seizure. But informalities could not
apply to all maner of nullities. The statute is not curative
of such.
MR.JUSTICE BRADiEy, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
Sundry bills of exception were taken in the course of the
trial of this action, but as the one quoted in the preceding
statement of the case was, in our view, well taken, and is
decisive, it is unnecessary to advert to them further.
By a law of Louisiana, passed March 10, 1884, sect. 4, it
was enacted,

"That all informalities connected with or growing out of any
sale made by a parish judge, sheriff, auctioneer, or other public
officer, shall, after the lapse of five years from the time of making
the same, be prescribed against by those claiming under such sales,
whether against minors, married women, or persons interdicted."
This law continued in force until 1870, when it was superseded by a general provision contained in the Revised Statutes of 1870 (sect. 3302, p. 659), and in the Civil Code, as
published in that year, art. 8543, the terms of which are as
follows:

-

"All informalities connected with or growing out of any public
sale made by any person authorized to sell at public auction shall
be prescribed against by those claiming under such sale, after the
lapse of five years from the time of making it, whether against
minors, married women, or interdicted persons."
Other articles of the Civil Code of Louisiana on the subject
of prescription require that the person who sets it up in relation
to an immovable must have acquired the immovable in good
faith and by a just title. Thus, art. 3478 declares that "he
who acquires an immovable in good faith and by a just title
prescribes for it in ten years." Arts. 3484 and 3485 declare
that by the term just title, in cases of prescription, is not
meant that which has been derived from the true owner, but
that which has been received from any person whom the possessor honestly believed to be the real owner, provided it were

Oct. 18T6.]

PIKE V. EVANS.

such as to transfer the ownership of the property; that is, such
as by its nature would have been sufficient to transfer the
ownership, if it had been derived from the real owner, such as
a sale, exchange, legacy, or donation.
The Supreme Court of Louisiana has frequently had occasion
to construe the effect of these laws.
In Walden v. Canfield, 2 Rob. (La.) 468, where prescription
was set up under a title based on a marshal's sale, the court
said: "The defendants have produced a regular judgment,
writ of execution, and a deed of sale from the marshal to their
author; and, under the well settled and repeatedly established
doctrine of our jurisprudence, that in relation to sales under
execution, where a purchaser shows a judgment, writ of execution, and sale, under which he holds, his title will be considered
as legal and valid, we think that on this point the defendants
have satisfactorily complied with the requisites of the law;
and that, as their title being a just one, that is to say, one
which of itself was sufficient to transfer the property in dispute, it is such as can legally serve as the basis of the pvescription. It is true that the plaintiff has attempted to attack the
defendants' original sale on the ground of informality in the
other proceedings of the marshal; but this, in our opinion,
cannot change, or in any way alter the effect of the defendants'
title, if they have really possessed under it, during the time
required by law to acquire the property by prescription, before
the institution of this suit, or, in other words, before the alleged
informalities were set up against the presumed legality and
validity of their title."
In Leduf v. Bailly, 3 La. Ann. 8, the same doctrine was held
where the irregularity complained of was that the sheriff's
deed did not purport to convey the interest of the party from
whom the plaintiffs deduced title. The judgment and execution were against him and others, but the sheriff's deed omitted
his name. The defendants holding under this deed pleaded
prescription, and the court held it a sufficient title to base prescription upon. "1No evidence has been adduced," said the
court, " o repel the legal presumption that the defendants'
possession commenced in good faith."
So, in Brien v. Sargent, 18 id. 198, want of due notice of

PIKE V. EVANS.

[Sup. Ot.

seizure by the sheriff was held to be no obstacle to prescription
being set up by one who claimed under the sheriff's sale; there
being no evidence to impeach the defendant's good faith, and
he having shown a regular judgment, execution, and sheriff's
deed.
The subsequent case of Robert v. Brown, 14 id. 605, shows
what kind of objections to a judicial sale may render it ineffectual as a basis of prescription. There a commission to sell
the property of minors was issued without any order of sale.
The court held that there was a total want of authority to
sell; and that, in such a case, the prescription of five years
could not be claimed under the statute, but that it only cured
those informalities which may occur in the execution of a
decree or other authority to sell. This case is analogous to
that which would be presented if a sale were made under an
execution without any judgment to support it.
From these authorities (and others to the same effect could
be cited) it is evident that although informalities occurring in
a sheriff's proceedings under execution may be good ground for
annulling a sale made by him if taken advantage of in time,
yet that if the sheriff has authority to sell, and does sell, and
execute a deed to the purchaser, the latter, if a purchaser in
good faith, may set up the prescription of five years under the
statute. Applying this rule to the case before us, we think
the court erred in holding that, if the sheriff did not actually
seize the property, it was such an informality as could not be
cured by possession for five years. The case of -Miorton v. Reynolds, 4 Rob. (La.) 26, referred to by the defendant in error,
which seems to hold that the only informalities cured by five
years' possession are those occurring in the advertisement of
sale, is overruled by subsequent cases, and is contrary to the
general current of decisions made by the Supreme Court of
Louisiana. The case of Watson v. Bondurant, 21 Wall. 123,
was very different from the present. In that case the question
of prescription did not arise. Bondurant, the mortgagee, procured the property to be sold by the sheriff without any actual
seizure or notice to Watson, who was in possession, and bought
the same himself, and then brought his action to recover possession. Under those circumstances, it was competent to Wat-

Oct. 1876.]

ATLANTIC AND PACIFIC R.R. Co. v. HOPKINS.

11

son to take advantage of any informality in the sale; and we
held that the want of seizure invalidated it. So, in this case,
if the defendant in error had proceeded in due time, the informalities relied on, if existing in point of fact, would probably have been sufficient to invalidate the sale. But that is
not the question here. The question here ii not whether the
plaintiff in error had a good title, but whether he had such a
just title as the law of Louisiana requires to lay the foundation
of prescription; and of this we think, under the statute, and in
view of the authorities cited, there is no doubt. lie received
a deed from a person who had authority to sell; and that is
regarded as just title for the purpose of prescription.
This decision renders it unnecessary to examine the preliminary objections raised by the defendant in error on the question of supersedeas. The objection that the bills of exception
were signed after the term at which the trial was had is met
by the fact that the delay was made by the consent of the parties and the order of the court, and whilst a motion for new
trial was pending.
Judgment reversed and record remanded, with directions to
award a venire facias de novo.

ATLAN TIO AND PACIFIC RAILROAD COMIA Y v. HOPKINS.
1. In Kansas, an order of a court in a proceeding in aid of execution directing
a garnishee to pay to the judgment creditor money which he owes to the
judgment debtor is not a judgment, and does not determine finally the liability of the garnishee.
2. Therefore, in such a proceeding, an order of the circuit court of the United
States, sitting in that State, awarding execution against a garnishee, is
erroneous.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas.
On the 80th of November, 1872, Hopkins obtained, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Kansas,
a judgment against the St. Louis, Lawrence, and Denver Railroad Company for $6,885, with interest and costs of suit.
Upon this judgment two executions were issued, and returned
unsatisfied.

