DOYLE v. WISCONSIN.

[Sup. Ot.

risk. The letter of the defendants clearly manifested an mtention not to deliver the bonds unless they were genuine, or
unless the plaintiffs would take them at their own risk. On
any other terms the plaintiffs had a right to take them. Inquiry and notice to defendants afterwards would have been
idle, and would have been no precaution. Consequently the
receipt of the bonds hy the plaintiffs, after the notice given to
them, can have no other meaning than that they took them at
their own risk.
MR. JUSTICE DAVIS did not sit in this case.

DoYLE v. WiscoSnx.
Sect. 1007 of the Revised Statutes, which, as amended by the act of Feb. 18,
1875 (18 Stat. part 8,p. 316), provides that, where a writ of error may operate
as a supersedeas,execution shall not issue until the expiration of ten days after
the rendition of the judgment, has reference only to the judgments of the
courts of the United States.

ON motion to set aside proceedings in execution of a judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Wisconsin.
On the fifteenth day of August, 1876, the Supreme Court of
Wisconsin rendered a judgment ordering that "a peremptory
writ of qnandamus do forthwith issue out of and under the seal
of the court, to be directed to the respondent [plaintiff in
error], commanding him, and in his absence the assistant
secretary of State, forthwith, within twenty-four hours after
the service of the writ," to recall the license given by him to
the Continental Insurance Company of the city of New York
to do business in that State. The writ was issued and served
on the same day, and on the next, Aug. 16, its command was
obeyed. On the 10th October, 1876, this writ of error was
sued out in due form, and bond given to operate as a super.edeas.
The plaintiff in error now moves that all the proceedings in
execution of the judgment within ten days after its rendition

Oct. 1876.]

DOYLE V. WISCONSIN.

may be vacated and set aside, and that all further process be
stayed.
Argued, for the plaintiff in error, by Mr. William Allen
Butler and Mr. I 0. ,Sloan, who cited Slaughter-House Cases,
10 Wall. 273; Telegraph Co. v. -Eyser,19 id. 419; Board of
Commissioners v. Gorman, id. 661; Kitchen v. Bandolph, 93
U. S. 86.
Xir. Oharles W. _Pelker, contra.
MR. OCiF_ JUSTICE WArIm delivered the opinion of the
court.
The claim on the part of the plaintiff in error is, that as a
writ of error to operate as a supersedeasmight issue from this
court to re-examine the judgment of the court below, a writ
to carry the judgment into effect could not issue from the
State court until the expiration of ten days after the rendition of the judgment. Whether this is so or not depends
upon the effect to be given to that clause in sect. 1007,
Revised Statutes, which, as amended by the act of Feb. 18,
1875, 18 Stat., part 3, p. 316, reads as forows: "And in such
cases, when a writ of error may be a supersedeas, executions
shall not issue until the expiration of ten days;" that is to
say, until the expiration of ten days after the rendition of the
judgment.
The writ of error was issued. in this case under sect. 709 of
the Revised Statutes, which is a reproduction of sect. 25 of the
Judiciary Act of 1789, 1 Stat. 85, as amended before the
revision. The part of sect. 1007 referred to is the reproduction of a similar provision in sect. 23 of the same act. The
Revised Statutes are a revision and consolidation of the old
statutes, rather than an enactment of new. 16 Stat. 96; 14
id. 75, sect. 2. Sect. 5600 provides .that "the arrangement
and classification of the several sections of the revision have
been-made for the purpose of a more convenient and orderly
arrangement of the same, and, therefore, no inference or presumption of a legislative construction is to be drawn by reason
of the title under which any particular section is placed." This
makes it proper that we should look to the original act to
ascertain the legislaive intent in cases of doubt.

DOYLE V. WISCONSIN.

[Sup. Or.

Going, then, to the old law, we find that sect. 22 relates
entirely to writs of error for the review of judgments and
decrees in the courts of the United States. Then follows
sect. 23, which provides "that a writ of error as aforesaid,"
clearly referring to the writ provided for in the preceding
section, "shall be a supersedeas, and 'stay execution in cases
only where the writ of error is served . . . within ten days,
Sundays exclusive, after rendering the judgment or passing the decree complained of. Until the expiration of the
term of ten days, execution shall not issue in any case where a
writ of error may be a supersedeas." Read in this connection,
it is clear that the provision for delay of execution refers only
to judgments and decrees in the courts of the United States.
Sect. 25 then provides for writs of error to a State court, and
adopts the regulations of sect. 22, as to the writ and proceedings
under it, but omits entirely any direction as to delay of execution upon the judgment.
From this we think it manifest that it was not the inten
tion of Congress, under the act of 1789, to interfere at all with
the practice of the State courts as to executions upon their
judgments, until a supersedeas was actually perfected, and that
the same effect must be given to the corresponding sections of
the revision. In Board of Commissioners v. Gorman, 19 Wall.
664, we held that if an execution was issued upon a judgment
in the courts of the United States after the expiration of ten
days, a supersedeas afterwards obtained would prevent further
proceedings under the execution, but would not interfere with
what bad already been done.
Applying this principle to the case in hand, it follows that,
as the writ of mandamus was rightfully issued and served
before the supersedeas was obtained, this motion must be
Xotion denied.
denied.

