Oct. 1876.]

Oct.876.]
SMITH V.UITED~ STATES.

If he fails to do this he acquires no title, and his invention
or discovery, no matter what it may be, is lost to him, and is
henceforward no more his than if he had never been in any wise
connected with it. It is made, thereupon, as it were by accretion, irrevocably a part of the domain which belongs to the
community at large. The invention here in question is within
this category.
Decree affirmed.

SM1TH V. UNTTED STATES.
This court will refuse to hear a criminal case, unless the convicted party suing
out the writ of error is where he can be made to respond to any judgment
which may be rendered here.

•ERRoR to the Supreme Court of Washington Territory.
Mr. John J. M Gilvra for the plaintiff in error.
MAr. sSolicitor-Ceneral Phillips,contra.
M] . CmS

delivered the opinion of the

JUSTICE WAT

court.
It is clearly within our discretion to refuse to hear a criminal
case in error, unless the convicted party, suing out the writ, is
where he can be made to respond to any judgment we may
render. In this case it is admitted that the plaintiff in error
has. escaped, and is not within the control of the cofirt below,
either actually, by being in custody, or constructively, by being
out on bail. If we affirm the judgment, he is not likely to
appear to submit to his sentence. If we reverse it and order a
new trial, he will appear or not, as he may consider most for
his interest. Under such circumstances, we are not inclined to
hear and decide what may prove to be only a moot case.
This cause was docketed here Dec. 29, 1870. In due time
a brief was filed on behalf of the plaintiff in error, and the
cause has been regularly continued at every term since, no one
appearing here in person to represent the plaintiff. At this
term we dismissed the writ, on motion of the United States,
for want of prosecution, but have since reinstated At on motion
of the counsel for the plaintiff in error, who now moves to have
it set down for argument. This motion we deny, and order
VOL. IV.

7

OMAHA V. HAMMOND.

[Sup. Ct.

that, unless the plaintiff in error submit himself to the jurisdiction of the court below on or before the first day of our next
term, the cause be left off the docket after that time. The
People v. Genet, 59 N. Y. 80; Leftwich's Case, 20 Gratt. 723;
Commonwealth v. Andrews, 97 Mass. 544; see also 81 Me. 592.
Motion to set down the casefor argument denied.

OMAHA v. IAMMOD.
Where a contract, entered into by a city for the construction of certain publia
works, provides that they shall be completed under the supervision and to the
satisfaction of an officer of the city, his action, in finally accepting them, is
an announcement of his decision that the terms of the contract have been
complied with, and is binding upon the city.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Nebraska.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. S.A. iStrickland for
the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. -E. Wakely for the defendant
in error.

MR.JUrsTIcE, MniLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendant in error, plaintiff below, sued the city ot
Omaha on a contract for the construction of two public wells
in the streets of that city. The contract was in writing, and
by its terms plaintiff was "to sink and construct two wells,
. . .said wells to be circular, twelve feet in diameter, and to
be curbed with a brick wall nine inches in thickness, and
arched over in a secure and proper manner, the whole to be
completed under the supervision and to the satisfaction of the
chief engineer of the fire department of said city."
For this work the city was to pay plaintiff "one hundred dollars for each and every one thousand gallons of water which
each of said wells shall be capable of producing, and shall produce, within twenty-four hours; the capacity of said wells to
be tested by the chief engineer of the fire department of the
city of Omaha aforesaid. And upon the report of said officer
being made to the council of said city, showing that the wells

