100

WEST WISCONSIN RAILWAY Co. v. FOLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

the propriety of auxiliary shafts, or any other matter tending
to increase the flow of water, were left absolutely to the engineer. The whole work was to be done under his supervision
and to his satisfaction. It is proved that the depth of the main
shaft was determined by him in reference to the length of the
hose to be inserted in it. And the auxiliary shaft was also
sunk under his direction and with his approval. The city cannot now complain that it was done as he directed.
The instructions of the court were in accord with these
views, and they are not erroneous because the judge added to
this action of the engineer, as binding the city, the further fact
of their acceptance and use of the wells. Whether the fact bad
any significance or not, they were cetainly bound by the action
of the engineer.
it was also of no consequence that the court refused to instruct the jury "that if the plaintiff did not construct said wells
according to the terms of his contract, he cannot recover, even
though the wells have been used by the authorities of the city,"
ecause, as to the only matters in dispute, the engineer had by
the contract been constituted the arbiter, and had decided in
Judgment affirmed.
the plaintiff's favor.

WEST

WIscoNsiN RAILWAY COmx-PANY v. FOLEY.

1. Under the twenty-third rule, in relation to damages, where a writ of error was
sued out merely for delay, more than ten per cent upon the amount of the
judgment cannot be awarded, but the court may give less.
2. Being satisfied that this case is one to which that rule should be applied, the
court, affirming the judgment below for $26,333, with costs, awards, in additibn to interest, $500 damages.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Wisconsin.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Argued by Mr. William P. Vilas, for the defendant in error.
No cousel appeared for the plaintiff in error.

MR. Cmne' JUSTICE@ WAn delivered the opinion of the
court.
It is clear that there is no error in this record. The answer

Oct. 1876.]

WEsi WIscONsN

RAILWAY

Co. v.

FOLEY.

101

-does not state facts sufficient to constitute a defence to the
-action. No counsel have appeared to prosecute the suit, no
brief has been filed, and no error assigned. We are entirely
satisfied that the case has been brought here for delay, and that
it is proper to adjudge" just damages for delay," under the provisions of sect. 1010, Rev. Stat. The only difficulty we have
had has been in respect to the amount.
The original Judiciary Act of 1789 contained a similar pro.
vision to that embraced in sect. 1010. 1 Stat. 85, ยง 28. Under that, rules were adopted by this court at the February
Term, 1803, by which it was pr6vided that, in cases where it
appeared that the writ had been sued out "merely for delay,
damages shall be awarded at the rate of ten per cent per
annum on the amount of the judgment," and in cases where
there existed a real controversy, "the damages shall be only at
the rate of six per cent per annum. In both cases the interest to be computed as part of the damages." Rules 17, 18;
1 Craneh, xviii. At the February Term, 1807, it was ordered
that the damages given by these rules should be calculated
to the day of the affirmance of the judgment in this court.
4 Cranch, Appendix.
In 1842, Congress enacted "that on -all judgments in civil
cases . . . recovered in the Circuit and District Courts of the
United States, interest shall be allowed, . . to be calculated
from the date of the judgment, and at such Tate per annum as
is allowed by law on judgments recovered in the courts of"
"the State in which such Circuit or District Court shall be
held." 5 Stat. 518, ยง_8. Notwithstanding this statute, the
rule adopted previously remained in force without amendment
until the case of Mitchell v. Harmony, 13 How. 115, decided at
the December Term, 1851. Then it became necessary for this
court to ascertain the amount due upon the judgment of the
Circuit'Court in that case after its affirmance; and the direct
question was presented, whether only damages at the rAte of six
'per cent should be added to the amount of the judgment, in
accordance with the rule, or interest at seven per cent per
annum, that being the rate allowed by law on judgments recovered in the courts of the State. After consideration, damages only were allowed according to the rule; but during the

102

WEST WIscoNSmN

RAILWAY

Co. v.

FOLiY.

[Sup. Ct.

term the rule was amended, to take effect Dec. 1, 1852, so as
to make it conform -to the statute. 13 id. v. At the next
term, December, 1852, a similar question was presented in Perkins v. Fourniquet,14 id. 328. There a judgment of the Circuit Court of Mississippi had been affirmed at the December
Term, 1851, and damages adjudged at the rate of six per cent
per annum, as given by the rule, while the laws of Mississippi
allowed interest on judgments in the State courts at eight
per cent per annum. When the execution went out from the
court below, it required the collection of the judgment with
interest at the rate of eight per cent per annum, and damages
at the rate of six per cent in addition. This action of the Circuit Court having been- brought here for review, the recovery
was limited to the amount of the judgment and the damages
given by the rule. The opinion of the court, by Mr. Chief Justice Taney, proceeded upon the ground that the act of 1842 did
not apply to judgments in this court, but to those in the Circuit and District Courts alone. The rules had been changed
at the previous term, he said, not because of "any supposed
repugnancy between them and the act of 1842, but because the
court deemed it just to place th6 judgments in this court upon
the same footing with the judgments in the Circuit and District Courts; and that suitors in the courts of the United
States should stand on the same ground with suitors in the
State courts, in its appellate as well as in its inferior tribunals." p. 831.
At the December Term, 1858, our rules were revised and
corrected. No change was made in those relating to this subject, except that in cases where the writ of error was taken
for delay only, it was provided that "the damages shall be calculated from the date of the judgment in the court below until
the money is paid." 21 id. xiii., rule 23.
Under these rules it is apparent that "just damages for delay" we e made to take the place of interest during the delay;
and this practice'continued until the December Term, 1870,
when the present rule, in respect to cases where the writ appeared to have been sued out for delay merely, was- adopted.
It is as follows: "In all cases where a writ of error Ahall delay
the proceedings on the judgment of thz inferior cour. and shall

Oct. 1876.]

WEST WISCONSIN

IAmWAY

Co. v. FOLEY.

103

appear to have been sued out merely for delay, damages at the
rate of ten per cent, in addition to interest, shall be awarded
upon the amount of the judgment." 11 Wall. x.
This is a radical change, and requires us to consider the
question of damages as something distinct from that of interest.
Heretofore we have never found it necessary to decide whether,
if damages are to be awarded at all, they must be to the full
amount of ten per cent upon the judgment, or may be less.
This case is one in which, as we think, that question is fairly
presented. The defence, though not in law a good one, certainly shows some circumstances in mitigation of damages in
excess of interest as compensation for delay.
Under the old rules, the court was sometimes asked to give
damages beyond those prescribed. This was always denied;
but, so far as we have been able to discover, it has never
been'decided that less could not be given, under proper circumstances. "Shall" ought undoubtedly to be construed as
meaning "must," for the purpose of sustaining or enforcing an
existing right; but it need not be for creating a new one. Neither under the statute nor the rule has a party the legal right
to demand a judgment for damages in excess of interest. The
amount of the damages, as well as the propriety of giving any
at all, is left to the judicial discretion of the court. This
being the case, we think the rule may fairly be construed
as limiting the amount beyond which -we cannot go, but as
leaving us at liberty to give less than the full sum in cases
where, in our judgment, the circumstances are such as to make
it proper to do so. An inflexible rule, requiring us to award a
certain specified amount, or none at all, would oftentimes operate to defeat itself. The object is to discourage frivolous
appeals, as well as to compensate to some extent for the loss
which results from delay. Oftentimes ten per cent upon the
amount of a judgment might far exceed the loss actually sustained; and in such cases we might decline to award damages
at all, if we could not give less, because of the wrong that
would be inflicted if we did give them. Thus one of the benefits anticipated from the rule would be lost.
Under these circumstances we hold that while, with the rule
in force, we cannot award as damages for delay more than ten

COMMISSIONERS, ETc.,

v.

[Sup. Ct.

BOLLES.

per cent upon the amount of the judgment, we may, in the
exercise of our discretion, give less.
Judgment affirmed, with costs, and five hundred dollars damages for the delay, in addition to interest at the rate allowed
by law and the rules of this court.
NOTE. - In another case between the same parties, the same action was had
by the court as in the preceding case.

COmmISSIONERS OF DOUGLAS COUNTY

v.

BOLLES,

1. Where a railroad company has been a corporation de facto from the date of
its organization, its existence and its ability to contract cannot be called in
question in a suit brought upon evidences of debt given to it.
2. Under the act of the legislature of Kansas, to authorize counties and cities to
issue bonds to railroad companies, approved April 10, 1865, and that of Feb.
25, 1868, the board of commissioners of a county is authorized to determine
whether the condition precedent to the lawful issue of such bonds has been
complied with.
8. A recital by the board in the bonds, showing that such condition has been
complied with, is, when they are in the hands of a bona fide holder for value,
binding upon the county; and he is bound to look !or nothing behind the
recital except legislative authority for the issue of them.

E.RRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas.
This was an action by Matthew Bolles and M. Shepard
Bolles against the board of county commissioners of the county
of Douglas, Kansas, upon sundry coupons attached to certain
bonds issued by the county. The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The following questions of law arose, upon which the judges
of the court below were divided in opinion 1. Whether, as respects the bonds dated July 1, 1869, and
the coupons in suit originally attached to said bonds, there was
authority and power in the board of county commissioners of
the county to issue said bonds under the act of Feb. 10, 1865,
recited in the bonds and other acts of the legislature of the
State of Kansas, including the act of Feb. 25, 1868.
2. Whether the bonds mentioned in the preceding question
are void in thu hands of a holder for value without actual

