500-

EYSTER V. CENTENNIAL BOARD OF FINANCE.

[Sup. C.

EYSTFR v. CENTENwIAL BOARD OF FINIANCE.
In the distribution of the moneys remaining in the treasury of the Centennial
Board of Finance at the close of that corporation, as provided for in sect. 10
of the act of Congress of June 1, 1872 (17 Stat. 203), the appropriation of
$1,600,000, made by the act of Feb. 16, 1876 (19 id. 3), must be paid into the
treasury of the United States before any division of assets is made among the
stockholders in satisfaction and discharge of the capital stock.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Assis'ant Attorney- General Smith and Mr. William M
Springer for the appellant.
Mr. William Henry Rawle and Mir. Robert N. Willson, contra.

MR. CHEF JUSTICE WArrE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This case presents the single question whether, in the distribution of the moneys remaining in the treasury of the Centennial
Board of Finance at the close of the affairs of that corporation,
as provided for in sect. 10 of the act of June 1, 1872, the
appropriation of $1,500,000 made by Congress in the act of
Feb. 16, 1876, must be paid into the treasury of the United
States before any division of assets is made among the stockholders in satisfaction and discharge of the capital stock.
It is very apparent that the object of Congress, in all its legislation with reference to the Centennial Exhibition, was to enable the people of the United States to commemorate "the
completion of the first century of their national existence" by
an exhibition "in which the people of the whole country should
participate," and which should have the sanctibn of the government. In that sense, the object was national; but it is equally
clear, that, until the act of 1876, it was expected that the entire
expense would be borne by the people without assistance from
Congress. Certainly, no pecuniary liability whatever was assumed by Cngress. That is declared in the most positive
terms.
The acts of 1871 and 1872 did nothing more than provide
the necessary organizations through which the people might

Oct. 1876.]

EYSTER V. CENTENNIAL BOARD OF FINANcE.

501

operate under the auspices of the government. That of 1871
authorized the appointment of the board of commissioners,,
which was afterwards, by the act of 1872, incorporated as the.

"United States Centennial Commission." The duty of this
board was to prepare and superintend the execution of a plan
for holding the exhibition. That of 1872 was @pecially intended
to provide a way by which the people could procure the necessary funds. It was so expressly declared in the preamble; and
for that purpose the Centennial Board of, Finance was incorporated, with apt provisions for subscription to and sale of its
capital stock, and for the control and management of its affairs.
The proceeds of the stock, together with the receipts from all
other sources, were to be used by this corporation for the erection of buildings with their appurtenances, and for all other
expenditures required in carrying out the objects of the act of
1871. Then, by sect. 10, it was provided, "that, as soon as
practicable after the said exhibition shall have been closed, it
shall be the duty of -aid corporation to convert its property
into cash, and, after the payment of its liabilities, to divide its
remaining assets among its stockholders, pro rata,in full satisfaction and discharge of its capital stock."
Afterward came the act of 1876, which made the appropriation now under consideration, "to complete the . . .buildings
and other preparations," and directed its payment to the*presi
dent and treasurer of the Centennial Board of Finance for that
purpose, but which contained a proviso, "that in the distribution of any moneys that may remain in the treasury of the
Centennial Board of Finance after the payment of its debts,
as provided for by the tenth section of the act of Congress
approved June 1, 1872, incorporating the Centennial Board of
Finance, the appropriation hereinbefore made shall be paid in
full into the treasury of the United States before any dividend
or percentage of profits shall be paid to the holders of said
stock; " and "that the government of the United States shall
not, under any circumstances, be liable for any debt or obligation of the United States Centennial Commission or the Centennial Board of Finance, or any payment in addition to thu
foregoing sum."
The whole controversy arises upon this proviso. On the one

502

EYSTER V. CENTENNIAL BOARD OF FINANCE.

[Sup. Ct.

hand, it is contended that it requires the repayment to the
United States of the full amount of their appropriation before
any distribution can be made to the stockholders ;. and, on the
other, that the stockholders must be reimbursed for their stock
subscriptions before any payment is made to the United States.
It becomes necessary, therefore, to ascertain the intention of
Congress in this particular, and for that purpose the acts of
1871, 1872, and 1876, being in pari materia, are to be examined and construed together.
There is no doubt but that the act of 1876 appropriated
public moneys for the completion of the centennial buildings
and other preparations. Neither is there any doubt that, under
circumstances, the Centennial Board of Finance was
required to pay back to the treasury of the United States the
full amount of the appropriation. The corporation assumed
such an obligation by taking the money upon the conditions
imposed. If this did not create a debt, technically so called, it
certainly did create a liability. The act of 1872 provided for a
division of the assets of the corporation among the stockholders, only after the payment of all liabilities; and, unless the
contract entered into otherwise directs, it would seem to be
clear, that, so far as that act is concerned, the United States
must be paid in full before the stockholders can claim any distribution among themselves.
In the act of 1876, the language is somewhat different. By
that the United States are to be paid out of the moneys that
remain in the treasury of the company, after the payment of
the debts. If this were all, the intention would be manifest.
The liability of a corporation to its stockholders on account of
their stock is not a debt. The shares of a stockholder represent his proportion of the property of a corporation; and, upon
the winding up of its affairs, the assets remaining after all liabilities are discharged are for division among the stockholders,
according to their respective interests. The payment to stockholders upon such a division is for a dividend of the property
divided, not for a debt owing by the corporation. The United
States, then, even under this act, are entitled to a preference
over the stockholders, unless the words "before any dividend
or percentage of profits shall be paid to the holders of such

-certain

Oct. 1876.]

EYSTEB v. CENTENNIAL BOARD Or FINANCE.

503

stock" change the condition of the parties. This will depend
much upon the signification of the term "profits" as here used.
In construing statutes, some effect should, if possible, be
given to every word employed to express the legislative will.
Nothing should be rejected, if it can be avoided; and nothing
can be added, except by implication from what is expressed.
As in the act of 1872 stockholders are not to be paid any
thing until all liabilities are discharged, and in that of 1876
the United States are to be reimbursed before any profits can
be divided; and no provision is made for the redemption of
capital stock, except upon a division of the profits, it is apparent that, if such a redemption is to be nade before the liability
of the United States is satisfied, something must be supplied in
the statute, by implication, that has been apparently omitted.
The presumption is, however, that every thing has been expressed which was intended; and, if an effect can properly be
given to the word "profits" that will harmonize the two statutes, without a resort to implication, it should be done.
The capital stock uf this corporation was not employed in,
but to prepare for, the business of the contemplated exhibition ;
and the receipts of the exhibition, over and above its current
expenses, are the profits of the business. These were the
only profits anticipated. They are, in fact, the net receipts,
which, according to the common understanding, ordinarily
represent the profits of a business. The public, when referring to the profits of the business of a merchant, rarely ever
take into account the depreciation of the* buildings in which
the business is carried on, notwithstanding they may have been
erected out of the capital invested. Popularly speaking, the
net receipts of a business are its profits. So hern, as the business to be carried on was that of an exhibition. and its profits
were to be derived only from its receiptd, to the popular mind
the net receipts would represent the net profits.
Giving that signification to the word in this case, we encounter no difficulties. The statutes are complete, and there is nothing to supply. Every thing is in harmony, and no strained
construction is required. All accounts are easily adjusted,
without resort to unusual proceedings.
When a corporation is to be wound up, there is not, ordina-

504

EYSTEP V. CENTENNIAL BOARD OF FINANCE.

[Sup. Ct.

rily, a necessity f6r an account of profits. After the liabilities
are paid, the remaining assets belong to the stockholders, and
all that need be done is to make the proper division. For
that purpose, it is quite immaterial whether what remains is
profit or capital. In either case, it belongs to-the stockholders,
and is to be distributed among them pro rata. Such a division
produces a dividend, - that is to say, a part or si /re of the
thing divided. If the division is of profits, the, bhe dividend
is of profits ; if of capital, then of capital. Thc divide-ds declared by a corporation in business usually a) e, and, except
under special circumstances, always should b, from profits.
Hence, the word frequently carries with it the ilea of a division
of profits; but that is not necessarily its only meaning. Its
special signification, in any particular case, is always depe-ident
upon the character of the thing divided.
By the act of 1872, the assets were to be reduced to cash,
liabilities paid, and the remainder divided among stockholders.
The words "in satisfaction and discharge of its capital stock"
add nothing to, and take nothing from, what precedes; and
the whole of that part of sect. 10, taken together, provide.r for
nothing more than what would have been done without it. If
there had not been a word upon the subject, the law would
have disposed of the property in precisely the same way, and
the stockholders could have compelled a settlement upon that
basis.
The act of 1876 requires the payment of debts, and then the
reimbursement of the United States before a distribution of
profits to stockholders. Not a word is said about restoring capital: in fact, there is no mention of capital at all. The act of
1872 is not repealed. On the contrary, it is left in full force
in every particular, save that the new liability incfrred to the
United States is made payable after those contemplated by the
act of 1872 are satisfied in full. In this, the United States
made a concession to creditors, but not to the stockholders.
Neither was any thing taken from stockholders: they retain
all the rights which the act of 1872 gave them. If there had
been no appropriation by Congress, the corporation would
have been driven to the necessity of raising the required means,
by borrowing or a further sale of stock. If by borrowing, the

Oct. 1876.]

EYSTER V. CENTENNIAL BOARD OF FINANCE.

505

debt so created would have to be paid with the others, before
there could be any dividend to stockholders. If by sale of
stock, the new stockholders would come .in _pro rata with the
old apon the final division of the assets.
Congress might have advanced the money by loan as well
as upon the conditions it did impose. It might also have
subscribed to the stock. If a loan had been made, and there
had been no waiver of the legal rights of the government as a
creditor, this debt would have preference over all others in the
order of payment. If stock had been taken, the government
would have participated in the final distribution like any other
stockholder. It seemed best, however, not to adopt either of
these plans, and another was devised, by which creditors were
given a preference, and the United States remitted for their
indemnity to the fund which might remain after all the debts
were paid. To this the corporation assented, and. the stock
holders cannot now complain. Creditors were protected, and
stockholders not injured.
We think, therefore, that Congress did not intend, by the
act of 1876, to -change the order of distribution as provided by
that of 1872, except by giving a preference to other liabilities
over that to the United States, and that the word "profits"
was used in 1876 to represent the net receipts of the business
of the exhibition to be had in the buildings erected and upon
the grounds prepared for its accommodation by means of the
capital of the Centennial Board of Finance. In this way
"profits," in the act of 1876, and "remaining assets," in that
of 1872, have substantially the same meaning; dnd the two
statutes are relieved from all discrepancies, without doing
violence to the language of either.
If the impaired capital is made good out of the profits, it
will be for the purposes of distribution only. Indirectly, therefore, a division of the capital unimpaired would operate as a
dividend of profits, because, before the stockholders could be
paid in full the receipts of the business must be applied to
supply the deficiency arising from depreciation. Such a dividend is pirohibited.
The decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the
cause remanded, with instructions fo enter a decree directing

ALLORE V. JEWELL.

[Sup. C

the payment of the sum of $1,500,00a into the treasury of the
United States by the Centennial Board of Finance before any
division of the remaining assets of that corporation is made
among the stockholders, and it is
So ordered.
M_ JUSTICE STRONG dissented.

ALLORE v. JEWELL.
1. Whenever there is great weakness of mind, though not amounting to absolute
disqualification, arising from age, sickness, or any other cause, in a person
executing a conveyance, andkthe consideration given for the land is grossly
inadequate, - court of equity will, upon proper and seasonable application
of the injured party, or his representatives or heirs, interfere and set the
corveyance aside.
2. When a person, from infirmity and mental weakness, is likely to be easily
influenced by others, transactions entered into by such person without independent advice will be set aside, if there is any unfairness in them. The
principle upon which courts act in such cases, applied to a conveyance of
land obtained from a woman advanced in years, of doubtful sanity, living
entirely by herself, without friends to take care of her, and confined to
her house by sickness.
8. The lapse of time, six years, before bringing suit to cancel a conveyance so
obtained, cannot avail the defendant where he has had possession of the
land, and a reasonable rent therefor is equal to the value of his improvements thereon, and there has been no loss of evidence preventing a full
presentation of the case.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Michigan.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Hr. Alfred Russell for the appellant.
M1r. A. B. Maynard, contra.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit brought by the heir-at-law of Marie Genevieve
Thibault, late of Detroit, Mich., to cancel a conveyance of
land alleged to have been obtained from her a few weeks before
her death, when, from her condition, she was incapable of understanding the nature and effect of the transaction.

