448

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Per Ctiriam.

382 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. CALIFORNIA.
No. 5, Original. Decided June 23, 1947, and May 17, 1965.-Order
and Decree Entered October 27, 1947.-:-Supplemental
Decree Entered January 31, 1966.
The motion by the United States for the entry of a supplemental
decree is granted and a supplemental decree is ejptered.
Opinions reported: 332 U. S. 19, 381 U. S.139; order and decree
reported: 332 U. S. 804.

Solicitor General Marshall, Louis F. Claiborne and
George S. Swarth for the United States.
o
Thomas C. Lynch, Attorney General of California,
Jay L. Shavelson, Assistant Attorney General, Richard
H. Keatinge, Special Assistant Attorney General, and
Warren J. Abbott and N. Gregory Taylor, Deputy
Attorneys General, for the State of California.
PER CURIAM.

In accordance with the Court's opinion in United
States v. California,381 U. S.139, proposed decrees have
been submitted by the parties. The Court has examined
such proposed decrees and the briefs and papers submitted in support thereof, and enters the following
decree:
Supplemental Decree.
The United States having moved for entry of a supplemental decree herein, and the matter having been referred to the late William H. Davis as Special Master
to hold hearings and recommend answers to certain questions with respect thereto, and the Special Master having
held such hearings and having submitted his report, and
,the issues having been modified by the supplemental
cOnplaint of the United States and the answer of the

UNITED STATES v. CALIFORNIA.
Per Curiam.

448

State of California thereto, and the parties having filed
amended exceptions to the report of the Special Master,
and the Court having received briefs and heard argument
with respect thereto and having by its opinion of May 17,
1965, approved the. recommendations of the Special Master, with modifications, it is ORDERED, ADJUDGED AND
DECREED that the decree heretofore entered in this cause
on October 27, 1947, 332 U. S.804, be, and the same is
hereby, modified to read as follows:
1. As against the State of California and all persons
claiming under it, the subsoil and seabed of the continental shelf, more than three geographical miles seaward from the nearest point or points on the coast line,
at all times pertinent hereto have appertained and now
appertain to the United States and have been and now
are subject to its exclusive jurisdiction, control and power
of' disposition. The State of California has no title
thereto or property interest therein.
2. As used herein, "coast line" means(a) The line of mean lower low water on the mainland, on islands, and on low-tide elevations lying wholly
or partly within three geographical miles from the line
of mean lower low water on the mainland or on an
island; and
(b) The line marking the seaward limit of inland
waters.
The coast line is to be taken as heretofore or hereafter
modified by natural or artificial means, and includes the
outermost permanent harbor works that form an integral
part of the harbor system within the meaning of Article 8
of the Convention on the Territorial Sea and the Contiguous Zone, T. I. A. S. No. 5639.
3. As used herein(a) "Island" means a naturally-formed area of land
surrounded by water, which is above the level of mean
high water;
786-211 0-66-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Per Curiam.

382 U. S.

(b) "Low-tide elevation" means a naturally-formed
area of land surrounded by water at mean lower low
water, which is above the level of mean lower low water
but not above the level of mean high water;
(c) "Mean lower low water" means the average elevation of all the daily lower low tides occurring over a
period of 18.6 years;
(d) "Mean high water" means the average elevation
of all the high tides occurring over a period of 18.6 years;
(e) "Geographical mile" means a distance of 1852
meters (6076.10333 . . .U. S. Survey Feet or approxi-

mately 6076.11549 International Feet).
4. As used herein, "inland waters" means waters landward of the baseline of the territorial sea, which are now
recognized as internal waters of the United States under
the Convention on the Territorial Sea and the Contiguous Zone. The inland waters referred to in paragraph
2 (b) hereof include(a) Any river or stream flowing directly into the sea,
landward of a straight line across its mouth;
(b) Any port, landward of its outermost permanent
harbor works and a straight line across its entrance;
(c) Any "historic bay," as that term is used in paragraph 6 of Article 7 of the Convention, defined essentially
as a bay over which the United States has traditionally
asserted and maintained dominion with the acquiescence
of -foreign nations;
(d) Any other bay (defined as a well-marked coastal
indentation having such penetration, in proportion to the
width of its entrance, as to contain landlocked waters,
and having an area, including islands within the bay, at
least as great as the area of a semicircle whose diameter
equals the length of tfie closing line across the entrance
of the bay, or the sum of such closing lines if the bay
has more than one entrance), landward of a straight line
across its entrance or, if the entrance is more than 24

UNITED STATES v. CALIFORNIA.
448

Per Curiam.

geographical miles wide, landward of a straight line not
over 24 geographical miles long, drawn within the bay
so as to enclose the greatest possible amount of water.
An estuary of a river is treated in the same way as a bay.
5. In drawing a closing line across the entrance of any
body of inland water having pronounced headlands, the
line shall be drawn between the points where the plane
of mean lower low water meets the outermost extension
of the headlands. Where there is no pronounced headland, the line shall be drawn to the point where the line
of mean lower low water on the shore is intersected by
the bisector of the angle formed where a line projecting
the general trend of the 'line of mean lower low water
along the open coast meets a line projecting the general
'trend of the line of mean lower low water along the
tributary waterway.
6. Roadsteads, waters between islands, and waters
between islands and the mainland are not per 8e inland
waters.
•7. The inland waters of the Port of San Pedro are
those enclosed by the breakwater and by straight lines
across openings in the breakwater; but the limits of the
port, east of the eastern end of' the breakwater, are not
determined -by this decree.
8. The inland waters of Crescent City Harbor are those
enclosed within the breakwaters and a straight line from
the outer end of the west breakwater to the southern
extremity of Whaler Island.
9. The inland waters of Monterey Bay are those enclosed by a straight line between Point Pinos and Point
Santa Cruz.
10. The description of the inland waters of the Port
of San Pedro, Crescent City Harbor, and Monterey Bay,
as set forth in paragraphs 7, 8, and 9 hereof, does not
imply that the three-mile limit is to be measured from
the seaward limits of those inland waters in places where

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Per Curiam.

382 U. S.

the three-mile limit is placed farther seaward by the
application of any other provision of this decree.
11. The following are iot historic inland waters, and
do not comprise inland waters except to the extent that
they may be enclosed by lines as hereinabove described
for the enclosure of inland waters other than historic
bays:
(a) Waters between the Santa Barbara or Channel
Islands, or between those islands and the mainland;
(b) Waters adjacent to the coast between Point Conception and Point Hueneme;
(c) Waters adjacent to the coast between Point Ferrin and Point Lasuen (identified as the bluffs at the end
of the Las Bolsas Ridge at Huntington Beach);
(d) Waters adjacent to the coast between Point
Lasuen and the western headland of Newport Bay;
(e) Santa Monica Bay;
(f) Crescent City Bay;
(g) San Luis Obispo Bay.
12. With the exceptions provided by § 5 of the Submerged Lands Act, 67 Stat. 32, 43 U. S. C. § 1313 (1964
ed.), and subject to the powers reserved to the United
States by § 3 (d) and § 6 of said Act, 67 Stat. 31, 32, 43
U. S. C. §§ 1311 (d) and 1314 (1964 ed.), the State of
California isentitled, as against the United States, to
the title to and ownership of the tidelands along itsaoast
(defined as the shore of the mainland and of islands, between the line of mean high water and the line of mean
lower low water) and the submerged lands, minerals,
other natural resources and improvements underlying
the inland waters and the waters of the Pacific Ocean
within three geographical miles seaward from the coast
line and bounded on the north and south by the northern
and southern boundaries of the State of California, including the right and power to manage, administer, lease,
develop and use the said lands and' natural -resources.

UNITED STATES v. CALIFORNIA.
Per Curiam.

448

all in accordance with applicable State law. The United
States is not entitled, as against the State of California,
to any right, title or interest in or to said lands, improvements and natural resources except as provided by § 5
of the Submerged Lands Act.
13. The parties shall submit to the Court for its
approval any stipulation or stipulations that they may
enter into, identifying with greater particularity all or
any part of the boundary line, as defined by this decree,
between the submerged lands of the United States and
the submerged lands of the State of California, or identifying any of the areas reserved to the United States by
§ 5 of the Submerged Lands Act. As to any portion of
such boundary line or of any areas claimed to have been
reserved under § 5 of the Submerged Lands Act as to
which the parties may be unable to agree, either party
may apply to the Court at any time for entry of a further
supplemental decree.
14. The Court retains jurisdiction to entertain such
further proceedings, enter such orders, and issue such
writs as may from time to time be deemed necessary or
advisable to give proper force and effect to this decree
or to effectuate the rights of the parties in the premises.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE CLARK, and MR.
JUSTICE FORTAS took no part in the formulation of this

decree.

