GONDECK v. PAN AMERICAN AIRWAYS.

25

Syllabus.

GONDECK v. PAN AMERICAN WORLD
AIRWAYS, INC., ET AL.
ON MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE SECOND PETITION
FOR REHEARING.

No. 919, October "Term, 1961. Certiorari denied June 11, 1962.-Rehearing denied October 8, 1962.-Rehearing and certiorari
granted and case decided October 18, 1965.
Petitioner's husband while off duty was killed outside an overseas
defense base where he was employed. The Deputy Commissioner,
Bureau of Employees' Compensation, Department of Labor, having found that at the time of the accident decedent was subject
to emergency call and was returning from reasonable recreation,
awarded petitioner death benefits under the Longshoremen's and
Harbor Workers' Compensation Act. The District Court set the
award aside and the Court of Appeals affirmed, finding no benefit
to the employer in decedent's trip and no relation between the
accident and his employment. This Court denied certiorari in
the October 1961 Term and a petition for rehearing the next Term.
Thereafter another Court of Appeals upheld an award arising from
another employee's death in the same accident, relying on O'Leary
v. Brown-Pacific-Maxon, Inc., 340 U. S. 504, which held that the
Deputy Commissioner's award under the Act may be based on his
finding that the obligations and conditions of employment create
the "zone of special danger" out of which the injury or death arose.
The Court of Appeals which decided this case expressed doubt in
a subsequent case that its decision below conformed to BrownPacific-Maxon, and noted that but for a per curiam judgment
(reversed last Term in O'Keeffe v. Smith, Hinchman & Grylls Associates, Inc., 380 U. S. 359) the Gondeck case stood alone. Held:
Since the Court of Appeals misinterpreted the standard in BrownPacific-Maxon and since of those eligible petitioner alone had not
received compensation for the accident here involved, the "interests
of justice would make unfair the strict application of [the Court's]
rules" by which the litigation here would otherwise be final.
United States v. Ohio Power Co., 353 U. S. 98, 99.
Rehearing and certiorari granted; 299 F. 2d 74, reversed.

Arthur Roth for petitioner.
Leo M. Alpert for respondents.

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Per Curiam.

382 U. S.

PER CURIAM.

Petitioner's husband, Frank J. Gondeck, was killed as
a result of a jeep accident on San Salvador Island outside
a defense base at which he was employed. The accident
took place in the evening as Gondeck and four others were
returning from a nearby town. The Deputy Commissioner of the Bureau of Employees' Compensation, United
States Department of Labor, awarded death benefits to
petitioner in accordance with the terms of the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, 44 Stat.
1424, as amended, 33 U. S. C. ยง 901 et seq. (1958 ed.), as
extended by the Defense Base Act, 55 Stat. 622, as
amended, 42 U. S. C. ยง 1651 et seq. (1958 ed.). In support of the award, the Deputy Commissioner found,
among other things, that, although Gondeck had completed his day's work, he was subject to call for emergencies while off duty and was returning from reasonable
recreation when the accident occurred. The District
Court set aside the Deputy Commissioner's order, and the
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit afflirmed. United
States v. Pan American World Airways, Inc., 299 F. 2d
74. The Court of Appeals acknowledged that Gondeck
was subject to call, id., at 75, but found no benefit to the
employer in Gondeck's trip, and "no evidence that furnishes a link by which the activity in which Gondeck was
engaged was related to his employment." Id., at 77.
On June 11, 1962, we denied certiorari. 370 U. S.918.
On- October 8, 1962, we denied a petition for rehearing.
371 U. S.856. We are now apprised, however, of "intervening circumstances of substantial . . . effect,"* justifying application of the established doctrine that "the
-interest in finality of litigation must yield where the
*U. S. Supreme Ct. Rule 58 (2).

GONDECK v. PAN AMERICAN AIRWAYS.
25

27

Per Curiam.

interests of justice would make unfair the strict application of our rules." United States v. Ohio Power Co., 353
U. S. 98, 99. Subsequent to our orders in the present ease,
the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit upheld an
award to the survivors of another employee killed in the
same accident. Pan American World Airways, Inc. v.
O'Hearne, 335 F. 2d 70. In upholding the -award, the
court cited our decision in O'Leary v. Brown-PacificMaxon, Inc., 340 U. S. 504. In a subsequent case the
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit itself expressed
doubt whether its decision in the present case had been
consistent with Brown-Pacific-Maxon. O'Keeffe v. Pan
American World Airways, 338 F. 2d 319, 325. The court
also noted that, "The Gondeck case stands alone, except
for a per curiam opinion." Id., at 325. This Court
reversed that per curiam judgment last Term, O'Keefle v.
Smith, Hinchman & Grylls Associates, Inc., 380 U. S. 359,
so that the present, case now stands completely alone.
In O'Keeffe we made clear that the determinations of
the Deputy Commissioner are subject only to limited
judicial review, and we reaffirmed the Brown-PacificMaxon holding that the Deputy Commissioner need not
find a causal relation between the nature of the victim's
employment and the accident, nor that the victim was
engaged in activity of benefit to the employer at the time
of his injury or death. No more is required than that the
obligations or conditions of employment create the "zone
of special danger" out of which the injury or death arose.
Since the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit misinterpreted the Brown-Pacific-Maxon standard in this case,
and since, of those eligible for compensation from the
accident, this petitioner stands alone in not receiving it,
"the interests of justice would make unfair the strict
application of our rules." United States v. Ohio Power
Co., supra, at 99.

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
CLARK,

J., joining in judgment.

382 U. S.

We therefore grant the motion for leave to file the petition for rehearing, grant the petition for rehearing, vacate
the order denying certiorari, grant the petition for certiorari, and reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals.
It .is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE FORTAS took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE CLARK, joining in the judgment.

I fully agree with my Brother HARLAN "that litigation must at some point come to an end" and "that this
- ecision holds seeds of mischief for the future orderly
administration of justice ....

."

But with Cahill v. New

York, N. H. & H. R. Co., 351 U. S. 183 (1956), on our
books, no other conclusion can be reached.
Up until Cahill I thought that successive petitions for
rehearing would not be received by the Court under its
Rule 58 (4).1 This rule took the place of the old "end
of Term" rule of Bronson v. Schulten, 104 U. S. 410, 415
(1882), abolished by the Congress in 1948, 28 U. S. C.
ยง 452 (1958 ed.). Indeed, I doubted that the Court had
the power to grant a successive petition for rehearing
under a factual situation, as here, where a petition for
certiorari had been denied over three years ago, 370
U. S. 918 (1962); a petition for rehearing had been
denied, 371 U. S. 856 (1962); the mandate had issued
more than three years before; and where petitioner had,
about the same date, cancelled her appeal bond and been
discharged of all liability thereunder. In Cahill, however, the Court through the device'of a "motion to recall
and amend the judgment" permitted a successive peti' "Consecutive petitions for rehearings, and petitions for rehearing
that are out of time under this rule, will not be received."

GONDECK v. PAN AMERICAN AIRWAYS.
25

CLARK,

29

J., joining in judgment.

tion not only to-be received but granted, despite the fact
that the judgment thereby reopened had been previously
paid. 2 This paved the way for the grant of a successive petition for rehearing in United States v. Ohio Power
Co., 353 U. S. 98 (1957), to make its judgment conform
with this Court's decision that same Term in United
States v. Allen-Bradley Co., 352 U. S. 306 (1957), a
companion case of Ohio Power in the Court of Claims.
The vice, of course, is the granting of successive petitions for rehearing in violation of Rule 58 (4), which was
done for the first time in Cahill. It makes no difference that the rejection of finality be to correct alleged
errors of our own or those below. Nor does it matter that
the errors be corrected in the same Term, as in Cahill,
or four Terms later, as here. In each instance the action
violates Rule 58 (4) and that is the basis of my position.
I, too, as my Brother HARLAN said in Ohio Power, "can
think of nothing more unsettling to lawyers and litigants,
and more disturbing to their confidence in the evenhandedness of the Court's processes, than to be left in ...
uncertainty.., as to when their cases may be considered
finally closed in this Court." At p. 111 (dissenting opinion). However, Cahill opened up this practice. It may
be that Ohio Power and the present case are more objectionable on their facts, but they merely condone Cahill's
original vice. Until we can gain the vote of the majority
to the contrary we are stuck with the practice. The outlook for this appears dim. We can only hope that this
rule of "no finality," which the Court varnishes with the
charms of reason, will be sparingly used, or overruled by
Congress, as was the "end of Term" rule. I, therefore,
join in the judgment of the Court.

I MR.JUSTICE BLACK,
DOUGLAS

joined by
and myself, dissented.

THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
HmuAN, J., dissenting.

382 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE HARLN, dissenting.

The result reached in this case has been achieved at the
expense of the sound legal principle that litigation must
at some point come to an end.
I can find nothing in the train of events on which the
Court relies in overturning this more than three-yearold final judgment that justifies bringing into play the
dubious doctrine of United States v. Ohio Power Co., 353
U. S. 98, a case which was decided by a closely divided
vote of less than a full bench, which deviated from longestablished practices of this Court,' and which, so far as
I can find, has had no sequel in subsequent decisions of
the Court."
The judgment against this petitioner became final as
long ago as June 11, 1962. 370 U. S. 918. Tha Court
refused to reconsider it four months later when it denied
rehearing on October 8, 1962. 371 U. S. 856. When
some two years later, July 13, 1964, the Court of Appeals
for the Fourth Circuit upheld a compensation award with
respect to a co-employee of Gondeck killed in the same
accident, PanAmerican World Airways, Inc. v. O'Hearne,
335 F. 2d 70, petitioner did not even seek to file another
petition for rehearing here. A few months later the Fifth
Circuit might be thought to have indicated some doubt
about its earlier decision in the Gondeck case, O'Keeffe v.
Pan American World Airways, Inc., 338 F. 2d 319, 325,
1

The vote was 4 to 3, MR. JUSTIcE. BRE NAN and Mr. Justice
Whittaker, since retired, not participating. 353 U. S., at 99.
2 See dissenting opinion of HALAN, J., 353 U. S., at 99.
8 My Brother CLARK'S citation of Cahill v. New York, N. H. &
H. R. Co., 351 U. S. 183, ante, p. 28, for the proposition that this petition for rehearing must be granted is inapposite. Cahill was an FELA

-in which this Court reversed summarily a judgment of the Court.
Appeals overturning a district court judgment for the plaintiff,
.0 U. S. 898. Later that same Torpn, after a petition for rehearing
had been denied, 350 U. S., 94/ tli.eCPurt was persuaded on "a

GONDECK v. PAN AMERICAN AIRWAYS. 31
25

HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

but again no attempt was made to file a further petition
for rehearing here in Gondeck.
It was this Court's decision of ,last Term in O'Keeffe
v. Smith, Hinchman & GryLs Associates, Inc., 380 U. S.

359, which itself was a debatable innovation in this area
of the law,' that triggered the undoing of this judgment of four Terms ago. It should be noted that the
subject matter in O'Keeffe v. Pan American World Airways, Inc., was an entirely different accident from the
one in which petitioner's decedent was involved.
.This, then, is hardly one of those rare cases in which
"'the interest in finality of litigation must yield'"
because "'the interests of justice would make unfair the
strict application of our rules,' "ante, pp. 26-27. On the
contrary, the situation is one in which the prevailing
party in this litigation had every reason to count on the
its favor remaining firm. Believing -that
judgment in'
this decision holds seeds of mischief for the future orderly
administration of justice, I respectfully dissent.

motion to recall and amend the judgment" that its mandate, which
simply reinstated the District Court's judgment, was incorrect and
that the case should properly have been remanded to the Court of
Appeals for further proceedings. It is difficult for me to see how
the correction during the same Term of our own error in Cahill can
be thought to compel or justify a general "rule of 'no finality'" (as
my Brother CLARK puts it, ante, p. 29) which requires the granting of
a second petition for rehearing three years after the first one was
denied in a case which this Court never heard.
4 The case was decided without argument by a substantially divided
Court, 380 U. S. 359. See dissenting opinion of HARLAN, J., joined
by CLARK and WHITE, JJ., 380 U. S., at 365. See also separate
opinion of DOUGLAS, J., 380 U. S., at 371.

