OCTOBER TERM, 1965.

34

Per Curiam.

382 U. s.

FIRST SECURITY NATIONAL BANK & TRUST CO.
OF LEXINGTON ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 141.

Decided October 18, 1965.

This Court held that the bank merger resulting in appellant bank's
formation violated the Sherman Act and remanded the case to the
District Court "for further proceedings in conformity with the
opinion of this Court." (376 U. S. 665.) After several postponements.of the date set by the District Court for reporting progress
"in complying with the mandate of the Supreme Court," the
parties presented a proposed interlocutory decree providing for
submission of a detailed divestiture plan in six months. The Dis-

trict Court thereupon held appellant bank and its officers in contempt for failure to comply with this Court's mandate. Held:
Since divestiture was not ordered within any specific period,
appellants did not violate this Court's judgment.

Reversed.

PaulA. Porter and Victor H. Kramer for appellants.
Solicitor General Cox, Assistant Attorney General
Turner and Lionel Kestenbaum for the United States.
PER CURIAM.

In United States v. FirstNational Bank, 376 U. S. 665,
this Court held that the merger of First National Bank
and Trust Co. of Lexington, Kentucky, with Seourity
Trust Co. of Lexington to form First Security National
Bank and Trust Co. violated ยง 1 of the Sherman Act, 26
Stat. 209, 15 U. S. C. ยง 1. The Court's judgment remanded the case to the District Court "for further proceedings in conformity with the opinion of this Court."
Thereafter, on July 1, 1964, the District Court ordered
the parties "to report to the court the progress made in
complying with the judgment" of the Supreme Court.
On application of the parties, the reporting date was
thrice postponed to permit negotiations between First
Security and the Government concerning an appropriate

FIRST SECURITY NAT. BANK v. U. S.
34

35

Per Curiam.

plan of divestiture. When, on the final date for reporting, February 16, 1965, the parties jointly presented only
a proposed interlocutory decree providing that the desix
tailed plan for divestiture would be submitted within
execumonths, the District Court held First Security, its
there
Although
tive officers and directors in contempt.
dissatiswas
is some indication thatthe District Court
fied With the compliance of the bank with the District
Court's order of July 1, 1964, the contempt judgment
a
itself was entered because the delay in submitting
with
final plan of divestiture was a failure "to comply
court
The
."
.
.
Court
the mandate of the Supreme
imposed a fine of $100 per day until the contempt had
the
been purged by "full compliance with the mandate of
Supreme Court."
The District Judge's interpretation of this Court's judgment was erroneous. We remanded the case for further
this
proceedings in Athe District Court consistent with
Court's opinion. Neither the opinion nor the judgment of
this Court expressly dealt with the matter of remedy and
neither ordered divestiture within any particular period
Gas
of time. Compare United States v. El Paso Natural
Co., 376 U. S. 651, 662 (decided the same day as the prior
appeal in this case and directing the District Court to
order divestiture without delay). No order of divestiture was entered in the District Court until Maich 18,
1965, a month after the bank-had been held in contempt.
The District Court has the authority to require obedience
and to punish disobedience of its lawful orders and decrees, 18 U. S. C. ยง 401, but this record reveals nothing
the bank did or failed to do which violated the judgment of this Court. The judgment holding the bank, its
executive officers and directors in contempt is
Reversed.
MR. JusTICE FoRTAs took no part m. the consideration
or decision of this case.

