OCTOBER TERM, 1992
Per Curiam

UNITED STATES v. GREEN
CERTIORARI TO THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA COURT OF
APPEALS
No. 91-1521.

Argued November 30, 1992-Decided April 5, 1993

Order granting certiorari vacated, and certiorari dismissed.
below: 592 A. 2d 985.

Reported

Deputy Solicitor General Roberts argued the cause for
the United States. On the briefs were Solicitor General
Starr, Assistant Attorney General Mueller, Deputy Solicitor General Bryson, Robert A. Long, Jr., and Nina
Goodman.
Joseph R. Conte argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondent.*
PER CURIAM.

The Court is advised that the respondent died in Washington, D. C., on March 24, 1993. The Court's order granting
the writ of certiorari, see 504 U. S. 908 (1992), therefore is
vacated, and the petition for certiorari is dismissed. See
Mintzes v. Buchanon, 471 U. S. 154 (1985).
It is so ordered.

*John Payton, Charles L. Reischel, Lutz Alexander Prager, and Edward E. Schwab filed a brief for the District of Columbia as amicus curiae
urging reversal.
David A Reiser filed a brief for the Public Defender Service et al. as
amici curiae urging affirmance.
Thomas J. Charron, Bernard J Farber, Fred E. Inbau, Wayne W
Schmidt, and James P. Manak filed a brief for Americans for Effective
Law Enforcement, Inc., et al. as amici curiae.

OCTOBER TERM, 1992
Syllabus

NEWARK MORNING LEDGER CO., AS SUCCESSOR TO
THE HERALD CO. v. UNITED STATES
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE THIRD CIRCUIT
No. 91-1135. Argued November 10, 1992-Decided April 20, 1993
Petitioner newspaper publisher is the successor to The Herald Company.
When, in 1976, Herald purchased substantially all the outstanding
shares of Booth Newspapers, Inc., it allocated its adjusted income tax
basis in the Booth shares among the assets it acquired in its merger
with Booth. Among other things, it allocated $67.8 million to an intangible asset denominated "paid subscribers," a figure that was petitioner's estimate of future profits to be derived from identified subscribers
to Booth's eight newspapers on the date of merger. On its federal income tax returns for 1977-1980, Herald claimed depreciation deductions
for the $67.8 million, which were disallowed by the Internal Revenue
Service (IRS) on the ground that the concept of "paid subscribers" was
indistinguishable from goodwill and, therefore, was nondepreciable.
Herald paid the taxes, and petitioner filed refund claims and ultimately
brought suit in the District Court to recover taxes and interest paid.
At trial, the Government did not contest petitioner's expert evidence on
the methodology used to calculate its figure and stipulated to the useful
life of "paid subscribers" for each newspaper. Instead, it estimated the
asset's value at $3 million, the cost of generating new subscriptions, and
its principal argument remained that the asset was indistinguishable
from goodwill. The court ruled in petitioner's favor, finding that the
asset was not self-regenerating-i. e., it had a limited useful life, the
duration of which could be calculated with reasonable accuracy-that
petitioner properly calculated its value, and that it was separate and
distinct from goodwill. The Court of Appeals reversed, holding that
even though the asset may have a limited useful life that can be ascertained with reasonable accuracy, its value is not separate and distinct
from goodwill.
Held
1. A taxpayer able to prove that a particular asset can be valued and
that it has a limited useful life may depreciate its value over its useful
life regardless of how much the asset appears to reflect the expectancy
of continued patronage. Pp. 553-566.

