AMENDMENTS TO
FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
The following amendments to the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure
were prescribed by the Supreme Court of the United States on April 22,
1993, pursuant to 28 U. S. C. § 2072, and were reported to Congress by
THE CHIEF JUSTICE on the same date. For the letter of transmittal, see
post, p. 1162. The Judicial Conference report referred to in that letter is
not reproduced herein.
Note that under 28 U. S. C. § 2074, such amendments shall take effect no
earlier than December 1 of the year in which they are transmitted to
Congress unless otherwise provided by law.
For earlier publication of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, and
the amendments thereto, see 327 U. S. 821, 335 U. S. 917, 949, 346 U. S.
941, 350 U. S. 1017, 383 U. S. 1087, 389 U. S. 1125, 401 U. S. 1025, 406 U. S.
979, 415 U. S. 1056, 416 U. S. 1001, 419 U. S. 1136, 425 U. S. 1157, 441 U. S.
985, 456 U. S. 1021, 461 U. S. 1117, 471 U. S. 1167, 480 U. S. 1041, 485 U. S.
1057, 490 U. S. 1135, 495 U. S. 967, and 500 U. S. 991.

LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
WASHINGTON, D. C.

APRIL

22, 1993

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress Assembled:
By direction of the Supreme Court of the United States,
I have the honor to submit to the Congress amendments to
the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure and an amendment
to Rule 8 of the Rules Governing Section 2255 Proceedings
that have been adopted by the Supreme Court pursuant to
Section 2072 of Title 28, United States Code. While the
Court is satisfied that the required procedures have been
observed, this transmittal does not necessarily indicate that
the Court itself would have proposed these amendments in
the form submitted.
Accompanying these rules are excerpts from the report of
the Judicial Conference of the United States containing the
Advisory Committee Notes submitted to the Court for its
consideration pursuant to Section 331 of Title 28, United
States Code.
Sincerely,
(Signed) WILLIAM H. REHNQUIST
Chief Justice of the United States

1162

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
APRIL 22, 1993
ORDERED:

1. That the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure for the
United States District Courts be, and they hereby are,
amended by including therein amendments to Criminal
Rules 1, 3, 4, 5, 5.1, 6, 9, 12, 16, 17, 26.2, 32, 32.1, 40, 41, 44,
46, 49, 50, 54, 55, 57, and 58, and new Rule 26.3, and an
amendment to Rule 8 of the Rules Governing Section 2255
Proceedings.
[See infra, pp. 1165-1186.]
2. That the foregoing amendments to the Federal Rules of
Criminal Procedure shall take effect on December 1, 1993,
and shall govern all proceedings in criminal cases thereafter
commenced and, insofar as just and practicable, all proceedings in criminal cases then pending.
3. That THE CHIEF JUSTICE be, and he hereby is, authorized to transmit to the Congress the foregoing amendments
to the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2072 of Title 28, United
States Code.

1163

AMENDMENTS TO THE FEDERAL RULES
OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

Rule 1. Scope.
These rules govern the procedure in all criminal proceedings in the courts of the United States, as provided in Rule
54(a); and, whenever specifically provided in one of the rules,
to preliminary, supplementary, and special. proceedings before United States magistrate judges and at proceedings before state and local judicial officers.
Rule 3. The complaint.
The complaint is a written statement of the essential facts
constituting the offense charged. It shall be made upon
oath before a magistrate judge.
Rule 4. Arrest warrant or summons upon complaint.
(c) Form.
(1) Warrant.-The warrant shall be signed by the
magistrate judge and shall contain the name of the defendant or, if the defendant's name is unknown, any
name or description by which the defendant can be identified with reasonable certainty. It shall describe the
offense charged in the complaint. It shall command
that the defendant be arrested and brought before the
nearest available magistrate judge.
(d) Execution or service; and return.
(4) Return.-The officer executing a warrant shall
make return thereof to the magistrate judge or other
officer before whom the defendant is brought pursuant
1165

1166

RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

to Rule 5. At the request of the attorney for the government any unexecuted warrant shall be returned to
and canceled by the magistrate judge by whom it was
issued. On or before the return day the person to
whom a summons was delivered for service shall make
return thereof to the magistrate judge before whom the
summons is returnable. At the request of the attorney
for the government made at any time while the complaint is pending, a warrant returned unexecuted and
not canceled or summons returned unserved or a duplicate thereof may be delivered by the magistrate judge
to the marshal or other authorized person for execution
or service.
Rule 5. Initial appearance before the magistratejudge.
(a) In general.-An officer making an arrest under a warrant issued upon a complaint or any person making an arrest
without a warrant shall take the arrested person without
unnecessary delay before the nearest available federal magistrate judge or, in the event that a federal magistrate judge
is not reasonably available, before a state or local judicial
officer authorized by 18 U. S. C. § 3041. If a person arrested
without a warrant is brought before a magistrate judge, a
complaint shall be filed forthwith which shall comply with
the requirements of Rule 4(a) with respect to the showing of
probable cause. When a person, arrested with or without
a warrant or given a summons, appears initially before the
magistrate judge, the magistrate judge shall proceed in accordance with the applicable subdivisions of this rule.
(b) Misdemeanorsand other petty offenses.-If the charge
against the defendant is a misdemeanor or other petty offense triable by a United States magistrate judge under 18
U. S. C. §3401, the magistrate judge shall proceed in accordance with Rule 58.
(c) Offenses not triable by the United States magistrate
judge.-If the charge against the defendant is not triable by
the United States magistrate judge, the defendant shall not
be called upon to plead. The magistrate judge shall inform

RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

the defendant of the complaint against the defendant and of
any affidavit filed therewith, of the defendant's right to retain counsel or to request the assignment of counsel if the
defendant is unable to obtain counsel, and of the general circumstances under which the defendant may secure pretrial
release. The magistrate judge shall inform the defendant
that the defendant is not required to make a statement and
that any statement made by the defendant may be used
against the defendant. The magistrate judge shall also inform the defendant of the right to a preliminary examination.
The magistrate judge shall allow the defendant reasonable
time and opportunity to consult counsel and shall detain or
conditionally release the defendant as provided by statute or
in these rules.
A defendant is entitled to a preliminary examination, unless waived, when charged with any offense, other than a
petty offense, which is to be tried by a judge of the district
court. If the defendant waives preliminary examination,
the magistrate judge shall forthwith hold the defendant to
answer in the district court. If the defendant does not
waive the preliminary examination, the magistrate judge
shall schedule a preliminary examination. Such examination shall be held within a reasonable time but in any event
not later than 10 days following the initial appearance if the
defendant is in custody and no later than 20 days if the defendant is not in custody, provided, however, that the preliminary examination shall not be held if the defendant is indicted or if an information against the defendant is filed in
district court before the date set for the preliminary examination. With the consent of the defendant and upon a showing of good cause, taking into account the public interest in
the prompt disposition of criminal cases, time limits specified
in this subdivision may be extended one or more times by a
federal magistrate judge. In the absence of such consent by
the defendant, time limits may be extended by a judge of
the United States only upon a showing that extraordinary
circumstances exist and that delay is indispensable to the
interests of justice.

RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

Rule 5.1. Preliminaryexamination.
(a) Probable cause finding.-If from the evidence it appears that there is probable cause to believe that an offense
has been committed and that the defendant committed it, the
federal magistrate judge shall forthwith hold the defendant
to answer in district court. The finding of probable cause
may be based upon hearsay evidence in whole or in part.
The defendant may cross-examine adverse witnesses and
may introduce evidence. Objections to evidence on the
ground that it was acquired by unlawful means are not properly made at the preliminary examination. Motions to suppress must be made to the trial court as provided in Rule 12.
(b) Discharge of defendant.-If from the evidence it appears that there is no probable cause to believe that an offense has been committed or that the defendant committed
it, the federal magistrate judge shall dismiss the complaint
and discharge the defendant. The discharge of the defendant shall not preclude the government from instituting a subsequent prosecution for the same offense.
(c) Records.-After concluding the proceeding the federal
magistrate judge shall transmit forthwith to the clerk of the
district court all papers in the proceeding. The magistrate
judge shall promptly make or cause to be made a record or
summary of such proceeding.
(1) On timely application to a federal magistrate
judge, the attorney for a defendant in a criminal case
may be given the opportunity to have the recording of
the hearing on preliminary examination made available
to that attorney in connection with any further hearing
or preparation for trial. The court may, by local rule,
appoint the place for and define the conditions under
which such opportunity may be afforded counsel.
(2) On application of a defendant addressed to the
court or any judge thereof, an order may issue that the
federal magistrate judge make available a copy of the
transcript, or of a portion thereof, to defense counsel.
Such order shall provide for prepayment of costs of such
transcript by the defendant unless the defendant makes

RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

a sufficient affidavit that the defendant is unable to pay
or to give security therefor, in which case the expense
shall be paid by the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts from available appropriated funds. Counsel for the government may move
also that a copy of the transcript, in whole or in part, be
made available to it, for good cause shown, and an order
may be entered granting such motion in whole or in
part, on appropriate terms, except that the government
need not prepay costs nor furnish security therefor.
Rule 6. The grand jury.
(e) Recording and disclosure of proceedings.
(4) Sealed indictments.-The federal magistrate
judge to whom an indictment is returned may direct
that the indictment be kept secret until the defendant is
in custody or has been released pending trial. Thereupon the clerk shall seal the indictment and no person
shall disclose the return of the indictment except when
necessary for the issuance and execution of a warrant
or summons.
(f) Finding and return of indictment.-An indictment
may be found only upon the concurrence of 12 or more jurors.
The indictment shall be returned by the grand jury to a federal magistrate judge in open court. If a complaint or information is pending against the defendant and 12 jurors do not
concur in finding an indictment, the foreperson shall so report to a federal magistrate judge in writing forthwith.
Rule 9. Warrant or summons upon indictment or
information.
(a) Issuance.-Upon the request of the attorney for the
government the court shall issue a warrant for each defendant named in an information supported by a showing of prob-

1170

RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

able cause under oath as is required by Rule 4(a), or in an
indictment. Upon the request of the attorney for the government a summons instead of a warrant shall issue. If no
request is made, the court may issue either a warrant or a
summons in its discretion. More than one warrant or summons may issue for the same defendant. The clerk shall deliver the warrant or summons to the marshal or other person
authorized by law to execute or serve it. If a defendant
fails to appear in response to the summons, a warrant shall
issue. When a defendant arrested with a warrant or given
a summons appears initially before a magistrate judge, the
magistrate judge shall proceed in accordance with the applicable subdivisions of Rule 5.
(b) Form.
(1) Warrant.-The form of the warrant shall be as
provided in Rule 4(c)(1) except that it shall be signed by
the clerk, it shall describe the offense charged in the
indictment or information and it shall command that the
defendant be arrested and brought before the nearest
available magistrate judge. The amount of bail may be
fixed by the court and endorsed on the warrant.
(2) Summons.-The summons shall be in the same
form as the warrant except that it shall summon the
defendant to appear before a magistrate judge at a
stated time and place.
(c) Execution or service; and return.
(1) Execution or service.-The warrant shall be executed or the summons served as provided in Rule 4(d)(1),
(2) and (3). A summons to a corporation shall be served
by delivering a copy to an officer or to a managing or
general agent or to any other agent authorized by appointment or by law to receive service of process and, if
the agent is one authorized by statute to receive service
and the statute so requires, by also mailing a copy to
the corporation's last known address within the district
or at its principal place of business elsewhere in the
United States. The officer executing the warrant shall

RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

bring the arrested person without unnecessary delay before the nearest available federal magistrate judge or,
in the event that a federal magistrate judge is not reasonably available, before a state or local judicial officer
authorized by 18 U. S. C. § 3041.
(2) Return.-The officer executing a warrant shall
make return thereof to the magistrate judge or other
officer before whom the defendant is brought. At the
request of the attorney for the government any unexecuted warrant shall be returned and cancelled. On or
before the return day the person to whom a summons
was delivered for service shall make return thereof. At
the request of the attorney for the government made at
any time while the indictment or information is pending,
a warrant returned unexecuted and not cancelled or a
summons returned unserved or a duplicate thereof may
be delivered by the clerk to the marshal or other authorized person for execution or service.
Rule 12. Pleadings and motions before trial; defenses and
objections.
(i) Production of statements at suppression hearing.Rule 26.2 applies at a hearing on a motion to suppress evidence under subdivision (b)(3) of this rule. For purposes of
this subdivision, a law enforcement officer is deemed a government witness.
Rule 16. Discovery and inspection.
(a) Governmental disclosure of evidence.
(1) Information subject to disclosure.
(E) Expert witnesses.-At the defendant's request, the government shall disclose to the defendant a written summary of testimony the government intends to use under Rules 702, 703, or 705 of
the Federal Rules of Evidence during its case in

RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

chief at trial. This summary must describe the
witnesses' opinions, the bases and the reasons
therefor, and the witnesses' qualifications.
(2) Information not subject to disclosure.-Exceptas
provided in paragraphs (A), (B), (D), and (E) of subdivision (a)(1), this rule does not authorize the discovery or
inspection of reports, memoranda, or other internal government documents made by the attorney for the government or other government agents in connection with
the investigation or prosecution of the case. Nor does
the rule authorize the discovery or inspection of statements made by government witnesses or prospective
government witnesses except as provided in 18 U. S. C.
§3500.
(b) The defendant's disclosure of evidence.
(1) Information subject to disclosure.
(C) Expert witnesses.-If the defendant requests
disclosure under subdivision (a)(1)(E) of this rule
and the government complies, the defendant, at the
government's request, must disclose to the government a written summary of testimony the defendant
intends to use under Rules 702, 703 and 705 of the
Federal Rules of Evidence as evidence at trial.
This summary must describe the opinions of the
witnesses, the bases and reasons therefor, and the
witnesses' qualifications.
Rule 17. Subpoena.
(a) For attendance of witnesses; form; issuance.-A subpoena shall be issued by the clerk under the seal of the court.
It shall state the name of the court and the title, if any, of
the proceeding, and shall command each person to whom it is
directed to attend and give testimony at the time and place
specified therein. The clerk shall issue a subpoena, signed

RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

and sealed but otherwise in blank to a party requesting it,
who shall fill in the blanks before it is served. A subpoena
shall be issued by a United States magistrate judge in a proceeding before that magistrate judge, but it need not be
under the seal of the court.
(g) Contempt.-Failure by any person without adequate
excuse to obey a subpoena served upon that person may be
deemed a contempt of the court from which the subpoena
issued or of the court for the district in which it was issued
if it was issued by a United States magistrate judge.
Rule 26.2. Productionof witness statements.
(c) Production of excised statement.-If the other party
claims that the statement contains privileged information or
matter that does not relate to the subject matter concerning
which the witness has testified, the court shall order that it
be delivered to the court in camera. Upon inspection, the
court shall excise the portions of the statement that are privileged or that do not relate to the subject matter concerning
which the witness has testified, and shall order that the
statement, with such material excised, be delivered to the
moving party. Any portion of the statement that is withheld from the defendant over the defendant's objection must
be preserved by the attorney for the government, and, if
the defendant appeals a conviction, must be made available
to the appellate court for the purpose of determining the
correctness of the decision to excise the portion of the
statement.
(d) Recess for examination of statement.-Upon delivery
of the statement to the moving party, the court, upon application of that party, may recess the proceedings so that counsel may examine the statement and prepare to use it in the
proceedings.

1174

RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

(g) Scope of rule.-This rule applies at a suppression
hearing conducted under Rule 12, at trial under this rule,
and to the extent specified:
(1) in Rule 32(f) at sentencing;
(2) in Rule 32.1(c) at a hearing to revoke or modify
probation or supervised release;
(3) in Rule 46(i) at a detention hearing; and
(4) in Rule 8 of the Rules Governing Proceedings
under 28 U. S. C. § 2255.
Rule 26.3. Mistrial.
Before ordering a mistrial, the court shall provide an opportunity for the government and for each defendant to comment on the propriety of the order, including whether each
party consents or objects to a mistrial, and to suggest any
alternatives.
Rule 32. Sentence and judgment.
(e) Productionof statements at sentencing hearing.
(1) In general.-Rule 26.2 (a)-(d), and (f) applies at a
sentencing hearing under this rule.
(2) Sanctionsfor failure to produce statement.-If a
party elects not to comply with an order under Rule
26.2(a) to deliver a statement to the moving party, the
court may not consider the testimony of a witness whose
statement is withheld.
Rule 32.1. Revocation or modificationof probationor supervised release.
(c) Productionof statements.
(1) In general.-Rule 26.2(a)-(d) and (f) applies at any
hearing under this rule.
(2) Sanctions for failure to produce statement.-If a
party elects not to comply with an order under Rule
26.2(a) to deliver a statement to the moving party, the

RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

1175

court may not consider the testimony of a witness whose
statement is withheld.
Rule 40. Commitment to another district.
(a) Appearance before federal magistrate judge.-If a
person is arrested in a district other than that in which the
offense is alleged to have been committed, that person must
be taken without unnecessary delay before the nearest available federal magistrate judge. Preliminary proceedings
concerning the defendant must be conducted in accordance
with Rules 5 and 5.1, except that if no preliminary examination is held because an indictment has been returned or an
information filed or because the defendant elects to have the
preliminary examination conducted in the district in which
the prosecution is pending, the person shall be held to answer upon a finding that such person is the person named in
the indictment, information or warrant. If held to answer,
the defendant shall be held to answer in the district court in
which the prosecution is pending-provided that a warrant
is issued in that district if the arrest was made without a
warrant-upon production of the warrant or a certified copy
thereof. The warrant or certified copy may be produced by
facsimile transmission.
(b) Statement by federal magistratejudge.-In addition to
the statements required by Rule 5, the federal magistrate
judge shall inform the defendant of the provisions of Rule 20.
(d) Arrest of probationer or supervised releasee.-If a
person is arrested for a violation of probation or supervised
release in a district other than the district having jurisdiction, such person must be taken without unnecessary delay
before the nearest available federal magistrate judge. The
federal magistrate judge shall:
(1) Proceed under Rule 32.1 if jurisdiction over the
person is transferred to that district;
(2) Hold a prompt preliminary hearing if the alleged
violation occurred in that district, and either (i) hold the
person to answer in the district court of the district hav-

1176

RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

ing jurisdiction or (ii) dismiss the proceedings and so
notify that court; or
(3) Otherwise order the person held to answer in the
district court of the district having jurisdiction upon
production of certified copies of the judgment, the warrant, and the application for the warrant, and upon a
finding that the person before the magistrate judge is
the person named in the warrant.
(e) Arrest for failure to appear.-If a person is arrested
on a warrant in a district other than that in which the warrant was issued, and the warrant was issued because of the
failure of the person named therein to appear as required
pursuant to a subpoena or the terms of that person's release,
the person arrested must be taken without unnecessary
delay before the nearest available federal magistrate judge.
Upon production of the warrant or a certified copy thereof
and upon a finding that the person before the magistrate
judge is the person named in the warrant, the federal magistrate judge shall hold the person to answer in the district in
which the warrant was issued.
(f) Release or detention.-If a person was previously detained or conditionally released, pursuant to chapter 207 of
title 18, United States Code, in another district where a warrant, information, or indictment issued, the federal magistrate judge shall take into account the decision previously
made and the reasons set forth therefor, if any, but will not
be bound by that decision. If the federal magistrate judge
amends the release or detention decision or alters the conditions of release, the magistrate judge shall set forth the reasons therefor in writing.
Rule 41. Search and seizure.
(a) Authority to issue warrant.-Upon the request of a
federal law enforcement officer or an attorney for the government, a search warrant authorized by this rule may be
issued (1) by a federal magistrate judge, or a state court of
record within the federal district, for a search of property or
for a person within the district and (2) by a federal magis-

RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

trate judge for a search of property or for a person either
within or outside the district if the property or person is
within the district when the warrant is sought but might
move outside the district before the warrant is executed.
(c) Issuance and contents.
(1) Warrant upon affidavit.-A warrant other than a
warrant upon oral testimony under paragraph (2) of this
subdivision shall issue only on an affidavit or affidavits
sworn to before the federal magistrate judge or state
judge and establishing the grounds for issuing the warrant. If the federal magistrate judge or state judge is
satisfied that grounds for the application exist or that
there is probable cause to believe that they exist, that
magistrate judge or state judge shall issue a warrant
identifying the property or person to be seized and naming or describing the person or place to be searched.
The finding of probable cause may be based upon hearsay evidence in whole or in part. Before ruling on a
request for a warrant the federal magistrate judge or
state judge may require the affiant to appear personally
and may examine under oath the affiant and any witnesses the affiant may produce, provided that such proceeding shall be taken down by a court reporter or recording equipment and made part of the affidavit. The
warrant shall be directed to a civil officer of the United
States authorized to enforce or assist in enforcing any
law thereof or to a person so authorized by the President
of the United States. It shall command the officer to
search, within a specified period of time not to exceed
10 days, the person or place named for the property or
person specified. The warrant shall be served in the
daytime, unless the issuing authority, by appropriate
provision in the warrant, and for reasonable cause
shown, authorizes its execution at times other than daytime. It. shall designate a federal magistrate judge to
whom it shall be returned.

RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

(2) Warrant upon oral testimony.
(A) General rule.-If the circumstances make it
reasonable to dispense, in whole or in part, with a
written affidavit, a Federal magistrate judge may
issue a warrant based upon sworn testimony communicated by telephone or other appropriate means,
including facsimile transmission.
(B) Application.-The person who is requesting
the warrant shall prepare a document to be known
as a duplicate original warrant and shall read such
duplicate original warrant, verbatim, to the Federal
magistrate judge. The Federal magistrate judge
shall enter, verbatim, what is so read to such magistrate judge on a document to be known as the original warrant. The Federal magistrate judge may
direct that the warrant be modified.
(C) Issuance.-If the Federal magistrate judge is
satisfied that the circumstances are such as to make
it reasonable to dispense with a written affidavit
and that grounds for the application exist or that
there is probable cause to believe that they exist,
the Federal magistrate judge shall order the issuance of a warrant by directing the person requesting the warrant to sign the Federal magistrate
judge's name on the duplicate original warrant.
The Federal magistrate judge shall immediately
sign the original warrant and enter on the face of
the original warrant the exact time when the warrant was ordered to be issued. The finding of probable cause for a warrant upon oral testimony may
be based on the same kind of evidence as is sufficient for a warrant upon affidavit.
(D) Recording and certification of testimony.When a caller informs the Federal magistrate judge
that the purpose of the call is to request a warrant,
the Federal magistrate judge shall immediately
place under oath each person whose testimony
forms a basis of the application and each person

RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

1179

applying for that warrant. If a voice recording device is available, the Federal magistrate judge shall
record by means of such device all of the call after
the caller informs the Federal magistrate judge that
the purpose of the call is to request a warrant. Otherwise a stenographic or longhand verbatim record
shall be made. If a voice recording device is used
or a stenographic record made, the Federal magistrate judge shall have the record transcribed, shall
certify the accuracy of the transcription, and shall
file a copy of the original record and the transcription with the court. If a longhand verbatim record
is made, the Federal magistrate judge shall file a
signed copy with the court.
(d) Execution and return with inventory.-The officer
taking property under the warrant shall give to the person
from whom or from whose premises the property was taken
a copy of the warrant and a receipt for the property taken
or shall leave the copy and receipt at the place from which
the property was taken. The return shall be made promptly
and shall be accompanied by a written inventory of any property taken. The inventory shall be made in the presence of
the applicant for the warrant and the person from whose
possession or premises the property was taken, if they are
present, or in the presence of at least one credible person
other than the applicant for the warrant or the person from
whose possession or premises the property was taken, and
shall be verified by the officer. The federal magistrate
judge shall upon request deliver a copy of the inventory to
the person from whom or from whose premises the property
was taken and to the applicant for the warrant.
(g) Return of papers to clerk.-The federal magistrate
judge before whom the warrant is returned shall attach to
the warrant a copy of the return, inventory and all other
papers in connection therewith and shall file them with the

1180

RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

clerk of the district court for the district in which the property was seized.
Rule 44. Right to and assignment of counsel.
(a) Right to assigned counsel.-Every defendant who is
unable to obtain counsel shall be entitled to have counsel
assigned to represent that defendant at every stage of the
proceedings from initial appearance before the federal magistrate judge or the court through appeal, unless the defendant waives such appointment.
Rule 46. Release from custody.
(i) Production of statements.
(1) In general.-Rule 26.2(a)-(d) and (f) applies at a
detention hearing held under 18 U. S. C. §3144, unless
the court, for good cause shown, rules otherwise in a
particular case.
(2) Sanctions for failure to produce statement.-If a
party elects not to comply with an order under Rule
26.2(a) to deliver a statement to the moving party, at
the detention hearing the court may not consider the
testimony of a witness whose statement is withheld.
Rule 49. Service and filing of papers.
(e) Filing of dangerous offender notice.-A filing with the
court pursuant to 18 U. S. C. §3575(a) or 21 U. S. C. §849(a)
shall be made by filing the notice with the clerk of the court.
The clerk shall transmit the notice to the chief judge or, if
the chief judge is the presiding judge in the case, to another
judge or United States magistrate judge in the district, except that in a district having a single judge and no United
States magistrate judge, the clerk shall transmit the notice
to the court only after the time for disclosure specified in the
aforementioned statutes and shall seal the notice as permitted by local rule.

RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

1181

Rule 50. Calendars;plans for prompt disposition.
(b) Plans for achieving prompt disposition of criminal
cases.-To minimize undue delay and to further the prompt
disposition of criminal cases, each district court shall conduct
a continuing study of the administration of criminal justice
in the district court and before United States magistrate
judges of the district and shall prepare plans for the prompt
disposition of criminal cases in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 208 of Title 18, United States Code.
Rule 54. Application and exception.
(b) Proceedings.
(3) Peace bonds.-These rules do not alter the power
of judges of the United States or of United States magistrate judges to hold to security of the peace and for good
behavior under Revised Statutes, § 4069, 50 U. S. C. § 23,
but in such cases the procedure shall conform to these
rules so far as they are applicable.
(4) Proceedings before United States magistrate
judges.-Proceedings involving misdemeanors and other
petty offenses are governed by Rule 58.
(c) Application of terms.-As used in these rules the
following terms have the designated meanings.
"Federal magistrate judge" means a United States magistrate judge as defined in 28 U. S. C. §§ 631-639, a judge of the
United States or another judge or judicial officer specifically
empowered by statute in force in any territory or possession,
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia, to perform a function to which a particular rule relates.
"Judge of the United States" includes a judge of a district
court, court of appeals, or the Supreme Court.
"Law" includes statutes and judicial decisions.

1182

RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

"Magistrate judge" includes a United States magistrate
judge as defined in 28 U. S. C. § 631-639, a judge of the
United States, another judge or judicial officer specifically
empowered by statute in force in any territory or possession,
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia, to perform a function to which a particular rule relates,
and a state or local judicial officer, authorized by 18 U. S. C.
§3041 to perform the functions prescribed in Rules 3, 4,
and 5.
"Oath" includes affirmations.
"Petty offense" is defined in 18 U. S. C. § 19.
"State" includes District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, territory and insular possession.
"United States magistrate judge" means the officer authorized by 28 U. S. C. §§ 631-639.
Rule 55. Records.
The clerk of the district court and each United States magistrate judge shall keep records in criminal proceedings in
such form as the Director of the Administrative Office of the
United States Courts may prescribe. The clerk shall enter
in the records each order or judgment of the court and the
date such entry is made.
Rule 57. Rules by district courts.
Each district court by action of a majority of the judges
thereof may from time to time, after giving appropriate public notice and an opportunity to comment, make and amend
rules governing its practice not inconsistent with these
rules. A local rule so adopted shall take effect upon the
date specified by the district court and shall remain in effect
unless amended by the district court or abrogated by the
judicial council of the circuit in which the district is located.
Copies of the rules and amendments so made by any district
court shall upon their promulgation be furnished to the judicial council and the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts and be made available to the public. In all
cases not provided for by rule, the district judges and magis-

RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

trate judges may regulate their practice in any manner not
inconsistent with these rules or those of the district in which
they act.
Rule 58. Procedure for misdemeanors and other petty
offenses.
(a) Scope.
(1) In general.-This rule governs the procedure and
practice for the conduct of proceedings involving misdemeanors and other petty offenses, and for appeals to
judges of the district courts in such cases tried by
United States magistrate judges.
(b) Pretrialprocedures.
(2) Initial appearance.-At the defendant's initial
appearance on a misdemeanor or other petty offense
charge, the court shall inform the defendant of:
(E) the right to trial, judgment, and sentencing
before a judge of the district court, unless the defendant consents to trial, judgment, and sentencing
before a magistrate judge;
(F) unless the charge is a petty offense, the right
to trial by jury before either a United States magistrate judge or a judge of the district court; and
(3) Consent and arraignment.
(A) Trial before a United States magistrate
judge.-If the defendant signs a written consent to
be tried before the magistrate judge which specifically waives trial before a judge of the district
court, the magistrate judge shall take the defendant's plea. The defendant may plead not guilty,
guilty, or with the consent of the magistrate judge,
nolo contendere.

RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

(B) Failure to consent.-If the defendant does
not consent to trial before the magistrate judge, the
defendant shall be ordered to appear before a judge
of the district court for further proceedings on
notice.
(c) Additional procedures applicable only to petty offenses for which no sentence of imprisonment will be imposed.-With respect to petty offenses for which no sentence
of imprisonment will be imposed, the following additional
procedures are applicable:
(2) Waiver of venue for plea and sentence.-A defendant who is arrested, held, or present in a district
other than that in which the indictment, information,
complaint, citation or violation notice is pending against
that defendant may state in writing a wish to plead
guilty or nolo contendere, to waive venue and trial in
the district in which the proceeding is pending, and to
consent to disposition of the case in the district in which
that defendant was arrested, is held, or is present. Unless the defendant thereafter pleads not guilty, the
prosecution shall be had as if venue were in such district, and notice of the same shall be given to the magistrate judge in the district where the proceeding was
originally commenced. The defendant's statement of a
desire to plead guilty or nolo contendere is not admissible against the defendant.
(d) Securing the defendant's appearance;payment in lieu
of appearance.
(2) Notice to appear.-If a defendant fails to pay a
fixed sum, request a hearing, or appear in response to a
citation or violation notice, the clerk or a magistrate
judge may issue a notice for the defendant to appear
before the court on a date certain. The notice may also
afford the defendant an additional opportunity to pay a

RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

1185

fixed sum in lieu of appearance, and shall be served upon
the defendant by mailing a copy to the defendant's last
known address.
(g) Appeal.
(2) Decision, order,judgment or sentence by a United
States magistratejudge.
(A) Interlocutory appeal.-A decision or order
by a magistrate judge which, if made by a judge of
the district court, could be appealed by the government or defendant under any provision of law, shall
be subject to an appeal to a judge of the district
court provided such appeal is taken within 10 days
of the entry of the decision or order. An appeal
shall be taken by filing with the clerk of court a
statement specifying the decision or order from
which an appeal is taken and by serving a copy of
the statement upon the adverse party, personally or
by mail, and by filing a copy with the magistrate
judge.
(B) Appeal from conviction or sentence.-An appeal from a judgment of conviction or sentence by
a magistrate judge to a judge of the district court
shall be taken within 10 days after entry of the
judgment. An appeal shall be taken by filing with
the clerk of court a statement specifying the judgment from which an appeal is taken, and by serving
a copy of the statement upon the United States Attorney, personally or by mail, and by filing a copy
with the magistrate judge.

PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE RULES
GOVERNING PROCEEDINGS IN THE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURTS
UNDER SECTION 2255 OF TITLE
28, UNITED STATES CODE
Rule 8. Evidentiary hearing.
(d) Productionof statements at evidentiary hearing.
(1) In general.-FederalRule of Criminal Procedure
26.2(a)-(d), and (f) applies at an evidentiary hearing
under these rules.
(2) Sanctions for failure to produce statement.-If a
party elects not to comply with an order under Federal
Rule of Criminal Procedure 26.2(a) to deliver a statement to the moving party, at the evidentiary hearing the
court may not consider the testimony of the witness
whose statement is withheld.

