AMENDMENTS TO
FEDERAL RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE
The following amendments to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure were
prescribed by the Supreme Court of the United States on April 22, 1993,
pursuant to 28 U. S. C. § 2072, and were reported to Congress by THE
CHIEF JUSTICE on the same date. For the letter of transmittal, see post,
p. 1090. The Judicial Conference report referred to in that letter is not
reproduced herein.
Note that under 28 U. S. C. § 2074, such amendments shall take effect
no earlier than December 1 of the year in which they are transmitted to
Congress unless otherwise provided by law.
For earlier publication of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and
amendments thereto, see 308 U. S. 645, 308 U. S. 642, 329 U. S. 839, 335
U. S. 919, 341 U. S. 959, 368 U. S. 1009, 374 U. S. 861, 383 U. S. 1029, 389
U. S. 1121, 398 U. S. 977, 401 U. S. 1017, 419 U. S. 1133, 446 U. S. 995, 456
U. S. 1013, 461 U. S. 1095, 471 U. S. 1153, 480 U. S. 953, 485 U. S. 1043, and
500 U. S. 963.

1089

LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
WASHINGTON, D. C.

APRIL

22, 1993

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress Assembled:
By direction of the Supreme Court of the United States,
I have the honor to submit to the Congress amendments to
the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure that have been adopted
by the Supreme Court pursuant to Section 2072 of Title 28,
United States Code. While the Court is satisfied that the
required procedures have been observed, this transmittal
does not necessarily indicate that the Court itself would have
proposed these amendments in the form submitted.
JUSTICE WHITE has issued a separate statement. JUSTICE SCALIA has issued a dissenting statement, which JUSTICE THOMAS joins and JUSTICE SOUTER joins in part.
Accompanying these rules are excerpts from the report of
the Judicial Conference of the United States containing the
Advisory Committee Notes submitted to the Court for its
consideration pursuant to Section 331 of Title 28, United
States Code.
Sincerely,
(Signed) WILLIAM H. REHNQUIST
Chief Justice of the United States

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
APRIL 22, 1993
ORDERED:

1. That the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure for the
United States District Courts be, and they hereby are,
amended by including therein amendments to Civil Rules 1,
4, 5, 11, 12, 15, 16, 26, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 36, 37, 38, 50,
52, 53, 54, 58, 71A, 72, 73, 74, 75, and 76, and new Rule 4.1,
and abrogation of Form 18-A, and amendments to Forms 2,
33, 34, and 34A, and new Forms 1A, 1B, and 35.
[See infra, pp. 1103-1159.]
2. That the foregoing amendments to the Federal Rules of
Civil Procedure shall take effect on December 1, 1993, and
shall govern all proceedings in civil cases thereafter commenced and, insofar as just and practicable, all proceedings
in civil cases then pending.
3. That THE CHIEF JUSTICE be, and he hereby is, authorized to transmit to the Congress the foregoing amendments
to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2072 of Title 28, United States
Code.
filed a statement.
Title 28 U. S. C. § 2072 empowers the Supreme Court to
prescribe general rules of practice and procedure and rules
of evidence for cases in the federal courts, including proceedings before magistrates and courts of appeals.' But the
Court does not itself draft and initially propose these rules.
Section 2073 directs the Judicial Conference to prescribe the
procedures for proposing the rules mentioned in §2072.
The Conference is authorized to appoint committees to propose such rules. These rules advisory committees are to be
JUSTICE WHITE

1 Section

2075 vests a similar power in the Court with respect to rules

for the bankruptcy courts.

1092

STATEMENT OF WHITE, J.

made up of members of the professional bar and trial and
appellate judges. The Conference is also to appoint a standing committee on rules of practice and evidence to review
the recommendations of the advisory committees and to recommend to the Conference such rules and amendments to
those rules "as may be necessary to maintain consistency and
otherwise promote the interest of justice." §2073(b). Any
rules approved by the Conference are transmitted to the Supreme Court, which in turn transmits any rules "prescribed"
pursuant to § 2072 to the Congress. Except as provided in
§ 2074(b), such rules become effective at a specified time unless Congress otherwise provides.
The members of the advisory and standing committees are
carefully named by THE CHIEF JUSTICE, and I am quite sure
that these experienced judges and lawyers take their work
very seriously. It is also quite evident that neither the
standing committee nor the Judicial Conference merely rubber stamps the proposals recommended to it. It is not at all
rare that advisory committee proposals are returned to the
originating committee for further study.
During my 31 years on the Court, the number of advisory
committees has grown as necessitated by statutory changes.
During that time, by my count at least, on some 64 occasions
we have "prescribed" and transmitted to Congress a new
set of rules or amendments to certain rules. Some of the
transmissions have been minor, but many of them have been
extensive. Over this time, Justices Black and Douglas,
either together or separately, dissented 13 times on the
ground that it was inappropriate for the Court to pass on the
merits of the rules before it.2 Aside from those two Jus2421

U. S. 1019, 1022 (1975) (Douglas, J., dissenting); 416 U. S. 1001, 1003

(1974) (Douglas, J., dissenting); 411 U. S. 989, 992 (1973) (Douglas, J., dissenting); 409 U. S. 1132 (1972) (Douglas, J., dissenting); 406 U. S. 979, 981
(1972) (Douglas, J., dissenting); 401 U. S. 1017, 1019 (1971) (Black and
Douglas, JJ., dissenting); 400 U. S. 1029, 1031 (1971) (Black, J., with whom
Douglas, J., joins, dissenting); 398 U. S. 977, 979 (1970) (Black and Douglas,
JJ., dissenting); 395 U. S. 989, 990 (1969) (Black, J., not voting); 383 U. S.
1087, 1089 (1966) (Black, J., dissenting); ibid. (Douglas, J., dissenting in

STATEMENT OF WHITE, J.

1093

tices, Justices Powell, Stewart and then-JUSTICE REHNQUIST dissented on one occasion and JUSTICE O'CONNOR on
another as to the substance of proposed rules. 446 U. S. 995,
997 (1980) (Powell, J., dissenting); 461 U. S. 1117, 1119 (1983)
(O'CONNOR, J., dissenting). Only once in my memory did
the Court refuse to transmit some of the rule changes proposed by the Judicial Conference. 500 U. S. 964 (1991).
That the Justices have hardly ever refused to transmit the
rules submitted by the Judicial Conference and the fact that,
aside from Justices Black and Douglas, it has been quite rare
for any Justice to dissent from transmitting any such rule,
suggest that a sizable majority of the 21 Justices who sat
during this period concluded that Congress intended them
to have a rather limited role in the rulemaking process. The
vast majority (including myself) obviously have not explicitly subscribed to the Black-Douglas view that many of the
rules proposed dealt with substantive matters that the Constitution reserved to Congress and that in any event were
prohibited by §2072's injunction against abridging, enlarging, or modifying substantive rights.
Some of us, however, have silently shared Justice Black's
and Justice Douglas' suggestion that the enabling statutes
be amended
"to place the responsibility upon the Judicial Conference
rather than upon this Court. Since the statute was first
enacted in 1934, 48 Stat. 1064, the Judicial Conference
has been enlarged and improved and is now very active
in its surveillance of the work of the federal courts and
in recommending appropriate legislation to Congress.
The present rules produced under 28 U. S. C. § 2072 are
not prepared by us but by Committees of the Judicial
Conference designated by THE CHIEF JUSTICE, and before coming to us they are approved by the Judicial Conference pursuant to 28 U. S. C. § 331. The Committees
and the Conference are composed of able and distinpart); 383 U. S. 1029, 1032 (1966) (Black, J., dissenting); 374 U. S. 861, 865
(1963) (Black and Douglas, JJ., dissenting).

STATEMENT OF WHITE, J.

guished members and they render a high public service.
It is they, however, who do the work, not we, and the
rules have only our imprimatur. The only contribution
that we actually make is an occasional exercise of a veto
power. If the rule-making for Federal District Courts
is to continue under the present plan, we believe that
the Supreme Court should not have any part in the task;
rather, the statute should be amended to substitute the
Judicial Conference. The Judicial Conference can participate more actively in fashioning the rules and affirmatively contribute to their content and design better
than we can. Transfer of the function to the Judicial
Conference would relieve us of the embarrassment of
having to sit in judgment on the constitutionality of
rules which we have approved and which as applied in
given situations might have to be declared invalid."
374 U. S. 865, 869-870 (1963) (footnote omitted).
Despite the repeated protestations of both or one of those
Justices, Congress did not eliminate our participation in the
rulemaking process. Indeed, our statutory role was continued as the coverage of § 2072 was extended to the rules of
evidence and to proceedings before magistrates. Congress
clearly continued to direct us to "prescribe" specified rules.
But most of us concluded that for at least two reasons Congress could not have intended us to provide another layer
of review equivalent to that of the standing committee and
the Judicial Conference. First, to perform such a function
would take an inordinate amount of time, the expenditure of
which would be inconsistent with the demands of a growing
caseload. Second, some us, and I remain of this view, were
quite sure that the Judicial Conference and its committees,
"being in large part judges of the lower courts and attorneys
who are using the Rules day in and day out, are in a far
better position to make a practical judgment upon their utility or inutility than we." 383 U. S.1089, 1090 (1966) (Douglas, J., dissenting in part).
I did my share of litigating when in practice and once
served on the Advisory Committee for the Civil Rules, but

STATEMENT OF WHITE, J.

1095

the trial practice is a dynamic profession, and the longer one
is away from it the less likely it is that he or she should
presume to second-guess the careful work of the active professionals manning the rulemaking committees, work that
the Judicial Conference has approved. At the very least, we
should not perform a de novo review and should defer to the
Judicial Conference and its committees as long as they have
some rational basis for their proposed amendments.
Hence, as I have seen the Court's role over the years, it is
to transmit the Judicial Conference's recommendations without change and without careful study, as long as there is no
suggestion that the committee system has not operated with
integrity. If it has not, such a fact, or even such a claim,
about a body so open to public inspection would inevitably
surface. This has been my practice, even though on several
occasions, based perhaps on out-of-date conceptions, I had
serious questions about the wisdom of particular proposals
to amend certain rules.
In connection with the proposed rule changes now before
us, there is no suggestion that the rulemaking process has
failed to function properly. No doubt the proposed changes
do not please everyone, as letters I have received indicate.
But I assume that such opposing views have been before the
committees and have been rejected on the merits. That is
enough for me.
Justice Douglas thought that the Court should be taken
out of the rulemaking process entirely, but as long as Congress insisted on our "prescribing" rules, he refused to be a
mere conduit and would dissent to forwarding rule changes
with which he disagreed. I note that JUSTICE SCALIA
seems to follow that example. But I also note that as time
went on, Justice Douglas confessed to insufficient familiarity
with the context in which new rules would operate to pass
3
judgment on their merits.
3

In dissenting from the order transmitting the Chapter XIII Bankruptcy Rules, Justice Douglas, among other things said: "Forty years ago

I had perhaps some expertise in the field; and I know enough about history, our Constitution, and our decisions to oppose the adoption of Rule

1096

DISSENTING STATEMENT OF SCALIA, J.

In conclusion, I suggest that it would be a mistake for the
bench, the bar, or the Congress to assume that we are duplicating the function performed by the standing committee or
the Judicial Conference with respect to changes in the various rules which come to us for transmittal. As I have said,
over the years our role has been a much more limited one.
JUSTICE SCALIA,

with whom JUSTICE THOMAS joins, and

with whom JUSTICE SOUTER joins as to Part II, filed a
dissenting statement.
I dissent from the Court's adoption of the amendments to
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure 11 (relating to sanctions for
frivolous litigation), and 26, 30, 31, 33, and 37 (relating to
discovery). In my view, the sanctions proposal will eliminate a significant and necessary deterrent to frivolous litigation; and the discovery proposal will increase litigation costs,
burden the district courts, and, perhaps worst of all, introduce into the trial process an element that is contrary to the
nature of our adversary system.
I
Rule 11
It is undeniably important to the Rules' goal of "the just,
speedy, and inexpensive determination of every action," Fed.
Rule Civ. Proc. 1, that frivolous pleadings and motions be
deterred. The current Rule 11 achieves that objective by
requiring sanctions when its standards are violated (though
leaving the court broad discretion as to the manner of sanction), and by allowing compensation for the moving party's
expenses and attorney's fees. The proposed revision would
920. But for most of these Rules I do not have sufficient insight and
experience to know whether they are desirable or undesirable. I must,
therefore, disassociate myself from them." 411 U. S.992, 994 (1973).
With respect to Amendments to the Rules of Criminal Procedure forwarded by the Court a year later, the following statement was appended
to the Court's order, 416 U. S.1003 (1974): "MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS is op-

posed to the Court's being a mere conduit of Rules to Congress since the
Court has had no hand in drafting them and has no competence to design
them in keeping with the titles and spirit of the Constitution."

DISSENTING STATEMENT OF SCALIA, J.

1097

render the Rule toothless, by allowing judges to dispense
with sanctions, by disfavoring compensation for litigation
expenses, and by providing a 21-day "safe harbor" within
which, if the party accused of a frivolous filing withdraws
the filing, he is entitled to escape with no sanction at all.
To take the last first: In my view, those who file frivolous
suits and pleadings should have no "safe harbor." The
Rules should be solicitous of the abused (the courts and the
opposing party) and not of the abuser. Under the revised
Rule, parties will be able to file thoughtless, reckless, and
harassing pleadings, secure in the knowledge that they have
nothing to lose: If objection is raised, they can retreat without penalty. The proposed revision contradicts what this
Court said only three years ago: "Baseless filing puts the
machinery of justice in motion, burdening courts and individuals alike with needless expense and delay. Even if the
careless litigant quickly dismisses the action, the harm triggering Rule l's concerns has already occurred. Therefore,
a litigant who violates Rule 11 merits sanctions even after a
dismissal." Cooter & Gell v. Hartmarx Corp., 496 U. S. 384,
398 (1990). The advisory committee itself was formerly of
the same view. Ibid. (quoting Letter from Chairman, Advisory Committee on Civil Rules).
The proposed Rule also decreases both the likelihood and
the severity of punishment for those foolish enough not to
seek refuge in the safe harbor after an objection is raised.
Proposed subsection (c) makes the issuance of any sanction
discretionary, whereas currently it is required. Judges, like
other human beings, do not like imposing punishment when
their duty does not require it, especially upon their own acquaintances and members of their own profession. They do
not immediately see, moreover, the systemwide benefits of
serious Rule 11 sanctions, though they are intensely aware
of the amount of their own time it would take to consider
and apply sanctions in the case before them. For these reasons, I think it important to the effectiveness of the scheme
that the sanctions remain mandatory.

1098

DISSENTING STATEMENT OF SCALIA, J.

Finally, the likelihood that frivolousness will even be challenged is diminished by the proposed Rule, which restricts
the award of compensation to "unusual circumstances," with
monetary sanctions "ordinarily" to be payable to the court.
Advisory Committee Notes to Proposed Rule 11, pp. 53-54.
Under Proposed Rule 11(c)(2), a court may order payment
for "some or all of the reasonable attorneys' fees and other
expenses incurred as a direct result of the violation" only
when that is "warranted for effective deterrence." Since
the deterrent effect of a fine is rarely increased by altering
the identity of the payee, it takes imagination to conceive of
instances in which this provision will ever apply. And the
commentary makes it clear that even when compensation is
granted it should be granted stingily--only for costs "directly and unavoidably caused by the violation." Id., at 54.
As seen from the viewpoint of the victim of an abusive litigator, these revisions convert Rule 11 from a means of obtaining compensation to an invitation to throw good money after
bad. The net effect is to decrease the incentive on the part
of the person best situated to alert the court to perversion
of our civil justice system.
I would not have registered this dissent if there were convincing indication that the current Rule 11 regime is ineffective or encourages excessive satellite litigation. But there
appears to be general agreement, reflected in a recent report
of the advisory committee itself, that Rule 11, as written,
basically works. According to that report, a Federal Judicial Center survey showed that 80% of district judges believe
Rule 11 has had an overall positive effect and should be retained in its present form, 95% believed the Rule had not
impeded development of the law, and about 75% said the benefits justify the expenditure of judicial time. See Interim
Report on Rule 11, Advisory Committee on Civil Rules, reprinted in G. Vairo, Rule 11 Sanctions: Case Law Perspectives and Preventive Measures, App. 1-8 to 1-10 (2d ed.
1991). True, many lawyers do not like Rule 11. It may
cause them financial liability, it may damage their professional reputation in front of important clients, and the cost-

DISSENTING STATEMENT OF SCALIA, J.

1099

of-litigation savings it produces are savings not to lawyers
but to litigants. But the overwhelming approval of the Rule
by the federal district judges who daily grapple with the
problem of litigation abuse is enough to persuade me that it
should not be gutted as the proposed revision suggests.'
II
Discovery Rules
The proposed radical reforms to the discovery process are
potentially disastrous and certainly premature-particularly
the imposition on litigants of a continuing duty to disclose
to opposing counsel, without awaiting any request, various information "relevant to disputed facts alleged with particularity." See Proposed Rules 26(a)(1)(A), (a)(1)(B), (e)(1).
This proposal is promoted as a means of reducing the unnecessary expense and delay that occur in the present discovery
regime. But the duty-to-disclose regime does not replace
the current, much-criticized discovery process; rather, it
adds a further layer of discovery. It will likely increase
the discovery burdens on district judges, as parties litigate
about what is "relevant" to "disputed facts," whether those
facts have been alleged with sufficient particularity, whether
the opposing side has adequately disclosed the required information, and whether it has fulfilled its continuing obligation to supplement the initial disclosure. Documents will be
produced that turn out to be irrelevant to the litigation, because of the early inception of the duty to disclose and the
severe penalties on a party who fails to disgorge in a manner
consistent with the duty. See Proposed Rule 37(c) (prohibit'I do not disagree with the proposal to make law firms liable for an
attorney's misconduct under the Rule, see Proposed Rule 11(c), or with
the proposal that Rule 11 sanctions be applied when claims in pleadings

that at one time were not in violation of the Rule are pursued after it is
evident that they lack support, see Proposed Rule 11(b); Advisory Committee Notes to Proposed Rule 11, p. 51.
It is curious that the proposed Rule regarding sanctions for discovery
abuses requires sanctions, and specifically recommends financial sanctions
and compensation to the moving party. See Proposed Rules 37(a)(4)(A),

(c)(1). No explanation for the inconsistency is given.

1100

DISSENTING STATEMENT OF SCALIA, J.

ing, in some circumstances, use of witnesses or information
not voluntarily disclosed pursuant to the disclosure duty,
and authorizing divulgement to the jury of the failure to
disclose).
The proposed new regime does not fit comfortably within
the American judicial system, which relies on adversarial litigation to develop the facts before a neutral decisionmaker.
By placing upon lawyers the obligation to disclose information damaging to their clients-on their own initiative, and
in a context where the lines between what must be disclosed
and what need not be disclosed are not clear but require the
exercise of considerable judgment-the new Rule would
place intolerable strain upon lawyers' ethical duty to represent their clients and not to assist the opposing side. Requiring a lawyer to make a judgment as to what information
is "relevant to disputed facts" plainly requires him to use
his professional skills in the service of the adversary. See
Advisory Committee Notes to Proposed Rule 26, p. 96.
It seems to me most imprudent to embrace such a radical
alteration that has not, as the advisory committee notes, see
id., at 94, been subjected to any significant testing on a local
level. Two early proponents of the duty-to-disclose regime
(both of whom had substantial roles in the development of
the proposed Rule-one as Director of the Federal Judicial
Center and one as a member of the advisory committee) at
one time noted the need for such study prior to adoption of
a national rule. Schwarzer, The Federal Rules, the Adversary Process, and Discovery Reform, 50 U. Pitt. L. Rev. 703,
723 (1989); Brazil, The Adversary Character of Civil Discovery: A Critique and Proposals for Change, 31 Vand. L.
Rev. 1295, 1361 (1978). More importantly, Congress itself
reached the same conclusion that local experiments to reduce
discovery costs and abuse are essential before major revision,
and in the Civil Justice Reform Act of 1990, Pub. L. 101-650,
§§ 104, 105, 104 Stat. 5097-5098, mandated an extensive
pilot program for district courts. See also 28 U. S. C.
§§471, 473(a)(2)(C). Under that legislation, short-term experiments relating to discovery and case management are to

DISSENTING STATEMENT OF SCALIA, J.

last at least three years, and the Judicial Conference is to
report the results of these experiments to Congress, along
with recommendations, by the end of 1995. Pub. L. 101-650,
§ 105, 104 Stat. 5097-5098. Apparently, the advisory committee considered this timetable schedule too prolonged, see
Advisory Committee Notes to Proposed Rule 26, p. 95, preferring instead to subject the entire federal judicial system
at once to an extreme, costly, and essentially untested revision of a major component of civil litigation. That seems to
me unwise. Any major reform of the discovery rules should
await completion of the pilot programs authorized by Congress, especially since courts already have substantial discretion to control discovery.2 See Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 26.
I am also concerned that this revision has been recommended in the face of nearly universal criticism from every
conceivable sector of our judicial system, including judges,
practitioners, litigants, academics, public interest groups,
and national, state and local bar, and professional associations. See generally Bell, Varner, & Gottschalk, Automatic
Disclosure in Discovery-The Rush to Reform, 27 Ga. L.
Rev. 1, 28-32, and nn. 107-121 (1992). Indeed, after the proposed Rule in essentially its present form was published to
comply with the notice-and-comment requirement of 28
U. S. C. § 2071(b), public criticism was so severe that the
advisory committee announced abandonment of its duty-todisclose regime (in favor of limited pilot experiments), but
then, without further public comment or explanation, decided six weeks later to recommend the rule. 27 Ga. L. Rev.,
at 35.
Constant reform of the federal rules to correct emerging
problems is essential. JUSTICE WHITE observes that Justice Douglas, who in earlier years on the Court had been
wont to note his disagreements with proposed changes, gen2For

the same reason, the proposed presumptive limits on depositions

and interrogatories, see Proposed Rules 30, 31, and 33, should not be
implemented.

1102

DISSENTING STATEMENT OF SCALIA, J.

erally abstained from doing so later on, acknowledging that
his expertise had grown stale. Ante, at 1095-1096, and n. 3.
Never having specialized in trial practice, I began at the
level of expertise (and of acquiescence in others' proposals)
with which Justice Douglas ended. Both categories of revision on which I remark today, however, seem to me not matters of expert detail, but rise to the level of principle and
purpose that even Justice Douglas in his later years continued to address. It takes no expert to know that a measure
which eliminates rather than strengthens a deterrent to frivolous litigation is not what the times demand; and that a
breathtakingly novel revision of discovery practice should
not be adopted nationwide without a trial run.
In the respects described, I dissent from the Court's order.

AMENDMENTS TO THE FEDERAL RULES
OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

Rule 1. Scope and purpose of rules.
These rules govern the procedure in the United States district courts in all suits of a civil nature whether cognizable
as cases at law or in equity or in admiralty, with the exceptions stated in Rule 81. They shall be construed and administered to secure the just, speedy, and inexpensive determination of every action.
Rule 4. Summons.
(a) Form.-The summons shall be signed by the clerk,
bear the seal of the court, identify the court and the parties,
be directed to the defendant, and state the name and address
of the plaintiff's attorney or, if unrepresented, of the plaintiff.
It shall also state the time within which the defendant must
appear and defend, and notify the defendant that failure to
do so will result in a judgment by default against the defendant for the relief demanded in the complaint. The court may
allow a summons to be amended.
(b) Issuance.-Upon or after filing the complaint, the
plaintiff may present a summons to the clerk for signature
and seal. If the summons is in proper form, the clerk shall
sign, seal, and issue it to the plaintiff for service on the defendant. A summons, or a copy of the summons if addressed
to multiple defendants, shall be issued for each defendant to
be served.
(c) Service with complaint; by whom made.
(1) A summons shall be served together with a copy
of the complaint. The plaintiff is responsible for service
of a summons and complaint within the time allowed
under subdivision (m)and shall furnish the person ef1103

1104

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

fecting service with the necessary copies of the summons and complaint.
(2) Service may be effected by any person who is not
a party and who is at least 18 years of age. At the request of the plaintiff, however, the court may direct that
service be effected by a United States marshal, deputy
United States marshal, or other person or officer specially appointed by the court for that purpose. Such an
appointment must be made when the plaintiff is authorized to proceed in forma pauperis pursuant to 28 U. S. C.
§ 1915 or is authorized to proceed as a seaman under 28
U. S. C. § 1916.
(d) Waiver of service; duty to save costs of service; request to waive.
(1) A defendant who waives service of a summons
does not thereby waive any objection to the venue or
to the jurisdiction of the court over the person of the
defendant.
(2) An individual, corporation, or association that is
subject to service under subdivision (e), (f), or (h) and
that receives notice of an action in the manner provided
in this paragraph has a duty to avoid unnecessary costs
of serving the summons. To avoid costs, the plaintiff
may notify such a defendant of the commencement of
the action and request that the defendant waive service
of a summons. The notice and request
(A) shall be in writing and shall be addressed directly
to the defendant, if an individual, or else to an officer or
managing or general agent (or other agent authorized
by appointment or law to receive service of process) of
a defendant subject to service under subdivision (h);
(B) shall be dispatched through first-class mail or
other reliable means;
(C) shall be accompanied by a copy of the complaint
and shall identify the court in which it has been filed;
(D) shall inform the defendant, by means of a text
prescribed in an official form promulgated pursuant to

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

Rule 84, of the consequences of compliance and of a failure to comply with the request;
(E) shall set forth the date on which the request is
sent;
(F) shall allow the defendant a reasonable time to return the waiver, which shall be at least 30 days from the
date on which the request is sent, or 60 days from that
date if the defendant is addressed outside any judicial
district of the United States; and
(G) shall provide the defendant with an extra copy of
the notice and request, as well as a prepaid means of
compliance in writing.
If a defendant located within the United States fails to comply with a request for waiver made by a plaintiff located
within the United States, the court shall impose the costs
subsequently incurred in effecting service on the defendant
unless good cause for the failure be shown.
(3) A defendant that, before being served with process, timely returns a waiver so requested is not required
to serve an answer to the complaint until 60 days after
the date on which the request for waiver of service was
sent, or 90 days after that date if the defendant was
addressed outside any judicial district of the United
States.
(4) When the plaintiff files a waiver of service with
the court, the action shall proceed, except as provided
in paragraph (3), as if a summons and complaint had
been served at the time of filing the waiver, and no proof
of service shall be required.
(5) The costs to be imposed on a defendant under
paragraph (2) for failure to comply with a request to
waive service of a summons shall include the costs subsequently incurred in effecting service under subdivision
(e), (f), or (h), together with the costs, including a reasonable attorney's fee, of any motion required to collect
the costs of service.

1106

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

(e) Service upon individuals within a judicial district of
the United States.-Unless otherwise provided by federal
law, service upon an individual from whom a waiver has not
been obtained and filed, other than an infant or an incompetent person, may be effected in any judicial district of the
United States:
(1) pursuant to the law of the state in which the district court is located, or in which service is effected, for
the service of a summons upon the defendant in an action brought in the courts of general jurisdiction of the
State; or
(2) by delivering a copy of the summons and of the
complaint to the individual personally or by leaving copies thereof at the individual's dwelling house or usual
place of abode with some person of suitable age and discretion then residing therein or by delivering a copy of
the summons and of the complaint to an agent authorized by appointment or by law to receive service of
process.
(f) Service upon individuals in a foreign country.-Unless otherwise provided by federal law, service upon an individual from whom a waiver has not been obtained and filed,
other than an infant or an incompetent person, may be effected in a place not within any judicial district of the
United States:
(1) by any internationally agreed means reasonably
calculated to give notice, such as those means authorized
by the Hague Convention on the Service Abroad of Judicial and Extrajudicial Documents; or
(2) if there is no internationally agreed means of service or the applicable international agreement allows
other means of service, provided that service is reasonably calculated to give notice:
(A) in the manner prescribed by the law of the foreign
country for service in that country in an action in any of
its courts of general jurisdiction; or

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

(B) as directed by the foreign authority in response
to a letter rogatory or letter of request; or
(C) unless prohibited by the law of the foreign country, by
(i) delivery to the individual personally of a copy
of the summons and the complaint; or
(ii) any form of mail requiring a signed receipt,
to be addressed and dispatched by the clerk of the
court to the party to be served; or
(3) by other means not prohibited by international
agreement as may be directed by the court.
(g) Service upon infants and incompetent persons.Service upon an infant or an incompetent person in a judicial
district of the United States shall be effected in the manner
prescribed by the law of the state in which the service is
made for the service of summons or other like process upon
any such defendant in an action brought in the courts of general jurisdiction of that state. Service upon an infant or an
incompetent person in a place not within any judicial district
of the United States shall be effected in the manner prescribed by paragraph (2)(A) or (2)(B) of subdivision (f) or by
such means as the court may direct.
(h) Service upon corporationsand associations.-Unless
otherwise provided by federal law, service upon a domestic
or foreign corporation or upon a partnership or other unincorporated association that is subject to suit under a common
name, and from which a waiver of service has not been obtained and filed, shall be effected:
(1) in a judicial district of the United States in the
manner prescribed for individuals by subdivision (e)(1),
or by delivering a copy of the summons and of the complaint to an officer, a managing or general agent, or to
any other agent authorized by appointment or by law to
receive service of process and, if the agent is one authorized by statute to receive service and the statute so requires, by also mailing a copy to the defendant, or

1108

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

(2) in a place not within any judicial district of the
United States in any manner prescribed for individuals
by subdivision (f) except personal delivery as provided
in paragraph (2)(C)(i) thereof.
(i) Service upon the United States, and its agencies, corporations, or officers.
(1) Service upon the United States shall be effected
(A) by delivering a copy of the summons and of the
complaint to the United States attorney for the district
in which the action is brought or to an assistant United
States attorney or clerical employee designated by the
United States attorney in a writing filed with the clerk
of the court or by sending a copy of the summons and of
the complaint by registered or certified mail addressed
to the civil process clerk at the office of the United
States attorney and
(B) by also sending a copy of the summons and of the
complaint by registered or certified mail to the Attorney
General of the United States at Washington, District of
Columbia, and
(C) in any action attacking the validity of an order of
an officer or agency of the United States not made a
party, by also sending a copy of the summons and of the
complaint by registered or certified mail to the officer
or agency.
(2) Service upon an officer, agency, or corporation of
the United States shall be effected by serving the
United States in the manner prescribed by paragraph
(1) of this subdivision and by also sending a copy of the
summons and of the complaint by registered or certified
mail to the officer, agency, or corporation.
(3) The court shall allow a reasonable time for service
of process under this subdivision for the purpose of
curing the failure to serve multiple officers, agencies, or
corporations of the United States if the plaintiff has
effected service on either the United States attorney or
the Attorney General of the United States.

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

1109

(j) Service upon foreign, state, or local governments.
(1) Service upon a foreign state or a political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof shall be effected
pursuant to 28 U. S. C. § 1608.
(2) Service upon a state, municipal corporation, or
other governmental organization subject to suit shall be
effected by delivering a copy of the summons and of the
complaint to its chief executive officer or by serving the
summons and complaint in the manner prescribed by the
law of that state for the service of summons or other
like process upon any such defendant.
(k) Territoriallimits of effective service.
(1) Service of a summons or filing a waiver of service
is effective to establish jurisdiction over the person of
a defendant
(A) who could be subjected to the jurisdiction of a
court of general jurisdiction in the state in which the
district court is located, or
(B) who is a party joined under Rule 14 or Rule 19
and is served at a place within a judicial district of the
United States and not more than 100 miles from the
place from which the summons issues, or
(C) who is subject to the federal interpleader jurisdiction under 28 U. S. C. § 1335, or
(D) when authorized by a statute of the United
States.
(2) If the exercise of jurisdiction is consistent with the
Constitution and laws of the United States, serving a
summons or filing a waiver of service is also effective,
with respect to claims arising under federal law, to establish personal jurisdiction over the person of any defendant who is not subject to the jurisdiction of the
courts of general jurisdiction of any state.
(1) Proof of service.-If service is not waived, the person
effecting service shall make proof thereof to the court. If
service is made by a person other than a United States marshal or deputy United States marshal, the person shall make

1110

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

affidavit thereof. Proof of service in a place not within any
judicial district of the United States shall, if effected under
paragraph (1) of subdivision (f), be made pursuant to the applicable treaty or convention, and shall, if effected under
paragraph (2) or (3) thereof, include a receipt signed by the
addressee or other evidence of delivery to the addressee satisfactory to the court. Failure to make proof of service does
not affect the validity of the service. The court may allow
proof of service to be amended.
(m) Time limit for service.-If service of the summons
and complaint is not made upon a defendant within 120 days
after the filing of the complaint, the court, upon motion or
on its own initiative after notice to the plaintiff, shall dismiss
the action without prejudice as to that defendant or direct
that service be effected within a specified time; provided that
if the plaintiff shows good cause for the failure, the court
shall extend the time for service for an appropriate period.
This subdivision does not apply to service in a foreign country pursuant to subdivision (f) or (j)(1).
(n) Seizure of property; service of summons not feasible.
(1) If a statute of the United States so provides, the
court may assert jurisdiction over property. Notice to
claimants of the property shall then be sent in the manner provided by the statute or by service of a summons
under this rule.
(2) Upon a showing that personal jurisdiction over a
defendant cannot, in the district where the action is
brought, be obtained with reasonable efforts by service
of summons in any manner authorized by this rule, the
court may assert jurisdiction over any of the defendant's
assets found within the district by seizing the assets
under the circumstances and in the manner provided by
the law of the state in which the district court is located.
Rule 4.1. Service of other process.
(a) Generally.-Process other than a summons as provided in Rule 4 or subpoena as provided in Rule 45 shall be
served by a United States marshal, a deputy United States

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

marshal, or a person specially appointed for that purpose,
who shall make proof of service as provided in Rule 4(1).
The process may be served anywhere within the territorial
limits of the state in which the district court is located, and,
when authorized by a statute of the United States, beyond
the territorial limits of that state.
(b) Enforcement of orders: commitment for civil contempt.-An order of civil commitment of a person held to be
in contempt of a decree or injunction issued to enforce the
laws of the United States may be served and enforced in any
district. Other orders in civil contempt proceedings shall be
served in the state in which the court issuing the order to
be enforced is located or elsewhere within the United States
if not more than 100 miles from the place at which the order
to be enforced was issued.
Rule 5. Service andfiling of pleadings and other papers.
(e) Filing with the court defined.-The filing of papers
with the court as required by these rules shall be made by
filing them with the clerk of the court, except that the judge
may permit the papers to be filed with the judge, in which
event the judge shall note thereon the filing date and forthwith transmit them to the office of the clerk. A court may,
by local rule, permit papers to be filed by facsimile or other
electronic means if such means are authorized by and consistent with standards established by the Judicial Conference of
the United States. The clerk shall not refuse to accept for
filing any paper presented for that purpose solely because it
is not presented in proper form as required by these rules
or any local rules or practices.
Rule 11. Signing of pleadings, motions, and other papers;
representationsto court; sanctions.
(a) Signature.-Every pleading, written motion, and other
paper shall be signed by at least one attorney of record in
the attorney's individual name, or, if the party is not represented by an attorney, shall be signed by the party. Each

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

paper shall state the signer's address and telephone number,
if any. Except when otherwise specifically provided by rule
or statute, pleadings need not be verified or accompanied by
affidavit. An unsigned paper shall be stricken unless omission of the signature is corrected promptly after being called
to the attention of the attorney or party.
(b) Representations to court.-By presenting to the court
(whether by signing, filing, submitting, or later advocating)
a pleading, written motion, or other paper, an attorney or
unrepresented party is certifying that to the best of the person's knowledge, information, and belief, formed after an inquiry reasonable under the circumstances,(1) it is not being presented for any improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or
needless increase in the cost of litigation;
(2) the claims, defenses, and other legal contentions
therein are warranted by existing law or by a nonfrivolous argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law or the establishment of new law;
(3) the allegations and other factual contentions have
evidentiary support or, if specifically so identified, are
likely to have evidentiary support after a reasonable opportunity for further investigation or discovery; and
(4) the denials of factual contentions are warranted
on the evidence or, if specifically so identified, are reasonably based on a lack of information or belief.
(c) Sanctions.-If, after notice and a reasonable opportunity to respond, the court determines that subdivision (b) has
been violated, the court may, subject to the conditions stated
below, impose an appropriate sanction upon the attorneys,
law firms, or parties that have violated subdivision (b) or are
responsible for the violation.
(1) How initiated.
(A) By motion.-A motion for sanctions under this
rule shall be made separately from other motions or requests and shall describe the specific conduct alleged to
violate subdivision (b). It shall be served as provided

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

1113

in Rule 5, but shall not be filed with or presented to the
court unless, within 21 days after service of the motion
(or such other period as the court may prescribe), the
challenged paper, claim, defense, contention, allegation,
or denial is not withdrawn or appropriately corrected.
If warranted, the court may award to the party prevailing on the motion the reasonable expenses and attorney's fees incurred in presenting or opposing the motion.
Absent exceptional circumstances, a law firm shall be
held jointly responsible for violations committed by its
partners, associates, and employees.
(B) On court's initiative.-On its own initiative, the
court may enter an order describing the specific conduct
that appears to violate subdivision (b) and directing an
attorney, law firm, or party to show cause why it has
not violated subdivision (b) with respect thereto.
(2) Nature of sanction; limitations.-A sanction imposed for violation of this rule shall be limited to what
is sufficient to deter repetition of such conduct or comparable conduct by others similarly situated. Subject to
the limitations in subparagraphs (A) and (B), the sanction may consist of, or include, directives of a nonmonetary nature, an order to pay a penalty into court, or, if
imposed on motion and warranted for effective deterrence, an order directing payment to the movant of some
or all of the reasonable attorneys' fees and other expenses incurred as a direct result of the violation.
(A) Monetary sanctions may not be awarded
against a represented party for a violation of subdivision (b)(2).
(B) Monetary sanctions may not be awarded on
the court's initiative unless the court issues its order
to show cause before a voluntary dismissal or settlement of the claims made by or against the party
which is, or whose attorneys are, to be sanctioned.
(3) Order.-When imposing sanctions, the court shall
describe the conduct determined to constitute a viola-

1114

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

tion of this rule and explain the basis for the sanction
imposed.
(d) Inapplicability to discovery.-Subdivisions (a)
through (c) of this rule do not apply to disclosures and discovery requests, responses, objections, and motions that are
subject to the provisions of Rules 26 through 37.
Rule 12. Defenses and objections-when and how presented-by pleading or motion-motion for judgment
on the pleadings.
(a) When presented.
(1) Unless a different time is prescribed in a statute
of the United States, a defendant shall serve an answer
(A) within 20 days after being served with the summons and complaint, or
(B) if service of the summons has been timely waived
on request under Rule 4(d), within 60 days after the date
when the request for waiver was sent, or within 90 days
after that date if the defendant was addressed outside
any judicial district of the United States.
(2) A party served with a pleading stating a crossclaim against that party shall serve an answer thereto
within 20 days after being served. The plaintiff shall
serve a reply to a counterclaim in the answer within 20
days after service of the answer, or, if a reply is ordered
by the court, within 20 days after service of the order,
unless the order otherwise directs.
(3) The United States or an officer or agency thereof
shall serve an answer to the complaint or to a crossclaim, or a reply to a counterclaim, within 60 days after
the service upon the United States attorney of the
pleading in which the claim is asserted.
(4) Unless a different time is fixed by court order, the
service of a motion permitted under this rule alters
these periods of time as follows:
(A) if the court denies the motion or postpones its
disposition until the trial on the merits, the responsive

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

1115

pleading shall be served within 10 days after notice of
the court's action; or
(B) if the court grants a motion for a more definite
statement, the responsive pleading shall be served
within 10 days after the service of the more definite
statement.
Rule 15. Amended and supplemental pleadings.
(c) Relation back of amendments.-An amendment of a
pleading relates back to the date of the original pleading
when
(1) relation back is permitted by the law that provides
the statute of limitations applicable to the action, or
(2) the claim or defense asserted in the amended
pleading arose out of the conduct, transaction, or occurrence set forth or attempted to be set forth in the original pleading, or
(3) the amendment changes the party or the naming
of the party against whom a claim is asserted if the foregoing provision (2) is satisfied and, within the period
provided by Rule 4(m) for service of the summons and
complaint, the party to be brought in by amendment (A)
has received such notice of the institution of the action
that the party will not be prejudiced in maintaining a
defense on the merits, and (B) knew or should have
known that, but for a mistake concerning the identity of
the proper party, the action would have been brought
against the party.
The delivery or mailing of process to the United
States Attorney, or United States Attorney's designee,
or the Attorney General of the United States, or an
agency or officer who would have been a proper defendant if named, satisfies the requirement of subparagraphs
(A) and (B) of this paragraph (3) with respect to the
United States or any agency or officer thereof to be
brought into the action as a defendant.

1116

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

Rule 16. Pretrialconferences; scheduling; management.
(b) Scheduling and planning.-Except in categories of
actions exempted by district court rule as inappropriate,
the district judge, or a magistrate judge when authorized
by district court rule, shall, after receiving the report from
the parties under Rule 26(f) or after consulting with the attorneys for the parties and any unrepresented parties by
a scheduling conference, telephone, mail, or other suitable
means, enter a scheduling order that limits the time
(1) to join other parties and to amend the pleadings;
(2) to file motions; and
(3) to complete discovery.
The scheduling order may also include
(4) modifications of the times for disclosures under
Rules 26(a) and 26(e)(1) and of the extent of discovery
to be permitted;
(5) the date or dates for conferences before trial, a
final pretrial conference, and trial; and
(6) any other matters appropriate in the circumstances of the case.
The order shall issue as soon as practicable but in any event
within 90 days after the appearance of a defendant and
within 120 days after the complaint has been served on a
defendant. A schedule shall not be modified except upon a
showing of good cause and by leave of the district judge or,
when authorized by local rule, by a magistrate judge.
(c) Subjects for consideration at pretrial conferences.At any conference under this rule consideration may be
given, and the court may take appropriate action, with respect to
(1) the formulation and simplification of the issues, including the elimination of frivolous claims or defenses;
(2) the necessity or desirability of amendments to
the pleadings;
(3) the possibility of obtaining admissions of fact and
of documents which will avoid unnecessary proof, stipu-

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

1117

lations regarding the authenticity of documents, and
advance rulings from the court on the admissibility of
evidence;
(4) the avoidance of unnecessary proof and of cumulative evidence, and limitations or restrictions on the use
of testimony under Rule 702 of the Federal Rules of
Evidence;
(5) the appropriateness and timing of summary adjudication under Rule 56;
(6) the control and scheduling of discovery, including
orders affecting disclosures and discovery pursuant to
Rule 26 and Rules 29 through 37;
(7) the identification of witnesses and documents, the
need and schedule for filing and exchanging pretrial
briefs, and the date or dates for further conferences and
for trial;
(8) the advisability of referring matters to a magistrate judge or master;
(9) settlement and the use of special procedures to assist in resolving the dispute when authorized by statute
or local rule;
(10) the form and substance of the pretrial order;
(11) the disposition of pending motions;
(12) the need for adopting special procedures for managing potentially difficult or protracted actions that may
involve complex issues, multiple parties, difficult legal
questions, or unusual proof problems;
(13) an order for a separate trial pursuant to Rule
42(b) with respect to a claim, counterclaim, cross-claim,
or third-party claim, or with respect to any particular
issue in the case;
(14) an order directing a party or parties to present
evidence early in the trial with respect to a manageable
issue that could, on the evidence, be the basis for a judgment as a matter of law under Rule 50(a) or a judgment
on partial findings under Rule 52(c);
(15) an order establishing a reasonable limit on the
time allowed for presenting evidence; and

1118

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

(16) such other matters as may facilitate the just,
speedy, and inexpensive disposition of the action.
At least one of the attorneys for each party participating in
any conference before trial shall have authority to enter into
stipulations and to make admissions regarding all matters
that the participants may reasonably anticipate may be discussed. If appropriate, the court may require that a party
or its representative be present or reasonably available by
telephone in order to consider possible settlement of the
dispute.
Rule 26. General provisions governing discovery; duty of
disclosure.
(a) Required disclosures;methods to discover additional
matter.
(1) Initial disclosures.-Except to the extent otherwise stipulated or directed by order or local rule, a party
shall, without awaiting a discovery request, provide to
other parties:
(A) the name and, if known, the address and
telephone number of each individual likely to have
discoverable information relevant to disputed facts
alleged with particularity in the pleadings, identifying the subjects of the information;
(B) a copy of, or a description by category and
location of, all documents, data compilations, and
tangible things in the possession, custody, or control
of the party that are relevant to disputed facts alleged with particularity in the pleadings;
(C) a computation of any category of damages
claimed by the disclosing party, making available
for inspection and copying as under Rule 34 the documents or other evidentiary material, not privileged
or protected from disclosure, on which such computation is based, including materials bearing on the
nature and extent of injuries suffered; and

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

1119

(D) for inspection and copying as under Rule 34
any insurance agreement under which any person
carrying on an insurance business may be liable to
satisfy part or all of a judgment which may be entered in the action or to indemnify or reimburse for
payments made to satisfy the judgment.
Unless otherwise stipulated or directed by the court,
these disclosures shall be made at or within 10 days
after the meeting of the parties under subdivision (f).
A party shall make its initial disclosures based on the
information then reasonably available to it and is not
excused from making its disclosures because it has
not fully completed its investigation of the case or because it challenges the sufficiency of another party's disclosures or because another party has not made its
disclosures.
(2) Disclosure of expert testimony.
(A) In addition to the disclosures required by
paragraph (1), a party shall disclose to other parties
the identity of any person who may be used at trial
to present evidence under Rules 702, 703, or 705 of
the Federal Rules of Evidence.
(B) Except as otherwise stipulated or directed by
the court, this disclosure shall, with respect to a
witness who is retained or specially employed to
provide expert testimony in the case or whose duties as an employee of the party regularly involve
giving expert testimony, be accompanied by a written report prepared and signed by the witness.
The report shall contain a complete statement of all
opinions to be expressed and the basis and reasons
therefor; the data or other information considered
by the witness in forming the opinions; any exhibits
to be used as a summary of or support for the opinions; the qualifications of the witness, including a
list of all publications authored by the witness
within the preceding ten years; the compensation to

1120

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

be paid for the study and testimony; and a listing of
any other cases in which the witness has testified
as an expert at trial or by deposition within the
preceding four years.
(C) These disclosures shall be made at the times
and in the sequence directed by the court. In the
absence of other directions from the court or stipulation by the parties, the disclosures shall be made
at least 90 days before the trial date or the date the
case is to be ready for trial or, if the evidence is
intended solely to contradict or rebut evidence on
the same subject matter identified by another party
under paragraph (2)(B), within 30 days after the disclosure made by the other party. The parties shall
supplement these disclosures when required under
subdivision (e)(1).
(3) Pretrial disclosures.-In addition to the disclosures required in the preceding paragraphs, a party
shall provide to other parties the following information
regarding the evidence that it may present at trial other
than solely for impeachment purposes:
(A) the name and, if not previously provided, the
address and telephone number of each witness, separately identifying those whom the party expects to
present and those whom the party may call if the
need arises;
(B) the designation of those witnesses whose testimony is expected to be presented by means of a
deposition and, if not taken stenographically, a transcript of the pertinent portions of the deposition
testimony; and
(C) an appropriate identification of each document or other exhibit, including summaries of other
evidence, separately identifying those which the
party expects to offer and those which the party
may offer if the need arises.

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

Unless otherwise directed by the court, these disclosures shall be made at least 30 days before trial.
Within 14 days thereafter, unless a different time is
specified by the court, a party may serve and file a list
disclosing (i) any objections to the use under Rule 32(a)
of a deposition designated by another party under subparagraph (B) and (ii) any objection, together with the
grounds therefor, that may be made to the admissibility
of materials identified under subparagraph (C). Objections not so disclosed, other than objections under Rules
402 and 403 of the Federal Rules of Evidence, shall be
deemed waived unless excused by the court for good
cause shown.
(4) Form of disclosures;filing.-Unlessotherwise directed by order or local rule, all disclosures under paragraphs (1) through (3) shall be made in writing, signed,
served, and promptly filed with the court.
(5) Methods to discover additionalmatter.-Parties
may obtain discovery by one or more of the following
methods: depositions upon oral examination or written
questions; written interrogatories; production of documents or things or permission to enter upon land or
other property under Rule 34 or 45(a)(1)(C), for inspection and other purposes; physical and mental examinations; and requests for admission.
(b) Discovery scope and limits.-Unless otherwise limited
by order of the court in accordance with these rules, the
scope of discovery is as follows:
(1) In general.-Partiesmay obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, which is relevant to the
subject matter involved in the pending action, whether
it relates to the claim or defense of the party seeking
discovery or to the claim or defense of any other party,
including the existence, description, nature, custody,
condition, and location of any books, documents, or other
tangible things and the identity and location of persons
having knowledge of any discoverable matter. The in-

1122

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

formation sought need not be admissible at the trial if
the information sought appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
(2) Limitations.-By order or by local rule, the court
may alter the limits in these rules on the number of
depositions and interrogatories and may also limit the
length of depositions under Rule 30 and the number of
requests under Rule 36. The frequency or extent of use
of the discovery methods otherwise permitted under
these rules and by any local rule shall be limited by the
court if it determines that: (i) the discovery sought is
unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is obtainable
from some other source that is more convenient, less
burdensome, or less expensive; (ii) the party seeking discovery has had ample opportunity by discovery in the
action to obtain the information sought; or (iii) the burden or expense of the proposed discovery outweighs its
likely benefit, taking into account the needs of the case,
the amount in controversy, the parties' resources, the
importance of the issues at stake in the litigation, and
the importance of the proposed discovery in resolving
the issues. The court may act upon its own initiative
after reasonable notice or pursuant to a motion under
subdivision (c).
(4) Trial preparation:experts.
(A) A party may depose any person who has been
identified as an expert whose opinions may be presented at trial. If a report from the expert is required under subdivision (a)(2)(B), the deposition
shall not be conducted until after the report is
provided.
(B) A party may, through interrogatories or by
deposition, discover facts known or opinions held by
an expert who has been retained or specially employed by another party in anticipation of litigation
or preparation for trial and who is not expected to
be called as a witness at trial only as provided in

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

1123

Rule 35(b) or upon a showing of exceptional circumstances under which it is impracticable for the party
seeking discovery to obtain facts or opinions on the
same subject by other means.
(C) Unless manifest injustice would result, (i) the
court shall require that the party seeking discovery
pay the expert a reasonable fee for time spent in
responding to discovery under this subdivision; and
(ii) with respect to discovery obtained under subdivision (b)(4)(B) of this rule the court shall require
the party seeking discovery to pay the other party
a fair portion of the fees and expenses reasonably
incurred by the latter party in obtaining facts and
opinions from the expert.
(5) Claims of privilege or protection of trial preparationmaterials.-When a party withholds information
otherwise discoverable under these rules by claiming
that it is privileged or subject to protection as trial
preparation material, the party shall make the claim expressly and shall describe the nature of the documents,
communications, or things not produced or disclosed in
a manner that, without revealing information itself privileged or protected, will enable other parties to assess
the applicability of the privilege or protection.
(c) Protective orders.-Upon motion by a party or by the
person from whom discovery is sought, accompanied by a
certification that the movant has in good faith conferred or
attempted to confer with other affected parties in an effort
to resolve the dispute without court action, and for good
cause shown, the court in which the action is pending or alternatively, on matters relating to a deposition, the court in
the district where the deposition is to be taken may make
any order which justice requires to protect a party or person
from annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden or expense, including one or more of the following:
(1) that the disclosure or discovery not be had;

1124

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

(2) that the disclosure or discovery may be had only
on specified terms and conditions, including a designation of the time or place;
(3) that the discovery may be had only by a method
of discovery other than that selected by the party seeking discovery;
(4) that certain matters not be inquired into, or that
the scope of the disclosure or discovery be limited to
certain matters;
(5) that discovery be conducted with no one present
except persons designated by the court;
(6) that a deposition, after being sealed, be opened
only by order of the court;
(7) that a trade secret or other confidential research,
development, or commercial information not be revealed
or be revealed only in a designated way; and
(8) that the parties simultaneously file specified documents or information enclosed in sealed envelopes to be
opened as directed by the court.
If the motion for a protective order is denied in whole or in
part, the court may, on such terms and conditions as are just,
order that any party or other person provide or permit discovery. The provisions of Rule 37(a)(4) apply to the award
of expenses incurred in relation to the motion.
(d) Timing and sequence of discovery.-Except when authorized under these rules or by local rule, order, or agreement of the parties, a party may not seek discovery from any
source before the parties have met and conferred as required
by subdivision (f). Unless the court upon motion, for the
convenience of parties and witnesses and in the interests of
justice, orders otherwise, methods of discovery may be used
in any sequence, and the fact that a party is conducting discovery, whether by deposition or otherwise, shall not operate
to delay any other party's discovery.
(e) Supplementation of disclosures and responses.-A
party who has made a disclosure under subdivision (a) or
responded to a request for discovery with a disclosure or
response is under a duty to supplement or correct the disclo-

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

1125

sure or response to include information thereafter acquired
if ordered by the court or in the following circumstances:
(1) A party is under a duty to supplement at appropriate intervals its disclosures under subdivision (a) if
the party learns that in some material respect the information disclosed is incomplete or incorrect and if the
additional or corrective information has not otherwise
been made known to the other parties during the discovery process or in writing. With respect to testimony of
an expert from whom a report is required under subdivision (a)(2)(B) the duty extends both to information contained in the report and to information provided through
a deposition of the expert, and any additions or other
changes to this information shall be disclosed by the
time the party's disclosures under Rule 26(a)(3) are due.
(2) A party is under a duty seasonably to amend a
prior response to an interrogatory, request for production, or request for admission if the party learns that
the response is in some material respect incomplete or
incorrect and if the additional or corrective information
has not otherwise been made known to the other parties
during the discovery process or in writing.
(f) Meeting of parties;planning for discovery.-Except
in actions exempted by local rule or when otherwise ordered,
the parties shall, as soon as practicable and in any event at
least 14 days before a scheduling conference is held or a
scheduling order is due under Rule 16(b), meet to discuss
the nature and basis of their claims and defenses and
the possibilities for a prompt settlement or resolution of the
case, to make or arrange for the disclosures required by subdivision (a)(1), and to develop a proposed discovery plan.
The plan shall indicate the parties' views and proposals
concerning:
(1) what changes should be made in the timing, form,
or requirement for disclosures under subdivision (a) or
local rule, including a statement as to when disclosures
under subdivision (a)(1) were made or will be made;

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

(2) the subjects on which discovery may be needed,
when discovery should be completed, and whether discovery should be conducted in phases or be limited to or
focused upon particular issues;
(3) what changes should be made in the limitations on
discovery imposed under these rules or by local rule,
and what other limitations should be imposed; and
(4) any other orders that should be entered by the
court under subdivision (c) or under Rule 16(b) and (c).
The attorneys of record and all unrepresented parties that
have appeared in the case are jointly responsible for arranging and being present or represented at the meeting, for
attempting in good faith to agree on the proposed discovery
plan, and for submitting to the court within 10 days after the
meeting a written report outlining the plan.
(g) Signing of disclosures, discovery requests, responses,
and objections.
(1) Every disclosure made pursuant to subdivision
(a)(1) or subdivision (a)(3) shall be signed by at least
one attorney of record in the attorney's individual name,
whose address shall be stated. An unrepresented party
shall sign the disclosure and state the party's address.
The signature of the attorney or party constitutes a certification that to the best of the signer's knowledge, information, and belief, formed after a reasonable inquiry,
the disclosure is complete and correct as of the time it
is made.
(2) Every discovery request, response, or objection
made by a party represented by an attorney shall be
signed by at least one attorney of record in the attorney's individual name, whose address shall be stated.
An unrepresented party shall sign the request, response, or objection and state the party's address. The
signature of the attorney or party constitutes a certification that to the best of the signer's knowledge, information, and belief, formed after a reasonable inquiry, the
request, response, or objection is:

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

1127

(A) consistent with these rules and warranted by existing law or a good faith argument for the extension,
modification, or reversal of existing law;
(B) not interposed for any improper purpose, such as
to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation; and
(C) not unreasonable or unduly burdensome or expensive, given the needs of the case, the discovery already
had in the case, the amount in controversy, and the importance of the issues at stake in the litigation.
If a request, response, or objection is not signed, it shall be
stricken unless it is signed promptly after the omission is
called to the attention of the party making the request, response, or objection, and a party shall not be obligated to
take any action with respect to it until it is signed.
(3) If without substantial justification a certification
is made in violation of the rule, the court, upon motion
or upon its own initiative, shall impose upon the person
who made the certification, the party on whose behalf
the disclosure, request, response, or objection is made,
or both, an appropriate sanction, which may include an
order to pay the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred because of the violation, including a reasonable
attorney's fee.
Rule 28. Persons before whom depositions may be taken.
(b) In foreign countries.-Depositions may be taken in a
foreign country (1) pursuant to any applicable treaty or convention, or (2) pursuant to a letter of request (whether or not
captioned a letter rogatory), or (3) on notice before a person
authorized to administer oaths in the place where the examination is held, either by the law thereof or by the law of the
United States, or (4) before a person commissioned by the
court, and a person so commissioned shall have the power by
virtue of the commission to administer any necessary oath
and take testimony. A commission or a letter of request
shall be issued on application and notice and on terms that

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

are just and appropriate. It is not requisite to the issuance
of a commission or a letter of request that the taking of the
deposition in any other manner is impracticable or inconvenient; and both a commission and a letter of request may be
issued in proper cases. A notice or commission may designate the person before whom the deposition is to be taken
either by name or descriptive title. A letter of request may
be addressed "To the Appropriate Authority in [here name
the country]." When a letter of request or any other device
is used pursuant to any applicable treaty or convention, it
shall be captioned in the form prescribed by that treaty or
convention. Evidence obtained in response to a letter of request need not be excluded merely because it is not a verbatim transcript, because the testimony was not taken under
oath, or because of any similar departure from the requirements for depositions taken within the United States under
these rules.
Rule 29. Stipulations regarding discovery procedure.
Unless otherwise directed by the court, the parties may
by written stipulation (1) provide that depositions may be
taken before any person, at any time or place, upon any notice, and in any manner and when so taken may be used like
other depositions, and (2) modify other procedures governing
or limitations placed upon discovery, except that stipulations
extending the time provided in Rules 33, 34, and 36 for responses to discovery may, if they would interfere with any
time set for completion of discovery, for hearing of a motion,
or for trial, be made only with the approval of the court.
Rule 30. Depositions upon oral examination.
(a) When depositions may be taken; when leave required.
(1) A party may take the testimony of any person,
including a party, by deposition upon oral examination
without leave of court except as provided in paragraph
(2). The attendance of witnesses may be compelled by
subpoena as provided in Rule 45.

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

1129

(2) A party must obtain leave of court, which shall
be granted to the extent consistent with the principles
stated in Rule 26(b)(2), if the person to be examined is
confined in prison or if, without the written stipulation
of the parties,
(A) a proposed deposition would result in more than
ten depositions being taken under this rule or Rule 31
by the plaintiffs, or by the defendants, or by thirdparty defendants;
(B) the person to be examined already has been deposed in the case; or
(C) a party seeks to take a deposition before the time
specified in Rule 26(d) unless the notice contains a certification, with supporting facts, that the person to be
examined is expected to leave the United States and
be unavailable for examination in this country unless
deposed before that time.
(b) Notice of examination:general requirements;method
of recording; production of documents and things; deposition of organization;deposition by telephone.
(1) A party desiring to take the deposition of any person upon oral examination shall give reasonable notice
in writing to every other party to the action. The notice shall state the time and place for taking the deposition and the name and address of each person to be
examined, if known, and, if the name is not known, a
general description sufficient to identify the person or
the particular class or group to which the person belongs. If a subpoena duces tecum is to be served on the
person to be examined, the designation of the materials
to be produced as set forth in the subpoena shall be
attached to, or included in, the notice.
(2) The party taking the deposition shall state in the
notice the method by which the testimony shall be recorded. Unless the court orders otherwise, it may be
recorded by sound, sound-and-visual, or stenographic
means, and the party taking the deposition shall bear

1130

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

the cost of the recording. Any party may arrange for
a transcription to be made from the recording of a deposition taken by nonstenographic means.
(3) With prior notice to the deponent and other parties, any party may designate another method to record
the deponent's testimony in addition to the method specified by the person taking the deposition. The additional record or transcript shall be made at that party's
expense unless the court otherwise orders.
(4) Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, a deposition shall be conducted before an officer appointed or
designated under Rule 28 and shall begin with a statement on the record by the officer that includes (A) the
officer's name and business address; (B) the date, time,
and place of the deposition; (C) the name of the deponent; (D) the administration of the oath or affirmation
to the deponent; and (E) an identification of all persons
present. If the deposition is recorded other than stenographically, the officer shall repeat items (A) through (C)
at the beginning of each unit of recorded tape or other
recording medium. The appearance or demeanor of deponents or attorneys shall not be distorted through camera or sound-recording techniques. At the end of the
deposition, the officer shall state on the record that the
deposition is complete and shall set forth any stipulations made by counsel concerning the custody of the
transcript or recording and the exhibits, or concerning
other pertinent matters.
(7) The parties may stipulate in writing or the court
may upon motion order that a deposition be taken by
telephone or other remote electronic means. For the
purposes of this rule and Rules 28(a), 37(a)(1), and
37(b)(1), a deposition taken by such means is taken in
the district and at the place where the deponent is to
answer questions.
(c) Examination and cross-examination; record of
examination; oath; objections.-Examination and cross-

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

examination of witnesses may proceed as permitted at the
trial under the provisions of the Federal Rules of Evidence
except Rules 103 and 615. The officer before whom the
deposition is to be taken shall put the witness on oath or
affirmation and shall personally, or by someone acting under
the officer's direction and in the officer's presence, record
the testimony of the witness. The testimony shall be taken
stenographically or recorded by any other method authorized by subdivision (b)(2) of this rule. All objections made
at the time of the examination to the qualifications of the
officer taking the deposition, to the manner of taking it, to
the evidence presented, to the conduct of any party, or to
any other aspect of the proceedings shall be noted by the
officer upon the record of the deposition; but the examination
shall proceed, with the testimony being taken subject to the
objections. In lieu of participating in the oral examination,
parties may serve written questions in a sealed envelope on
the party taking the deposition and the party taking the
deposition shall transmit them to the officer, who shall propound them to the witness and record the answers verbatim.
(d) Schedule and duration;motion to terminate or limit
examination.
(1) Any objection to evidence during a deposition
shall be stated concisely and in a non-argumentative and
non-suggestive manner. A party may instruct a deponent not to answer only when necessary to preserve a
privilege, to enforce a limitation on evidence directed by
the court, or to present a motion under paragraph (3).
(2) By order or local rule, the court may limit the time
permitted for the conduct of a deposition, but shall allow
additional time consistent with Rule 26(b)(2) if needed
for a fair examination of the deponent or if the deponent
or another party impedes or delays the examination. If
the court finds such an impediment, delay, or other
conduct that has frustrated the fair examination of the
deponent, it may impose upon the persons responsible
an appropriate sanction, including the reasonable costs

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

and attorney's fees incurred by any parties as a result
thereof.
(3) At any time during a deposition, on motion of a
party or of the deponent and upon a showing that the
examination is being conducted in bad faith or in such
manner as unreasonably to annoy, embarrass, or oppress
the deponent or party, the court in which the action is
pending or the court in the district where the deposition
is being taken may order the officer conducting the examination to cease forthwith from taking the deposition,
or may limit the scope and manner of the taking of the
deposition as provided in Rule 26(c). If the order made
terminates the examination, it shall be resumed thereafter only upon the order of the court in which the action
is pending. Upon demand of the objecting party or deponent, the taking of the deposition shall be suspended
for the time necessary to make a motion for an order.
The provisions of Rule 37(a)(4) apply to the award of
expenses incurred in relation to the motion.
(e) Review by witness; changes;signing.-If requested by
the deponent or a party before completion of the deposition,
the deponent shall have 30 days after being notified by the
officer that the transcript or recording is available in which
to review the transcript or recording and, if there are
changes in form or substance, to sign a statement reciting
such changes and the reasons given by the deponent for
making them. The officer shall indicate in the certificate
prescribed by subdivision (f)(1) whether any review was
requested and, if so, shall append any changes made by the
deponent during the period allowed.
(f) Certification and filing by officer; exhibits; copies;
notice offiling.
(1) The officer shall certify that the witness was duly
sworn by the officer and that the deposition is a true
record of the testimony given by the witness. This certificate shall be in writing and accompany the record of
the deposition. Unless otherwise ordered by the court,

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

the officer shall securely seal the deposition in an envelope or package indorsed with the title of the action and
marked "Deposition of [here insert name of witness]"
and shall promptly file it with the court in which the
action is pending or send it to the attorney who arranged for the transcript or recording, who shall store
it under conditions that will protect it against loss, destruction, tampering, or deterioration. Documents and
things produced for inspection during the examination
of the witness, shall, upon the request of a party, be
marked for identification and annexed to the deposition
and may be inspected and copied by any party, except
that if the person producing the materials desires to retain them the person may (A) offer copies to be marked
for identification and annexed to the deposition and to
serve thereafter as originals if the person affords to all
parties fair opportunity to verify the copies by comparison with the originals, or (B) offer the originals to be
marked for identification, after giving to each party an
opportunity to inspect and copy them, in which event
the materials may then be used in the same manner as
if annexed to the deposition. Any party may move for
an order that the original be annexed to and returned
with the deposition to the court, pending final disposition of the case.
(2) Unless otherwise ordered by the court or agreed
by the parties, the officer shall retain stenographic notes
of any deposition taken stenographically or a copy of the
recording of any deposition taken by another method.
Upon payment of reasonable charges therefor, the officer shall furnish a copy of the transcript or other recording of the deposition to any party or to the deponent.
Rule 31. Depositions upon written questions.
(a) Serving questions; notice.
(1) A party may take the testimony of any person,
including a party, by deposition upon written questions

1134

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

without leave of court except as provided in paragraph
(2). The attendance of witnesses may be compelled by
the use of subpoena as provided in Rule 45.
(2) A party must obtain leave of court, which shall
be granted to the extent consistent with the principles
stated in Rule 26(b)(2), if the person to be examined is
confined in prison or if, without the written stipulation
of the parties,
(A) a proposed deposition would result in more than
ten depositions being taken under this rule or Rule 30
by the plaintiffs, or by the defendants, or by thirdparty defendants;
(B) the person to be examined has already been deposed in the case; or
(C) a party seeks to take a deposition before the time
specified in Rule 26(d).
(3) A party desiring to take a deposition upon written
questions shall serve them upon every other party with
a notice stating (1) the name and address of the person
who is to answer them, if known, and if the name is not
known, a general description sufficient to identify the
person or the particular class or group to which the person belongs, and (2) the name or descriptive title and
address of the officer before whom the deposition is to
be taken. A deposition upon written questions may be
taken of a public or private corporation or a partnership
or association or governmental agency in accordance
with the provisions of Rule 30(b)(6).
(4) Within 14 days after the notice and written questions are served, a party may serve cross questions upon
all other parties. Within 7 days after being served with
cross questions, a party may serve redirect questions
upon all other parties. Within 7 days after being
served with redirect questions, a party may serve recross questions upon all other parties. The court may
for cause shown enlarge or shorten the time.

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

1135

Rule 32. Use of depositions in court proceedings.
(a) Use of depositions.
(3) The deposition of a witness, whether or not a
party, may be used by any party for any purpose if the
court finds:
(A) that the witness is dead; or
(B) that the witness is at a greater distance than 100
miles from the place of trial or hearing, or is out of the
United States, unless it appears that the absence of the
witness was procured by the party offering the deposition; or
(C) that the witness is unable to attend or testify because of age, illness, infirmity, or imprisonment; or
(D) that the party offering the deposition has been
unable to procure the attendance of the witness by subpoena; or
(E) upon application and notice, that such exceptional
circumstances exist as to make it desirable, in the interest of justice and with due regard to the importance of
presenting the testimony of witnesses orally in open
court, to allow the deposition to be used.
A deposition taken without leave of court pursuant to a notice under Rule 30(a)(2)(C) shall not be used against a party
who demonstrates that, when served with the notice, it was
unable through the exercise of diligence to obtain counsel to
represent it at the taking of the deposition; nor shall a
deposition be used against a party who, having received less
than 11 days notice of a deposition, has promptly upon receiving such notice filed a motion for a protective order under
Rule 26(c)(2) requesting that the deposition not be held or be
held at a different time or place and such motion is pending
at the time the deposition is held.
(c) Form of presentation.-Exceptas otherwise directed
by the court, a party offering deposition testimony pursuant
to this rule may offer it in stenographic or nonstenographic

1136

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

form, but, if in nonstenographic form, the party shall also
provide the court with a transcript of the portions so offered.
On request of any party in a case tried before a jury, deposition testimony offered other than for impeachment purposes
shall be presented in nonstenographic form, if available, unless the court for good cause orders otherwise.
Rule 33. Interrogatoriesto parties.
(a) Availability.-Without leave of court or written stipulation, any party may serve upon any other party written
interrogatories, not exceeding 25 in number including all discrete subparts, to be answered by the party served or, if the
party served is a public or private corporation or a partnership or association or governmental agency, by any officer or
agent, who shall furnish such information as is available to
the party. Leave to serve additional interrogatories shall
be granted to the extent consistent with the principles of
Rule 26(b)(2). Without leave of court or written stipulation,
interrogatories may not be served before the time specified
in Rule 26(d).
(b) Answers and objections.
(1) Each interrogatory shall be answered separately
and fully in writing under oath, unless it is objected to,
in which event the objecting party shall state the reasons for objection and shall answer to the extent the
interrogatory is not objectionable.
(2) The answers are to be signed by the person making them, and the objections signed by the attorney
making them.
(3) The party upon whom the interrogatories have
been served shall serve a copy of the answers, and objections if any, within 30 days after the service of the interrogatories. A shorter or longer time may be directed
by the court or, in the absence of such an order, agreed
to in writing by the parties subject to Rule 29.
(4) All grounds for an objection to an interrogatory
shall be stated with specificity. Any ground not stated

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

in a timely objection is waived unless the party's failure
to object is excused by the court for good cause shown.
(5) The party submitting the interrogatories may
move for an order under Rule 37(a) with respect to any
objection to or other failure to answer an interrogatory.
(c) Scope; use at trial.-Interrogatories may relate to any
matters which can be inquired into under Rule 26(b)(1), and
the answers may be used to the extent permitted by the
rules of evidence.
An interrogatory otherwise proper is not necessarily objectionable merely because an answer to the interrogatory
involves an opinion or contention that relates to fact or the
application of law to fact, but the court may order that such
an interrogatory need not be answered until after designated
discovery has been completed or until a pre-trial conference
or other later time.
(d) Option to produce business records.
Rule 34. Production of documents and things and entry
upon land for inspection and other purposes.
(b) Procedure.-Therequest shall set forth, either by individual item or by category, the items to be inspected, and
describe each with reasonable particularity. The request
shall specify a reasonable time, place, and manner of making
the inspection and performing the related acts. Without
leave of court or written stipulation, a request may not be
served before the time specified in Rule 26(d).
The party upon whom the request is served shall serve
a written response within 30 days after the service of the
request. A shorter or longer time may be directed by the
court or, in the absence of such an order, agreed to in writing
by the parties, subject to Rule 29. The response shall state,
with respect to each item or category, that inspection and
related activities will be permitted as requested, unless the
request is objected to, in which event the reasons for the
objection shall be stated. If objection is made to part of an

1138

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

item or category, the part shall be specified and inspection
permitted of the remaining parts. The party submitting the
request may move for an order under Rule 37(a) with respect
to any objection to or other failure to respond to the request
or any part thereof, or any failure to permit inspection as
requested.
A party who produces documents for inspection shall
produce them as they are kept in the usual course of business
or shall organize and label them to correspond with the categories in the request.
Rule 36. Requests for admission.
(a) Request for admission.-A party may serve upon any
other party a written request for the admission, for purposes
of the pending action only, of the truth of any matters within
the scope of Rule 26(b)(1) set forth in the request that relate
to statements or opinions of fact or of the application of
law to fact, including the genuineness of any documents described in the request. Copies of documents shall be served
with the request unless they have been or are otherwise furnished or made available for inspection and copying. Without leave of court or written stipulation, requests for admission may not be served before the time specified in Rule
26(d).
Each matter of which an admission is requested shall be
separately set forth. The matter is admitted unless, within
30 days after service of the request, or within such shorter
or longer time as the court may allow or as the parties may
agree to in writing, subject to Rule 29, the party to whom
the request is directed serves upon the party requesting the
admission a written answer or objection addressed to the
matter, signed by the party or by the party's attorney. If
objection is made, the reasons therefor shall be stated. The
answer shall specifically deny the matter or set forth in detail the reasons why the answering party cannot truthfully
admit or deny the matter. A denial shall fairly meet the
substance of the requested admission, and when good faith

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

requires that a party qualify an answer or deny only a part
of the matter of which an admission is requested, the party
shall specify so much of it as is true and qualify or deny
the remainder. An answering party may not give lack of
information or knowledge as a reason for failure to admit or
deny unless the party states that the party has made reasonable inquiry and that the information known or readily obtainable by the party is insufficient to enable the party to
admit or deny. A party who considers that a matter of
which an admission has been requested presents a genuine
issue for trial may not, on that ground alone, object to the
request; the party may, subject to the provisions of Rule
37(c), deny the matter or set forth reasons why the party
cannot admit or deny it.
Rule 37. Failureto make disclosure or cooperate in discovery: sanctions.
(a) Motion for order compelling disclosure or discovery.-A party, upon reasonable notice to other parties and all
persons affected thereby, may apply for an order compelling
disclosure or discovery as follows:
(1) Appropriate court.-An application for an order
to a party shall be made to the court in which the action
is pending. An application for an order to a person who
is not a party shall be made to the court in the district
where the discovery is being, or is to be, taken.
(2) Motion.
(A) If a party fails to make a disclosure required
by Rule 26(a), any other party may move to compel
disclosure and for appropriate sanctions. The motion must include a certification that the movant has
in good faith conferred or attempted to confer with
the party not making the disclosure in an effort to
secure the disclosure without court action.
(B) If a deponent fails to answer a question propounded or submitted under Rules 30 or 31, or a
corporation or other entity fails to make a designa-

1140

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

tion under Rule 30(b)(6) or 31(a), or a party fails to
answer an interrogatory submitted under Rule 33,
or if a party, in response to a request for inspection
submitted under Rule 34, fails to respond that inspection will be permitted as requested or fails to
permit inspection as requested, the discovering
party may move for an order compelling an answer,
or a designation, or an order compelling inspection
in accordance with the request. The motion must
include a certification that the movant has in good
faith conferred or attempted to confer with the person or party failing to make the discovery in an effort to secure the information or material without
court action. When taking a deposition on oral examination, the proponent of the question may complete or adjourn the examination before applying
for an order.
(3) Evasive or incomplete disclosure, answer, or
response.-For purposes of this subdivision an evasive
or incomplete disclosure, answer, or response is to be
treated as a failure to disclose, answer, or respond.
(4) Expenses and sanctions.
(A) If the motion is granted or if the disclosure
or requested discovery is provided after the motion
was filed, the court shall, after affording an opportunity to be heard, require the party or deponent
whose conduct necessitated the motion or the party
or attorney advising such conduct or both of them
to pay to the moving party the reasonable expenses
incurred in making the motion, including attorney's
fees, unless the court finds that the motion was filed
without the movant's first making a good faith effort
to obtain the disclosure or discovery without court
action, or that the opposing party's nondisclosure,
response, or objection was substantially justified,
or that other circumstances make an award of expenses unjust.

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

(B) If the motion is denied, the court may enter
any protective order authorized under Rule 26(c)
and shall, after affording an opportunity to be
heard, require the moving party or the attorney filing the motion or both of them to pay to the party
or deponent who opposed the motion the reasonable
expenses incurred in opposing the motion, including
attorney's fees, unless the court finds that the making of the motion was substantially justified or that
other circumstances make an award of expenses
unjust.
(C) If the motion is granted in part and denied
in part, the court may enter any protective order
authorized under Rule 26(c) and may, after affording an opportunity to be heard, apportion the reasonable expenses incurred in relation to the motion
among the parties and persons in a just manner.
(c) Failure to disclose; false or misleading disclosure;
refusal to admit.
(1) A party that without substantial justification fails
to disclose information required by Rule 26(a) or 26(e)(1)
shall not, unless such failure is harmless, be permitted
to use as evidence at a trial, at a hearing, or on a motion
any witness or information not so disclosed. In addition
to or in lieu of this sanction, the court, on motion and
after affording an opportunity to be heard, may impose
other appropriate sanctions. In addition to requiring
payment of reasonable expenses, including attorney's
fees, caused by the failure, these sanctions may include
any of the actions authorized under subparagraphs (A),
(B), and (C) of subdivision (b)(2) of this rule and may
include informing the jury of the failure to make the
disclosure.
(2) If a party fails to admit the genuineness of any
document or the truth of any matter as requested under
Rule 36, and if the party requesting the admissions
thereafter proves the genuineness of the document or

1142

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

the truth of the matter, the requesting party may apply
to the court for an order requiring the other party to
pay the reasonable expenses incurred in making that
proof, including reasonable attorney's fees. The court
shall make the order unless it finds that (A) the request
was held objectionable pursuant to Rule 36(a), or (B) the
admission sought was of no substantial importance, or
(C) the party failing to admit had reasonable ground to
believe that the party might prevail on the matter, or
(D) there was other good reason for the failure to admit.
(d) Failure of party to attend at own deposition or serve
answers to interrogatoriesor respond to requestfor inspection.-If a party or an officer, director, or managing agent of
a party or a person designated under Rule 30(b)(6) or 31(a)
to testify on behalf of a party fails (1) to appear before the
officer who is to take the deposition, after being served with
a proper notice, or (2) to serve answers or objections to interrogatories submitted under Rule 33, after proper service of
the interrogatories, or (3) to serve a written response to a
request for inspection submitted under Rule 34, after proper
service of the request, the court in which the action is pending on motion may make such orders in regard to the failure
as are just, and among others it may take any action authorized under subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of subdivision
(b)(2) of this rule. Any motion specifying a failure under
clause (2) or (3) of this subdivision shall include a certification
that the movant has in good faith conferred or attempted to
confer with the party failing to answer or respond in an effort to obtain such answer or response without court action.
In lieu of any order or in addition thereto, the court shall
require the party failing to act or the attorney advising that
party or both to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, caused by the failure unless the court finds that
the failure was substantially justified or that other circumstances make an award of expenses unjust.
The failure to act described in this subdivision may not be
excused on the ground that the discovery sought is objection-

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

able unless the party failing to act has a pending motion for
a protective order as provided by Rule 26(c).
(g) Failure to participate in the framing of a discovery
plan.-If a party or a party's attorney fails to participate in
good faith in the development and submission of a proposed
discovery plan as required by Rule 26(f), the court may, after
opportunity for hearing, require such party or attorney to
pay to any other party the reasonable expenses, including
attorney's fees, caused by the failure.
Rule 38. Jury trial of right.
(b) Demand.-Any party may demand a trial by jury of
any issue triable of right by a jury by (1) serving upon the
other parties a demand therefor in writing at any time after
the commencement of the action and not later than 10 days
after the service of the last pleading directed to such issue,
and (2) filing the demand as required by Rule 5(d). Such
demand may be indorsed upon a pleading of the party.
(d) Waiver.-The failure of a party to serve and file a demand as required by this rule constitutes a waiver by the
party of trial by jury. A demand for trial by jury made as
herein provided may not be withdrawn without the consent
of the parties.
Rule 50. Judgment as a matter of law in actions tried by
jury; alternative motion for new trial; conditional
rulings.
(a) Judgment as a matter of law.
(1) If during a trial by jury a party has been fully
heard on an issue and there is no legally sufficient evidentiary basis for a reasonable jury to find for that party
on that issue, the court may determine the issue against
that party and may grant a motion for judgment as a
matter of law against that party with respect to a claim
or defense that cannot under the controlling law be

1144

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

maintained or defeated without a favorable finding on
that issue.
Rule 52. Findings by the court; judgment on partial
findings.
(c) Judgment on partialfindings.-If during a trial without a jury a party has been fully heard on an issue and the
court finds against the party on that issue, the court may
enter judgment as a matter of law against that party with
respect to a claim or defense that cannot under the controlling law be maintained or defeated without a favorable finding on that issue, or the court may decline to render any
judgment until the close of all the evidence. Such a judgment shall be supported by findings of fact and conclusions
of law as required by subdivision (a) of this rule.
Rule 53. Masters.
(a) Appointment and compensation.-The court in which
any action is pending may appoint a special master therein.
As used in these rules, the word "master" includes a referee,
an auditor, an examiner, and an assessor. The compensation
to be allowed to a master shall be fixed by the court, and
shall be charged upon such of the parties or paid out of any
fund or subject matter of the action, which is in the custody
and control of the court as the court may direct; provided
that this provision for compensation shall not apply when a
United States magistrate judge is designated to serve as a
master. The master shall not retain the master's report as
security for the master's compensation; but when the party
ordered to pay the compensation allowed by the court does
not pay it after notice and within the time prescribed by the
court, the master is entitled to a writ of execution against
the delinquent party.
(b) Reference.-A reference to a master shall be the exception and not the rule. In actions to be tried by a jury,
a reference shall be made only when the issues are complicated; in actions to be tried without a jury, save in matters

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

of account and of difficult computation of damages, a reference shall be made only upon a showing that some exceptional condition requires it. Upon the consent of the parties,
a magistrate judge may be designated to serve as a special
master without regard to the provisions of this subdivision.
(f) Application to magistrate judge.-A magistrate
judge is subject to this rule only when the order referring
a matter to the magistrate judge expressly provides that
the reference is made under this rule.
Rule 54. Judgments; costs.
(d) Costs; attorneys'fees.
(1) Costs other than attorneys' fees.-Except when
express provision therefor is made either in a statute
of the United States or in these rules, costs other than
attorneys' fees shall be allowed as of course to the prevailing party unless the court otherwise directs; but
costs against the United States, its officers, and agencies
shall be imposed only to the extent permitted by law.
Such costs may be taxed by the clerk on one day's notice.
On motion served within 5 days thereafter, the action of
the clerk may be reviewed by the court.
(2) Attorneys'fees.
(A) Claims for attorneys' fees and related nontaxable expenses shall be made by motion unless
the substantive law governing the action provides
for the recovery of such fees as an element of damages to be proved at trial.
(B) Unless otherwise provided by statute or
order of the court, the motion must be filed and
served no later than 14 days after entry of judgment; must specify the judgment and the statute,
rule, or other grounds entitling the moving party to
the award; and must state the amount or provide a
fair estimate of the amount sought. If directed by
the court, the motion shall also disclose the terms

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

of any agreement with respect to fees to be paid for
the services for which claim is made.
(C) On request of a party or class member, the
court shall afford an opportunity for adversary submissions with respect to the motion in accordance
with Rule 43(e) or Rule 78. The court may determine issues of liability for fees before receiving submissions bearing on issues of evaluation of services
for which liability is imposed by the court. The
court shall find the facts and state its conclusions of
law as provided in Rule 52(a), and a judgment shall
be set forth in a separate document as provided in
Rule 58.
(D) By local rule the court may establish special
procedures by which issues relating to such fees
may be resolved without extensive evidentiary
hearings. In addition, the court may refer issues
relating to the value of services to a special master
under Rule 53 without regard to the provisions of
subdivision (b) thereof and may refer a motion for
attorneys' fees to a magistrate judge under Rule
72(b) as if it were a dispositive pretrial matter.
(E) The provisions of subparagraphs (A) through
(D) do not apply to claims for fees and expenses as
sanctions for violations of these rules or under 28
U. S. C. § 1927.
Rule 58. Entry of judgment.
Subject to the provisions of Rule 54(b): (1) upon a general
verdict of a jury, or upon a decision by the court that a party
shall recover only a sum certain or costs or that all relief
shall be denied, the clerk, unless the court otherwise orders,
shall forthwith prepare, sign, and enter the judgment without awaiting any direction by the court; (2) upon a decision
by the court granting other relief, or upon a special verdict
or a general verdict accompanied by answers to interrogatories, the court shall promptly approve the form of the
judgment, and the clerk shall thereupon enter it. Every

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

judgment shall be set forth on a separate document. A
judgment is effective only when so set forth and when entered as provided in Rule 79(a). Entry of the judgment
shall not be delayed, nor the time for appeal extended, in
order to tax costs or award fees, except that, when a timely
motion for attorneys' fees is made under Rule 54(d)(2), the
court, before a notice of appeal has been filed and has become
effective, may order that the motion have the same effect
under Rule 4(a)(4) of the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure as a timely motion under Rule 59. Attorneys shall not
submit forms of judgment except upon direction of the court,
and these directions shall not be given as a matter of course.
Rule 71A. Condemnation of property.
(d) Process.
(3) Service of notice.
(A) Personal service.-Personal service of the
notice (but without copies of the complaint) shall be
made in accordance with Rule 4 upon a defendant
whose residence is known and who resides within
the United States or a territory subject to the administrative or judicial jurisdiction of the United
States.
(B) Service by publication.
(4) Return; amendment.-Proof of service of the notice shall be made and amendment of the notice or proof
of its service allowed in the manner provided for the
return and amendment of the summons under Rule 4.
Rule 72. Magistratejudges; pretrialorders.
(a) Nondispositive matters.-A magistrate judge to whom
a pretrial matter not dispositive of a claim or defense of a
party is referred to hear and determine shall promptly conduct such proceedings as are required and when appropriate

1148

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

enter into the record a written order setting forth the disposition of the matter. Within 10 days after being served with
a copy of the magistrate judge's order, a party may serve
and file objections to the order; a party may not thereafter
assign as error a defect in the magistrate judge's order to
which objection was not timely made. The district judge to
whom the case is assigned shall consider such objections and
shall modify or set aside any portion of the magistrate
judge's order found to be clearly erroneous or contrary to
law.
(b) Dispositive motions and prisonerpetitions.-A magistrate judge assigned without consent of the parties to hear
a pretrial matter dispositive of a claim or defense of a party
or a prisoner petition challenging the conditions of confinement shall promptly conduct such proceedings as are required. A record shall be made of all evidentiary proceedings before the magistrate judge, and a record may be made
of such other proceedings as the magistrate judge deems
necessary. The magistrate judge shall enter into the record
a recommendation for disposition of the matter, including
proposed findings of fact when appropriate. The clerk shall
forthwith mail copies to all parties.
A party objecting to the recommended disposition of the
matter shall promptly arrange for the transcription of the
record, or portions of it as all parties may agree upon or the
magistrate judge deems sufficient, unless the district judge
otherwise directs. Within 10 days after being served with
a copy of the recommended disposition, a party may serve
and file specific, written objections to the proposed findings
and recommendations. A party may respond to another
party's objections within 10 days after being served with a
copy thereof. The district judge to whom the case is assigned shall make a de novo determination upon the record,
or after additional evidence, of any portion of the magistrate
judge's disposition to which specific written objection has
been made in accordance with this rule. The district judge
may accept, reject, or modify the recommended decision, re-

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

1149

ceive further evidence, or recommit the matter to the magistrate judge with instructions.
Rule 73. Magistrate judges; trial by consent and appeal
options.
(a) Powers; procedure.-When specially designated to exercise such jurisdiction by local rule or order of the district
court and when all parties consent thereto, a magistrate
judge may exercise the authority provided by Title 28,
U. S. C. § 636(c) and may conduct any or all proceedings,
including a jury or nonjury trial, in a civil case. A record
of the proceedings shall be made in accordance with the
requirements of Title 28, U. S. C. § 636(c)(7).
(b) Consent.-When a magistrate judge has been designated to exercise civil trial jurisdiction, the clerk shall give
written notice to the parties of their opportunity to consent
to the exercise by a magistrate judge of civil jurisdiction
over the case, as authorized by Title 28, U. S. C. § 636(c). If,
within the period specified by local rule, the parties agree to
a magistrate judge's exercise of such authority, they shall
execute and file a joint form of consent or separate forms of
consent setting forth such election.
A district judge, magistrate judge, or other court official
may again advise the parties of the availability of the magistrate judge, but, in so doing, shall also advise the parties
that they are free to withhold consent without adverse substantive consequences. A district judge or magistrate judge
shall not be informed of a party's response to the clerk's notification, unless all parties have consented to the referral of
the matter to a magistrate judge.
The district judge, for good cause shown on the judge's
own initiative, or under extraordinary circumstances shown
by a party, may vacate a reference of a civil matter to a
magistrate judge under this subdivision.
(c) Normal appeal route.-In accordance with Title 28,
U. S. C. § 636(c)(3), unless the parties otherwise agree to the
optional appeal route provided for in subdivision (d) of this
rule, appeal from a judgment entered upon direction of a

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

magistrate judge in proceedings under this rule will lie to
the court of appeals as it would from a judgment of the district court.
(d) Optional appeal route.-In accordance with Title 28,
U. S. C. § 636(c)(4), at the time of reference to a magistrate
judge, the parties may consent to appeal on the record to a
district judge of the court and thereafter, by petition only,
to the court of appeals.
Rule 74. Method of appealfrom magistratejudge to district
judge under Title 28, U S. C. § 636(c) (4) and Rule 73(d).
(a) When taken.-When the parties have elected under
Rule 73(d) to proceed by appeal to a district judge from an
appealable decision made by a magistrate judge under the
consent provisions of Title 28, U. S. C. § 636(c)(4), an appeal
may be taken from the decision of a magistrate judge by
filing with the clerk of the district court a notice of appeal
within 30 days of the date of entry of the judgment appealed
from; but if the United States or an officer or agency thereof
is a party, the notice of appeal may be filed by any party
within 60 days of such entry. If a timely notice of appeal is
filed by a party, any other party may file a notice of appeal
within 14 days thereafter, or within the time otherwise prescribed by this subdivision, whichever period last expires.
The running of the time for filing a notice of appeal is
terminated as to all parties by the timely filing of any of the
following motions with the magistrate judge by any party,
and the full time for appeal from the judgment entered by
the magistrate judge commences to run anew from entry of
any of the following orders: (1) granting or denying a motion
for judgment under Rule 50(b); (2) granting or denying a
motion under Rule 52(b) to amend or make additional findings of fact, whether or not an alteration of the judgment
would be required if the motion is granted; (3) granting or
denying a motion under Rule 59 to alter or amend the judgment; (4) denying a motion for a new trial under Rule 59.
An interlocutory decision or order by a magistrate judge
which, if made by a district judge, could be appealed under

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

any provision of law, may be appealed to a district judge by
filing a notice of appeal within 15 days after entry of the
decision or order, provided the parties have elected to appeal
to a district judge under Rule 73(d). An appeal of such interlocutory decision or order shall not stay the proceedings
before the magistrate judge unless the magistrate judge or
district judge shall so order.
Upon a showing of excusable neglect, the magistrate judge
may extend the time for filing a notice of appeal upon motion
filed not later than 20 days after the expiration of the time
otherwise prescribed by this rule.
(c) Stay pending appeal.-Upona showing that the magistrate judge has refused or otherwise failed to stay the judgment pending appeal to the district judge under Rule 73(d),
the appellant may make application for a stay to the district
judge with reasonable notice to all parties. The stay may
be conditioned upon the filing in the district court of a bond
or other appropriate security.
Rule 75. Proceedings on appeal from magistrate judge to
districtjudge under Rule 73(d).
(b) Record on appeal.
(1) Composition.-The original papers and exhibits
filed with the clerk of the district court, the transcript
of the proceedings, if any, and the docket entries shall
constitute the record on appeal. In lieu of this record
the parties, within 10 days after the filing of the notice
of appeal, may file a joint statement of the case showing
how the issues presented by the appeal arose and were
decided by the magistrate judge, and setting forth only
so many of the facts averred and proved or sought to
be proved as are essential to a decision of the issues
presented.
(2) Transcript.-Within10 days after filing the notice
of appeal the appellant shall make arrangements for the

1152

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

production of a transcript of such parts of the proceedings as the appellant deems necessary. Unless the entire transcript is to be included, the appellant, within
the time provided above, shall serve on the appellee and
file with the court a description of the parts of the transcript which the appellant intends to present on the appeal. If the appellee deems a transcript of other parts
of the proceedings to be necessary, within 10 days after
the service of the statement of the appellant, the appellee shall serve on the appellant and file with the court
a designation of additional parts to be included. The
appellant shall promptly make arrangements for the
inclusion of all such parts unless the magistrate judge,
upon motion, exempts the appellant from providing certain parts, in which case the appellee may provide for
their transcription.
(3) Statement in lieu of transcript.-If no record of
the proceedings is available for transcription, the parties
shall, within 10 days after the filing of the notice of
appeal, file a statement of the evidence from the best
available means to be submitted in lieu of the transcript.
If the parties cannot agree they shall submit a statement of their differences to the magistrate judge for
settlement.
Rule 76. Judgment of the districtjudge on the appeal under
Rule 73(d) and costs.
(a) Entry of judgment.-When the parties have elected
under Rule 73(d) to appeal from a judgment of the magistrate judge to a district judge, the clerk shall prepare, sign,
and enter judgment in accordance with the order or decision
of the district judge following an appeal from a judgment of
the magistrate judge, unless the district judge directs otherwise. The clerk shall mail to all parties a copy of the order
or decision of the district judge.

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

1153

(c) Costs.-Except as otherwise provided by law or ordered by the district judge, costs shall be taxed against the
losing party; if a judgment of the magistrate judge is affirmed in part or reversed in part, or is vacated, costs shall
be allowed only as ordered by the district judge. The cost
of the transcript, if necessary for the determination of the
appeal, and the premiums paid for bonds to preserve rights
pending appeal shall be taxed as costs by the clerk.

1154

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

APPENDIX OF FORMS
FORM

1A.

NOTICE OF LAWSUIT AND REQUEST FOR WAIVER OF SERVICE
OF SUMMONS

TO:

(A)
[as
(B)
of
(C)
A lawsuit has been commenced against you (or the entity on whose
behalf you are addressed). A copy of the complaint is attached to this
notice. It has been filed in the United States District Court for the
(D)
and has been assigned docket number
(E)

This is not a formal summons or notification from the court, but rather
my request that you sign and return the enclosed waiver of service in
order to save the cost of serving you with a judicial summons and an
additional copy of the complaint. The cost of service will be avoided if I
receive a signed copy of the waiver within
(F)
days after
the date designated below as the date on which this Notice and Request
is sent. I enclose a stamped and addressed envelope (or other means of
cost-free return) for your use. An extra copy of the waiver is also
attached for your records.
If you comply with this request and return the signed waiver, it will be
filed with the court and no summons will be served on you. The action
will then proceed as if you had been served on the date the waiver is filed,
except that you will not be obligated to answer the complaint before 60
days from the date designated below as the date on which this notice is
sent (or before 90 days from that date if your address is not in any judicial
district of the United States).
If you do not return the signed waiver within the time indicated, I will
take appropriate steps to effect formal service in a manner authorized by
the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and will then, to the extent authorized by those Rules, ask the court to require you (or the party on whose
behalf you are addressed) to pay the full costs of such service. In that
connection, please read the statement concerning the duty of parties to
waive the service of the summons, which is set forth on the reverse side
(or at the foot) of the waiver form.
I affirm that this request is being sent to you on behalf of the plaintiff,
this

day of

,

Signature of Plaintiff's Attorney or
Unrepresented Plaintiff

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

1155

Notes:
A-Name of individual defendant (or name of officer or agent of corporate defendant)
B-Title, or other relationship of individual to corporate defendant
C-Name of corporate defendant, if any
D-District
E-Docket number of action
F-Addressee must be given at least 30 days (60 days if located in foreign country) in which to return waiver
FORM lB. WAIVER OF SERVICE OF SUMMONS
TO:

(name of plaintiff's attorney or unrepresented plaintiff)

I acknowledge receipt of your request that I waive service of a summons
in the action of

I (caption of action)

which is case number
(docket number)
in the United States District
Court for the
(district)
. I have also received a copy of the complaint in the action, two copies of this instrument, and a means by which
I can return the signed waiver to you without cost to me.
I agree to save the cost of service of a summons and an additional copy
of the complaint in this lawsuit by not requiring that I (or the entity on
whose behalf I am acting) be served with judicial process in the manner
provided by Rule 4.
I (or the entity on whose behalf I am acting) will retain all defenses or
objections to the lawsuit or to the jurisdiction or venue of the court except
for objections based on a defect in the summons or in the service of the
summons.
I understand that a judgment may be entered against me (or the party
on whose behalf I am acting) if an answer or motion under Rule 12 is not
served upon you within 60 days after

(date request was sent)

, or within

90 days after that date if the request was sent outside the United States.
Date

Signature
Printed/typedname:

[as
[of

]

To be printed on reverse side of the waiverform or set forth at the foot
of the form:
Duty to Avoid Unnecessary Costs of Service of Summons
Rule 4 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure requires certain parties
to cooperate in saving unnecessary costs of service of the summons and
complaint. A defendant located in the United States who, after being

1156

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

notified of an action and asked by a plaintiff located in the United States
to waive service of a summons, fails to do so will be required to bear the
cost of such service unless good cause be shown for its failure to sign and
return the waiver.
It is not good cause for a failure to waive service that a party believes
that the complaint is unfounded, or that the action has been brought in an
improper place or in a court that lacks jurisdiction over the subject matter
of the action or over its person or property. A party who waives service
of the summons retains all defenses and objections (except any relating to
the summons or to the service of the summons), and may later object to
the jurisdiction of the court or to the place where the action has been
brought.
A defendant who waives service must within the time specified on the
waiver form serve on the plaintiff's attorney (or unrepresented plaintiff)
a response to the complaint and must also file a signed copy of the response with the court. If the answer or motion is not served within this
time, a default judgment may be taken against that defendant. By waiving service, a defendant is allowed more time to answer than if the summons had been actually served when the request for waiver of service
was received.
FORM 2. ALLEGATION OF JURISDICTION

(a) Jurisdiction founded on diversity of citizenship and amount.
Plaintiff is a [citizen of the State of Connecticut]' [corporation incorporated under the laws of the State of Connecticut having its principal place
of business in the State of Connecticut] and defendant is a corporation
incorporated under the laws of the State of New York having its principal
place of business in a State other than the State of Connecticut. The
matter in controversy exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum of
fifty thousand dollars.
(b) Jurisdiction founded on the existence of a Federal question.
The action arises under [the Constitution of the United States, Article
-,
Section __ ]; [the __
Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States, Section __
]; [the Act of -,
Stat. _
;
U. S. C., Title

-,

§

-];

[the Treaty of the United States (here de-

scribe the treaty)] 2 as hereinafter more fully appears.

FORM 18-A. [Abrogated]
FORM

33.

NOTICE OF AVAILABILITY OF A MAGISTRATE JUDGE TO
EXERCISE JURISDICTION AND APPEAL OPTION

In accordance with the provisions of Title 28, U. S. C. § 636(c), you are
hereby notified that a United States magistrate judge of this district court

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

1157

is available to exercise the court's jurisdiction and to conduct any or all
proceedings in this case including a jury or nonjury trial, and entry of a
final judgment. Exercise of this jurisdiction by a magistrate judge is,
however, permitted only if all parties voluntarily consent.
You may, without adverse substantive consequences, withhold your consent, but this will prevent the court's jurisdiction from being exercised by
a magistrate judge. If any party withholds consent, the identity of the
parties consenting or withholding consent will not be communicated to any
magistrate judge or to the district judge to whom the case has been
assigned.
An appeal from a judgment entered by a magistrate judge may be taken
directly to the United States court of appeals for this judicial circuit in
the same manner as an appeal from any other judgment of a district court.
Alternatively, upon consent of all parties, an appeal from a judgment entered by a magistrate judge may be taken directly to a district judge.
Cases in which an appeal is taken to a district judge may be reviewed by
the United States court of appeals for this judicial circuit only by way of
petition for leave to appeal.
Copies of the Form for the "Consent to Jurisdiction by a United States
Magistrate Judge" and "Election of Appeal to a District Judge" are available from the clerk of the court.
FORM 34. CONSENT TO EXERCISE OF JURISDICTION BY A UNITED STATES

MAGISTRATE JUDGE, ELECTION OF APPEAL TO DISTRICT JUDGE

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
DISTRICT OF

Plaintiff, }
vs.

Docket No.

Defendant. I
CONSENT TO JURISDICTION BY A UNITED STATES
MAGISTRATE JUDGE
In accordance with the provisions of Title 28, U. S. C. §636(c), the undersigned party or parties to the above-captioned civil matter hereby voluntarily consent to have a United States magistrate judge conduct any and
all further proceedings in the case, including trial, and order the entry of
a final judgment.
Date

Signature
ELECTION OF APPEAL TO DISTRICT JUDGE

[Do not execute this portion of the Consent Form if you desire that the
appeal lie directly to the court of appeals.]

1158

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

In accordance with the provisions of Title 28, U. S. C. §636(c)(4), the
undersigned party or parties elect to take any appeal in this case to a
district judge of this court.
Date

Signature

Note: Return this form to the Clerk of the Court if you consent to jurisdiction by a magistrate judge. Do not send a copy of this form to any district
judge or magistrate judge.
FORM 34A. ORDER OF REFERENCE

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
DISTRICT OF

Plaintiff,
vs.

Docket No.

Defendant. I
ORDER OF REFERENCE
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the above-captioned matter be refor all further
ferred to United States Magistrate Judge
proceedings and entry of judgment in accordance with Title 28, U. S. C.
§636(c) and the consent of the parties.
U. S. District Judge
FORM 35.

REPORT OF PARTIES' PLANNING MEETING

[Caption and Names of Parties]
1. Pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(f), a meeting was held on
at

(place)
(name)
(name)

(name)

(date)

and was attended by:
for plaintiff(s)
for defendant(s)
(party name)
for defendant(s)
(party name)

2. Pre-Discovery Disclosures. The parties [have exchanged] [will exchange by
[local rule

(date)

] the information required by [Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(a)(1)]
].

3. Discovery Plan. The parties jointly propose to the court the following
discovery plan: [Use separate paragraphs or subparagraphs as necessary
if parties disagree.]
Discovery will be needed on the following subjects:
(brief description of subjects on which discovery will be needed)

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE
All discovery commenced in time to be completed by
[Discovery on
(date)

(issue for early discovery)

(date)

to be completed by

.]

Maximum of
interrogatories by each party to any other party.
[Responses due
- days after service.]
Maximum of
requests for admission by each party to any other
party. [Responses due
- days after service.]
Maximum of
depositions by plaintiff(s) and
by
defendant(s).
Each deposition [other than of __
] limited to maximum of_
hours unless extended by agreement of parties.
Reports from retained experts under Rule 26(a)(2) due:
from plaintiff(s) by
(date)
from defendant(s) by
(date)
Supplementations under Rule 26(e) due
(time(s) or interval(s)
).
4. Other Items. [Use separate paragraphs or subparagraphs as necessary if parties disagree.]
The parties [request] [do not request] a conference with the court before
entry of the scheduling order.
The parties request a pretrial conference in
(month and year)
Plaintiff(s) should be allowed until
(date)
to join additional parties
and until
(date)
to amend the pleadings.
Defendant(s) should be allowed until
(date)
to join additional parties
and until
(date)
to amend the pleadings.
All potentially dispositive motions should be filed by
(date)
Settlement [is likely] [is unlikely] [cannot be evaluated prior to
(date) ] [may be enhanced by use of the following alternative dispute resolution procedure: [
.
Final lists of witnesses and exhibits under Rule 26(a)(3) should be due
from plaintiff(s) by
(date)
from defendant(s) by
(date)
Parties should have __ days after service of final lists of witnesses
and exhibits to list objections under Rule 26(a)(3).
The case should be ready for trial by
(date)
[and at this time is
expected to take approximately
(length of time)
1.
[Other matters.]
Date:

