AMENDMENTS TO
FEDERAL RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE
The following amendments to the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure were prescribed by the Supreme Court of the United States on April
22, 1993, pursuant to 28 U. S. C. §2075, and were reported to Congress by
THE CHIEF JUSTICE on the same date. For the letter of transmittal, see
post, p. 1076. The Judicial Conference report referred to in that letter is
not reproduced herein.
Note that under 28 U. S. C. § 2075, such amendments do not take effect
until so reported to Congress and until the expiration of 90 days
thereafter.
For earlier publication of the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure
and amendments thereto, see, e. g., 461 U. S. 973, 471 U. S. 1147, 480 U. S.
1077, 490 U. S. 1119, and 500 U. S. 1017.

1075

LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
WASHINGTON, D. C.

APRIL

22, 1993

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress Assembled:
By direction of the Supreme Court of the United States,
I have the honor to submit to the Congress amendments to
the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure that have been
adopted by the Supreme Court pursuant to Section 2075 of
Title 28, United States Code. While the Court is satisfied
that the required procedures have been observed, this
transmittal does not necessarily indicate that the Court
itself would have proposed these amendments in the form
submitted.
Accompanying these rules are excerpts from the report of
the Judicial Conference of the United States containing the
Advisory Committee Notes submitted to the Court for its
consideration pursuant to Section 331 of Title 28, United
States Code.
Sincerely,
(Signed) WILLIAM H. REHNQUIST
Chief Justice of the United States

1076

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
APRIL 22, 1993
ORDERED:

1. That the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure be,
and they hereby are, amended by including therein amendments to Bankruptcy Rules 1010, 1013, 1017, 2002, 2003,
2005, 3009, 3015, 3018, 3019, 3020, 5005, 6002, 6006, 6007,
9002, and 9019, and new Rule 9036.
[See infra, pp. 1079-1087.]
2. That the foregoing amendments to the Federal Rules of
Bankruptcy Procedure shall take effect on August 1, 1993,
and shall govern all proceedings in bankruptcy cases thereafter commenced and, insofar as just and practicable, all proceedings in bankruptcy cases then pending.

3. That THE CHIEF JUSTICE be, and he hereby is, authorized to transmit to the Congress the foregoing amendments
to the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2075 of Title 28, United
States Code.

1077

AMENDMENTS TO THE FEDERAL RULES
OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

Rule 1010. Service of involuntary petition and summons;
petition commencing ancillary case.
On the filing of an involuntary petition or a petition commencing a case ancillary to a foreign proceeding the clerk
shall forthwith issue a summons for service. When an involuntary petition is filed, service shall be made on the debtor.
When a petition commencing an ancillary case is filed, service shall be made on the parties against whom relief is sought
pursuant to § 304(b) of the Code and on any other parties as
the court may direct. The summons shall be served with a
copy of the petition in the manner provided for service of a
summons and complaint by Rule 7004(a) or (b). If service
cannot be so made, the court may order that the summons
and petition be served by mailing copies to the party's last
known address, and by at least one publication in a manner
and form directed by the court. The summons and petition
may be served on the party anywhere. Rule 7004(f) and
Rule 4(g) and (h) F. R. Civ. P. apply when service is made or
attempted under this rule.
Rule 1013. Hearing and disposition of a petition in an
involuntary case.
(a) Contested petition.-The court shall determine the issues of a contested petition at the earliest practicable time
and forthwith enter an order for relief, dismiss the petition,
or enter any other appropriate order.
(b) Default.-If no pleading or other defense to a petition
is filed within the time provided by Rule 1011, the court, on
the next day, or as soon thereafter as practicable, shall enter
an order for the relief requested in the petition.
(c) [Abrogated]
1079

RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

Rule 1017 Dismissal or conversion of case; suspension.
(d) Procedurefor dismissal or conversion.-A proceeding
to dismiss a case or convert a case to another chapter, except
pursuant to §§ 706(a), 707(b), 1112(a), 1208(a) or (b), or 1307(a)
or (b) of the Code, is governed by Rule 9014. Conversion
or dismissal pursuant to §§ 706(a), 1112(a), 1208(b), or 1307(b)
shall be on motion filed and served as required by Rule 9013.
A chapter 12 or chapter 13 case shall be converted without
court order on the filing by the debtor of a notice of conversion pursuant to §§ 1208(a) or 1307(a), and the filing date of
the notice shall be deemed the date of the conversion order
for the purposes of applying §348(c) of the Code and Rule
1019. The clerk shall forthwith transmit to the United
States trustee a copy of the notice.
Rule 2002. Notices to creditors, equity security holders,
United States, and United States trustee.
(j) Notices to the United States.-Copies of notices required to be mailed to all creditors under this rule shall be
mailed (1) in a chapter 11 reorganization case, to the Securities and Exchange Commission at any place the Commission
designates, if the Commission has filed either a notice of
appearance in the case or a written request to receive
notices; ....

Rule 2003. Meeting of creditors or equity security holders.
(a) Date and place.-In a chapter 7 liquidation or a chapter 11 reorganization case, the United States trustee shall
call a meeting of creditors to be held no fewer than 20 and
no more than 40 days after the order for relief. In a chapter
12 family farmer debt adjustment case, the United States
trustee shall call a meeting of creditors to be held no fewer
than 20 and no more than 35 days after the order for relief.
In a chapter 13 individual's debt adjustment case, the United
States trustee shall call a meeting of creditors to be held no

RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

1081

fewer than 20 and no more than 50 days after the order for
relief. If there is an appeal from or a motion to vacate the
order for relief, or if there is a motion to dismiss the case,
the United States trustee may set a later date for the meeting. The meeting may be held at a regular place for holding
court or at any other place designated by the United States
trustee within the district convenient for the parties in interest. If the United States trustee designates a place for the
meeting which is not regularly staffed by the United States
trustee or an assistant who may preside at the meeting, the
meeting may be held not more than 60 days after the order
for relief.
Rule 2005. Apprehension and removal of debtor to compel
attendancefor examination.
(b) Removal.-Whenever any order to bring the debtor
before the court is issued under this rule and the debtor is
found in a district other than that of the court issuing the
order, the debtor may be taken into custody under the order
and removed in accordance with the following rules:
(1) If the debtor is taken into custody under the order
at a place less than 100 miles from the place of issue of
the order, the debtor shall be brought forthwith before
the court that issued the order.
(2) If the debtor is taken into custody under the order
at a place 100 miles or more from the place of issue of
the order, the debtor shall be brought without unnecessary delay before the nearest available United States
magistrate judge, bankruptcy judge, or district judge.
If, after hearing, the magistrate judge, bankruptcy
judge, or district judge finds that an order has issued
under this rule and that the person in custody is the
debtor, or if the person in custody waives a hearing, the
magistrate judge, bankruptcy judge, or district judge
shall order removal, and the person in custody shall
be released on conditions ensuring prompt appearance

1082

RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

before the court that issued the order to compel the
attendance.
Rule 3009. Declaration and payment of dividends in a
Chapter 7 liquidationcase.
In a chapter 7 case, dividends to creditors shall be paid
as promptly as practicable. Dividend checks shall be made
payable to and mailed to each creditor whose claim has been
allowed, unless a power of attorney authorizing another entity to receive dividends has been executed and filed in accordance with Rule 9010. In that event, dividend checks
shall be made payable to the creditor and to the other entity
and shall be mailed to the other entity.
Rule 3015. Filing, objection to confirmation,and modification of a plan in a Chapter 12 family farmer's debt
adjustment or a Chapter 13 individual's debt adjustment case.
(a) Chapter 12 plan.-The debtor may file a chapter 12
plan with the petition. If a plan is not filed with the petition, it shall be filed within the time prescribed by § 1221 of
the Code.
(b) Chapter 13 plan.-The debtor may file a chapter 13
plan with the petition. If a plan is not filed with the petition, it shall be filed within 15 days thereafter, and such time
may not be further extended except for cause shown and on
notice as the court may direct. If a case is converted to
chapter 13, a plan shall be filed within 15 days thereafter,
and such time may not be further extended except for cause
shown and on notice as the court may direct.
(c) Dating.-Every proposed plan and any modification
thereof shall be dated.
(d) Notice and copies.-The plan or a summary of the plan
shall be included with each notice of the hearing on confirmation mailed pursuant to Rule 2002. If required by the
court, the debtor shall furnish a sufficient number of copies
to enable the clerk to include a copy of the plan with the
notice of the hearing.

RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

(e) Transmission to United States trustee.-The clerk
shall forthwith transmit to the United States trustee a copy
of the plan and any modification thereof filed pursuant to
subdivision (a) or (b) of this rule.
(f) Objection to confirmation; determination of good
faith in the absence of an objection.-An objection to confirmation of a plan shall be filed and served on the debtor,
the trustee, and any other entity designated by the court,
and shall be transmitted to the United States trustee, before
confirmation of the plan. An objection to confirmation is
governed by Rule 9014. If no objection is timely filed, the
court may determine that the plan has been proposed in good
faith and not by any means forbidden by law without receiving evidence on such issues.
(g) Modification of plan after confirmation.-A request
to modify a plan pursuant to § 1229 or § 1329 of the Code
shall identify the proponent and shall be filed together with
the proposed modification. The clerk, or some other person
as the court may direct, shall give the debtor, the trustee,
and all creditors not less than 20 days notice by mail of the
time fixed for filing objections and, if an objection is filed,
the hearing to consider the proposed modification, unless the
court orders otherwise with respect to creditors who are not
affected by the proposed modification. A copy of the notice
shall be transmitted to the United States trustee. A copy
of the proposed modification, or a summary thereof, shall be
included with the notice. If required by the court, the proponent shall furnish a sufficient number of copies of the proposed modification, or a summary thereof, to enable the clerk
to include a copy with each notice. Any objection to the
proposed modification shall be filed and served on the debtor,
the trustee, and any other entity designated by the court,
and shall be transmitted to the United States trustee. An
objection to a proposed modification is governed by Rule
9014.
Rule 3018. Acceptance or rejection of plan in a Chapter 9
municipality or a Chapter 11 reorganizationcase.

1084

RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

Rule 3019. Modification of accepted plan before confirmation in a Chapter 9 municipality or Chapter 11 reorganization case.
In a chapter 9 or chapter 11 case, after a plan has been
accepted and before its confirmation, the proponent may file
a modification of the plan. If the court finds after hearing
on notice to the trustee, any committee appointed under the
Code, and any other entity designated by the court that the
proposed modification does not adversely change the treatment of the claim of any creditor or the interest of any equity
security holder who has not accepted in writing the modification, it shall be deemed accepted by all creditors and equity security holders who have previously accepted the plan.
Rule 3020. Deposit; confirmation of plan in a Chapter 9
municipality or a Chapter 11 reorganizationcase.
(a) Deposit.-In a chapter 11 case, prior to entry of the
order confirming the plan, the court may order the deposit
with the trustee or debtor in possession of the consideration
required by the plan to be distributed on confirmation. Any
money deposited shall be kept in a special account established for the exclusive purpose of making the distribution.
(b) Objection to and hearing on confirmation in a Chapter 9 or Chapter 11 case.
(1) Objection.-An objection to confirmation of the plan
shall be filed and served on the debtor, the trustee, the proponent of the plan, any committee appointed under the Code,
and any other entity designated by the court, within a time
fixed by the court. Unless the case is a chapter 9 municipality case, a copy of every objection to confirmation shall be
transmitted by the objecting party to the United States
trustee within the time fixed for filing objections. An objection to confirmation is governed by Rule 9014.
(2) Hearing.-The court shall rule on confirmation of the
plan after notice and hearing as provided in Rule 2002. If
no objection is timely filed, the court may determine that the
plan has been proposed in good faith and not by any means
forbidden by law without receiving evidence on such issues.

RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

1085

(c) Order of confirmation.-The order of confirmation
shall conform to the appropriate Official Form and notice of
entry thereof shall be mailed promptly as provided in Rule
2002(f) to the debtor, the trustee, creditors, equity security
holders, and other parties in interest. Except in a chapter
9 municipality case, notice of entry of the order of confirmation shall be transmitted to the United States trustee as provided in Rule 2002(k).
(d) Retained power.-Notwithstanding the entry of the
order of confirmation, the court may issue any other order
necessary to administer the estate.
Rule 5005. Filing and transmittal of papers.
(a) Filing.-The lists, schedules, statements, proofs of
claim or interest, complaints, motions, applications, objections and other papers required to be filed by these rules,
except as provided in 28 U. S. C. § 1409, shall be filed with
the clerk in the district where the case under the Code is
pending. The judge of that court may permit the papers to
be filed with the judge, in which event the filing date shall
be noted thereon, and they shall be forthwith transmitted to
the clerk. The clerk shall not refuse to accept for filing any
petition or other paper presented for the purpose of filing
solely because it is not presented in proper form as required
by these rules or any local rules or practices.
Rule 6002. Accounting by prior custodian of property of
the estate.
(b) Examination of administration.-On the filing and
transmittal of the report and account required by subdivision
(a) of this rule and after an examination has been made into
the superseded administration, after notice and a hearing,
the court shall determine the propriety of the administration, including the reasonableness of all disbursements.

1086

RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

Rule 6006. Assumption, rejection and assignment of executory contracts and unexpired leases.
(c) Notice.-Notice of a motion made pursuant to subdivision (a) or (b) of this rule shall be given to the other party
to the contract or lease, to other parties in interest as the
court may direct, and, except in a chapter 9 municipality
case, to the United States trustee.
Rule 6007. Abandonment or disposition of property.
(a) Notice of proposed abandonmentor disposition;objections; hearing.-Unlessotherwise directed by the court, the
trustee or debtor in possession shall give notice of a proposed abandonment or disposition of property to the United
States trustee, all creditors, indenture trustees, and committees elected pursuant to § 705 or appointed pursuant to § 1102
of the Code. A party in interest may file and serve an objection within 15 days of the mailing of the notice, or within the
time fixed by the court. If a timely objection is made, the
court shall set a hearing on notice to the United States
trustee and to other entities as the court may direct.
(b) Motion by party in interest.-A party in interest may
file and serve a motion requiring the trustee or debtor in
possession to abandon property of the estate.
(c) [Abrogated]
Rule 9002. Meanings of words in the federal rules of civil
procedure when applicable to cases under the code.
The following words and phrases used in the Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure made applicable to cases under the
Code by these rules have the meanings indicated unless they
are inconsistent with the context:
(4) "District court," "trial court," "court," "district
judge," or "judge" means bankruptcy judge if the case or
proceeding is pending before a bankruptcy judge.

RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

1087

Rule 9019. Compromise and arbitration.
(a) Compromise.-On motion by the trustee and after notice and a hearing, the court may approve a compromise or
settlement. Notice shall be given to creditors, the United
States trustee, the debtor, and indenture trustees as provided in Rule 2002 and to any other entity as the court
may direct.
Rule 9036. Notice by electronic transmission.
Whenever the clerk or some other person as directed by
the court is required to send notice by mail and the entity
entitled to receive the notice requests in writing that, instead of notice by mail, all or part of the information required
to be contained in the notice be sent by a specified type of
electronic transmission, the court may direct the clerk or
other person to send the information by such electronic
transmission. Notice by electronic transmission is complete,
and the sender shall have fully complied with the requirement to send notice, when the sender obtains electronic confirmation that the transmission has been received.

