34

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. COWDEN MANUFACTURING

CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 188. Argued December 20, 1940.-Decided January 13, 1941.
A contract with the United States for furnishing a quantity of
garments stipulated that the price payable to the contractor should
be increased to the extent of such subsequently imposed federal
taxes as are "made applicable directly upon the production, manufacture, or sale of the supplies covered by this contract and are
paid by the contractor on the articles herein contracted for . . ."
Held not to obligate the United States in respect to taxes subsequently imposed under the Agricultural Adjustment Act on the
processing of materials sold to the contractor and used in the
manufacture of the garments, for which taxes the processors were
reimbursed by the contractor pursuant to agreements between
them. P. 36.
The taxes in question were not "directly" applicable to the
manufacture of the "supplies covered by this contract," nor "paid
by the contractor," within the meaning of the contract.
91 Ct. Cls. 75; 32 F. Supp. 141, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 311 U. S. 624, to review a judgment against
the United States in a suit upon a contract.
Mr. Andrew D. Sharpe, with whom Solicitor General
Biddle, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Mr. J.
Louis Monarch were on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Phil D. Morelock for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Respondent seeks reimbursement from the United
States of the amounts paid to processors to compensate
them for processing taxes paid on cotton goods sold to
respondent. The suit is based on a contract between
respondent and the United States, rather than on Title.

UNITED STATES v. COWDEN MFG. CO.
34

35

Opinion of the Court.

VII of the Revenue Act of 1936 (49 Stat. 1648, 1747),
which authorizes refunds to processors, under certain
circumstances, of processing taxes illegally collected
under the Agricultural Adjustment Act (48 Stat. 31).
The question is whether the "federal taxes" clause of the
contract obligates the United States to make the
reimbursement.
Prior to June 6, 1933, the War Department called for
bids on a contract to furnish a certain kind of mechanic's
suit. On June 6, 1933, respondent submitted its bid, and
on June 24, 1933, executed a contract with the United
States whereby respondent agreed to furnish a specified
number of the suits at a stated price. The contract provided, in the "federal taxes" clause, that: "Prices set
forth herein include any Federal Tax heretofore imposed
by the Congress which is applicable to the material purchased under this contract. If any sales tax, processing
tax, adjustment charge, or other taxes or charges are
imposed or changed by the Congress after the date set
for the opening of the bid upon which this contract is
based and made applicable directly upon the production,
manufacture, or sale of the supplies covered by this contract and are paid by the contractor on the articles or
supplies herein contracted for, then the prices named
in this contract will be increased or decreased accordingly. .. "
To perform its contract with the United States, respondent contracted to purchase cotton cloth, thread, and
labels from subcontractors who were liable, as processors,
to pay any processing taxes levied on the articles sold to
respondent. At the time these contracts were made no
taxes were in effect on the processing of cotton, but in
anticipation of such taxes respondent and the subcontractors agreed that respondent would reimburse them for
any taxes they were required to pay on the processing of
goods sold to respondent, the taxes to be billed as a sepa-

36

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

rate item. Thereafter, respondent received the goods
covered by these contracts and compensated the subcontractors for the taxes they were later required to pay on
the processing of the cotton. It has performed its contract with the United States and now claims that the
quoted provision obligates the United States to pay
respondent the amounts it has paid its subcontractors
to compensate them for the processing taxes they have
paid. Because the Comptroller General rejected its
claim, respondent brought this suit in the Court of Claims
and obtained judgment. 91 Ct. Cls. 75; 32 F. Supp. 141.
We granted certiorari on October 14, 1940, to resolve the
uncertainty as to the correct construction of the "federal
taxes" clause which appears in a large number of government contracts.
The only question is whether the United States, in the
"federal taxes" clause, has agreed to pay respondent the
amount respondent paid its subcontractors to reimburse
them for taxes paid on the processing of the goods sold
to respondent. We hold that it has not.
We are of opinion that the "federal taxes" clause does
not obligate the United States to reimburse its contractor
for taxes which the latter has borne merely as a matter
of contract with its subcontractors. On the contrary, the
fair import of the clause is that the United States must
make reimbursement only for such taxes as the contractor
has paid pursuant to an obligation imposed upon him by
the statute which exacts 'the tax.
The language of the clause is precise. It provides only
for reimbursement of those taxes which are "made applicable directly upon the production, manufacture, or sale
of the supplies covered by this contract." The supplies
"covered by this contract" are the mechanics' suits, the
completed articles furnished to the United States. Since
the clause further provides in exact language that the
tax must be "directly" applicable, we cannot agree that
a tax on the cloth, thread, and labels is a tax on the

UNITED STATES v. COWDEN MFG. CO.
34

37

Opinion of the Court.

"supplies covered by this contract." Compare Telescope
Folding Furniture Co. v. United States, 31 F. Supp.
780, 784; United States v. Glenn L. Martin Co., 308
U. S. 62.
Moreover, the clause stipulates for reimbursement of
taxes "paid by the contractor." It is reasonable to conclude that this phrase also contemplates payment of
taxes to the United States in consequence of an obligation imposed by statute upon respondent. For while in
a sense, perhaps, respondent "paid" these processing
taxes, it is more accurate to say that they were "paid" by
the subcontractors who merely shifted their burden to
respondent as a separate item of the contract price. The
clause as a whole indicates that this was the sense to be
attributed to the phrase quoted.
A contrary construction of the "federal taxes" clause
introduces difficulties not contemplated by the parties.
It would force them to trace the taxes back to. the one
upon whom the obligation first rested, whether the subsequent transactions were simple or complex. For if it
could be said in this case that the processing taxes were
imposed on the supplies covered by the contract and
were paid by the contractor, it would be immaterial how
far the contractor were removed from the original
processor if the former could show that the burden of the
tax had been shifted as the processed articles had changed
hands and perhaps form. We can find nothing which
suggests that the parties intended to draft a clause that
would operate in such fashion.
We conclude that the quoted clause does not obligate
the United States to compensate respondent for taxes
which were paid by its subcontractors and were merely
shifted to respondent pursuant to their subcontract. The
judgment of the Court of Claims is reversed and the
cause is remanded with directions to dismiss the
petition.
Reversed.

