BROWDER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

BROWDER v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 287.

Argued January 16, 1941.-Decided February 17, 1941.

1. A citizen of the United States who willfully and knowingly uses
.a United States passport which was secured by a false statement,
is guilty of an offense under § 2 of the Passport Title of the Act
of June 15, 1917, when the use was for the purpose of establishing
his identity and citizenship and consequent right to re'nter this
country from abroad. P. 337.
2. The term "willful" often denotes an intentional, as distinguished
from an accidental, act. P. 342.
113 F. 2d 97, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

311 U. S. 631, to review the affirmance

of a sentence on two counts .of an indictment.
Mr. Carl S. Stern, with whom Carol King was on the
brief, for petitioner.
Mr. John T. Cahill, with whom Solicitor General Biddle, Assistant Attorniey General Berge, and Messrs. Herbert Wechsler, Raoul Berger, and Robert L. Werner
were on the brief, for the United States.
MR.

JUSTICE

REED

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question is whether the use by an American citizen of a passport obtained by false statements to facilitate reentry into the United States is a "use" within
§ 2 of the Passport Title of the Act of June 15, 1917,'
Stat. 217, 227, Title IX:
"SEc. 2. Whoever shall willfully and knowingly make any false
statement in an application for passport with intent to induce or
secure the issuance of a passport under the authority of the United
States, either for his own use or the use of another, contrary to the
140

336

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

and, if so, whether petitioner was properly convicted of
a "willful" use. •We brought the case here because of
its importance in the administration of the passport
laws,
Section 2 provides that whoever shall either make a
'false statement in an application for a passport or "shall
willfully and knowingly use . . . any passport the issue
of which was secured in any way by reason of any false
statement, shall be fined not more than $2,000 or imprisoned not more than five years or both." The indictment
in two counts charged that petitioner, having secured
a passport by a-false statement, willfully and knowingly
used it on April 30, 1937, and again on February 15, 1938,
each time by presenting it to an immigration inspector
to gain entry into the United States. The proof showed
that *petitioner, a native-born American citizen, had in
1921, 1927 and 1931 obtairied passports under different
assumed names by means of false statements. In 1934
petitioner applied for a passport in his own name. The
application blank contained the clause: "My last passport was obtained from ................ and is submitted herewith for cancellation." Despite the three
passports previously issued to him, petitioner wrote
"'none" in the blank space, then signed the application
and swore to the truth of its contents. The Government
issued him a passport, which was later extended upon
a renewal application until September 1, 1938. Returnifig from Europe in April, 1937, and' again in February,
laws regulating the issuance of passports or the ruW prescribed pursuant to such laws, or whoever shall willfully and knowingly use or
attempt to use, or furnish 'to another for use, any passport the issue
of which was secured in any way by reason of any false statement,
shall be fined not more than $2,000 or imprisoned not more than five
years or both."
By the Act of March 28, 1940, the maximum term of imprisonment under this section was increased to ten years. 54 Stat. 80.

BROWDER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

335

1938, petitioner showed his passport to an inspector to
identify himself and establish his citizenship and consequent right to reenter the United States. The jury convicted him on both counts for willfully using a passport
secured by a false statement, and the District Court
sentenced him to two years' imprisonment and a fine of
$1,000 on each count, the terms to run consecutively.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed.' At the time
of the indictment, the statute of limitations had run
on the obtaining of the passport by a false statement
(18 U. S. C. § 582).
Petitioner contends that the indictment is for the "use"
"of a passport as truthful proof of his Kansas birth."
Since the "use" to prove an admitted fact-his American
citizenship-was innocent, it is urged, no statutory prohibition was violated. The indictment, however,
charges that petitioner "used . . .a passport . . . the
issue of which he secured by reason of a false statement . . . in the application therefor." The language
of the indictment conforms to the definition of the offense
in the statute, as the use of "any passport the issue of
which was secured in any way'by reason of any false
statement." The balanced form of. § 2, quoted above
at note 1, shows that the Congress viewed with concern
and punished with equal severity the securing of passports by false statements and their use. The crimes
denounced are not the securing or the use but either of
such actions made criminal only by the false statements
in the procurement of the passport. If the misrepresentation is withdrawn nothing culpable remains in the
use. A condemned use of a passport secured by the
fraud seems obviously within the act.
A more difficult issue emerges from petitioner's assertion that the use proven here is not the kind of use
covered by the statute. He finds the prohibitions di2 113 F. 2d 97.
301335°-41-22

W8s

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

rected against "dishonest uses :of the safe-conduct of
-the United States in' foreign relations." Such use must
'be "willful and knowing," an expression said to bear
the connotation of evil or dishonest. Attention is called
to alleg-ed passport frauds of about the time of the -passage of the passport sections and to the recommendation
of the Attorney. General that Congress pass legislation
against the fraudulent use of passports.' These are
brought forward as indicative Of the purpose of Congress
to punish fraudulent uses or those uses abroad which
would involve misuse of the privilege, under international
law, of traveling through foreign countries.
It is quite true that passports are used chiefly in foreign travel. There is no limitation, however, to that
field and surely the close connection between foreign
travel andrentry to this country is obvious. The-plain
meaning of the words of the act covers this use. No
single argument has more weight in statutory interpretation than this.' Nothing in the legislative history is
brought to our attention which indicates any other purpose in Congress than that expressed by the words of the
act. The final form of the enactment did not vary in
this particular portion from the bill originally introduced.5 The Government does not urge that every use
of a fraudulent passport is violative of the act but only
those "uses in connection with travel which are a part of
the ordinary incentives for obtaining passports." Certainly the use to prove citizenship on reentry to the
country is within the ordinary incentives.' It is -en'Report of the Attorney General (1916), p. 17.
' United State8 v. American Trucking Associations, 310 U. S. 534,

543.
.' H. R. 291, 65th Cong.
'Since 1929, the State Department has carried substantially the
following suggestion in its "Notice to Bearers of Passports": "22. An
American citizen leaving the United States for a country where pass-

BROWDER v. UNITED STATES.
335

339

Opinion of the Court.

tirely clear from the record that passports were customarily used to prove the bearer's citizenship on reentry into
the United States at the time of this alleged offense. The
use of a passport for re6ntry is now routine, although
neither at the time of the passage of the act nor at
present are passports required of citizens on reentry.
Our conclusion is not weakened by the fact that the Act
of May 22, 1918,7 which required citizens to use passports
to depart from or enter the United States, was permitted
to expire after the war emergency. While passports no
longer were required for reentry, their use for that purpose afterwards became both convenient and customary.
The fact that at the time 'of the passage of the act,
passports were not customarily used by citizens to assure
easy reentry is brought forward by petitioner to support
the argument that Congress did not intend to punish uses
such as the one charged here. There is nothing in the
-legislative history to indicate that Congress considered
the question of use by returning citizens. Old crimes,
however, may be committed under new conditions. Old
laws apply to changed situations.8 The reach of the act
is not sustained or opposed by the fact that it is sought
to bring new situations under its terms? While a statute
ports are not required is nevertheless advised to carry a passport,
except in travel to Canada or Mexico. The passport may later save
the time and inconvenience of applying for one abroad should the
holder desire to travel in countries where passports are required. It
will also enable the holder to establish his American citizenship upon
his return to the United States and thus facilitate his entry. American citizens who leave the United States without passports should
carry with them proof of their citizenship, such as birth, baptism,
or naturalization certificates."
'40 Stat. 559.
'Cf. Cain v. Bowlby, 114 F. 2d 519, 522, and cases and instances
there cited; Maxwell, Interpretation of Statutes, (7th ed. 1929) pp.
69-70.
SNe,wman v.Arthur, 100 U. S.132, 138; Pickhardt v. Merritt, 132
U.S.252, 257; De Lima v.Bidwell, 182 U. S. 1, 197.

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

speaks from its enactment, even a criminal statute embraces everything which subsequently falls within its
scope.1" The use here charged under these tests was
clearly within the scope of the act. The purpose of this
act was to punish the use of passports obtained by false
statements.
There is the further contention that the Government's
construction of the word "use" would make criminal,
under other sections of the act, the presentation of expired passports for the purpose of identifying citizens
returning from Mexico, Bermuda and Canada. Petitioner urges that such uses, though frequent and apparently acquiesced in by the authorities, would then violate
§ 3, which prohibits a use "in violation of the conditions
or restrictions therein contained," and also § 4, which
prohibits the use of a passport "validly issued which has
become void by the occurrence of any condition therein
prescribed invalidating the same." The question of the
meaning of other sections is not before us. Considered
solely from the standpoint of their analogy to § 2, the
use of expired passports to identify the holder seems entirely different from the use of a passport obtained by
false statements. The vice in the latter is congenital.
Its willful use is prohibited.
Petitioner points out, however, that the use must be
"willfully and knowingly." In his view this means a use
which is dishonest in addition to or apart from the dishonesty in obtaining the passport, and which is in itself
evil "as the use of a passport to invoke fraudulently the
protection of the United States abroad." Further it is
said this evil must be the kind of evil within the spirit
and intendment of the act. But the statute plainly does
"State v. Butler, 42 N. M. 271, 274; 76 P. 2d 1149; Commonwealth v. Tilley, 28 N. E. 2d 245 (Mass.); People v. Hines, 284 N. Y.
93, 104; 29 N. E. 2d 483.

BROWDER v. UNITED STATES.
335

Opinion of the Court.

not purport to punish fraudulent or dishonest use other
than such as is. involved in the use of a passport dishonestly obtained. None of its words suggest that
fraudulent use is an element of the crime. The statute
is aimed at the protection of the integrity of United
States passports. It penalizes both procuring the passport by a false statement and its use when so procured.
The crime of "use" is complete when the passport so
obtained is used willfully and knowingly.
Read in its context, the phrase "willfully and knowingly," as the trial court charged the jury, can be taken
only as meaning "deliberately and with knowledge and
not something which is merely careless or negligent or
inadvertent." No exception was taken to this instruction. The point at issue arises because a motion was
denied to dismiss the indictment on the ground that
"the government's case is fatally defective in that it
lacks the most essential ingredient of the entire case;
namely, the criminal intent of the defendant at the time
of the alleged act"; that there is "no proof that there
was a knowing and willful use to gain entry." Petitioner relies upon United States v. Murdock." That
case affirmed a reversal of conviction for a violation of
§ 1114 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1926 and a like section of the 1928 act. These sections made -it a misdemeanor for a taxpayer to "willfully" fail to supply information in regard to income. The taxpayer refused
the information on the ground of privilege from fear of
self-incrimination. At the time the law upon the point
was uncertain. This reasonable fear, this Court held,
'entitled the taxpayer to requested instruction on his good
faith in refusing to. answer. This claim of constitutional
right is quite different from the claim here of a right to
use a passport obtained by false representation, contrary
" .290 U. S. 389, 394.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

312 U. S.

to the express words of the statute, because there was no
ulterior evil purpose in mind. The Murdock 'opinion
recognizes, p. 394, that the word "willful" often denotes
an intentional as distinguished from an accidental act.
Once the basic wrong under this passport statute is completed, that is the securing of a passport by a false statement, any intentional use of that passport in travel is
punishable.
Other suggestions as a basis for reversal are made.
These do not require particular comment.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

WARSZOWER v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 338.

FOR THE

Argued January 16, 17, 1941.-Decided February 17, 1941.

1. A citizen of the United States who willfully and knowingly uses
a United States passport which was secured by a false statement,
is guilty of an offense under § 2 of the Passport Title of the
Act of June 15, 1917, when the use was for the purpose of establishing his identity and citizenship and consequent right to reenter
this country from abroad. Browder v. United States, ante, p. 335.
P. 343.
2. Evidence consisting of a ship's manifest of incoming United States
citizens with their names and the numbers of their respective
passports, and the testimony of an immigration inspector as to
his practice of examining the passports in such cases, checking
their numbers with those on the manifest,-held sufficient to go to
the jury on the question whether the prisoner presented his passport on entering the country. P. 344.
3. Statements that were made by an accused before the commission
of the crime charged and which are inconsistent with his innocence
are admissible in evidence without corroborative proof. P. 347.
113 F. 2d 100, affirmed.

