630

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

312 U. S.

seventy-six respondents as to the portion of damages
fairly attributable to each-a problem peculiarly appropriate to equity, and preeminently adapted to settlement
by a single court. Here, respondents joined themselves
together in order jointly to restrain petitioners; they
executed joint bonds; and they invoked the action of
equity which has traditionally exerted its power not
merely to assess damages caused by improvident injunctions but also to prevent the harmful consequences of
an unnecessary multiplicity of causes of action. The
circumstances of this case call so strongly for an assessment by equity that we think the court erred in dismissing the motion for assessment of damages. And it is
especially fitting that equity exert its full strength in
order to protect from loss a state which has been injured
by reason of a suspension of enforcement of state laws
imposed by equity itself.8 The judgment of the court
below is reversed and the cause is remanded for proceedings before a single district judge in conformity with this
opinion.
Reversed and remanded.

MOORE v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 550. Argued March 12, 1941.-Decided March 31, 1941.

1. A ruling by the state supreme court made on review of the first
trial of an action on contract and determining the applicable state
statute of limitations must be followed'by the federal courts on a
second trial, after removal, in the absence of any intervening change
by legislation or by ruling of the state supreme court. P. 633.
Cf. United States v. Morgan, 307 U. S. 183, 197; Inland Steel Co.
v. United States, 306 U. S. 153, 158; Arkadelphia Milling Co. v.
St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co., 249 U. S. 134, 145-146.

MOORE v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. CO.
630

631

Opinion of the Court.

2. Although'a state supreme court consider6 itseli free, on a second
trial, to reconsider and overrule interpretations of state law made
on the first review, the Circuit Court of Appeals upon review following a second trial, after removal, is nevertheless bound by the state
court's interpretations. P. 633.
3 The right of a workman to sue a railroad company for wrongful
discharge is not dependent upon prior exhaustion of his administrative remedies under the Railway Labor Act. P. 634.
112 F. 2d 959, reversed; judgment -' the District Court, 24 F. Supp.
731, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 311 U. S. 643, to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals reversing a judgment recovered
by the plaintiff in the District Court in an'action against
a railroad company for wrongful discharge from employment..
Messrs. George Butler and Garner W. Green submitted
for petitioner.
Mr. James L. Byrd, with whom Messrs. Clinton H. McKay, E. C. Craig and V. W. Fosterwere on the brief, for
respondent.
Solicitor General Biddle and Mr. Robert L. Stern filed
a brief on behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
submitting views of the construction of the Railway
Labor Act, as amended.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
We granted certiorari in this case, 311 U. S. 643, to
review a judgment in which the Circuit Court of Appeals applied a Mississippi statute of limitations contrary to the Mississippi Supreme Court's application of
the same statute to the same plea in the same case.
Compare Moore v. Illinois Central Railroad Co., 180
Miss. 276; 176 So. 593, with Illinois Central Railroad
Co. v. Moore, 112 F. 2d 959.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

Petitioner Moore, a member of the Brotherhood of
Railroad Trainmen, brought suit for damages against
respondent railroad company in a Mississippi state court,
claiming that he had been wrongfully discharged contrary to the terms of a contract between the Trainmen
and the railroad, a copy of the contrat being attached
to the complaint as an exhibit. Petitioner alleged that
as a member of the Trainmen he was entitled to all the
benefits of the contract. Judgment on the pleadings
was rendered against Moore by the trial court. Upon
appeal the Mississippi Supreme Court reversed and remanded. One of the railroad's pleas was that the contract of employment between. Moore and the railroad
was verbal, rather than written, and that any action
thereon was therefore barred by the three year statute of
limitations provided by ยง 2299 of the Mississippi Code
of 1930. With reference to this plea the Mississippi
Supreme Court said: "The appellant's suit is not on a
verbal contract between him and th , appellee, but on a
written contract made with the appellee, for appellant's
benefit, by the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen; consequently, section 2299, Code of 1930, has no application,
and the time within which appellant could sue is six
years under section 2292, Code of 1930." Moore v. Illinois Central R. Co., supra, 291.
After the remand by the Mississippi Supreme Court,
Moore amended his bill to ask damages in excess of
$3000, and the railroad removed the case to the federal
courts. The District Court, considering itself bound by
state law, held that the Mississippi three year statute
of limitations did not apply,' but on' this point the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed, 2 declining to follow the
124 F. Supp. 731.

112 F. 2d 959.

MOORE v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. CO.
630

633

Opinion of the Court.

Mississippi Supreme Court's ruling. Calling attention
to the fact that the Mississippi Supreme Court does not
regard itself as bound by a decision upon a second appeal, the Circuit Court of Appeals (one judge dissenting)
said: "Since the removal of the case to the federal court
this court stands in the place of the Supreme Court of
Mississippi and with the same power of reconsideration."
But the Circuit Courts of Appeals do not have the same
power to reconsider interpretations of state law by state
courts as do the highest courts of the state in which a
decision has been rendered. The Mississippi Supreme
Court had the power to reconsider and overrule its former interpretation, but the court below did not. And in
the. absence of a change by the Mississippi legislature,
the court below could reconsider and depart from the
ruling of the highest court of Mississippi on Mississippi's
statute of limitations only to the extent, if any, that
examination of the later opinions of the Mississippi Supreme Court showed that it had changed its earlier interpretation of the effect of the Mississippi statute.
Wichita Royalty Co. v. City National Bank, 306 U. S.
103, 107; cf.West v. American Telephone & Telegraph
Co., 311 U. S.223; Fidelity Union Trust Co. v. Field, 311
U. S. 169. But the court below did not rely upon any
change brought about by the Mississippi legislature or
the Mississippi Supreme Court. On the contrary, it concluded that it should re~xamine the law because there
was involved the interpretation- and application of a
collective contract of an interstate railroad with its employees. The court below also based its failure to follow
the Mississippi Supreme Court's decision- in Moore's
case on the ground that in an earlier case the Mississippi
Supreme Court had said that the three year statute applied unless a contract was "wholly provable in writing,"
a situation which the court below did not think existed

634

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

.312 U. S.'

here.' But even before the decision in Erie R. Co. v.
Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64, the federal courts applied state
statutes of limitations in accordance with the interpretations given to such statutes by the states' highest
courts. As early as 1893, this Court said: "The construction given to a statute [of limitations] 6'f a State by the
highest judicial tribunal of such State is regarded as a
part of the statute, and is as binding upon the courts
of the United States as the text. If the highest judicial
tribunal of a State adopt new views as to the proper con_struction of such a statute, and reverse its former decisions, this court will follow the latest settled adjudications."' It was error for the court, below to depart
from the Mississippi Supreme Court's interpretation of
the state statute of limitations.
,But respondent says that there is another reason why
the judgment in its favor' should be sustained.' This
reason, according to respondent, is that both the District
Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals erred in failing
to hold that Moore's suit was prematurely brought because of his failure to exhaust the administrative remedies granted him by the Railway Labor Act, 44 Stat.
577, as amended, 48 Stat. 1185, 45 U. S. C. ยง 151, et seq.
But we find nothing in that Act which purports to take
away from the courts the jurisdiction to determine a
controversy over a wrongful discharge or to make an
administrative finding a prerequisite .to filing a suit in
court. In support of its contention, the railroad points
especially to ยง 153 (i), which, as amended in 1934, proCity of Hattiesburgv. Cobb Bros. Construction Co., 174 Miss. 20;
163 So. 676.
'Bauserman v. Blunt, 147 U. S.647, 654, quoting from Leffingwell
v. Warren, 2 Black 599, 603. And see Balkam v. Woodstock Iron Co..
154 U. S. 177, 187.
'Cf. Helvering v. Gowran, 302 U. S.238.

MOORE v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. CO.
630

635

Opinion of the Court.

vides that disputes growing out of grievances or out of
the interpretation or application of agreements "shall
be handled in the usual manner up to and including the
chief operating officer of the carrier designated to handle
such disputes; but, failing to reach an adjustment in
this manner, the disputes may be'referred by petition
of the parties or by either party to the appropriate division of the Adjustment Board with a full statement of
the facts and all supporting data bearing upon the disputes." And in connection with this statutory language
the railroad also directs our attention to a provision in
the agreement between the Trainmen and the railroada provision authorizing Moore to submit his complaint
to officials of the railroad, offer witnesses before them,
appeal to higher officers of the company in case the
decision should be unsatisfactory,, and obtain reinstatement and pay for time lost if officials of the railroad
should find that his suspension or dismissal was unjust.
It is to be noted that the section pointed out, ยง 153 (i),
as amended in 1934, provides no more than that disputes "may be referred .,. . to the .. . Adjustment.
Board..." It is significant that the comparable section of the 1926 Railway Labor Act (44 Stat. 577, 578)
had, before the 1934 amendment, provided that upon
failure of the parties to reach an adjustment- a "dispute
shall be referred to the designated Adjustment Board
by the parties, or by either party . . ." This difference
in language, substituting "may" for "shall," was not,
we think, an indication of a change in policy, but was
instead a clarification of the law's original purpose. For
neither the original 1926 Act, nor the Act as amended in
.1934, indicates that the machinery provided for settling
disputes was based on a philosophy of legal compulsion.
On the contrary, the legislative history of the Railway
Labor Act shows a consistent purpose on the part of

636

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Statement of the Case.

312 U.S.

Congress to establish and maintain a system for peaceful
adjustment and mediation voluntary in its nature.' The
District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals properly
decided that petitioner was not required by the Railway
Labor Act to seek adjustment of his controversy with
the railroad as a prerequisite to suit for wrongful discharge. But, for failure to follow state law on the state
statute of limitations, the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals is reversed; the judgment of the District
Court is affirmed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER concurs

in the result.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. ESTATE OF ENRIGHT LT AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
THIRD CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

No. 436. Argued March 4, 1941.-Decided March 31, 1941.
Section 42 of the Revenue Act of 1934 permits the inclusion, as accruable items, in a decedent's gross income for the period ending with
his death, of his share of the profits earned, but not yet received,
by a partnership, although both the decedent and his firm kept their
accounts and made their income tax reports on a calendar year cash
receipts and disbursements basis. P. 640.
So held of a deceased member of a law firm in respect of his share
of the earned portion of the estimated receipts from the unfinished
business of the firm, valued as of the date of his death.
112 F. 2d 919, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 311 U. S. 638, to review the reversal of a
decision of the Board of Tax Appeals sustaining a
deficiency assessment.

See, e. g., H. Rep. No. 328, 69th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 4.

