'410

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

312 U. S.

EQUITABLE LIFE INSURANCE CO. OF IOWA v.
HALSEY, STUART & CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE-

SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 291. Argued January 15, 16, 1941.-Decided March 3, 1941.
1. In an action in a federal court for damages resulting from sales
of securities on representations of fact affecting their value alleged
to have been false and fraudulent, the right of recovery is governed
by the law of the State in which the representations and sales
were made. P. 420.
2. Stipulations by which one attempts to avoid the consequences
of false statements fraudulently or recklessly made are strictly
construed in the courts of Iowa. P. 419.
3. Assuming that a dealer in securities who offers bonds by a
printed circular containing false representations is protected from
liability for them, and for like statements made later, by a "hedge
clause" in a circular reading: "All statements herein are official,
or are based &n information which we regard as reliable, and
while we do not guarantee them, we ourselves have relied upon
them in the purchase of this security," the protection does not
extend to misrepresentations of other and different facts made after
submisson of the circular to the purchaser. P. 419.
4. A buyer of bonds who relies to his injury upon material false
representations by the seller of conditions affecting their value,
is not under Iowa law precluded from recovering his damage by
his failure to make his own investigation to ascertain whether the
representations are true. P. 424.
5. The trial court correctly instructed the jury, in conformity to
Iowa law, that to find a verdict for the purchaser of the bonds
it must find that the untrue statements were known by the seller
to be untrue or were, miiade as true with no reasonable ground for
believing them to be true, and it correctly submitted to the jury
the question whether such statements, ireluding those in the hedge
clause itself, were recklessly made without reasonable ground for
believing them to be true. P. 420.
6. Upon evidence that the seller of bonds had induced their purchase
by exhibiting to the buyer the balance sheet of a corporation,
which had guaranteed the payment of the bonds, without disclosing circumstances known to the seller indicating that since the

EQUITABLE CO. v. HALSEY, STUART & CO. 411
410

Opinion of the Court.

date of the balance sheet the financial condition of the corporation
had been seriously impaired, held that the trial court, in conformity to Iowa law, correctly submitted the evidence to' the jury
with the instruction that it could find the seller liible for fraud
or misrepresentation from such partial disclosure accompanied by
wilful concealment of material facts inconsistent with those stated
in the balance sheet. P. 425.
112 F. 2d 302, reversed.

311 U. S. 626, to review a judgment reversing a recovery of damages in the District Court. The
action was based on fraud practiced in sales of public
improvement bonds.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Joseph G. Gamble, with whom Mr. Alden B. Howland was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Edward R. Johnston, with whom Mr. Floyd E.
Thompson was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petitioner brought this suit in the District Court for
Northern Illinois to recover damages suffered by reason
of alleged fraudulent statements made by respondent's
agents which induced petitioner to purchase of respondent a large number of Longview (Washington) local improvement bonds. The trial to a jury resulted in a verdict and judgment for petitioner in the sum of $66,150.
The Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit reversed
on the ground that some of the untrue statements, on the
faith of which petitioner had purchased the bonds, were
within the protection of the "hedge clause" which appeared in a circular by which respondent had offered the
bonds for sale to petitioner. The clause read:
"All statements herein are official, or are based on
information which we regard as reliable, and while we do,

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

not guarantee them, we ourselves have relied upon them
in the purchase of this security."
The court found that another untrue statement contained in a letter written by respondent's agent to petitioner was "carelessly made," but, taken alone, was too
trivial in its effect in inducing petitioner to purchase the
bonds, to support the verdict. It also held that there
was no breach of legal duty on the part of respondent
or its officers in their failure to reveal to petitioner facts
known to respondent indicating that a financial statement of a guarantor of the bonds, submitted to petitioner
by respondent's agent, on the faith of which petitioner
had bought the bonds, did not truly represent the financial condition of the guarantor. We granted certiorari,
311 U. S. 626, upon a petition which asserted the failure
of the court below to follow state law in its rulings, the
questions presented being of public importance because
they involve the relation of the federal courts to the
states.
We summarize briefly the evidence submitted to the
jury which bears on the contentions made before us.
Respondent is a large dealer in bonds and securities, with
an office in Chicago. Petitioner is an Iowa corporation
having its office and principal place of business in Iowa
where the transactions resulting in the sale of the bonds
in question took place. In May, 1930, respondent
through an agent offered to sell petitioner a quantity of
the bonds of the Longview local improvement districts.
The offering was by printed circular issued by respondent
on April 7, 1927, which described the bonds as payable
from proceeds of special assessments to be levied upon
the benefited properties and stated that their payment
was guaranteed principal and interest by Long-Bell Lumber Company, whose balance sheet for the year ending
December 31, 1926, was printed in the circular. The
circular stated-

EQUITABLE CO. v. HALSEY, STUART & CO. 413
410

Opinion of the Court.

"Longview is situated about 133 miles south of Seattle
at the confluence of the Columbia and Cowlitz Rivers.
It has a frontage of 714 miles on the former, and is a
port of call for ocean-going vessels midway between
Portland and the Pacific Ocean ....

Because of its

natural advantages and proximity to the timber stands
of the Long-Bell and Weyerhaeuser interests, Longview
was selected as the site for the vast lumber manufacturing plants of these companies. The present output of
the Long-Bell plants is 1,800,000 board feet per day.
The Weyerhaeuser plants are under construction. Manufacturing plants have also been erected by other concerns, including the Longview Concrete Pipe Company,
the Pacific Straw Paper & Board Company, the Magor
Car Corporation, the Standard Oil Company, Longview
Paint & Varnish Company, and the Central Mill Works.
The first unit of the plants of the Longview Fibre Company, to cost 21/2 million dollars, is now well under way."
The circular contained the "hedge clause" which has
already been quoted.
In making the offering, respondent's agent also informed a vice president of petitioner that the bonds were
secured by assessments on properties in the City of Longview and as additional security carried the full and complete guarantee of the Long-Bell Lumber Company
which was a very large, long established company doing
business in the south and west; and that Local Improvement Districts Nos. 11 and 19, against which most of the
bonds were issued, were practically co-extensive with the
limits of the city.
After reading the circular petitioner's vice president
requested of respondent's agent additional information
about Longview and the property there and about the
Long-Bell Lumber Company, which he supplied in a
number of documents. One was a booklet issued by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

Longview Company, a subsidiary of Long-Bell Lumber
Company, engaged in selling Longview real estate. The
booklet showed a map on which the mills of Long.view
Lumber Company, the property of the Weyerhaeuser
Timber Company and the City of Longview appeared to
extend to and along the northerly side of the Columbia
River. The map bore a legend reciting that it "is intended to show in a general way the relation of the various parts of the city site to each other, and location of
the city in relation to water, railroad and highway transportation facilities." Another document was advance
proof of an advertisement of the Longview Company,
published in the Saturday Evening Post. It contained
an illustration of extensive manufacturing plants, beneath which it was stated "The thoroughly modern electrically operated manufacturing plants shown in the
above sketch are in Longview, Wn. They produce
1,800,000 feet of Douglas fir lumber a day. The buildings cover 72 acres. Six ocean-going freighters can load
at one time at the Long-Bell docks." Another document
was a booklet issued by the Longview Chamber of Commerce containing statements from which it could reasonably be inferred that the manufacturing plants of the
Long-Bell Lumber Company and the Weyerhaeuser Tim-ber Company were within the City of Longview and that
the latter was on the Longview waterfront along the
Columbia River.
Still another document, which will presently be discussed, was the published balance sheet for the year ending December 31, 1929, of the Long-Bell Lumber Company. Respondent's sales manager, on May 15, 1930,
also wrote to petitioner's vice president a letter offering
the first $100,000 of bonds purchased by petitioner, saying, "We believe you have before you practically all the
data covering this issue of bonds," and "you observe, of
course, that this city has no funded debt other than these

EQUITABLE CO. v. HALSEY, STUART & CO. 415
410

Opinion of the Court.

improvement bonds and that the original debt has been
materially reduced through retirement and maturity."
It is not seriously contended here that petitioner did
not purchase the bonds on the faith of the statements
which we have detailed and others of similar character,
nor is it denied that the Long-Bell, Weyerhaeuser, Longview Fibre and Standard Oil Company plants were all
outside the city limits of Longview and that none of
those properties were subject to assessments in any of
the improvement districts. The mill properties were located between the Columbia River and the limits of the
City of Longview. The city never had a frontage of 71/4
miles upon the Columbia River and no such frontage at
all except for a distance of about 200 yards adjacent to
the Longview dock and not within the improvement districts. Substantially all of the land included within the
local improvement districts of Longview was also included within a diking district known as Cowlitz County
Consolidated Diking District No. 1, which in May, 1930,
when the negotiations for the sale of the bonds to petitioner took place, had outstanding bonds in the sum of
$2,554,000 payable from the proceeds of special assessments to be levied upon substantially all lands within the
improvement districts. Respondent had purchased the
entire issue of diking bonds from the Long-Bell Lumber
Company in 1925 and later resold them to the public.
At the trial a vice president of respondent, called by
petitioner as an adverse witness, testified that in purchasing the local improvement'district bonds respondent gave
no consideration to the special assessments against Longview real estate; that respondent regarded Long-Bell
Lumber Company's guarantee as the sole justification for
handling the bonds and would not have handled them
without the guarantee. None of these facts detailed by
the witness were communicated to petitioner in advance
of the sale of the bonds.

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

A close business relationship had existed between respondent and Long-Bell Lumber Company for some
years before 1930. It had purchased from the Lumber
Company and sold to customers $25,000,000 of its first
mortgage bonds between 1922 and 1926, and.in some of
its offerings it had been referred to as the "fiscal agent"
of the Long-Bell Lumber Company. In 1926 it had purchased from the Lumber Company and-resold $3,250,000
of its bonds. In the years 1925, 1926 and 1927 it purchased from the Lumber Company and later resold more
than $3,000,000 of the Longview local improvement district bonds.
The Long-Bell Lumber Company balance-sheet for
1929, to which we have referred, disclosed total assets
of more than $116,000,000 with current assets of cash
and inventories amounting to more than $15,000,000.
Current liabilities were less than $8,000,000 including
bank loans of $4,000,000. The funded debt of Long-Bell
and all subsidiaries was less than $42,000,000, and capital and surplus were shown in excess of $59,000,000.
There was much evidence from which the jury could
have found that the Lumber Company, prior to the first
sale of the bonds to petitioner in May, 1930, had, by
more or less regular reports, kept respondent closely
advised of developments at Longview and generally of
its financial condition. Among the data transmitted
were documents produced from respondent's files showing that in 1927 sales of Longview real estate by the
Lumber Company's real estate subsidiary had practically
ceased; that during 1928 properties already sold were
being taken back on the forfeiture of installment sales
contracts, and that in April and May of that year forfeitures and repurchases in number and valuation of
properties equalled new sales; that in 1928 respondent
conducted market operations in the securities of the
Lumber Company and asked $75,000 as compensation

EQUITABLE CO. v. HALSEY, STUART & CO. 417
410

Opinion of the Court.

for bringing about an improvement in their market quotations.
During the early months of 1930 and before the first
sale of bonds to petitioner, which occurred on May 17th,
there were frequent communications of information from
the Long-Bell -Lumber Company to respondent from
which the jury could have found that respondent was
advised of the progressive financial deterioration and
loss of credit of the Long-Bell Lumber Company. These
included discussion of, an attempt to consolidate the
Long-Bell Company with other lumber producers in the
effort, as stated by Long-Bell's officers to respondent,
"to meet quickly an acute and distressing situation";
efforts to procure loans and to convert Long-Bell property
into cash; "to strengthen the Lumber Company's current financial condition by converting physical assets
into working capital to meet current requirements";
unsuccessful efforts in March and April to market
secured bonds and note issues of the Long-Bell Lumber Company, unsuccessful efforts by respondent in
May to secure financing for Long-Bell by New York
banking houses. There was evidence from which the
jury could have found that respondent had been advised
by the Long-Bell Company, that the officers of the Chase
National Bank of New York and a large St. Louis bank
had withdrawn and refused to renew the Long-Bell
Company's line of bank credit and that the Chase Bank
had advised strengthening of the Lumber Company's
current financial position, and had suggested the formation for credit purposes of a subsidiary corporation to
which the Long-Bell could transfer its liquid assets for
purposes of borrowing operations. This advice was carried into effect in October, 1930. None of these circumstances showing the changed financial condition of the
Long-Bell Lumber Company after its December 31, 1929
statement or any of the information of respondent with
301335°--41-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

-respect to them were revealed by respondent- or known
to petitioner before purchasing the improvement bonds.
Petitioner purchased from respondent $353,000 of the
bonds, $100,000 on May 17, 1930, $26,000 in September,
$211,000 in October, $13,000 in January, 1931 and $3,000
in February. Of these, $279,000 were bonds of districts
11 and 19, which were the two districts which embraced
substantially the whole City of Longview. In 1934 the
Long-Bell Lumber Company filed a petition' for reorganization under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act. By
the decree in the reorganization proceeding the Lumber
Company was relieved of its guarantee of the improvement district bonds, the petitioner receiving 8 and
4/10ths shares of common stock in the reorganized corporation in lieu of the guarantee on each $1,000 bond.
Petitioner's case as submitted to the jury was in substance that it had been induced to purchase the bonds
by, untrue statements knowingly or recklessly made by
respondent's officers and agents as follows: (1) That the
extensive mill properties of the Long-Bell Lumber Company, the Weyerhaeuser Timber Company, the Longview
Fibre Company and others were located in Longview
and subject to assessment in Local Improvement Districts Nos. 11 or 19, the limits of which were substantially co-extensive with the limits of the city; (2) that
Longview had a frontage of 71/4 miles upon the Columbia
River which, if true, would locate the mill properties
within the corporate limits; (3) that the improvement
bonds were the only bonds constituting a charge or lien
upon the lands in the improvement districts of the City;
and, finally, (4) that respondent's officers and agents had
in May, 1930, made representations of the strong financial position shown in the 1929 balance sheet of the
Long-Bell Lumber Company which had guaranteed the
improvement bonds, without disclosing to petitioner the
knowledge which it then had or later acquired before

EQUITABLE CO. v. HALSEY, STUART & CO. 419,
410

Opinion of the Court.

the sale of the bonds, that the Long-Bell Company was
in fact in a declining and precarious financial condition.
The Court of Appeals held that the various statements
and information given by respondent's officers and
agents, after respondent's offering circular had been submitted to petitioner, were substantially the same as
those made in the circular itself and therefore were under
the protection of the hedge clause which had been printed
in the circular. Stipulations by which one attempts to
avoid the consequences of false statements fraudulently
or recklessly made are strictly construed in the Iowa
courts. Jordan v. Nelson, 178 N. W. 544. We are cited
to no Iowa authority to the effect that such a clause
applies or affords protection to any except the statements to which it refers. But we assume for present
purposes, without deciding, as the Court of Appeals held,
that the hedge clause extended its proteetion to later
statements made by respondent like those contained in
the circular. But in reaching its conclusion the court
overlooked the fact that the documents and statements
which followed the submission of the circular to petitioner were in response to a request by petitioner for
additional information and contained items of information not found in the circular.
Among them was the December 31, 1929, financial
statement of the Long-Bell Lumber Company, the advertising map bearing a legend indicating the city's frontage on the river and the location of the taxing districts
within the city limits, other advertising material containing pictures indicating the location of the Long-Bell
and other plants within thfe city limits, and the statement made to petitioner by respondent's sales manager
that the city, which was co-extensive with the improvement district, had no funded debt. The court also failed
to consider the question whether, under Iowa law, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1940..
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

hedge clause afforded to respondent protection from untrue statements recklessly made, whether the statements
in the circular and others later submitted to petitioner
were recklessly made, and whether the hedge clause itself
contained statements known to respondent to be untrue
and had a material influence in inducing petitioner's purchase of the bonds.
It is obvious that the jury could have found that statements having persuasive influence in promoting the sale
of the improvement bonds to the petitioner were: the
statement as to the location along that waterfront and
within the Improvement District of extensive manufacturing plants which would thus be subject to assessment
for payment of the bonds, the statement that the city
had no funded indebtedness other than the improvement
bonds, and the representations as to the strong financial
position of the Long-Bell Lumber Company which was
guarantor of payment of the bonds. If, as the jury
found, petitioner relied on these representations to its
injury, it is immaterial, as appears to be conceded, that
petitioner did not make its own investigation to ascertain
whether they were true. Gardner v. Trenary, 65 Iowa
646; 22 N. W. 912; Creamer v. Stevens, 192 Iowa 920;
185 N. W. 581; Ford v. Ott, 186 Iowa 820; 173 N. W.
121.
The trial court correctly charged the jury in accordance with the Iowa decisions, in substance, that as a prerequisite to a verdict for petitioner, it must find that the
representations in question were known by respondent to
be false or were made as true with no reasonable ground
for believing them to be true, but that if they were believed by respondent to be true and were made without
reckless disregard as to their truth or falsity, and without
intention to deceive petitioner, petitioner could not recover. The question of respondent's recklessness was
thus submitted to the jury and we think properly so

EQUITABLE CO. v. HALSEY, STUART & CO. 421
410

Opinion of the Court.

upon the evidence. Hanson v. Kline, 136 Iowa 101; 113
N. W. 504; Davis v. CentralLand Co., 162 Iowa 269; 143
N. W. 1073; Hai'h v. White Way Laundry Co., 164 Iowa
143; 145 N. W. 473.
Respondent's witness, a vice president in charge of its
municipal bond issues, testified that he assembled the
data appearing in the circular submitted by respondent
to petitioner witliout his ever having visited the City
of Longview and without making -any inquiry of the
city officials or representatives as to the truth of the
matters stated in the circular. So far as appears no
such inquiry was made by respondent'or in its behalf
before the sale of the bonds to petitioner. The witness
stated that he had obtained the information from the
offices of the Long-Bell Lumber Company at Kansas
City and Longview; that he had submitted the circular
when prepared to the general counsel of the Long-Bell
Lumber Company at Kansas City, who had approved
it. Whether counsel had any personal knowledge of
the matters stated in the circular, or what he stated to
respondent with respect to it, does not appear. The information about the 714 mile frontage of the city on
the Columbia River and the location of the Long-Bell,
Weyerhaeuser and other plants within the limits of
the improvement districts was compiled by the witness
from advertising copy suggested by the advertising manager of the Long-Bell Lumber Company. His recollection was that some of this information came from an address made "by one of the Long-Bell land agents at
Longview."
No testimony was forthcoming to show
that any executive officer of the Long-Bell Lumnber Company gave assurances of the truth or accuracy of this information, or
that any of them believed it to be true. When the witness sought this information in October, 1930, he
promptly obtained the correct information from the Long-

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

-

312 U. S.

view tax authorities. The evidence is conflicting
whether this information ever was communicated to petitioner, and if so whether before its October purchase of
the bonds. Petitioner's testimony was that it first acquired the information in June, 1931. Two of respondent's vice presidents had visited Longview two or more
times in 1922 and 1924 in connection with the purchase by
respondent of Long-Bell bond issues. Both testified as
witnesses, but neither of them denied knowledge of the
location of the corporate limits of the City of Longview
and of the mill properties. Another vice president in
charge of purchases of municipal issues had made a trip
to Longview in 1925 and while there had entered into a
contract with the Lumber Company for the purchase from
it by respondent of the improvement bonds. He also arranged in that year for the purchase from Long-Bell
Lumber Company by respondent of the diking district
bonds, already referred to. This vice president, having
died, did not testify, but there was testimony by his
assistant and successor that the location of the diking
district was ascertained by respondent at that time.
The only identified sources of respondent's information as to the location of the city on the river and the location of the manufacturing plants with respect to the
taxing districts, were an advertising agent of the LongBell Lumber Company, a land agent acting either for the
Long-Bell Lumber Company or its subsidiary, and a
map with descriptive material printed on it appearing
as a part of a published advertisement of the Longview
Company, which promoted the real estate enterprise in
Longview. None of this information was verified by
any responsible official of the Long-Bell Lumber Company nor by any official or representative of the City of
Longview, and no such verification appears to have been
sought by respondent. We think it was for the jury to
say whether statements resting upon such flimsy support,

EQUITABLE CO. v. HALSEY, STUART & CO. 423
410

Opinion of the Court.

made as the basis for a public offering of municipal bonds
aggregating more than $3,000,000, were recklessly made,
or were without reasonable basis for the assertion of their
truth to prospective investors.
The court below thought the statement made by respondent's sales manager, despite the outstanding diking
district bonds, that the city was without funded debt
other than the improvement district bonds, was carelessly
made but trivial in its effect in inducing the purchase of
the bonds. But we cannot say that the trial court
should not have left it to the jury to decide whether this
statement was knowingly false or recklessly made, or
whether in all the circumstances it materially influenced
petitioner's purchase of the bonds. Moreover, we think
that in all the circumstances of the case the trial court
rightly left it to the jury to say whether in fact respondent in the course of its investigation, through its vice
presidents or others, of issues of bonds totalling more than
$30,000,000, issued either by the City of Longview or the
Long-Bell Lumber Company or bearing its guarantee,
became aware of the actual location of the properties in
question.
Petitioner also insists that the jury could have found
that the hedge clause itself was known by respondent to
be untrue when made. The clause declared that the
statements contained in the circular "are based on information which we regard as reliable and ... we ourselves
have relied upon them in the purchase of this security."
Yet, respondent's vice president in charge of municipal
issues, who had prepared the offering circular, testified,
without contradiction, "We bought and sold the bonds
solely on the guarantee of the Long-Bell Lumber Company paying no attention whatever to the valuation of
the lands upon which the assessments were laid." Upon
this state of the record the jury could have found that
the hedge clause itself was untrue and would mislead

424

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

prospective purchasers to the erroneous belief that Halsey, Stuart & Co. regarded the bonds as worthy investments on their merits either independently or in conjunction with the guarantee. It could have found also
that its materiality was of added importance in influencing the sale of the bonds in view of the knowledge of respondent, not disclosed to petitioner, that the Long-Bell
Lumber Company was already in financial straits.
While it is arguable, as the court below thought,
whether in view of all the circumstances petitioner placed
more or less reliance upon the obligations attaching to
a municipal security on the one hand or upon the guarantee of the Long-Bell Lumber Company on the other, or
whether it would have scrutinized more searchingly the
guarantee had it known that respondent depended on
that alone, these are arguments for the jury and not the
court.
The court below held that the failure of respondent to
reveal to petitioner its knowledge of the declining financial status of the Long-Bell Lumber Company, which respondent acquired in the early months of 1930, fell short
of establishing fraud or breach of legal duty on its part.
The court reached this conclusion on the grounds that
there was no fiduciary relationship between respondent
and petitioner; that the 1929 balance sheet of the Lumber
Company was not shown to be an untruthful statement
of the financial condition of the Company at that time;
that respondent did not seek additional information as to
the financial condition of the Company, and if it had done
so could readily have ascertained its condition from other
sources.
But we think that, under Iowa law, these factors did
not, in the circumstances of this case, relieve respondent
of the duty to speak. As we have said, petitioner was
under no duty to make an independent investigation of
the truth of respondent's statements if, as the jury found,

EQUITABLE CO. v. HALSEY, STUART & CO. 425
410

Opinion of the Court.

it relied on those statements in the purchase of the bonds.
Respondent furnished the balance sheet in response to
petitioner's request for information about the Lumber
Company after emphasizing to petitioner the Company's
guarantee of the improvement bonds and stating "we believe you have before you practically all the data covering
this issue of bonds." From the evidence the jury could
have found that the balance sheet was submitted to petitioner as one of the bases of the pending negotiation and
as a representation, that it disclosed, so far as known to
respondent, the financial condition of the Company, that
notwithstanding such representation respondent then
knew that the Company's financial condition had so.
steadily and seriously declined after the date of the balance sheet as to impair substantially the value of the
guarantee, and that this statement of a half truth had
materially assisted in the sale of the bonds to petitioner.
The trial court instructed the jury:
"It is the duty of one selling securities, who attempts
to supply a prospective purchaser with facts concerning
the issue, not only to state truthfully what he actually
tells, but also not to suppress any facts within his knowledge which will materially change or alter the effect of
the facts actually stated. To tell Tess than the whole
truth may constitute a false and fraudulent representation. A partial and fragmentary disclosure of certain
facts concerning an issue of securities, accompanied by
the willful concealment of material facts which change
the effect of the facts actually stated, is as much a fraud
as an actual positive misrepresentation."
By this instruction and others of like tenor the court left
the jury free to apply to the evidence the generally accepted doctrine adopted by the American Law Institute,
Restatement of Torts, §§ 529, 551. Section 529 states:
"A statement in a business transaction which, while
stating the truth so far as it goes, the maker knows or be-

426

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

312 U.S.

lieves to be materially misleading because of his failure
to state qualifying matter is a fraudulent misrepresentation."
Such a statement of a half truth is as much a misrdpresentation as if the facts stated were untrue. The court's
charge was in conformity to Iowa law as disclosed by its
judicial opinions. See Howard v. McMillen, 101 Iowa
453; 70 N. W. 623; Noble v. Renner, 177 Iowa 509; 159
N. W. 214; Foreman v. Dugan, 205 Iowa 929; 218 N. W.
912. No argument made or authority cited here persuades us that the Supreme Court of Iowa would, upon
the evidence presented, apply any different rule. See
Wichita Royalty Co. v. City National Bank, 306 U. S.
103, 107; cf. West v. American Telephone & Telegraph
Co., 311 U. S.223.
Respondent has raised numerous other questions which
were not considered by the court below. This cause will
therefore be reversed and remanded to the Court of Appeals for further proceedings not inconsistent with this
opinion.
Reversed.
NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v. EXPRESS PUBLISHING CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 442.

Argued February 14, 1941.-Decided March 3, 1941.

1. A respondent employer can not attack, as without support in the
evidence, findings of the National Labor Relations Board which
were the basis of its order and of a judgment sustaining it which
the employer has not sought to review. P. 431.
2. Where' an employer is found to have refused to bargain collectively
in violation of § 8 (5) of the National Labor Relations Act, the
Board's order may properly- require him to cease and desist from

