CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1940
SIBBACH v. WILSON & CO., INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 28. Argued December 17, 1940.-Decided January 13, 1941.
1. Congress has power to regulate the practice and procedure of
federal courts, and may exercise it by delegating to the Supreme
or other federal courts authority to make rules not inconsistent
with the statutes or Constitution of the United States. P. 9.
2. The Act of June 19, 1934, empowering the Supreme Court to
prescribe rules for the District Courts of the United States in
civil actions, was restricted in its operation to matters of pleading,
practice and procedure. P. 10.
3. In so far as they are within the authority granted by Congress,
the Rules of Civil Procedure prescribed by the Supreme Court
under authority of the Act of June 19, 1934 repeal the Conformity
Act. P. 10.
4. Rule 35 of the Rules of Civil Procedure for the District Courts
of the United States, which provides that, in a suit in which the
physical or mental condition of a party is in controversy, the
court may order the party to submit to a physical or mental
examination by a physician, held within the authority granted
by Congress in the Act of June 19, 1934, and consistent with
the limitation of that Act that the rules prescribed shall not abridge,
enlarge or modify the "substantive rights" of any litigant. P. 14.
5. Union Pacific Ry. Co. v. Botsford, 141 U. S. 250, and Camden
& Suburban Ry. v. Stetson, 177 U. S. 172, explained. P. 11.
6. Rules 35 and 37 of the Rules of Civil Procedure are rules of
procedure, and their prescription did not exceed the authority
granted by the Act of June 19, 1934 merely because they involve
"important" or "substantial" rights. P. 13.
301335o-41-1.
1

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Petitioner.

312 U. S.

7. That Congress reserved the power to examine, before they should
become effective, rules proposed pursuant to the Act, and took
no adverse action in respect of Rule 35, indicates that no transgression of legislative policy was found. P. 15.
8. Refusal to obey an order under Rule 35 requiring a party to
submit to a physical or mental examination is exempted by Rule
37 (b) (2) (iv) from punishment as for a contempt. The remedies for such refusal are those enumerated in Rule 37 (b) (2) (i),
(ii), and (iii). P. 16.
9. The action of the District Court in this case, punishing as for
contempt a refusal to obey an order under Rule 35 requiring a
plaintiff to submit to a physical examination, was such plain error
as this Court may notice, although not assigned or specified either
in the Circuit Court of Appeals or here. P. 16.
108 F. 2d 415, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 309 U. S. 650, to review the affirmance of
an order committing for contempt.
Mr. James A. Velde, with whom Messrs. Royal W.

Irwin and Lambert Kaspers were on the brief, for petitioner.
It may be that an order compelling the plaintiff to
submit to a physical examination does not determine the

right which the plaintiff seeks to have adjudicated in the
litigation, and in that aspect involves "procedure" and

not "substantive law."

Nevertheless, the order invades

"substantive rights."
Does the field of "rights" excluded from the rule-making power include only the rights that determine the
outcome of litigation, the ultimate rights sought to be

adjudicated by the litigants?

Clearly, Congress may

not delegate to the courts the power to declare by rule
what rights of this character exist.

Procedural devices may invade human rights that the
common law has long sought to protect. The doctrine
of the separation of powers alone, apart from other con-

stitutional limitations, forbids Congress to delegate rulemaking power as to a procedural device of this character.

SIBBACH v. WILSON & CO.
1

Argument for Petitioner.

The question is whether the particular matter is "exclusively legislative" or "judicial."
If the matter involves a general principle or a question
of public policy that the legislature is able to pass upon,
it should not be dealt with by a rule of court, but by a
legislative enactment.
Obvious examples of procedural devices that affect important rights, and so involve broad questions of policy,
are those that violate constitutional limitations, such as
the due process clause. See Kring v. Missouri, 107 U. S.
221.
Common law privileges and inhibitions against testifying-such as the disability of a party to testify or of
one spouse to testify for or against the other-are a part
of the law of evidence and so within the field of "procedure." Yet, whether or not they should have a place
in our legal system is of great public interest,-an important question of public policy. May Congress delegate to the courts the power to determine such questions
by court rule?
Apparently Congress believed, since procedure may
extend to the line where "substantive law" begins, it
was desirable not to delegate to the Court the power to
make rules that abridge, enlarge, or modify some important rights involyed in procedure. It is significant
that the Act uses the words "substantive rights" rather
than "substantive law."
If rules of "procedure" could not be construed to involve "substantive rights," the second sentence in the
Act would be surplusage.
Decisions of this Court indicate that an order for a
physical examination modifies substantive rights. Union
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Botsford, 141 U. S. 250; Camden &
Suburban Ry. Co. v. Stetson, 177 U. S. 172.
Rule 35 is grouped with others under the heading
"Depositions and Discovery." While it may seem to

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Respondent.

312 U. S.

involve merely a question of discovery, in fact it differs
markedly from the other rules, which merely permit a
litigant to obtain before trial the discovery of matters
that have always been provable at the trial by testimony
obtainable by a subpoena ad testificandum or a subpoena
duces tecum. This shift does not involve a change in
substantive rights. Also, litigants have been ,able to obtain in equity some of the same remedies that are provided by Rules 26, 33, and 34, which thus do not effect
a change in rights. Rule 35, in providing a method of
physical examination before trial, would permit what has
not been heretofore permitted at the trial or at any other
stage of the proceeding. Also, as pointed out in the
Stack case, 177 Mass. 155, an order for a physical examination was not procurable in equity. These considerations show why Rule 35 abridges substantive rights while
Rules 26, 33, and 34 do not.
As a discovery device Rule 35 is of little value, at least
in a court sitting in Illinois, where communications between patient and physician are not privileged. By
-taking the deposition of the plaintiff and the plaintiff's
physician, the defendant is able to discover all that the
plaintiff knows about the plaintiff's own case.
The law of Indiana is inapplicable. An order for a
physical examination is governed by the law of the forum.
Mr. J. F. Dammann, with whom Mr. K. F. Montgomery was on the brief, for respondent.
Under the law of Indiana, where this cause of action
arose, the courts have the power to enter an order directing a physical examination. City of South Bend v.
Turner, 156 Ind. 418; Aspy v. Botkins, 160 Ind. 170;
Kokomo M. & W. Co. v. Walsh, 58 Ind. App. 182; Lake
Erie & W. R. Co. v. Griswold, 72 Ind. App. 265; City of
Valparaiso v. Kinney, 75 Ind. App. 660. That matters
of substantive law are controlled by the law of the State

SIBBACH v. WILSON & CO.
I

Argument for Respondent.

where the cause of action arose was settled by this Court
in Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64.
If the matter involved in the order is one of procedure,
then it is controlled by the Rules of Civil Procedure.
Congress has the power and duty to prescribe the
procedure in the federal courts, and that power can be
validly delegated to the courts. Wayman v. Southard,
10 Wheat. 1.; Beers v. Haughton, 9 Pet. 328; Bank of
U. S. v. Halstead, 10 Wheat. 22, 27.
The Act authorizes rules covering the entire field of
practice and procedure.
Rule 35 does not involve substantive law, nor abridge
or modify a substantive right established by substantive
law. The substantive rights in this case are those out
of which the right of action arose. The rule affects
merely the procedure whereby that right of action is
sought to be determined; it is a part of the means
whereby the court determines the facts upon which the
right of action is based.
The facts and ,opinion in Union Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Botsford, 141 U. S. 250, demonstrate that the matter is
procedural.
Camden & Suburban Ry. Co. v. Stetson, 177 U. S. 172,
does not hold that the matter is one of substantive law.
There was no question before the Court requiring any
distinction between substantive and procedural law.
The contention that the term "substantive rights"
means rights that are important or of substance is untenable. No litigant has a substantive right in any kind
of procedure. Luria v. United States, 231 U. S. 9; Ochoa
v. Hernandez, 230 U. S. 139; Bronson v. Kinzie, 1 How.
311; McCracken v. Hayward, 2 How. 608; Home Bldg.
& Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S. 398.
The court is asked to adopt an entirely new theory and
to place the dividing line with reference to the rule-making power, not between substantive law and procedural

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.

6

Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

law but between two classes of procedural law. One of
these would include ordinary matters and be within the
rule-making power. The other would include substantial and important matters and not be within the rulemaking power. Such a theory would make the practice
and procedure of the federal courts far more confusing
than it was before the rules were promulgated.
Moreover, any such theory would nullify many of the
rules. A casual review of merely the headings will show
that many deal with "substantial" and "important" matters.
Rule 35 does not discriminate against plaintiffs.
Mr. William D. Mitchell filed a brief, as amicus curiae,
urging that Rules 35 and 37 do not authorize arrest or
imprisonment for refusal to obey an order for physical
examination; and, so construed, are valid.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTs

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case calls for decision as to the validity of Rules
35 and 37 of the Rules of Civil Procedure for District
Courts of the United States.1
In an action brought by the petitioner in the District
Court for Northern Illinois to recover damages for bodily
injuries, inflicted in Indiana, respondent answered denying the allegations of the complaint, and moved for an
order requiring the petitioner to submit to a physical
examination by one or more physicians. appointed by
the court to determine the nature and extent of her injuries. The court ordered that the petitioner submit to
such an examination by a physician so appointed.
Compliance having been refused, the respondent obtained an order to show cause why the petitioner should
'28 U. S. C., following § 723c.

SIBBACH v. WILSON & CO.
Opinion of the Court.

1

not be punished for contempt. In response the petitioner challenged the authority of the court to order her
to submit to the examination, asserting that the order
was void. It appeared that the courts of Indiana, the
state where the cause of action arose, hold such an order
proper,2 whereas the courts of Illinois, the state in which
the trial court sat, hold that such an order cannot be
made.3 Neither state has any statute governing the
matter.
The court adjudged the petitioner guilty of contempt,
and directed that she be committed until she should obey
the order for examination or otherwise should be legally
discharged from custody. The petitioner appealed.
The Circuit Court of Appeals decided that Rule 35,
which authorizes an order for a physical examination in
such a case, is valid, and affirmed the judgment.' The
writ of certiorari was granted because of the importancmof the question involved.
The Rules of Civil Procedure were promulgated under
the authority of the Act of June 19, 1934," which is:
"Be it enacted . . . That the Supreme Court of the
United States shall have the power to prescribe, by general rules, for the district courts of the United States and
for the courts of the District of Columbia,. the forms of
process, writs, pleadings, and motions, and the practice
and procedure in civil actions at law. Said rules shall
neither abridge, enlarge, nor modify the substantive
'South Bend v..Turner, 156 Ind. 418; 60 N. E. 271; Aspy v. Botkins, 160 Ind. 170; 66 N. E. 462; Lake Erie & W. R. Co. v. Griswold,
72 Ind. App. 265; 125 N. E. 783; Valparaisov. Kinney, 75 Ind. App.

660; 131 N. E. 237.
'Chicago v.McNally, 227 Ill..14; 81 N.E. 23; Mattice v. Klawans,
312 IIl. 299; 143 N. E. 866; Illinois v. Scott, 326 III. 327; 157 N. E.

247.
108 F. 2d 415..
'c.651, 48 Stat. 1064; 28 U. S. C. § 723 b, c.

8

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

rights of any litigant. They shall take effect six months
after their promulgation, and thereafter all laws in conflict therewith shall be of no further force or effect.
"Sec. 2. The court may at any time unite the general
rules prescribed by it for cases in equity with those in
actions at law so as to secure one form of civil action
and procedure for both: Provided, however, That in such
union of rules the right of trial by jury as at common
law and declared by the seventh amendment to the Constitution shall be preserved to the parties inviolate.
Such united rules shall not take effect until they shall
have been reported to Congress by the Attorney General at the beginning of a regular session thereof and
until after the close of such session."
The text of the relevant portions of Rules 35 and
37 is:
"Rule 35. Physical and Mental Examination of
Persons.
"(a) Order for Examination. In an action in which
the mental or physical condition of a party is in controversy, the court in which the action is pending may
order him to submit to a physical or mental examination
by a physician: The order may be made only on motion
for good cause shown and upon notice to the party to be
examined and to all other parties and shall specify the
time, place, manner, conditions, and scope of the examination and the person or persons by whom it is to be
made."
"Rule 37. Refusal to Make Discovery: Consequences.
"(a) Refusal to Answer. . ..
"(b) Failure to Comply With Order.
(1) Contempt. If a party or other witness refuses
to be sworn or refuses to answer any question after being
directed to do so by the court in the district in which
the deposition is being taken, the refusal may be considered a contempt of that court.

SIBBACH v. WILSON & CO.
1.Opinion of the Court.

(2) Other Consequences. If any party ... refuses to
obey ... an order made under Rule 35 requiring him
to submit to a physical or mental examination, the court
may make such orders in regard to the refusal as are
just, and among others the following:
(i) An order that . . . the physical or mental condition of the party, . . .shall be taken to be established
for the purposes of the action in accordance with the
claim of the party obtaining the order;
(ii) An order . . . prohibiting [the disobedient party]
from introducing . . . evidence of physical or mental
condition;
(iii) An order striking out pleadings or parts thereof,
or staying further proceedings until the order is obeyed,
or dismissing the action or proceeding or any part thereof, or rendering a judgment by default against the disobedient party;
(iv) In lieu of any of the foregoing orders or in addition thereto, an order directing the arrest of any party or
agent of a party for disobeying any of such orders except
an order to submit to a physical or mental examination."
The contention of the petitioner, in final analysis, is
that Rules 35 and 37 are not within the mandate of Congress to this court. This is the limit of permissible debate, since argument touching the broader questions of
Congressional power and of the obligation of federal
courts to apply the substantive law of a state is foreclosed.
Congress has undoubted power to regulate the practice
and procedure of federal courts,' and may exercise that
power by delegating to this or other federal courts authority to make rules not inconsistent with the statutes
' Wayman v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1, 21; Bank of the United States
v. Halstead, 10 Wheat. 51, 53; Beers v. Haughton, 9 Pet. 329, 359,

361.

10

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

or constitution of the United States; 7 but it has never
essayed to declare the substantive state law, or to abolish
or nullify a right recognized by the substantive law of
the state where the cause of action arose, save where a
right or duty is imposed in a field committed to Congress
by the Constitution. On the contrary it has enacted
that the state law shall be the rule of decision in the federal
courts.'
Hence we conclude that the Act of June 19, 1934, was
purposely restricted in its operation to matters of pleading and court practice I and procedure. Its two provisos
or caveats emphasize this restriction. The first is that
the court shall not "abridge, enlarge, nor modify substantive rights," in the guise of regulating procedure. The
second is that if the rules are to prescribe a single form
of action for cases at law and suits in equity, the constitutional right to jury trial inherent in the former must
be preserved. There are other limitations upon the authority to prescribe rules which might have been, but were
not mentioned in the Act; for instance, the inability of
a court, by rule, to extend or restrict the jurisdiction
conferred by a statute.'
Whatever may be said as to the effect of the Conformity
Act" while it remained in force, the rules, if they are
within the authority granted by Congress, repeal that
statute, and the District Court was not bound to follow
the Illinois practice respecting an order for physical examination. On the other hand if the right to be exempt
from such an order is one of substantive law, the Rules
'Wayman v. Southard, supra, 42; Bank of the United States v.
Halstead, supra, 61; Beers v. Haughton, supra, 359.
11. S. 721, 28 U. S. C. § 725.
Hudson v. Parker, 156 U. S. 277, 284; Venner v. Great Northern
Ry. Co., 209 U. S. 24, 35; Davidson Marble Co. v. Gibson, 213 U. S.
10, 18; I'eek v. Centre County Banking Co., 268 U. S. 426, 434.
" R. S. 914; 28 U. S. C. § 724.

SIBBACH v. WILSON & CO.
I

Opinion of the Court.

of Decision Act 11 required the District Court, though sitting in Illinois, to apply the law of Indiana, the state
where the cause of action arose, and to order the examination. To avoid this dilemma the petitioner admits, and,
we think; correctly, that Rules 35 and 37 are rules of
procedure. She insists, nevertheless, that by the prohibition against abridging substantive rights, Congress has
banned the rules here challenged. In order to reach this.
result she translates "substantive" into "important" or
"substantial" rights. And she urges that if a rule affects
such a right, albeit the rule is one of procedure merely,
its prescription is not within the statutory grant of power
embodied in the Act of June 19, 1934.' She contends that
our decisions and recognized principles require us so to
hold.
The petitioner relies upon Union Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Botsford, 141 U. S. 250, and Camden & Suburban Ry. Co.
v. Stetson, 177 U. S. 172. But these cases in reality sustain the validity of the rules. In the Botsford case an
action to recover for a personal injury suffered in the
territory of Utah 12 was instituted in the United States
Circuit Court for Indiana, which refused to order a physical examination. This court affirmed, on- the ground
that no authority for such an order was shown. There
was no suggestion that the question was one of substantive law. The court first examines the practice at common law and finds that it never recognized such an order.
Then, acknowledging that a statute of the United States
authorizing an order of the sort would be valid, the
opinion finds there is none. Thus the matter is treated.
as one of procedure, for Congress has not, if it could,
declared by statute the substantive law of a state. After
1

Supra, note 8.
"The opinion does not so state, but the record filed in.thi court
so shows.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

stating that the decision law of Indiana on the subject
appeared not to be settled, and that a cited statute of
that State was not in point, the court added that the
question was not one of the law of Indiana but of the
law of the United States and that the federal statutes
by their provisions as to proof in actions at law precluded
the application of the Conformity Act. Again, therefore,
the opinion recognized that the matter is one of procedure, for both the cited federal statutes, concerning
the mode of proof in federal courts, and the Conformity
Act, deal solely with procedure.
In fine, the decision was only that the making of such
an order is regulable by statute, that the federal statutes
forbade it, and hence the Conformity Act could not be
thought to authorize the practice by reference to and
incorporation of state law.
In the Stetson case the action was brought in the District Court for New Jersey by a citizen of Pennsylvania,
who, while a citizen of New Jersey, had been injured in
the latter state. A statute of New Jersey authorized
the state courts to order a physical examination of a
plaintiff in an action for damages pending therein. The
District Court refused to order such an examination on
the ground that i lacked power so to do. After a verdict
and judgment for plaintiff the defendant appealed to
the Circuit Court of Appeals, assigning the refusal as
error. That court certified the question, and this court
answered that the District Court had power to order the
examination.
The court stated that in the Botsford case there was
no statute authorizing such an order, but said that here
there was a state statute which by the Rules of Decision
Act was made a law of the United States and must be
given effect in a trial in a federal court. While it is true
the court referred to the Rules of Decision Act (R. S.
721) and not to the Conformity Act (R. S. 914) the

SIBBACH v. WILSON & CO.
1

Opinion of the Court.

entire discussion goes upon the assumption that the
matter is procedural. In any event, the distinction between substantive and procedural law was immaterial,
for the cause of action arose and the trial was had in
New Jersey."
In the instant case we have a rule which, if within the
power delegated to this court, has the force of a federal
statute, and neither the Botsford nor the Stetson case is
authority for ignoring it.
The remaining case on which petitioner leans is Stack
v. New York, N. H. & H. R. Co., 177 Mass. 155; 58 N. E.
686, where the court agreed with the view expressed in the
Botsford case that common-law practice did not warrant
the entry of such an order and said it was for the legislature
rather than the courts to alter the practice. But if Rule
35 is within the authority granted, the federal legislature
sanctioned it as controlling all district courts.
We are thrown back, then, to the arguments drawn
from the language of the Act of June 19, 1934. Is the
phrase "substantive rights" confined to rights conferred
by law to be protected and enforced in accordance with
the adjective law of judicial procedure? It certainly
embraces such rights. One of them is the right not to
be injured in one's person by another's negligence, to
redress infraction of which the present action was
brought. The petitioner says the phrase connotes more;
that by its use Congress intended that in regulating procedure this court should not deal with important and
substantial rights theretofore recognized. Recognized
where and by whom? The state courts are divided as to
the power in the absence of statute to order a physical
examination.'
In a number such an order is author"As above pointed out, if the matter is one of substantive law,
R. S. 721 requires the application of the law of Indiana, which authorizes an order for examination.
"See Wigmore on Evidence (3d Ed.) § 2220, note 13.

14

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

ized by statute or rule." The rules in question accord
with the procedure now in force in Canada and
England."6
The asserted right, moreover, is no more important
than many others enjoyed by litigants in District Courts
sitting in the several states, before the Federal Rules of
Civil Procedure altered and abolished old rights or privileges and created new ones in connection with the conduct of litigation. The suggestion that the rule offends
the important right to freedom from invasion of the
person ignores the fact that, as we hold, no invasion of
freedom from personal restraint attaches to refusal so
to comply with its provisions. If we were to adopt the
suggested criterion of the importance of the alleged right
we should invite endless litigation and confusion worse
confounded. The test must be whether a rule really
regulates procedure,-the judicial process for enforcing
rights and duties recognized by substantive law and for
justly administering remedy and redress for disregard
or infraction of them. That the rules in question are
such is admitted.
Finally, it is urged that Rules 35 and 37 work a major
change of policy and that this was not intended by Congress. Apart from the fact already stated, that the policy
of the states in this respect has not been uniform, it is to
be noted that the authorization of a comprehensive system of court rules was a departure in policy, and that the
new policy envisaged in the enabling act of 1934 was that
the whole field of court procedure be regulated in the
interest of speedy, fair and exact determination of the
truth. The challenged rules comport with this policy.
Moreover, in accordance with the Act, the rules were sub"5See Notes to the Rules of Civil Procedure, printed by the Advisory Committee March 1938, p. 32.
" Wigmore on Evidence (3d Ed.) § 2220, note 13; 31 & 32 Vict. c.
119, § 26.

SIBBACH v. WILSON & CO.
I

Opinion of the Court.

mitted to the Congress so that that body might examine
them and veto their going into effect if contrary to the
policy of the legislature.
The value of the reservation of the power to examine
proposed rules, laws and regulations before they become
effective is well understood by Congress. It is frequently, as here, employed to make sure that the action
under the delegation squares with the Congressional purpose." Evidently the Congress felt the rule was within
the ambit of the statute as no effort was made to eliminate it from the proposed body of rules, although this
specific rule was attacked and defended before the committees of the two Houses. 8 The Preliminary Draft of
the rules called attention to the contrary practice indicated by the Botsford case, as did the Report of th Advisory Committee and the Notes prepared by the Com',An analogy is found in the organic acts applicable to some of the
territories, before their admission to statehood, which provided that
laws passed by the territorial legislature should be valid unless Congress disapproved. § 5 of the Ordinance of 1787; see Pease v. Peck,
18 How. 595. Territory of Florida, § 5 of the Act of March 30, 1822
(3 Stat. 655); territory of Louisiana, § 4 of the Act of March 26,
1804 (2 Stat. 284), and § 3 of the Act of March 3, 1805 (2 Stat. 331);
territory of Minnesota, § 6 of the Act of March 3, 1849 (9 Stat. 405);
territory of New Mexico, § 7 of the Act of September 9, 1850 (9 Stat.
449); territory of Oregon, § 6 of the Act of August 14, 1848 (9 Stat.
326); territory of Utah, § 6 of the Act of September 9, 1850 (9 Stat.
455); territory of Washington, § 6 of the Act of March 2, 1853 (10
Stat. 175); territory of Wisconsin, § 6 of the Act of April 20, 1836
(5 Stat. 13). Similar provisions are now applicable to Alaska, Puerto
Rico, the Virgin Islands and the Philippines. 48 U.. S. C. §§ 90, 826,
1405(o), 1054.
Cf. the provisions for lying over before Congress in § 407 of the
Act of March 3, 1933 (47 Stat. 1519), and § 5 of the Reorganization
Act of 193 o (53 Stat. 562).
"5Hearings before the Committee on the Judiciary, House of Representatives, 75th Cong., 3rd Sess., pp. 117, 141; Hearings before a
Subcommittee of the Committee on the Judiciary, U. S. Senate,
75th Cong., 3rd Sess., pp. 36-37, 39, 51.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.

16

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

312 U. S.

mittee to accompany the final version of the rules."9
That no adverse action was taken by Congress indicates,
at least, that no transgression of legislative policy was
found. We conclude that the rules under attack are
within the authority granted.
The District Court treated the refusal to comply with
its order as a contempt and committed the petitioner
therefor. Neither in the Circuit Court of Appeals nor
here was this action assigned as error. We think, however, that in the light of the provisions of Rule 37 it was
plain error of such a fundamental nature that we should
notice it. "° Sec'on (b) (2) (iv) of Rule 37 exempts from
punishment as for contempt the refusal to obey an order
that a party submit to a physical or mental examination.
The District Court was in error in going counter to this
express exemption. The remedies available under the
rule in such a case are those enumerated in § (b) (2) (i)
(ii) and (iii). For this error we reverse the judgment
and remand the cause to the District Court for further
proceedings in conformity to this opinion.
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

dissenting:

Union Pacific Ry. Co. v. Botsford, 141 U. S. 250,
denied the power of the federal courts in a civil action
to compel a plaintiff suing for injury to the person to
submit to a physical examination. Nine years later, in
Camden & Suburban Ry. Coi v. Stetson, 177 U. S. 172,
Preliminary Draft (May, 1936) of Rules of Civil Procedure for
the District Courts of the United States and the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia, Advisory Committee on Rules for Civil
Procedure, p. 71; Notes to the Rules of Civil Procedure for the District Courts of the United States (March, 1938), p. 32.
" Supreme Court Rule 27, par. 6; Mahler v. Eby, 264 U. S. 32, 45;
Kessler v. Strecker, 307 U. S. 22, 34.

SIBBACH v. WILSON & CO.
I

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

the Botsford decision was treated as settled doctrine.
The present issue is whether the authority which Congress gave to this Court to formulate rules of civil procedure for the district courts allows displacement of the
law of the Botsford case. Stated more particularly, is
Rule 35, authorizing such physical examination, valid
under the Rules Enabling Act of June 19, 1934; 48 Stat.
1064; 28 U. S. C. S 723b-c. It is urged that since this
Rule pertains to procedure, it is valid because outside the
limitations of that Act, whereby "said rules shall neither
abridge, enlarge, nor modify the substantive rights of
any litigant."
Speaking with diffidence in support of a view which
has not commended itself to the Court, it does not seem
to me that the answer to our question is to be found
by an analytic determination whether the power of examination here claimed is a matter of procedure or a
matter of substance, even assuming that the two are
mutually exclusive categories with easily ascertainable
contents. The problem seems to me to be controlled by
the policy underlying the Botsford decision. Its doctrine was not a survival of an outworn technicality. It
rested on considerations akin to what is familiarly known
in the English law as the liberties of the subject. To be
sure, the immunity that was recognized in the Botsford
case has no -constitutional sanction. It is amenable to
statutory change. But the "inviolability of a person"
was deemed to have such historic roots in Anglo-American law that it was not to be curtailed "unless by clear
and unquestionable authority of law." In this connection it is significant that a judge as responsive to piocedural needs as was Mr. Justice Hohnes, should, on behalf of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts,
have supported the Botsford doctrine on the ground that
"the common law was very slow to sanction any viola301335--41-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
'FRANKFURTER, J.,

dissenting.

312 U. S.

tion of or interference with the person of a free citizen."
Stack v. New York, N. H. & H. R. Co., 177 Mass. 155,
157; 58 N. E. 686.
So far as national law is concerned, a drastic change in
public policy in a matter deeply touching the sensibilities
of people or even their prejudices as to privacy, ought
not to be inferred from a general authorization to formulate rules for the more uniform and effective dispatch of
business on the civil side of the federal courts. I deem
a requirement as to the invasion of the person to stand
on a very different footing from questions pertaining to
the discovery of documents, pre-trial procedure and other
devices for the expeditious, economic and fair conduct
of litigation. That disobedience of an order under Rule
35 cannot be visited with puiiishment as for contempt
does not mitigate its intrusion into an historic immunity
of the privacy of the person. Of course the Rule is comPulsive in that the doors of the federal courts otherwise
open may be shut to litigants who do not submit to such
a physical examination.
In this view little significance attaches to the fact that
the Rules, in accordance with the statute,. remained on
the table of two Houses of Congress without evoking any
objection to Rule 35 and thereby automatically came
into force. Plainly the Rules are not acts of Congress
and can not be treated as such. Having due regard to
the mechanics of legislation and the practical conditions
surrounding the business of Congress when the Rules
were submitted, to draw any inference of tacit approval
from non-action by Congress is to appeal to unreality.
And so I conclude that to make the drastic change that
Rule 35 sought to introduce would require explicit
legislation.
Ordinarily, disagreement with the majority on so-called
procedural matters is best held in silence. Even in the
present situation I should be loath to register dissent did

GORIN v. UNITED STATES.
1

Syllabus.

the issue pertain merely to diversity litigation. But
Rule 35 applies to all civil litigation in the federal courts,
and thus concerns the enforcement of federal rights and
not merely of state law in the federal courts.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE -DOUGLAS and MR.
JUSTICE MURPHY agree with these views.

GORIN v. UNITED STATES.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 87. Argued December 19, 1940.-Decided January 13, 1941.
1. In order to constitute the crimes denounced by §§ 1 (b) and 2 of
the Espionage Act-the obtaining of documents connected with or
relating to the national defense and their delivery to an agent of
a foreign country with an intent, or reason to believe, in each
case, that they are to be used to-the injury of the United States
or to the advantage of a foreign nation-it is not necessary that
the documents contain information concerning the places or things
(such as vessels, aircraft, forts, signal stations, codes or signal
books) which are specifically mentioned in §' 1 (a) of the Act.
P. 25.
2. "National defense" as used in §§ 1 (b) and 2 of the Espionage
Act refers to the military or naval establishments and to related
activities of national preparedness for war. P. 28.
3. With this meaning of "national defense" and with the elements
of scienter and bad faith which must be present, the sections are
sufficiently definite to apprise the public of the activities they prohibit; and they accord with due process. P. 27.
4. Information taken from reports in the files of the Naval Intelligence, giving a detailed picture of counter-espionage work, held
capable of use to the injury of the United States or to the advantage of a foreign nation, within the meaning of §§ 1 and 2 of
the Espionage Act. P. 29.
*Together with No. 88, Salich v. United States, also on certiorari,
310 -U. S. 622, to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit.

