636

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Statement of the Case.

312 U.S.

Congress to establish and maintain a system for peaceful
adjustment and mediation voluntary in its nature.' The
District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals properly
decided that petitioner was not required by the Railway
Labor Act to seek adjustment of his controversy with
the railroad as a prerequisite to suit for wrongful discharge. But, for failure to follow state law on the state
statute of limitations, the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals is reversed; the judgment of the District
Court is affirmed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER concurs

in the result.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. ESTATE OF ENRIGHT LT AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
THIRD CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

No. 436. Argued March 4, 1941.-Decided March 31, 1941.
Section 42 of the Revenue Act of 1934 permits the inclusion, as accruable items, in a decedent's gross income for the period ending with
his death, of his share of the profits earned, but not yet received,
by a partnership, although both the decedent and his firm kept their
accounts and made their income tax reports on a calendar year cash
receipts and disbursements basis. P. 640.
So held of a deceased member of a law firm in respect of his share
of the earned portion of the estimated receipts from the unfinished
business of the firm, valued as of the date of his death.
112 F. 2d 919, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 311 U. S. 638, to review the reversal of a
decision of the Board of Tax Appeals sustaining a
deficiency assessment.

See, e. g., H. Rep. No. 328, 69th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 4.

HELVERING v. ENRIGHT.
Opinion of the Court.

636

Mr. Gorgon Tweedy, with whom Solicitor GeneralBiddle, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs. Sewall
Key and Morton K. Rothschild were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. James D. Carpenter,Jr., for respondents.
Mr. Harold S. Deming filed a brief on behalf of the
Estate of Charles S. Haight, as amicus curiae, urging
affirmance.
MR. JUSTICE, REED

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Certiorari was granted to review the judgment below'
because of a conflict between it and Pfaff v. Commissioner' in the Second Circuit. The issue is whether
§ 42 of the Revenue Act of 1934 ' permits the inclusion,
as accruable items, in a decedent's gross income for the
period ending with his death, of his share of the profits
earned, but not yet received, of a partnership, when both
the decedent and the partnership reported income on a
cash receipts and disbursements basis.
Respondents are the executors of John M. Enright, an
attorney and member of a law partnership in New Jersey.
Both Mr. Enright and his firm kept their accounts and
made their income tax report on a calendar year cash
receipts and disbursements basis. He died, testate, No1112 F. 2d 919.
2113

F. 2d 114. SeePfaffv. Commissioner, post, p. 646.

'48 Stat. 680, c. 277: "SEc. 42. Period in which Items of Gross
Income Included. The amount of all items of gross income shall
be included in the gross income for the taxable year in which received
by the taxpayer, unless, under methods of accounting permitted
under section 41, any such amounts are to be properly accounted
for as of a different period. )In the case of the death of a taxpayer
there shall be included in computing net income for the taxable
period in which falls the date of his death, amounts accrued up
to the date of his death if not otherwise properly includible in
respect of such period or a prior period."

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

vember 19, 1934. The partnership agreement provided
for the termination of the partnership on the death of
any partner and that his estate should have his partnership percentage in the "net monies then in the treasury
of the firm, plus his like percentage in the outstanding
accounts and the earned proportion of the estimated
receipts from unfinished business." The will directed
that the valuation for the purpose of closing out the
partnership should be made by his senior surviving partner, Mr. James D. Carpenter, and by agreement between
Mr. Carpenter and the executors a valuation was made
of these items as of the date of death for use in the
federal estate tax and New Jersey inheritance tax returns, with the further understanding that the surviving
partners would pay over to the executors whatever was
ultimately realized out of the valued assets.
Pursuant to this arrangement the interest of Mr. Enright in the uncollected accounts was valued at $2,055.55
and in the unfinished work at $40,855.77. These sums
were reported as assets in the estate and inheritance tax
returns but were not included in the income tax return
made for the decedent for 1934, nor were the sums derived from these assets reported in the estate's income
tax for 1934 or later years.
The Commissioner assessed a deficiency because he
included in the decedent's return for 1934, under the
claimed authority of § 42, supra note 3, the items of accounts and unfinished work. Respondents appealed to
the Board of Tax Appeals. The Board decided 4 that
the evidence did not show the situation of the unfinished
work in sufficient detail to enable the Board to determine
independently that it was not accruable. The accounts
'August 28, 1939, by memorandum opinion.

man, Executrix, 38 B. T. A. 37.

Cf. Lillian 0. Fehr-

HELVERING v. ENRIGHT.
636

Opinion of the Court.

receivable were held accruable. This left the Commissioner's assessment intact.
On appeal the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the
Board. It was of the opinion that the partnership was a
tax computing unit separate from its members and that
§ 42 had the effect of placing the decedent "upon an
'accrual basis at the date of his death." Consequently
his return should be made as it would have been made
if the deceased used the accrual method. The Court
then reasoned that the requirement of § 182 of the Revenue Act of 1934, including a partner's distributive share
of the partnership earnings, whether distributed or not,
in the partner's computation of his own net income, put
a partner on an accrual basis in accounting for partnership earnings, irrespective of § 42. Consequently § 42
was held not to affect the partnership accounting practices. It was further determined that it was the right
to receive payment which made an earning accrue and
that, as Mr. Enright under the partnership agreement had
no right to receive anything -from the firm except his
proportionate share of the cash receipts, these cash receipts were all that "accrued" to him before his death.
The last sentence of § 42 which requires the inclusion
of "amounts accrued up to the date of his death" in computing net income for the period in which his death falls
was added by the 1934 Revenue Act.' The reports
recommended its addition because the "courts have held
that income accrued by a decedent on the cash basis
prior to his death is not income to the estate, and under
the present law, unless such income is taxable to the
decedent, it escapes income tax altogether." '6 So § 42
'Cf. Revenue Act of 1932, 47 Stat. 169, c.209, § 42.
H. Rep. No. 704, 73rd Cong., 2nd Sess., p. 24; S. Rep. No. 558,
73rd Cong., 2nd Sess., p. 28.
This situation followed the decision of the Court of. Claims in

640

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

was drawn to require the inclusion of all amounts accrued to the date of death "regardless of the fact that he
With the
may have kept his books on a cash basis. ' '
to
in
mind,
we
proceed
declared purpose of Congress
examine the meaning of the section.
As the questioned items of unfinished work appear in
the partnership accounts, we must determine whether
such earnings, even if accruable, are includible in the
partner's return for 1934. Respondent argues, as the
Circuit Court of Appeals held, that § 1828 accrues, without any effect from the language of § 42, all the earnings
that are includible in a partner's return, and that since
the partnership method of keeping its books did not treat
unfinished business as receipts, only the earnings actually
collected are a part of the partner's distributive share
under § 182.
We think such a conclusion is erroneous. The partnership agreement and the subsequent arrangement between
the executors and the surviving partners called for d valuNichols v. United States, 64 Ct. Cls. 241. A decedent on the cash
basis was a member of a partnership dissolved by his death. Commissions earned before death but unpaid to the partnership were
valued in the estate tax and collected by the partnership after death
for payment to the executors. The Court of Claims held sums paid
the executors were part of the corpus and not income.
The Board of Tax Appeals followed the reasoning of the Court
of Claims. William G. Frank, Adm., 6 B. T. A. 1071; E. S. Heller,
Exec., 10 B. T. A. 53; George Nichols, Exec., 10 B. T. A. 919;
Estate of A. Plumer Austin, 10 B. T. A. 1055; William K. Vanderbilt, Exec., 11 B. T. A. 291; J. Howland Auchincloss, Exec., 11
B. T. A. 947; William P. Blodget, Exec., 13 B. T. A. 1243; Jackson
B. Kemper, Adm., 14 B. T. A. 931; Maurice L. Goldman, 15
B. T. A. 1341.
"H. Rep. supra.
8
"SEc. 182. Tax of Partners. There shall be included in computing the net income of each partner his distributive share, whether
distributed or not, of the net income of the partnership for the
taxable year."

HELVERING v. ENRIGHT.
636

641

Opinion of the Court.

ation on Mr. Enright's death and a dissolution as of that

day. This necessitated an accounting of partnership
earnings for this period. By the terms of the agreement,
as would have been necessary anyway, the earned proportion of the unfinished business was to be valued to
determine the decedent's interest in the partnership assets.' Assuming at this point that the unfinished business is accruable, this accounting as of the time of death
would show the partnership income for the taxable year
of the partnership. ° As the net income of the partnership is to be accounted for in the deceased partner's
return, without consideration of the period over which
the income is earned, the fact that the payment for the
unfinished business will not be collected until another
taxable year is immaterial. "Circumstances wholly fortuitous may determine the year in which income, whenever earned, is taxable." "1 The "distributive share" re'We do not consider or decide whether this accounting for a
fractional year may affect the individual returns of surviving partners. Neither do we appraise the effect of argeements for continuation of an interest in the partnership after death. See Bull v. United
States, 295 U. S. 247.
If the partnership had been upon an accrual basis which treated
accounts as accrued upon a determination of the amount of fees,
it may be that a decedent's interest would not be distributable until
a later year. It might then be income to the estate, even though
the value of the right to receive it was included in the estate return.
A conclusion as to this is unnecessary and is pretermitted. Cf. note
23, the cases cited in note 6 and Bull v. United States, 295 U. S. 247,
255, 256-57.
" "Sac. 48. Definitions. When used in this title"(a) Taxable Year.-'Taxable year' means the calendar year, or
the fiscal year ending during such calendar year, upon the basis of
which the net income is computed under this Part. 'Taxable year'
includes, in the case of a return made for a fractional part of a year
under the provisions of this title or under regulations prescribed by
the Commissioner with the approval of the Secretary, the period for
which such return is made."
"Guaranty Trust Co. v. Commissioner, 303 U. S. 493, 498.
301335°-41-41

642

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

ferred to in § 182 does not mean available in cash for
payment to- the partner. It means only that gains attributable to the partner's interest in the firm were
earned. Partnership returns may be made on a different
basis of computation than those of the members.12 Thus
because of the partnership arrangement and agreement,
the value of the unfinished business must be determined
as of the date of death. Further, the result, under the
assumption here that it is an accrual, is a distributive
share and is to be carried into the partner's return. Respondent's argument that the requirement of § 182, including all distributable, shares in the partner's return,
puts all partnership returns on the accrual basis fails
to give weight to the fact that a partnership on the
cash method shows only cash receipts as a partner's distributiye
share. The requirement to account for a distributive share,
although the share is actually not distributed, is not a requirement to account for partnership
income on an accrual basis. Since a partner's return of
his partnership earnings would vary, dependent upon
whether the partnership used the 'cash or accrual method
of accounting, we do not agree with respondent's
suggestion.
We turn now to whether this valuation of the decedent's interest in the partnership is an accrual of income
which must be reflected in the income tax or a valuation
of assets only reflected. in estate or inheritance reports.
This partnership uses the cash receipts method. There
was no customary accounting system to determine
whether the value of services rendered should be accrued
before payment. Under such circumstances, we are of the
view that items of partnership income properly accrued
should be included in the income tax return of the deceased partner. This will cause the accrued items of
Truman v. United States, 4 F. Supp. 447; §§ 183 and 187.

HELVERING v. ENRIGHT.
636

Opinion of the Court.

partnership returns to be included in the income tax
*return of a deceased partner, whether the partnership
method is accrual or cash." Furthermore, an accrual
of cofnpensation for the unfinished business seems sound
in view of the purpose of the enactment of § 42.
The meaning of "amounts accrued up to the date of
.-his death" is clear as to fixed rent, interest, salary or
wages for personal services and other similar income
which may readily be attributed to a particular period.
14
There are like deductions such as interest and taxes.
The uncertainty as to the meaning arises in the field of
personal service from items which cannot be accounted
for on a basis of successive equal units of time. Examples of the difficulty are the value, prior to a successful
result, of services rendered on a contingent basis, done
on a quantum meruit whether that would or would not
vary with the outcome, or exploratory or preliminary
steps looking towards final accomplishment.
While "accrue" and its various derivatives are not
new to the nomenclature of accounting or taxation, its
use has not sufficed to build it into a word of art with a
definite connotation when employed in describing items
of gross income. The 1913 Act 1 put the taxpayer on an
actual cash receipt and disburserpent basis. The 1916
Act 1 gave the taxpayer the option of reporting on either
the cash or accrual basis and the 1918 Act limited the
return to the method of accounting regularly employed
unless otherwise directed by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue." A similar provision covers the year
"-The inevitable variations of "accrued" which depend upon established accounting practice do not destroy the principle.
" Cf. United States v. Anderson, 269 U. S. 422.
1538 Stat. 114 at 166.
16 39 Stat. 756, §§ 8 (g) and 13 (d).
1'40 Stat. 1057, § 212 (b).

644

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

here in question. 8 That the meaning to be attributed
to "accrued" as used in § 42 is to be gathered from its
surroundings is emphasized by § 48, Definitions, which
says:
"(c) Paid, Incurred, Accrued.-The terms 'paid or incurred' and 'paid or accrued' shall be construed according
to the method of accounting upon the basis of which the
net income is computed under this part." 19
It is to be noted that no change was made by the 1934
Act in the § 48 definition of "accrued." 20 Yet, it is obvious that the definition is inapplicable since a taxpayer
on a cash basis cannot have a "method of accounting"
by which the meaning of accrual is fixed. Consequently
it is beside the point to give weight to provisions of the
regulations or accounting practices which do not recognize accruals until a determination of compensation.2'
Such provisions when applied bring the income into succeeding years. It has been frequently said, and correctly, that § 42 was aimed at putting the cash receipt
taxpayer on the accrual basis. 2'

But that statement

does not answer the meaning of accrual in this section.
Accounts kept consistently on a basis other than cash
receipts might treat accruals quite differently from a
method designed to reflect the earned income of a cash
receipt taxpayer. Accruals here are to be construed in
furtherance of the intent of Congress to cover into income the assets of decedents, earned during their life
" 48 Stat. 680, § 42.
" Cf. Ernest M. Bull, Exec., 7 B. T. A. 993, 995.
"Cf. § 48 (c) of the Revenue Act of 1932, 47 Stat. 188.
" Regulation 86, Art. 42-1.
Lillian 0. Fehrman, Exec., 38 B. T. A. 37; Estate of Wilton J.
Lambert, 40 B. T. A. 802, 806; Estate of G. Percy McGlue, 41
B. T. A. 1186, 1193; Enright v. Commissioner, 112 F. 2d 919, this
case below.

HELVERING v. ENRIGHT.
636

Opinion of the Court.

and unreported as income, which on a cash return, would
returns. Congress sought a fair
appear in the estate
2
reflection of income.

Accrued income obviously connotes more than interest.
In United States v. American Can Co.,2" this Court approved an accrual basis where "pecuniary obligations to
or by the Company were treated as if discharged when
incurred." In United States v. Anderson 2 accruals of
fixed annual charges, e. g., taxes payable in another year,
were permitted against determinable gross income.
"Keeping accounts and making returns on the accrual
basis, as distinguished from the cash basis, import that
it is the right to receive and not the actual receipt that
determines the inclusion of the amount in gross income." 26 The completion of the work in progress was
necessary to fix the amount due but the right to payment for work ordinarily arises on partial performance.
Accrued income under § 42 for -uncompleted operations
includes the value of the services rendered by the decedent, capable of approximate valuation, whether based
.on the agreed compensation or on quantum meruit.
The requirement of valuation comprehends the elements
of collectibility.2 The items here meet these tests and
are subject to accrual.
It is immaterial that all possibility of escaping an income tax
is not barred, as for instance the increased value of asset items in an
estate return.

Act, 113 (a) (5) ".

.

. the entire field of proper legis-

lation [need not] be covered by a single enactment." Rosenthal v.
New York, 226 U. S. 260, 271; cf. Keokee Coke Co. v. Taylor, 234
U. S. 224, 227.
2 280 U. S. 412, 417.
-269 U. S. 422, 437.
Spring City Co. v. Commissioner, 292 U. S. 182, 184; Guaranty
Trust Co. v. Commissioner, 303 U. S. 493, 498.
' Cf. Parlin, Accruals to Date of Death, 87 U. of Pa. L. Rev. 294,
301; Farrand & Farrand, Treatment of Accrued Items on Death, 13
So. Cal. L. Rev. 43J.

646

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and the decision of the Board of Tax Appeals
affirmed.
Reversed.
PFAFF ET A., EXECUTORS, v. COMMISSIONER
OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 479. Argued March 4, 5, 1941.-Decided March 31, 1941.
Decided upon the authority of Helvering v. Estate of Enright, ante,
p. 63 6 . P. 647.
113 F. 2d 114, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 311 U. S. 639, to review a judgment which
affirmed a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals sustaining a deficiency assessment.
Mr. Laurence Sovik for petitioners.
Mr. Gordon Tweedy, with whom Solicitor General
Biddle, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs.
Sewall Key and Morton K. Rothschild were on the brief,
for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE REED

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case presents the same question as Helvering v.
Estate of Enright, ante, p. 636. Petitioners are the executors of a deceased physician who during 1935 was a
member of a medical partnership and entitled to forty
per cent of its profits. He died December 25, 1935, on
which date there were outstanding about $69,000 of partnership accounts receivable for services rendered to patients during his lifetime. His death worked a dissolution of the partnership under § 62(4) of the New York
Partnership Law. The decedent's interest in these ac-

