176

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U.S.

is that of creditor and debtor and no principle of equity
justifies ignoring that relation when, so to do, might adversely affect the claims of other creditors.
For these reasons we hold the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals was right and should be affirmed.
Affirmed.

SUPERIOR BATH HOUSE CO. v. McCARROLL,
COMMISSIONER OF REVENUES OF ARKANSAS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 180. Submitted December 18, 1940.-Decided February 3, 1941.
1. An Arkansas corporation which leases from the United States and
operates for profit a bath house on the federal reservation at Hot
* Springs is taxable by Arkansas on its net income; under authority
of the Act of Congress of 1891, which gives the consent of the
United States to "the taxation, under the authority of the laws
of the State of Arkansas applicable to the equal taxation of personal
property in that State, as personal property of all structures and
other property in private ownership on the Hot Springs Reservation." P. 178.
2. The Act of 1891 may not be construed as consenting only to
ad valorem taxes imposed directly on tangible property. P. 179.
200 Ark. 233; 139 S. W. 2d 378, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a decree sustaining the validity of a state

tax.
Mr. Terrell Marshall submitted for appellant.
Messrs. Frank Pace, Jr. and Lester M. Ponder submitted for appellee.
MR. JUSTIcE BLACK delivered the opinion of the
Court.
By a 1929 Act, Arkansas imposed a tax of 2% on the
net income of domestic corporations "with respect to

SUPERIOR BATH CO. v. McCARROLL.

177

Opinion of the Court.

176

carrying on or doing business" in the state.' Appellant,
a corporation organized under Arkansas law, leases from
the United States and operates for profit a bath house on
the federal reservation at Hot Springs. Whether appellant is subject to the state tax depends on the interpretation of the language of a provision of a Congressional
Act of 1891 and the corresponding provision of an Arkansas Act of 1903. The Congressional Act reads: "The
consent of the United States is hereby given for the taxation, under the authority of the laws of the State of
Arkansas applicable to the equal taxation of personal
property in that State, as personal property of all structures and other property in private ownership on the Hot
Springs Reservation." 2 The 1903 Arkansas act ceded
to the United States exclusive jurisdiction over the business area of the reservation, reserving only the right to
tax accorded by the 1891 Act and the right to serve criminal and civil process.! The Supreme Court of Arkansas
held appellant liable for the tax,4 and the case is here on
appeal as authorized by 28 U. S. C., § 344.
'Ark. Acts (1929) No. 118.
226 Stat. 844. The quoted language was § 5 of a general Act
dealing with the reservation. The section was added as a Senate
amendment to a House bill, and the only relevant legislative reference to it is a statement by the House conferees that "Section 5
provides for local taxation of the bath houses, so far as the consent
of the United States is concerned.' 22 Cong. Rec. 3513. Arkansas,
in ceding exclusive jurisdiction over part of the reservation, expressly
referred.to the taxing powers conferred by the 1891 Act (Ark. Acts
(1903) No. 30), and later federal Acts extending exclusive federal
jurisdiction over larger -portions of' the reservation have provided
that such extension of jurisdiction shall "not be so construed as to
interfere with the right to tax all structures and other property ...

"

(E. g., 33 Stat. 187.)

"Ark. Acts (1903) No. 30.
'200 Ark. 233; 139 S.W. 2d 378. In addition to urging that
Arkansas had no power to levy this tax, appellant had urged that it
was denied equal protection by virtue of a 1931 statute exempting
301335°--41-12

OCTOBER TERM, 140.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

Arkansas does not contend, nor did the Supreme Court
of that state hold, that appellant was liable for the state
income tax under the general power of the state to tax
corporations created pursuant to Arkansas law.- On the
contrary Arkansas admits that under the reciprocal state
and federal acts the United States possesses complete
sovereign power over the Hot Springs Reservation, subject to the right of the State of Arkansas to tax in accordance with the 1891 Act and subject to its right to
execute within the reservation its civil and criminal
process. The state does not claim a right of any kind to
tax any corporation or individual doing business on the
reservation unless the tax comes within the scope of its
agreement with the government, effectuated by the 1891
and 1903 federal and state legislation. Since the state
has taken this view, and since it is our opinion that the
tax can be sustained on this basis, it is unnecessary for
us to determine whether any other basis might conceivably exist.
While not controlling here, it has been the consistent
conviction of the Arkansas court that the federal legislation conferred broad powers of taxation upon the state.
In Ex parte Gaines, 56 Ark. 227; 19 S. W. 602, decided
one year after the original .i891 Act, the court held that
a leasehold interest on the reservation was subject to
state taxation. In Buckstaff Bath House Co. v. McKinley, 198 Ark. 91; 127 S. W. 2d 802,' the court upheld the
state unemployment compensation tax, saying of the 1891
Act: "The Congress seemingly intended (and this construction is strengthened by the Gaines case) to permit
from the tax those domestic corporations organized for the purpose
of doing business outside the state. (Ark. Acts (1931) No. 220.)
This latter contention is wholly without merit, and will not be
discussed.
'Affirmed on other grounds, 308 U. S. 358.

SUPERIOR BATH CO. v. MaCARROLL.
176

179

Opinion of the Court.

the State to exercise its sovereignty within the Reservation with respect to the conduct of business, commerce,
and the professions, subject only to the interest retained
by the Government and the right to enforce restrictions
under the federal laws ..."
Appellant, however, reads the Act more narrowly than
does the Arkansas court, and contends that the only
taxes Arkansas can levy are ad valorem taxes imposed
directly on tangible property. But the words tangible
and ad valorem appear nowhere in the Act, nor do any
synonymous words there appear. And in our opinion to
,.construe the Act as though such words had been used
would do violence to the intent of Congress. The language of Congress was pecularly adapted to the broadening of the state's taxing power-not to its restriction.
Thus, though under Arkansas law structures attached to
land were considered a part of the realty, taxable or
non-taxable with the land,' Congress provided that privately owned structures on the tax exempt land of the
reservation should be taxed "as personal property." Not
only was this done, but also all "other property in private
ownership" was expressly made subject to state taxation.
By these provisions Congress manifested its purpose that
no type of privately owned property should escape the
state's taxing power merely because it was owned or used
on the reservation.
And appellant's insistence that these provisions permit
only ad valorem taxation loses sight of the fact that the
word property is by no means limited, in all its variations,
'At the time of the 1891 Act, the Arkansas law provided
that "The term 'real property and lands' . . . shall be held to
mean . .. all buildings, structures and improvements, and other
fixtures of whatever kind. . . ." Ark. Stats. (Mansfield, 1884)

§ 5585. See Union Compress Co. v. State, 64 Ark. 136. Such is still
the Arkansas law. Ark. Dig. Stats. (Pope, 1937) § 13358.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court

312 U. S.

to actual tangible physical things.1 Its meaning must be
determined from its context as illumined by the subject
treated and the objectives sought. It is true that Arkansas had no corporate income tax in 1891, when the
original permission to tax was granted. But taxation
policies and systems change with necessities and experience, and no support can be found in the Act for a belief
that Congress consented to state taxation only if Arkansas
would make its 1891 tax system static. If we accept
appellant's premise that what Congress consented to
was ad valorem taxation only, we must conclude that
Congress consented to a tax under which Arkansas was
collecting virtually all of its revenues in 1891. Since
1900, state governments-Arkansas included-have
tended to secure less and less of their revenue from ad
valorem taxation, and more and more from taxes of
other types.' The Arkansas legislature, in fact, in the
preamble to the 1929 income tax act, gave as a reason for
its adoption that "Agricultural and Industrial development is now being retarded because of a policy to secure
practically all of the Revenue from an Advalorem Tax,
thus penalizing and discouraging ownership of property, . . ." The narrow construction of the Act urged
by appellant-a corporation created under the laws of
Arkansas-would thus relieve it from an Arkansas tax
on corporate income enacted, at least in part, as a substitute for those state ad valorem taxes to which appellant admits it is subject. And "The privilege of use is
only one attribute, among many, of the bundle of privi' Cf. Fidelity & Deposit Co. v. Arenz, 290 U. S.66, 68.
'Arkansas, for example, received approximately 77% of its total
revenue from general property taxes in 1915, while in 1937 this
source accounted for only 13%. Financial Statistics of States, 1915,
Table 3, pp. 66-67; id., 1937, Table 5, pp. 36-41.
'Ark. Acts (1929) No. 118. Compare the preceding footnote.

SUPERIOR BATH CO. v. McCARROLL.
176

STONE,

181

J., concurring.

leges that makes up property or ownership." 'o It is our
opinion that the decision below must be affirmed."
Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE STONE, concurring:
MR.JUSTICE

ROBERTS

and I concur in the judgment of

the Court but upon different grounds from those stated
in its opinion.
The state court has held that so far as the state constitution and laws are involved it has power to lay
the present tax. It is no concern of ours what reasons
are assigned for that conclusion. The only question for
decision here is whether there is anything in the acts of
Congress establishing the reservation or in the relation.ship of the two sovereignties, state and national, to prevent the state from laying a tax on the net income of
its own corporation.
If the consent of the national. government were needful in. order to sustain the present tax we should have
difficulty in finding that consent in the words of the Act
of Congress authorizing the state to tax "all structures
and other property in private ownership on the...
reservation." But we think that such consent is unnecessary to enable a state to tax the income of its own
corporations, derived from property located on the reservation. It is enough that no Act of Congress and no
agreement by the state with the Federal Government
prohibits the tax.
The fact that income-producing property is physically
located on the territory of another sovereignty does not
foreclose the state from taxing its own residents and corporations on the income derived from the property.
" Henneford v. Silas Mason Co., 300 U. S. 577, 582.
"Cf. Buckstafl Bath House Co. v. McKinley, 308 U. S. 358;
Collins v. Yosemite Park & Curry Co., 304 U. S. 518.

182

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
STONE, J., concurring.

312 U. S.

Cohn v. Graves, 300 U. S. 308; Lawrence v. State Tax
Comm'n, 286 U. S. 276; see Newark Fire Insurance Co.
v. State Board, 307 U. S. 313. We have recently held
that such a tax is not a tax on the income-producing
property in any such sense as to preclude the tax for
want of "jurisdiction" of the state to' lay it. Cohn v.
Graves, supra, 313, 314; Graves v. O'Keefe, ,306 U. S.
466, 480. There is no occasion now to give renewed
currency to the notion erroneously attributed to Pollock
v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429; cf. Cohn v.
Graves, supra, 314, 315, that a tax on income is subject
to the limitations of a tax on the property which
produces it.
For that reason if Arkansas had made an unrestricted
grant of the reservation it could not be said to have renounced its authority to tax income of its corporations or
citizens derived from property on the reservation, more
than if it were located in the District of Columbia or in
another state. It clearly has not done so by reserving
the right to lay a property tax within the reservation or
by agreeing that the United States shall have exclusive
jurisdiction over it for any or for every purpose. The
state's power to lay the tax, being independent of its
jurisdiction over the ceded territory, subsists unless
waived or prohibited by competent authority.
Whatever constitutional power the Federal Government may have to prohibit the state taxation of income
derived from property located on the reservation, regarded as a federal instrumentality, it is plain that it
has not assumed to exercise the power. Graves v.
O'Keefe, supra, 480. Since the state has not surrendered
its constitutional power to tax the income and since
Congress has not assumed in the act establishing the
reservation, or otherwise, to prohibit the tax, the power
of the state is unimpaired, unless restricted by its own
constitution and laws,

HURON CORP. v. LINCOLN CO.
176

183

Argument for Petitioners.

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER while agreeing with the
Court's opinion also agrees with the view expressed in
this opinion.

HURON HOLDING CORPORATION ET AL. V.
LINCOLN MINE OPERATING CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 212.

Argued January 13, 1941.-Decided February 3, 1941.

Pending appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals from a judgment of
the federal District Court for Idaho, a third party sued the judgment creditor in a state court in New York and a warrant of
attachment was issued attaching the judgment debt in the hands
of the judgment debtor in New York. After the Circuit Court of
Appeals had affirmed the judgment of the District Court, but
before the mandate issued, the New York court rendered judgment
against the judgment creditor and execution was had against the
attached debt. Held:
1. The validity of the attachment was governed by the law of
New York, and by that law the attachment was valid. P. 188.
2. Having paid the judgment debt under 'compulsion of the
execution, the judgment debtor was entitled to have the judgment of the federal. court for Idaho marked satisfied; and the
surety was not chargeable on its supersedeas bond. Pp. 189, 194.
111 F. 2d 438, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 311 U. S. 625, to review the reversal of judgments of the District Court, 27 F. Supp. 720, holding that

an earlier judgment of that court had been satisfied, and

declining to enter judgment against the surety on a

supersedeas bond.
Mr. Leonard G. Bisco, with whom Mr. Daniel Gordon
Judge was on the brief, for petitioners.

The New York court had power to enforce its attachment proceedings against Huron, a New York corporation, and on that power was based its jurisdiction to bind

