TRADE COMM'N v. BUNTE BROS.
Opinion of the Court.

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. BUNTE
BROTHERS, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 85. Argued January 6, 1941.-Decided February 17, 1941.
1. The'Federal Trade Commission is without authority under § 5
of the Federal Trade Commission Act to prevent a candy manufacturer within a State from selling, wholly within that State,
candy in so-called "break and take" assortments. P. 350.
2. Such selling is not a method of competition "in [interstate] commerce" within the meaning of the Act, and therefore not within
the jurisdiction of the Commission, even though it be in competition with and affect the sales of out-of-state manufacturers
who. are barred from selling "break and take" assortments in interstate commerce as an unfair method of competition. P. 351.
3. The phrase "unfair methods of competition in [interstate] commerce," as used in the Federal Trade Commission Act, is not to
be construed as though it meant "unfair methods of competition
in any way affecting interstate commerce." P. 355.
110 F. 2d 412, affirmed.

311 U. S. 624, to review a judgment setting
aside an order of the Federal Trade Commission.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Hugh B. Cox, with whom Solicitor General Biddie, Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and Messrs.
Charles H. Weston and W. T. Kelley were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Mr. Theodore E. Rein, with whom Mr. Samuel G.
Clawson was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Federal Trade Commission found that ;Bunte
Brothers, candy manufacturers in Illinois, sold products
there in what the trade calls "break and take" packages,

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

which makes the amount the purchaser receives dependent upon chance; and that thereby it was enabled in the
Illinois market to compete unfairly with manufacturers
outside of Illinois who could not indulge in this device
because the Trade Commission has barred "break and
take" packages as an "unfair method of competition."
Federal Trade Commission Act, § 5 (a), 38 Stat. 719,
as amended, 15 U. S. C. § 45, Federal Trade Comm'n v.
Keppel & Bro., 291 U. S. 304. Deeming the "break and
take" sales unfair methods of competition under § 5,
even though the sales took place wholly within Illinois,
the Commission forbade Bunte Brothers further use of
the device. The circuit court of appeals set aside the
order, 110 F. 2d 412, and we brought the case here because the issue at stake presents an important aspect
of the interplay of state and federal authority. 311
U. S. 624.
The scope of § 5 is-in controversy.'

That section, the

court below held, authorizes the Commission to proceed
only against business practices employed in interstate

commerce. The Commission urges that its powers are not
so restricted, that it may also proscribe unfair methods

used in intrastate sales when these result in a handicap to
interstate competitors.
While one may not end with the words of a disputed
statute, one certainly begins there. "Unfair methods of
competition in commerce" are Lhe concern of § 5, and

the Commission, is "directed to prevent persons...
from using unfair methods. of competition in com"See. 5. (a) Unfair methods of competition in commerce, and unfair or deceptive acts or practices in commerce, are hereby declared

unlawful.

"The Commission is hereby empowered and directed to prevent
persons, partnerships, or corporations . . . from using unfair methods
of competition in commerce and unfair or deceptive acts or practices
in commerce."

TRADE COMM'N v. BUNTE BROS.
Opinion of the Court.

349

merce . . ." The "commerce" in which these methods
are barred is interstate commerce.2 Neither ordinary
English speech nor the considered language of legislation would aptly describe the sales by Bunte Brothers of
its "break and take" assortments in Illinois as "using
unfair methods of competition in [interstate] commerce."
When in order to protect interstate commerce Congress has
regulated activities which in isolation are merely local,
it has normally conveyed its purpose explicitly. See
for example, National Labor Relations Act, §§ 2 (7),
9 (c), 10 (a), 49 Stat. 450, 453, 29 U. S. C. §§ 152 (7), 159
(c), 160 (a); Bituminous Coal Act, § 4-A, 50 Stat. 83.
15 U. S. C. § 834; Federal Employers' Liability Act, § 1,
35 Stat. 65, as amended, 53 Stat. 1404, 45 .U. S. C. § 51.
To be sure, the construction of every such statute presents a unique problem in which words derive vitality
from the aim and nature of the specific legislation. But
bearing in mind that in ascertaining the scope of congressional legislation a due regard for a proper adjustment of the local and national interests in our federal
scheme must always be in the background, we ought not
to find in § 5 radiations beyond the obvious meaning of
language unless otherwise the purpose of the Act would
be defeated. Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352,
398-412.
That for a quarter century the Commission has made
no such claim is a powerful indication that effective enforcement of the Trade Commission Act is not dependent
2

"Sec. 4. The words defined in this section shall have the following

meaning when found in this Act, to wit:
"'Commerce' means commerce among the several States or with
foreign nations, or in any Territory of the United States or in the
District of Columbia, or between any such Territory and another, or
between any such Territory and any state or foreign nation, or
between the District of Columbia and any State or Territory or
foreign nation."

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

on control over intrastate transactions., Authority actually granted by Congress of course cannot evaporate
through lack of administrative exercise. But just as established practice may shed light on the extent of power
conveyed by general statutory language, so the want of
assertion of power by those who presumably would be
alert to exercise it, is equally significant in determining
whether such power was actually conferred. See Norwegian Nitrogen Co. v. United States, 288 U. S. 294, 315,
This practical construction of the Act by those entrusted
with its administration is reinforced by the Commission's unsuccessful attempt in 1935 to secure from Congress an express grant of authority over transactions "affecting" commerce in addition to its control of practices
in commerce. S. Rep. No. 46, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.
These circumstances are all the more significant in that
during the whole of the Commission's life the so-called
Shreveport doctrine operated in the regulatory field committed to the Interstate" Commerce Commission. And
it is that doctrine which gives the contention of the Trade
Commission its strongest support.
'The Commission makes no claim of a contrary administrative
practice. The cases which it cites in no way mitigate what is stated
in the text of the opinion. (1) Counsel for the Commission apparently argued for recognition of the power claimed here in Canfield
Oil Co. v. Federal Trade Comm'n, 274 F. 571, but the Commission
had made no findings of discrimination against commerce and had
only found that the Oil Company was engaged in commerce. (2)
The jurisdiction sustained in Chamber of Commerce of Minneapolis
v. Federal Trade Comm'n, 13 F. 2d 673, was very different from that
claimed here. It rested on the fact that the Chamber conducted a
market for grain in the current of interstate commerce. See Chicago
Board of Trade v. Olsen, 262 U. S. 1, and cases cited. (3) The order
of the Commission reviewed in California Rice Industry v. Federal
Trade Comm'n, 102 F. 2d 716, resulted from proceedings instituted
more than a year after this proceeding against Bunte Brothers had

begun.

TRADE COMM'N v. BUNTE BROS.
349

Opinion of the Court.

Translation of an implication drawn from the special
aspects of one statute to a totally different statute is
treacherous business. The Interstate Commerce Act and
the Federal Trade Commission Act are widely disparate
in their historic settings, in the enterprises which they
affect, in the range of control they exercise, and in the
relation of these controls to the functioning of the federal
system. We need not at this late day rehearse the considerations that led to the Shreveport decision. Houston, E. & W. T. Ry. Co. v. United States, 234 U. S. 342.
The nub of it, in the language of Chief Justice Taft, lay
in the relation between intrastate and interstate railroad
traffic: "Effective control of the one must embrace some
control over the other in view of the blending of both in
actual operation. The same rails and the same cars
carry both. The same men conduct them." Wisconsin
Railroad Comm'n v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., 257 U. S.
563, 588. And so when the Interstate Commerce Commission found that the intrastate rates of a carrier subject
to the Act in effect operated as a discrimination against
its interstate traffic, this Court sustained the power of the
Commission to bring the two rates into harmonious relation and thereby to terminate the unlawful discrimination. Congress in 1920 revised the Interstate Commerce
Act and explicitly confirmed this power of the Commerce
Commission. 41 Stat. 484, 49 U. S. C. § 13 (4).
There is the widest difference in practical operation
between the control over local traffic intimately connected with interstate traffic and the regulatory authority here asserted. Unlike the relatively precise situation
presented by rate discrimination, "unfair competition"
was designed by Congress as a flexible concept with evolving content. Federal Trade Comm'n v. Keppel & Bro.,
supra,at 311-312. It touches the greatest variety of unrelated activities. The Trade Commission in its Report
3013:35°-41-23

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

for 1939 lists as "unfair competition" thirty-one diverse
types of business practices which run the gamut from
bribing employees of prospective customers to selling below cost for hindering competition.' The construction of
§ 5 urged by the Commission would thus give a federal
agency pervasive control over myriads of local businesses
in matters heretofore traditionally left to local custom or
local law. Such control bears no resemblance to the
'Report, pp. 83, 88. And see these additional examples (pp. 83,
85, 89):
"6. Making false and disparaging statements respecting competitors' products and business, in some cases under the guise of ostensibly .disinterested and specially informed sources or through purported
scientific, but in fact misleading, demonstrations or tests; and making
false and misleading representations with respect to competitors'
products, such as that seller's product is competitor's, and through
use of such practices as deceptive simulation of competitor's counterdisplay catalogs or trade names; and that competitor's business has
been discontinued, and that seller is successor thereto or purchaser
and owner thereof."
"10. Selling rebuilt, second-hand, renovated, or old products or articles made from used or. second-hand materials as and for new."
"19. Using containers ostensibly of the capacity customarily associated in the mind of the general purchasing public with standard
weights or quantities of the pioduct therein contained, or using such
standard containers only partially filled to capacity, so as to make it
appear to the purchaser that he is receiving the standard weight or
quantity."
"30. Failing and refusing to deal justly and fairly with customers
in consummating transactions undertaken, through such practices as
refusing to correct mistakes in filling orders, or to make promised
adjustments or refunds, and retaining, without refund, goods returned
for exchange or adjustment, and enforcing, notwithstanding agents'
alterations, printed terms of purchase contracts, and exacting payments in excess of customers' commitments."
"31. Shipping products at market prices to its customers or prospective customers or to the customers or prospective customers of
competitors without an order and then inducing or attempting by
various means to induce the consignees to accept and purchase such
consignments."

TRADE COMM'N v. BUNTE BROS.
349

DouGLis, J., dissenting.

strictly confined authority growing out of railroad rate
discrimination. An inroad upon local conditions and
local standards of such far-reaching import as is involved
here, ought to await a clearer mandate from Congress.
The problem now before us is very different from that
which was recently presented by United States v. Darby,
ante, p. 100. We had there to consider the full scope of
the constitutional power of Congress under the Commerce Clause in relation to the subject matter of the
Fair Labor Standards Act. This case presents the narrow
question of what Congress did, not what it could do. And
we merely hold that to read "unfair methods of competition in [interstate] commerce" as though it meant "unfair methods of competition in any way affecting interstate commerce," requires, in view of all the relevant
considerations, much clearer manifestation of intention
than Congress has furnished.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGI s, dissenting.

In my opinion the judgment should be reversed.
The Commission found that respondent's "use of
chance assortments in the sale and distribution of its
candies in Illinois has a direct and powerful burdensome
effect upon interstate commerce in candies from other
states to the State of Illinois, and gives respondent an
undue and unreasonable preference over competitors located in other states." The validity of that finding and
of the Commission's conclusion that respondent's practices constitute unfair methods of competition are not in
issue. The only question presented by this petition for
certiorari is whether respondent's practices constitute unifair methods of competition "in commerce" within the
-meaning of § 5 (a) of the Federal Trade Commission
Act.

356

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

312 U. S.

I think they do.
Unfair competition involves not only an offender but
also a victim. Here some of the victims of the unfair
methods of competition are engaged in interstate commerce. The fact that the acts of the offender are intrastate is immaterial. The purpose of the Act is to protect
interstate commerce against specified types of injury.
So far as the jurisdiction of the Commission is concerned,
it is the existence of that injury to interstate commerce
not the interstate or intrastate character of the conduct
causing the injury which is important. An unfair
method of competition is "in" interstate commerce not
only when it has an interstate origin but also when it has
a direct interstate impact. Respondent is "using" unfair
methods of competition "in" interstate commerce when
the direct effect of its conduct is to burden, stifle, or impair that commerce.
Under the Sherman Act (26 Stat. 209) a contract or
conspiracy may be. "in restraint of trade or commerce
among the several States" even though the acts or conduct are intrastate. Swift & Co. v. United States, 196
U. S. 375, 397; United States v. Patten, 226 U. S. 525,
541-543; Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 283 U. S.
163, 168-169. Sec. 5 of the Federal Trade Commission
Act is "supplementary" to the Sherman Act. Federal
Trade Comm'n v. Raladam Co., 283 U. S.643, 647. Like
the Sherman Act it seeks "to protect the public from
abuses arising in the course of competitive interstate and
foreign trade. . . . The paramount aim of the act is
the protection of the public from the evils likely to result
from the destruction of competition or the restriction
of it in a substantial degree." Federal Trade Comm'n
v. Raladam Co., sitpra, pp. 647-648. And as this Court
said in Federal Trade Comm'n v. Beech-Nut Packing Co.,
257 U. S. 441, 453, the declaration of public policy contained in the Sherman Act is "to be considered in determining what are unfair methods of competition, which

o

TRADE COMM'N v. BUNTE BROS.
349

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

the Federal Trade Commission is empowered to condemn
and suppress." For the Federal Trade Commission Act
"undoubtedly was aimed at all the familiar methods of
law violation which prosecutions under the Sherman Act
had disclosed." Federal Trade Comm'n v. Keppel &
Bro., 291 U. S. 304, 310.
That history, of course, does not give us license to
disregard plain and unambiguous limitations on the
power of the Commission. But it does admonish us .to
construe one of a series of legislative acts dealing with
a common or related problem in light of the integrated
statutory scheme. See United States v. Hutcheson, ante,
p. 219. It warns us not to whittle away administrative
power by resolving an ambiguity against the existence
of that power where the full arsenal of that power is
necessary to cope with the evil at hand. The evil here
is direct, injurious discrimination against interstate commerce. The Commission has issued orders against some
120 of respondent's competitors prohibiting them from
selling chance assortments of candy in interstate commerce. Under this decision respondent may continue
to use this same unfair method of competition to increase
its business at the expense of those who sell in interstate
commerce and who are not free to employ the same
methods in self-defense. I think the Act, an exercise
by Congress of its commerce power, should be interpreted
to protect interstate commerce not to permit discrimination against it.
Such an approach was used in the Shreveport case
(234 U. S.342) to give the Interstate Commerce Commission control over intrastate rates which injuriously
affected, through an unreasonable discrimination, traffic
that was interstate. That result was reached though the
Act expressly denied the Commission any jurisdiction
where the "transportation" was "wholly within one
State." This Court said (234 U. S. at p. 358) that those

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

312 U. S.

words had "appropriate reference to exclusively intrastate
traffic, separately considered; to the regulation of domestic commerce, as such. The powers conferred by the
act are not thereby limited where interstate commerce
itself is involved." The interrelation between the intrastate and interstate activities in the instant case is hardly
less intimate than in the Shreveport case. The fact that
the nexus here is economic and not physical is inconsequential. In this case as in the other the problem is
the existence of administrative authority to provide effective protection of interstate commerce against discrimination. In the Shreveport case statutory doubts
were resolved so as to strengthen the administrative process even against the claim that thereby the state authorities would be "shorn of those powers which alone can
justify their existence." Similar arguments should not
deter us from being tolerant of an asserted power, admittedly constitutional, to deal effectively with the realities
of economic interdependence.
The fact that a clarifying amendment to the Act was
sought which would have removed the doubts as to the
meaning of "in commerce" is not material except to the
extent that it shows that doubts existed. It does not aid
in resolving those doubts. To be sure, recent statutes
dealing with other fields have removed such doubts by
explicit provisions. But they are of little aid in interpreting an earlier act in its own legislative setting. See
United States v. Stewart, 311 U. S.60, 69. And as to
the charge that for a quarter of a century the. Commission made no claim to such a power, two answers may
be made. In the first place, as early as 1921, the Commission urged that the doctrine of the Shreveport case
permitted an interpretation of the Act which would give
it control over certain intrastate activities. Canfield
Oil, Co. v. Federal Trade Comm'n, 274 F. 571; Hankin,
Jurisdiction of the Federal Trade Commission, 12 Calif.

NELSON v. SEARS, ROEBUCK & CO.
349

Syllabus.

L. Rev. 179, 197, et seq. Although the question does
not appear to have been definitely settled, in 1926 the
Commission received some support for its view. See
Chamber of Commerce v. Federal Trade Comm'n, 13 F.
2d 673, 684. Cf. American Can Co. v. Ladoga Canning

Co., 44 F. 2d 763, 770-771.

But in 1939 that power

denied. California Rice Industry v. Federal Trade
Comm'n, 102 F. 2d 716, 723. Nonuse of the asserted
was

power clearly cannot be inferred from that record. In the

second place, it would not be relevant if this power did

lay dormant for years. Mere nonuse does not subtract
from power which has been granted. The host of practical reasons which may defer exhaustion of administra-

tive powers lies in the realm of policy.

From that delay

we can hardly infer that the heed did not or does not

exist.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK and MR. JUSTICE REED
dissent.

join in this

NELSON, CHAIRMAN OF THE STATE TAX COMMISSION, ET AL. v. SEARS, ROEBUCK & CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF IOWA.
No. 255.

Argued January 13, 14, 1941.-Decided February 17, 1941.

The Iowa Use Tax Act, complementing a sales tax, requires every
retailer maintaining a place of business within the State, at the
time of making sales of tangible personal property for use within
the State, to collect from the purchaser the tax imposed. The
amount required to be collected is made a "debt" of the retailer to the State. Failure to collect the tax subjects a foreign
corporation to revocation of its permit to do business within the
State. Held that a foreign corporation which maintained retail
stores in Iowa may constitutionally be required to collect the
ta in respect of mail orders, sent by Iowa purchasers to out-ofstate branches of the corporation' and filled by direct shipment by
mail or common carrier from those branches to the purchasers,

