OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

312 U. S.

to the express words of the statute, because there was no
ulterior evil purpose in mind. The Murdock 'opinion
recognizes, p. 394, that the word "willful" often denotes
an intentional as distinguished from an accidental act.
Once the basic wrong under this passport statute is completed, that is the securing of a passport by a false statement, any intentional use of that passport in travel is
punishable.
Other suggestions as a basis for reversal are made.
These do not require particular comment.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

WARSZOWER v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 338.

FOR THE

Argued January 16, 17, 1941.-Decided February 17, 1941.

1. A citizen of the United States who willfully and knowingly uses
a United States passport which was secured by a false statement,
is guilty of an offense under § 2 of the Passport Title of the
Act of June 15, 1917, when the use was for the purpose of establishing his identity and citizenship and consequent right to reenter
this country from abroad. Browder v. United States, ante, p. 335.
P. 343.
2. Evidence consisting of a ship's manifest of incoming United States
citizens with their names and the numbers of their respective
passports, and the testimony of an immigration inspector as to
his practice of examining the passports in such cases, checking
their numbers with those on the manifest,-held sufficient to go to
the jury on the question whether the prisoner presented his passport on entering the country. P. 344.
3. Statements that were made by an accused before the commission
of the crime charged and which are inconsistent with his innocence
are admissible in evidence without corroborative proof. P. 347.
113 F. 2d 100, affirmed.

WARSZOWER v. UNITED STATES.
342

Opinion of the Court.

CERTioRARI, 311 U. S. 631, to review the affirmance of

a sentence under an indictment.
Mr. Osmond K. Fraenkel, with whom Mr. Edward I.
Aronow was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. John T. Cahill, with whom Solicitor General Biddle, Assistant Attorney General Berge, and Messrs. Herbert Wechsler and Robert L. Werner were. on the brief,
for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE REED

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case is similar to Browder v. United States, ante,
p. 335. This petitioner also was indicted for the use of
a passport for the purpose of entering the United States,
which passport had been secured by false statements in
the application for its issue. We granted certiorari because of the contention that this use of the passport was
not prohibited by § 2, Title IX of the Act of June 15,
1917, and because of a conflict on a rule of evidence, referred to by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The false statements charged were with respect to petitioner's name, citizenship, place of birth and residence
abroad and the use relied upon was the presentation of
the passport to an immigration inspector. A jury convicted petitioner, a sentence of two years was imposed
and that judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals.'
As grounds for reversal petitioner urges (1) that the
presentation of a wrongfully held passport to an immigration officer upon landing is not a use within the statute; (2) that the evidence of the use was insufficient to
justify the submission of the case to the jury; and (3)
that conviction was obtained by the use of admissions
1113 F. 2d 100.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

before the crime, without corroboration, to establish
necessary elements of the charge.
Nothing need be added to the discussion in the Browder case of the illegality of this use. There are no marks
of differentiation.
Proof of Presentation.-Petitioner'sargument that the
proof of presentation of the passport was insufficient rests
upon the testimony of the inspector, which was based on
the manifest of United States'citizens arriving on the
S. S. Normandie on September 30, 1937. The manifest
contains a list of names, accompanied by passport numbers and other information. Next to each name appears
a check mark by the inspector. The list includes "Robert Wiener," the holder of passport No. 332,207, which is
the passport issued to petitioner. The inspector testified that he had no independent recollection of the arrival of this Robert Wiener, but that from looking at the
manifest he could say that the passport had been presented to him, because "it is my invariable practice when
the number of the passport appears on the manifest to
ask for that passport and have it shown to me . . . by

the passenger." On cross-examination the inspector
stated that he himself did not make any writing on the
manifest as to what the people showed him. 'This colloquy then occurred:
"The COURT. .'. . do you make any entry on the

manifest when a man identifies himself as an American
citizen?
The WITNESS. The whole manifest is of American
citizens.
The COURT. And when the man presented his passport

what did you do?
The WITNESS. That check mark shows he was admitted as a United States citizen.
The COURT. On a passport?
The WITNESS. Not necessarily.
The COURT. Can you tell us whether he had a pass-

port?

WARSZOWER v. UNITED STATES.
342

Opinion of the Court.

The WITNESS. From the fact the number of the passport appears there.
Q. And you checkedMr. FOWLER. That is objected to.
Q. Did you check the information on the manifest with
information in the passport?
A. That is correct."
The petitioner asks reversal because of the answer "Not
necessarily," contending this shows that the check mark
did not inescapably indicate the presentation of a passport. The Government argues that the check mark was
intended merely to show admission as a citizen and that
the language does not nullify or indeed impugn the direct
assertions of the inspector. We are clear that this testimony as a whole justified the submission to the jury at
any rate and its conclusion that petitioner actually used
his passport in securing admission to this country.
Corroboration of Admissions.-The prosecution had
the burden of proving that the passport was obtained by
the use of false statements. As the trial court instructed
the jury it might convict if any one of the statements
charged in the indictment to be false was found false, it
is necessary before affirmance is justified to decide
whether there was adequate evidence to support the
charge of falsity as to each of the statements. Petitioner
contends that as to the allegedly false statements of
American citizenship and no prior residence outside the
United States, there was no proof of falsity except admissions to the contrary made by petitioner prior to the
use of the passport. Such admissions, it is urged, require
corroboration. This argument is drawn from the requirement of corroboration as to confessions after the crime.'
,Wharton, Criminal Law (12th Ed.) §§ 357, 359; Daeche v. United
States, 250 F. 566; Wigmore, Evidence (3rd Ed.) §§ 2070-71;
Chamberlayne, Modern Law of Evidence § 1598; Underhill, Criminal
Evidence (4th Ed.) p. 42.

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

As a corollary, it is said that the corroboration must reach
to each element of the corpus delicti.8
To establish that petitioner was not a citizen of the
United States and that he had resided abroad, the Government relied on the following proof: The manifest of
alien passengers of the S. S. Haverford; which arrived atPhiladelphia on March 27, 1914, stated that Welwel
Warszower, age 21, was a citizen or subject of Russia,
whose last permanent residence was in Vikolsk, Russia,
where his father lived; that he had never been in the
United States before; and that he had been born in
Radajenko, Russia. Although the officer who had examined Warszower on this occasion was dead, the boarding
officer testified it was the practice to check all answers on
the manifest with the alien personally before allowing him
to enter. Three years later, on June 5, 1917, petitioner
registered for the draft under the name of William
Weiner"; he stated he was an alien born in Russia on
September 5, 1893, and a citizen or subject of Russia.
Petitioner furnished the same information in a draft
questionnaire returned on December 31, 1917, where he
also stated that he spoke Russian, that he arrived in- this
country at Philadelphia on March 28, 1914, on the S. S.
Haverford, that his parents had not been naturalized,
that he had not taken out first papers, and that he was
willing to return to Russia and enter its military service.
In 1932, preparatory to traveling abroad, petitioner applied for a reentry permit, which is required only of
aliens. To support his application he showed the inspection card issued to him in 1.914 upon his arrival in
Philadelphia, and stated that he was born on September
5, 1893, at Kiev, Russia, which was his last permanent
residence before his arrival in Philadelphia. The GOvernment also showed that petitioner had never applied
'Cf. Forte v. United States, 68.App. D. C. 111; 94 F. 2d 236.

WARSZOWER v. UNITED STATES.
342

Opinion of the Court.

for naturalization under his own name, or the names
"Weiner" or "Wiener," which he on occasion used. In
his 1936 application for a passport in the name of Robert William Wiener, petitioner submitted a certified transcript of an entry in the Atlantic City birth records that
a person of that name was born there September 5, 1896,
but at the trial the Government proved the entry a
forgery.
The rule .requiring corroboration of confessions protects the administration of the criminal law against errors in 'convictions based upon untrue confessions alone.
Where the inconsistent statement was made prior to the
crime this danger does not exist.4 Therefore we are of
the view that such admissions do not need to be corroborated. They contain none of the inherent weaknesses of confessions or admissions after the fact. Cases
in the circuits are cited by petitioner to the contrary.
In Gulotta v. United States,5 the decision turned on the
similarity of confessions and admissions rather than upon
any differences between admissions before and after the
fact. In Duncan v. United States" and in Gordnier v.
United States 7 the conclusion was reached without any
comment upon this difference. Our consideration of the
effect of admissions prior to the crime leads us to the
other conclusion.8
The law requires that a jury be convinced beyond a
reasonable doubt of the defendant's guilt. An uncorroborated confession or evidence of perjury, given by one
witness only," does not as a matter of law establish be'Wigmore, supra.
113 F. 2d 683.
68 F. 2d 136.
7261 F. 910.
'Cf. Miles v., United States, 103 U. S. 304.
'Phair v. United States, 60 F. 2d 953. Cf. United States v. Harris,
311 U. S. 292.

348

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

yond a reasonable doubt the commission of a crime, but
these are exceptions to the normal requirement that
disputed questions of fact are to be submitted to the
jury under appropriate instructions. In this case the
earlier statements of birth and therefore necessarily of
residence outside of the United States, if believed by the
jury, prove the falsity of the statements to the contrary
in the application. Where the crime charged is a false
statement and where it finds its only proof in admissions
to the contrary prior to the act set out in the indictment,
it may be unlikely that a jury will conclude that the
falsity of the later statement is proven beyond a reasonable doubt, but such evidence justifies submission of the
question to them.
In this present case there was other evidence of the
falsity of the disputed statements in the application.
The manifest of the S. S. Haverford showed petitioner's
arrival and classification as an alien at Philadelphia in
1914. The forged birth certificate adds to the proof of
foreign birth by showing an effort to establish American
nativity by false means, and the Government's proof of
the absence of any attempt at naturalization supports
the allegation of false statement as to citizenship.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

or decision of this case.

took no part in the consideration

