ESTATE OF KELLER v. COMM'R.
Opinion of the Court.

ESTATE OF KELLER

ET AL.

v. COMMISSIONER

OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS 1'OR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 371.

Argued January 10, 1941.-Decided March 3, 1941.

1. Decided in part upon the authority of Helvering v. Le Gierse, ante,
p. 531. P. 543.
2. That a physical examination was not required is inconclusive as
to the non-existence of an "insurance risk." P. 544.
3. That the premium might not earn enough to cover profitably the
annuity payable to the decedent, or that there was a miscalculation
of the proper total consideration, does not in this case establish
the existence of an "insurance risk." P. 544.
113 F. 2d 833, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

311 U. S. 630, to review a judgment re-

versing a decison of the Board of Tax Appeals, 39 B. T. A.
1047, disapproving of a deficiency estate tax assessment.
Mr. Ferdinand T. Weil, with whom Mr. J. Smith
Christy was on the brief, for petitioners.
Assistant Attorney General Clark, with whom Solicitor General Biddle and Messrs. Sewall Key, Richard H.
Demuth, Maurice J. Mahoney, and Berryman Green were
on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case is companion to Helvering v. Le Gierse, ante,
p. 531. In all material respects the facts are alike except
for the differences to be noted. Here the annuity contract provided for annual payments of $390.84 and cost
decedent $3,258.20. The "insurance" policy stipulated
for payment of $20,000 to decedent's daughter at de-

544

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

cedent's death, and the single premium was $17,941.80.
Decedent was 74 at the time the contract was executed
and died about two years later. Proceeding on the same
theory as in the Le Gierse case, the Commissioner assessed
a deficiency in the federal estate tax which the Board
of Tax Appeals reversed. 39 B. T. A. 1047. The Circuit
Court of Appeals in turn reversed the Board of Tax
Appeals. 113 F. 2d 833. The case is here because of
conflict with the Le Gierse case (110 F. 2d 734).
Petitioners contend that this case is distinguishable
from the Le Gierse case because here the insurance company found that the total consideration for the two contracts, which was 106% of the face value of the policy,
was inadequate. They point out that the rate for this
combination of contracts was later increased to 108%
and finally to 110%. Further, they contend that absence
of physical examination does not establish absence of
risk, and that the Board of Tax Appeals found that there
was "some" risk to the insurance company.
We find the distinction insufficient to require a different
result.
It is not enough to show that the insurance company
,assumed "some" risk. A bank assumes a risk when it
accepts a depositor's funds and invests them. The investment may prove to be an unsafe one, or the bank
may have agreed to pay the depositor a higher rate of
interest than it can profitably earn on the funds it invests. Indisputably this is a risk. But it is not an insurance risk in the sense explained in the Le Gierse case.
That the insurance company subsequently changed the
total charge for this particular combination of contracts
because it was unprofitable does not establish the existence of an insurance risk. Rather, it illustrates strikingly the interrelation of the two agreements and emphasizes the effort of the company to remove all possible
investment risk.

ESTATE OF KELLER v. COMM'R.
543

Opinion of the Court.

Absence of a physical examination may well be inconclusive as to the existence of an insurance risk. For example, some companies do not require such an examination for group insurance. But there the risk as to one is
distributed among the group, an insurance risk squarely
within the definition stated in the Le Gierse case. Here
the annuity issued with the policy did more than substitute for a physical examination. It removed the necessity for any risk distribution and completely countervailed a risk otherwise assumed in the "insurance" policy.
The finding by the Board of Tax Appeals that there
was some risk necessarily is ambiguous in view of their
finding that the company annually earned from 32 to 4
percent on its own investments. It is therefore reasonable to conclude that the "risk" referred to was a risk
that the funds might not earn enough to cover profitably
the annuity payable to the decedent, or a risk due to a
miscalculation of the proper total consideration. In
either event it is not a finding of the existence of an
insurance risk.
Since the case is not distinguishable from Helvering
v. Le Gierse, supra, the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals is
Affirmed.

The

CHIEF JUSTICE

and MR.

JUSTICE ROBERTS

think the

judgment should be reversed for. the reasons stated in
the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Commissioner v. Le Gierse, 110 F. 2d 734.

361335o--41--35

