GORIN v. UNITED STATES.
1

Syllabus.

the issue pertain merely to diversity litigation. But
Rule 35 applies to all civil litigation in the federal courts,
and thus concerns the enforcement of federal rights and
not merely of state law in the federal courts.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE -DOUGLAS and MR.
JUSTICE MURPHY agree with these views.

GORIN v. UNITED STATES.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 87. Argued December 19, 1940.-Decided January 13, 1941.
1. In order to constitute the crimes denounced by §§ 1 (b) and 2 of
the Espionage Act-the obtaining of documents connected with or
relating to the national defense and their delivery to an agent of
a foreign country with an intent, or reason to believe, in each
case, that they are to be used to-the injury of the United States
or to the advantage of a foreign nation-it is not necessary that
the documents contain information concerning the places or things
(such as vessels, aircraft, forts, signal stations, codes or signal
books) which are specifically mentioned in §' 1 (a) of the Act.
P. 25.
2. "National defense" as used in §§ 1 (b) and 2 of the Espionage
Act refers to the military or naval establishments and to related
activities of national preparedness for war. P. 28.
3. With this meaning of "national defense" and with the elements
of scienter and bad faith which must be present, the sections are
sufficiently definite to apprise the public of the activities they prohibit; and they accord with due process. P. 27.
4. Information taken from reports in the files of the Naval Intelligence, giving a detailed picture of counter-espionage work, held
capable of use to the injury of the United States or to the advantage of a foreign nation, within the meaning of §§ 1 and 2 of
the Espionage Act. P. 29.
*Together with No. 88, Salich v. United States, also on certiorari,
310 -U. S. 622, to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

5. In establishing violations of §§ 1 (b) and 2 of the Espionage
Act, where it was proved that the forbidden information was to
be used to the advantage of a foreign nation, it was not necessary
to prove also that it was to be used to the injury of the United
States. P. 29.
6. In a prosecution under §§ 1 (b) and 2 of the Espionage Act the
jury determines whether the acts of the defedidants were connected
with or related to the national defense, under proper tests laid
down by the instructions. P. 30.
The function of the court is to instruct as to the kind of information which is violative of the statute, and that of the jury to
decide whether the information secured is of the defined kind.
It is not the function of the court, where reasonable men may
differ, to determine whether the acts do or do not come within
the ambit of the statute. The question of the connection of
the information with national defense is a question of fact to be
determined by the jury as negligence upon undisputed facts is
determined.
111 F.,2d 712, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 310 U. S. 622, to review the affirmance of
sentences for violations of the Espionage Act of June ,15,
1917.
Mr. Donald R. Richberg, with whom Messrs. Seth W.
Richardson, Isaac Pacht, Clore Warne, and Han y Gra-

h- 'n Balter were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Warner W. Gardner,with whom Solicitor General
Biddle, Assistant Attorney General Rogge, and Mr. Louis

B. Schwartz were on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This certiorari brings here a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals affirming the sentences of the two
petitioners who were convicted of violation of the Espionage Act of June 15, 1917. 111 F. 2d 712. As the affirmanoe turned upon a determination of the scope of the
Act and its constitutionality as construed, the petition

GORIN v. UNITED STATES.
19

Opinion of the Court.

was allowed because of the questions, important in
enforcing this criminal statute.
The joint indictment in three counts charged in the
first count violation of § 1 (b) by allegations in the words
of the statute of obtaining documents "connected with
the national defense"; in the second count violation of
§ 2 (a) in delivering and inducing the delivery of these
documents to the petitioner, Gorin, the agent of a foreign
nation; and in the third count of § 4 by conspiracy to
deliver them to a foreign government and its agent, just
named. The pertinent statutory provisions appear below.' A third party, the wife of Gorin, was joined in
'Espionage Act of June 15, 1917, c. 30, 40 Stat. 217:
"Title I. Espionage. Section 1. That (a) whoever, for the purpose of obtaining information respecting the national defense with
intent or reason to believe that the information to be obtained is to
be used to the injury of the United States, or to the advantage of any
foreign nation, goes upon, enters, flies over, or otherwise obtains information concerning any vessel, aircraft, work of defense, navy yard,
naval station, submarine base, coaling station, fort, battery, torpedo
station, dockyard, canal, railroad, arsenal, camp, factory, mine, telegraph, telephone, wireless, or signal station, building, office, or other
place connected with the national defense, . . . or any place in which

any vessel, aircraft, arms, munitions, or other materials or instruments
for use in time of war are being made, prepared, repaired, or
stored, .

.

.; or (b) whoever for the purpose aforesaid, and with

like intent or reason to believe, copies, takes, makes, or obtains, or
attempts, or induces or aids another to copy, take, make, or obtain,
any sketch, photograph, photographic negative, blue print, plan, map,
model, instrument, appliance, document, writing, or note of anything
connected with the national defense;

...

shall be punished by a

fine of not more than $10,000, or by imprisonment for not more than
two years, or both.
"See. 2. (a) Whoever, with intent or reason to believe that it is to
be used to the injury of the United States or to the advantage of a
foreign nation, communicates, delivers, or transmits, or attempts to,
or aids or induces another to, communicate, deliver, or transmit, to
any- foreign government, or to any faction or party or military or
naval force within a foreign country, whether recognized or unrecog-

22

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

and acquitted on all three counts. The petitioners were
found guilty on each count and sentenced to various
terms of imprisonment to run concurrently and fines of
$10,000 each. The longest term of Gorin is six years and
of Salich four years.
The proof indicated that Gorin, a citizen of the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics, acted as its agent in gathering information. He sought and obtained from Salich
for substantial pay the contents of over fifty reports
relating chiefly to Japanese activities in the United
States. These reports were in the files of the Naval Intelligence branch office at San Pedro, California. Salich,
nized by the United States, or to any representative, officer, agent,
employee, subject, or citizen thereof, either directly or indirectly, any
document, writing, code book, signal book, sketch, photograph, photographic negative, blue print, plan, map, model, note, instrument,
appliance, or information relating to the national defense, shall be
punished by imprisonment for not more than twenty years: Provided,
That whoever shall violate the provisions of subsection (a) of this
section in time of'war shall be punished by death or by imprisonment
for not more than thirty years; and (b) whoever, in time of war,
with intent that the same shall be communicated to the enemy, shall
collect, record, publish, or communicate, or attempt to elicit any information with respect to the movement, numbers, description, condition, or disposition of any of the armed forces, ships, aircraft, or
war materials of the United States, or with respect to the plans or
conduct, or supposed plans or conduct of any naval or military operations, or with respect to any works or measures undertaken for
or connected with, or intended for the fortification or defense of any
place, or any other information relating to the public defense, which
might be useful to the enemy, shall be punished by death or by imprisonment for not more than thirty years.
"Sec. 4. If two or more persons conspire to violate the provisions of
sections two or three of this title, and one or more of such persons
does any act to effect the object of the conspiracy, each of the parties
to such conspiracy shall be punished as in said sections provided in
the case of the doing of the act the accomplishment of which is the
object of such conspiracy .

GORIN v. UNITED STATES.
19

Opinion of the Court.

a naturalized, Russian-born citizen, had free access to
the records as he was a civilian investigator for that
office. Speaking broadly the reports detailed the coming
and going on the west coast of Japanese military and
civil officials as well as private citizens whose actions
were deemed of possible interest to the Intelligence Office. Some statements appear as to the movements of
fishing boats, suspected of espionage and as to the taking
of photographs of American war vessels.
Petitioners object to the convictions principally on the
grounds (1) that the prohibitions of the act are limited
to obtaining and delivering information concerning the
specifically described places and things set out in the
act, such as a vessel, aircraft, fort, signal station, code
or signal book; and (2) that an interpretation which put
within the statute the furnishing of any other information connected with or relating to the national defense
than that concerning these specifically described places
and things would make the act unconstitutional as violative of due process because of indefiniteness.
The philosophy behind the insistence, that the prohibitions of §§ 1 (b) and 2 (a), upon which the indictment
is based, are limited to the places and things which are
specifically set out in § 1 (a) relies upon the traditional
freedom of discussion of matters connected with national
defense which is permitted in this country. It would
require, urge petitioners, the clearest sort of declaration
by the Congress to bring under the statute the obtaining
and delivering to a foreign government for its advantage
of reports generally published and available which deal
with food production, the advances of civil aeronautics,
reserves of raw materials or other similar matters not
directly connected with and yet of the greatest importance to national defense. The possibility of such an
interpretation of the terms "connected with" or "relating to" iational defense is to be avoided by construing

24

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

the act so as "to make it a crime only to obtain information as to places and things specifically listed in section 1
as connected with or related to the national defense."
Petitioners argue that the statute should not be construed so as to leave to a jury to determine whether an
innocuous report on a crop yield is "connected" with
the national defense.
Petitioners rely upon the legislative history to support
this position.! The passage of the Espionage Act 3 during the World War year of 1917 attracted the close
scrutiny of Congress and resulted in different bills in the
two Houses which were reconciled only after a second
conference report. Nothing more definite appears in this
history as to the Congressional intention in regard to
limiting the act's prohibitions upon which this indictment depends to the places and things in § 1 (a), than
that r,House definition of "national defense" which
gave it a broad meaning was stricken out4 and the conference report stated as to the final form of the present
act: "Section 1 sets out the places connected with the
national defense to which the prohibitions of the section
apply." Neither change seems significant on this inquiry. The House bill had not specified the places under
surveillance. The Conference change made. them definite. The fact that the clause "or other place connected
with the national defense" is also included in § 1 (a) is
'H.R. 291, 65th Cong., 1st Sess.; Conference Report No. 69, 55
Cong. Rec. 3301.
' Other titles such as neutrality, foreign commerce and at one time
censorship, 55 Cong. Rec. 2097, 2102; 2109-2111; 2262; 2265; 3145;
3259; 3266, added to the difficulties.
'That definition read: "Section 1202. The term 'national defense'
as used herein shall include any person, place, or thing in anywise
having to do with the preparation for or the consideration or execution of any military or naval plans, expeditions, orders, supplies, or
warfare for the advantage, defense, or security of the United States
of America."

GORIN v. UNITED'STATES.
19

Opinion of the Court.

not an unusual manner of protecting enactments against
inadvertent omissions. With this specific designation of
prohibited places, the broad definition of § 1202 of the
House was stricken as no longer apt and, as stated in
Conference Report No. 69, § 6 of. the act 'was therefore
adopted. Obviously the purpose was to give flexibility
to the designated places.5 We see nothing in this legislative history to affect our conclusion which is drawn
from the meaning of the entire act." An"examination of the words of the statute satisfies
us that the meaning of national defense in §§ 1 (b) and
2 (a) cannot be limited to the places and things specified
in § 1 (a). Certainly there is no such express limitation
in the later sections. Section 1 (a) lays down the test
of purpose and intent and then defines the crime as going
upon or otherwise obtaining information as to named
things and places connected with the national defense.
Section 1 (b) adopts the same purpose and intent of 1 (a)
and then defines the crime as copying, taking or picturing certain articles such as models, appliances, documents, and so forth of anything connected with the
national defense. None of the articles specified in 1 (b)
are the same as the things specified in 1 (a). Apparently the draftsmen of the act first set out the places to.
be 'protected, and included in that connotation ships and
planes, and then in 1 (b) covered much of the contents
of such places in the nature of plans and documents.
Section 2 (a), it will be observed, covers in much the
same way the delivery of these movable articles or information to a foreign nation or its agent. If a govern'55 Cong. Rec. 3306. Subsequent legislation relating to the protection of national defense information is not important. The act of
January 12, 1938, 52 Stat. 3, is to protect against innocent disclosures.
S. PRep. 108, 75th Cong., 2nd Sess.
Public No. 443, 76th Cong., 3d Sess., is merely an increase of
penalties.
'Cf. United States v. American Trucking Ass'ns, 310 U. S. 534, 543.

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

ment model of a new weapon were obtained or delivered
there seems to be little logic in making its transfer a
crime only when it is connected in some undefined
way with the places catalogued under 1 (a). It is our
view that it is a crime to obtain or deliver, in violation
of the intent and purposes specified, the things described
in §§ 1 (b) and 2 (a) without regard to their connection
with the places and things of 1 (a).
In each of these sections the document or other thing
protected is required also to be "connected with" or "relating to" the national defense. The sections are not
simple prohibitions against obtaining or delivering to
foreign powers information which a jury may consider
relating to national defense. If this were the language,
it would need to be tested by the inquiry as to whether
it had double meaning 7 or forced anyone, at his peril,
to speculate as to whether certain actions violated the
statute.' This Court has frequently held criminal laws
deemed to violate these tests invalid. United States v.
Cohen Grocery Co.,O urged as a precedent by petitioners,
points out that the statute there under consideration forbade no specific act,"0 that it really punished acts "detrimental to the public interest when unjust and unreason-able" in a jury's view. In Lanzetta v. New Jersey" the
statute Was equally vague. "Any person not engaged in'
any lawful occupation, known to be a member of any
gang ... , who has been convicted at least three times
of being a disorderly person, or who has been convicted
'United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214.
'Lanzetta v. New Jersey, 306 U. S. 451.

255 U. S. 81, 89.
" That it is hereby made unlawful for any person willfully ...

to make any unjust or unreasonable rate or charge in handling or
dealing in or with any necessaries." Act of October 22, 1919, c. 80,
§ 2, 41 Stat. 297.
u306 U. S. 451.

GORIN v. UNITED STATES.
19

27

Opinion of the Court.

of any crime in this or any other State, is declared to be
a gangster . . ." We there said that the statute "con-

demns no act or omission"; that the vagueness is such
as "to violate due process."
But we find no uncertainty in this statute which deprives a person of the ability to predetermine whether
a contemplated action is criminal under the provisions
of this law.1" The obvious delimiting words in the statute
are those requiring "intent or reason to believe that the
information to be obtained is to be used to the injury
of the United States, or to the advantage of any foreign
"Criminal statutes deemed vague: International Harvester Co. v.
Kentucky, 234 U. S. 216, 221-224 (raising prices above "market value
under fair competition, and under normal market conditions"); Collins v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 634 (same); Weeds, Inc. v. United States,
255 U. S. 109 (exacting "excessive prices for any nebessaries");
Stromberg v. California,283 U. S. 359, 369 (displaying any "symbol or
emblem of opposition to organized government"); Smith v. Cahoon,
283 U. S. 553, 564-565 (such provisions regulating common carriers as
could constitutionally be applied to private carriers); Herndon v.
Lowry, 301 U. S. 242, 261-264 (distribution of pamphlets intended
at any time in the future to lead to forcible resistance to law).
.
' Cf. Adequately definite criminal statutes: Lloyd v. Dollison, 194
U. S. 445, 450 (liquor restrictions varying according to sale at "wholesale" or "retail"); Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas (No. 1), 212 U. S.
86, 108-111 (contracts "reasonably calculated" or which "tend" to
fix prices); Nash v. United States, 229 U. S. 373, 376-378 (unreasonable or undue restraints of trade); Omaechevarriav. Idaho, 246 U. S.
343, 345, 348 ("any cattle range previously . . . or . . . usually occupied by any cattle grower"); Hygrade Provision Co. v. Sherman,
266 U. S. 497, 501-503 (meat represented to be "kosher"); Miller
v. Oregon, 273 U. S. 657 (dangerous rate of speed; see 274 U. S. at
464-465); United States v. Alford, 274 U. S. 264, 267 (building fires
"near" any forest or inflammable material); United States v. Wurzbach, 280 U. S. 396, 399 (receiving contributions for "any political
purpose whatever"); United States v. Shreveport Grain & Elevator
Co., 287 U. S. 77, 81-82 ("reasonable variations" in weight or measure) ; Kay v. United States, 303 U. S. 1, 8-9 ("ordinary fees . . . for
services actually rendered").

28

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

nation." This requires those prosecuted to have acted
in bad faith. The sanctions apply only when scienter
is established. 4 Where there is no occasion for secrecy,
as with reports relating to national defense, published by
authority of Congress or the military departments, there
can, of course, in all likelihood be no reasonable intent
to give an advantage to a foreign government. Finally,
we are of the view that the use of the words "national
defense" has given them, as here employed, a well understood connotation. They were used in the Defense
Secrets Act of 1911.1' The traditional concept of war
as a struggle between nations is not changed by the intensity of support given to the armed forces by civilians
or the extension of the combat area. National defense,
the Government maintains, "is a generic concept of
broad connotations, referring to the military and naval
establishments and the related activities of national preparedness." We agree that the words "national defense"
Whether a
in the Espionage Act carry that meaning.
document or report is covered by §§ 1 (b) or 2 (a) depends upon its relation to the national defense, as so
defined, not upon its connection with places specified
in § 1 (a). The language employed appears sufficiently
definite to apprise the public of prohibited activities and
is consonant with due process.
At the conclusion of all the evidence petitioners sought
a directed verdict of acquittal because (1) the innocuous
character of the evidence forbade a conclusion that petitioners had intent or reason to believe that the informa"Cf.. Hygrade Provision Co. v. Sherman, 266 U. S. 497, 501.
" 36 Stat. 1084: "That whoever, for the purpose of obtaining information respecting the national defense, to which he is not lawfully entitled, goes upon any vessel, or enters any navy-yard, naval
station, fort, battery, torpedo station, arsenal, camp, factory, building, office, or other place connected with the national defense, owned
or constructed or in process of construction by the United
States . . "

GORIN v. UNITED STATES.
19

Opinion of the Court.

tion was to be used to the injury of the United States
or the advantage of a foreign nation and (2) the evidence failed to disclose that any of the reports related to
or was connected with the national defense. As a corollary to this second contention, reversal is sought on the
ground that the trial court overruled the petitioners'
objection that as a matter of law none of the reports
dealt with national defense. That is, as the trial court
stated the objection, that "the jury has no privilege in
determining whether or no any of these reports have to
do with the national defense, that that is a matter for
the Court and not for the jury, as a matter of law."
To justify a court's refusing to permit a jury to consider a defendant's intent in obtaining and delivering
these reports, one would be compelled to conclude that
nothing in them could be violative of the law. As they
gave a detailed picture of the counter-espionage work of
the Naval Intelligence, drawn from its own files, they
must be considered as dealing with activities of the military forces. A foreign government in possession of this information would be in a position to use it either for itself,
in following the movements of the agents reported upoh,
or as a check upon this country's efficiency in ferreting
out foreign espionage. It could use the reports to advise
the state of the persons involved of the surveillance exercised by the United States over the movements of these
foreign citizens. The reports, in short, are a part of this
nation's plan for armed defense. The part relating to
espionage and counter-espionage cannot be viewed as
separated from the whole.
Nor do we think it necessary to prove that the information obtained was to be used to the injury of the
United States. The statute is explicit in phrasing the
crime of espionage as an act of obtaining information
relating to the national defense "to be used . . . to
the advantage of any foreign -nation." No distinction

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

is made between friend or enemy. Unhappily the status
of a foreign government may change. The evil which
the statute punishes is the obtaining or furnishing of
this guarded information, either to our hurt or another's
gain. If we accept petitioners' contention that "advantage" means advantage as against the United States, it
would be a useless addition, as no advantage could be
given our competitor or opponent in that sense without
injury to us.
An examination of the instructions convinces.us that
no injustice was done petitioners by their content.
Weighed by the test previously outlined of relation to
the military establishments, they are favorable to petitioners' contentions. A few excerpts will make this clear:
"You are instructed that the term 'national defense'
includes all matters directly and reasonably connected
with the defense of our nation against its enemies.
.. . As you will note, the statute specifically mentions the places and things connected with or comprising
the first line of defense when it mentions vessels, aircraft, works of defense, fort or battery and torpedo stations. You will note, also, that the statute specifically
mentions by name certain other places or things relating
to what we may call the secondary line of national defense. Thus some at least of the storage of reserves of
men and materials is ordinarily done at naval stations,
submarine bases, coaling stations, dock yards, arsenals
and camps; all of which are specifically designated in the
statute. . . . You are instructed in the first place
that for purposes of prosecution under these statutes,
the information, documents, plans, maps, etc., connected
with these places or things must directly relate to the
efficiency and effectiveness of the operation of said places
or things as instruments for defending our nation.
• . . You are instructed that in the second place the
information, documents or notes must relate to those an-

GORIN v. UNITED STATES.
19

Opinion of the Court.

gles or phrases of the instrumentality, place or thing which
relates to the defense of our nation; thus if a place or
thing has one use in peacetime and another use in wartime, you are to distinguish between information relating
to the one or the other use ...
"The information, document or note might also relate
to the possession of such information by another nation
and as such might also come within the possible
scope of this statute. . .
For from the standpoint of
military or naval strategy it might not only be dangerous to us for a foreign power to know our weaknesses
and our limitations, but it might also be dangerous to
us when such a foreign power knows that we know that
they know of our limitations.
"You are, then, to remember that the information,
documents or notes, which are alleged to have been
connected with the national defense, may relate or pertain to the usefulness, efficiency or availability of any of
the above places, instrumentalities or things for the defense of the United States of America. The connection
must not be a strained one nor an arbitrary one. The
relationship must be reasonable and direct."
Petitioners' objection, however, is that after having
given these instructions, the court instead of determining
whether the reports were or were not connected with
national defense, left this question to the jury in these
words:
"Whether or not the information, obtained by any defendant in this case, concerned, regarded or was connected 'with the national defense is a question of fact
solely for the determination of this jury, under these
instructions."
These quotations show that the trial court undertook
to give to the jury the tests by which they were to determine whether the acts of the petitioners were connected with or related to the national defense. We are

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

of the opinion this was properly left to the jury. If we
assume, as we must here after our earlier discussion as
to the definiteness of the statute, that the words of the
statute are sufficiently specific to advise the ordinary
man of its scope, we think it follows that the words of
the instructions give adequate definition to "connected
with" or "relating to" national defense. The inquiry
directed at the instructions is whether the jury is given
sufficient guidance to enable it to determine whether the
acts of the petitioners were within the prohibitions.
These instructions set out the definition of national defense in a manner favorable and unobjectionable to petitioners. When they refer to facts connected with or
related to defense, however, petitioners urge that the
connection should be determined by the court. Instructions' can, of course, go no farther than to say the connection must be reasonable, direct and natural. Further
elaboration would not clarify. The function of the court
is to instruct as to the kind of information which is violative of the statute, and of the jury to decide whether the
information secured is of the defined kind. It is not the
function of the court, where reasonable men may differ,
to determine whether the acts do or do not come within
the ambit of the statute. The question of the connection of the information with national defense is a question of fact to be determined by the jury as negligence
upon undisputed facts is determined."
In a trial under an indictment for violation of § 3 17 of
this same Espionage Act, this Court had occasion to conGrand Trunk Ry. Co. v. Ives, 144 U. S. 408, 417; Gunning v.
Cooley, 281 U. S.90, 94. Cf. Dunlop v. United States, 165 U. S.
486, 500-501.
1 40 Stat. 217, 219, c. 30:"Sec. 3. Whoever, when the United States is at war, shall willfully
make or convey false reports or false statements with intent to interfere with the operation or success of the military or naval forces of
the United States or to promote the success of its enemies and who-

GORIN v. UNITED STATES.
19

Opinion of the Court.

sider a similar question as to the function of the jury. A
pamphlet was introduced as evidence of making false
statements with the intent to cause insubordination. To
the objection that the pamphlet could not legitimately
be construed as tending to produce the prohibited consequences this Court said: "What interpretation ought to
be placed upon the pamphlet, what would be the probable effect of distributing it in the mode adopted, and
what were defendants' motives in doing this, were questions for the jury, not the court, to decide ...
Whether the printed words would in fact produce as a
proximate result a material interference with the recruiting or enlistment service, or the operation or success of
the forces of the United States, was a question for the
jury to decide in view of all the circumstances of the
time and considering the place and manner of
distribution." 11
Viewing the instructions as a whole, we find no objection sufficient to justify reversal.
The Circuit Court of Appeals properly refused to consider the errors alleged with respect to the conspiracy
count."9
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

took no part in the considera-

tion or decision of this case.
ever, when the United States is at war, shall willfully causo or attempt to cause insubordination, disloyalty, mutiny, or refusal of duty,
in the military or naval forces of the United States, or shall willfully
obstruct the recruiting or enlistment service of the United States, to
the injury of the service or of the United Staes, shall be punished by
a fine of no more than $10,000 or imprisonment for not more than
twenty years, or both."
"Pierce v. United States, 252 U. S. 239, 250. Justices Brandeis and
Holmes dissented, largely on the ground that the jury should not be
left to decide whether statements in the pamphlet were facts or conclusions. Id., p. 269.
Brooks v. United States, 267 U. S. 432, 441.
301335*-41-

3

