J UST v. CHAMBERS.
Statement of the Case.

JUST ET AL. V. CHAMBERS, EXECUTRIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 373.

Argued February 5, 6, 1941.-Decided March 3, 1941.

1. The court accepts concurrent findings by two courts below on
matters of fact. P. 385.
2. By the law of Florida, a cause of action for personal injury due
to another's negligence survives the death of the tort-feasor.
P. 385.
3. Federal statutory provision for limitation, of liability embraces
claims for damages against the vessel-owner for personal injuries
suffered on board through his negligence.. P. 385.
4. When the jurisdiction of the court of admiralty has attached
through a petition for limitation, the jurisdiction to determine
claims is not lost merely because the shipowner fails to establish
his right to limitation. Claimants will be furnished a complete
remedy by distribution of the res and by judgments in personam
for deficiencies against the owner. P. 386.
5. A cause of action against the owner of the vessel for personal
injuries suffered aboard on navigable waters within the boundary
of a State, and which under the state law survives his death,
survives also in admiralty against his estate and against the
vessel. P. 391.
With respect to maritime torts, a State may modify or supplement the maritime law by creating liability which a court
of admiralty will recognize and enforce when the state action is
not hostile to the characteristic features of the maritime law or
inconsistent with federal legislation.
113 F. 2d 105, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

311 U. S. 634, to review a decree which in

part affirmed and in part reversed an interlocutory decree of the District Court sitting in admiralty in a proceeding begun by a petition for limitation of liability.
The District Court had held that certain claims for personal injuries suffered through the negligence of the
vessel-owner, who afterwards had died, were enforcible
against his estate as well as the vessel. The Circuit Court

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

of Appeals decided that the liability in personam did not
survive the death and that recovery was therefore limited
to the value of the ship.
Mr. W. 0. Mehrtens, with whom Messrs. Samuel W.
Fordyce, Walter R. Mayne, and M. L. Mershon were on
the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Raymond Parmer, with whom Mr. Vernon S.
Jones was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Respondent, as executrix of the estate of Henry C.
Yeiser, Jr., owner of the yacht "Friendship II," brought
this proceeding in admiralty for limitation of liability.
46 U. S. C. 183., Petitioners presented claims for damages for personal injuries due to carbon monoxide gas
poisoning alleged to have occurred on board the vessel.
It was cruising at the time within the territorial limits
of the State of Florida and petitioners were guests of
the owner. On the owner's death, petitioners' claims
were filed against his estate.
Upon the facts the District Court found liability to
the claimants and denied limitation upon the ground of
neglect of duty by the owner. The court held that under
a statute of Florida the claimants' causes .of action survived the owner's death.
Upon appeal from the interlocutory decree (28 U. S. C.
227) the Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that all the
findings of fact made by the District Judge were supported by the evidence; that, as the injuries thus proved
were not occasioned without the knowledge or privity of
the shipowner, respondent could not have limitation;
that as the ship was at fault as well as the owner
the causes of action in rem survived the owner's death
and the claimants on that ground might recover up to

JUST v. CHAMBERS.
383

Opinion of the Court.

the value of the ship, but that under the governing
principles of admiralty law the personal liability of the
owner did not survive. 113 F. 2d 105. Because of the
importance of the question as to the enforceability in
admiralty of the claims for personal injuries against the
estate of the deceased tortfeasor, we granted certiorari,
311 U. S.634.
In support of the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, respondent asks us to review the evidence with
respect to the cause of the claimants' injuries and the
breach of duty by the shipowner, contending that the
evidence was insufficient to support the findings. Applying the well-established rule, we accept the concurrent findings of the courts below upon these matters
(Texas & New Orleans R. Co. v. Railway Clerks, 281
U. S. 548, 558) and we confine our attention to the question of the survival of the causes of action.
There is no question that there was a maritime tort.
There is also no question that the injury occurred within
the territorial limits of Florida and that under the local
statute, as construed by the Supreme Court of the State,
the causes of action survived against the wrongdoer's
estate. This was recognized by the Circuit Court of
Appeals. 113 F. 2d p. 107. Compiled General Laws of
Florida (1927), § 4211; Waller v. First Savings & Trust
Co., 103 Fla. 1025, 1047, 1049; 138 So. 780; Granatv. Biscayne Trust Co., 109 Fla. 485, 488; 147 So. 850; State ex
rel. Wolfe ConstructionCo. v. Parks, 129 Fla. 50, 56, 57;
175 So. 786.
The statutory provision for limitation of liability, enacted in the light of the maritime law of modern Europe
and of legislation in England, has been broadly and liberally construed in order to achieve its purpose to encourage investments in shipbuilding and to afford an
opportunity for the determination of claims against the
vessel and its owner. Norwich Company v. Wright, 13
3o1335.--41-25.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

Wall. 104, 121. It looks to a complete disposition of
what may be a "many cornered controversy," thus applying to proceedings in rem against the ship as well
as to proceedings in personam against the owner, the
limitation extending to the owner's property as well as
to his person. The City of Norwich, 118 U. S. 468, 503;
Hartford Accident Co. v. Southern Pacific Co., 273 U. S.
207, 216. It applies to cases of personal injury and
death as well as to cases of injury to property. Butler
v. Boston Steamship Co., 130 U. S. 527, 552; The Albert
Dumois, 177 U. S. 240, 259. The limitation extends to
tort claims even when the tort is non-maritime. Richardson v. Harmon, 222 U. S. 96.
When the jurisdiction of the court in admiralty has
attached through a petition for limitation, the jurisdiction to determine claims is not lost merely because the
shipowner fails to establish his right to limitation. We
have said that the court of admiralty in such a proceeding acquires the right to marshal all claims, whether
of strictly admiralty origin or not, and to give effect to
them by the apportionment of the res and by judgment
in personam against the owner, so far as the court may
decree. And that, if Congress has this constitutional
power, it necessarily follows, as incidental to that power,
that it may furnish a complete remedy for the 'satisfac.tion of those claims by distribution of the res and by
judgments in personam for deficiencies against the
owner, if he is not released by virtue of the statute.
Hartford Accident Co. v. Southern Pacific Co., supra,
p. 217. While it is recognized that the equitable rule
for retaining jurisdiction in order completely to dispose
of a cause does not usually apply in admiralty, the proceeding for limitation of liability is different from the
ordinary admiralty suit and, by reason of the statute
and rules governing it, the court of admiralty has authority to grant an injunction and thus bring litigants

JUST v. CHAMBERS.
383

Opinion of the Court.

into the admiralty court. There is thus jurisdiction
to fulfill the obligation to do equity to claimants by
furnishing them a complete remedy although limitation
is refused. Id., p. 218.
But respondent contends that to permit recovery upon
the claims here in question would do violence to a precept of the admiralty law that causes of action for personal injury die with the person. Respondent argues
that the source of this principle was not the common
law 1 but the civil law' and that it should be regarded
as an integral part of the maritime law, considered as an
independent body of law, and hence can be changed only
by Congress, which has not acted.8
Whether the particular rule now invoked is so securely
based in our maritime law 4 that a different one can be
established only by legislation and not by the exercise
of the judicial power responding to present standards
of justice,' we need not now consider. For, while the
injury occurred on navigable waters, these were within
the limits of Florida whose legislation provided that the
cause of action should survive. And it is not a principle
of our maritime law that a court of admiralty must invariably refuse to recognize and enforce a liability which
to the rule in the common law, see Holdsworth's History of
English Law, Vol. 3, pp. 576-578.
'Inst. Just. Lib. IV, Tit. XII, Cooper, p. 364, Sandars, p. 476.
'The "Death on the High Seas" Act, 46 U. S. C. 761-768, is not
applicable, as it occupies a limited field and even as to wrongful
death provides that the provisions of state statutes shall not be
affected.
'The rule of the non-survival of a cause of action against a deceased tortfeasor has but a slender basis in admiralty cases in this
country. See Crapo v. Allen, 6 Fed. Cas. (No. 3360) 763; Cutting v.
Seabury, 1 Sprague 522, 525; In re Statler, 31 F. 2d 767, 36 F. 2d
1021; Cortes v. Baltimore. Insular Line, 287 U. S. 367, 371. The
precise question here presented does not seem to have been authoritatively determined.
'See The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558, 572-574.
1As

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

the State has established in dealing with a maritime
subject. On the contrary, there are numerous instances
in which the general maritime law has been modifed or
supplemented by state action, as e. g. in creating liens
for repairs or supplies furnished to a vessel in her home
port. The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558, 580; The J. E.
Rumbell, 148 U. S. 1, 12.' With respect to maritime
torts we have held that the State may modify or supplement the maritime law by creating liability which a
court of admiralty will recognize and enforce when the
state action is not hostile to the characteristic features
of the maritime law or inconsistent with federal legislation. The City of Norwalk, 55 F. 98; Western Fuel
Co. v. Garcia, 257 U. S. 233, 242; Great Lakes Dredge
Co. v. Kierejewski, 261 U. S. 479; Vancouver Steamship
Co. v. Rice, 288 U. S. 445.7
This is illustrated, in the cases Pited, by the effect
given in admiralty to state legislation creating liability
for wrongful death. The leading continental States of
Europe, whose jurisprudence was developed from the
civil law, have given a remedy in such a case,8 but a
right of action was denied by the common law and likewise by the admiralty in England. And this Court, upon
an elaborate review of the decisions, concluded that no
suit for wrongful death would lie "in the courts of the
United States under the general maritime law." The
Harrisburg, 119 U. S. 199, 213. See, also, The Corsair,
145 U. S. 335, 344. The absence of a federal or state
Many other instances are listed in The City of Norwalk, 55 F. 98,
106, 107.
'See, also, Grant Smith-Porter Co. v. Rohde, 257 U. S. 469, 477,
478; Millers' Underwriters v. Braud, 270 U. S. 59, 64. Compare
Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205, 216, 220; Chelentis v.
Luckenbach S. S. Co., 247 U. S. 372; Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S. 149; Robins Dry Dock Co. v. Dahl, 266 U. S. 449.
'Hughes on Admiralty, Chap. X, §§ 108-110, pp. 224-226. See,
also, The Harrisburg,119 U. S. 199, 212, 213.

JUST v. CHAMBERS.
383

Opinion of the Court.

statute giving a right of action was emphasized.

But

when a State, acting within its province, has created
liability for wrongful death, the admiralty will enforce
it.
There was a careful and comprehensive exposition
of this subject by Judge Addison Brown in The City of
Norwalk, supra, decided shortly after The Corsair, supra.
He observed that if it was not within the power of the
State to create such a liability in a maritime case, the
statutes of the majority of the States would be void
so far as they related to deaths in cases arising on navigable waters. But the validity of judgments in the state
courts giving damages in such cases, and the validity of
the statutes on which they rested, had been sustained.
Steamboat Company v. Chase, 16 Wall. 522; Sherlock v.
Alling, 93 U. S. 99. The grounds of objection to the
admiralty jurisdiction in enforcing liability for wrongful
death were similar to those urged here; that is, that the
Constitution presupposes a body of maritime law, that
this law, as a matter of interstate and international concern, requires harmony in its administration and cannot
be subject to defeat or impairment by the diverse legislation of the States, and hence that Congress %lone can
make any needed changes in the general rules of the
maritime law. But these contentions proved unavailing
and the principle was maintained that a State, in the
exercise of its police power, may establish rules applicable on land and water within its limits, even though
these rules incidentally affect maritime affairs, provided
that the state action "does not contravene any acts of
Congress, nor work any prejudice to the characteristic
features of the maritime law, nor interfere with its proper
harmony and uniformity in its international and interstate relations." It was decided that the state legislation encountered none of these objections. The many
instances in' which state action had created new rights,

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

recognized and enforced in admiralty, were set forth in
The City of Norwalk, and reference was also made to
the numerous local regulations under state-authority
concerning the navigation of rivers and harbors. There
was the further pertinent observation that the maritime
law was not a complete and perfect system' and that
in all maritime countries there is a considerable body of
municipal law that underlies the maritime law as the
basis of its administration. These views find abundant
support in the history of the maritime law and in the decisions of this Court.
In The Hamilton, 207 U. S. 398, there was a proceeding in admiralty for limitation of liability in respect of
a collision on the high seas, both vessels belonging to
corporations of the State of Delaware. The Court held
that a Delaware statute giving damages for wrongful
death was a valid exercise of the legislative power, and
that there was thus created a personal liability of the
owner to the claimants which admiralty would respect.
Moreover, as the case was one for limitation of liability,
the Court noted that the federal statute had enabled the
owner to transfer liability to a fund and to the exclusive
jurisdiction of admiralty and hence "all claims to which
the admiralty does not deny existence" must be recognized. In La Bourgogne, 210-U. S. 95, 139, also a limited
liability proceeding, the reasoning of The Hamilton was
followed in the ruling that, as the case was one of a
French vessel and the law of France gave a right of
action for wrongful death, our court of admiralty would
enforce the claim.
Finally, in Western Fuel Co. v. qarcia, supra, the
Court deemed it to be the logical result of prior decisions that where death "results from a maritime tort
committed on navigable waters within a State whose
statutes give a right of action on account of death by
'See The Blackheath, 195 U. S. 361, 365.

JUST v. CHAMBERS.
383

Opinion of the Court.

wrongful act, the admiralty courts will entertain a libel
inpersonam for the damages sustained by those to whom
such right is given." The libel there failed solely because suit was barred by the state statute of limitations.
And the criterion applied in determining the validity and
effect of the state legislation was set forth in substantially the same terms as those stated in The City of
Norwalk, above quoted. Western Fuel Co. v. Garcia,
supra, p. 242.
This criterion is manifestly not limited to cases of
wrongful death. It is a broad recognition of the authority of the States to create rights and liabilities with
respect to conduct within their borders, when the state
action does not run counter to federal laws or the essential features of an exclusive federal jurisdiction. See
Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S.352, 402-410. We see
no reason why, under this test, the Florida rule in providing for the survival of a cause of action against a
deceased tortfeasor for injuries occurring on navigable
waters within the limits of the State should not be
applied.
Respondent argues that, in relation to wrongful death,
the maritime law had left the matter "untouched" (The
Harrisburg,supra) and thus the stae law was admitted
to supplement the maritime law, while in the instant case
there is a positive rule of admiralty against the survival
of the cause of action. That is, in the one case, there is
-said to'be a "void" in the maritime law, which the state
law may fill, while in the other there is an attempt to
modify an existing principle. This is a subtlety which
we think does not merit judicial adoption. The admiralty rule in the case of wrongful death can be stated
either negatively or positively, and the result does not
,turn on the mere mode of expression. The pith of the
matter is that the maritime law, as we conceived it, did
not permit recovery, and in the same sense, in substance,

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

the maritime law denied the survival of causes of action
against a deceased tortfeasor. The maritime law would
be supplemented or modified by state legislation in the
one case as truly as in the other, and either supplement
or modification is permissible in accordance with the accepted criterion.
Our decisions in the wrongful death cases also meet
the further argument which is addressed to lack of uniformity. For whatever lack of uniformity there may be
in giving effect to the state rule as to survival is equally
present when the state rule is applied to wrongful death,
or, for that matter, in any case when state legislation is
upheld in its dealing with local concerns in the absence
of federal legislation. Uniformity is required only when
the essential features of an exclusive federal jurisdiction
are involved. But as admiralty takes cognizance of
maritime torts, there is no repugnancy to its characteristic features either in permitting recovery for wrongful
death or in allowing compensation for a wrong to the
living to be obtained from a tortfeasor's estate. A
fortiori, in applying the established rules as to proof of
claims in limitation proceedings, petitioners, brought into
admiralty; were entitled to have their claims against the
shipowner's estate heard and determined.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and that of the District Court is affirmed.
Reversed.

