OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

312 U. S.

liucs, is warned that he may be subject to the criminal
penalties of the Act. No more is required. Nash v.
United States, 229 U. S. 373, 377.
We have considered, but find it unnecessary to discuss
other contentions.
Reversed.
OPP COTTON MILLS, INC., ET AL. v. ADMINISTRATOR OF THE WAGE AND HOUR DIVISION OF
THE DEPARTMENT OF LABOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT:

No. 330. Argued December 20, 1940-Decided February 3, 1941.
1. Wage and hours provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act, as
applied to manufacturers of textile goods for interstate commerce,
held within the commerce power and consistent with the Fifth and
Tenth Amendments. United States v. Darby, ante, p. 100. P. 142.
2. In the exertion of its legislative powers, Congress may provide
that administrative findings of fact, made in conformity to previously adopted legislative standards and definitions of Congressional
policy, shall be prerequisite to the operation of its statutory command. P. 144.
The adoption of the declared policy by Congress and its definition
of the circumstances in which its command is to be effective, constitute the performance, in the constitutional sense, of the legislative function.
3. Where the standards set tip for the guidance of the' administrative
agency, the procedure which it is directed to follow, and the record
of its action which is required by the statute to be kept, or which
is in fact preserved, are such that Congress, the courts and the public can ascertain whether the agency has conformed to the standards which Congress has prescribed, there is no failure of performance of the legislative function. P. 144.
4. The Fair Labor Standards Act, to the extent that it authorizes
the Administrator and the industry committees appointed by him
to classify industries and fix minimum wages, is not an unconstitutional delegation of legislative power. Pp. 142, 145.

OPP COTTON MILLS v. ADMINISTRATOR.
126

127

Syllabus.

The Act declares the policy of Congress to raise the minimum
wage to the 40 cents per hour limit "as rapidly as economically
feasible without substantially curtailing employment." It directs
that wage rates shall be determined with due regard to economic
and competitive conditions and shall be such as will not substantially curtail employment in 'the industry. As prerequisites to
classification within an industry, the committee and the Administrator must determine that classification is necessary for the purpose of fixing for each class the highest minimim wage rate (not
in excess of 40 cents an hour) that will not substantially curtail
employment in such class and will not give a competitive advantage to any gioup in the industry. In making these determin:itibns, the committee and the Administrator must consider, "among
other relevant factors," competitive conditions as affected by transportation, living and production costs, and the wage scale for
comparable work established by collective bargaining labor agree,naents, and by employers who voluntarily maintain minimum wage
standards in the industry.
5. Under this Act, § 8 (a)-(d), an industry committee acts as an investigating body with duty to report its recommendations to the
Administrator. Its report is the basis of proceedings before the
Administrator under § 8 (d), which are judicial in character with
provisions for notice and full hearing. P. 147.
The issue to be determined by the Administrator upon the
hearing is whether the recommendations of the committee "are
made in accordance with law, are supported by the evidence adduced at the hearing, and, taking into consideration the same
factors as are required to be considered by the industry committee,
will carry out the purposes of this section." No wtage is fixed
which is not recommended by the committee, and not then without
appropriate hearing, findings and order by the Administrator.
6.The preliminary definition of an industry made by the Administrator when he appoints an industry committee under § 5 (a) of
the Act-distinguished from the definition to be made in the final
order fixing the wage, § 8 (f)-may be revised by him while the
investigation is pending before the committee, but the committee's
report must be based on the amended definition. P. 147.
7. In defining the textile industry as including cotton, silk, and rayon
products, the Administrator took into account the competitive
interrelationship of the fabrics included and the interchangeability
of the looms employed in producing them; and in excluding the
woolen industry he took account of its competitive relationships

128

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

312 U. S.

with the products included and the different nature of the establishments, labor forces and wage structures associated with the
two types of product. Held consistent with the provisions and
purpose of the statute. P. 149.
8. The composition of the industry committee in this case. satisfies
the requirements of § 5 (b) of the statute. P. 150.
The requirement that the administrator give "due regard" to
geographical considerations is not a requirement for a mathematical
geographical apportionment of the committee. It calls for the
exercise of discretion by the Administrator in selecting, with the
purposes of the Act in mind, a committee on which the geographically distributed interests of the industry shall be fairly
represented.
9. An industry committee engaged in investigations with a view to
recommending a minimum wage is not required by the Act to
conduct a quasi-judicial proceeding upon notice and hearing.
P. 151.
10. The demands of due process do not require a hearing at the
initial stage, or at any particular point, or at more than one
point, in an administrative proceeding so long as the requisite
hearing is held before the final order becomes effective. P. 152.
The proceedings before the Administrator as provided by § 8 (d)
satisfy the requirements of due process without further requirement, which the statute omits, of a hearing on notice before the
committee.
11. The command of § 8 (d) that the Administrator, as a prerequisite
to a wage order, find that the recommendations of the committee
"are made in accordance with law" does not extend to a review of
the evidence and hearings before the committee or an investigation
of the mental processes by which committee members reached
their conclusion to recommend the minimum wage, or extend beyond inquiry, upon evidence before the Administrator whether the
requirements of the statute and rules of the Administrator as to the
composition of the committee, the definition of the industry, and
the actions required to be taken by the committee have been
observed. P. 153.
12. Such being the function of the committee it is immaterial that
in this case substitutes were appointed for two of its members in
the course of its deliberations, it not appearing that they did not
consider the evidence taken and- the proceedings had before their
appointments. P. 153.

OPP COTTON MILLS v. ADMINISTRATOR.
126

129

Argument for Petitioners.

13. A party who appeared before the Administrator, was heard, introduced evidence, and was given opportunity to introduce more,
has no ground to complain that notice of the hearing, given 40
days previously and in conformity with the statute, was inadequate. P. 153.
14. Persons interested in a wage hearing before the Administrator
are sufficiently informed of the matter in issue by the report and
recommendation of the industry committee, upon which the hearing is based. P. 153.
15. There was no error or want of due process in permitting the
industry committee to appear before the Administrator by counsel
and to offer evidence in support of its recommendations, or in permitting members of the staff of the Wage and Hour Division to
give testimony. P. 154.
16. The evidence upon which the Administrator's findings may be
based is not limited to such as would be competent in a court of
law. It includes relevant statistical and economic data in published
reports of investigations by governmental agencies. P. 154.
In a court of law if evidence of this character is admitted without
objection it must be accorded "its natural probative effect as if it
were in law admissible."
111 F. 2d 23, affirmed.

CERTIoRI, 311 U. S. 631, to review a judgment sustaining an order fixing a uniform minimum wage for
the textile industry under the Fair Labor Standards Act.
The proceeding in the court below was begun, pursuant
to § 10 of the statute, by the petition of Opp Cotton
Mills, Inc., to have the order set aside, and for other
relief. Numerous other manufacturers of cotton goods
became parties by intervention.
Mr. Ben F. Cameron, with whom Mr. W. Gordon McKelvey was on the brief, for petitioners.
The wage order is void because: (1) the Industry Committee was not constituted in accordance with the requirements of the Act; (2) the definition of the textile
industry was not seasonably made in compliance with
the Act; (3) the Committee did not proceed in accord301335

-

41-

9

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Petitioners.

312 U. S.

ance with the requirements of the Constitution and of
the Act; and (4) the procedure followed by the Committee and the Administrator did not afford a full and
fair hearing as required by due process of law. Morgan
v. United States, 298 U. S. 468; 304 U. S. 1,.23; United
States v. Morgan, 307 U. S. 183; Ohio Bell Telephone
Co. v. Public Util. Comm'n, 301 U. S. 292.
The wage order is void because the Administrator's
findings that the proposed minimum will not substantially curtail employment, or give a competitive advantage to any group, are not supported by substantial evidence. Morris v. Harmer, 7 Pet. 554; Floridav. United
States, 282 U. S. 194; Panama Refining Co. v. Ryan, 293
U. S. 388; National Labor Relations Board v. Bell Oil
& Gas Co., 98 F. 2d 406; South Alabama Co. v. Commissioner, 104 F. 2d 27.
The general conclusions of the Administrator and the
establishment of a uniform minimum--without classifications or differentials-were contrary to law and not
supported by substantial evidence.
The Act is beyond the power of Congress, because
it usurps power reserved to the States by the Tenth
Amendment. Bailey v. Drexel Furniture Co., 259 U. S.
20; Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S.517; Champlin Refining Co.
v. Corporation Comm'n, 286 U. S.210; Carter v. Carter
Coal Co., 298 U. S.238; Collins v. New Hampshire, 171
U. S.30; Chassaniol v. Greenwood, 291 U. S.584; Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518, 629; Hammer
v. Dagenhart,247 U. S.251; Heisler v. Thomas Colliery,
260 U. S.245; Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1; Oliver Iron
Mining Co. v. Lord, 262 U. S. 172; Panama Refining Co.
v. Ryan, 293 U. S.388; Rickert Rice Mills v. Fontenot,
297 U. S. 110; Schechter Poultry Co. v. United States,
295 U. 5. 495; United States v. Ohio Oil Co., 234 U. S.
548; United States v. Butler, 297,UI. S.1.

OPP COTTON MILLS v. ADMINISTRATOR.
126

131

Argument for Petitioners.

The Act is not justified by the commerce clause. Bacon v. Illinois, 227 U. S. 504; Board of Trade v. Olsen,
262 U. S. 1; Coe v. Errol, supra; Crutcher v. Kentucky.,
141 U. S. 47; Carter v. Carter Coal Co., supra; Coronado
Coal Co. v. United Mine Workers, 268 U. S. 295; Dartmouth College v. Woodward, supra; Delaware, L. & W.
R. Co. v. Yarkonis, 238 U. S. 439; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9
Wheat. 1; Hammer v. Dagenhart,supra; Hoke v. United
States, 227 U. S. 308; Kidd v. Pearson, supra; Kentucky
Whip & Collar Co. v. Illinois Central R. Co., supra;
Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 321; McDermott v. Wisconsin,
228 U. S. 115; Mulford v. Smith, 307 U. S. 38; Milk
Control Board v. Eisenberg Farm Products, 306 U. S.
346;,NationalLabor Relations Board v. Jones & Laughlin
Co., 301 U. S. 1, 37; Old Dearborn Co. v. Seagram Distilling Corp., 299 U. S. 183; Schechter Poultry Co. v.
United States, supra; Second Employers' Liability Cases,
223 U. S. 1; Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495; Santa
Cruz Fruit Packing Co. v. National Labor Relations
Board, 303 U. S. 453; Sunshine Anthracite Coal Co. v.
Adkins, 310 U. S. 381; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. United
States, 234 U. S. 342; United States v. Rock Royal Co6perative, 307 U. S. 533; United Mine Workers v. Coronado
Coal Co., 259 U. S. 344; Weber v. Fried, 239 U. S. 325.
The Act unconstitutionally delegates legislative power
to the Administrator. Mulford v. Smith, supra;Panama
Refining Co. v. Ryan, supra; Schechter Poultry Co. v.
United States, supra; United States v. Rock Royal Co6perative, supra.
The Act denies to these litigants due process of law in
contravention of the Fifth Amendment. Adair v. United
States, 208 U. S. 161; Adkins v. Children'sHospital, 261
U. S. 525; Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S.
226; Coppage v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 1; Home Telephone
Co. v. Los Angeles, 227 U. S. 278; Lawton v. Steel, 152

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Respondent.

312 U. S.

U. S. 133; Louisville Bank v. Radford, 295 U. S. 555;
Morehead v. New York, 298 U. S. 587; Monongahela
Navigation Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312; Murray v.
Hoboken Co., 18 How. 272; United States v. Chicago, M.,
St. P. & P. R. Co., 282 U. S. 311; West Coast Hotel Co. v.
Parrish,300 U. S. 379; Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332.
Solicitor General Biddle, with whom Messrs. Robert L.
Stern, George A. McNulty, Warner W. Gardner, Gerard
D. Reilly, Irving J. Levy, Rufus G. Poole, and Louis Sherman were on the brief, for respondent.
Whether a subject has an impact upon many States
or is "purely internal" is a practical question to be decided on the basis of facts, not on predilections for local
or for central government. Petitioners do not deny the
facts upon which the Government relies to show the
relationship between interstate commerce and the subject
regulated; their reliance upon a theoretical standard of
distribution of powers is beside the point.
The Act contains no invalid delegation. Sunshine
Anthracite Coal Co. v. Adkins, 310 U. S. 381; Mulford v.
Smith, 307 U. S. 38; Hampton & Co. v. United States,
276 U. S. 394.
The procedure before the Industry Committee and the
Administrator was proper under the statute and the Constitution.
The Committee is not required to hold a hearing.
Nevertheless, it made a thorough investigation. The
record shows that about 130 representative persons and
organizations were invited to appear; and that about 200
persons, representing organizations of large membership,
did appear. before the Committee or its subcommittees.
Inasmuch as the testimony before the Committee is
not included in the printed record, the question whether
the Committee's report is properly supported could not
be reviewed by this Court even if the Committee were
required to hold a formal hearing.

OPP COTTON MILLS v. ADMINISTRATOR.
126

133

Opinion of the Court.

The Committee's report completely answers the argument that the Committee did not consider the factors
enumerated in the statute.
The Administrator's findings are supported by substantial evidence.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Three types of questions are presented by the petition
for certiorari in this case:
First, whether the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938,
52 Stat. 1060, is authorized by the Commerce Clause, violates the Tenth Amendment and the Due Process Clause
of the Fifth Amendment and is an unconstitutional delegation of the legislative power of Congress to the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division of the Department of Labor, appointed pursuant to § 4 (a) of the
Act.
Second, whether an order of the Administrator prescribing a minimum wage in an industry is unauthorized
by the statute and invalid because the procedure of the
Administrator and an Industry Committee appointed by
him pursuant to § 5 of the Act, which resulted in the
order, is unauthorized and violates the Fifth Amendment.
Third, whether the order of the Administrator is invalid because his findings on which the order is based
are without the support of substantial evidence. The
challenged findings are that the minimum wage established by the order will not substantially curtail employment, and that a classification within the industry is unnecessary for the purpose of fixing, for each classification
within it, the highest minimum wage which will not substantially curtail employment in such classification and
will not give any competitive advantage to any group in
the industry.

134

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion" of the Court.

312 U. S.

Petitioner, Opp Cotton Mills, Inc., an Alabama corporation subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act, alleging that it was aggrieved by an order of respondent, the
Adninistrator, brought the present proceeding in the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit pursuant to
b 10 of the Act, to review and set aside the order fixing a
uniform 321 cents per hour minimum wage for the textile industry, and for other relief. So far as now relevant
petitioners challenged the validity of the Act and the
order upon the grounds already mentioned. The Court
of Appeals sustained the order. 111 F. 2d 23. We
granted certiorari, 311 U. S. 631, on a petition raising the
same questions concerning the validity of the order, which
we deem of public importance in the administration of
the Act.
The general scope of the Act and the provisions of
§ 15 (a) (1) (2) and (5) and §§ 6 and 7, prohibiting the
manufacture for and shipment in interstate commerce of
goods produced for the commerce by employees employed
at less than the prescribed minimum wage or more than
the prescribed maximum hours without payment of the
required overtime wage, have been discussed in United
States v. Darby, ante, p. 100. It is unnecessary to repeat
that discussion here.
We are here concerned with § 5 (a), § 6 (a) (4), and
§ 8, under which the proceedings were had which resulted
in the challenged order of the Administrator. These sections read together set up an' administrative procedure
for establishing a minimum wage in particular industries
greater than the statutory minimum prescribed by § 6,
but not in excess of 40 cents an hour, such increase over
the statutory minimum to be fixed for any industry subject to the Act by the Administrator in collaboration with
an industry committee.
Section 5 provides, subsection (a), that the Administrator shall appoint ali industry committee for each in-

OPP COTTON MILLS v. ADMINISTRATOR.
126

135

Opinion of the Court.

dustry engaged in interstate commerce or in the production of goods for the commerce; that, subsection (b), the
committee shall include persons representing the public,
one of whom shall be designated as chairman, a like number representing employees in the industry, a like number
representing employers in the industry, and directs that
"In the appointment of the persons representing each
group, the Administrator shall give due regard to the
geographical regions in which the industry is carried on";
that, subsection (d), the Administrator shall submit to
the committee from time to time available data on matters referred to it, shall cause to be brought before the
committee in connection with such matters any witnesses
whom he deems material, and that the committee may
summon other witnesses or call upon the Administrator
to furnish additional information to aid it in its deliberations.
Section 6 (a) (4) provides that at any time after the
effective date of the section the minimum wage shall be
"not less than the rate (not in excess of 40 cents an hour)
prescribed in the applicable order of the Administrator
issued under section 8." Section 8 (a) prescribes the
procedure to be followed by the Administrator and industry committee in establishing the minimum wage authorized by § 6 (a) (4). It provides that with the view to
carrying out the policy of the Act "by reaching, as rapidly
as is economically feasible without substantially curtailing employment, the objective of a universal ininmum
wage of 40 cents an hour in each ind ustry" subject to the
Act, the Administrator "shall from time to time convene
the industry committee for each such industry" which
"shall... recommend the minimum rate or rates of wages
to be paid under section 6 by employers" subject to the
Act "in such industry or classifications therein."
Upon the Administrator's referring to the committee
the question of minimum wage rates in an industry, § 8

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

(b) requires it to "investigate conditions in the industry,"
authorizes it or a subcommittee to "hear such witnesses
and receive such evidence as may be necessary or appropriate to enable the committee to perform its duties and
functions" under the Act and requires the committee to
"recommend to the Administrator the highest minimum
wage rates for the industry which it determines, having
due regard to economic and competitive conditions, will
not substantially curtail employment in the industry."
Subsection (c) requires the committee for any industry to
"recommend such reasonable classifications within any
industry as it determines to be necessary for the purpose
of fixing for each classification within such industry the
highest minimum wage rate (not in excess of 40 cents an
hour) which (1) will not substantially curtail employment in such classification and (2) will not give a competitive advantage to any group in the industry, and
shall recommend for each classification in the industry
the highest minimum wage rate which the committee
determines will not substantially curtail employment in
such classification." It further directs that "no classification shall be made, and no minimum wage rate shall be
fixed, solely on a regional basis, but the industry committee and the Administrator shall consider among other
relevant factors the following:
"(1) competitive conditions as affected by transportation, living, and production costs;
"(2) The wages established for work of like or comparable character by collective labor agreements negotiated
between employers and employees by representatives of
their own choosing; and
"(3) the wages paid for work of like or comparable
character by employers who voluntarily maintain minimum-wage standards in the industry."
By § 8 (d) after the industry committee files its report
with the Administrator he, "after due notice to inter-

OPP COTTON MILLS v. ADMINISTRATOR.
126

137

Opinion of the Court.

ested persons, and giving them an opportunity to be
heard, shall by order approve and carry into effect the
recommendations contained in such report, if he finds that
the recommendations are made in accordance with law,
are supported by the evidence adduced at the hearing,
and, taking into consideration the same factors as are required to be considered by the industry committee, will
carry out the purposes of this section." Otherwise the
Administrator is required to disapprove the recommendations of the committee and again refer the matter to
the committee or to another committee for the industry
which he may appoint for thai purpose. Subsection (f)
provides among other things that the wage orders of the
Administrator "shall define the industries and classifications therein to which they are to apply" and subsection
(g) provides that "due notice of any hearing provided for
in the section shall be given by publication in the Federal Register and by such other means as the administrator deems reasonably calculated to give general notice
to interested persons."
As appears from his findings in support of the order,
the Administrator, on September 13, 1938, appointed Industry Committee No. 1 for the textile industry, that industry being so defined by the order of appointment as
to include the manufacture of cotton, silk, rayon and
other products. Seven persons representing the public,
seven representing employers in the industry, and seven
representing employees were appointed to the Committee. Upon request of the Administrator at the Committee's first meeting in October, 1938, subcommittees were
appointed for the purpose of considering precisely where
the line should be drawn between the textile and some
related industries not included in the definition adopted.
Before the Committee concluded its deliberations on the
recommended wage order the Administrator modified the
definition in certain respects not now material.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

At a meeting in December, 1938, the Committee heard
witnesses and received briefs and memoranda from numerous interested parties. Statistical and economic studies by the Bureau of Labor Statistics in the Economic
Section of the Wage and Hour Division had been previously submitted. The Committee then designated another subcommittee to gather additional information and
hear such testimony as it deemed necessary to enable the
Committee to arrive at a wage recommendation. This
subcommittee obtained further economic data and heard
additional witnesses including representatives of the
American Association of Cotton Manufacturers of which
petitioner is a member.
On March 21, 1939, after extended discussion and deliberation the Committee, by a vote of thirteen to six,
adopted a resolution which fixed tentatively a minimum
wage of 321/ cents an hour amounting to $13 per fortyhour week or $676 for 52 weeks, as the rate to be recommended to the Administrator. At this meeting the Committee rejected proposals to establish classifications in the
industry and wage differentials among the classes. A
subcommittee was appointed to draft a report, and on
May 22nd and 23rd, after the Administrator had again
modified the definition of the industry, the Committee
again approved by the same vote as before the 321/2 cents
minimum wage. The report was accepted and signed,
the minority filing two reports in opposition to the recommendatioiL The report detailed the proceedings of the
Committee, analyzed the evidence and data upon which
the Committee relied in making its recommendation, gave
special consideration to the question whether the wage
fixed would curtail employment in the industry generally
and in the southern cotton mills in particular, and to the
problem of classification. It concluded that "no reasonably efficient enterprise in the textile industry need fear
the result of the modest wage standard recommended for

OPP COTTON MILLS v. ADMINISTRATOR.
126

139

Opinion of the Court.

the industry," and that the data before it "did not warrant any regional" or other "classification."
On May 27th the Administrator gave notice in the Federal Register which was also issued to the press and published in many newspapers, of a public hearing on the
recommendations of the Committee. At the hearing
which commenced on June 1, 1939, and Was concluded
on July 11th, more than 135 witnesses were heard, over
3,300 pages of testimony were taken and eight volumes
of exhibits were submitted; oral arguments were heard
by the Administrator on July 25th and written briefs were
received until August 22, 1939. On September 29, 1939,
the Administrator made his findings and order carrying
into effect the recommendations of the Committee, effective October 24, 1939, the date on which pursuant to
§ 6 (a) (2) a minimum wage of 30 cents per hour for all
employees subject to the Act became effective.
The industry, as defined by the order, includes broadly
the manufacture of yarns and fabrics of cotton and competing material such as rayon and silk, and of those finished products such as sheets, towels and napkins which
are normally manufactured in the fabric weaving mills.
The Administrator found that the basic considerations
in determining which manufacturing processes were to
be included within the definition were competitive interrelationships, convertibility of looms and the operations
normally carried on by textile mills.
Although the Adminstrator was of opinion that the
question of the composition of the Industry Committee
was not pioperly before him for determination, he reviewed the evidence and concluded that the members
had been chosen with due regard to the geographical regions in which the industry is carried on and that the
Committee had considered the factors set forth in § 8 of
the Act and had reached its recommendation in accordance with law.

140

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

The Administrator found that the 32 cent minimum
wage would increase the average wage bill for the textile
industry as a whole 4 per cent over the 25 cent minimum
in effect before October 24, 1939, and 2.1 per bent over
the 30 cent minimum in effect thereafter and that the
wage increases in the southern portion of the industry
would be 6.25 per cent and 2.15 per cent over the 25 and
30 cent minimum respectively. He further found that
since the average labor costs do not constitute over 36
per cent of production costs the minimum wage increase
would increase production costs slightly over one-third
of the percentages of wage increases just indicated, and
that the increase in production costs would not result in
such a rise in prices to ultimate consumers of the finished product as to decrease consumer demand.
From all this he drew the conclusion that there would
be no substantial curtailment of employment in the industry as a whole or in its southern. branch as a result
of the increased wage. In the case of small cotton mills
in the south employing only 7 per cent of the southern
cotton textile workers (5 per cent of all in the entire
cotton industry), paying the lowest wages, he concluded
that the new minimum rate as contrasted with the 30
cent statutory rate would raise manufacturing costs more
than the. 1.94 per cent average, and for these mills the
increase would range from 2.77 per cent to 3.75 per cent.
The Adminstrator found that curtailment of employment even in the mills paying the lowest wages would be
dependent on total cost and the technological and general
efficiency of each mill, and that low wages do not necessarily coincide with a low degree of efficiency. The Administrator found generally that the small southern mills
are not necessarily marginal or the least profitable and
that, accepting the figures submitted by the group of
small mills opposing the 321/ cent minimum, the increase in labor costs for such mills would be 13.5% and

OPP COTTON MILLS v. ADMINISTRATOR.
126

141

Opinion of the Court.

only 4 per cent in total manufacturing cost over the 25
cent minimum. The increase over the 30 cent minimum
would be slightly over one-third of these percentages.
The Administrator also found that a modernization program in these mills would displace only a small number
of employees. From these and other facts detailed in the
findings, the Administrator concluded that there would
be no substantial curtailment of employment even in the
group of small mills.
The Administrator also considered the factors for determining whether classification should be made for wage
differentials within the industry. After examining numerous studies of living costs made by the Bureau of
Labor Statistics of the Department of Labor he concluded
that the cost of living in the north exceeds that in the
south by about 4.6% on the average, and that the differences in costs between cities in each region greatly exceed
the difference between the two regions as a whole. He
accordingly concluded that living costs do not vary substantially or uniformly between regions and do not affect
competitive conditions in the industry. He found that
northern mills had an advantage with respect to transportation costs in shipping to the New England states, but
southern mills had an advantage in shipping to the middle
west and south, having a great population; that many
northern finishing mills receive unfinished cloth from
southern factories and thus bear the disadvantage in
freight rates from the south to northern finishing mills
and that on an average the south has a slight transportation advantage with respect to cotton coming to the
mills there. He concluded that even with the average
freight rates in the south somewhat higher than the north,
on the whole the advantages and disadvantages in transportation costs in the two regions were approximately in
balance and that any remaining disadvantage was so small
as not to affect competitive conditions appreciably.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

After considering the proportion of obsolescent machinery in northern and southern mills, their taxes, efficiency of workers, power and construction costs and profits, the Administrator found that the southern ihills were
at least in a position of equality with northern mills in
so far as these factors affect production costs, and that
after the establishment of the 321/2 cent minimum the
prevailing minimum wages in the north would be considerably higher than in the south. He concluded that
neither wage rates in collective labor agreements nor
wages paid by employers maintaining voluntary minimum wage standards required a classification within the
industry, and finally he concluded that the Industry Committee's recommendations "are made in accordance with
law, are supported by the evidence adduced at the hearing and, taking into consideration the same factors as are
required to be considered by the Industry Committee, the
prescribed 321/2 cent wage will carry out the purposes of
§ 8 of the Act."
Constitutionalityof the Act. The objections that the
sections of the Act imposing a minimum wage and
maxi mum hours are not within the commerce power and
infringe the Tenth and Fifth Amendments were discussed and disposed of in our opinion in United States
v. Darby, supra. Since petitioners concede that they are
engaged in the manufacture of cotton goods for interstate
commerce it is unnecessary to consider these contentions
further here.
There remains the question whether the Act is an
unconstitutional delegation of the legislative power of
Congress. Petitioners urge that the standards prescribed for fixing the authorized minimum wages between 30 and 40 cents per hour are too vague and indefinite to admit of any judicial determination whether
they are within or without the standards prescribed by
Congress.

OPP COTTON MILLS v. ADMINISTRATOR.
126

143

Opinion of the Court.

It is not seriously urged that the policy and standards of the statute are subject to these criticisms independently of the provisions relating to classification.
Section 8 defines, with precision, the policy of the Act
to raise the minimum wage to the 40 cents per hour
limit "as rapidly as economically feasible without substantially curtailing employment" in each industry, and
the standards of the administrative action applicable to
the Administrator are those made applicable to the committee which it is provided "shall recommend to the
Administrator the highest minimum wage rates for the
industry which it determines, having due regard to economic and competitive conditions, will not substantially
curtail employment in the industry." But it is said
that application of these standards in an industry is
made contingent upon the determination whether the
industry is to be classified and if so, whether it is to be
subject to particular wage differentials, and that these
determinations in turn depend upon factors so inadequately defined as to afford no standard of administrative action.
Committee and Administrator are required, as prerequisites for the classification, to determine that it will
not give a competitive advantage to any group in the industry, and that the prescribed wage. will not substantially curtail employment in each classification, and in
making these determinations the committee and Administrator must consider "among other relevant factors," competitive conditions as affected by transportation, living and production costs, and the wage scale for
comparable work established by collective bargaining
labor agreements, and by employers who voluntarily
maintain minimum wage standards in the industry.
It is urged that the statute does not prescribe the relative weight to be given to the specified factors or the
other unnamed "relevant factors." It is said that this,

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

with the further requirements that the prescribed wage
is to be fixed with "due regard to economic and competitive conditions"; that the classification if made shall
not "give a competitive advantage to any group in the
industry," and that the prescribed wage must be one fixed
"without substantially curtailing employment," leave
the function which the committee and Administrator
are to perform so vague and indefinite as to be practically without any Congressional guide or control.
The mandate of the Constitution that all legislative
powers granted "shall be vested" in Congress has never
been thought to preclude Congress from resorting to the
aid of administrative officers or boards as fact-finding
agencies whose findings, made in conformity to previously adopted legislative standards or definitions of
Congressional policy, have Jeen made prerequisite to the
operation of its statutory command. The adoption of
the declared policy by Congress and its definition of the
circumstances in which its command is to be effective,
constitute the performance, in the constitutional sense,
of the legislation function.
True, the appraisal of facts in the light of the declared
policy and in conformity to prescribed legislative standards, and the inferences to be drawn by the administrative agency from the facts, so appraised, involve the
exercise of judgment within the prescribed limits. But
where, as in the present case, the standards set up for
the guidance of the administrative agency, the procedure
which it is directed to follow and the record of its action
which is required by the statute to be kept or which is
in fact preserved, are such that Congress, the courts and
the public can ascertain whether the agency has conformed to the standards which Congress has prescribed,
there is no failure of performance of the legislative
function.

OPP COTTON MILLS v. ADMINISTRATOR.

145

Opinion of the Court.

126

While fact finding may be and often is a step in the
legislative process, the Constitution does not require that
Congress should find for itself every fact upon which it
bases legislation. "It is a constitution we are expound.
ing" "intended to endure for ages to come, and, consequently, to be adapted to the various crises of human
affairs." McCulloch.v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 407, 415.
In an increasingly complex society Congress obviously
could not perform its functions if it were obliged to find
all the facts subsidiary to the basic conclusions which
support the defined legislative policy in fixing, for example, a tariff rate, a railroad rate or the rate of wages
to be applied in particular industries by a minimum wage
law. The Constitution, viewed as a continuously operative charter of government, is not to be interpreted as
demanding the impossible or the impracticable. The essentials of the legislative function are the determination
of the legislative policy and its formulation as a rule of
conduct. Those essentials are preserved when Congress
specifies the basic conclusions of fact upon ascertainment of which, from relevant data by a designated administrative agency, it ordains that its statutory command is to be effective.
The present statute satisfies those-requirements. The
basic facts to be ascertained administratively are whether
the prescribed wage as applied to an industry will substantially curtail employment, and whether to attain the
legislative end there is need for wage differentials applicable to classes in industry. The factors to be considered in arriving at these determinations, both those specified and "other relevant factors," are those which are
relevant to or have a bearing on the statutory objective.
The fact that Congress accepts the administrative judgment as to the relative weights to be given to these factors in each case when that judgment in other respects
801335°-41-10

146

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

is arrived at in the manner prescribed by the statute,
instead of attempting the impossible by prescribing their
relative weight in advance for all cases, is no more an
abandonment of the legislative function than when Congress accepts and acts legislatively upon the advice of
experts as to social or economic conditions without reexamining for itself the data upon which that advice
is based.
Measured by this requirement the present statute is no
less an exercise of the legislative function than was the
Tariff Act of 1922 authorizing the President to raise
or lower tariff duties so as to equalize the difference
which, with the aid of the Tariff Commission, he finds
between the costs of production of dutiable articles in
this and in foreign countries, his determination, to be
based upon a variety of relevant factors, some specified
and others not, for which the statute prescribed no relative weight. See Hampton & Co. v. United States, 276
U. S.394; cf. Norwegian Nitrogen Products Co. v. United
States, 288 U. S. 294; United States v. Bush & Co., 310
U. S. 371. See to the like effect under other statutes
Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Louisville & N. R.
Co., 190 U. S.273 (Interstate Commerce Act); Mulford
v. Smith, 307 U. S.38, 48, 49 (Agricultural Adjustment
Act of 1938); Sunshine Anthracite Coal Co. v. Adkins,
310 U. S. 381, 399 (Bituminous Coal Conservation Act
of 1937); Currin v. Wallace, 306 U. S. 1 (Federal Tobacco Inspection Act); United States v. Rock Royal
Co-operative, 307 U. S. 533 (Agricultural Marketing
Agreement Act).
The procedure before the Industry Committee. The
procedure before the Committee is assailed upon three
principal grounds: that the changes in definition of the
textile industry made after the appointment of the Committee rendered the order of apportionment void; that the
order defining the industry is also invalid because the
Administrator placed the woolen industry in a different

OPP COTTON MILLS v. ADMINISTRATOR.
126

147

Opinion of the Court.

industry under a different committee, rather than in
the textile industry including cotton, silk and rayon;
and that the Committee was not properly constituted
under the statute because the Administrator in selecting
it did not give "due regard to the geographical regions
in which the industry is carried on." Certain procedures
before the Committee are also challenged because they
are said to be unauthorized or contrary to the statute or
to the requirements of due process.
At the outset the distinct separation of the functions to
be performed by the committee under § 8 (a), (b), (c),
(d), from that to be performed by the Administrator
after submission of the committee's report, is to be noted.
The committee is required to be composed of equal numbers of representatives of the public, of the employers
and of the employees in the industry, selected with due
regard to geographical considerations. It acts as an investigating body with the duty to report its recommendations to the Administrator. Its report is the basis of
the proceedings before the Administrator under § 8 (d)
which are judicial in character, with provisions for notice
and full hearing. The issue to be determined by the
Administrator upon the hearing is whether the recommendations of the committee "are made in accordance
with law, are supported by the evidence adduced at the
hearing, and, taking into consideration the same factors
as are required to be considered by the industry committee, will carry out the purposes of this section." Review of the Administrator's order fixing a wage is had
under § 10 by petition to the circuit court of appeals on
the record made before the Administrator. Thus under
the provisions of § 8 (dy no wage is fixed which is not
recommended by the committee, and not then without
appropriate hearing, findings and order by the Administrator.
As already stated the Administrator's order of September 13, 1938, setting up the Industry Committee, de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

fined the industry so as to include the manufacture of a
variety of cotton, silk and rayon products, including those
made by petitioners, and throughout the proceedings their
products were so included. On recommendation of the
Committee two changes in the definition were made with
reference to the inclusion and exclusion of products
which were near the borderline of the definition before
the amendment. December 19, 1938, the order was
amended so as to exclude knitted fabrics and to include
other products such as blankets and sheets. A second
amendment ordered by the Administrator on May 22,
1939, just before the Committee adopted its report,
added to the Industry the manufacture of mixed products
containing not more than 45 percent wool.
In all this we can find no failure to comply with the
statute. Section 5 (a) directs thet "the Administrator
shall, as soon as practicable, appoint an industry committee for each industry" subject to the Act. But it
does not direct a final definition of the industry to be
made before the committee meets and such a requirement plainly would not comport with the purposes of
the Act. Section 8 (f) provides that orders of the Administrator "issued under this section" which are the final
orders fixing a wage "shall define the industries and classifications therein to which they are to apply." So far
as the definition is open to attack, it is upon the record
made before the Administrator if it there appears that
the definition does not conform to the statute, or that
the recommendations of the committee were based on a
different definition of the industry from that finally made
and s o do not support an order- for the industry as
defined.' But subject to these requirements which in'Here the Committee reconsidered its report, after the Administrator had redefined the industry on May 22, 1939, and again
adopted its recommendations which had been agreed upon.

OPP COTTON MILLS v. ADMINISTRATOR.
126

149

Opinion of the Court.

sure that recommendations of the committee and the
order of the Administrator are based on the same definition of the industry, there is no provision of the statute
preventing amendment of the definition while the matter
is pending before the committee and no purpose or policy of the Act which would be served by precluding such
amendments so long as the report of the committee is
based on the amended definition. It is to the advantage of the administration of the Act that the completeness and accuracy of the definition should be reexamined and the definition revised with the aid of the
committee at any time before its report is submitted.
We find nothing in the statute to prevent it.
Section 3 (h) defines "Industry" as meaning "industry,
or branch thereof, or group of industries." In defining
the textile industry and in fixing for it a wage which
with due regard to "economic and competitive conditions" will not substantially curtail employment in the
industry it was appropriate for the Administrator to
take into account competitive conditions. In defining
the industry the Administrator took into account the
competitive interrelationship of the fabrics included and
the interchangeability of the looms employed in producing them; and in excluding the woolen industry he
took account of its competitive relationships with the
products included and the different nature of the establishments, labor forces and wage structures associated
with the two types of product. *On the record before
us, we cannot say that in so doing he transgressed any
provision of the statute. Nor can we say that in applying these tests he departed from its purpose. The inclusion of a given product in one industry or another,
where both are' subject to the Act, principally concerns
convenience in administering the Act. For the provisions for classification with appropriate wage differentials afford ample opportunity for fixing an appropriate

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

wage with respect to any product whether it is placed
in one industry or another. There is no serious contention and we find no basis for saying that the evidence
does not support the Administrator's order with respect
to exclusion of wool from the definition of the textile
industry.
. We conclude also that the composition of the Committee satisfies the requirements of the Act. The Committee consisted of twenty-one persons, seven selected from
each of the three groups represented. Of the employer
representatives five were cotton goods manufacturers,
and four of these were from the southern states. The
rayon and silk manufacturers each had one representative. Since these branches of the industry are predominantly northern they were selected frong the north.
Three of the seven members representing the public were
from southern states, one was from Pennsylvania and
three from the middle west. Two of the representatives of labor were from the south, three from the north
and two of them from Washington, D. C. All five of the
non-southern labor members of the Committee were executive officials of or connected with labor organizations,
national in scope, which represented employees in the
south. Thus nine of the members of the Conunittee
were from the south, and the Administrator could have
concluded that five others fairly represented the south.
While only 31 per cent of the factories in the industry
are in the south, 51.5 per cent of the value of the product is produced in southern mills and 55 per cent of
the wage earners in the industry are employed by those
mills. Petitioners argue that since the south had a
mathematical preponderance in the Industry the Administrator was required by the statute to appoint a majority of each group, or at least a majority of the members
of the Committee from that region. But the requirement of the statute that the Administrator give "due

OPP COTTON MILLS v. ADMINISTRATOR.
126

151

Opinion of the Court.

regard" to geographical considerations is not a requirement for a mathematical geographical apportionment of
the committee. It calls for the exercise of discretion by
the Administrator in selecting, with the purposes of the
Act in mind, a committee on which the geographically
distributed interests of the Industry shall be fairly represented. As the record shows that the lowest wage scale
prevailed in the southern mills, the Administrator could
have concluded that a selection of a committee, a majority of whose members represented a low wage locality
would tend to defeat the purposes of the Act. The Act
was also intended to protect the interests of employers
and employees of mills in other localities which compete
with the low wage scale mills. We cannot say that the
Administrator failed to give "due regard" to geographical considerations or otherwise abused his discretion in
the selection of the Committee.
Petitioners make a great variety of criticisms of the
proceedings before the Committee, all of which rest on
the presupposition that either the statute or the demand
of due process of law requires the Committee to hold hearings upon notice to interested persons and that its hearings
be subject to review before the Administrator and finally
as a part of the proceedings before the Administrator to
judicial review on petition to the Circuit Court of Appeals, as provided by § 10.
Section 5 (c) directs that the Administrator shall "by
rules and regulations prescribe the procedure to be followed by the committee." Section 5 (d), as already
noted, provides that the Administrator shall submit data
to the committee, shall cause witnesses whom he deems
material to be brought before it, and that the committee
"may summon other witnesses" to aid in its deliberations. Section 8 (b) requires the industry committee to
"investigate" conditions in the industry. It provides
that the committee "may hear such witnesses and re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

ceive such evidence as may be necessary or appropriate"
and requires the committee to "recommend" to the Administrator the highest minimum wages "which it determines, having due regard to economic and competitive
conditions, will not substantially curtail employment in
the industry." After the report is filed with the Administrator he, upon due notice and hearing, is required
to approve or reject the recommendations.
It is clear that the sections of the statute now before us
do not require the committee to conduct a quasi-judicial
proceeding upon notice and hearing. Its function, as
already stated, is to investigate upon the basis of data
which the Administrator may submit and which the committee may procure for itself and to report its recommendation with respect to the minimum wage. Cf. Norwegian Nitrogen Co. v. United States, supra, 318. That
such is the interpretation of the statute is abundantly
supported by its legislative history. See Conference
Committee Report, H. Rept. No. 2738, 75th Cong., 3d
Sess., p. 31, and the explanation of the bill by the Chairman of the Senate Committee, 83 Cong. Rec. 9164. In
his statement he pointed out that the procedure is
modeled upon the New York Minimum Wage Act, see
Morehead v. Tipaldo, 298 U. S. 587, 619, and he emphasized that no minimum wage rate could be established
which had not been first "carefully worked out" by a
committee drawn principally from the industry itself
and that it should not then be put into effect "by administrative action which has not been found to be in
accordance with law by an independent, responsible administrative office of the Government, exercising an
independent judgment on the evidence after a legal
hearing."
The demands of due process do not require a hearing,
at the initial stage or at any particular point or at more
than one point in an administrative proceeding so long

OPP COTTON MILLS v. ADMINISTRATOR.
126

153

Opinion of the Court.

as the requisite hearing is held before the final order
becomes effective. The proceedings before the Administrator as provided by § 8 (d) satisfy the requirements of
due process without further requirement, which the
statute omits, of a hearing on notice before the Committee. York v. Texas, 137 U. S. 15; American Surety Co.
v. Baldwin, 287 U. S. 156, 168; United States V. Illinois
Central R. Co., 291 U. S. 457, 463.
The command of § 8 (d) that the Administrator, as a.
prerequisite to a wage order, find that the recommendations of the committee "are made in accordance with
law" does not extend to a review of the evidence and
hearings before the committee or an investigation of
the mental processes by which Committee members
reached their conclusion to recommend the minimum
wage, or extend beyond inquiry upon evidence before the
Administrator whether the requirements of statute and
rules of the Administrator as to the composition of the
committee, the definition of the industry, and the actions
required to be taken by the committee have been
observed.
Such being the function of the committee it is immaterial' that substitutes were appointed for two members
in the course of its deliberations, it not appearing that
they did not consider the evidence taken and the proceedings had before their appointment to the Committee.
Procedure before the Administrator. Notice of the
hearing before the Administrator was given in conformity
to the statute, and since the notice was forty days in
advance of the time when petitioner's representative
was heard and introduced evidence into the record and
a further opportunity was given to present evidence,
the contention that the notice to petitioner was inadequate or failed to meet constitutional requirements is
without merit. And as the issue for determination by
the Administrator in the light of the statutory require-

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U.-S.

ments was framed by the report and recommendation of
the Committee to the Administrator there was no failure to inform petitioner of the contentions made in behalf of the Government. Cf. Morgan v. United States,
298 U. S. 468; 304 U. S. 1. Nor can we find any error
or want of due process in permitting the Industry Committee to appear before the Administrator by counsel
and to offer evidence in support of its recommendations
or in permitting members of the staff of the Wage and
Hour Division to give testimony. See Denver Union
Stock Yard Co. v. United States, 304 U. S. 470, 477.
Support in the evidence of the Administrator'sfindings.
By § 10 review of the Administrator's order by the courts
is limited to questions of law "and findings of fact by
the Administrator when supported by substantial evidence shall be conclusive." Petitioners attack the Administrator's findings that the 32 cent minimum will
not substantially curtail employment and that classification of the industry is not required, on the ground that
they are not supported by substantial evidence.
Since the statute required these findings to be based
upon consideration of economic and competitive conditions in the industry, as affected by transportation,
living and production costs, including wages, the findings
rest, to a substantial degree, upon studies of statistical
data with respect to these factors gathered by government agencies and published by them officially. They
include publications of the Bureau of Labor Statistics,
the Interstate Commerce Commission, the Federal Trade
Commission, and the Economic Section of the Wage and
Hour Division of the Department of Labor. The most
important and the principal object of attack is Bulletin
No. 663 of the Bureau of Laber Statistics entitled "Wages
in Cotton Goods Manufacturing," which is a study of the
economic conditions -generally prevailing in the cotton
textile industry and in particular of the wages of employees. The statistics gathered, if regarded as of proba-

OPP COTTON MILLS v. ADMINISTRATOR.
126

155

Opinion of the Court.

tive force, and the inferences drawn from them by the
Administrator, taken with other evidence, amply support his findings.
The argument of petitioners is not that the record contains no evidence supporting the findings but rather that
this class of evidence must be ignored because not competent in a court of law. But it has long been settled
that the technical rules for the exclusion of evidence
applicable in jury trials do not apply to proceedings before federal administrative agencies in the absence of a
statutory requirement that such rules are to be observed.
Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Baird, 194 U. S. 25, 44;
Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Louisville & N. R. Co.,
227 U. S. 88, 93; Spiller v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co.,
253 U. S. 117; United States v. Abilene & Southern Ry.
Co., 265 U. S. 274, 288; John Bene & Sons v. Federal
Trade Commission, 299 F. 468, 471. We need not consider whether this class of evidence must be excluded
from proceedings in court.
Further the documents in question were -received in
evidence without objection. And even in a court of law
if evidence of this character is admitted without objection it is to be considered and must be accorded "its
natural probative effect as if it were in law admissible."
Diaz v. United States, 223 U. S. 442, 450; Rowland v.
St. Louis & San Francisco R. Co., 244 U. S. 106, 108; cf.
United States v. Los Angeles & Salt Lake R. Co., 273
U. S. 299, 312.
The reliability of the data published in the Bulletin
was supported before the Administrator by the testimony of some of his compilers. In the circumstances
we think the Bulletin and other documents in question
were evidence to be considered by the Administrator;
that the weight to be given to them and the inferences
to be drawn from them were for the Administrator and
not the courts, and that they lend substantial support
to his findings.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

312 U. S.

Further contentions that the findings, and particularly
the finding that classification in the industry is unnecessary, and the subsidiary findings as to differences in
transportation, living, and production costs, are unsupported by substantial evidence are addressed either to
the weight and dependability of the evidence supporting the findings or to the testimony of particular witnesses or conflicting evidence on which petitioners rely.
We have examined these contentions and, without further elaboration of the details of the evidence, we
conclude that the Administrator's findings are supported by substantial evidence. Any different; conclusion would require us toiubstitute our judgment of the
weight of the evidence and the inferences to be drawn
from it for that of the Administrator which the statute
forbids.
Numerous other contentions are advanced by petitioners but they are subsidiary to those which we have
already considered, or are of such slight'moment as to
call for no further discussion.

Affirmed.

PALMER ET AL., TRUSTEES, v. WEBSTER AND ATLAS NATIONAL BANK OF BOSTON, TRUSTEE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 120.

Argued January 8, 1941.-Decided February 3, 1941.

1. Trustees of a railroad in reorganization proceedings under § 77
of the Bankruptcy Act, who, after rejection of leases of other
lines, continue pursuant to § 77 (c) (6) to operate them "for the
account of the lessor," are not required by the Act of June 18, 1934,
by § 65 of the Judicial Code, or by § 77 (c) (6), to advance funds,
without security, out of the estate of the railroad for the payment
of obligations to creditors of the former lessors, which payment
is not essential to continued operation of the lines. P. 162.
2. How far cash advances to the former lessors should go; whether
the security for further advances is adequate; and whether ad-

