RYERSON v. UNITED STATES.-

405

Counsel for Parties.

RYERSON ET AL., EXECUTORS, v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 495.

Argued January 8, 1941.--Decided March 3, 1941.

1. A respondent in certiorari is entitled to sustain the judgment upon
a ground other than that adopted by the court below. P. 408.
2. In computing gift taxes under the Revenue Act of 1932, gifts
in one trust for several beneficiaries are each entitled to deduction up to $5,000, if they are not gifts of "future interests." Hel-.
vering v. Hutchings, ante, p. 393. P. 408.
3. Gifts of separate equal shares of the corpus of a trust to each of the
'two trustees in the event of their joint request that the trust be
terminated are gifts upon a contingency which may never happen
and are therefore gifts 'of "future interests" within the meaning
of § 504 (b) of the Revenue Act of 1932. United States v.
Pelzer, ante, p. 399. P. 408.
4. A joint power to two beneficiaries to terminate a trust and
thereby acquire the corpus in equal shares is not the equivalent
of ownership since the joint power is not for the joint benefit
of the donees and its exercise could only operate for the benefit
of each to the extent of one-half of the trust property and then
only in the event that both agreed to unite in its exercise, and the
use 'and enjoyment of any part of the trust fund by either will be
postponed until both join in the exercise of the power. P. 408.
5. Gifts in trust dependent upon survivorship of one or more persons at the death of' the donor, are gifts of "future interests"
within the meaning of § 504 (b) of the Revenue Act of 1932.
United States v. Pelzer, ante, p. 399. P. 409.
114 F. 2d 150, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 311 U. S. 640, to review a judgment reversing a recovery in the District Court, 28 F. Supp. 265, for
alleged overpayment of gift taxes.
Mr. William N. Haddad, with whom Mr. Walter' T.
Fisher was on the brief, for petitioners.
Solicitor General Biddle, with whom Assistant Attorney General Clark and Messrs. Sewall Key, J. Louis Mon-

406

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.Opinion of the Court.

312 U.S.

arch, and Thomas E. Harris were on the brief, for the
United States.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a companion case to Helvering v. Hutchings,
ante, p. 393, and United States v. Pelzer, ante, p..399, and
it presents the questions decided in those cases.
The sole question raised by the petition for certiorari
is whether, under § 504 (b) of the Revenue Act of 1932,
47 Stat. 169, 247, the donor of property in trust for
numerous beneficiaries is entitled to a single gift tax
exemption or exclusion to the extent of the first $5,000
of the gift, or to separate exemptions of $5,000 for each
beneficiary. The Government insists that if that question be decided against it, it is nevertheless entitled to
retain the judgment below in its favor because the gifts
to the beneficiaries were of future interests which, by
§ 504 (b), are denied the benefit of the exclusibn otherwise allowed by the section.
In 1934 petitioners' testatrix transferred two single premium insurance policies on her own life maturing at a
future date, as additions to two separate trusts, one
created in 1933, the other established in 1934 but before
the transfer. The instrument creating the first trust
provided that the trustees should pay over one-fourth of
the net income to Mary Ryerson Frost, one of the trustees, for life, with remainder over for life to her two
daughters if surviving at her death, with further remainders over to their issue per stirpes. The trust instrument directed that the remaining three-fourths of
the income should be accumulated and added to the
principal of the trust. It provided that the trust was to
terminate upon the death of- the last survivor of three
person, the first life tenant and her two daughters, and
was thento be distributed, the particular distribution be-

RYERSON v. UNITED STATES.
405

Opinion of tho Court.

ing dependent upon contingencies which are not now material. The trust instrument also contained numerous
provisions for the termination. of the trust by joint
action of the trustees, Donald McKay Frost and Mary
Ryerson Frost, who was also life tenant, or by the survivor or other of them in the case of the death or mental
incapacity of either. Other provisions were made for
the termination of the trust and distribution of the trust
property in the event of the death or mental incapacity
of both, without having exercised their power of termination.
The instrument creating the 1934 trust provided that
upon the death of the grantor, who was the insured, who
was living at the time of the transfer, the trustees should
distribute the proceeds of the insurance as follows:. If
the widow of the grantor's son survived the grantor the
income of one-third of the proceeds of the insurance policy was to be paid to the son's widow for life with remainders over to those persons who would be heirs at law
of the son had he died at the same time as the life tenant.
The remaining two-thirds of the proceeds, or all if the
son's widow did not survive the grantor, were to go to
the descendants of the grantor's son then surviving, with
gifts over in default of such descendants.
In a suit brought by petitioner to recover overpaid
gift taxes for the year 1934 the district court ruled that
in the computation of the tax the taxpayer -was entitled
to two exclusions to the extent of $5,000 each for the
gifts made to Mary Ryerson Frost and Donald McKay
Frost under the 1933 trust and to three exclusions Under
the 1934 trust, one for the son's widow and two for his
two living descendants. The Court of. Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit reversed, 114 F. 2d 150, holding that the
two trusts were the do
and that a single exclusion
was allowable for each trust. We granted certiorari,
311 U. S. 640, to resolve the conflict between the decision

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

below and that of the Court of Claims in the Pelzer case
and the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in
the Hutchings case.
For the reasons stated in our opinion in the Hutchings
case we hold that the beneficiaries of the two trusts were
the persons to whom the gifts were made and that the
gifts to them and not to the trusts, as the courts below
held, were entitled to the benefit of the exclusion allowed
by § 504 (b) provided the gifts were not of "future
interests" to which the section denies the benefit of the
exclusion.
As the Government has not sought certiorari it cannot attack the judgment below, but it is free to sustain
it upon any legal ground which will support it. LeTulle
v. Scofield, 308 U. S. 415, 421, 422. Even though the
judgment below was rested upon the erroneous ground
that the trusts were "persons" to whom the gifts were
made within the meaning of § 504 (b), the Government
may justify the judgment here on the ground that petitioners are not entitled to the exclusions claimed so far
as the gifts were of future interests.
The gifts of a separate equal share of the corpus of
the 1933 trust to each of the two trustees in the event of
their joint request that the trust be'terminated was a
gift upon a contingency which might never happen. For
the reasons stated in our opinion in the Pelzer case those
gifts were of future interests within the meaning of
§ 504 (b) and consequently were not entitled to the
benefit of the exclusion. While a present power of disposition for one's own benefit is the equivalent of ownership, see Curry v. McCanless, 307 U. S. 357, 370, et seq.,
and cases cited, here the joint power was not for the joint
benefit of the donees of the power. Its exercise could
only operate for the benefit of each to the extent of onehalf of the trust property and then only in the event that
both agreed to unite in its exercise. In any case use and

RYERSON v. UNITED STATES.
405

-409,

Opinion of the ,Court.

enjoyment of. any part of the trust fund by either was
postponed until such time as both joined in the exercise
of the power. The interests granted to the trustees
upon their termination of the trust should therefore have
been included to their full extent in the computation of
the gift tax because they were "future interests" within
the meaning of § 504 (b) and Art. XI, Treasury Regulations 79. As the petitioners have been allowed one
exclusion by the judgment below which is not attacked
here it is unnecessary to consider whether the life interest
in the income given to Mary Ryerson -Frost is a present
or future interest within the meaning of § 504 (b).
For like reasons we conclude that the gifts to the beneficiaries of the 1934 trust were of future interests and
that the petitioners are entitled to no exclusion with respect to them. The gift of income to the life tenant
was contingent upon her survivorship of the grantor at a
future date. The gifts of the principal amount of the
proceeds of the policy to descendants of the deceased son
of the grantor were in part contingent upon their survivorship of the son's widow and her survivorship of the
grantor or, if she did not survive him, then the gifts of
the entire principal were contingent upon survivorship of
the descendants at the grantor's death. Thus all those
who might become entitled to the use and enjoyment of
the trust, principal and income, were ascertainable only
upon the happening of one or more uncertain fiture
events, survivorship of one or more persons at the death
of the donor, and so they were donees of gifts of "future
interests" within the meaning of § 504 (b) and the
treasury regulations. Consequently petitioners are not
entitled to the single exclusion which the court below
allowed. But because the Government has sought no
cross-petition attacking the judgment below, it must be
Affirmed.

