DRIVERS UNION v. MEADOWMOOR CO. 287
275

Syllabus.

to the rule, but the denials only serve to make the issues
which must be resolved by evidence taken in the usual
way. They can have no other office. The witnesses who
made them must be subjected to examination ore tenus
or by deposition as are all other 'vitnesses. Not by the
pleadings and the affidavits, but by the whole of the testimony, must it be determined whether the petitioner has
carried his burden of proof and shown his right to a discharge. The Government's contention that his allegations are improbable and unbelievable cannot serve to
deny him an opportunity to support them by evidence.
On this record it is his right to be heard.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded to
the District Court for further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion.
Reversed.
MILK WAGON DRIVERS UNION OF CHICAGO,
LOCAL 753, ET AL. V. MEADOWMOOR DAIRIES,
INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 1. Argued December 13, 16, 1940.-Decided February 10, 1941.
1. A State is at liberty under the Fourteenth Amendment to use
injunctive powers vested in its courts for the prevention of violence by labor unions in industrial disputes. P. 292..
2. And where the controversy is attended by peaceful picketing
and by acts of violence, and the violence has been such that continuation of the picketing will operate coercively by exciting fear
that violence will be resumed, an injunction by a state court forbidding the picketing as well as the violence does not infringe the
Fourteenth Amendment. P. 294.
3. The master in the state court found "intimidation of the customers .. .by the commission of the acts of violence," and the
supreme court of the State justified its injunction against picketing because picketing, "in connection with or following a series

288-

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Petitioners.

312 U. S.

of assaults or destruction of property, could not help but have
the effect of intimidating the persons in front of whose premises
such picketing occurred and of causing them to believe that noncompliance would possibly be followed by acts of an unlawful
character." Held that it is not for this Court to make an independent valuation of the testimony before the master or to substitute its judgment for that of the state court resolving conflicts
in the testimony or its interpretation. P. 294.
4. In determining whether acts of violence accompanying an industrial controversy were attributable to a labor union rather than
to irresponsible outsiders, a state court is not confined to the
technicalities of the laws of agency. P. 295.
5. The present decision does not bar resort to the state court for
a modification of the term .of the injunction should that court
find that the passage of time has deprived the picketing of its
coercive influence. P. 298.
6. Thornhill v. Alabama, 310 U. S. 88, and Carlson v. California,
310 U. S. 106, distinguished. P. 297.
371 Ill.
377; 21 N. E. 2d 308, affirmed.

CERTIORAR, 310 U. S. 655, to review a decree directing

a permanent injunction against acts of violence and
picketing by a labor union.
Mr. Abraham W. Brussell, with whom Messrs. Joseph

A. Padway and David A. Riskind were on the brief, for
petitioners.
pearance.

Mr. Myron D. Alexander entered an ap-

The due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
protects all persons against action by a state judiciary
that tends to deprive them of their constitutional right
to free speech. Brinkerhof Trust Co. v. Hall, 281 U. S.
673; Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339, 347; Gelpcke v.
Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175, 207; Muhlker v. New York &
Harlem Railroad Co., 197 U. S. 544, 570; Hovey v. Elliott, 167 U. S. 409, 419, 444; Murray v. Hoboken Land,
18 How. 272, 276; Powell v. Alabama, 287 U. S. 45.
Some state courts have squarely decided that an in-

junction to restrain peaceful picketing, i. e., carrying of

DRIVERS UNION v. MEADOWMOOR CO. 289
287

Argument for Petitioners.

banners in an industrial controversy, violates the constitutional guaranties. Vulcan'Detinning Co: v. St. Clair,
315 Ill. 40, 46-47; Illinois Malleable Iron Co. v. Michalek, 279 Ill. 221; Schuster v. InternationalAssn. of Machinists, 293 Ill. App. 177, 193; Lietzman v. Broadcasting
Station WCFL, 282 Ill. App. 203, 214, 218; cf. Beaton v.
Tarrant,102 Ill. App. 124, 129. See, also, Beckner, Labor
Legislation in Illinois, p. 51 (1929); Ex parte Lyons, 27
Cal. App. 70.
Other cases holding that the constitutional guaranties
of freedom of speech preclude a state court from enjoining "publication" or "utterances" by picketing in connection with an industrial controversy involving a strike or a
boycott, are: Marx & H. Clothing Co. v. Watson, 168
Mo. 113; Ex parte Tucker, 110 Tex. 335; Truax v. Bisbee Local, 19 Ariz. 379; Re He]Iron, 79 Mo. App. 639;
Lindsay & Co. v. Montana Fed. Labor, 37 Mont. 264;
Richter Bros. v. Journeymen Tailors' Union, 24 Ohio L.
J. 189; Riggs v. Cincinnati Waiters' Alliance, 5 Ohio N.
P. 386; 8 Ohio S. & C. P. § 565.
State courts have held ordinances or statutes prohibiting peaceful picketing, in terms like the prohibitions of
the injunction in the case at bar, invalid as violative of
free speech. People v. Harris, 104 Colo. 386; Reno v.
Second Judicial Dist., 95 P. 2d 998; Denver Truck Lines
v. Perry, 101 P. 2d 436, 444. Cf., Julie Baking Co. v.
Graymard, 152 Misc. 946; 247 N. Y. S. 250, 251-252;
Rossmar v. United Kosher Butchers, 163 Misc. 331; 298
N. Y. S. 343-344; Bernstein v. Retail Cleaners, 31 Ohio
N. P. 433, 436; Individual Store Owners v. Pennsylvania
Treaty Stores, 33 Pa. D. & C. 100, 101.
The decisions of this Court interpreting and applying
the constitutional guaranties of free speech preclude a
state court from enjoining labor union members and
workmen from carrying on the public streets banners
P01335°---41-19

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Counsel for Respondent.

312 U. S.

or placards conveying to the public information concerning an industrial controversy in which they have a substantial economic interest. American Steel Foundries v.
Tri-City Council, 257 U. S. 184; Senn v. Tile Layers
Union, 301 U. S. 468; Lovell v. Griffin, 303 .U. S. 444;
Hague v. C. I. 0., 307 U. S. 496; Schneider v. State, 307
U. S. 147; Thornhill v. Alabama, 310 U. S. 88; Carlson
v. California,310 U. S. 106.
See Grosjean v. American Press Co., 297 U. S. 233;
Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697, 716.
The state court's attempted justification of the abridgment of the right of union members to speak freely and
disseminate information concerning the controversy between the plaintiff and the union is inconsistent with the
Thornhill case. Cf., Schenck v. United States, 249 U. S.
47; United States v. Carolene Products, 304 U. S. 144,
152; Schneider v. State, 308 U. S. 147, 161.
The constitutional right to free speech may not be
abridged by the state court on the ground that the carrying of the banner has been preceded by acts of violence.
American Steel Foundries v. Tri-City Council, 257 U. S.
184; Iron Molders Union v. Allis Chalmers Co., 166 F.
45; Fenske Brothers v. Upholsterers Union, 358 Ill. 239;
People v. Young, 188 Ill. App. 208, 212, 213; Henrici Co.
v. Alexander, 198 Ill. App. 568; Wise Shoe Co. v. Lowenthal, 266 N. Y. 264; Warner v. Lilly Co., 265 U. S. 526,
532; Borderland Coal Co. v. Gasway, 278 F. 56; ,Baillis
v. Fuchs, 283 N. Y. 133; May's Furs v. Bauer, 282 N. Y.
331.
Petitioners' constitutional right to free speech can not
be lost through "unlawful acts of violence" by irresponsible and unauthorized third persons. Johnson v. Zerbst,
304 U. S. 458, 464.
Messrs. Donald N. Schaffer and Roy Massena for
respondent.

DRIVERS UNION v. MEADOWMOOR CO. 291
287

Opinion of the Court.,

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The supreme court of Illinois sustained an injunction
against the Milk Wagon Drivers Union over the latter's
claim that it involved an infringement of the freedom of
speech guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment. Since
this ruling raised a question intrinsically important, as
well as affecting the scope of Thornhill v. Alabama, 310
U. S. 88, and Carlson v. California, 310 U. S. 106, we
brought the case here. 310 U. S.655.
The "vendor system" for distributing milk in Chicago
gave rise to the dispute. Under that system, which was
fully analyzed in Milk Wagon Drivers' Union v. Lake
Valley Farm Products, 311 U. S.91, milk is sold by the
dairy companies to. vendors operating their own trucks
who resell to retailers. These vendors departed from the,
working standards theretofore achieved by the Union for
its members as dairy employees. The Union, in order to
compel observance of the established -standards, took action against dairies using the vendor system. The present respondent, Meadowmoor Dairies, Inc., brought suit
against the Union and its bfficials to stop interference
with the distribution of its products. A preliminary injunction restraining all union conduct, violent and peaceful, promptly issued, and the case was referred to a master
for report. Besides peaceful picketing of the-stores handling Meadowmoor's products, the master found that
there had been violence on a considerable scale. Witnesses testified to more than fifty instances of windowsmashing; explosive bombs caused substantial injury to
the plants of Meadowmoor and another dairy using the
vendor system and to five stores; stench bombs were
dropped in five stores; three trucks of vendors were
wrecked, seriously injuring one driver, and another was
driven into a river; a store was set on fire and in large

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

measure ruined; two trucks of vendors were burned; a
storekeeper and a truck driver were severely beaten;
workers at a dairy which, like Meadowmoor, used the
vendor system were held with guns and severely beaten
about the head while being told "to join the union"; carloads of men followed vendors' trucks, threatened the
drivers, and in one instance shot at the truck and driver.
In more than a dozen of these occurrences, involving window-smashing, bombings, burnings, the wrecking of
trucks, shootings, and beatings, there was testimony to
identify the wrongdoers as union men.' In the light of
his findings, the master recommended that all picketing,
and not merely violent acts, should be enjoined. The
trial court, however, accepted the recommendations only
as to acts of violence and permitted peaceful picketing.
The reversal of this ruling by the supreme court, 371 Ill.
377; 21 N. E. 2d 308, directing a permanent injunction
as recommended by the master, is now before us.
The 'question which thus emerges is whether a state
can choose to authorize its courts to enjoin acts of picketing in themselves peaceful when they are enmeshed with
contemporaneously violent conduct which is concededly
outlawed. The Constitution is invoked to deny Illinois
the power to authorize its courts to prevent the continuance and recurrence of flagrant violence, found after an
extended litigation to have occurred under specific circumstances, by the terms of a decree familiar in such
cases. Such a decree, arising out of a particular controversy and adjusted to it, raises totally different constitutional problems from those that would be presented
by an abstract statute with an overhanging and undefined threat to free utterance. To assimilate the two is
'It would needlessly encumber the reports to quote in detail the
evidence thus summarized. The curious may turn to the record in
the case.

DRIVERS UNION v. MEADOWMOOR CO. 293
287

Opinion of the Court.

to deny to the states their historic freedom to deal with
controversies through tjie concreteness of individual litigation rather than through the abstractions of a general
law.
The starting point is Thornhill's case. That case invoked the constitutional protection of free speech on behalf of a relatively modern means for "publicizing,
without annoyance or threat of any kind, the facts of
a labor dispute." 310 U. S. 100. The whole series of
cases defining the scope of free speech under the Fourteenth Amendment are facets of the same principle in
that they all safeguard modes appropriate for assuring
the right to utterance in different situations. Peaceful
picketing is the workingman's means of communication.
It must never be forgotten, however, that the Bill of
Rights was the child of the Enlightenment. Back of the
guaraitee of free speech lay faith in the power of an
appeal to reason by all the peaceful means for gaining
access to the mind. It was in order to avert force and
explosions due to restrictions upon rational modes of
communication that the guarantee of free speech was
given a generous scope. But utterance in a context of
violence can lose its significance as an appeal to reason
and become part of an instrument of force. Such utterance was not meant to be sheltered by the Constitution.
Still it is of prime importance that no constitutional
freedom, least of all the guarantees of the Bill of Rights,
be defeated by insubstantial findings of fact screening
reality. That is why this Court has the ultimate power
to search the records in the state courts where a claim of
constitutionality is effectively made. And so the right
of free speech cannot be denied by drawing from a trivial
rough incident or a moment of animal exuberance the
conclusion that otherwise peaceful picketing has the taint
of force.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

In this case the master found "intimidation of the
customers of the plaintiff's vendors by the commission
of the acts of violence," and the supreme court justified
its decision because picketing, "in connection with or following a series of assaults or destruction of property,
could not help but have the effect of intimidating the
persons .in front of whose premises such picketing occurred and of causing them to believe that non-compliance would possibly be followed by acts of an unlawful
character." It is not for us to make an independent
valuation of the testimony before the master. We have
not only his findings but his findings authenticated by
the State of Illinois speaking through her supreme court.
We can reject such a determination only if we can say
that it is so without warrant as to be a palpable evasion
of the constitutional guarantee here invoked. The place
to resolve conflicts in the testimony and in its interpretation was in the Illinois courts and not here. To substitute our judgment for that of the state court is to transcend the limits of our authority. And to do so in the
name of the Fourteenth Amendment in a matter peculiarly touching the local policy of a state regarding violence tends to discredit the great immunities of the Bill
-of Rights. No one will doubt that Illinois can protect
its storekeepers from being coerced by fear of windowsmashings or burnings or bombings. And acts which in
isolation are peaceful may be part of a coercive thrust
whenentangled with acts of violence. The picketing in
this case was set in a background of violence. In such
a setting it could justifiably be concluded that the momentum of fear generated by past violence would survive even though future picketing might be wholly peaceful. So the supreme court of Illinois found. We cannot say that such a finding so contradicted experience as
to warrant our rejection. Nor can we say that it was
written into the Fourteenth Amendment that a state

DRIVERS UNION v. MEADOWMOOR CO. 295
287

Opinion of the Court.

through its courts cannot base protection against future
coercion on an inference of the continuing threat of past
misconduct. Cf. Ethyl Gasoline Corp. v. United States,
309 U. S. 436.:
These acts of violence are neither episodic nor isolated.
Judges need not be so innocent of the actualities of such
an industrial conflict as this record discloses as to find
in the Constitution a denial of the right of Illinois to
conclude that the use of force on such a scale was not the
conduct of a few irresponsible outsiders. The Fourteenth Amendment still leaves the state ample discretion
in dealing with manifestations of force in the settlement
of industrial conflicts. And in exercising its power a
state is not to be treated as though the technicalities of
the laws of agency were written into the Constitution.
Certainly a state is not confined by -the Constitution to
narrower limits in fashioning remedies for dealing- with
industrial disputes than the scope of discretion open to
the National Labor Relations Board. It is true of a
union as of an employer that it may be responsible for
acts which it has not expressly authorized or which.might
not be attributable to it on strict application of the rules
of respondeat superior. InternationalAssociation of Machinists v. Labor Board, 311 U. S. 72, 80; Heinz Co. v.
Labor Board, 311 U. S. 514. To deny to a state the right
to a judgment which the National Labor Relations Board
has been allowed to make in cognate situations, would
indeed be distorting the Fourteenth Amendment with
restrictions upon state power which it is not our business
to impose. A state may withdraw the injunction from
labor controversies but no less certainly the Fourteenth
Amendment does not make unconstitutional the use of
the injunction as a means of restricting violence. We
find nothing in the Fourteenth Amendment that prevents
a state if it so chooses from placing confidence in a chancellor's decree and compels it to rely exclusively on a
policeman's club-

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

We have already adverted to the generous scope that
must be given to the guarantee of free speech. Especially is this attitude to be observed where, as in labor
controversies, the feelings of even the most detached
minds may become engaged and a show of violence may
make still further demands, on calm judgment. It is
therefore relevant to remind that the power to deny what
otherwise would be lawful picketing derives from the
power-of the states to prevent future coercion. Right to
free speech in the future cannot be forfeited because of
dissociated acts of past violence. Nor may a state enjoin
peaceful picketing merely because it may provoke violence in others. Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697,
721-22; Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296. Inasmuch as the injunction was based on findings made in
1937, this decision is no bar to resort to the state coqrt
for a modification*of the terms of the injunction should
that court find that the passage of time has deprived
the picketing of its coercive influence. In the exceptional cases warranting restraint upon normally free conduct, the restraint ought to be defined by clear and
guarded language. According to the best practice, a
judge himself should draw the specific terms of such
restraint and not rely on drafts submitted by the parties.
But we do not have revisory power over state practice,
provided such practice is not used to evade constitutional guarantees. See Fox River Co. v. Railroad
Comm'n, 274 U. S. 651, 655; Long Sault Development'
Co. v. Call, 242 U. S. 272, 277. We are here concerned
with power and not with the wisdom of its, exercise. We
merely hold that in the circumstances of the record before
us the injunction authorized by the supreme court of
Illinois does not transgress its constitutional power.
That other states have chosen a different path in such
a situation indicates differences of social view in a domain
in which states are free to shape their local policy. Coin-

DRIVERS UNION v. MEADOWMOOR CO. 297
287

Opinion of the Court.

pare Busch Jewelry Co. v. United *Retail Employees'
Union, 281 N. Y. 150; 22 N. E. 2d 320, and Baillis v.
Fuchs, 283 N. Y. 133; 27 N. E. 2d 812.
To maintain the balance of our federal system, insofar
as it is committed to our care, demands at once zealous
regard for the guarantees of the Bill of Rights and due
recognition of the powers belonging to the states. Such
an adjustment requires austere judgment, and a precise
summary of the result may help to avoid misconstruction.
(1) We do not qualify the Thornhill and Carlson decisions. We reaffirm them. They involved statutes
baldly forbidding all picketing near an employer's place of
business. Entanglement with violence was expressly out
of those cases. The statutes had to be dealt with on
their face, and therefore we struck them down. Such an
unlimited ban on free communication declared as the law
of a state by a state court enjoys no greater protection
here. Cantwell v.. Connecticut, 310 U. S.296; American
Federationof Labor v; Swing, post, p. 321. But just as a
state through its legislature may deal with specific circumstances menacing the peace by an appropriately
drawn act, Thornhill v. Alabama, supra, so the law of a
state may be fitted to a concrete situation through the
authority given by the'state to its courts. This is precisely the kind of situation which' the Thornhill opinion
excluded from its scope. "We are not now concerned
with picketing en masse or otherwise conducted which
might occasion such imminent and aggravated danger
• . . as to justify a statute narrowly drawn to cover .the
precise. situation giving, rise to the danger." 310 U. S.
105.2 We would not strike down a statute which author'See also. this statement in the Carlson opinion: "The power and
duty of the State to take adequate steps to preserve the ,-p'ace and
protet the -privacy, the lives, and the property of -its iesidents
cannot be doubted." 310 U. S!113.

298

OCTOBER TERM 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

ized the courts of Iliinois to prohibit picketing when they
should find that violence had given to the picketing a
coercive effect whereby it would operate destructively as
force and intimidation. Such a situation is presented by
this record. It distorts the meaning of things to generalize the terms of an injunction derived from and directed
towards violent misconduct as though it were an abstract
prohibition of all picketing wholly unrelated to the violence involved.
(2) The exercise of the state's power which we are
sustaining is the very antithesis of a ban on all discussion
in Chicago of a matter of public importance. Of course
we would not sustain such a ban. The injunction is confined to conduct near stores dealing in respondent's milk,
and it deals with this narrow area precisely because the
coercive conduct affected it. An injunction so adjusted
to a particular situation is in accord with the settled
practice of equity, sanctioned by such guardians of civil
liberty as Mr. Justice Cardozo. Compare Nann v. Raim/st, 255 N. Y. 307; 174 N. E. 690. Such an injunction
must be read in the context of its circumstances. Nor
ought state action be held unconstitutional by interpreting the law of the state as though, to use a phrase of
Mr. Justice Holmes, one were fired with a zeal to pervert.
If an appropriate injunction were put to abnormal uses
in its enforcement, so that encroachments were made on
free discussion outside the limits of violence, as for instance discussion through newspapers or on the radio, the
doors of this Court are always open.
(3) The injunction which we sustain is "permanent"
only for the temporary period for which it may last. It
is justified only by the violence that induced it and only
so long as it counteracts a continuing intimidation. Familiar equity procedure assures opportunity for modifying or vacating an injunction when its continuance is no
longer warranted. Here again, the state courts have not

DRIVERS UNION v. MEADOWMOOR CO. 299
287

BiAcx, J., dissenting.

the last say. They must act in subordination to the duty
of this Court to enforce constitutional liberties even when
denied through spurious findings of fact in a state court.
Compare Chambers v. Florida,309 U. S. 227. Since the
union did .not urge that the coercive effect had disap-•
peared either before us or, a~;parently, before the state
court, that question is not now here.
. (4) A final word. Freedom of speech and freedom of
the press cannot be too often invoked, as basic to our
scheme of society. But these liberties will not be advanced or even maintained by denying to the states with
all their resources, including the instrumentality of their
courts, the power to deal with coercion due to extensive
violence. If the people of Illinois desire to withdraw
the use of the injunction in labor controversies, the democratic process for legislative reform is at their disposal.
On the other hand, if they choose to leave their courts
with the power which they have historically exercised,
within the circdimscribed limits which this opinion defines, and we deny them that instirument of government,
that power has been taken from them permanently. Just
because these industrial conflicts raise anxious difficulties,
it is most important for us not to intrude into the realm
of policy-making by reading our own notions into the
Constitution.
Affirmed.
MR. JUsTIcE BLACK, dissenting.
In my belief the opinion just announced gives approval
to an injunction which seriously infringes upon the constitutional rights of freedom of speech and the press.
To such a result I cannot agree.
Before detailing the reasons for my disagreement, some
preliminary observations will doubtless aid in clarifying
the subsidiary issues. The right of the Illinois courts
to enjoin violence is not denied in this case. And I agree

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

312 U. S.

that nothing in the Federal Constitution deprives them
of that right. But it is claimed that Illinois--through
its courts-has here sanctioned an injunction so sweeping in its terms as to deny to petitioners and others their
constitutional rights freely to express theii views on mat-

ters of public concern.
question we must decide.

And this is the -single federal
In their brief, petitioners state

that they "have never and do not at the present time in
any way condone or justify any violence by any member

of the defendant union. Petitioners did not object to the
issuance of an injunction restraining acts of violence.
-There is no contention made that the act of the Chancellor in granting such an injunction was erroneous. ' '

"Ethically, morally and legally," the petitioning union
disclaims and condemns the acts of violence. And the
master who conducted the hearings in the case specifically found that the union officials had instructed their
,pickets to refrain from violence.2 The record shows that
'The record shows that in a petition to determine damages, filed
even before the trial court entered its final order, the petitioners said:
"The court was informed at that time [when the original effort was
made to secure dissolution of the temporary injunction] that the defendants and each of them, were wholly in accord with the injunction
prohibiting violence of any kind. .. ." R. 265.
"That the instructions given to such persons so patrolling or
picketing' by the officers of the defendant Union have been to do
same peacefully and not to interfere with the ordinary course of
business in said stores, except to, patrol back' and forth with said
'placards." R. 230-231.
Meadowmoor had originally sought an injunction in. the federal
district court. The federal master's report, introduced in this case
as an.exhibit for Meadowmoor, states: "I further find that the
instructions given to such persons patrolling or peacefully picketing
by the officers of the defendant association have been not to speak
or carry on any conversation with any other person or persons in
front of the said premises, nor to interfere with the orderly course
of business of the said stores, except to patrol back and forth with
the said placard." R. 165.

DRIVERS UNION v. MEADOWMOOR CO. 301
287

BLACK, J., dissenting.

the officials gave these instructions (which were obeyed),
not only because they realized that resort to force and
violence would be reprehensible and indefensible, but
also because they recognized that such lawless conduct
injures a labor union far more than it helps it. Aside
from this, it cannot be doubted that attempts to persuade others by the application of physical force and
violence as a substitute for persuasion by reason and
peaceable argument is contrary to the first principles of .
our government. Nor can it be questioned that it is a
prime function of courts to provide law enforcement
means intended both to punish such illegal conduct and
to protect against it. But this great responsibility is entrusted to courts not merely to determine the guilt' or
innocence of defendants, but to do so in such manner
that those brought before them may enjoy a trial in
which all their constitutional rights are safeguardedincluding the constitutional guaranties of freedom of
speech and the press.
In determining whether the injunction does deprive
petitioners of their constitutional liberties, we cannot
and should not lose sight of the nature and importance
of the particular liberties that are at stake. And in
reaching my conclusion I view the guaranties of the
First Amendment' as the foundation upon which our
governmental structure rests and without which it could
not continue to endure as conceived and planned.' Free"Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the
freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of
grievances." It is now too well settled to require citation that by
the Fourteenth Amendment the guaranties of the First Amendment
are protected against abridgment by the states.
'Thomas Jefferson, the great strategist of the campaign to bring
about the adoption of the Bill of Rights, a campaign which he
began even before the Constitution was adopted, said as to one of

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

312 U: S.

dom. to speak and write about public questions is as important to the life of our government as is the heart to
the human body. In fact, this privilege is the heart of
our government. If that heart be weakened, the result
is debilitation; if it be stilled, the result is death.
In addition, I deem it essential to our federal system
that the states should be left wholly free to govern within
the ambit of their powers. Their deliberate governmental actions should not lightly be declared beyond
their powers. For us to shear them of power not denied
to them by the Federal Constitution would amount to
judicial usurpation. But this Court has long sinceand I think properly-committed itself to the doctrine
that a state cannot, through any agency, either wholly
remove, or partially whittle away, the vital individual
freedoms guaranteed by the First Amendment. And in
solemnly adjudicating the validity of state action touching these cherished privileges we cannot look merely
at the surface of things, for were we to do so these constitutional guaranties would become barren and sterile.
We must look beneath the surface, and must carefully
examine each step in proceedings which lead a court to
enjoin peaceful discussion. In this case, in order to determine whether or not the state has overstepped constitutional boundaries, I find it necessary to give consideration to a number of factors, including the nature of
the proceedings; the definiteness, indefiniteness and constitutional validity of the basic law upon which the injunction is said to rest; the findings and the evidence;
the definiteness, indefiniteness and scope of the language
the guaranties .of the First Amendment: "The basis of our governments being the opinion of the people, the very first object should
be to keep that right; and were it left to me to decide whether we
should have a government without newspapers, or newspapers without a government, I should not hesitate a moment to prefer the
latter."

DRIVERS UNION v. MEADOWMOOR CO. 303
287

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

of the injunction itself; and the alleged imminence of the
threatened dangers said to justify the admitted abridgment of free speech. My conclusion that the injunction
as directed by the Supreme Court of Illinois invades the
constitutional guaranties of freedom of speech and the
press rests on my belief that these propositions are correct: (1) the subjects banned from public discussion
by the injunction are matters of public concern, touching
which the Constitution guarantees the right of freedom
of expression; (2) the law of Illinois, as declared by its
Supreme Court, makes illegal the exercise of constitutionally guaranteed privileges, and is an inadequate basis
upon which to defend this abridgment of free speech;
(3) the rule upon which the injunction is supportedhere
and which this Court now declares to be the Illinois law
is not the rule. upon which the Illinois Supreme Court
relied; (4) the rule announced here as supporting, the
right of a state to abridge freedom of expression is so
general and sweeping in its implications that it opens
up broad possibilities for invasion of these constitutional
rights; (5) in any event, the injunction here approved is
too broad and sweeping in its terms to find justification
under the rule announced by the Illinois court, and even
though under other circumstances such an injunction
would be permissible under the rule now announced by
this Court, still in this case such an -injunction is supported neither by the findings nor the evidence.
First. What petitioners were enjoined from discussing
were matters of public concern "within that area of free
discussion that is guaranteed by the Constitution."
The controversy here was not a mere private quarrel
between individuals, involving their interests alone.
This injunction dealt with two conflicting methods of
milk distributionm-a matter of interest not only to Chi'Thornhill v. Alabama, 310 U. S. 88, 102.
ance v. Sanitary Grocerj Co., 303 U. S. 552.

Cf. New Negro Alli-

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
BLcK, J., dissenting.

312 U. S.

cago's 148 dairies, their employees and their hundreds of
retail outlets, but to the mass of milk consumers in the
Chicago area as well.- The older method of distribution,
by which members of the petitioning union are employed,
distributes a major part of the milk supply by door-to-door
deliveries to the ultimate consumer. The rival method
of distribution, in-which respondent engages, takes two
forms: the dairies using this method sell their milk to
"cut-rate" stores, either directly or through the medium
of so-called "vendors." The cut-rate stores sell milk at a
retail price two cents a quart less than that fixed by the
dairies employing union labor. According to the court
below, the system of cut-rate, distribution, resulting in
loss of business by the union dairies, loss of employment
by the union drivers, and loss of a thousand members by
the union itself, is at the root-of a long-standing controversy.- Not only this: the situation here is' an intimate
part of the larger problem of milk production and distribution throughout the country, and, indeed, of the still
larger problem of all sorts of cut-rate distribution.
There are thus involved trade practices which are not
confined to Chicago alone-trade practices in which there
is known to be a distinct cleavage in public. thought
throughout the nation.
Second. In essence, the Illinois Supreme Court held
that it was illegal for a labor union to publicize the fact
of its belief that a cut-rate business system was injurious
to the union and to the public, since such publicity necessarily discouraged that system's prospective purchasers.
This conclusion of the court was based on the following
reasoning: The Fourteenth Amendment and the Due
Process Clause' of the Illinois Constitution, considered
(in some way not made clear) in connection with the unwritten- "connon law," assure respondent -the unqualified right to do business free from all unjustifiable inter-

DRIVERS UNION v. MEADOWMOOR CO. 305
287

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

ference; publication and peaceful argument intended to
persuade respondent's customers that its methods of doing business were such that they should not buy the
dairy's products were therefore illegal interference; the
union's purpose to better working conditions of its members was no justification for its peaceful discussion of the
controversy. Neither the presence nor the absence of
violence was considered by the court to be a necessary
element in its conclusion. All this was but to say that
in this controversy peaceful criticism of the "vendor
system" was illegal because it might injure, respondent's
business by discouraging trade. But Illinois cannot,
without nullifying constitutional guaranties, make it illegal to marshal public opinion against these general
business practices. An agreement so to marshal public
opinion is protected by the Constitution, even though
called a "common law" conspiracy or a "common law"
tort. Despite invidious names, it is still nothing more
than an attempt to persuade people that they should look
with favor upon one side of a public controversy.
Third. But this Court sustains the injunction on the
ground that the Illinois Supreme Court "justified its. decision" by reference to violence, thereby indicating that
that characteristic was made an essential element of the
rule from which the injunction sprang. I do not so, read
that court's opinion, and apparently the Illinois Supreme
Court itself does not so read it. That this is true is evidenced by that court's language in a later decision where,
speaking of the present case, it said: "In that case there
was some evidence of violence, but . . . the issue of
violence was not the turning point of the decision."' I
And even if violence were unintentiohally included or
incidentally referred to in the course of formulating a
'Ellingsen v. Milk Wagon Drivers' Union, 2 Labor Cases 567, 568;
377 Ill.
76.
301335°-41-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

312 U. S.

rule touching the right of free speech, such an unintentional inclusion or incidental reference is too uncertain
a support upon which to rest a deprivation of this vital
privilege.
Fourth. There is no state statute upon which either
this Court or the Supreme Court of Illinois could have
relied in sustaining the injunction.7 Assuming that the
Supreme Court of Illinois did declare the rule which this
Court has adopted, in doing so it has not marked the
limits of the rule with that clarity which should .be a
prerequisite to an abridgment of free speech. Nor do
I believe that this Court, even if it should, has supplied
that essential definiteness. What we are here dealing
with is an injunction, and not a "statute narrowly
drawn" to cover a situation threatening "imminent and
aggravated danger." 8 Speaking of a similar abridgment
of constitutional rights where there was no guiding legislative act, we said in Cantwellv. Connecticut: "Violation
of an Act- exhibiting such a legislative judgment and
narrowly drawn to prevent the supposed evil, would pose
a question diffefing from that we must here answer.
Such a declaration of the state's policy would weigh heavily in any challenge of the law as infringing constitutional
limitations. Here, however, the judgment is based on a
common law concept of the most general and undefined
nature. . . . Here we have a situation analogous to a
conviction under a statute sweeping in a great variety
'Illinois has an anti-injunction statute relating to matters involving labor disputes (Ill. Rev. Stat. 1939, chap. 48, § 2 (a)). The
Supreme Court said that this statute was modeled on the federal
Clayton Act (38 Stat. 738, 29 U. S. C. § 52). But the court held
that the facts here did not constitute the type of "labor dispute"
to which the act applied. 371 Ill. at 383-386; 21 N. E. 2d 308. Cf.
Milk Wagon Drivers' Union v. Lake Valley Farm Products, 311
.U.S.91.
' Thornhill v.Alabama, 310 U. S.88, 105.

DRIVERS UNION v. MEADOWMOOR CO. 307
287

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

of conduct under a general and indefinite characterization, and leaving to the executive and judicial -branches
too wide a discretion in its application." ' In the present
case, the prohibition against the dissemination of information through peaceful picketing was but one of the
many restraints imposed by the sweeping injunction. As
to this one single element of the prohibitions a number
of statements appear in the rule now formulated. On
the one hand it is said that "dissociated acts of past
violence" are not enough to forfeit the right of free
speech. On the other hand a "background of violence"
appears to be sufficient. Nor are any more definite
standards or guides to be found in such clauses as "context of violence"; "entanglement with violence"; "coercive effect"; "taint of force"; and "coercive thrust." It
is my apprehension that a rule embodying such broad
generalizations opens up new possibilities for invasion of
the rights guaranteed by the First Amendment.
Fifth. In my opinion the sweeping injunction here
approved is justified by neither of the rules, and is not
supported by the record.
For our purposes, in order to reach a proper conclusion as to just what is the sweep of the injunction, we
must necessarily turn to the complaint, the answer, the
evidence, the findings, and the decision and judgment
of the Illinois courts. And whether the injunction will
restrain the exercise of constitutional rights depends upon
the effect it will have upon the minds of those whose
freedom of expression might be abridged by its mandate.
This effect in turn depends upon the language appearing
upon the face of the injunction. By that language we
must judge it. For this injunction does not run merely
against lawyers who might give it a legalistic interpretation, but against laymen as well. Our question then
'310 U. S. 296, 307-308.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

312 U. S.

becomes: To what extent will the layman who might
wish to write about or discuss the prohibited subjects
feel that he cannot do so without subjecting himself to
the possibility of a jail sentence under a summary punishment for contempt? This injunction, like a criminal
statute, prohibits conduct under fear of punishment.
There is every reason why we should look at the injunction as we would a statute, and if upon its face it abridges
the constitutional guaranties of freedom of expression, it
should be stricken down. This is especially true because
we must deal only with the federal question presented,
which is whether petitioners have been denied their rights
under the First Amendment. The injunction, like a
statute, stands as an overhanging threat of future punishment. The law of Illinois has been declared by its
highest court in such manner as to infringe upon constitutional guaranties. And by 'this injunction that law
as actually applied abridges freedom of expression.
Looking at the injunction, we find that under pain of
future punishment by a trial judge all of the members of the petitioning union (about six thousand) are
prohibited "From interfering, hindering or otherwise discouraging or diverting, or attempting to interfere with,
hinder, discourage or divert persons desirous of or contemplating purchasing milk and cream or other products
aforesaid, including the use of said signs, banners or
placards, and walking up and down in front of said stores
as aforesaid, and further preventing the deliveries to
said stores of other articles which said stores sell through
retail; [or] From threatening in any manner to do the
foregoing acts; . . ." It surely cannot be'doubted that

an act of the Illinois legislature, couched in this sweeping
language, would be held invalid on its face."° For this
"0
Cf. Thornhill v. Alabama, 310 U. S. 88; Carlson v. California,
310 U. S. 106. With a change of but one word, a passage from the
Carlson case is directly applicable to the present case: "The sweep-

DRIVERS UNION v. MEAD)WMOOR CO. 309
287

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

language is capable of being construed to mean that norn
of those enjoined can, without subjecting themselves to
summary punishment, speak, write or publish anything
anywhere or at any time which the Illinois court-acting
without a jury in the exercise of its broad power to
punish for contempt 1 -- might conclude would result in
ing and inexact terms of the [injunction] disclose the threat to
freedom of speech inherent in its existence. It cannot be thought
to differ in any material respect from the statute held void in
Thornhill's case." 310 U. S. at 112.
And a comparison of the language of the statutes held invalid in
the Thornhill and Carlson cases with that of the injunction here
sustained is very revealing:
Thornhill
Meadowmoor injuncstatute:
tion:
Carlson statute:
"go[ing] near to "walking up and down "loiter[ing] in front of
or loiter[ing] in front of said stores . . .any place of busiabout the prem- . . .; discouraging . . . ness . . .; influencing
ises or place of persons . . . contem- . . . any person to rebusiness . . .; in- plating purchasing . . .; frain from pur'chasing
fluencing ...per- interfering, hindering, or . . .; intimidating,
sons not to trade . . . divert[ing] . . . threatening or coercing
* .
.; picket[ing] persons desirous of
. ...
any person . . .;
the w o rks or purchasing .. .; us[ing] display[ing] any banplace of business signs, banners or pla- ner. . . badge or sign
.. .
cards . . . in front of .in front of . . . any
said stores . . ."
place of business . . ."
"In Illinois, the power to punish sumnmarily for contempt is said
to be a broad "inherent" power of courts, "independent of statutory
provisions" and cf "constitutional grant." Schmidt v. Cooper, 274
Ill.
243, 250; 113 N. E. 641; People v. Peters, 305 Ill. 223, 226-227;
137 N. E. 118. And where a trial judge has ruled that conduct is or
is not contempt, the appellate court will not interfere unless the trial
judge's findings are "manifestly against the weight of the evidence"
or "clearly and palpably contrary" to it. See Oehler v. Levy, 256 Ill.
178, 183; 99 N. E. 912; Boyden v. Boyden, 162 Ill. App. 77, 83;
American Cigar Co. v. Berger, 221 Ill. App. 339, 341 (violation of
injunction against picketing); id., 221 Ill. App. 332; Schmook v.
Fane,301 Ill. App. 026; 22 N. E. 2d 450 (violation of injunction against
picketing). And where the trial court has determined the extent of.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
BLAcK, J., dissenting.

312 U. S.

discouraging people from buying milk products of the
complaining dairy. And more than that-if the language
is so construed, those enjoined can be sent to jail if
they even threaten to write, speak, or publish in such
way as to discourage prospective milk purchasers. I
find not, even slight justification for an' interpretation of
this injunction so as to confine its prohibitions to conduct
near stores dealing in respondent's milk. Neither the
language of the injunction nor that of the complaint
which sought the injunction indicates such a limitation.
Mr. Justice Cardozo approved no such injunction as
this in Nann v. Raimist, 255 N. Y. 307; 174 N. E. 690.
In fact, he ordered expunged from the injunction those
prohibitions which impaired "defendant's indubitable
right to win converts over to its fold by recourse to
peaceable persuasion, and to induce them by like methods
to renounce allegiance to its rival."
But the injunction approved here does not stop at
closing the mouths of the members of the petitioning
union. It brings within its all-embracing sweep the
spoken or written words of any other person "who may
... now

. . .

or hereafter

. . .

agree or arrange with

them. . . " So, if a newspaper should "'agree or arrange" with all or some of those here enjoined to publish
their side of the controversy, thereby necessarily tending
to "discourage" the sale of cut-rate milk, the publishers might likewise be subject to punishment for
contempt.12 Ordinarily the scope of the decree is cothe punishment to be inflicted, "courts of appellate jurisdiction will
not interfere with the exercise of such discretion except for its abuse."
.Ash-Madden-Rae Co. v. International Ladies Garment Workers'
Union, 290 Ill.
301, 306; 125 N. E. 258 (violation of injunction against
picketing).
12Cf. Cohen v. United States, 295 F. 633; Taliaferro v. United
States, 290 F. 906, 214. Cohen, "the owner, editor, and publisher"
of a newspaper, was convicted of contempt by the District Court
under an injunction restraining "strikers and' their sympathizers."

DRIVERS UNION v. MEADOWMOOR CO. 311
287

BLAcK, J., dissenting.

extensive with the allegations of the bill, its supporting
affidavits or findings of fact. In other words, the acts
enjoined are the acts alleged in the bill as the basis for
complaint."8 And the complaint on which the injunction
here rests specifically charged that the union had caused
''announcement to be made by the public press of the
City of Chicago, for the purpose of intimidating the
said storekeepers and causing them to cease purchasing
the milk sold by said plaintiffs through fear and terror
of the renewal of said conspiracy, . . ." Specific reference was made to these newspaper stories as appearing in
the Chicago Tribune and the Chicago Evening American. Proof was made of these publications. And the
injunction of the trial judge, set aside by the Supreme
Court of Illinois, specifically saved to petitioners-as in
effect did Justice Cardozo in the New York case-their
right to publicize their cause by means of "advertisement
or communication." But the injunction sustained here
is to be issued as prayed for in the bill of complaint.
And since the acts enjoined are the acts alleged in the
bill as the basis for complaint, newspaper publications
of the type referred to in the complaint are literally enjoined. Since the literal language of the injunction,
read in the light of the complaint, the supporting evidence, and the 'l.nguage of the trial judge's saving
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed. Taliaferro, a barber in no
way connected with a railroad strike, was convicted of contempt
under an injunction restraining union members and those "associated
with them." Tailaferro's offense consisted in placing in his window
a sign saying "No scabs wanted in here." The Circuit Court of
Appeals affirmed the conviction. And see Illinois Malleable Iron Co.
v. Michalek, 279 Ill. 221; 116 N. E. 714.
"Cf. Frankfurter and Greene, The Labor Injunction, p. 112, citing
Hotel & Railroad News Co. v. Clark, 243 Mass. 317; 137 N. E. 534.
And see Hitchman Coal & Coke Co. v. Mitchell, 245 U. S. 229, 262;
Illinois Malleable Iron Co. v. Michalek, 279 Il. 221, 228; 116 N. E.
714.

312

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

312 U. S.

clause--stricken down by action sustained here-thus unconstitutionally abridges the rights of freedom of speech
and press, we cannot escape our responsibility by the
simple expedient of declaring that those who might .be
sent to jail for violating the plain language of the injunction might eventually obtain relief by appeal to
this Court. To uphold vague and undefined terminologies in dragnet clauses directly and exclusively aimed at
restraining freedom of discussion upon the theory that
we might later acquit those convicted for violation of
such terminology amounts in my judgment to sanctioning a prior censorship of views. No matter how the decree might eventually be construed, its language, viewed
in the light of the whole proceedings, stands like an abstract statute with an overhanging and undefined threat
to freedom of speech and the press. All this, of course,
is true only as to those who argue on the side of the
opponents of cut-rate distribution. No such undefined
threat hangs over those who "agree or arrange" with the
advocates of the cut-rate system to encourage their
method of distribution.
Nor is it any answer to say that the injunction would
not be carried out in all its potential rigor. It was to
obtain just these potentialities that respondent, already
having secured from the trial court an injunction against
acts of violence, appealed to the Illinois Supreme Court
in order to secure an injunction broad enough to prevent
petitioners' peaceable comunication to the public of their
side of the controversy. It is too much to expect that
after complete approval of this abridgment of public
discussion by the Supreme Court *of Illinois, and after
the opinion just announced, the injunction will not be
enforced as written. So written, there could hardly be
provided a more certain method wholly and completely
to prevent all public discussion antagonistic to respondent's method of selling milk. And it is claimed by the

DRIVERS UNION v. MEADOWMOOR CO. 313
287

BLAcK, J., dissenting.

members of the petitioning union that foreclosure of opportunity for public discussion amounts to a death sentence for the method of business which gives them employment. The decision here-thus permits state control
by injunction as a substitute for competitive discussion
of a controversy of particular interest to the union, and
a matter of public concern as well.
A careful study of the entire record in this case convinces me that neither the findings nor the evidence, even
viewed in the light most favorable to respondent, showed
such imminent, clear and present danger 14 as to justify
an abridgment of the rights of freedom of speech and
the press. The picketing, which did not begin until
September, 1934, has at all times been peaceful. Usually
one picket, and never more than two, walked along the
street bearing a sign. These pickets never impeded
traffic either on the sidewalks or in the street, nor did
they disturb any passersby or customers. In fact, it is
stipulated in the record that pickets "made no threats
against any of these storekeepers, but peacefully picketed these stores. They made no attempt to stop any,
customers or to stop delivery except insofar as their situation and the signs they bore had that tendency." There
was no evidence to connect them with any kind or type
of violence at any time or place. As was found by the
master, this was in accordance with the instruction which
Was given to them by the' union officials.15 There is no
" Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296, 308; Carlson v. California, 310 U. S. 106, 113; Herndon v. Lowry, 301 U. S. 242, 258;
Schenck v. United States, 249 U. S. 47, 52. And see the concurring
opinion of Justices Holmes and Brandeis in Whitney v. California,
274 U. S. 357, 373, and the dissenting opinions of the same Justices in
Gitlow v. New York, 268 U. S. 652, 672-673; Pierce v. United States,
252 U. S. 239, 255; Schaefer v. United States, 251 U. S. 466, 482;
and Abrams v. United States, 250 U. S. 616, 627.
15 See note 2, supra.

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

312 U. S.

evidence and no finding that dissemination of information
by pickets stimulated anyone else to commit any act of
violence.
There was evidence that violence occurred--some committed by identified persons and some by unidentified
persons. A strike of farmers supplying-most of Chicago's
milk took place in the early part of January, 1934. This
strike practically stopped the inflow of milk into the city.
As a result, the union drivers were ordered not to report
for work on January 8 and 9, at the height of the strike.
It was during this period that the larger part of the
major acts of violence occurred. According to the complaint and the evidence, seven trucks were seized or damaged on the 8th and 9th of January, 1934, and one on
the 6th. These are the only trucks that were ever seized
or damaged, according to both the complaint and the evidence, and it was in connection with these seizures that
the injuries to truck drivers, the. shootings, and the
threats referred to in this Court's opinion took place.
Undoubtedly, some of the members of the union participated in this violence, as is shown by the fact that several
were arrested, criminal prosecutions were instituted, and
the cases later settled with the approval of the trial, judge.
It was eight months after this before any picketing occurred; four years afterwards before the trial judge
granted an injunction, limited to violence alone; five
years before the Supreme Court of Illinois directed a
more stringent injunction against peaceful persuasion;
and seven years before this Court sustained the injunction.
During the period of the farmers' strike in 1934, and
in the immediately succeeding months, five stores were
either bombed or burned. Three union members were
tried, convicted and sentenced to the penitentiaty for
arson in connection with one of these burnings. All of
this violence took place many months before any of the

DRIVERS UNION v. MEADOWMOOR CO. 315
287

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

picketing occurred. In addition to these 1934 acts of
violence, the evidence showed that one stench bomb was
thrown into a store in 1935, one in 1936, and two in 1937.
The identity of the persons throwing these stench bombs
was not shown.
The only other violence alleged or testified to was the
breaking of windows in cut-rate stores. Most of the
testimony as to these acts of violence was given by respondent's vendors, and was extremely indefinite. The
master made no findings as to specific acts of violence,
nor as to the dates of their occurrence. Viewing the evidence in the- light most favorable to respondent, however, all of the acts of violence as to which any testimony
was offered are gathered in the accompanying footnote. 16

:Windows
Broken

Bombed or
Burned

Trucks
Seized

Miscellaneous

1934 --------------------------------

34

8

5

4

1935------------------------------1936 -------------------------------1937----- ---------------------------

5
7
7

0
0
0

1
1
2

0
0
0

53

8

9

4

Petitioners offered evidence that three men, with no union conhec-'
tions whatsoever, confessed to and were convicted of the smashing
of windows in twenty-four cut-rate milk stores in 1934, pursuant to
an insurance racket. The master struck this evidence from the record, on respondent's motion.
In addition to the acts of violence enumerated in the foregoing
table, there was evidence of six acts of violence in 1932, among them
the bombing of Meadowmoor's plant referred to in the opinion. Petitioners offered evidence to show that at that time respondent was
gangster-dominated, and that the gangsters in question had sought
to obtain control of the union, but this evidence was excluded.
The opinion also refers to the beating of workers at a cut-rate
dairy other than Meadowmoor. The master did not mention this
incident in his findings, but it is referred to in the evidence, and from
that source it appears that those beaten and told."to join the union"

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

312 U. S.

It is on the basis of my study of the entire record that
I rest my conclusion that the forfeitur6 of the right to
free speech effected by the injunction is not warranted.
In reaching this conclusion, I fully recognize that the
union members guilty of violence were subject to punishment in accordance with the principles of due process
of law. And some of them have in fact been prosecuted
and convicted. Punishment of lawless conduct is in accord with the necessities of government and is essential
to the peace and tranquillity of society. But it is going
a long way to say that because of the acts of these few
men, six thousand other members of their union can be
denied the right to express their opinion to the extent
accomplished by the sweeping injunction here sustained. 7 Even those convicted of crime are not in this
country punished by having their freedom of expression
curtailed except under prison rules and regulations, and
then only for the duration of their sentence.
No one doubts that Illinois can protect its storekeepers
from being coerced by fear of damage to their property
from window-smashing, or burnings or bombings. And
to that end Illinois is free to use all its vast resources
and powers, nor should this Court stand in the way so
long as Illinois does not take away from its people rights
guaranteed to them by the Constitution of the United
States. When clear and present danger of riot, disorder,
were inside workeis not eligible for membership in the petitioning
union.

"Itis said that the decision here leaves the Illinois courts free to
consider modification of the injunction. But whether modification is
permissible or will in fact take place depends on Illinois law and Illinois courts. A statute can be modified or even repealed by subsequent
legislation, but if upon its face it infringes the right of free speech it
is invalid. And a court's injunction, making a law for a particular
case, can stand no higher than a legislature's act, generally applicable
to all the people.

DRIVERS UNION v. MEADOWMOOR CO. 317
287

R=E, '., dissenting.

interference with traffic upon the public streets, or other
immediatd threat to public safety, peace, or order appears',
the power of the Illinois courts to prevent or punish is
obvious.18 Furthermore, this is true because a state has
the power to adopt laws of general application to provide that the streets shall be used for the purpose for
which they primarily exist, and because the preservation
of peace and order is one of the first duties of government.
But in a series of cases we have held that local laws
ostensibly passed pursuant to this admittedly possessed
general power could not be enforced in such a way as
to amount to a prior censorship on freedom of expression,
or to abridge that freedom as to those rightfully and
lawfully on the streets.'" Illinois, like all the othef states
of the Union, is part of a national democratic system
the continued existence of which depends upon the right
of free discussion of public affairs-a right whose denial to
some leads in the direction of its eventual denial to all. I
am of opinion that the court's injunction strikes directly
at the heart of our government, and that deprivation of
these essential liberties cannot be rpconciled with: the
rights guaranteed to the people of this Nation by their
Constitution.
MR. IUsTicE DOUGLAS concurs in this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE REED, dissenting.
My conclusion is that the injunction ordered by the
Supreme Court of Illinois violates the constitutional
rights of the Milk Wagon Drivers Union of Chicago, its
officers and members. The Court reaches a contrary
Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296, 308.
"Lovell v. City of Grijfin, 303 U. S. 444; Schneider v. State, 308
U. S. 147; Thornhill v. Alabama, 310 U. S. 88; Carlson v. California,
310 U. S. 106; Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296.

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
REm, J., dissenting.

312 U. S.

result on the ground that a state may "authorize its
courts to enjoin acts of picketing in themselves peaceful
when they are enmeshed with contemporaneously violent
conduct which is concededly outlawed." Since this controversy, by virtue of the Court's opinion, centers around
picketing as a phase of free speech rather than around the
more general topic of freedom of expression, I desire to
state for myself the reasons which lead me to the conviction that the judgment should be reversed. A principle is thus involved, as well as a dispute over the scope
of a court injunction.
The record shows inexcusable acts of violence, committed at least in part by members of the union. For
such conduct, the offenders are subject to punishment
by the criminal laws of Illinois. The future conduct of
the rioters is also subject to state control by injunction,
exercised within the limits of the Constitution. The
burden and the duty of maintaining law and order fall
primarily on Illinois. Whether it chooses an injunction
against violence alone or against violence and peaceful
picketing, it must be assumed that its commands will
be obeyed. It is a postulate of reasoned thinking that
the judicial decrees will be faithfully carried out. This
question then emerges. Is the right to picket peacefully
an employer's place of business lost for any period of
future time by past acts of violence? The trial court,
in this very case, while prohibiting all violence, permitted
by its injunction the continuance of efforts by the union,
either singly or in concert, to peaceably persuade others
by picketing or other lawful means to support its contentions.
Where nothing further appears, it is agreed that peaceful picketing, since it is an exercise of freedom of speech,
may not be prohibited by injunction or by statute.
Thornhill v. Alabama, 310 U. S. 88; American Federation
of Labor v. Swing, post, p. 321. It is equally clear that

DRIVERS UNION v. MEADOWMOOR CO. 319
287

Ra,

J., disenting.

the right to picket is not absolute. It may, if actually
necessary, be limited, let us say, to two or three individuals at a time and their manner of expressing their views
may be reasonably restricted to an orderly presentation.
Thornhill v. Alabama, supra, 105. From the standpoint
of the state, industrial controversy may not overstep the
bounds of an appeal to reason and sympathy.
The Court now determines that where there is a background of violence, and inferentially, I think it must be
admitted, that where there is a reasonable fear of violence, the freedom of speech which is secured to all persons by the First and Fourteenth Amendments to the
Constitution may be withdrawn. It finds its justification in the authority of Illinois to "protect its storekeepers from being coerced by fear of window-smashings or
burnings or bombings." The momentum of fear from
past violence, it is thought, would reach over into the
peaceful picketing of the future. This goes much farther
than the injunction approved by this Court in Hague v.
C. 1. 0., 307 U. S. 496, 517, which forbade interferences
with the liberty of free speech but left to the guardians
of public peace the right "to enforce law and order by
lawful search and seizure or by arrest and production before a judicial officer." This authority of Illinois to protect its storekeepers must be exercised, however, within
the framework of the Constitution. If Illinois were not
a member of the United States, but a sovereign without
exterior political or social obligations, it would be in a
position to use whatever means it or its courts might decide would best put an end to labor disturbances. As a
state of the Union it is subject to the restraints of the
Constitution. If the fear engendered by past misconduct coerces storekeepers during peaceful picketing, the
remedy lies in the maintenance of order, not in denial of
free speech. Constitutional guarantees against oppression are of value only when needed to challenge attacks.

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
PRD, J., dissenting.

312 U. S.

The right to picket peacefully in industrial disputes
is a recognized means for the marshaling of public opinion on the side of the worker. There is no finding that
violence was planned or encouraged by the union. To
deny this right of peaceful picketing to thousands because of the violence of a few means the cutting off of
one of the constitutionally protected ways in which orderly adjustments of economic disputes are brought
about. I cannot see that the constitutional problem is
"totally different" because raised by a court decree rather
than a statute. Constitutional guarantees are just as
effective for the individual as they are for the general
public. The principle contended for by petitioners is
the right to tell their side of the story by peaceful picket:
ing despite a state court's view that such picketing may
project fear from past violence into the future. In the
last analysis we must ask ourselves whether this protection against assumed fear of future coercion flowing from
past violence is sufficient to- justify the suspension of the
constitutional guarantee of free speech. If picketing is
prohibited here, the right maintained by Thornhill v.
Alabama collapses on the first attack.
This nation relies upon public discussion as one of the
indispensable means to attain correct solutions of problems of social welfare. Curtailment of free speech limits
this open discussion. Our whole history teaches that
adjustment of social relations through reason is possible
while free speech is maintained. This Court has the
solemn duty of determining when acts of legislation or
decrees of courts infringe that right guaranteed to all
citizens. Free speech may be absolutely prohibited only
under the most pressing national emergencies. Those
emergencies must be of the kind that justify the suspension of the writ of habeas corpus or the suppression of
the right of trial by jury. Nothing approaching this
situation exists in this record and, in my judgment, the

A. F. OF L. v. SWING.
287

Argument for Respondents.

action of the Supreme Court of Illinois in prohibiting
peaceful picketing violates the constitutional rights of
these petitioners.

AMERICAN FEDERATION OF LABOR

ET AL. V.

SWING ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 56.

Argued December 13, 1940.-Decided February 10, 1941.

The constitutional guarantee of freedom of discussion is infringed
by the common law policy of a State limiting peaceful picketing
by labor unions to cases in which the controversy is between the
employer and his own employees. Pp. 323, 325.

372 Ill. 91; 22 N. E. 2d 857, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 310 U. S. 620, to review the affirmance
of a decree of the Appellate Court of Illinois, 298 Ill.
App. 63, 18 N. E. 2d 258, which directed an injunction
against picketing of a beauty shop by a labor union.
The plaintiffs were the proprietor Swing and his
employees.

Mr. Walter F. Dodd, with whom Mr. Daniel D. Carmell was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Myer N. Rosengard, with whom Mr. Samuel A.
Rinella was on the brief, for respondents.
The due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
does not confer an absolute right to strike. The Amendment does not operate as a restraint upon the inherent
power of the State to regulate and control the social and
economic destiny of its citizens. Labor disputes involve
internal, social and economic problems of the State; (except where the power to regulate or control is granted to
the Federal Government by the Constitution of the
United States, either by direct grant or as an incident to
301335'--41-21

