HELVERING v. RICHTER.
Opinion of the Court.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. RICHTER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No 516.

Argued March 3, 4, 1941.-Decided March 17, 1941.

Decided upon the authority of Hormel v. Helvering, ante, p. 552.
P. 562.
114 F. 2d 452, reversed.

311 U. S. 641, to review the affirmance of
a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals setting aside a
determination of a deficiency in income tax.
CERTIORARI,

Assistant Attorney General Clark, with whom Solicitor
General Biddle and Messrs. Sewall Key, Joseph M. Jones,
and William L. Cary were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Richard H. Wilmer, with whom Mr. Douglas L.
Hatch was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JusiCE BLACK delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Because the decision below, 114 F. 2d 452, was in conflict with that of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit in Helvering v. Hormel, 111 F. 2d 1,
affirmed, ante, p. 552,-we granted certiorari "limited to
the first question presented by the petition for the writ."
311 U. S. 641. The petition stated that question -as follows:
"The taxpayer transferred securities to a third party
in trust to pay the income to his wife. At the end of
five years, or earlier if 'the beneficiary consented, the
securities were to be transferred back to the taxpayer,
The Board of Tax Appeals held that the grantor was not
301335°---41-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

taxable with respect to the income from the trust. Two
questions are presented:
"1. Whether, by invoking the general gross income provisions of Section 22, the Commissioner had so changed
the theory of the Government's case on appeal as to
preclude the Circuit Court of Appeals from considering
the issue.
"2. Whether, on the merits, the trust income was taxable as income of the grantor under Section 22."
In view of the limited grant of certiorari, the second
question is not before us. On the first question, the
Circuit Court of Appeals held that it could iiot consider
the applicability of § 22 (a), that being an "issue now
for the first time presented by the Commissioner." The
decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, which the Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed, was handed down prior to
our decision in Helvering v. Clifford, 309 U. S. 331. Respondent urges that had he been advised with fair certainty that the government relied upon § 22 (a), he
could have introduced additional evidence directed to
that issue. For reasons set out in our decision in Hormel
v. Helvering, ante, p. 552, we are of opinion that the Circuit Court of Appeals was in error in its conclusion, but
we are also of opinion that respondent is entitled to introduce additional evidence if he so desires. The judgment
is accordingly reversed, with directions to the court below
to remand to the Board of Tax Appeals for rehearing
in the light of the Clifford case.
Reversed.

