502

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

312 U. S.

of proceedings, to be brought with reasonable promptness, in the state court in conformity with this opinion.
Compare Atlas Ins. Co. v. Southern, Inc., 306 U. S. 563,

573, and cases cited.
Reversed.

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

MISSOURI-KANSAS PIPE LINE CO. v. UNITED
STATES ET AL.*
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE.

No. 268.

Argued February 12, 13, 1941.-Decided March 3, 1941.

1. In a suit by the United States to enjoin violation of the Sherman
Antitrust Act resulting from control of the affairs of a gas pipe
line company by competitors through stock ownership, etc., a
consent decree was entered which specifically conferred certain
rights on the pipe line company and specifically provided that
upon proper application it could become a party to the suit
for the purpose of enforcing those rights, jurisdiction of the cause
and the parties being retained to give full effect to the decree.
Held:
(1) The right of the pipe line company to intervene at a subsequent stage to enforce the rights so reserved, was not dependent
upon Rule 24 (a) of the Rules of Civil Procedure, nor subject
to the District Court's discretion, but was a right established
by the consent decree. P. 505..
(2) Orders denying motions to intervene made on its behalf
were final orders appealable to this Court. P. 508.
(3) Enforcement of such rights of the pipe line company
through its intervention and active participation in the litigation
would not conflict with the public duties of the Attorney General.
P. 508.

*Together with No. 269, Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Co. v.
United States et al., also on appeal from the District Court of the
Thited States for the District of Delaware..

PIPE LINE CO. v. U. S.
502

Opinion of the Court.

(4) The company's right of intervention was not barred by the
denial of motions to intervene made earlier by one of its stockholders but made on that stockholder's own behalf and involving
different claims from those now asserted. P. 508.
2. Expedition in the enforcement of the antitrust laws, to be attained by modification of an existing decree with the approval
of the Government, can not be had at the sacrifice of private
rights which the decree itself established. P. 509.
No. 268, reversed.
No. 269, affirmed.
APPEALS

from two orders of a District Court of three

judges denying applications for leave to intervene in a
suit instituted by the Government under the Antitrust
Act. One of the applications purported to be made by
the Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Company, the other
was made on its behalf by the Missouri-Kansas Pipe Line
Company as one of its stockholders.
Messrs. Arthur G. Logan and Robert J. Bulkley, with
whom Mr. Russell Hardy was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Douglas M. Moffat, with whom Mr. Clarence A.
Southerland was on the brief, for the Columbia Gas &
Electric Corp.; and Mr. William H. Button, with whom
Messrs. Daniel 0. Hastings and James B. Alley were on
the brief, for the Columbia Oil & Gas Corp., appellees.
Attorney General Jackson and Assistant Attorney General Arnold submitted for the United States.
By special leave of Court, Mr. James H. Lee, with whom'
Mr. Paul E. Krause was on the brief, for the City of Detroit, as amicus curiae.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These proceedings grow out of a suit in equity brought
by the Attorney General in. 1935 to enforce the anti-

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

trust laws. That suit was terminated by a consent decree the terms of which specifically reserved certain rights
to the Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Company. The
issues here revolve around the scope of those provisions
of the decree.
In its bill the Government charged that Columbia
Gas & Electric Corporation and its controlled instrumentality, Columbia Oil & Gasoline Corporation, together
with individual defendants, had conspired, for the benefit of Columbia Gas, to shut out operation in the IndianaOhio-Michigan area by the Panhandle Company, which
had built a natural gas pipe line from the Texas fields to
the border of Indiana. Panhandle was an offspring of
Missouri-Kansas Pipe Line Company (hereafter called
Mokan), which, at the inception of the Government's
suit, still owned half of Panhandle's stock and held half
its junior debt. Columbia Gas, it was charged, had a
practical monopoly of natural gas in the market which
Panhandle proposed to enter, and to maintain this monopoly Columbia Gas acquired domination of Panhandle
through the acquisition by Columbia Oil of half of Panhandle's stock and junior debt and its whole senior
debt. These acts stifled, so it was claimed, Panhandle's
potential competition, rendered it insolvent, and forced
Mokan into receivership.
The consent decree sought to assure opportunities for
competition by Panhandle. Deeming the terms of the
decree inadequate for its purpose, the Government in
1939 reopened the proceedings. The defendants proposed modifications of the decree by a plan which the
district court referred to a master. After the master's
report approving the plan had been submitted but before
the district court had acted upon it, two attempts to
intervene were made on behalf of Panhandle. The de-

PIPE LINE CO. v. U. S.
502

Opinion of the Court.

nial of these two motions by the district court is the basis
of the appeals here which come to us directly under the
Expediting Act, 32 Stat. 823, as amended, 15 U. S. C.
ยง 29. In No. 268 Mokan, as a stockholder of Panhandle,
made the appropriate allegations as to the unwillingness
of those responsible for the actions of the corporation to
protect its interests, and moved to intervene on behalf
of Panhandle. In No. 269, the motion purported to be
made in Panhandle's name. In addition to the formal
parties, the City of Detroit was heard here as amicus
curiae because of its interest in the supply of gas by
Panhandle.
For clarity's sake, we shall first dispose of No. 268.
Nuierous arguments were pressed upon us challenging our jurisdiction over the appeal, or, in the alternative,
insisting on the propriety of the action of the district
court. Treating Rule 24 (a) of the Rules of Civil Procedure as a comprehensive inventory of the allowable instances for intervention, it is insisted that the present
case is not one for intervention as of right, and as an
exercise of the district court's discretion is not reviewable
here. In any event, the order of the district court is
said not to be a "final decree" within the Expediting Act,
compare United Stoaes v. California Canneries, 279 U. S*
553, 556, and on this score not reviewable. If the merits
be here open, the order was correct because there was not
"timely application," as required by Rule 24 (a). . Finally, various considerations of controlling public interest
are invoked to sustain the district court: the Attorney
General is the guardian of the public interest in enforcing
the antitrust laws, compare New York City v. New York
Telephone Co., 261 U. S. 312; injection of new issues
ought not to be allowed to delay disposition of the main
litigation, see United States v. Northern Securities Co.,
128 F. 808, 813; a decree already entered should not be

506

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

impeached by intervention, see United States v. California Canneries,supra, at 556.
All of these arguments misconceive the basis of the
right now asserted. Its foundation is the consent decree.
We are not here dealing with a conventional form of intervention, whereby an appeal is made to the court's good
sense to allow persons having a cQmmon interest with the
formal parties to enforce the common interest with their
individual emphasis. Plainly enough, the circumstances
under which interested outsiders should be allowed to
become participants in a litigation is, barring very special
circumstances, a matter for the nisi prius court. But
where the efiforcement of a public law also demands distinct safeguarding of private interests by giving them a
formal status in the decree, the power to enforce rights
thus sanctioned is not left to the public authorities nor
put in the keeping of the district court's discretion.
That is the present case. Panhandle's right to economic independence was at the heart of the controversy.
An important aspect of that independence was the extension of its Qperations to permit sales in Detroit. The
assurance of this extension was deemed so vital that it
was safeguarded by explicit provisions in the decree.
Section IV, which is -in full in the margin,' contained
'"That the defendants be and they are hereby perpetually enjoined from restraining or interfering in any manner in the freedom
of Panhandle Eastern to contract or to finance or arrange the
financing of all contracts, extensions (including the proposed new
line to Detroit, whether or not built and owned by it), repairs,
maintenance, service, or improvements necessary in its business
through or with any firm, person, or corporation with whom it may
choose to deal (and to that end any such financial or contractual
arrangements made by Panhafidle Eastern to consummate its contract dated August 31, 1935, with the Detroit City Gas Company
shall be subject to the approval of the trustee who shall receive,

PIPE LINE CO. v. U. S.
502

Opinion of 'the Court.

those provisions, and by Section V, also set out below,'
Panhandle, "upon proper application," could "become a
party" to the suit "for the limited purpose of enforcing
the rights conferred by Section IV." Mokan, on behalf
of Panhandle, claimed that Columbia Gas had made financial arrangements, which we need not detail, that
would in practice defeat the free enterprise of Panhandle.
and consider the dvisability tf, alternative methods of financing
from any responsible underwriter);
"That if such contracts be made with or financial assistance be
secured from Columbia Gas, such contracts may be made or financial assistance furnished only upon terms or conditions which do
not in any way, directly or indirectly, presently or potentially, confer upon Columbia Gas any voting rights, control or participation
in the management of Panhandle Eastern or confer any rights of
ownership in the works or properties of Panhandle Eastern except
as security for the investment; and in the event that Columbia Gas
shall, with respect to any contract or any contractual rights of any
kind whatsoever or any property held as security or used in connection with any contract, in any way prevent .the free transportation, sale, and distribution of gas by Panhandle Eastern, then upon
application to this Court or any court of competent jurisdiction
Panhandle Eastern shall have the right (1) to the immediate appointment of a trustee to hold such contract rights or property
subject to the purposes and provisions of -this decree; (2) to immediate specific performance of any and all contracts with Columbia
Gas; and (3) to immediate injunction, both temporary and final,
as well as any other appropriate remedy at law or in equity, including any remedy hereunder."
2"That
jurisdiction of this cause and of the parties hereto is retained for the purpose of giving full effect to this decree and for the
enforcement of strict compliance herewith and the punishment of
evasions hereof, and for the further purpose of making such other
and further orders and decrees or taking such other action as may
from time to time be necessary to the carrying out hereof; and that
Panhandle Eastern, upon proper application, 'r.ay become a party
hereto for the limited purpose of enforcing the rights conferred by
Section IV hereof."

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

We are not concerned with the substantiality of this
claim. The sole question before us is whether there was
standing to make the claim before the district court. We
hold there was such standing. To enforce the rights conferred by Section IV was the purpose of the motion.
Therefore, the codification of general doctrines of intervention contained in Rule 24 (a) does not touch our
problem. And since the protection afforded Panhandle
by Section IV of the decree could only be secured by the
remedy designed by Section V, to wit, active participation
in the suit, the denial of that protection is a definitive
adjudication, and so appealable. See Credits Commutation Co. v. United States, 177 U. S. 311, 316; cf. Cobbledick v. United States, 309 U. S. 323. Nor can the enforcement of this protection be deemed remotely in conflict with the public duties of the Attorney General, nor
to bring in digressive issues, nor to impeach the existing
decree. It is a vindication of the decree.
A final contention in support of the order remains.
It is based on two prior denials of motions by Mokan
to intervene. Treating Mokan's motions as made on its
own behalf on the score of its ownership of more than
forty percent of Panhandle's stock, the district court denied the motions. Appeals from these denials were dismissed by the circuit court of appeals, 108 F. 2d 614, and
we denied certiorari, 309 U. S. 687. The denials are now
urged as res judicata. But they were a rejection of
Mokan's attempt to intervene in its own behalf. In
neither instance was the relief denied deemed a mode of
enforcing Panhandle's rights under Sections IV and V
of the decree. The earlier denials involved different legal
claims from that now asserted, and, therefore, are no bar
to the present proceeding.
In No. 269 Panhandle's intervention was sought by a
different route. At a meeting of the stockholders of
Panhandle a resolution was introduced authorizing this

PIPE LINE CO. v. U. S.
502

Opinion of the Court.

proceeding. It was defeated because Columbia Oil's
holding of Panhandle stock was voted against it.
Mokan claimed that this stock was disqualified from
being voted on a matter so deeply touching the selfinterest of the Columbia companies. If this stock be
not counted, so runs the argument, Mokan's votes constituted a majority and the resolution carried. But we
need not pass on these problems of corporate control,
because, under our decision in No. 268, Panhandle's participation, derivatively asserted by Mokan, is secured.
In a memorandum filed by the Attorney General we
are advised that on January 18, 1941, the district court
filed an opinion approving the plan for modifying the
original decree subject to some suggestions by the Government. This, we are told, "is believed to satisfy the
public interest," and so the Government desires to sustain the action of the court below without further litigation. We recognize the duty of expeditious enforcement of the antitrust laws. But expedition cannot be
had at the sacrifice of rights which the original decree
itself established. We assume that the district court
will adjust the right which belongs to Panhandle with
full regard to that public interest which underlay the
original suit.
The order in No. 268 is reversed, but that in No. 269
is affirmed.
No. 268, reversed.
No. 269, affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS is of opinion that both judgments should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS and MR. JUSTICE MURPHY took
no part in the consideration or disposition of this case.

