BEAL v. MISSOURI PACIFIC R. CO.
Syllabus.

38

probable effect upon this. In both causes the end which
Congress intended to accomplish was treated as the controlling factor.
The Supreme Court of Idaho, we think, misinterpreted
and improperly applied the Securities Act. Its judgment
must be
Reversed.
MR.JUSTICE STONE concurs in the result.
MR.JUSTICE DOUGLAS took no part in

the consideration

or decision of this cause.

BEAL, COUNTY ATTORNEY OF D 0 U G L A S
COUNTY, NEBRASKA, ET AL. v. MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILROAD CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 72. Argued December 17, 1940.-Decided January 20, 1941.
1. Federal courts of equity should not interfere with the processes
of the criminal law in state courts or determine questions of criminal liability under those laws, unless in most exceptional circumstances and upon clear showing that an injunction is necessary in
order to prevent an irreparable loss. P. 50.
2. A suit by a railroad company to restrain state officers from prose.
cuting under a state "Full Train Crew" law, the plaintiff alleging
that its trains are manned in accordance with the statute when
rightly construed, but that it stands in danger of irreparable injury
from multiplicity of prosecutions and possible fines, should not
be entertained by a federal court of equity when it appears as a
fact that only a single test prosecution is in contemplation, involving only one alleged violation for the purpose of obtaining a construction of the statute by the state courts. P. 50.
3. Upon a motion for judgment on the pleadings denials and allegations of the answer which are well pleaded must be taken as true.
P. 51.
108 F. 2d 897, reversed.

46

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U.S

CERTIORARI, 311 U. S. 623, to review the affirmance of a
decree enjoining the present petitioners, state prosecuting officers, from prosecuting the railroad company's
,agents for alleged criminal violations of a state "Full
Train Crew" law.

Messrs. H. Emerson Kokjer and Edwin Vail, Assistant
Attorneys General of Nebraska, with whom Mr. Walter
R. Johnson, Attorney General, was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. G. L. DeLacy, with whom Messrs. J. A. C. Kennedy, R. E. Svoboda, and E. J. Svoboda were on the brief,
for respondent.
MR. JusncE STONE delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question is whether respondent, plaintiff in the
district court below, has established a cause of action in
equity entitling it to a decree enjoining petitioners, the
Attorney General of Nebraska and other state officers
from prosecuting respondent's agents and officers in the
state courts for criminal violations of the Nebraska Full
Train Crew Law, § 74-519 Comp. Stat. of Nebraska,
1929.
The statute makes it unlawful for any railroad in
Nebraska to operate any passenger train of more than
five cars "with a crew consisting of less than one engineer.,
one fireman, one conductor, one brakeman and one flagman." Passenger trains of five cars or less are required
to be operated with a like crew, except that only "one
brakeman or flagman" is required instead of the one
brakeman and one flagman required in the case of trains
of more than five cars. By § 74-522 officers or agents of
railroads dispatching trains in violation of the statute
are guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by fine of not
less than $100 nor more titan $1,000 for each offense, and

BEAL v. MISSOURI PACIFIC R. 00.
45

Opinion of the Court.

the railroad is made liable for any damage caused by
violations.
Respondent's bill of complaint invoked the jurisdiction of the district court on grounds of diversity of citizenship. The facts alleged, so far as now material, are
as follows. Respondent operates two trains in Nebraska,
on which it assigns for the performance of the duties of
a brakeman or flagman required by the statute, colored
employees who are fully qualified to perform and do
perform those duties, but who are designated as "brakemen-porters" and paid lower wages than are respondent's
white "brakemen."
On complaint lodged with the State Railway Commission by an officer of the Brotherhood of Railroad
Trainmen, it was alleged that respondent violated the
statute, by employing brakemen-porters to perform the
services of brakemen or flagmen. The Commission twice
dismissed the complaint, but upon rehearing it ruled that
although respondent's brakemen-porters, in addition to
the duties of brakemen, when performance of such duties
permit, render some services as porters, they competently
perform the duties to which they are assigned, namely
those of brakemen or flagmen, and that respondent's
trains, so far as the public safety is concerned, are adequately manned. The Commission declined to pass upon
the question whether their employment in the manner
alleged complied with the Full Train Crew Law of the
state and ordered that the records in the case be made
available to the state attorney general for his use, if so
advised, in prosecuting respondent for violation of any
criminal statute of the state.
The bill of complaint also alleges that employment of
white brakemen for the services now performed by respondent's brakemen-porters will compel it to pay an
increase of wages in excess of the jurisdictional amount,
and that as each train movement involves an alleged vio-

48

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U.S.

lation of the statute, numerous prosecutions for violations, which petitioners threaten, will result in imposing
on respondent the burden of many litigations in the state
criminal courts. Such prosecutions, if successful, it is
alleged, will result in the imposition of aggregate fines in
excess of $1,000,000 a year. The relief prayed is that
the threatened prosecutions be declared to be unauthorized by the statute, and that petitioners be enjoined from
interfering with the operation of respondent's trains
through criminal prosecution or otherwise.
After denial by the district court of petitioners' motion
to dismiss the bill of complaint for want of equity, petitioners answered denying among others the allegations
that respondent is threatened .with multiplicity of criminal suits or that petitioners intended to proceed with
prosecutions for violation of the statute, except as specifically stated in the answer. The answer sets up
affirmatively that the attorney general has under consideration the question of respondent's compliance with
the statute, and in the event that he should determine
that it is "necessary and proper to do so" in order to
obtain a judicial determination of the question, he would
cause a single test suit to be instituted in the state courts
for some one alleged violation of the act by respondent,
so conducted as to cause a minimum of financial expense
to respondent and without seeking to inflict financial
penalties or loss on respondent prior to a final determination of the suit in the state courts.
The district court, without trial of any issue of fact,
gave its decree for respondent, on the pleadings, for an
injunction as prayed. The Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit affirmed. 108 F. 2d 897. We granted
certiorari, 311 U. S. 623, on a petition which challenged
the equity jurisdiction of the district court to enjoin, in
the circumstances, a criminal proceeding in the state
courts, the question being of public importance since it

BEAL v. MISSOURI PACIFIC R. CO.
45

Opinion of the Court.

involves the appropriate relationship of the federal to
the state courts.
The court of appeals, construing the statute, held that
the crews on respondent's trains conform to the statutory requirements; that criminal prosecution of respondent's officers is unauthorized by the Act and unlawful.
It supported the exercise of the equity powers of the
court to restrain the prosecutions on the ground that the
attempted enforcement of the statute as construed by
petitioners would subject respondent to a multiplicity
of such prosecutions and to the risk, if petitioners'
construction of the statute should be sustained, that
fines or penalties aggregating a large amount would be
imposed.
It is a familiar rule that courts of equity do not ordinarily restrain criminal prosecutions. In re Sawyer, 124
U. S. 200, 211; Davis & Farnum Mfg. Co. v. Los Angeles,
189 U. S. 207; Hygrade Provision Co. v. Sherman, 266
U. S. 497, 500. No citizen or member of the community
is immune from prosecution, in good faith, for his alleged criminal acts. The imninence of such a prosecution even though alleged to be unauthorized and hence
unlawful is not alone ground for relief in equity which
exerts its extraordinary powers only to prevent irreparable injury to the plaintiff who seeks its aid. Terrace v.
Thompson, 263 U. S. 197, 214; Packard v. Banton, 264
U. S. 140, 143; Tyson v. Banton, 273 U. S. 418, 428;
Cline v. Frink Dairy Co., 274 U. S.445, 452.
This is especially the case where the only threatened
action is the prosecution in the state courts by state
officers of an alleged violation of state law, with the
resulting final and authoritative determination of the
disputed question whether the act complained of is lawful or unlawful. Harkrader v. Wadley, 172 U. S. 148;
Spielman Motor Co. v. Dodge, 295 U. S. 89, 95. The
federal courts are without jurisdiction to try alleged
301335°-41--4

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

criminal violations of state statutes. The state courts are
the final arbiters of their meaning and appropriate application, subject only to review by this Court if such
construction or application is appropriately challenged
on constitutional grounds. Hygrade Provision Co. v.
Sherman, supra; Fenner v. Boykin, 271 U. S. 240.
Hence interference with the processes of the criminal
law in state courts, in whose control they are lodged by
the Constitution, and the determination of questions
of criminal liability under state law by federal courts of
equity, can be justified only in most exceptional circumstances, and upon clear showing that an injunction is
necessary in order to prevent irreparable injury. Cf.
Hygrade Provision Co. v. Sherman, supra; Cline v. Frink
Dairy Co., supra; Spielman Motor Co. v. Dodge, supra.
And in the exercise of the sound discretion, which guides
the determination of courts of equity, scrupulous regard
must be had for the rightful independence of state governments and a remedy infringing that independence
which might otherwise be given should be withheld if
sought on slight or inconsequential grounds. Di Giovanni v. Camden Insurance Assn., 296 U. S. 64, 73, and
cases cited.
Here the court below found danger of irreparable
injury in the threatened multiplicity of prosecutions and
risk that the aggregate fines which might be imposed
would be very large. But whether more than one criminal prosecution is threatened was by the pleadings made
an issue of fact which the district court did not resolve.
If it had found after a hearing, as the answer alleges,
that only a single suit is contemplated, we could not say
that any such irreparable injury is threatened as would
justify staying the prosecution and withdrawing the determination of the legal question from the state courts,
whose appointed function is to decide it. Boise Artesian

BEAL v. MISSOURI PACIFIC R. CO.
45

Opinion of the Court.

Water Co. v. Boise City, 213 U. S. 276, 287; Spielman
Motor Co. v. Dodge, supra, 96.
If its decision should be favorable to respondent no
reason is shown for anticipating further prosecutions. If
it were adverse, penalties in large amount, it is true, might
be incurred, but they may well be the consequence of
violations of state law. No question is here presented
of the constitutional validity of the statute because the
penalties which it inflicts are so great as to prevent recourse to the courts for the adjudication of respondent's
rights under it. See Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123, 144;
Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Tucker, 230 U. S. 340, 349.
It does not appear that any motion was made by the
parties for judgment on the pleadings. But the record
shows that the trial court entered the decree in respondent's favor on its own motion. Upon such a motion
denials and allegations of the answer which are well
pleaded must be taken as true. So taken the decree for
respondent cannot be sustained and must be reversed.
The majority of the Court are of opinion 1 that in view
of the state of the record and certain concessions made
by counsel on the argument here any further hearing of
the issue of irreparable injury to respondent from a
threatened multiplicity of suits has been waived. The
reversal will accordingly be with instructions to the district court to dismiss the bill of complaint.
It is so ordered.
'The

CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS and

MR. JUSTICE STONE are of opinion that the case should
be remanded to the district court for further proceedings.

