496

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

312 U. S.

Admittedly there are instances among the Vermont cases
which might be logically cited to support a refusal to
submit this case.' About as many are upon the other
side. 10 We think the District Court correctly appraised
the law and facts.
We reverse the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals and affirm that of the District Court.

Reversed.

RAILROAD COMMISSION OF TEXAS ET AL. V.
PULLMAN COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 283. Argued February 4, 1941.-Decided March 3, 1941.
A railroad company, some of whose trains in Texas had each but
one Pullman sleeping Par and that in charge of a colored porter.
subject to the control of the train conductor, assailed in the federal court, as unauthorized by Texas statutes and as violative of
the Federal Constitution, a regulation by a state commission which
would require that such cars be continuously in charge of an
employee "having the rank and position of a Pullman conductor."
Pullman porters, intervening, also attacked the order, adopting
the railroad's objections but urging mainly that it discriminated
against Negroes in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment, Pullman porters being Negroes and the conductors white. Held:
'Shaw v. Moore, 104 Vt. 529; 162 A. 373; Franzoni v. Ravenna,
105 Vt. 64; 163 A. 564; Anderson v. Olson, 106 Vt. 70; 184 A. 712;
L'Ecuyer v. Farnsworth,106 Vt. 180; 170 A. 677;. Garvey v. Michaud,
108 Vt. 226; "184 A. 712; Kelley v. Anthony, 110 Vt. 490; 8 A. 2d
641.
" Dessereau v. Walker, 105 Vt. 99; 163 A. 632; Farrenv. McMahon,
110 Vt. 55; 1 A. 2d 726; Hunter v. Preston, 105 Vt. 327, 338;
166 A. 17; Hall v. Royce, 109 Vt. 99, 106; 192 A. 193; Ellison v.
Colby, 110 Vt. 431; 8 A. 2d 637; Powers v. Lackey, 109 Vt. 505;
I A. 2d 693.

RAILROAD COMM'N v. PULLMAN CO.
496 •

497

Opinion of the Court.

1. Decision of the issue of unconstitutional discrimination should
be withheld pending proceedings to be taken in the state courts to
secure a definitive construction of the state statute. P. 498.
2. The federal courts, when asked for the extraordinary remedy
of injunction, will exercise a sound discretion in the public interest
to avoid needless friction with state policies that may result
from tentative constructions of state statutes and premature adjudication on their constitutionality P. 500.
33 F. Supp. 675, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three
judges which enjoined the. enforcement of an order of
the above-named Railroad Commission.

Mr. Cecil A. Morgan for M. B. Cunningham et al.;
and Mr. Cecil C. Rotsch, Assistant Attorney General of
Texas, with whom Messrs. Gerald C. Mann, Attorney
General, Glenn R. Lewis, and Lee Shoptaw, Assistant
Attorneys General, were on the brief, for the Railroad
Commission et al., appellants.
Mr. Ireland Graves, with whom 3lfessrs. Lowell M.
Greenlaw, Herbert S. Anderson, Charles L. Black, Claude
Pollard,and F. B. Walker were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In those sections of Texas where the local passenger
traffic is slight, trains carry but one sleeping car. These
trains, unlike trains having two or more sleepers, are
without a Pullman conductor; the sleeper is in charge
of a porter who is subject to the train conductor's control. As is well known, porters on Pullmans are colored
and conductors are white. Addressing itself to this situation, the Texas Railroad Commission after due hearing
ordered that "no sleeping car shall be operated on any
line of railroad in the State of Texas . . . unless such
301335*--41-32

498

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court..

312 U. S.

cars are continuously in the charge of an employee ...
having the rank and position of Pullman conductor."
Thereupon, the Pullman Company and the railroads
affected brought this action in a federal district court to
enjoin the Commission's order. Pullman porters were
permitted to intervene as complainants, and Pullman
conductors entered the litigation in support of the order.
Three judges having been convened, Judicial Code, § 266,
as amended, 28 U. S. C. § 380, the court enjoined
enforcement of the order. From this decree, the case
came here directly. Judicial Code, § 238, as amended,
28 U. S. C. § 345.
The Pullman Company and the railroads assailed the
order as unauthorized by Texas law as well as violative
of the Equal Protection, the Due Process and the Commerce Clauses of the Constitution. The intervening
porters adopted these objections but mainly objected to
the order as a discrimination against Negroes in violation
the-Fourteenth
Amendment.
of The
complaint o!
the Pullman porters undoubtedly
tendered a substantial constitutional issue. It is more
than substantial. It touches a sensitive area of social
policy upon which the federal courts ought not to enter
unless no alternative to its adjudication is open. Such
constitutional adjudication plainly can-be avoided if a
definitive ruling on the state issue would terminate the
controversy. It is therefore our duty to turn to a consideration of questions under Texas law.
The Commission found justification for its order in a
Texas statute which we quote in the margin.' It is corn1 Vernon's Anno. Texas Civil Statutes, Article 6445:

"Power and authority are hereby conferred upon the Railroad
Commission of Texas over all railroads, and suburban, belt and
terminal railroads, and over all public wharves, docks, piers, elevators, warehouses, sheds, tracks and other property used in connection therewith in this State, and over all persons, associations

RAILROAD COMM'N v. PULLMAN CO.
.496

499

Opinion of the Court.

mon ground that if the order is within the Commission's
authority its subject matter must be included in the Commission's power to prevent "unjust discrimination .'..
and to prevent any and all other abuses" in the conduct
of railroads. Whether arrangements pertaining to the
staffs of Pullman cars are covered by the Texas concept
of "discrimination" is far from clear, What practices
of the railroads may be deemed to be "abuses" subject
to the Commission's correction is equally doubtful.
Reading the Texas statutes and the Texas decisions as
outsiders without special competence in Texas law, we
would have little confidence in our independent judgment
regarding the application of that law to the present situation.. The lower court did deny that the Texas statutes sustained the Commission's assertion of power. And
this represents the view of an able and experienced circuit judge of the circuit which includes Texas and of two
capable district judges trained in Texas law. Had we or
they no choice ir-the matter but to decide what is the
law of the state, we should hesitate long before rejecting
their forecast of Texas law. But no matter how seasoned
the judgment of the district court may be, it cannot
escape- being a forecast rather than a determination.
The last word on the meaning of Article 6445 of the
.and corporations, private or municipal, owning or operating such
railroad, wharf, dock, pier, elevator, warehouse, shed, track or other
property to fix, and it is hereby made the duty of the said Commission to adopt all necessary rates, charges and regulations, to govern and regulate such railroads, persons, associations and corporations, and to correct abuses and prevent unjust discrimination in the
rates, charges and tolls of such railroads, persons, associations and
corporations, and to fix division of rates, charges and regulations
between railroads and other utilities and common carriers -where
a division is proper and correct, and to prevent any and all other
abuses in the conduct of their business and to do and perform such
other duties and details in connection therewith as may be provided by law."

500

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

Texas Civil Statutes, and therefore the last word on the
statutory authority of the Railroad Commission in this
case, belongs neither to us nor to the district court but
to the supreme court of Texas. In this situation a federal court of equity is asked to decide an issue by making
a tentative answer which may be displAced tomorrow by
*a state adjudication. Glenn v. Field Packing Co., 290
U. S. 177; Lee v. Bickell, 292 U. S. 415. The reign of
law is hardly promoted if an unnecessary ruling of a federal court is thus supplanted by a controlling decision of
a state court. The resources of equity are equal to an
adjustment that will avoid the waste of a tentative decision as well as the friction of a premature constitutional
adjudication.
An appeal to the chancellor, as we had occasion to recall only the other day, is an appeal to the "exercise of
the sound discretion, which guides the determination of
courts of equity." Beal v. Missouri Pacific R. Co., ante,
p. 45. The history of equity jurisdiction is the history
of regard for public consequenoes in employing the extraordinary remedy of the injunction. There have been
as many and as variegated applications of this supple
principle as the situations that have brought it into play.
See, for modern instances, Beasley v. Texas & Pacific Ry.
Co., 191 U. S. 492; Harrisonvillev. Dickey Clay Co., 289
U. S. 334; United States v. Dern, 289 U. S. 352. Few
public interests have a higher claim upon the discretion
of a federal chancellor than the avoidance of needless
friction with state policies, whether the policy relates to
the enforcement of the criminal law, Fenner v. Boykin,
271 U. S. 240; Spielman Motor Co. v. Dodge, 295 U. S.
89; or the administration of a specialized scheme for
liquidating embarrassed business enterprises, Pennsylvania v. Williams, 294 U. S. 176; or the final authority of
a state court to interpret doubtful regulatory laws of
the state, Gilchrist v. Interborough Co., 279 U. S. 159;

RAILROAD COMM'N v. PULLMAN CO.
496

501

Opinion of the Court.

cf. Hawks v. Hamill, 288 U. S. 52, 61. These cases reflect a doctrine of abstention appropriate to our federal
system whereby the federal courts, "exercising a wise
discretion," restrain their authority because of "scrupulous regard for the rightful independence of the state
governments" and for the smooth working of the federal
judiciary. See Cavanaugh v. Looney, 248 U. S. 453, 457;
Di Giovanni v. Camden Ins. Assn., 296 U. S. 64, 73. This
use of equitable powers is a contribution of the courts
in furthering the harmonious relation between state and
federal authority without the need of rigorous congressional restriction of those powers. Compare 37 Stat.
1013; Judicial Code, § 24 (1), as amended, 28 U. S. C.
§ 41 (1) ; 47 Stat. 70, 29 U. S. C. §§ 101-15.
Regard for these important considerations of policy in
the administration of federal equity jurisdiction is decisive here. If there was no warrant in state law for the
Commission's assumption of authority there is an end of
the litigation; the constitutional issue does not arise.
The law of Texas appears to furnish easy and ample
means for determining the Commission's .authority.
Article 6453 of the Texas Civil Statutes gives a review
of such an order in the state courts. Or, if there are
difficulties in the way of this procedure of which we have
not been apprised, the issue of state law may be settled
by appropriate action on the part of the State to enforce
obedience to the order. Beal v. Missouri Pacific R. Co.,
supra; Article 6476, Texas Civil Statutes. In the absence of any showing that these obvious methods for
securing a definitive ruling in the state courts cannot be
pursued with full protection of the constitutional claim,
the district court should exercise its wise discretion by
staying its hands. Compare Thompson v. Magnolia Co.,
309 U. S.478.
We therefore remand the cause to the district court,
with directions to retain the bill pending a determination

502

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

312 U. S.

of proceedings, to be brought with reasonable promptness, in the state court in conformity with this opinion.
Compare Atlas Ins. Co. v. Southern, Inc., 306 U. S. 563,

573, and cases cited.
Reversed.

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

MISSOURI-KANSAS PIPE LINE CO. v. UNITED
STATES ET AL.*
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE.

No. 268.

Argued February 12, 13, 1941.-Decided March 3, 1941.

1. In a suit by the United States to enjoin violation of the Sherman
Antitrust Act resulting from control of the affairs of a gas pipe
line company by competitors through stock ownership, etc., a
consent decree was entered which specifically conferred certain
rights on the pipe line company and specifically provided that
upon proper application it could become a party to the suit
for the purpose of enforcing those rights, jurisdiction of the cause
and the parties being retained to give full effect to the decree.
Held:
(1) The right of the pipe line company to intervene at a subsequent stage to enforce the rights so reserved, was not dependent
upon Rule 24 (a) of the Rules of Civil Procedure, nor subject
to the District Court's discretion, but was a right established
by the consent decree. P. 505..
(2) Orders denying motions to intervene made on its behalf
were final orders appealable to this Court. P. 508.
(3) Enforcement of such rights of the pipe line company
through its intervention and active participation in the litigation
would not conflict with the public duties of the Attorney General.
P. 508.

*Together with No. 269, Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Co. v.
United States et al., also on appeal from the District Court of the
Thited States for the District of Delaware..

