R. F. C. v. MENIHAN CORP.
Syllabus.

52

legislation into harmony with existing federal statutes
and to avoid, so far as consistent with its purposes, any
harsh or oppressive requirements, but in all this there is
to be found no warrant for saying that there was a Congressional purpose to curtail the exercise of any constitutional power of the state over its alien residents or to
protect the alien from state action which the Constitution prohibits and which the federal courts stand ready
to prevent. See Hague v. C. I. 0., 307 U. S. 496, 518, 525
et seq.
Here compliance with the state law does not preclude
or even interfere with compliance with the act of Congress. The enforcement of both acts involves no more
inconsistency, no more inconvenience to the individual,
and no more embarrassment to either government than
do any of the laws, state and national, such as revenue
laws, licensing laws, or police regulations, where interstate commerce is involved, which are equally applied to
the citizen because he is subject, as are aliens, to a dual
sovereignty.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS
I
concur in this opinion.

RECONSTRUCTION FINANCE CORPORATION v.

J. G. MENIHAN CORP.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 200. Argued January 10, 1941.-Decided February 3, 1941.
1. Rule 54 (d) of the Rules of Civil Procedure providing that "costs
against the United States, its officers, and agencies shall be imposed
only to the extent permitted by law," is merely declaratory and
effected no change of principle. P. 83.
2. The Reconstruction Finance Corporation, a government agency
whose transactions are akin to those of private enterprise and
301335 -41-0

82

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

which" is empowered by statute to sue and be sued, has not been
endowed by Congress with governmental immunity from the costs
and equitable allowances which are the natural and appropriate
incidents of litigation. P. 83.
Held, that in an unsuccessful suit by the Corporation to enjoin
alleged infringements of trade-marks the right to which it claims
as part of property on which it has taken mortgages and assignments as security for a loan, the Corporation is liable for costs
and the additional allowance made by courts of equity in such
cases in accordance with sound equity practice.
111 F. 2d 940, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

311 U. S. 625, to review the affirmance of a

decree which reversed an order of the District Court denying costs and an additional allowance, 29 F. Supp. 853,
in a suit to enjoin an alleged infringement of trademarks.
Mr. Clifford J. Durr, with whom Solicitor General Biddle and Mr. Hans A. Klagsbrunn were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Arthilr E. Sutherland, Jr. argued the cause, and
Mr. George H. Harris was on a brief, for respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
Petitioner, Reconstruction Finance Corporation, took
mortgages and assignments of real and personal property
of a corporation, including its. trade-marks and trade
names, as security for a loan. On a sale by the trustee
in bankruptcy of the debtor, petitioner purchased the
property. A new corporation undertook to use the
trade-marks and petitioner sought an injunction. Decree went against petitioner. Defendants' application
for costs and additional allowance was denied. 29 F.
Supp. 853. This order was reversed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals, 111 F. 2d 940, and we granted certiorari
because of a conflict of decisions. See Federal Deposit

R. F. C. v. MENIHAN CORP.
81

Opinion of the Court.

Insurance Corporation v. Casady, C. C. A. 10th, 106
F. 2d 784.
Rule 54 (d) of the Rules of Civil Procedure provides
that "costs against the United States, its officers, and
agencies shall be imposed only to the extent permitted
by law." This provision was merely declaratory and
effected no change of principle.
The Reconstruction Finance Corporation is a corporate agency of the government, which is its sole stockholder. 47 Stat. 5; 15 U. S. C. 601. It is managed by
a board of directors appointed by the President by and
with the advice and consent of the Senate. The Corporation has wide powers and conducts financial operations
on a vast scale. While it acts as a governmental agency
in performing its functions (see Pittman v. Home Owners' Loan Corp., 308 U. S. 21, 32, 33), still its transactions
are akin to those of private enterprises and the mere fact
that it is an agency of the government does not extend
to it the immunity of the sovereign. Sloan Shipyards
Corp. v. United States Fleet Corporation,258 U. S. 549,
566, 567. Congress has expressly provided that the Reconstruction Finance Corporation shall have power "to
sue and be sued, to complain and to defend, in any court
of competent jurisdiction, State or Federal." There is
nothing in the statutes governing its transactions which
suggests any intention of Congress that in suing and
being sued the Corporation should not be subject to the
ordinary incident of unsuccessful litigation in being liable for the costs which might properly be awarded
against a private party in a similar case.
We have had recent occasion to consider the status, in
relation to suits, of a regional corporation chartered by
the Reconstruction Finance Corporation and we have set
forth the general principles which we think should govern
in our approach to the particular question now presented.
Ke fer v. Reconstruction Finance Corporation,306 U. S.

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

381. In the Keifer case we did not find it necessary to
trace to its origin the doctrine of the exceptional freedom
of the United States from legal responsibility, but we
observed that "because the doctrine gives the government
a privileged position, it has been appropriately confined."
Hence, we declared that "the government does not become the conduit of its immunity in suits against its
agents or instrumentalities merely because they do its
work." Id., p. 388. Recognizing that Congress may endow a governmental corporation with the government's
immunity, we found the question to be "Has it done so?"
That is, immunity in'the case of a governmental agency
is not presumed. We sought evidence that Congress
had intended that its creature, considering the purpose
and scope of its powers, should have the immunity which
the sovereign itself enjoyed, and we noted the practice
of Congress as an indication "of the present climate of
opinion" which had brought governmental immunity
from suit into disfavor. Accordingly, being unable to
find that Congress had intended immunity from suit we
denied it.
It was with a similar approach that we decided in
Federal Housing Administration v. Burr, 309 U. S. 242,
that the Federal Housing Administration was subject to
be garnished under state law for moneys due to an employee. There, the Administrator under the National
Housing Act was authorized "to sue and be sued in any
court of competent jurisdiction, State or Federal." 49
Stat. 722. Starting from the premise indicated in the
Keifer case that waivers by Congress of governmental
immunity from suit should be liberally construed in the
case of federal instrumentalities-that being in line with
the current disfavor of the doctrine of governmental immunity-we concluded that in the absence of a contrary
showing "it must be presumed that when Congress
launched a governmental agency into the commercial

R. F. C. v. MENIHAN CORP.
81

Opinion of the Court.

world and endowed it with authority to 'sue and be sued'
that agency is not less amenable to judicial process than
a private enterprise under like circumstances would be."
Following that reasoning, the precise point of the decision was that the words "sue and be sued" normally embrace all civil process incident to the commencement or
continuance of legal proceedings and hence embraced
garnishment, as part of that process.
These decisions chart our course. The Reconstruction
Finance Corporation is expressly authorized to sue and
be sued. It has availed itself of that authority to bring
the defendants into court to answer the charge of trademark infringemen t. The defendants have successfully
resisted the charge and the question is whether they
should be denied the usual incidents of their success.
We apply the principle that there is no presumption
that the agent is clothed with sovereign immunity. We
look as in the Keifer and Burr cases to see whether Congress has endowed petitioner with that immunity and
we find no indications whatever of such an intent. We
apply the farther principle that the words "sue and be
sued" normally include the natural and appropriate incidents of legal proceedings. The payment of costs by
the unsuccessful litigant, awarded by the court in the
proper exercise of the authority it possesses in similar
cases, is manifestly Such an incident. The additional
allowance made by courts of equity in accordance with
sound equity practice is likewise such an incident.
Sprague v. Ticonic Bank, 307 U. S. 161. We perceive
no reason for holding that petitioner may avail itself
of the judicial process. in accordance with the authority
conferred upon it and escape the usual incidets of that
process in case its assertions of right prove to be unfounded. On the contrary, we think that the unqualified
authority to sue and be sued placed petitioner upon an
equal footing with private parties as to the usual inci-

86

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

312 U. S.

dents of suits in relation to the payment of costs and
allowances.
The. judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
took no part in .the consideration
and decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

UNITED STATES v. GILLILAND ET

AL.*

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 245. Argued January 10, 1941.-Decided February 3, 1941.
1. On an appeal under the Criminal' Appeals Act the Court is concerned with the construction of the criminal statute involved and
not with interpretation of the indictment as a pleading. P. 89.
2. That part of ยง 35 of the Criminal Code, as amended by the Act
of June 18, 1934, which makes it a crime knowingly and willfully
to cause to be made or used any false affidavit, etc., knowing
the same to contain any fraudulent statement, "in any matter
within the jurisdiction of any departinent or agency of the United
States," is not restricted to cases involving pecuniary or property
loss to the United States. P. 91.
3. The language and history of the amending Act show that it was
intended to protect the authorized functions of governmental departments and agencies from the perversion which might result
from the deceptive practices described. P. 93.
4. Section 35 of the Criminal Code, as amerled by the Act of
June 18, 1934, embraces verified reports falsely and fraudulently
stating the amount of petroleum produced from specified wells
or received from other producers, which reports were filed with a
Federal Tender Board in purported compliance with executive
regulations promulgated by the Secretary of the Interior, with
the approval of the President, under the "Hot Oil" Act oi February 22, 1935. P. 95.
*In United States v. Cohn, 270 U. S. 339, first paragraph of

headnotes, change "ยง 65" to ยง 35.-REORTER,

