MAASS v. HIGGINS.
Counsel for Parties.

MAASS, EXECUTOR, v. HIGGINS, COLLECTOR OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 274.

Argued February 3, 1941.-Decided March 3, 1941.

.1.Where an executor elects, under §302 (j) of the Revenue Act
of 1926, as added by § 202 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1935, to
have the estate valued as of one year after death, or to have
items of the estate which have been disposed of during the year
valued as of the time of disposition, rents, dividends and interest
accrued and received between the time of death and the time
of such valuation should not be included as part of the value of
the gross estate. P. 446.
2. Art. 11, T. R. 80 (1937 ed.), to the contrary, is invalid. P. 446.
111 F. 2d 78; 114 id. 1017, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

311 U. S. 626, to review judgments sustain-

ing deficiency assessments of estate taxes. No. 274 was
a suit against a Collector to recover an alleged overpayment. For the opinion of the District Court, see 29
F. Supp. 996. The other two cases were decided in the
first instance by the Board of Tax Appeals, whose decision, 41 B. T. A. 1178, sustaining the Commissioner was
affirmed by the court below on a petition to review it.
Mr. Homer S. Cummings argued the cause, and Messrs.
Wilbur C. Davidson, Herbert H. Maass, David J. Levy,
and Melville F. Weston were on the brief, for petitioner
in No. 274. Mr. Rollin Browne, with whom Messrs.

James D. Ouchterloney and George Craven were on the
brief, for petitioners in Nos. 510 and 511.
* Together with No. 510, Estate of Abendroth et al. v. Commis-

sioner of Internal Revenue, and No. 511, Estate of Blacque et al. v.
Commissioner of Internal Revenue, also on writs of certiorari, 311 U. S.
641, to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

Mr. Richard H. Demuth, with whom Solicitor General
Biddle, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs.
Sewall Key and Harry Marselli were on the brief, for
respondents.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In these cases we must decide whether, where an executor avails himself of the option extended by the estate
tax law to value a decedent's gross estate as of one year
after the decedent's death, rents, dividends, and interest
received and accrued during the year are to be added to
the value of the property to which they are attributable
and included in the value of the gross estate. The question arises under § 302 (j) of the Revenue Act of 1926
as added by § 202 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1935.1
No. 274 is a suit against the Collector to recover an
overpayment of tax. The complaint alleged that the
decedent died August 30, 1936; that in the estate's return the executors elected to have the value of the gross
'The subsection has now been embodied in the Internal Revenue
Code as § 811 (j), 53 Stat. 122, 26 U. S. C. 811 (j), and is in part
as follows:

"Optional valuation. If the executor so elects upon his return . . ., the value of the gross estate shall be determined by valuing all' the property included therein on the date of the decedent's
death as of the date one year after the decedent's death, except
that (1) property included in the gross estate on the date of death
and, within one year after the decedent's death, distributed . . . or
sold, exchanged, or otherwise disposed of, shall be included at its
value as of the time of such distribution, sale, exchange, or other
disposition, whichever first occurs, instead of its value as of the
date one year after the decedent's death, and (2) any interest or
estate which is 'affected by mere lapse of time shall be included
at its value as of the time of death (instead of the later date) with
adjustment for any difference in its value as of the later date not
due to mere lapse of time ...
"

MAASS v. HIGGINS.
443

Opinion of the Court.

estate determined by valuing it as of one year after the
decedent's death; that the Commissioner included in the
estate a sum which was not in fact the decedent's property at the time of her death but represented income,
namely, rents, dividends, and interest earned by the
estate subsequent to the decedent's death; that the executors paid the tax and their claim for refund was rejected. The Collector's answer raised no material issue
of fact. Each party moved for judgment on the pleadings. The court dismissed the complaint 2 The Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed, one judge dissenting.'
In Nos. 510 and 511, the executor of two decedents
who died respectively October 9, 1936, and April 3, 1937,
elected in its returns to have the gross estates valued as
of one year after death or as of date of disposition. In
each case the executor collected interest and dividends
upon bonds and stocks forming part of the estate at
decedent's death. The sums so collected were not reckoned in fixing the values of the estates, except such portion of them as accrued prior to death. The Commissioner determined deficiencies due to the failure to return
them. The Board of Tax Appeals affirmed his Action "
and the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the Board's
decision.'
Although there was no conflict between decisions of
Circuit Courts of Appeals,' we granted certiorari because
of the importance of the question and the number of
pending cases in which it is presented.
'29 F. Supp. 996.
a111 F. 2d 78.

'41 B. T. A. 1178, four members dissenting.
114 F. 2d 1017.

'The District Court for Maryland has decided contrary to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit: Clark v. United
States, 33 F. Supp. 216.

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

It is agreed that the purpose of subdivision (j) was to
mitigate the hardship consequent upon shrinkage in the
value of estates during the year following death. Congress enacted it in the light of the fact that, due to such
shrinkages, many estates were almost obliterated by the
necessity of paying a tax on the value of the assets at
the date of decedent's death. About one year after the
adoption of the subsection, the Treasury promulgated Art.
11 of Regulations 80 (1937 Ed.) in which it ruled that
interest-bearing obligations, such as bonds, embodied
two promises, one to pay principal, the other to pay
interest, both a part of the gross estate if the obligation
was owned by the decedent at his death. It further
ruled that in the case of leased real estate two factors
were to be considered, the value of the realty and the
value of the covenant to pay rent. With respect to
stocks, it ruled that the value of the stock and the value
of the right to dividends thereon were separable and each
constituted an element of value to the decedent. The
regulation required that if, during the year subsequent
to death, rents, royalties, interest, or dividends were received by the decedent's estate, such portion thereof as
had not accrued, or was not attributable to a period, prior
to death, should be returned in full and reckoned as part
of the gross estate in any case where the executor elected,
as permitted by subsection (j), to value the assets as of
one year after the decedent's death or as of the date of
disposition of any asset. In accordance with the regulation the deficiencies* in the present cases were determined.
In the courts below, and before the Board of Tax
Appeals, the Government contended that such items of
income are in truth payments on account of principal
and that, by such payments, the principal is reduced so
that, when the capital asset is valued at the end of the
period, its true value is not reflected unless there be

MAASS v. HIGGINS.
443

Opinion of the Court.

added the interest, dividend, or other like payment received by the estate in the interim. In this court, the
argument takes a somewhat different form. Reference
is made to the fact that, under the option granted, a capital asset is to be valued either at the expiration of the
year or at the time of disposition and it is urged that,
as respects interest, rent or dividends, a disposition occurs at the date of the receipt of the item. In either aspect the validity of the contention depends upon the
theory that, for purposes of estate tax valuation, the asset consists of two elements,-one the right of ownership
the other the right to receive the income. It is said that
both of these elements enter into the valuation made as
of the date of death and if, in the subsequent period, the
latter emerges in the shape of a payment, that payment
is to be attributable to the income right rather than to
the right of ownership of the income producing property.
On the other hand, the petitioners insist that the Government's position is unreal and artificial; that it does
not comport either with economic theory or business
practice; and that the regulation is an unwarranted extension of the. plain meaning of the statute and cannot,
therefore, be sustained. We hold that the petitioners are
right.
It is not denied that, in common understanding, rents,
interest, and dividends are income. Under the revenue
acts, if such items are collected by a decedent's estate,
the executors are bound to return them and pay tax
upon them as income. In the case of a living holder,
such receipts are never treated as on account of principal. Nor does the promise to pay interest, rents or
dividends either to a living owner of the asset or to his
executor after death, which has not been legally separated
from the asset of which it is an incident, have any mar-

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U.S.

ket value apart from the asset, or bear any invariable
relation
to the value of the capital asset.
It is true
that a bond embodies two promises,
one to
pay the principal at maturity, the other to pay interest
at intervals until maturity. And the promise to pay
interest or rent, or the expectancy of dividends upon
stock, the amount of such payments, the past and prospective regularity of the payments, and other elements
bearing upon the expectation of the receipt of income
affect the value of any income producing property. But
these elements are not separately valued in appraising
the worth of the asset at any given time. It is the uniform practice to value the asset as an entirety, taking
into consideration all the elements that go to give it value
in the market.
In the appraisal of a decedent's estate, rent or interest
accrued to the date of death is properly treated as a
capital asset. So also, on the sale of an interest-bearing
security, it is the uniform practice to add to the value
of the obligation, as such, accrued interest to the date of
sale. Since the statute says that, at the Option of the
executor, a bond may be valued as of one year subsequent
to decedent's death, the natural conclusion is that the
usual method of valuation shall be pulsued whichever
date is selected. The method always adopted for valuation at death is the same used in fixing a sale price; that
is, to take the market value of the bond and add accrued
interest to the date of transfer, at the rate stipulated in
the instrument. It is not believed that Congress, in providing for two dates of valuation, intended that a different method should be followed if one date were chosen
rather than the other.
If Congress intended the result for which the Government contends, namely, that a different method of valuation should apply at the end of the one year period than
that applicable as of the date of death, it would have

MAASS v. HIGGINS.
Opinion of the Court.

443

been a simple matter so to state. That Congress had no
such intention seems clear from the repqrt of the House
Managers on the conference committee report on the bill
which embodied the language in question.7 There an
example is given as to how the calculation of value should
be made at the end of the year. In this example, appreciation and depreciation in the value of bonds, stocks,
and other assets, during the year, are shown but dividends
or interest received are not included.
As has been said, the view we take comports with
standard business practice; whereas the theory advocated
by the Government involves the attribution to interest
payments of a quality derived from a refined separation
of so-called rights inherent in the ownership of incomeproducing property. Conceding that the ownership of
a bond involves both the right to receive principal and
the right to receive income, it is a highly artificial concept
that an interest payment is a disposition, pro tanto, of
the latt4-right by the owner of the obligation. Moreover, while the Constitution does not forbid double taxation, the intent to impose it upon a given receipt is not
presumed. We think that, if it had been intended, Congress unequivocally would have so declared.
Judgments reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS are of
the view that this question of statutory construction is
peculiarly appropriate for administrative interpretation
(see Paul, Studies in Federal Taxation (3d series) pp.
423-425) and accordingly that the judgments in these
cases should be affirmed for the reasons stated in the
opinion of the court below in No. 274, Saks v. Higgins,
111 F. 2d 78.
' H. R. 1885, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 10-11.
301335°--41-29

