SUPREME CoURT OF Pennjylvania.

257

the judge had judicially circumfcribed the operation of a certificate under the Pennflvaniabankrupt law, within the limits of
the State.
By TEs COURT :-L.et the rule bemade abfolute.
BEACH verfus LEE.

'HIS was an a&ion on the cafe, brought againft the deferi;
dant, under the following circumifances, which were efJ
tablifhed by evidence on the trial. The defendant's wife, previous to her marriage, had executed a bond to the plaintiff;
which, at the time of her death, remained unfatisfied. It appeared, however, that, in confeqvence of themarriage, the defendant .had become poffeffed of, and ftill enjoyed, a confiderable property, belonging to his wife, more than equal.to the amount of ie bond ; that, duripg her life time, he had affumed
to pay the bond, and had a&ually made feveral partial payments
on account of it ; and that he had promifed to pay the remainder, even fubfequent to her deceafe.
The ation was founded on the exprefs aFfunpt; and though
it was conceded by the plaintiff's counfel, that the defendantwas not liable, fince the death of his wife, on the bond itfelf;
yet, he infifted, that the bond was good evidence to prove the
exiftence of the debt, to which the fpecial aumpfit applied. See
I Roll. Abr. 351. p1. 35. Bro. Abr. tit. " Debt' P1. L8o.
o
x Lev. 25. Cowp. 29 . Bull. N. P. 281.
But, upon the fats proved, it was agreed by the counfel for the

,defendant, and fan&ioned nY THE COURT, that the plaintiff
was entitled to recover ; though it was not admitted, that,
'without proof of the fpecial aflumpfit, the defendant would have
been liable for the debt.
The caufe was, accordingly, left to the Jury, merely to afer.
tain how much was the balance due on the boa.
M. Levy for the plaintiff. Lewis for the defendant.
WALKER verfil! DILWoRTH, et at.

T

HIS was a fummons in partition, on which the plaintiff, as

tenant by the curtefy, demanded partition againft the dendants, under the circum[Lances ftated in the following declaration.
PhiladelphiaCounty, to wit :-Ann Dilworth, the elder, late
of the faid county, widow, and Ann Dil'wort, the younger, late

Nl

Q9

F'196
*"''

