332

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

1795- than have been given ; and to thefe -lieadded the change of the
But he particularly infifted, that the negle& of appealifig from the order, of Chief Juftice M'KEAN, was his own
laches, which he ought not to be allowed to remedy by transfering the fuit to another Court, at the expence of his antagofff. 2 Wii. 318 1.
PATTERSON, Jfliuce :-The grounds of vexation in this cafe
do not appear to me to be fuch as to juftify the refufal of bail ;
and every cafe of this nature muff be decided upon its own
circumftances. I fhall always, indeed, be a friend to the practice of holding to bail, wherever there is a probable caufe of
acion. Here the caufe of a&ioni3 apparent; ? nd though 'it
may be liable to a reafonable controverfy, or may be refuted upon a trial, we ought not to inveftigate the merits at this ftage,
ftirther than to afcertain what probability there exifts in fupport of the plaintiff's claim. The negle& to appeal from the
order of the Chief Juffice of Pennfylvania, whiclt eventually
occafioned the difcondnuance of the firft fuit, appears, likewife,
to be a mere flip of the attorney ; and if -a e can, confiftently
with the law, prevent the plaintiff's fuffexing in confequence of
that. flip, I think we ought to do it.

L%-%j tribunal.

PETERS, J7uJ/ice :-On the hearing before me, I perceived,

that.there had been a lapfe in not bringing the firft fuit formally before the State Court; and I was defirous of putting the
quefti6n on the fame footing here, as if an appeal had been regularly inftituted there. I entertain a high refpe& for the opinions of the Chief Juftice of Penwfylvania ; and, on this occafion, I am difpofed to think, that the plaintiff's inability to ftate
his cafe in the abfence of his attorney, or the defe& of proof
at the time, occafioned his iffuing the order for difcbarging the
defendant on common bail. But, as the matter appears to this
Court, I perfe6tly concur in the fentiments, which have been
delivered by Judge PATTERON.
The order to hold the defendant to bail, was, accordingly,
affirmed.
GEYGER's Leffee vesfus GEYGER.

'A

RULE had been obtained by the plaintiff, requiring the
defendant to fhew caufe, why an order fliould not be
made for the produaion of certain deeds and papers on the trial
-of this caufe, agreeably to the provifion of the x5 th fe&ion of
the judicial a&: And now, on proof that a copy of the rule was
ferved on the plaintiff's attorney, it was moved to make the fame
abfr' te.
But,

CIRCUT CouRT

PennIvanhr Diftil.

333
But, for the defendant,,it was contended, that the notice of r795.
the rule fhould have been given to the party, and not to his at- A.0_VyJ
torney. In Rivers v. Waller, I Dall. Rep. 8 1. notice, in the
cafe of referees, is direced to be given to the party ; and the
reafon is ftronger in the prefent inftance, as the defendant lives
at a great diftance, and the attorney ought not to be put to the
trouble and expence oi tranfmitting the notice. Befides, there
is no certificate produced that the deeds are not on record ; and
the fa& is that they are recorded ; fo that the plairitiff might,
ai any time, procure exemplifications.
BY THE COURT :-The provifion contained in the judicial
al was intended to prevent the neceflity of inftituting fuits in
Equity, merely to -obtain from an adverfe party, the produ&ion
of deeds and papers relative to the litigated iffue. The a&t
fays, generally, that the Court thall have power, " on motion
and due notice thereof being given, to require the parties to
produce books or writings, &c." without defignating to whom
the notice ffall be given, the party himfelf, or his attorney.
But we will always keep the caufe under our controul for the
purpofes of fubftantial juftice, and never fufTer either party to
be entrapped. If, for inftance, notice is ferved on an attorney,
whofe client lives at a great diftance, this will always be deemed a fuficient reafon to poftpone the trial, 'till a full opportfnity
has been afforded for the attorney's communicating the rule to
the client. If, likewife, the Court find that the deeds are actually on record, we will not indulge the party with a rule for
producing them, merely as a cheap mode of pr"curing evidence.
The originals may fometimes, indeed, be neceffary, for a fpecial realon, detached from the evidence ; 'but, in that cafe, the
1pecial reafon muftbe. aligned to the Court.
The defendant's counfel offering to refer their .pponents to
the pages, &c. where the deeds in queftion are recorded, THE
COURT declared that.this put an end to the matter ; but added,
that if it was not fatisfa~lorily done, they would not allow the
caufe to be brought to trial.
Zevy and Blair, for the plaintiff. Tilghman and Armflrong,
for the defendant.

The

T

UNITED S IATES

verfas

CALDWELL:

HIS was an indi~lment for a mifdemeanor committed in
North,,mberlandCounty, in which afiubptna had ifiued,
on the P.ft of the defendant, to fummon Samuel MIClay, Efq.
and .7ohn M'Perfin, Efq. Affociate Judges 'of the County
Courts of Arotnbel-Iand to appear in the Circuit Court as
witneffes

