CiRcuIr CoURr, Peflfylvania Diftri&.

373

ralized under it, having the rights of the old, is in a fituation pre- 1797.
ferable to a natural bdrn citizen under the accumulative reftraints %.rV--'
of the new conflitution. But a contrary conftru~tion has been
given whenever the point was direly prefented for confideration (which was not the cafe in Collet v. Collet) bythe legiflature,
by our courts, and by the bar.
'PETERS, :oice. At the time of committing the defendant,
fome doubts arofe in my mind; which, on account of the importance of the fubje~t, I thought it more proper to fubmit to 4
folemn difcuffion, than haftily-to decide at my chambers. I take
the earlieft opportunity, however, to acknowledge, that I am;
now convinced the commitment vas erroneous. Thea& of affembly is obvioufly inconfiftent with the exifting conifitution'of
the ftate ; and, therefore, cannot be faved by the general provifion of the fchedule annexed to it. On that ground only my
opinion is formed ; but it is fufficient to authorife a declaration,
that the proceeding before the Mayor was, ipfofaio, void; that,
the prifoner is not a citizen of the United Statej ; and that, confequently, he muff be releafed from the charge of Higl-Treafon.
I am of the fame opinion. Difficulties,
IREDELL, Yu/lice.
it is true, have been fuggefted on points not neceffary to a decifion on the prefeni occafron ; and, certainly, if the queftion had
not previoufly occurred, I fhould be difpofed to think, that the
power of naturalization operated exclufively, as foon as it was
exercifed by .Congrefs.
But the circumftances of the cafe now before the court, render
it unneceffary to enquire into the relative jurifdi&ions of the
State and Federal governments. The only a2 of naturalization
fuggefted, depends upon the exiftence, or non-exiftence, of a law
of-Pennfylvania; and it is plain, that upon the abolition of the
old conifitution of the Riate, the law became inconfiftent with
the provifions of the new conftitution, and, of courfe, ceafed to
exift, long before the fuppofed aS of naturalization was performed.
The Prifoner mull, therefore, be difchArged.
The

A

UNITED STATES verfus PARKER.

et al.

Caplas had iffued in this caufe againft Daniel Parker,
Win. Duer, and 7ohn Holker, teturnable to .April term
1792 ; and the Marfbal then returned, Cepi Corpus as to Duer,
(who gave fpecial bail in due time) and non funt inventi, as to
Parker and Holker. After a declaration was filed (reciting that
the IM-arfhal had not found two of the defendants withifi his
Diflri&, and proceeding againft the other alone, upon the principles

374
1797'-iffue

CAs-s ruled ind adjudged in the

ciples of the. pra&ice of the Courts, of Peunfylvanina) atter
had been joined, and a variety 'ofcontinuances, and other
entries, made upon the recbrd, an origial, not an Alias, Capia,
wa iffued, on the 9th of Auguft 1796, returnable to O&ober
term following againft Holker alone, upon which writ he was
arrefted; but on a hearing before WILSON, Uflice, he was
difcharged on common bail.* In O&ober'term, the Attorficy
of the Diflri& (RawleJ had obtained two. rules
if. Tliat
Iolker fhew caufe on the firft day of the prefent term; why
the writ iffued flould not be amended, conformably to the precept, which, "it
was alledged, dirc&ed an liis Capias:-And
1. That Halker fhew caufe, why the Plaintiff fhould not file
common bail for him. It was agreed, -however, -that the cafe
fhould be argued, as if the laff writ had been an -4iasCapias,
reciting the original Capias and return ; and the only queftion
difcuffed was-Whether an Alias Capias could iffue, after the
Iapfe of fo many terms, and. under the circumitances appearing
upon the record, 'tolrreft Holer, and make him a party to the
exilhng f it?
R a,le, for the plaintiff, obferved, that upon principles of
common juftice, and, he thought, upon principles of law too,
when there were feveral defendants, and one only was taken
on the firft writ,, procefs might iffue, from time to time, to
bring the others into Court, without compelling the plaintiff
to difcontinue his affion." By the rrth fJeion of the Judicial
Af (x Fol. 8wift's Edit. p. 58. 9.) .itis provided, that the
Courts of the United States." fhall have power to iffue writ&

of Scire F*cias, HaeasCor'pu, "andall other wits notfpecial
pr ded for. by flatute, which "may be necefary for the exerc e of
tdeir' refpeliive jurifdi~ionx, 'and agreeable to tbe principlei and'

vfages of law." It is only incumbent on-the plaintiff, ,therefore., to fhew, that. the prefent writ is neceffary to'the efficient
exercife of the Court's jurisdilion, and that it is agreeable- to.
the principles and'ufages of-law. .It is. admitted, that the.
courfe of proceeding in Zngland is different.
here, the dcienS"nt, who is not t~ken.upon the writ, muft be purfued to outlawry ;'and if he d6e not enter bail, in order to avoid the pe3Ial confequencei, the plaintiff applies to the Exchequer' for a
fequeftration, and obtains payment from -the outlaw's effecs.
I Stra. 473 - B1. Rep-. 759. 2 BI. Com. 283. But no mode of
proceeding

This aitioh had been originally inftit4ted in the Supreme Court of

.ennyl.Vania; andHolr-(who was then the only perfon arrefled) preffed
for a trial; but a tkr-an'inege&ual oppofition to an order for bring-ii.g oli.tne caufe, t4e ,Attorney- of the Diltrict entered difcontimuance. 'On this ground, I am informed, Judge Wmo directc&
comnonxbail %Q
he.accept i from Rtolher inthe fecand fiat.

CIR.CUIT COURT, Pentnflvania Diftri&.

375

proceeding to outlawry in civilcafesis recognized, or prefcribid, I7974
by any law of the Federal, or State, government; and even in 0e
criminal cafes, it ia queftionable, whether the State laW could
furnifh a rule for the United States. Unlefs, therefore, the
mode now purfued fhall be fan&ioned, endlefs inconveniencies
will arife in the adminiflration of juftice; for, the plaintiffcannot difcontinue his affion, without certainly lofing bail -as to
one defendant, while he-has only.a chance of obtaining it from
another. If then, there is a neceffity of adopting fome procefs
to prevent a right being without a remedy, the prefent pfocefs
,will be found perfe&ly confiffent with the principles: and ufages of law; and the-informality of the continuances will not
be of fufficient moment to attrait the aitention of the Court.
400. Such procefs has been iffued repeatedly, both in
Sell. Pr*
the Supreme Court and Common Pleas of Penniylvania; though
the regularity of it was never, indeed, contefied. ' In England,
however, the Courts of Law and Cliancery were bound by lorini
of writ, of almoft immemorial antiquity, and always prefcribed
by the exprefs authority of Patliament; 'till the preffure of bufinefs, and the diverfity of the cafes that arofe, produced the
flatute of W4efir. 2. which authbrifed the clerks in Chancery
to frame writs in confimili cafg ; and in the exercife of that au-

thority, from time to time, a confiderable latitudce has been taken.
4 Reeves H. .E.L.426. 2 Reeves H. E.L. 202. 2Infl.4o4.407.
Gilb. C.P. 2.3.4. 8. Co..48.. An authority ftri&ly analogous is

,given

to the Federal Courts by the Judicial ackt; anl as, there is.
no common ocina breviumi it follows, of .courfe, that each
.Court muft frame its own writs, according to the nature of the
refpeffive cafes.
.Gifon, Ingeifjll and I)allas, for the defendant, Holker, wa-ved all objeftion to the merq form of the fecond capias; but infifted, that even an alias,capias could not ifTue, Vnlefs it was
retd of the term, to which the original -was returned, and.
made returnable to the next immediately enfuing term.* They
exemplified the mode of proceeding by outlawry irEngland,oa
a return of non S# inventus'asto one of feveral defendants; the
force of the ifle joined.; and the imprafticability of making an
amendment in the declaration filed, to meet the new cafe to be
brought upon the record, from- i" Stra. 473. I Wilt. 78. 2
Sellon Pr. 389. 5 -Con. Dig. 62. One defendant has -given
bail for he whole amount 6f the demand*; the declaration ex-.
prefsly ftates, that Holker is ndt a party to the fuit ; and an iffuc

Is it intended to maintain the. writ on1 the
O TI-REDLL, JuStice.
footing of an alias,unlefs iflrued to tue next terrn after.:tbc return Qf
the original capias-?
I think it can be fo maintaiaea.
Rawk/.

376

CAses ruled mid adjudged in the

i797. fue is a&ually joined by Duer alone. If, therefore, the plairt.
tw-y-- tiff fucceeds in the prefent obje&, how is the record to be new
modelled, upon any principle 6f law, or pra&ice, fo as to be
rendered confifent with itfeif, and with- the truth'of the cafe?
What will be the title of the declaration 5-of what term fhall
it be filed ;-what fhall be the form of the old, or any new,
iffue ;-ad what is to be done with the original writ, and its re-'
turn ? Thus, the perplexity arifing from the plaintiff's do&rine,
(which, if it is juft in one cafe, muft be juft in every cafe) is
endlefs and infurmountable. Suppofe the fuit originated in the
Common Fleas, but had been" removed into the Supreme Court
before the fecond writ iffues :-from which Court fhall the fe-.
cond writ iflue, and may one half of 'the caufe be depending ii
the Court above, and the other half in the Court below ? Sup-.
pofe A verdi&t "givenon the firil writ, before' the fecond writ.is
returned :-can there be two verdi&s for the fame caufe, how'
Thall the amount be afcertained, or execution iffue; and what is
to be done if the verdi&s fhould be contradi&ory ? -Suppofe
there are ten defendants to one contfa&, can it be reafonable or
juft, that there fhould be ten writs iffued, or that ten bail bonds
fhould be fucceffively taken, for ien times the amount of the
demand, or howis the bail to be modified and apportioned ?
Many other hypothefes might be fairly fuggefted to evince the
extravagance,' to -which an allowance of the prefent motion
would lead; and even after allowing it, there would arife another difficulty, in afcertaining in what aaioin conemon bail fhould*
be entered for Holker, as there are now de.arly two a&ions for
the tme caufe on the records. See 5 Com. Dig. 297.
But it is not intended to leave the plaintiff without a remedy,
If the bail is fatisfa&ory (and fatisfa&ory bail canalways be
exaed," to the full amount of the demand upon the arreft of
any one of the parties) the plaintiff may proceed to recover
judgment, conformably to the ftate praCtice. If the plaintiff
is hot fatisfied with the bail, then there may be a difcontinu.ance; or, perhaps, the procefs may be kept alive, from term to
term, till all the parties to the contra&,are brought into court.
Rawle,, in reply. The confequences afcribed .to the" doctrine, .in fupport of the motion, owe all their extravagance to
the imagination of the oppofite counfel. There is ai? important
diftintion between ufages of law, and the practice of courts ;the latter being only a part of the former, and not, of courfe,
as extenfive. The queftion, therefore, fhould not be referred to
the pra&ice of the rate Courts, but fhould-be decided by the
-ufages of law, under the a&t of Congrefs; and if it is fliewn,
that the mode of proceeding, now purfued, is not inconfiftent
with thd State pratice, while it is agfeeable to the ufages and
-

jrinciples

CH.Crr CoURT, Penv
tania

-

Diftilet

3377'

Principles of law, it fhould be fanfioned by the Court. The 1797,
procefs of catlawry in Eagland is neither a dilaiory, nor a
precarious, remedy; for, all the writs may iffue- at once ;
the efft&.,
by pronouncing the civil death of the party
cannot be prevcnted ; and the plaintiff iS entitled to receive
his money from te public treaiury out of the fequeftered
effe6ts of the delinquent. Sell. Pr. Here, however, it would
be idle to fufpend all proceedings againft the defendant who is
arrefted; fince there is no legal procefs by which the effets of
a non-uppearing defendant can be made tefponfible; and it is
uncertain when (if ever) he will come within the jtrrifdtcion of
the Court. The procefs of outlawry was devifed, principally,
to get clear of the return of non e0 inventux, mad to fhew that
the plaintiff has done every thing in his power to bring all the
parties before the Court ; but it was never intended as an in;
Itrument of indulgence and benefit to the arrefted defendant.
It is aiked, however, in what way the record and pleadings
may be made confiftent, on the infertion of Hoter name as a.
defendant? In the firftplace, it is to be anfwered, that whenever bail is entered, it has relation, by a legal retrofpeCt, to the
firft day of the term. to which the eapias was returnable; fo,
the Court may order Holker': bail to be filed as of April term
i 792 ; abdj thereupon, grant. leave to impat. As to the de;
claration, it may be amended to cortcfpond with the fat; and
even the cafe in 3 Wils. 78, flews in what manner this diffi
culty may be overcomle. i Sell. Pr.260. 88. Nor i8 it ifiportant how many defendants enter bail, or fo" what fum, fince
the plaintiff can recoveir no more than the amount of the demand for which the aaion is biought ;-and joint defendants
may$ in any cafe, ghve feveral bail bondsk The objeffion to
the divifion and multiplication of fiats, Will) likewife, ahaniflij
Wheki it isrecolleted, that the fame effeft is produced by thd
feverafieC of pleas, which may take place (as hiany ptece-a
dents in Lilly'Entriar eftablifh) in every a6hon againit feveral defendants :-A joint iflhe, and a joint judgment are not indifpenfably requilite 1 and -this Coutt has no fuperior Coiurt,
which might involve the inconvetieney of a removal of the fuit
upon the firft writ, before the fecond Writ hiid iffued., If, upon
the whole, the procefi is a neceffary itiftrument for the accompiifiment of juftice, it will be recbghi2ed arid confirmed by
the Court, although it Isnot to be fouid fit the ancient authoritics of Eng)i law.
TEiE COURT, having taken from the irth td the t6th of
*4pril,. to advife, upon the fubjec, delivered the followhig opinions, afte" a recapitulation of the entries on" the tecord..
PnwT ns,.'u~ice. _Thete is no controverfy an th flate of ths
aftiop as it refpe61s Tim. Dite, who has iven bail for, the
Dbb

.378
i

CASEs ruled and adjudged in the '

'797, full amount demknded by the plaintiff; and, it is ;diceded,
that the - procefs ufed on the prefent dccafion, cofjld not have
been ufed in England. In that country, the outlawry in a civil
cafe is, perhaps, an adetlua'te remedy for the plaintiff; but it
is always optional with the defendant, whether he will fubmit
io the rlgor of the proceeding, or enter fpecial bail. In Pennfl-vania, iikewife, a remedy has been introduced by long ufage;
the plaintiff being allowed; if he pleafes, to proceed, at once,
againft the defendant who is hrrefted : And now, as the laws.
of the United States have prefcribed no fpecific mode for a cafe
of this defcription, it is piopofed, under the authority of the
14 th fedion of the Judicial ad, that the Court fhall frame, or,
rather fandion, a new form of writ, which the plaintiff deems.
adequate to the piiipofe, and confiftent with the principles and
ufages of law. But I am not a friend tothis fpecies of Judicial
legiflation ; nor do I think it neceffary, or proper, to exercife
the power of the Court, in the prefent inftance ; even admitting the exiftence of-the power to the extent contended for. It
appears fufficient to my mind, to defeat the prefent motion, that
the alias'is not tefted at the zeturn of the original capias, nor
made returnable at the next enfuing term. r Com. Dig. 239.
There is no principle, or ufage of law, that will fandion the
idea of giving a retrofpe&ive tefte, as far back as 4pril term
1792, toan alias caiPiasiflued in laguf 1796. I am, therefore,.
clearly of opinion, that, on this ground alone, both the rules
muft be difcharged.
IREDVLL, 7qujice.
I agree, in fubftance, with the opinion"
of my brother PETERS. Whatever idea may be entertained of
the authority of the Court, to adopt the pra6tice of Pentiflvavia,, or to devife a new form of procefs upon the principles and
ufages of law, it does not appear to me, that the plaintiff would
be regularly entitled, under the prefent circumftances, to the
bczienc of either pro'ceeding : For, there is no effectual mode of
iffuing an alias capiasibutby tefting it of the term to which the
original writ was returned.
The pradice of Penfylvania may be reafonable ; and its antiquity at leaft would certainlyentitle it to refpeft; but that practice gqes no farther, than to give to the Plaintiff an option, either to fifpend his proceedings 'till'the non-appearing defend.
ant can be arrefted, or to waive, on filing a declaration, all
chance againif him., and enforce the fuit only againft the defendant, who is taken on the capias. In the prefent inftance, it
may have been expedient to adopt the latter eourfe of the alternative, on account of .M.Holker's permanent refidence in another Siate; but being adopted, the plaintiff is bound by it, and
cannot,,even on the principles of the Pnmjf'h!,ania pradice; avail
himfelI:

CIRCUIT COURT, Penimrytvania Diltri&.

379

hinfeif of Mr. Hdlker's cafual vifit to Philadelphia, without dif- r797.
continuing the firf1 adion. What, indeed, would be the con- L
dition of the defendant, who is arrefted, if a different conftruction were toprevail ? He might be ready for trial ; he might
be able tecprove that there was no caufe of adion; he might be
defirous to avoid trouble and expence by a prompt confeffion of
judgment ; or he might be the principal, and the non-appearing
defendant merely a furety, fo that he could derive-no advanItage
from the arreft of his colleague ;-and yet he would be expofed
to an indefinite term of imprifonment, or be held with his bail
for an indefinite period in fufpenfe, at the pleafure of a plaintiff,
who fhould chufe to calculate upon any rcmote poffibility of
bringing ,all the defendants into Court. Thc injoflice a-Id oppreffion to the defendant, furnifhes a firong argument again
the allowance of fuch a privilege to the plaintiff.
It is conceded, however, by the plaintiff's counfel, that the
motion would be irregular, unlefs leave is given to file common bail for 171r. Holker, as ofAprii term 1792, when the original a&ion was inifituted. But why fliould fuch a retrofpe6t
be allowed ? Mr. Holker was not then arrefted ; and fmall the
Court countenance a mcre fiffion ;-a fiffion not indifpenfable
to juftice, unknown in the law, and dire~tly adverfe to the truth
of the cafe, exhibited for a number of years upon the rccord ?
No :- am an enemy to .every fpecies of fi&ions. The fiftions
which have been incorporated into the law by long ufage, (and,
I believe, the cafes of ejectment and common recovery afford
the only fitions recognizcd in 4lmeri a) muft be fuftained ; but
as far as I can prevent the introduftion of novelties of this nature,
I fhall be affiduous to do fo. All the,entries upon the record
were true and rcgular at the time of making them. There -Is,
'therefore, no error to amend; but the Court is aiked, f6r the
convenience of the United States, arbitrarily to aboliflh the writ
and its return, the declaration, the iffue, and the continuances;
and not only to undo uall .that has been previoifly done, but by
an entry of common'bail, to ingraft, in effe&, this falflhood upon
the record, that Mr. Holker was arrefted in .4pril 1792-.
'But after all, I will not anticipate an opinion, upon a cafe,
in which an Alias mal be regularly taken out, and continued,
from term to term ; though my prefent impreffions are unfavorable, cven on that ground, to the plaintif Fs doftrine. The
multiplication of fuits, the, perplexity of entries, and the opprelfive vexation of fucceffive bail bonds, each for the full amount of the demand, are effeits that could not be eafily tolerated ih the adminiftration of juftice. I have not heard, during
the difcuffi ', of any principle, or ufage, of law, that w.uld reconcile them to my mind: but this is not the foundation of the
prefent decifion ; for, the irregularity in the tefle and return
of,
Bbb z

38S

/

CAsns ruled and adjudged in the

1r797. ef the AXiar Capiaj is a fufficient reafon to reje6 the plaintiff's
Ih rales difclharged,

H,coeK Adminifirator

verf!us

HILLEGAS.

THE

defendant had given a Promiory Note t6 the plain.,
tiff for a fpecific fum, on which, in different modes, there
had been feveral partial payments. Before any fettlement of
accounts, however, the defendant .entered- into an agreement,
that judgment fhculd be entered againfl: him by an Atiorney,
"for the amount that may he due". In purfuance of this agreement judgment wVas confeffled, generally, on the 12th of MlfarcA
796; and on the r 4 th of Mllay following, without any previous trial, writ of enquiry, or notice to the defendant, a Fi.Fa.
was iffued and levied, for the full amount of the Promiffory
Nrote.
Tbomas, thereupon, obtained a rule to fhew caufe why the
defendarit fhould not be allowed a fet-off for the amount of his
payments, and that, in the meantime, proceedings on the execution be frayed.
The rule was afterwards oppofed by Lee, the Attorney.
general, who contended, that the regular relief was by application to the equity fide of the Court, for an injun&ion ; whieh

woul4
The caufe (which was rndebitatus Assumpsit) came on for trial
b fore CHAs& and PETRS 77u1sices, at April term 1798, when, after
the opening was comi-,enced by Rawle, for the P ,intiff,
it was dif,
cvered, ttlat the plea of" non assumpit" was entered in short, and
that the Statute of Linitatioms had, ali'o,
been pleaded ; though the
jury were only fworn to try the issue, and not the issues, joined be.
tween the parties.
CUASE, _utice. The whole proceeding is to my mind unintelligible and irregular. There is only one of thepal-tifs to the contra6, .nd
only one of the defendants named inthe wr:t, belore the Court ; and
zo procefs of outLhwry has ben profecutef1 againft the others: how"
Thall we proceed to give judgment? A ain : towhat is the plea of
pon asstt:npszt to be- applied ? I it, that the appearing defendant did,
not affnmehimfelf, or that he did not jointly afl'uune with the oihcr
dfenddants? And how comes the plea of the St-atute tff
Limitations
to be added, withoit the leave of the Court . But the coupfel will
]-ave time to r.tiea upon. thefe difliculties.
For, the jury, are not
fworn, even intiis irnegrar fate of the record,
to try the ilues between the parties; an, threlore, the Court, on its o n authority,
will direct the "Jurorlaft a 'alified to be withdrawn.
A Jur~r was: accordingiy, withdrawn,ai4 the actc.a coptimued 'till

