8-PEECoUtr

0F

Pennfylvard

133

gees were deltribed'in the bond as truftees for the inlants. An

1791'.

abatement of intereft was claimed; but the Court held, that as %.dyj
long as the perfon in 'whom the -legal intereft was -vefted was
here, the intereft muft run. They alfo urged, that the Federal
Court had lately determined at New-Haven, that the treaty -between Great-Britain and .Averica fecured, by its operation,
the payment of intereft during the whole war.
The defendant's counfel, in reply, ftated it at a general rule,
that wherever any one is obliged by the law, or by the creditor,
to keep the money, and is not allowed to pay it, he fiall pay no
intereft. That the claufe in the treaty did not apply, and was.
intended merely to guard again ft the operation of certain a&s of
Maryland and Virginia, which went to the cancelling of the
whole debt. Iiis provided that they fiall recover their juft
debts : but what are their juft debts, is a queftion for the Court
here to determine. Now, in a war, all intercodirfe between
enemies is forbidden. The fituation of Nagle could not vary
the cafe. Parke. 270. I. 2 Val 3I, 2 Mag. 257. He
was out of the enemy's lines, and he was puniihable under out.
a&s of AfTembly, if he went within them.,. In the cafe of Meafe
and Rhodes there was exprefs proof, that Rhodes, during the
war, promifed to pay all the intereft, aid that put an end to the
queftion.
BY THE COURT :--It has been frequently fettled, th&t the
debt being fufpended during the war, no intereft could arife upon it. Of the decifion of the Circuit Court we know' little,
having no report of it) nor any flatement of fa&s, nor in what
manner it came before the Court-, nor whether the counfet
produced to the Court the treaty; orargued the cauf. fo fully
as ought to have been done, if it was intenaed to have the previous decifions reconfidered. If the plaintiffs mean to make it
a points they will have an opportunity fo to do, at the return of
the poftea. We are all of opinion, however, that the interelt
during the war flhould he dedu&ed j.that is for [even and a.half
years.
Verdi& accordingly.t
.fngerfoll and Tilghman, for the plaintiffs,
Sepjeant, for the defendant,
BOND

T

terfu.

TiAAs'S Executors.

HIS was a Scire Facias on a mortgage, dated i .tlh
Augzf9

t777, for the payment ofC25o, at fourper cent, current
money

I34anId adjudged
CAsEs iled
'

in

the

1791. moiney of Penufylvania, in one year. Ai the time the mortgage
was executed continent,1 money was depreciated, and at three
for one. The plaintiff infifted that the whole fur fhould be
paid in fpecie, and offered to prove that Adam Haas, in his life
time, informed a Scrivener, that the money he- had received waa
as good to him as g6ld and filver ; that it was fo, in effeCt, to
the plaintiff; that he was fenfible thathe ought to pay her fpecie,
and defired the Scrivener to draw a writing to fecure it ; and that
Haas died foon after, before he had an opportunity of executing any inftrument to fecure it to the plaintiff. The defendant
oppofed the admiflion of this evid. nce': And
BY THE COURT :-This would be, in effe&, altering the con.
tra, and increafing the value of the money, in dire& op,
pofition to the a& of Affembly. It is fettled in the cafe of Lee
and .iddis * that fuch evidence Ihall not be received. The
evidence ftated, is not to explain-the contra&, but to prove a
new and a different one : And if fuch an offer as is mentioned
created any legal obligation, a different fuit -rnuft be brought to
saforpe it. The witnefs, therefore, muft be reje&ed.
The plaintiff thereupon fuffered a !nonfuit.

INGRAHAM,

Indorfee v. GIBBs, et. al.

HIS was an affion brought on two Bills of Exchange j
and upon the trial the following fa&s appeared :--The
defendants were the confignees of Cornelius Scbenkbcfi of ZmJ7erdam, who had fent a confiderable quantity of goods to them,
to be fold on his own rifque and account, with orders "to remit the proceeds in good bills of exchange, or in merchandize,
as they fiould think beft." The confignment being fold, and.
the defendants having remittances to-make on account of other
purchafed a bill from Ba§- & Soyer, (a commercial
agencies,
houfe of Philadelpbia, at that time in perfe&t credit) drawn on
V'an Brehiien EV Sons of Wimferdam, for 7,500 guilders, which

they tranfmitted"to R. H. Portener, their correfpoxdent at'that
Place, and appropriated the amount-in the following manner;
Guild. Sti%.
29o 16
ortener,
To
Wbndenlurg, 51 o io
250
Vandergoon,
Schenkhou/e, 1544 10
At
The'Defendants, 3000
being the balance,
I Dalt. "zl. Bat fee, likcwifc, Dali a67, Rollingswortb aer'

s Qgice,

