SuPREME COURT oF PMLIylvania.
it was ftrongly urged, that it did not Fe with third perfons to 1791.
enquire into, or difpute, the regularity of the proceedings under &
a commiffion of bankruptcy.
The Court charged the Jury, in favor of the defendants, on
the two latt points; but left it to them to determine, whether
the firft was, or was not, an a& of bankruptcy ; inclining to
think that it was : And the plaintiffs were defired to move
for a new trial, if they doubted the direction of the Court.
A verdict being found for the defendants, the motion was
made and argued in 7uly laft, by Lewis, Tilghrnan, and -4. fotris for the plaintiffs, and by Ingerfoll, Seijeant and Rawle, for
the defendants. At the prefent Term, the unanimous opinion
of the Court was delivered io the following effe&.
BY THE CouRT:-After ftating the preceeding tranfactions, and the feveral points made, the Court left it to the Jury,
to determine on the firft point, whether the deed made by 7'Virtz
to one of his children, was, or was not, an aEt of bankruptcy:
We are inclined to think it was.
As to the fecond point, we are of opinion, that this was
not a fufficient debt to fupport the commiifion. No affion
of debt would lie upon this writing alone. It is no extinguifhment, nor fatisfa~tion. An Izfrmul computafent, indeed, would
lie; but that is a derivative a~ion, recurring to the original account, which is prior to paffing the a tof Affembly.
As to the third point made by defendants' counfel, we are
fatisfied, that it is competerit to third perfons, where their intereft is affeCted, to take advantage of the irregularity of the
Befides the numerqus cafes cited in Pleafants verfus
proceedings.
.Afcng, r Dal. Rep. 3 g0 . and that cafe itfelf, fee 2 Burr. 932.
Whether a creditor, who has received a dividend, can obje6t to
the commiffion, we will not fay ; but Dortor Moore, who never
did receive a dividend, certainly may obje& to it.
Let the rule for a new trial be diftcharged.
SCOTT

erefus

CROSDALE.

HIS was an aCtion of Dower, brought in BucksrCounty,
againft the defendant, who had purchafed lands, fold by
the fheriff under a judgment obtained on a &cireFaciason a mortgage. The mortgage was executed by the hulband, but the
plaintiff (his widow) was no party to it: And on the trial Juftice ATLEE referved the point, whether the wife's dower was
bound by the mortgage ?
Serjeant, for the plaintiff, contended that there was a diftircfrm as to the effet of a fale under a FL Fa. and a Levari Fac€as.

128

Cst

ruled and adjudged ih the

1791. cias. 'That, in the latter care, the a& (I Vol;DaII. Edit.p. 7 . 2.)
%
directs that no greater eftate fhall be conveyed than the lands
are mortgaged for : And in this cafe the woman had not done
any a6t to bar her eftate in the lands. He added that in iVewJerfey, where the ait of Affembly was very fimilar, the wife
was always held to be entitled to dower.
TWilcock, after ffating that at Chber, in the cafe- of eHowell
veifu Laycock, it was determined that a fale by an Executor, to
whom lands were devifed for the payment of debts, barred the
widow's dower, would hive proceeded; but,
BY THE CoURT:-The pbint has been too long fettled to be
ilirred now ; and judgment muft be for the defendant.
THoMPsoN verfus THoMPs.ox,
L

IBEL for a divorce a menfa et

toro, charging the dejfeindant with various a~ts of cruelty-,
and indignities, that

rendered
Libellant's fituation
Defendant
t~/ando, &c.thepleadedthat
probefore theinfupportable.
filing of the faid
libel, his wife
•(the libellant) had feparated herfeif from him, and that "he had
offered to receive and cohabit with her again, and ufe her as at
good hufland ought to do." To'this plea the defendant dlemurred. Tilghman, in fupport of it, conitended, that by the a&t of
Aflembly " concerning Divorces arnd Alimony"(2 VIol. Dall.Edit.
p. 38:I.) the Court were obliged either to fufpend, or to dif'charge,
any fentence, feparating hufband and wife, from bed and board,
whenever the hulband fhould make the offer, thai was fluted in the
anfwer : And that if this was a good reafon to annul a fentence,
afortiori it is afuflicienit anfwer to the complaint of this libel
This too, he added, was agreeable to the pra~tice of the fpiritual Court in England. 2'reced. Chanc. 495. .Angiero. A4ngier :
Where, itris faid, that Alimony continued nio longer than till the
i e
•parties became reconciled, and confented to cohabit.
Serjeant, for the libellant, infifted, that the Court had a difcretion to fufpeftd, or annul, the fentence, as the circunitances,
under wvhich the poffer fhould 'be made, required ; or to refufe
to do either : And that, at all events, fuch an offer-as was fiated
in the libel, made before fentence, could not prevent the jurifdi~tion of the Court, or a feparation, where fuch extreme cruelty was ftated to hav been ufed by the hulhand.
'IS CouRT inclined to think, that even after fentenee, the
mere offr of thehufband would not, in all cafes, be a caufe for
fufpending it; and that the a&t left them a difcretion, upon t~
offer being mad; to hear the wife, and to continue the fentenc&

