CIRCUrT CoURT, Pennfykania Diftri&.
:797:
SYMEs's Leffee verfus InviE,

T

HE Defendant's Counfcl rhoved to put off the' trial of
this caufe (which'was marked for the 2eth-of April)
upon an affidavit fetting forth, cc that A. B. a material witnefs,
who lived at Carliyte, in Pehnfylvania, (at a diffance of more
than ioo miles from Philadelphia) was abfent ; and that he bad
been ick fome time ago, but had promifed the Defendant to
attend at the trial."
Lee, Ingerfoll, and Rawle obje&ed to the poftponemen%, becatife it -was in the Defdndant's power, by virtue of the A& of
Congrefs (t Vol. Swift's Edit, p. 68.f. 30) to have taken the
Nor is it fufficient ir
depofition of the witnefs de bene Se.
every cafe to make a formal affdavit; the Court will enquire
fo far into the teftiniony, which the witnefs could give, as to
fatisfy themfelves, that the reafon affigned for a poftponement
is not merely colorable ; and if the fa~ts, in the prefent inftance,
are material, there can be no injury from allowing the court to
hear and decide on them. There can be lefs occalion, likewife,
for indulging fuch motions in eje&ments, than other fuits, as
the judgment is not conclutive.
.. 7ilghman and Lewis, in fupport of the motion, Rated,
that the caufe had never yet been pat off at the requefl of the
Defendant; and they urged the fuperior importance of vivd
vo:e teftimony, as a fufficient reafon for declining to take the
depofitio. of the witnefs de tne e, undler the: A& of Congrefs;
whofe provifions, in this refpett, indeed, they regarded as abhorrent to the principles of -natural jufice.
PETERS, 7ujflice. If any delay had heretofore occurred by
the Defendant's condu&t, I fhould have been difpofed to have
held him, ftridly, to the performance of every thing, b, which
it was in his power to- procure the teftimony of the witiefs.
The A6t of Congrefs, however, .appears to be rather harfh ;
and if no excufe, like the pretent, could be admitted, it would
be declaring, in effe , that whenever witneffes refided more
than ioo miles from the court, their depofitions mutt be, indif.penfably, taken.
.uflice. It is not a fufficient reafon for forcing
IREDMLL,
this caufe to a trial, in the abfence of a material witnefs, that
the At of Congrefs authorifed his depofiticn to be ta!'en.
Courts of Juftice have always been defirous to obtaii vivd voe
teftimony, where it was pra6ticable ; and even the plaintiff himfelf has given a proof of his fenfe of its fuperior eftimation, bybringing his witneffes for this very trial from Richinmnd in Firgina, though he was equally entitled to take their dpofitionw.
Th;

384

Csts ruled'and adjudged in die

1798. The teftimony may be of fuch a nature, as not to admit of all
0
its force being redticed to the form of a depofition.
With refpe&t to a difclofure of the fatls, which depend on
the teftimony of the witnefs, we think that it is not regularly
in our power to compel it; and, even if we had the power, it
might be effentially wrong, in many cafes, to exercife it.
Nor, do I think, that, becaufe this is a cafe of ejedment,
the Court fhould be lefs fcrupulous in ordering the trial to proceed: for, it muft be recollefted, that the Defendant is, at prefent, in poffieffion of the premifes, but will be evi~ted, if the
caufe is decided againft him.
Upon the whole, the Court cannot, perhaps; lay down a general rule, for the continuance of caufes ; but muff, under
the circumftances of each cafe, take care that injuftice is not
done, either by precipitate trials, or wanton delays. In the
prefent inftance, there appears to be a fair groufid for the poftponement 3 and, therefore,
Let the caufe be continued,

pril Term, x 7 9S,

Rrefent, CHAsE and PETERS, .7t/fiice4

The VzTE)D STATES verfS WORR!Lt.

HE defendant was charged with an attempt to bribe
Tench Coxe, the Commiffioner of the ,Revenmie; and the
inditment, containing two counts, fet foith the cafe as follows:
"The Grand Inqueft of the UnitedStates of .merica, for the
Penqfylvania Diflri&t, upon their refpeftive oaths -and affirmations do prefent-That whereas on the 13 th day of May I79n,
it was enadted by the Senate and Houfe of Reprefentatives of
the United States of America, in- Congrefs affenibled; "'that as
foon as the jurifdiftion of fo much of the headland of Cape.
Hatteras, in the_&tate of .NorthCarolina, as the Prefident'of the.

"United Statts fhall deem fuffiicient and moft proper for the convenience

