2

CAsgg

ruled and adjudged in thle

1795. to employ all the legitimate means of coercion in his power, fhv

,Y"-' fecuring and r eftoring the negro to the fervice of his owner,
•whitherfoever he might be afterwards carried.
Verdi&t, NOT GUILTY.

Rr.sPUBLICA verfus HONEMAN.

T

HIS was a writ of error to remove the proceedings in the
cafe of a convi&ion for murder, -at a Court of Oyer and
Y-erminer, and general goal delivery, held in Alegbeny County.
On the return of the Record the defendant affigned the Gene.
ral Errors, and the Attorney General replied, in nullo eflerratum. The indifrnent was fet forth in the following words
c Altlegheny County,

f.

THE grand inqueft for the County of Allegheny aforefaid
-upon their oaths, and folemn affirmations, refpe&ively, do prefent that James Honeyman late of th' Town of Pity/burg-, in the
County of 4llegheny, labourer, not having the fear of God before his eyes, but being moved and feduced by the inftigation
of the Devil, on the Twenty-Third Day'of Novenber in the
Year of Our Lord One Thoufand Seven Hundred and NinetyThree, at the Town of Pity/burg, in the County aforefaid in
and upon one Be;ijamin Ajkins, in the peace of God, and of the
Commonwealth of Pentifylvania, then and there being, feloni.
oufly, wilfully and of his malice aforethought, did make an affault; and that the faid Yames Honeyman, with both the handr
and feet of him thefaid Yames Honeynan, in and pon, the body
of him the faid Benjamn AJkins, did flrike, kick and brufe, and'
knock to the ground; giving to the faid Benjamin 4/kins, then and
there, with the hands and feet of him, thiefaid 7ames Honeyman,
by the firking, kicking and knocking to the ground of the laid
Benjamin 4Jkins, feveral mortal bruifes, of which mortal bruifes

the aforefaid Benjamin Afjkin, then and there, inflantly died;
And fo the jurors aforefaid, upon their oaths and folemn affrmations aforefaid, refpeaively, do fay that the faid JamesHoneyman,
the faid Benjamin A4jkins, then and there, in manner Pnd form
aforefaid, feloniotfly, wilfuly and of his malice aforethought,
did kill and murder, againft the peace and dignity of.the Commonwealth of Pennylvania, &c."

Dallas, for the defendant, made two exceptions: if. That
the indiCtmcnt does not ftate the grand inqueft to be held c in
;Lnd for the Commonwealth of Penn5'tvania;" but only -for the
County of Allegheny, which may be out of the jurifdi&'ion of
thie 8tate i and, ;d. That, although the a/1auftis flated to have
bleen

&tPItEMP,CoVTt~ OF

Pennj Avantzr.

been done felonioufly, &c. yet the technical and efrential epithers
are not applied to the lriking, kicking, bru/iing and knocking,
which muff have been the efficient caufe of the death of the perfkn killed, and not the a/fault.
The Attorney General, Ingerfoll, obferved, that he did not
confider the firft exception material ; but he declined any argument on the fubje&, as he was convinced the fecond exception
nuft be fatal.
BY THE COURT :-Let thejudgmentbe reverfed.*

BURRALL

verfus Du BLOIS.

T

NIS cajufe was tried and a general verdi& given for the
plaintiff, on the I ith of September. On the.isth of September, Lewis made a motion, in arreft of judgment, becaufe,
a general verdi& was taken, and the afion, clearly, would only
be maintained on one of the counts in the declaration.
Dallascontended, that the motion was made too late, and
cited 3 T-. Rep. 623. Doug.
446. 1 T. Rep. 227. 4 Burr.
2526. 2 Woodefon 243, to fhew, in the computation of.time,
when the day on which an a& is done, fhall be deemed inclufive.
He, alfo, moved to be allowed to enter the verdi& on the firil
count in the declaration, agreeably to the authority in 4 Burr'.
1235.
BY THE COURT :-The day on which the verdit was given
fhould be reckoned inclufive ; and, therefore, the motion in
araeft of judgment has been made too late.
'But we haveno doubt, that it is in our power to grant the
plaintiffpermiffion to enter the verdit on the proper count;
and that it ought, in this cafe, to be granted.
The motion in arreft of judgment was accordingly difmiffeds
and the verdiat entered on the firft couint.t
PNN'S

This indictment was tried fhortly before the act paffed (3 JOtLDall. Edit.) by which the crime was divided intomurder
of the first degree, punifhable by death; and murder of the lecond
degrce, piinilhable by imprifonment at hard labour. Froin the facts
reported by the judge, who prefided on the trial, Honevrnan's offence

p.

.

would clearly have fallen under the latter division.

-

"' The Court waited $till the laft hour of the Term for the defendants' counfel, whu was indifpofed ; but Laid, that in a cafe im
which they were fo perledtly fatisfiod, they could not keep it longer
under advifement.,

1795.!

