74

CAsEs itled ann adjudgea in

.1790.PIoulke,as co-partners were indebted, and the faid Curtis C7a4'y

t

Owen 'ones,.Samuel Ple? ants, 7ofeph "Soiewt'and Willinig & Tay-.
for, at the time of the faid attachment being laid in their hands
refpedively, ,rere.indbted, in large fums of money to Sandjfortb
Streadield, as furviving partner of Tbomas Fludyer,Samuel Ma#&
and Giles Hudfon.
", The debt ,demanded' by the plaintiff, in this attacbment,"
was originally due to him, from Giles Hudfon, deceafed, in his.
life time, in his private and feparate right, and a judgment wds
recoverid in the Court of King's Bench, at Wejrniiffler, in En.
gland, for the fame, bythe plaintiff againA the prefent defendants,
as executors of the.faid Giles Hudfon, upon which judgment the
faid plaintiff has declared in an a6tion of trefpafs on the cafe,
in the faid attaehment."
'The motion to diffolve the attachmentwas made on behalf of
Sandjforth.Straifield, the furviving partner of Hudfon, 2nd ftt. ported upon two grounds :-xift. That a foreign attachment
will rot lie agaihft executors ; and, 2dly. That the partnerfhip
credits of Stra4/ieid & Hud[9n, cannot be attached to anfwer the
feparate debt of Hufon.
On the 3 oth of Oober, THE PRESIDEN4T delivered the opiniofi of the ,Court in favor of the farviving partner upon both
points ; and accordingly the rule was made abfolute.
BRAILEY Verfus" MILLER.

T

HIS adion was brought to recoyer a debt exceeding io,
but, upon being referred, the debt was reduced by a fet
off, and the report of the referees was for no more than C8.. As
the plaintiff had not previoufly filed an affidavit of his belief, that
the fium due exceeded I1o, (agrdtably to the provifion'of-the
;arch,
1745.) Bdnkfou, conx3 th fe~ion of the aa of the if7
tended, tat he was entitled t6 recover cofts. I Pol. Dall. Edit.
I. 308. 1 Vol. p. 364..
Hwel, for the plaintiff, iaid, that if- this .a6tion could not
have been brought before a Juftice of the 1?eace,- his client was
of courfe, entitled to cofts. '.The deinand, in fac, amounted to
£C2o, -although it was liable to a defalcation- and it could not
be known whether the defendant would eIed to fet off'his debt
in the prefent adion, or to make -it the foundation of a feparate
fait. If the defendant had been fued before a Juftice, and decliiwd making a'fet off, the plaintiff could not bring Iis debt
within the-Juftice's jurifdi&ion, and muft, confequently, have
been non-fuited there ; aid it would be an intolerable grie'ance,
to' fubjeC him to cofts here, merely becaufe his adverfary, after
tilt

Philadelphia CouRT OF COMMON PLEAS.
the ation was inifituted, determined to take advantage of the 1790.
defalcation. The a& of Affembly meant only to impote colts on '.s'the plaintiff ; where the defendant a6tually owed no more than
Cio, at the 'time of bringing the a6tion ; which was net the cafe
before the Court. i Vall. Rep. 308.
On the x itk of September, the Prefident delivered the opinion
of the Court.
SHIPPEN, Prefident: The queftion to be decided is, which
of the parties fhall pay the coils, the plaintiff having recovered
lefs than ten pounds. The ,C a&t provides, that where the perfon fuing fhall obtain a verdiat or judgment for debt and damages, which, without colts of fuitThall not amount to more than
/,5. (not having filed an oath or affirmation, before the iifuing
of the writ, that he truly believed the debt due, or damage fuftained, exceeded that fum) le fhall not recover any colts. Tile
a&t extending the jurifdition of Jultices to cafes not exceeding'
i o refers to all the provifions of the preceeding law.
The intent of the Legiflature was to prevent the bringing actions in this Court, for debts within the cognizance of the Juftices, by impofing the payment of colts on the plaintiff, unlefs
he had previoufly filed an affidavit, that he believed his demand
exceeded the fpecified fum. This provifion, however, muff be
confined to the plaintiff's own demand, and not extended to
the cafe of fet-offs, which the defendant may, or may not, at
his pleafure, defalc. The demand in the prefent cafe, was
oftenfibly abovelio ; though it was in the power of the defrndant either to reduceit, or.not, by fetting up his counter
claim. The plaintiff could not, therefore, fue before a juftice,
becaufe the defendant might there lie-by ; and if afterwards
he was liable to be defeated in the Common Pleas, he would,
in fa&-, be punifhed in cofts, for reforting to the only Court,
in which his aftion could be maintained.
Wherever, therefore, an action is brought for a debt above
£ o,-and tie amount isreduced below that fum, by a fet off, we
ihink the plaintiff ought not to be charged with' the cofs.
Judgment for plaintiffs with colts.
IHOWELL, et a. vefus WOOLrFORT.-

TN this cafe the fherift had levied on a houfe and lot by virtue

j f a Fi. Fa. ; and an inqueft was held, which declared the
re;nts of the eftate fufficient to pay the debt in feven years :,but
ii the return to the Fi. Pa. it was ftated, that the defendant had
only a life.eftate in the premifes. i State Laws. p." 6. 49. So.
, On a motion made by S. Levy, to quaflithe inqueft, th point
fubniitted to the confideration of the Court, was, Whether an
ivqueft ought to hav been, held on a liffe efat¢c, under he pro4z.
itI6U

