SUPRhmE CouRT o Pennflvana.
,
Wilcocks now moved to fet afide the non-fuit, and to permit 1792 .
the caufe to be tried, on an affidavit of Evan Owen, in which '-r
,t was fet forth, that the deponent was, in faa, landlord of
the premifes in difpute, and condu&ed the defence ; that he
had no notice of the trial ; that he had been obliged to attend
the argument-4f another caufe'at Philadelphia, about the fame
tifhc ; and thai he did not previoufly know of the holding of a
Court of N/it Prius in Northumberland. But,
By 'THE COURT :-Notice of trial was given to the defendant in the caufe ; and the non-fuit has beeuregularly entered.
It was not neceffary to give notice to Evan Owen : Fcr, wherever a landlord means to take defence, he ought to make himfelf a party on the record.
The rule refufed.

March Term, 1792.

BARR Verfus CRAIG.*

TIE circumftances

of this cafe were as follow : Henry
Banks, of "Firginia,wifhing to remit a fum of money to
anes:Barr, ihe plaintiff, requefted the -defendant (then in
Virginia, and to whom Baank was'alfo indebted, in partnerfhip with Preefon Boudoin) to take a charge of an order for
T

£300 on

- Caldwell, of Philadelphia, upon the terms
Ueae

fpecified-in the fubjoined receipt, which the defendant gave
upon the occafion.
- Received, Richmond, 2:ft Janudry, 1783, of Henry Banks
for
If an ojcder of Daniel Clarke, Efq. on Meafe & Caldwell,
c the fum of £8oo Virginia currency, on an infurance policy
€ of the fchooner General Wayne';: which I promife to return,
" him in ten weeks, or to account with Preefon Beudoin; for
r arr of Philadelphia, for the other."
one half, and 7anies
" Yames Craig, Sen'r."
Signed,
By virtue of this order the defendant, on the 4 th of J7une,
I 784; received k'771 7 o ; and the prefent a&ion was brought
to
* Msi Prius, before the Cuxrj' jusTrer SxipCN a.id BaRDFo ,
finrtice:.

152
1792.

'CAsEs ruled and adjudged in'the

to recover one half of that fur, with intcreit, as money had
and received to the ife of the plaintiff B ut, befides a gene.
ral count for that purpofe, the declaration contained a fpecial
count, fetting forth the particulars of the cafe, the order, and
the receipt of the money. It, likewife, appeared,. that the
plaintiff having fued Henry Banks, 8tandh Borde became, his

bail, and as a means of indemnifying Torde, Banks depofited
with him a certificate for Sooo dollars. In relation to that action, an agreement was afterwards made, on the 24 th of O0ober, 1789, between Philip Barber, the attorney in fa& of Henry Banks, (who had alfo an affignment) and the plaintifF to this
effe& ;-" that judgment fhould be entered in favor of the
plaintiff for the whole amount of the debt ; but that he fhould
only receive [5oo ; that he fhould thereupon difcharge Forde
from his obligation as bail ; and, as to the refidue of his demand, he fhould wait the iffue of a fuit againft the defendant,
Craig, and divide whatever might be recovered from him, with
P. Barber, Banks's attorney." This agreement was made after Barr's aitorney had difco" red, that the caufe of afion was
a joint debt due to Yames and Robert Barr, though the adtion
was inftituted in the name of flanes Barr only. But judgment was, accordingly, confeffed in April Term, 1790, for
the whole fum claimed by Barr, to wit, /r3 58 17 8 ; a Ca.
8a. thereupon iffued ; and Forde, the fpccial bail, having then
fola the certificate depofited with him by Bank, paid the full
amQiint of the judgment, with intereft and coffs, to the fherifF, referving the balance to anfwer fome other claim-againlt
Bankr; the fheriff on the

3

1ft of July,

1792,

paid it over to

the plaintiff, Barr: But Barr, on the fame day, after deduting [Soo, paid the balance, C887 i. 2 to P. Barber, in
compliance with the term's of the -greement, on which the
judgmenthad been confeffied. It further appeared, that Banks
k:"
Boudoin were indebted to Craig, in a fum exceeding the amount
received under the order upon Meafe & Caldwell; and that in
September Term, 1788, Craig had iffued a foreign attachment
againft Banks & Boudoin, which was ferved upon Forde, as garnifhee; and inwhich judgment had been obtained, but no S'ir,
Fatias had iffued.

Thd caufe was tried, oithc general jffua,
at the Nfir Prius
in March, 1792, before THE CHIIEF JUs-riCs, SHIPP-EN, and
BRArorORD, 7tigices, ; when Z_ Levy and Ingerfoll argued."

for the plaitiff;' Rando7ph and Lewis, for the defendant.
The defence refted on three propofitions: ift. That Henry
Banks was to be confidered as the perfon really entitled to receive
the money: 2d. That the defendant had a right to retain it in
fatisfaiion of the judgment on the foreign nttachrent x
And 3 a. That the a6ion was not fupported by the evidence .inl

SUPREME COURnT OP Pennfylvatzia

.t

In'as-much is the only proof of the plaintiff's intereft is the

receipt given by the defendant for the order on .Alqfe & Cald-

'wvell, which is not a&ually let forth in the fpecial count ; and
affording an a&ion of a higher nature, is no evidence oh the
general count for money had and received.- Bull. N. P. 1451
who was not z
thisE.aftion,
bringCro.
any perfonxog.
131. "Nor
369,
a]ftrnjz.nit.
to thecould
plirty
The plaintifs counfel, on te other handi contended, ift.
That the money received by Craig, was the money of Barr ;
and the moment it was received, it was held in tfuit for Barr'r
life: to retain it, is contrary to Craigs own promife, and to
the principles of equity ; and a promife to account, is tanta.fp. 23. 1 Stra. 264. 626;
mount to a promife to pay.
2d. That a partnerfhip debt cannot be fet off againtf a feparate
debt ; and, therefore, as Craig was the creditor of Bank, and
Boudoin, he could not difcount his demand from the feparate
property of Banks; which was the prefent cafe. 3 d. That
there was nothing collufive or fradulent between Banks and
Barr, in relation to the judgment. The' latter, finding that
his ation was erroneoufly inf lituted, was obliged to make ufd
of fome addrefs even to fecure immediate payment of a part of an
honeft debt ; but the -right and the remedy for the balance;
were clearly left open, 4 th. That the aEtion is well brought,
andought to be fuftained: relv. 23..4. r Vent. 318. 332.
1269. L,
Bull. 133. Doug. 139" Cowp. 443. .2 B!. Re
Ray.

303.*

The CHx ViJUsTIcE delivered the following charge to tht
Jury, after ftating the evidence on both ides 'of the -caufe.
MKEAN, Chief fuflice:-The plaintiffhad, unqueftionably,
a good caufe of aion, at the time of inifituting his fait But,
it appears that at that time alfo, the defendant had a good c-iufi
of affion againft Ilenry Banks ; and, accordingly, attached cerl
tain monies belonging to Baiks, in the hands of JPorde, who
was the fpecial bail of Banks, in another affion, brought againfE
him by James .6arr, the prefent plaintiff. Judgment being
entered, and a Ca. Sa. iffued in tk-s laft mentioned adtions
the bail became liable for the debt ; vind, accordingly, we find,
that. Forde paid the amount, with colts, to the fheriff; who
paid it over to the plaintif, and took a receipt in full. This)
then, appears to be complete fatlsfaCion,; and the plaintiff ap.
parently ought nevet to recover more'even from Banks i unlefsI
perhaps, the cols accrued in the a~tion now trying, before the
piyment by Forde in the other a&ibn ; as Ii. the cafe of fevertal fuit: againft the drawer and indorfors of the fame promiflo:'y notC.
BY rnF. Cournl :-The form of tlie action neett net be LaImurodby 'thr rlaintiff's coanfel.

z79

154
1792.
I

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

But, after fuch proceedings, what reafonable ground can be
alledged, ° wh'y Barr fhould recover the money in queftion from
Craig, to whom Batiks wasjuftly indebted ? It is faid, that
the arrangement permitted Barrto take no more than )'5oo out
of the depofit in Forde'?s hands: But, furely, the a& of Barrcannot prejudice the right of Craig ; and Craig, by virtue of
the foreign attachment, was entitled to all the property belonging to Banks in Forde'shands, beyond what was neceffary to
fatisfy the judgment for which Forde was bound, and his own
bona fide claim. Craig had a lien upon the whole money: It
was, in effe&, his wn. Since, therefore, Barr took the whole
amount out of Forde'shands by virtue of his judgment, and fo
difcharged Forde from his obligation as garnifhee in Craig's Foreign attachment, it is confonant with eirery principle of law
and equity, that the receipt of Barr fhould avail Craig, as a
ftill difcharge from the prefent demand. Either Barr received
all the money for himfelf, or he did not: In the former care,
this aaion cannot be fapported ; and in the latter he has withdrawn, under colour of his judgment, a portion of Craig's
funds, for which he muff be anfwe. ble, in an independent
fuit ; or the amount may be fet off againft the prefent demand.
I impute no fraud to the plaintiff; but his fecret agreement with
Barber, however honeff, cannot affet the defendant. It appears, indeed, that four creditors were ftriving, with legal vigilance, to obtain a legal advantage ; and the only queftion is,
who has fucceeded ? In the opinion of the Court, the plaint-ff mull, on this occafiQn, be confidered as having received the
whole debt that was due to him from Baks ; and the original
confideration of the debt, on account of which the order was
given, is extinguiflied in the judginent.
BRADFORD,
io/iice ; If the plaintiff recovers, I think it muft
be upon the count for meney had and received: And it appears to me, that the plaintiff had a good caufe of a6ion at the
'commencement of the filt. le received this money under an
engagement to apply it to xhe payment of tme debt due to Barr.
"lie was merely a truftee ; and while -the debt was unfatisfied,
the intereff continued. But, I conceive, that as foon at Bars
demand is extinguiffied the truft ceafes : And in fuch cafe,Barr,
in his -own name and for hisown ufe, has no longer a demand
on this money. This is an equitable a&ion ; the defendant under the general Wifhe may go into all the equity of the cafe ; and
unlefs it appears, that he cannot inconfcience and equity retain
the money, unlefs, exv equo et brno, 'he is bound to refund it ;
the verdit muff be for him. Confidering that Banks is infolvent,
and that he is indebted to Craig, I cannot fay that it would be
unconfcionable to re;ain this money after Barrs debt'is. fatisfeNd.,

NOW,

SUPREME COURT Or

PellyfIvan;a.

155

Now, it appears, that all Barr's demands againit Banks 1792.
were liquidated and included-in the judgement confeffed in 790;,
that judgment is fatisfied, and it is legally difcharged on record : The whole amount of the debt and colts was a6luzlly
paid into Barr's hands.
But, it is faid, this judgment was, by a previous agreement,
to operate in Barr's favour, to the amount of no more than
goo; the balance was paid to Banks's attorney ; and, therefore, Banks is ftill indebted to Barr. This may be true between the parties ; but how does it operate as between Forde
and Craig? For, the law will not fuffer Barr to give this tranf.
a2tion one operation upon Craig, as to himfelf ; and another as
to Forde. Here the money in forde's hands was attached, and
judgment obtained. If Craigproceed* againft Forde, the garnifhee, Forde, will fhew the judgment at Barr's fuit, and that he
was legally compelled to pay above £04oo, by virtue of that
proceeding. This will be an anfwer to Craig'sdemand : And
why ? Becaufe it is a payment and difcharge of a regular judg.
ment. Now, if the garnifhee can hold up this to Craigas a real
fatisfa&ion and payment of a juft debt, Craig can hold it up
as fuch to Barr. No man will be allowed to blow hot and cold.
If Barr received this money, on account of his judgment, he
had a right fo to do ; but then his debt is extinguiffied. If he
did not receive it on this account, then he had no right to it at
all ; £887, on which Craig had a lien, was wrongfully received; and Craig may confider-it as money received to his ufe,
and fet it off- in this affion. Suppofe Craighad fued Barrfor
this 087, how could he defend himfelf ? By infifting that
there was a bcna fide debt due from Banks; and that he received it in payment- and difcharge of the judgmeht. Then, in
this adfion, he flall not be allowed to deny, what he muft
affirm in that. If only £5oo had bcen all that was due to Barr,
and yet, for the purpofe of prote&ing the money from the attachment, a judgment, for £I,3oo had been confeffied and the
money received, I think Craig could have recovered it from.
Barr; and yet, has the cafe, as the plaintiff repre fents, this vcry
afpeCt. Here is an affion, in whiich judgment could never
have been recovered ;judgment is confeffed for £1,30o ; though
k5oo is really to be paid to Barr, the refidue is withdrawn
from Craig, and paid to Banks. Upon the whole, the plaintiff
is reduced to thi4 dilemma : Either it is a full payment and difcharge of his debt ; or he has unconfcionably received £887, on
which Craig had a lien, and for which he is accountable to
Wim. In the firt cafe, his caufe of a6tion is extinguifhed ; in
U2

the

CASES riled and adjudged in the

256

T192. the latter, Craig's demand againft Bari-, exceeds Bar,-i
Sdemand againft him. In either cafe, the defendant ought to
have a verdid.
VE.RDICT
for the Defendant.
DurFF:LD

WVrf'Us STILLEV

V" HIS was an afion for mefne profits, after a recovery in
J_ ejefment. It appeared, that fubfequent to that recoire.
-ry, the plaintiff had conveyed the fee fimple of the premifes
to the defendant, in the ufual manner, by deed of bargain and
fale, with a fpecial warranty : And two queftions were made
for the opinion of the Court-ift. Whether, after the conveyance in fee fimple, the plaintiff could maintain this afion ?
-2d. Whether the deed was, not, in law, a releafe of the mefne
profits ?
For the defendant were cited, Freem. 365. Zro. Zfs. 6g.
369. 359
8 Co. 154. a Litt. 508. But,
BY THE IZ.URT :-The cafe is clearly with the plaintiff.

Let there be
Judgment accordingly,'
WENN veifus ADAMS.

7jI-VHIS was an afion of a~iffit, brought in the year 179TJ The defeudant pleaded non-aJumpf , iffue was thereupon
joined ; and in ,fanuary, 1792, the defendant obtained a rule
for trial or non pros, wit notice at bar.
HeajAt now moved that the rule be made abfolute. But .Morris,
for the defendant, urged, that as no declaration had been filed,
the caufe was not at Jte, according to the direaions of th
ai of 1766.
But, BY THE COURT :-The declaration muft ,certainly be
filed before trial : And, when the plaintiff accepts a plea, it is an
engagement that this fhall be done ; and a waiver by the defendant of any advantage from thi omiflion. Iftheobje&ionhadany
wveighlt, it ought to have been made when the rule was obtain,
fd at the laft Term. ,As the plaintifftlhen fubmitted to the rule,
be ihall not now elude its operation.
judgment pf non-fuit.
AUSTITT

4

1RIroRD,

-ustice : H-aving been counfel for tle plainiff,

&Iy uo opinion in the deciion of the Qufe.

