2CAsvsi ruled ,and -adjudged in the

6

1 790. fhews that the referehce was not to a matter of common converfation, but to an a& committed before a Juftice of the Peace,
Ly.
in relation to a caufe aC ually depending.
Generally fpeaking, indeed, afions of flander, founded on
triffling caufes, to gratify a petulant and quarrelfome difpofiton, will not be encouraged by the Court : But, when the reputation, trade, or profeffion, of a citizen it really affe&ed, for
the fake of doing juftice to the deareft interefts of individuals,
as well afor the fake of preferving public order and tranquillity,
rvery appeal to the tribunals of our country ought to be libe-

rally fuftained.
Judgment for the Plaintiff.
PRIci, verfus RALSTO,

T

affignee of POLLARD, a Bankrupt.

HIS caufe came before the Court, on a cafe flated for

their opinion, in the following words: " On the 23 d day
of March, 1784, William. Price, the'plaintifffhipped and configned goods, by the Chry/ian, to Milliam Pollard, the bankrupt, one half for the account of the faid Wrilliam -Pollard;
and, at the fame.time, fhipped and configned other goods, by
the Prince of Liege, to the faid William P.ollard, for the fame
account. And on the i8th day of Mfay, following, the faid
9'ijlliam Price,flippe4 and configned other goods, by the John1,
to the faid Wiliam'Pollard,for the fame account ; and on the 2d
day of September, in the fame year, fhipped and configned, by
he George, to the faid William Pollard, other goods, for the
fame account ; and the faid William Price, on the 2d day of
December, 1785, fhipped and c9nfigned.othei&goods, to Meffrs.
Robert Duncan,jun. U- Co..of Philadelphia,being for and on ac'count of the'faid William Price. The faid Robert Duiean &
Company, on receipt of them, depofited the faid goods in the hands
of the laid William Pollard,for account of the faid Milliam Price.
Confiderable fales'of the abov6 mentioned goods, were made
from time to time, by the Laid William Pollard, and monies re'ceived, for the debts outftanding on account-of the flaid fales; the
faid Pollard,at different times previous to his becoming a bankrupt, as hereafter mentioned, took from fome of the debtors
bonds, payable to him, the laid William Pollard, and not expreffing his capacity of agent for. the faid Price. A commiffion of bankruptcy iffued, the 28td1 day of ane, 1787, againft
the faid William Pollard, and on the 29 th day of June, 787,
he' was declared a bankrupt. At the time he was fo declared a
bankrupt, he had no fpecie proceeding-from the faid fales in his
poffelioi, feparated.'aild diftinguiihed from fpecie belonging to
himfelf

Philadelpbia CouxT oF COMMON

PLEAS.

6f

Himfelf. The commiffioners of bankruptcy appointed the faid 1795.
Robert Raf7onj affignee. Part of the above feveral parceli of
goods, were fold by the faid William Pollard, previous to his
bankruptcy ; who, alfo previous to his faid bankruptcy, received
part of the money for which they were fold ; the debts due for
others of them were outftanding at faid time, and part of each of
the faid feveral parcels, at the time of the faid bankruptcy, were
in the hands of faid bankrupt, and were taken poffeflion of by
the faid Robert Rayfion, as affignee, and by him fold.
Query ift. Is not William Price entitled to a moiety of the
outft nding debts, not reduced to bond, or note, due from the
goods fhipped as aforefaid, on his, and faid William Pollard's
account, each onehalf ?
2d. Is he not entitled to a moiety of the- fales, made by
oi
aforefaid,
as
fhipped
goods,
faid
the
faid"Rbert Rafflon, of
faid William Price's and William Pollard's account, each one
half; which came to the faid Robert Ralfln's hands, as affignee,
and which he has fold fince ?
3 d. Is not the faid William Price entitled to the whole of
the outitanding debts, not reduced to bond or note, due for the
goods, fhipped to Meffrs. Robert Duncan, Jun. & Company, and
which were depofited with the fame William Pollard, and fold
by him previous to his bankruptcy ?
4 th. Is not the faid William Price, entitled to the whole of
the monies, proceeding from the fales of faid laft mentioned
goods, which were in William Pollard's hands at the bankruptcy, and which the faid Robert Ra/lom took as affignee and fold ?
gth. Is William Price,or is the affignee of William Pollard,
entitled to recover and receive the monies aforefaid, duebhpon
bond ,payable to William Pollard, without defcribing him as
agent, or attorney, for William Price ?"
Four 'of the queftions being voluntarily yielded to Price's
,claim, the fifth was argued in favour of the plaintiff, by Rawk,
and Todd ; and, in favour of the defendant, by Ingerfoll, and
Coxe. It turned principally on the comparative. meaning and
conftru&ion of the following fe6tions,in the ftatutes of 2 i.Jac.1.
19. and in the a& of Pennfylvania; for regulating bankruptcy.
And for that, it often falls out, that many perfons, before
they become bankrupts, do convey their goods to other men,
upon good confideration, yet flill do keep the fame, and are reputed the owners thereof, and difpofe of the fame, as their own :
Sec?. XI. Be it ena&ed, That, if at any time hereafter, any per-.
fon, or perfons, fihall become bankrupt, and, at fuch time as they
lhall fo become bankrupt, Thall, by the confent and permiffion
of the true owner and proprietary, have in their pofihffion) order
and difpofition, any goods or chattels, whereof they fhall be
reputed owners, and take upon them the fale, alienation, or difpotition

6z
1790.

Css ruled and adjudged in the

fition, as owners, that in every fuch cafe, the faid commifflionersi
or the greater part of them, fhall have power to fell and difpofe
the fame, to and for the benefit of the creditors, which fhall feek
relief by the faid commiflion, as fully as any other part of the
eftate of the bankrupt." 21 Jac. i. c. 19. f.i ii.
SAnd be it further ena&ed, &c. That, if any perfons fhall
become bankrupt, and, at fuch time; by confent of the owner have in their poffeffion and difpofition, any -goods whereof
thy flhall be reputed owners, and take upon therp the fale, or
difpofition, as owners, the commiffioners ihall have power to
fell the fame, for the benefit of the creditors, as fully as any other part of the eftate of the bankrupt."
Dall. Edit. "P.376. f- 20.

Penn. Laws 2 Vol.

For the defendant (whofe counfel opened the cale) two points
were made: ift. That by the bankrupt law of this State, all
the property of a bankrupt, whether in poffeffion," or in a~tion,
or of which he was reputed owner, at the time of the bankruptcy, vefts in the commiffioners and afri nees. 2dly. That even
if the law, thus Rated, might be deemed too ge ieral, and not
applicable to the cafe'of fa&ors, executors, &c. yet, where the
fpecific lien of the principal, upon goods configned on his account to a factor, is deftroyed by fale, or otherwife, he can only
come in for a dividend with the general creditors, upon the bankruptcy of the fartor.
.f. .Point. '"there is a material difference between the analogous claufe in the 2 1 jac. I. c. 19. f. ii.'and the 20. feaion
of the a& of PennJlvania. 2 Dal Edit. i. 37 o . 2 B!. Com.
485. For, the latter has no preamble to explain and mark its
meanuig, as the EnglM ftatute has, and, on the conftru&ion of
which, all fuch effe&s are excepted, from the fale of the bankrupes goods, as he held in auter droii. Thus 3 ,Burr. 1369,
Lord Mansfeld, proceeding doubtlefs on the ground of the preamble to the ftatute, fays, " if an executor becomes bankrdpt,
the commiffioners cannot feize the fpecific effe&s of his teffator ; not even in money,- which fpecifically can be diftinguifhed,
and afcertained to belong to the teflator, and not to the bankrupt l1imfef. -But the meaning of .the acl of Affembly, unqualified by any introduory explanation, mu reft entirel y on
the words of the feffion ; and thofe clea'rlv embrace all the property of the bankrupt, of w-hich he was a6Eual, or reputed,
oWtier at the time of his failure.
i 2d. Point. But Whatcv.r way that queftion may be decided,,
itwasurged, that the fpecific lienof the plointiffwas delftroyed
by the fale, before Pollardbecame a baikrupt.. Bull. M-. P
:
It is true, that if 'the, goods had remained in fpdcie, the plaintiffs.lien would have excluded the- claim ot the-general creditors'; 2 VPzk 5 85. 2 .4tk. 623. 1 './k. :34, ; but as they werc
a&uallv
-

Philadelp ha CouxT or CoM

XoPLEAs.

a&ually difpofed of3 the lien was loft; and even the fimple con- 1790.
tra& debt had been extinguifhed, by taking bonds from the o
vendee, not in the quality of Price's agent, but in Pollard's own
name. If a Facor fells Goods for a principal, he may bring
an a~tion in his own name, or the a~tion may be brought in the
name of the principal againft the vendee. i Atk. 248. • But
when the debt is reduced to a bond, the principle of the cafe no
longer operates ; the commercial relation of the parties is at an
end, and the a~tion can only be brought in the name of the
Obligee. In Geyer verfus Smith's Adminiftrator, it was held,
that the lien of a creditor upon the Inteftate's eftate was defiroy-.
ed by his taking a bond from the Adminiftrator ;. and that the
Obligor's calling himfeIf'Adminiftrator, in the bond, was furplufage; fince he could be chargeable only in his own right. i
Dall.Rep. 347. (n.) And in Cummings, verfus Lynn, the Court
adjudged that the affignment of Ceuy-que-truft, was not a valid
affignment, within the at of Affembly. i State Laws, Dal
Edit. p 107. 1 Dall Rep. 444- If a Faaor, dies infolvent,
the principal has no lien on the money, or effe~ts, in the hands
of the Adminiftrator, or Executor ; and it would be a devajiavit to fatisfy his claim in the firft infance, if there were debts
'
of a higher fiature. 13 Vin. Abr. tit. " .Fa.or.
" 5"
But an Attorney in fa&, or Agent, may releafe the debt.
i Dall. Rep. 449. And ifhe may releafe the debt in toto, he may
in part : Nor if he exceeds, in fo doing, his authority, will that
impair the rights 'of an innocent purchafer or releffee, though
it will render him perfonally liable to his principal ; as he would
be by giving further day of payment, .whether the contraCt, or
fecurity, was under feal, or not. Suppofe then, Pollardhad legally alfigned the bonds for a valuable confideration, would the
affignees ad infintum be mere Truftees for Price,though without
notice of his claim ? Or, independent of any bankruptcy, or
affignment, would it have beepi in the power of the Adminiftrator of the Obligor, to clafs Pollard's debt merely. with the
debts of fimple contraCt creditors ? To maintain the affirr'ative of either of thefe points (which indeed the adverfe counfel
muft endeavor to maintain) will be attended with inextricable
ermbarraffment and mifchief. Bankruptcy is equivalent to payment. Co-wp. 472. And the aflignees of a bankrupt, ftand precifely in the fhoes of the bankrupt. I.. 1tk. 233. - But what
ifall be deemed the rights of the bankrupt would, by the fuccefs
of the oppofite doCtrine, become matter of inceffant doubt and
litigation ; and the aflignees would, at every ftep, be entangled
in the diffitulty of underftanding, for whofe ufe his name has
been employed.
Forthe plaintjfs, it was ftated, that Pollardwas placed in two
fituations ;-in one -being half-part owner of certain fhipments ;
and

4C&SEs

ruled, and adjudged in the

t79o. and in the other being merely the Faeor" of hipments, made
originally to Robert Duncan & Co. on the fole account of Prici,
Y
the plaintiffi, but delivered over by them to Pollard, on the fame
account : And it was contended, ift. That if the joint Ihip'nients remained in fpecie, or, if the goods were fold, but no
*money paid, or bonds or notes taken for the value, fo.that the
property could be fpecifically traced, Price was entitled to his.
moiety :-And, 2dly. That Price was entitled to .the whole of
the goods, or theirproceeds, in the cafe of the ihipments made
for his fole ufe. But confidering the fubje& in the order purfued by the defendant's Counfel,
On.tbe rfl.point, it was obferved, that the refemblance between the ftatute of games ift. and the a& of Affembly, is fob
firong, that the latter may almoft be faid to be a copy of the former. In both, it vwas obvioufly the defign of the Legiflature, to
transfer the a&uaL property of the bankrupt, and nothing more,
to the g.eneral benefit of his.creditors ; "unlefs, indeed, in the cafe
of - a fale made by the bankrupt, and the goods being after,wards allowed to continue in his poffeffion and ufe. The 2oth
feaion of the ai&, it is true, is not introduced by a preamble,
fimilar to that which is contained in the Englifh flatute ; but
the general preamble to the whole a& muft be takeh as having
fome relation to all the parts ; dnd that is fuficiently explanatory, of.the Legiflative meaning on the prefent fubje&. Though,.
therefore5 the claufe is unreftrained in terms, and feems to eitend to all the goods in the bankrupt's poffeffion ; yet this latitude of expreffion muft be controuled by the decifions on the
flatute ot games; for, there is no materialvariancebetween the
two laws ; axid under the fatute of James, though the bankrupt is in poffellon of the goods, if he is only empowed to difpofe of them in truft for another, they are- not liable to the
bankruptcy, either inlaw or equity. i P. WIns. 314. Even at
common law, indeed, the Vendor of goods, which fill remained in his poffeffion, might give a fufficient title to fecond Vendee ; for, it fhall be prefumed, as to all other petfons, but the
parties to the firft contra6, that, with the poffeffion, he ffill retains the property. The cafe of Fa&oks, however, has been exCepted from the ftatute of 2t Jac. i. contrary to the expref&
words, for the fake of trade and merchandize."

L. A4tk. 232. 2

Fez. 58g. . xT.Rep. 619 ; and the fame principle will produce the.famq cQnfequence, in conftruing the a& of PemnJi)lva
tia. The cae hi i At/k. 174. 1 Fez. 365 could not havebeen faved by the preamble of the ftatute ; but only -by the ge'neral principle, which is the fame here,. as in .England, of prote&ing a truft, uniaccompaned by fraud. CoWp. 232. Goods
left to fell with one,, who fefs on commiffion, are not within the.
flatute. Bull. N. A. 262, The truft of F 'ors is definite ;

sheb

PhltiUa

CoURt o

CoimdN PLIUS,

63

their powers are limited : As for inflance, they cannotpledge I790,
the goods of their principal for their own debts. 2 Stra. I178. %
And ftdch great injuftice would be the refult of the oppofite
docrine in the cafe of bankruptcy, that the court will not
without abfolute neceffity fuftain it.
On the 2dpoint, it was faid) that the docrine of extinguifh.rnent' was irrelevant ; .for,- it could not be doubted that
if a bond wis taken in difcharge of a precedent debt, no fuit
could afterwards be maintained on the original fimple contract,;
and the only queftion is, whether the property of the principai
can be fufficiertly diftinguified, from the property, of the
bankrupt, to entitle him to the benefit of a lien upon his own
goods. If it can be fo'diftinguifhed, even money Thall be delivered to him. x -tk. 172. However, there is no claim nade
by Price, when the whole money was received before -Pllard's
bankruptcy; but if a facor having fold goods of his principal
on credit, either by way of book debt, or for notes, afterwards
becomes bankrupt, -aid his affignees receive the price of the
goods, 9r the amount of the notes, it fhall be for. the ufe of the
principal. i Salk. x6o. i Yez. 363. There is no reafon to difcriminate between the cafe of credit given generally, or upon.
a note; and credit given upon a bona. In numerous inftances
there way exilt fuch a lien upon e'afes in aeio, as will conftitute thereceiver of them a mere truftee. r.ez, 363. I .dtk.
134- 27'ez. 586. 674. And fuch things as a bankrupt holds
as truftee will not pafs under the commifflion, i T. Rep. 6r9.
The principal has a controuling powe- over the debts due upon
the contract of his factor ; Bull. N.1 13o And as long as
the debts are-not paid, they may be traced, diffinguifhed, and
afcertained in favour of his lien. Thus, .where a factor took an
obligation in his own name for the price of goods entrufted to
him to fell, and afterwards died, the tranfaCtion was traced to
its fource, and the claim of the c6nftitueft, who bwned the
goods, was preferred to the claim of the obligee admini/trator.
2. L&Kaim.P .E.

19. 2. 7ern. 638. 13 Vin. 5 . I Ak. 245. 248,

In the cafe of _McCarty, furviving partner of Cummings vetfis
Nixon, the fame point was adjudged in the Supreme court after
sonfiderable difcuffion and deliberation.* The principle as to
the
I
* In the cafe of AICartey, furvivingpa'tner versus Nixon, it appeared

that the plaintiff and his partner were merchants eflablifhed in France;
that having fold confiderable quantifies of wine to various perfons in
this country, Cummings, the deceafed partner, came hither to collec&

the debts; and accordingly obtained promiffory notes in his own
name for many of them; that before *he notes became due, Cumming
died, and .Nixon, the defendant, took out letters of adminiftration upon
is eflate, by virtue of which he received and recovered the niene

66.

CAsEs

raled and ajdudgcd in the

f790 the adminiftrator of an inteffate, applies, with equal force,
againft the aflignees of a banktupt ; who can only claim in the
fame manner, that the bankrupt might have claimed. Price
might hive ufed Pollard'sname to recover upon the bond before the bankruptcy ; and, if his property can be fairly afcertained, he may do fo ftll. It is true, that where a man pur-,
chafes without notice of a truft, his purchafe fhall be hehd difcharged from it: but the Supreme Court has decided in M'Cullough 'uer.rs IIouJon, that notesor bonds are taken by the.aflignee
fubje&f to the fame equity, as the affignor.' . Doll. Rep. And,
although there is no court of chancery in .Pennvania,
equity
makes a part of the law or the State, according to which the
.judges will decide, in order to prevent a failure ofjuitice. x. DalL
Rep. 213, 2.14.

I The court having held the caufe for fometime under advifement, the Prfe4dent delivered their opinion as follows.
SHiPPEN, Prejident.-The four queftions, firft in the order
of flatement in the cafe fubmitted to the opinion of the court,
having been candidly given up by the counfel for. the defendant,

it only remains to confider the fifth point; which involves an

enquiry, whether by the bankrupts, felling the goods as the
plaintiff's fakor, but taking a bond for the money in his own
name, the nature of the original demand is-not fo altered, that
it fhall attach to the general mafs of the bankrupt's property,
and be held by his affignees in exclufion of the plaintiff's claim?
In other words, whether the plaintiff etains fuch a legal' or
equitable right 'to the bond, or to the money arifing.from it,"as

will enable him to maintain an adtion againfitLe aflighees, if
they hav4 received the amount?
The Legiflature in adopting, not only the general fpirit, but
frequently the very words of the bankrupt law of.England,
have wifely faved the expqnce 'and trouble of fettling many
queftions, which might. otherwife, have occurred for litiga-

tion.
payable on the prcmiffory notes- ; that foon afterwards

IW'Car:ey, the

plaintiff, came to dmepica.to fettle the aftairs of -the company, an&
demanded the amount of the money received by' Vixon upon the
promiflory notes ; but thatIAixon refufed to pay it over, contending,
that
adnliniftrator he was' bound to difcharge the debts of Cum.
-mnngsaiaccording
to a legal priority ; and that if he complied
with
•.,1arteys demand, he would be liable as for a devastavit flould
debts of a' higher nature appear. TuE CouR , however, held, that
the furviving partner, being refponfible for all the company debts,
was entitled to recoer all the company credits ; and that Nixon muft
be' conf3dered as having received the money in truft for.him. The
fame principle is recoznZed-ia rallace'versw Fitasimmmos. z. Dall.
Rep,. 243.

1Phitde40a CoVI7 OF CoMMON

LAs.

ion, on the introdu&ioi of a new and intricate fyftem.

Of

this defcription is the claufe now in queftion. 'he general.
words, that cc if any perfon at fu.ch time as he lhall become
cc bankrupt, fhall by the confent of the true owner have in his
If poffeflion any goods whereof be fhall be -reputed owner, the
" commiflioners fihall have power to fell the fame ifi like nian" ner as any other part of the bankrupt's eitate," are tranfcribed from the ftatute of the 21. Ja. 1. c. 19 ; and hive receiv-,
ed, in England, an afcertained conflrufion highly favorable
to commerce. The goods meant by the ftatutej ard there judicially interpreted to be fuch goods, as the party to whom,,
tlfey really belong, fuffers the trader to fell as his own ; and not
fuch as the trader has a bare authority to fell, in the charaqer
of a fador, for the ufe of the principal, who employs him.
The fame conftrution muft prevail here; for the enafting
words are the fame ; and although the feaion of one law is not
preceded by a preamble, it is certain, that many of the decifions
in the courts of lveJhnin1er are made without adverting to the
preamble, which precedes the analago4t feftion in the ftatute.

of Jamer..
The argument, however, which has beenchiefly relied'on by
the defendant's counfel, is, that by taking a bond for the debt of
the principal, the favtor has rendered the.properfy his .owr,
and is-merely anfwerable perfonally to his conftituent. But on.
this point, likewife, we entertain not the leaft doubt. Whereever the property of the principal can be fpecifically diftinguifhed from the property of the favlor, it has been uniformly.
determined, that the right of the former fhall prevail over the
poleffion of the latter. If, indeed, a favtor fells the goods
configned to him, receives the money due upon the fales, and
mixes it, indifcriminately, with his own carh,. there cannot,
from the nature of the thing, be any fubfequent diflinguifhment
any fpecific appropriation of property. But if the favtor fells on
credit, and does not afterwards a~tally receive the money; or
if, having received the money, he vefts -the amount in other
effe(ts for the ufe of' the principaL; or, if, upon the fale, he
takes notes in his own name, for the price of- the goods ;-in
all thefe inifances, the property of the principal is clearly feparated from the factor's; and. being thps diftingui(h?.os, and
diftinguifhable, it muft upon the principles of law and equity be
appropriated, upon the factor's bankruptcy, to the individual
ufe of the principal; it cannot 'be applied by the commifflioners to the benefit of the general creditors;
But, it has nkewife been contended, that the fator's taking
abon.d, may be, dlftinguiflaed from the cafe of taking a note
a the bond ewtinguiffies. the fimple coutra6t, debt,, but the note

1790.

68

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

1790. does not. The .extinguifiment of a book debt, by receiving
6w-r-.. fecurity of a higher nature, may vary the mode of recovery,
but cannot alter the right. The money due upon the bond, io
Rigtthe money 6f the principal ; and he has an unqueftion.ble
right to'employ the name .of the o Yligee
in an adion to recover
it," If, indeed, in the cafe of negociable notes (which are to
many purpofrs -confidered as money) the fum due upon
them, fhall ftil be deemed to be the"property of the principal;
there feems a fironger reafon, that the rule fhall operate in the
cafe of bonds, which, even
.Pennfylvania, are infruments of
notes.
thanin
a lefs negociable nature
Upon the whole, we are of opinion, tha the law is clearly
in favor of the plaintiff.j

WOLAM,

.vefus. COWPERTHWAITE.

HIS was an a&ion brought againft the Sheriffof Philadelphia, for taking good*s by virtue of a writ de retorn6 ha.
tendo. The fads were as follow: One Creon, diitrained godds
of Hamilton, for rent, due to Samuel Emlen ; Hamilton, replevied the goods, and gave fecurity to the Sheriff, in the ufual form ;
lie afterwards moved with his goods into the houfe of the plaintiff, who, after rent had' accrued to him, diftrained the goods ;.
Hamilton, the next day after this diftrefs, removed -the goods
from off the premifes ; they were followed by the Officer, who
made the fecond diftrefsi, and he had them appraifed in the
houfe to which Hamilton hail removed them; ihortly after this
appraifement, and while the goods remained where they were
appraifed, the defendant in the firft replevin obtained judgment
for his rent, and iffued a retornohabendo; by virtue of whaich, the
Sheriff took the goods, and delivered them to Creen, who fold
their. at public vendue.
The queftion fubmitted to the Court was, whether the goods
were liable to be taken under the retorno hqbendo, in preference
of, and fo as to exclude, Woglam'j diftrefs ? Or whether by the
removal of the Goods by Hamilton, the lien on the property acquired by Woglam'4 diftrefs was not defeated as 2gainft Emlen ?
The Prefident after recapitulating the above fads, delivered
the opinion of tie Court.
SIlpPERt, Prefidenti: The firft point which arifes on the cafe,
is. whethefthere was any fubfifting lien in favour of the firft ilifrainor, the goods having been replevied and fecurity given ?
Whateyer doubt there might have been before, as to
this quftio% it appears to be now fettled by the cafe of Bradyl
verfu~r

