CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

1,792. ftaince of a fait for prize money, brought in the name of the
-

affignee again ft the agent. So in i DalL.Rep. 95. Talbotv. Purviance, though it was confequental to a prite caufe, the Court of
Appeals of PemIw vania futtained the fuit. A later cafe is iftrongly in point. Hen. Black. p. 5r5. When prize is determined,
the rights of the captors are a foundation for a fuit at law. And
the fame do&fine is maintained. ibid. 523.
BY THE CoURT :-In 1775, Congiefs refolved that all prizes
fhould be the right of the captors. "fheyhad the prerogative
of making war and peace ; and, therefore, t.he jurifdidion in cafe
of prize., This refolution vefted a legal right in the captors, to
all property taken rightfully at fea. What wai a legal capture,
was to ke determined by the Courts of Admiralty ; but, being
determined, the legal right was complete. The real meaning of
the rule, that the Courts of Common Law will not take into
confideration the incidents of a prize cauife, is, that they will not
review or draw before them the quejtion of prize, which ought to
be determined by the law of nations, and in the Court of Admiralty. Here, the property has been condemned ; the Marihall
is direcled to fell it for the benefit of the captors ; and the
plaintiff is the agent app,ointed by the Judge, igreeably. to the
14 th fe&. of the a(t. It is his duty to receive it. To him are intrufted the rights of the abfent feamen, and the contingent right
of the Pennfylvania H1ofpital. He feems to be authorifed to
bring a fuit in his-own name. Befides, the return of the Marfhall is an admiffion.of his right, and a promife to pay.A motion for a nn-fiit over-ruled ; and a verdic for the
plaintiff.
H.ALDANE et a.

verfis DUCHL's, Executors.

rPHIS was a, motion for new trial, founded on a declarationr
I
made by the Court, while the merits were before the Jury, that if the counfel for the defendants could fihew, that, on
the evidence given, the a&ion was notmaintainable, a pew trial fhould be granted. The a&ion was Indebibatus .affumZt for
money had and-received to the plaintiff's ufe ; and the evidence
to fupport it was as follows : .James Duce., the Teftator, was
feized, in right pf his wife Heler;, of a rent-charge of / 12 8 4
iffuing yearly out of a houfe and lot. in-the City of Philadelpbia;
of a houfe and. lot in tha city ; and of five acres and
three quarters of meadow land, in the neighbouring townihip
of
oayatyietfing. Mrs. Heq~r Duche, died in. Jfune,. 1779,
iffue, and Elizabeth Haldane, one of the plaintiffs, was.
her heir at law ; but the plaintiffs were not apprized of their
title to the premffes "till the year 1785. On the 2dof Mdrch1786j,

-without

SUPRrME

CoupT OF Pennj'lvania.

177

1786, they fold and conveyed the whole of the premifes for a. 1792.
valuaole confideration, to j ohn Diffel, who thereupon infliItrted an ejetment againft the tdnants in poffefion, and recovered. It appeared, however, that before thie marriage of Mr.
and Mrs. Duche, on the 3 oth of Aay, 1747, they had entered into marriage articles, (which were recor&d in Auzgjeq,
17790,) whereby a power was referved to the latter to difpof. of
theperfonaleftate, during the coverture, but no mention was
made of her real eftate; and, acedrdingly, on the i th of Mlay,
1765, the made an appointment in the nature of a Will, difpofing
of C2, ioo perfonal eftate, of which a fum of .5o was given to.
the plaintiff, E/iza3eth Haliane,who received it from Ilr. Duche.
But fie, alfo, undertook by the fame inftrument -to devife her
real eftate to her hufband, and conftituted him one of her Executors. After her death, Mr. Duche, or his reprefentative, continued
to demife the real eftat , and to receive the accruing rents arifing,
as well as the rent-charge, 'till the 2d of Mlarch, 1786, to the
aggregate amount of £938 5 3, of which the fum of £743 5 3
was received by him, and the fum of £195, was received by
Andrew Doz, one of his Executors, fubfequent to the conveyance to 7ohn Dtjeld. In addition to thefe fa&s, it appeared,
that a letter had been written from Mr. Duche, to the plaintiff,
Elizabeth Haldane, on the z2th of February, 1782, ftating, that
as his fon had been attainted of treafon, the real eftate of He..
ter Duche, might be loft, unlefs fhe; as heir at law, would convey it to him, and offering £1oo for fuch a conveyance ; which
offer was augmented to the fum of £3o by fimilar letters, dated
refpe&ively the' oth of May, and the ' 4 th of 5uy, 17 84. At
that period Elizabeth Haldane, refided in the State of .M4aryland,
and her hufband was in ftraitened circtmftances. The plaintiffs having, as above fated, recovered in the ejement for the
premifes, brought this ation againft the Executors of Mr. Duche
tor the rnefne profits ; and the Jury, conformably to the charge
of the Court, gace a verdi& in favor of the plaintiff, for
£598 TS, the ariountof the rents from February, I 7-82, 'till
The 2dMarch, 1786.
The motion for a new trial (which was argued at the lafl
Term) was fupported by E Tilghman and Lewis ; and oppofed by Ingirfolland Sergeant.
In frpport of the motion, it was contended, that upon the
evidence the prefent affion cannot be maintained, becaufe the
Teftator was a dfeifor; and no action will, in fuch cafe, lie againft 4xeczdorx : That it will not lie, becaufe there was no privity; becatfe the money was received as owner ; and bevaufe the plaintiffs had conveyed away all their right to the eftate. The Teftator received the money from his own tenants,
for his own ufe ; and the cafe is not tainted by arty fraud, conealrmc .
Z

i78

CAss ruled and adjudged in the "

1792. cealment, or mifrepr'fentation ; nor affeled by any queftioil

'

.o-r

infancy.

For thefe general pofitions the following authori2 Wils. 115. 2o.
2 Chan. Rep. 26,
32. '259. 2 Ca. in Chan. 7,. 134.
1 Cha. Ca. xz6.
z
Vern. 296. .Prec. Ch. 07. I Vez. 171. 2 .dtk. 336. 4
lin. .Abr. tit. " Chancery." 388. 389. P1. 5. iS Yin. Abr.
563. 2 Vern. 696. 3 BL Com. 2o5.
Iii oppolition to the motion, it was urged, that an a&ion of
ind'bitatusafuinyt will lie for the true owners againft one, who
pretends a title to lands, and receives the rents : An action of
account will certainly lie, and this may with equal propriety be
brought. It will lie for the profits received prior to thie demife
laid in the ejeclment ; and whoever receives rents by wrong,
ihall be conitrued a Truftee, or Bailiff, for him who has the
right. Befides, the plaintiffs may confider the Teftator as a diffeifor, or not, at their elecion ; and, waving the tort, May
proceed on the implied contra&. Mr. Duche had certainly no
right in law or equity to receive the money, and, therefore, is
not entitled, ex equo et bono, to retain it. But even if an action at law could not be maintained in Englazd, yet the money
might, unqueftionably, be recovered there in a Court of Equi.
ty ; while in Penrfjlvania, if it could not be recovered in this
action, there would be a right without remedy, fince no other
remedy can be here purfued. For thefe pofitions the following
authorities were. cited: i Salk. 28.. i T'. Rep. 378. Cosvpz
371. 2 Wlils. 644. Prec. in Chaa, 517. I Bac. ,br. 18.
Vin. tbr. tit. " Affinnpji." p. 270.
The "Chief ifftice, after recapitulating the facts and argu,
ments, proceeded to deliver the following opinion.
M'KrE AN, Chief 7t7yle:-This does not appear to me to be
a hard or difficult cafe. If. a man r eceives my rent, it is at my
eleclion to charge him with a diffeifin, by bringing an affize or other a .ion, or to have an accofnt. Cro. Car 303. pL 6.
Lit,,. Sec. 588. But if trefpafs is brought, znd the diffeifor dies,
it cannot be renewed againft his executors, at law; though it may,
notwirhltanding that ac7io perjovalis moritur cuni perfona, be recovered in equity. It does not lfem neceflary to dbtermine, whether fuch an aion as the prefent, could be maintained in England; the queftion here isi whether the plaintifs are entitled in equity to an account of the rents and profits of Mrs.
.Hadane'seftate ; and, if fo, from what time?
Nothing can be clearer than, that the plaintiffs had a right
to the real eflate of Mrs. HJfler Duche, at her death in June,
1779, and to all the rents and profits to be derived from it from.
that time. It is certain, that they had this right in law, equity and confcience, and yet if they are prevented from recovering

ties were cited :--3 Leon. 24. O'wen 83;
213. 217. 645. 744- 3 A.& 124. i30.

them,

Smumn

CouRT or Pennylvana.

179

tem, it muft be owing to fome impediment in law or equity. 1792.
w
I know of no fuch impediment ; they have a right to receive this'- 'Y'
Teftator
the
unlefs
money from the time their title accrued,
had no notice of their title ; or was in pofeffion under a title, or
fuch a title as he was myraken in ; 6r there has been a default or
lache.r in the plaintiffs, in not afferting there title fooner..
Mr. Duche had all the deeds, and he of courfe knew the title of
Mrs. Haldane ; but he might poffibly have apprehended, that the
deief of his wife was good in law to himfelf : I fay, he poffix
bly was under this mj/ake for a time ; but from his letter of the
12th
d ebruary, 1782, it appears, that he then knew his own title to be bad, and that of the plaintiffs to be good. It further
appeared to the Jury, that Mr. Ducbe not only concealedthe title
of the plaintiffs from them, but mffreprefenlted his own. From
this time, he was not a boner fidei pofeor, and was accountable
to the plaintiffs for the rents, whatever might have been the
cafe prior to this time. A man cannot be an hqneft, faithful poffeffor of what belongs to others; nothing but ignorance of the fa&s.
nd circumftances, relating to his own and his adverfary's titles,
can excufe him inforo cotfcientix. This cannot be pretended here.
"Thus it was fummed up to the Jury, on the trial, and they
found for the plaintiffs accordingly, that is, the amount of the
rents. from February, 1782, 'till March 2, 1796, which I think
was right, and agreeable to equity and the truth of the cafe. If I
erred in the charge to the Jury, it was in limiting them to
February,.1781, and not going back to June, 17 79 r thetime ivhert
Mrs. Halane's title accrued. From this circumftance, the de-.
fendants retain the rents and profits of an eftate, for upwards
of two years and an h1f, to which their Teftator had neither a.
legal nor equitable title. The cafes cited for the plaintiffs, particularly, Bacon's Abr. 18. Prec.- in Chanc. 5 17, and 2 Will,
644. fupport this opinion.
The rule to fhew caufe, why a new trial fliould*not be grant-,
Cd, muR be difcharged..

September Term, X792.
SHAw 'erfuS WALLACE.
HIS caufe was fet down for trial; but was afterwardce

jcontinued by the plaintiff. The defendant's attorney,

prayed a rule might be granted for fecurity for cofts, the plain-.
Z2
ta

