SU~pR.EMP

CouIr ON PennfyAagW.

M'KEAN, Chief 7ufice-The oath of the interefted party can-

aot fingly be admitted to maintain his demand: nor, is it merely upon a Plaintifif's oath, that an original entry in his books is
received in our courts as evidence;. fince that, when allowed
its utmoft latitude, proves nothing more than thd fale' and delivery of the gcods.

With refpe& to. the mode of eftablifbirig the exception to tho

judgment, the affidavit of theDefendant, though not conclufive,
muft at leaft be deemed fufficient, for throwibg'the obuspro
andi, if other evidence was produced, upon his adverfary.

TARiN verf s MoRRi, d. al.
HE Planitiff was indorfee of a Note, which was drawn by
Gheir, in favor of the Defendant, William Morrir. Soort
ter the prefeni a&ion was brought, the Defendant became
banikrtpt; and another fuit was inflituted on the fame note
againft Gheir, the drawer, in which judgment had been obtain.,
ed for the debt and cofts. The Defendant's certificate being
flill in fufpenfe, Ingerfoll moved that judgment fhouild likewife
be entered in the prefent alion for cofts; Rating that feveral
fuits may be brought againft all the parties to a Bill or Note ;
and that .although only one fatisfaEion could be recovered, yet
execution for cofts might be ifflued in all the fuits. Bail: B.of.
4-3. .2 /ez. ,xiS. But Sergeant, for the Defendant, urged, 6hat
this was a hard cafe, as his client was originally only an indorfer, and had become a bankrupts that it was at the peril of the
holder of a bill, or note, fo far as refpets the cofts, if he fqed,
for one faisfa&ion, all the parties that were liable to make it ;
and that, in the cafe cited, judgment had previoufly been obtained in all the fuits ; while, in this cafe, judgment has not been
obtained, and is only requrefted for cofts.
BY THE COURT . We entertain no doubt upon this fubjea:
It is the cafe of feveral perfons, feverally bound, and feverally
fued, where, until one has a&ually made the fatisfa&ion, all
are liable to make it. The cafes cifed clearly exprefs the pri-

Lt judgment be entered for. voft..

1790.

