CASES ruled and adjudged in the

'795The UNITED

STATES

verfu$

VIGOL.

TNDICTMENT'for high treafon, in levying war again.t the

I

United States. The prifoner was one of the mo4t acive of
the infurgents in the WeRern Counties of Pennfylvania, and had
accompanied the armed party, who attacked the houfe of the
Excife Officer, (Reigan's) in We/flmoreland, with guns, drums,
&c. infifted upon his furrendering his official papers, and extorted an oath from him, that he would never a& again in the
execution of the Excife Law. The fame party then proceeded
to the houfe of Wells, the Excife Officer in Fayette county,
fwearing that the EBxcife Law fhould never be carried into efieft,
and that they would deftroy Wells and his houfe. On their arrival, Wells had fled and concealed himfelf; .whereupon they
ranfacked the houfe -;burned it, with all its contents, including
the public books and papers ; and afterwards difcovering Well!,
feized, imprifoned, and compelled him tb fwear, that he would
no longer a6& as Excife Officer. Witneffes were, likewife, examined to eftablifh that the general combination and fcope of
the infurre&ion, were to prevent the execution of the Excife
Law by force ; and in the courfe of the evidence, the durefs of
the Marfhall of the Diftri&, the affembling at Couche's, the
burning of general Neville's houfe, &c. were prominent features.
As no queftion of -law arofe tipon the trial, but the cafe refted entirely on a proof of the overt acts by two witneffes, ff.A
Levy and'Le'wis for the ddfendant, and the Attorney of the
Diftri&, agreed, without.argument, to fubmit to the decifion of
the Jury, under the charge of the Court ; which was delivered
to the following effe.
PATTERSON,' Juqice. The firft point for confideration, iq
the evidence, which has been given to eftablifh the cafe fRated in
the indi&ment ; the fecond point turns upon the criminal intention of the party; and from thefe points (the evidence and
intention) the law arifes.
With refpe& to the evidence, the current runs one ,way : It
harmonizes in all its parts: It proves that the prifoner was a
member of the party, who went to Reigan's houfe, and. afterwards, to the houfe of Wells, in arms, marfhalled, and arrayed ; and who, at each place, committed a&s of violence and
devaftatipn.
With i-efpe& to the intention, likewife, there' is not, unhappily, the'flighteft poffibility of. doubt: To fupprefs the Office of,
the Fourth Survey of this State ; and particularly,,in
Excifc, ird
the

ClRcur

CoURT, Pen/lvana Diri

.

347

the prefent inftance, to compel the refignation of Trdlls the Ex- 1795cife Officer, fo as to render null and void, in effe&, an a& of k..t-.0
Congre.fs; conflituted the apparent, the avowed, obje&l of the
infurre&ion, and of the outrages which the prifoner affifted to
commit.
Combining thefe fa&s, and this defign, the crime of High
Treafon is confummate in the contemplation of the Conftitution
and Law of the United States.
The counfel for the prifoner have endeavoured, in the courfe
of a faithful difcharge of their duty, to extraa from the witneffes fome teftimony, which might jufify a defence upon the
ground of durefs and terror. But in this they have failed;, for
the whole fcene exhibits a difgraceful unanimity ; and,, with
regard to the prifoner, he can only be diftinguiflled for a guilty pre-eminence in zeal and a&ivity. It may not, however, be
ufelefs on this occafion, to obferke, that the fear, which the
law recognizes as an excufe for the perpetration of an offence;
muff proceed from an immediate and a&ual danger, threatening the very life of the party. The apprehenfion of any lofs of
property, by wafte, or fire; or even an apprehenfion of a flight
or remote injury to the perfon, furnifh no excufe. If, indeed,
fuch circumftances could avail, it would be in the power of every crafty leader of tumults and rebellion, to indemnify his
followers, by uttering previous menaces ; an avenue would be
forever open for the efcape of unfuccefsful guilt; and the whole
fabric of fociety muff, inevitably, be laid proftrate.
A technical objeftion has, alfo, been fuggeled in favor of
the prifoner. It is faid, that the 'offence is no proved to have
been committed, on the day, nor the number of the Infurgent
party to be fo great,, as the. indi~tment flates. . But both
thefe exceptions, even, if well founded in faft, are immaterial
in point of law. The crime is proved, and laid to have bcen
committed, before the charge was prefented ; and whether it
was committed by one hundred, or five hundred, cannot alter
the guilt of the defendant. If, however, the Jury entertain
any doubt upon the matter, they may find it fpecially,
Verdi&, GUILTY. *
The
XX 2
#

The Court having waited about sn Iaur for the Jury -('till half

paq ten o'clock at night) adjourned 'till i r o'clpck the next morning.

Jufl after the adjournment took place, the Jury requefted to fee Foster- Crown Law and the Acts of Gongress,- which, by confent, were
accordingly fent to them. I am told, that they remained together
'till between 3 and 4 o'clock in the morning, when they wrote; figned,
and fealed up, their verdift and adjourned. On the next morning
(the 23d of I1iy 1795) they appeared at the bar; and, being called
over,

