246

CA sS ruled and adjudged in the

'1796. ought not to be brought in eafe of the particular lands mortxv_1-'gaged; but it feems to me, that the devife of the refiduary part
of the perfonal eftate fhould give way to te devife of the real
efate, fubje&ed to the. mortgage, and be applied as far as it will
go in difcharge- of the mortgage ; for the devifce of the real
eftate muff take it cum onere, that is fubje& to the mortgage,
unlefs the refkdue of the perfonal eftate will be fufficient to difcharge it. See Gilb. Rep. in Eq. 72. Talbot 202. 2 Ad. 23o.
I Will. 730. 694. _Prec. in.Cha. 578.
The followiiig judgment was thereupon entered.
BY T1E CouRT :-It is confidered by the Court, that the
plaintiffs recover the fum of money mentioned in the verdia, to-gether with lawful' intereft thereon, and the cofts of fuit ; and
that if there fhiould remain any overplus, after paying ard fatislying the general debts, the fpecific and pecuniary legacies, out
of the perf6nal eftate, and the equitable charge of C3oOo on
the lands devifed to the defendant, that the fame be applied, in
the firft place, in difcharge of the mortgage on part of the faid
lands to the managers of.the .ennfylvatuia Hofpital, and afterwards of the charitable legacy, and then among the iefiduary legatees, agreeably to the will of the teftator.
NicnoLsoN's Leffee 1'1erfWX 'MIF1LIN.

A

QUESTION

arofe in this cafe, whether the defendant
had given a written authority to Edward Bonfall (a Scrivener, who kept an office for -the fale of lands) to difpofe of the
premifes in queftion, which the leffor of the plaintiff alledged
hehad contra6led for, and bought, under that authority.
To prove that a writcn authority was given, but had been
rniflaid, the Plaintiff's Counte offered Edward Bonfall, as a
witnefs :
SBut,
'Yr
aTE CouR-r -- The agent is not a competent witnefs
to prove his own authority for the fale of lands, in this way:
the contents of the writihg muff be proved by other witnefls ;
and then he'might be allowed to flhew in what manner he had
exectlted his inftru6lions.
The plaintiff not being able to give any other evidence of
this preliminary fatl -f'uffered a non-fuit.
Lewi and Gibjon, for the plaintiff. L'gerfoll and Cony for
the defendant.

&p~ernker

