Supm, CouRT

ar .Pen ilvnva.

93

cription might either be of the degree or miftery ; the latter of 1785.
which had been chofen in the prefent cafe. 2 Hawk.* 186.
IPood. IV. 45BY THE COURT :--It is neceflary to flate the townfhip ; but
if the defendant is proved to have been there, it is enough to
fatisfy the defignation. The firft day a man comes into a place,
he is a ftranger ; the fecond day he is confidered as a gueft ;
and the third day he becomes an inhabitant. But if any one
comes from New-y7erjey, and ftays only an hour in Pennj'lvania,
during which he commits an offence, he muft be charged as of
the townfbip, in which he was at the time ; for, he cannot be
called of New-J7erfey.
With refpe& to the obje&ion againft the -form of the addition, it is to be obferved, that the ftatute requires the defcription
of a fiate, degree, or miftery; but either of them is fufficient.
For inftance, it has never been doubted, but that the addition
of widow, or fpinfter, is valid, and yet fuch addition is certainly not defcriptive of any degree or miftery.
The'iffue being found for the Commonwealth, fentence of
death was pronounced, aud the defendant was foon afterwards
executed.

May Sefflions, 1786.

AN oRw's Leffee, 'verfus FLEMINg.V

JECT

ENT.

In the courfe of the trial of this caufe,

the following points were ruled.
z. The plaintiff offared to give evidence of a converfation between Thomas Fleming, the hufband of the defendant, under
whom Ohe -held poffeffion, and Callander, under whom the
plaintiff claimed ; in which Fleming, declared, c that he had title
to the land in queftion, taken in execution as his, by the fheriff;
and prayed Calldnder to permit him to continue fometime Iongerin poffeffion."
It was obje&ed, that the admiffion of the evidence would be
fetting up a perfon's own declarations, to give him a title to the
2and.
But,
-* Ruled at Lancaster Nisi Prius.

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

94

ButAnY THE COUEt :-Eje6ments- are poffefory a~ions;
z.786.
and in England it is necefflary to fhew a poffeffion. within twen"
-;
may, therefore, fliew the poffeffioh of
ty years. The plaintiff
Mr. Callander or of any other perfon under whom he Iaims,.
within that term ; and, in order to do fo, he cirtainly is at libeity to give. proof, that the perfon, under whom the defendant
claims, was, in fa&, inothing more than Mr. Callande-s Tenant
on fufferance.'" Let the evidence be admitted.
2. It was.obje&ed, on the-part of the defendant, that the
.Fi. Fa. by viitue of which the lands in queftion had been fold,
only dire&ed the jheriff rto levy of the goods and chattels, &c.which is not an authority to take the lands in execution.
BY TH CouRT :-Lands are to be confidered as chattels in
Penfylvania, for the payment of debts. In fome 'countie' of
this State, and throughout the State of .Delaware, the writs of
Fi. Fa. always iffue in that form. It is laid, that ther precedents mention" Lands and Tenements" ; but this has not been
proved, as it ought to be,. by producing in Court fuch precedents before, at the time, and fubfequent, to the iffuing of the
* writ. At moft, however, it is but an omiffion, in point ofform;
which is too Blender a foundation for overfetting a fheriffs fale
of lands.
Wifon,. for the Plaintiff. Y'eates and Smith, for the Defendant.
.
PENNINGTON 'verfus ScoT-.r

rtIVHIS caufe being marked for:trial, the defendant moved'to

. J pofpone it, upon an affidavit, ftating, " that'he took out

afubpxena three weeks'ago, as foon as the time for liolding the

Court was known., and immediately employed one Rabb to ferve
it joi the witnefs, who lived at a diftance ; that he had; likewife,

" fent, by'the meffenger, a letter to his Brother, requefting him to
fee that thefiibpzrna was ferved, and the %vitnefsexpedited, in
cicafe of aniy aceidnt to Rabb; that the witnefs was material,
without whbfe tefmony, the defendant could not fafely go to.
trial ; that -Rabb a4 n6t returned, nor had the defendant heard
any thing Qf him fince his departure ; andfthat he thinks it probable tha t the attendance of the witnef might be procured at the
next Court."
"ae:.infifted, that the defendant muft produce afubpena,.

and prove the fervice of it, in order to bring his cafe within the

general rule..

But) By THE CouRT :--It appears that as f~on as the defendant h2d -notice of thetime &ftrial, he ookout" a fuP&-na for
Rut dat Lafedsrer Nisi P'i*s.

