3.30

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

1795PARASSET verftut

GAUTIER:

A

CAPLS had iffued in this fuit, returnable to the prefent Term ; but previoufly to the return of the writ,
there had be-en a hearing before Judge PETERS, at his chambers,
upon a citation to Ihew caufe, why the defendant fhould not
be"
difcharged on common bail ; the Judge had ordered bail
to
given; and the defendant had appealed from this- order to be
the
Court. The merits of the appeal were now difcuffed ; and,
dependent of fome circumitances relating to the origin of inthe
debt (which the Court faid ought not to weigh upon a queftion
of bail*) the material facts appeared to be thefe :-An ation
had been inftituted in the Supreme Court of Ponnfylvania,
betwe~n the fame parties, for the fame caufe.; and- on a hearing
before Chief Jultice M'KEAN, the defendant was ordered to
be
difcharged 'on common bail. From that order the plaintiff
did
not appeal; but afterwards applied by motion to' the Supreme
Court, for a rule upon the defendant to enter fpecial bail.
This
the'Court refufed ; becaufe they would not take cognizance
the fubje&, but by way of appeal from the decilion of of
the
Chief J uftice; and the proper time for making fuch an appeal
had elapfed. Under thefe circumftances, the plaintiffdifconti
nued his adlioh in the State Court, and brought the prefent
action here. It "alfo, appeared, that the plaintiff (who was a
reigner, ignorant of our laws) had not originally employed Foan
attorney to appear before Chief Juftice M'KEAN, though
the
perfon that then attended him, pretended to have a competent
kn owledge of legal proceedings.
M.- Le7fy, for the pldintiff, contended that bail ought to be
given. Nothing fhort of a judgment, can be a perpetual bar
lp
perfonal a ions ; arid, therefore, the certificate of a difcharge
on common bail by the Chief Juftice of Pennfylania, was
binding upon the Judge of this Court, 'who had given a not
different order. The perfon, chara4er, and legal talents, of
that
Judge could not be taken into view. The Jultices of the Courts
of Common Pleas poffefs a concurrent jurifdiaion, without
poffefling
* PATTERSON, Justike :-Ifyou make it a queflion
of fraud in the
orignal contract, or in the afilgnmert, the Court cannot
enquire into it, upona queltion of'bail. We cannot travel into
the merits
of the controverfy: It would be, in effect, a pre-adjudication
of the
caufe. The princple that muft govern fiuch preliminary
inveftiga.
tions refis here ; if a reafonable caufe of action is then, the dfendant ought t6 beheld to bail.

CIRCUIT COURT, Penifyhvania Diftri&t.

331

poffeffing afparkof hisjurifprudential knowledge ;and yet if his 1795difeharge is conclufive, fo likewife muff theirs be.* Adions are
often commenced after tion-fuits *; and, it is clear, that the fecond Court is not bound, in fuch cafes, nor even in cafes
where a decifion may have been had on the merits, by the opinion of a firfl Court. It is true, that every fpecids of vexation
fliould be difcouitcnanced ; but every miftake o, ght not to be
interpreted into an ac of vexation. The plaintiff was ill-advifed in the mode of prefenting his cafe to the Chief Juilice of
.Pennfylvania; and, confidering his ignorance of our laws, he
ought not to lofe the benefit of bail, by the laches of his agent,
in not purfuing the technical form of an appeal. Nor is the
difeontinuance of the former adion, under thefe circunmifances,
to be imputed to him as matter of malice and pdrfecution. If
die plaintiff's motive was originally juft and commendable, to
recover a bona fide debt, the allegation of any fubfequent impropriety muft be manifefied by fome fad : now, if he was
ever fairly entitled to hold the defendant to bail, the difcharge
can furnifh no ground to accufe the plaintiff of vexation for endeavouring, by various means, to accomplifl that objed ; and,
after the State Court had refafed to interpofe, he muft either
abandon that objed, or difcontinue his fuit, and refort to another tribunal. A man may commence a fuit as often as he
pleafes ; and may hold his debtor twenty different timec to bail,
if any reafonable caufe can be affigned for fo withdra~wing ant
renewing the procefs of the law. No argument to the contrary can be founded on z Ifills. 381 ; for, bail *vas there refufed on the fecond adiori, becaufe it had not been afked in. the
firft. Vexation muft flow from a worfe fource than ignorance,
or accident : it is generally infligated by malice ; and always
charaderifed by vigilance. In the prefent cafe, there is no
fvmptom of malice ; and the want of vigilance has alone produced the plaintiff's embarraffment.
Du Ponceau, for the defendant, admitted, that when a difcontiuance took place, without any vexatious defign or efe&, either in confequence of a miftake in the nature of the adion, or
of an attorney's flip in the form of condufting it, bail might
be ordered in the fecond action, for the fame catufe" But he contended, that when a queftion has been decided by one tribunal, another tribunal of co-ordinate jurifdition will not take cognizance of it, except hi the regular courfe of a judicial appeal.
lie urged, likewife, that the circumftances of inftituting and
difcontinuing an acton in the State Court, wereprinaJ;zcieevidence of vexation, that required a better explanation and eccufe
thar
'ft 2
PATTERSON, Yttstice:-The certificate of the Chief Jtf;.e of
Pennsyl!dnia is produced as evidence of vexation, on the part cf the

il.aintiff ; and wt to bid the judgmcnt of the Court.

332

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

1795- than have been given ; and to thefe -lieadded the change of the
But he particularly infifted, that the negle& of appealifig from the order, of Chief Juftice M'KEAN, was his own
laches, which he ought not to be allowed to remedy by transfering the fuit to another Court, at the expence of his antagofff. 2 Wii. 318 1.
PATTERSON, Jfliuce :-The grounds of vexation in this cafe
do not appear to me to be fuch as to juftify the refufal of bail ;
and every cafe of this nature muff be decided upon its own
circumftances. I fhall always, indeed, be a friend to the practice of holding to bail, wherever there is a probable caufe of
acion. Here the caufe of a&ioni3 apparent; ? nd though 'it
may be liable to a reafonable controverfy, or may be refuted upon a trial, we ought not to inveftigate the merits at this ftage,
ftirther than to afcertain what probability there exifts in fupport of the plaintiff's claim. The negle& to appeal from the
order of the Chief Juffice of Pennfylvania, whiclt eventually
occafioned the difcondnuance of the firft fuit, appears, likewife,
to be a mere flip of the attorney ; and if -a e can, confiftently
with the law, prevent the plaintiff's fuffexing in confequence of
that. flip, I think we ought to do it.

L%-%j tribunal.

PETERS, J7uJ/ice :-On the hearing before me, I perceived,

that.there had been a lapfe in not bringing the firft fuit formally before the State Court; and I was defirous of putting the
quefti6n on the fame footing here, as if an appeal had been regularly inftituted there. I entertain a high refpe& for the opinions of the Chief Juftice of Penwfylvania ; and, on this occafion, I am difpofed to think, that the plaintiff's inability to ftate
his cafe in the abfence of his attorney, or the defe& of proof
at the time, occafioned his iffuing the order for difcbarging the
defendant on common bail. But, as the matter appears to this
Court, I perfe6tly concur in the fentiments, which have been
delivered by Judge PATTERON.
The order to hold the defendant to bail, was, accordingly,
affirmed.
GEYGER's Leffee vesfus GEYGER.

'A

RULE had been obtained by the plaintiff, requiring the
defendant to fhew caufe, why an order fliould not be
made for the produaion of certain deeds and papers on the trial
-of this caufe, agreeably to the provifion of the x5 th fe&ion of
the judicial a&: And now, on proof that a copy of the rule was
ferved on the plaintiff's attorney, it was moved to make the fame
abfr' te.
But,

