I8
1790.
'v-for

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

Coates, to redover a debt ; that Sharpe offered to make a fet of,
water-money, that is, a charge for Thatcher's drawing water
at his pump ; but that Juftice Coates refufed to admit it, and,
gave judgment for the debt demanded. That, thereupon, Sharpe
fued Thatcher before Juffice Wharton ; and his fon was fworn,
as a witnefs, to prove an agreement between the parties, relative
to paying water money, but he declared he knew nothing about
it. That Sharpe himfelf was then qualifiedtothe truth of his
account ; and upon this evidence alone, Juftice .Whatiton, gave
judgment for the amount ; though it was formally certified .to
him, that Juftice Coates had already decided upon the fAme queftion.
THE COURT, in terms of great difapprobation, declared
that no Jutice ought to take cognizance of a caufe, which had
previoufly been decided by another Juffice. But without
taking that point into confideration, they faid a judgment given,
merely on the atteftation of the party interefted, could not be
fuftained.
judgment reverfedo

verfus

GALBRAITH,

Garnifhee.

HIS Scieri Paciasagainft the Garnifhee

a foreign attachTment, was returnable to December terminnext;
and on.mo-

tion of Howell, and Hallowell, THE COURT gra.nted a rule for
taking the depofitions of witneffes, on notice to the Garnifhee.,

The BANK of NORTH AMERICA Verfus VARDON.

HIS was an afion againft the indorfor of a promiffory
note in which the only defence attempted on the trial,
was the want of notice, that the note had not been paid by the
drawer, when it became due. Lewis, for the plaintiff; would
not admit, that in Pennfylvania, the ftri&l do&rine of notice applied to the cafe of promiffory notes as in Eniland; where notes
are put by ftatute upon the fame footing with bills of exchange,
and muft, therefore, in that refpe&, as. well as every other, be
regulated by the fame rules ; nor that a proteft on a promifFory
note was at all neceffary here, except for the conveniency of afcertaining the demand and non-payment. He produced, howvier, the mellenger of the Bank,, to prove the fa of notice being

