SUPREME COURT

OF Pent ,lvana.

141

Such ras the cafe in Elton & Brogdon. On the other hand, tlhe 1792.
mafter may unite a fmail intereft of his owners, with a greater
one of his own, yet we may difcover a difhoneft heart, regardlefs
of their effential inter efts. In every cafe therefore of this kind,
we muft weigh every circumftance, and form our judgment from
the impreffion of fraud, or fairnefs, which the whole tranfacfion
makes on our minds.
Taking into view the whole condu6t of Keeler, I cannot difcover any fraud or criminal conduit. Here was an a& of piracy committed in open day: The purfuit of the Fy was, in itfelf,
a meritorious aCtion; and if Keeler had been the o*ner of the
.dmerica, he would have been applauded for it. The whole mercantile world feems interefted in the fuppreffion of fuch villany.
Ie is folicited to employ his veffel on the occafion; he fipulates for a compenfation; and though he experted to receive a part
of it himfelf, yet ihat muft have depended on the pleafure of
his owners. It would have been their money, earned by their
fhip ; yet the captain might honeftly expe&t, that they would approve his condut and reward his exertions. It was a fudden
thing; we cannot fay that he knew of this. infurance, or that he
was aware of the confequqences of his deviation. Here are no
marks of knavery, or even of a difregard tc his owner's interefits.
It was an imprudence ; and he is anfwerable for it to his owners ; but the infurers are difcharged.
For thefe reafons I concur with the reft of the Court, that
judgment muff be for the defendant.

CATON,

Aflignee of the Sherif, verfue MCnTY.

L

EVT had obtained a rule to thew cdufe, why the proceedings on the bail-bond &louldnot be flaid, on the
ground that the plaintiff had accepted the defendant's appearance,
byfiling a declaration in the original a~tion. This he contended
was a waiver of bail, and cited Highm. -t53. 157. Lilly P:
R. 86. Barnes. 257. Rich. Prac. 132. Poph. 145.
Heatly, in reply,urged that the Englh.b praftice had never been
extended here ; and if it-was, the declaration ought to have been
delivered, before it could have had effieO. 2 Term. ReP. I 12.
" Cromp. 94. Ipey. .Prac. 94. Rule. B. R 23. 24.
By THE COURT :--It has been the practice in PennfyhyaniA
to tie ieclarations before appearance. In the cafe of fummons
the aqt requires that it T(hould be filed
days before the return
day. ' It has never yet been determined, that the filing a declaration is a waiver of,bail: We have no fuch rule ; and, unlefs

fomc
-

CAsps

ruled and" adjudged in the

1.792. fome fubftantial benefit is to be derived from adopting the prar,

rtice contended for, the Court will not alter the ufual courfe.
Rule difcharged.

JACKSON

verfus

VANOERSPREIGLE's,

Executor.

T-HIS

was an a6tion brought to recover the amount of a
T.bond, in favor of the Teltatrix, which the Executor had
received. The plaintiff claimed it as a legacy, under the following words in the will : " Item, I give and bequeath'unto Mary
c Ja ckfon, wife of Milliam 7ackfon, all my wearing apparel,
-cchoufehold furniture, plate, linen, books, and every nzoveable
cc zvha foever." The Teftatrix then proceeds to give a variety
of legacies in caih, and bequeaths the reft and refidue of the
eftate to Samuel;_Robifon, and others. Her perfonal eftate was
about ,CZooo, principally out at intexeft ; but (he had no real
eftate.
Rawle, for the plaintiffi; urged, that the words were broad
enough to cover the debts due to the Teftatrix. He referred to
i -4tk. 7. 177. 1So. 4 Mod. 156. x rez.
12 Co. p. I.
369. 173. Co. 33. b.I P. Wns.267. Brown 127. and, without
reading the authorities. deflred that the ,point might be referred
e But, ut
:We have no doubt- at- prefent. The
BY :Tr
meaning of the Teftatrix is plain enough.. If the plaintiff's
conftru&ion were right, all the reft of the will would be deftroyed. In this cafe, moveables muft be confined to things of
the fame nature with thofe.before fpecified. Let there be a
verdift for the defendant, with liberty for the plaintiff to move
for a new trial, if, on coufideration, he think his pofition tenable.
XVerdi& for the Defendant..

:MJERCIER V.'fits MERcIER,

TI ilS caufe flood on the lift. for triaL. Dupneeaa mored

for a rule on the plaintiffto file his warrant caf Attorney.
But, By TH-E Couawr, :-It has been often ruled, that this.
-apilicatibn muft be made before plea pleaded. Rule rrefufed.
NESBIT-

