SuPRund,. COURT of ht UnitedSates.
to whom it belongs. We fhall, therefore, continue the in-.
jundion'till the next Term ; when, however, if Georgia has
'nor inflituted her affion at common law, it will be diffolved.*

CHISHOLm, Jx'r. iverfis. GEORGIA,

r-PtlS affion was. inflituted in Aigrit" Torm, t 79,.
Oft
the i ith of 7tdy, 1792, the Marfhall for the diftri& of
Georgia made the following return -"Executed as within commanded, that is to fay, ferved a copy thereof on, his excellency Edward Telfair, Efq. Governor, of the State of Georgia,
und one other copy on Tomas P. Garnes, Efq,. the Attorney
General of laid State.c RoBERT Foasyrn, Madhall."
Upon which Mr. Randolph the Attorney General of the
United States, as counfel for; the plaintiff, made the following
motion on the i ith of Autgtft, 179z. cc That unlefs the State
of Georgia, fball, after reafonable previous notice of this *motion, caufe an appearance to be entered, in behalf of the faid•
State, on the fourth day of the next Term, or fhall then {hew
caufe to the contrary, judgment fhall be entered againft the faid
State, and a writ of enquiry of damages fliall be awarded."But to avoid every appearance of precipitancy, and to give the
State time to deliberate on the meafures fhe ought to adopt,- on,
molion of Mr. Randolph, it was ordered by the Court,. that the-confideration of this motion fhould be poftponed to the prefent
Term. And now Ingeroll, and Dallas, prefented to the Court.
a written remonftrance and proteftation on, behalf of the State,,
-igainft the exercife of jurifdiaion in the caufe ; but, in, con-fequence of pofitive inftru&ions, they declined taking any part'
in arguing the queftion. The Attorney General,. therefore,.
proceeded as follows..
Randolph, for the plaintiff. I did not want the remonifrance
of Georgia, to fatisfy me, that the motion, which I have made
is unpopular. Before that remonftrance was read, I had learnt
from the als of another State, whofe will muft be always dear
to me, that fhe too condemned it. On ordinary occiafions,
thdfe dignified opinions might influence me greatly i but oa
Ggg 2
this ;
" An amicabe action was accordingly entered and tried at the bar
of the Supreme Court, in February Term 1794, (see 3 Vol. P. x.)
when a verdict was given for the Defendant (Brailsfort) and th-Ili.
unctlea was, of courfe, diffolved.

793.

420

CASES ruled anti adjudged in the

1793. this, which brings into queftion a conftitutional right, fupport.
ed by my own conviffion, to furrender it would in me he offi-.
cial perfidy.
It has been exprefted, as the pleafure of the Court, that the
motion hould be difcuffed, under the four following forms :
i/. Can the State of Georgia, being one of the. United
Sta:es of imerica, be made a party-defendant in any cafe, in
the Supreme Court of the United States, at the fuit of a private
citizen, even although he himfelf is, and his teftator was, a
a citizen of the State of South-Carolina ?
2d. If the State of Georgia can be made a party defendant
in certain cafes, does an affion of al/umtflt lie againift her ?
3 d. Is the fervice of the fummons upon 'he Governor and
Attorney General of the State of Georgia, a competent fervice ?
By what procefs ought the appearance of the State of
4 th.
Georgia to he enforced ?
iji. The Conifitution and Judicial Law are the fources
from which the jurifdidion of the Supreme Court is derived.
The effedfive paffages in the Conftitution are in the Ekcond fection of the third article. ,I The judicial power fliall extend
to controverfies between a State and citizens of another
State" c In cafes, in which a State fhall be a party, the Supicme Court ihall have original jurifdifion." The judicial
ad-t thus organizes the jurifdidion, delineated by the Conftitu.
tion. " The.Supreme Court flall have exclufive jurifdid'tion
of all controverfies of a civil nature, where a State is a party,
except between a State 'and its citizens ; and except, alfo, between a State and citizens of other States and aliens, in which
latter cafe, it fhall have original, but not exclufive jurifdic.
tion."
7Upon this bafis we contend,
. That the Conftitution vefts ajurifdidion in the Supreme
Court over a State, as a defendant, at the fuit of a private ci*tizen of another State.
2d. That the judicial ad recognizes thatjurifdidfion.
iA The Conftitution veils a-jurifdidion in the Supreme
Court over a State, as a defendant, at the fuit of a private citizen of another State. Confult the letter of the Conftitution,
or rather the influential words of the claufe in queftion. The
judicial power is extended to controverfies between a State and
citizens of another State. I pafs over the word, " between,"
as in no relpect indicating who is to be Plaintiff or who Defendant. In the fucceeding paragraph, we read a comment on
thele words, when It is faid, that in cafes, in which a State
fhall be a party, the Supreme Court fhall have original jurifdiction. Is not a defendhnt aparty as well as a plaintiff? If authority

'-y--.

SupitMs CouRT of the United States.
thority be necefrary for fo notorious a definition, recur to i -1793Harr. Cban. PraER. p. 35" where it is obferved, that cc in Lov
this Court," that is, in the High Court of Chancery of England, c4 fuits are generally commenced, profecuted, and de.
finded by parties, in their own names only." I might appeal
too to a work -f greater folemnity, and of greater obligation;
the articles of confederation. In defcribnlg the mode, by which
differences between two or more States ilsall be adjufted, they
fpeak of a day to be affigned for the appearance of thepartiesx
of eachparty alternately firiking the names of the perfons propofed as Judges ; of either party negleiting to attend ; of firking names in behalf of a party abfent ; of any of the PAR7:IEs
refuting to fubmit to the authority of the Court; and of lodg.
ing the fentence among the a~ts of Congrefs for the fecurity of
theparties concerned. Human gcnius might be challenged to
reftri&t thefe words to a plaintiff ftate alone. It is indeed true;
that according to the order in which the conttoverfies of a State
are mentioned, the State is the firit; and fom thence it may
be argued, that they muft be thofe in which a State is firft named, or plaintiff. Nobody denies, that the citizens of a State
may fue Foreign fubje&s, or Foreign fubjefts the citizens of a
State. And yet, the expreffion of the Conflitution is, " between a State or the citizens thereof, and Foreign States, citizens or fubjets:' The order in ,this in fIance, works no diffe.
rence. In common language too, it would not violate the fubflantial idea, if a controverfy, faid to be between A. B. and
C. D. fhould appear to be between C. D. and A. B. Nay
the opportunity fairly occurs in two pages of the judicial article,
to confine fuits to States, as plaintiffs; but they are both negle~ted, notwithiftanding the confcioufnefs which the convention
muft have poffieffed, that the words, unqualified, ftrongly trilded at leaft to fubje t States as defendants.
With the advantage of the letter on our fide, let us now advert
to thefpirit of the Conflitution, or rather its genuine and neceffary inteipretation. I am aware of thg danger of going into a

wide hiftory of the Confitution, as a guide of conflruftion
and of the till greater danger of laying any important ftrefs P'pon the preamble as explanatory of its powers. I refort, therefore, to the body of it ; which fhews that there may be various
aftions of States which are to be annulled. If, for example,
a State fhall fufpend the priviledge of a writ of habeas corpus,
unlefs when in cafes of rebellion or invafion the public fafety
may require it ;fhould pafs a bill of attainderor ex poslfa~to law;
fliould enter into any treaty, alliance, or confederation; fhould
grant letters of marque and reprifal ; flhould coin money ;
fhould emit bills of credit; fhould make any thing but. gold
and filver coin a tender in payment of debts, fliould pafs a
law

422i

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

1793. law impairing the obligation of contrafs ; flhould, withozr,
Sthe confent of Congreft, lay impoffs or duties on imports or cxports, with certain exceptions; Mhould, without the confent of
Congrefs, liy any duty on tonnage, or keep troops or fhips of
war in time of peace ; thefe are exprefsly prohibited by- the
Conflitution ; and thus is announced to the world the probability, but certainly the apprehenfion, that States may injure individuals in their propety, their liberty, and their lives; may
opprefs fiflter.States and may a& in derogation of the general
fovereigftty.
Are States then to enjoy the high priviledge of a&inthus eminently wrong, without controul ; or does a remedy
exifl: ? The love of morality would lead us to wifl that fome
check fhould be found ; if the evil, which flows from it, be
not too great for the good contemplated. The common law has.
eftablifhed a principle, that no prohibitory a& fhall be without
its vindicatory quality ; or, in other words, that the infra~ion
of a prohibitory law,. although an exprefs penalty be omitted,
is ftill punifhable. Government itfelf would be ufelefs, if a
pleafure to obey or tranfgrefs with impunity flould be fubfti"tuted in the place of a fandion to its laws. This was a juft
caufe of complaint againft the deceafed confederation. In our
folicitude for a remedy, we meet with no difficulty, where the
condu6t of a State can be ahimadverted on through the medium of an individual. For inftance, without fuing a State, a
perfon arrefied may be liberated by habeas cortts ; a perfon attainted and a eonvi6l under an ex poflafto law, may be faved;
thofe, who offend againft improper treaties, may be prote&ed,
or who execute them, may be punifhed ; the a&ors under letters of marque and reprifal may be mulc-ted; coinage, bills of
credit, unwarranted tenders, and the impairing of contra6ts
between individuals, may be annihilated. But this redrefs goes
only half way ; as fome of the preceeding unconifitutional actions muft pats without cenfure, unlefs States can be made defendants. What is to be done, if in confequefice of a bill of
attainder, or an cx _~fl faRvaJaw, the eftate of a citizen fball be
confifcated, and depofited in the treafury of a State ? What,
if a State fhould adulterate or coin money below the.Congreffional flandard, emit bills of credit, or ena& unconflitutional
tenders, for the purpofe of extinguifhing its own debts ? What
if a State fliould impair her own contra6&. ? Thefe evils and
others which might be enumerated like them, cannot be , corre&ed without a fuit againft the State. It is not denied, that
one State may be fued by another ; and the reafon would feem
to be the fame, why an individual, who is. aggrieved, Tlould
fae the State aggrieving.. A diftinction between the cafes i&
fupportable only on a fuppofed comparative inferiority of tdh
Platntiff
.

uPRmgIE CourT

of the United States.

413

Plaintiff. But, the framers of the Conftitution could never 1793,
have thought thus. They muft have viewed human rights in k-'
their efence, not in their mere form. They had heard, feenI will fay felt ; that Legiflators were not fo far fublimed above
other men, as to foar beyond the region of paffion. Unfledged as America was in the vices of old Governments, fhe had
fome incident to her own new fituation : individuals had beeni
vi'tims to the oppreffion of States.
Thefe dotrines are moreover juftified : rfi. By the relation
in which the States fand to the Federal Government: and,
2d. By the law of nations, on the fubje&t of fuing fovereigns ;
and, 3 d. They are not weakened by any fuppofed embarraflanent attending the mode of executing a decree againft a State.
fl. I aclnowledge, and fhall always contend, that the
States are fovereignties. But with the free will, arifing from
abfolute independence, they might combine in Government for
their own happinefs. Hence fprang the confederation ; under
which indeed the States retained their exemption from the fo
renfic jurifdidion of each other, and, except under a peculiar
modification, of the United States themfelves. Nor could this
be otherwife ; fince fuch a,jurifdidion was no where (according to the language of that initrument) exprefsly delegated.. This
Government of fupplication cried aloud for its own reform ;
and the public mind of Aimerica decided, that it m'uft perith of
itfelf, and that the Union would be thrown Into jeopardy, unlefs the energy of the general fyftem fliould be increafed. Then
it was the prefent Con ftitution produced a new order of things.
It derives its origin immediately from the people ; and the people individually are, under certain limitations, fu Ned to the
legflative, executive, and judicial authorities thereby eftabhiflied. The States are in fa6t affemblages of. thefe individuals
who are liable to procefs. The limitations, which the Fede.
deral Government -is admitted to impofe upon their powers, are
diminutions of fovereignty, at leaft equal to the making of
them defendants. It is not pretended, however, to deduce
from thefe arguments alone, the amenability of States to judicial cognizance ; but the refult is, that there is nothing in the
nature of fovereignties, combined as thofe of America are, to
prevent the words of the Conftitution, if they naturally mean,
what I have affertbd, from receiving an eafy and ufual conftruction. But purfue the idea a ftep farther , and trace one, out
of a multitude of examples, in which the General GoVernanent may be convulfed to its center without this judicial power.
If a State shall injure an individual of another State, the latter muft prote t him by a remonftrance. What if this be ineffeitual ? To flop there would cancel his allegiance ; one
tate cannot fuQ ?nothcr for fuch a caufc.; a quiefcence is not
to

424

CAsES ruled and adjudged in the

1793. be believed. The creft of war is next raifed the Federal
'v"head cannot remain unmoved amidft thefe fhocks to the public
harmony. Ought then a nece~'1ty to be created for drawing
out
the general force on an occafion fo replete with horror?
Is not
an adjuftment by a judicial form far preferable ?
peace and concord among the States two of the greatAre not
the Conflitution ? To be confifent, the opponents of ends of
my prin.
ciples muft fay, that a State may not befued by a foreigner.What ? Shall the tranquillity of our country be at
of every State? Or, if it be allowed, that a State the mercy
may be frued by a foreigner, why, in the fcale of reafon, may
not the,
.meafure be the fame, when the citizen of another State
is the
complainant ? Nor is the hiltory of confederacies wholly
ficient in analogy ; although a very ftri& one is fcarcely deto be
cxpe6ted. A parade of deep refearch into the Amphyffionic
Council, or the Ach-,ean league, would be fruitlefs,
from the
dearih of hiftorical monuments. With the belt lights
they
would probably be found, not to be pofitively identical
with'our
union. So liftle did they approach to a National Government,
that they might well be deftitute of a common judicatory.
So
ready were the ancient Governments to merge the
injuries to
indriduals in a State quarrel, and fo certain was it,
judicial decree muft have been enforced by arms, that that any
the
form of a legal difcuffion could not but be viewed with mild
indifferernce, if not contempt. And yet it would not be extravagant
to conje&ure, that all civil caufes were fuftained before
the Am.phyffionic Council.* What we know of the Achaan
confedgracy, exhibits it as purely national,or rather confolidated..-.'They had- common Magi Rrates taken by rotation,
towns ; and the amenability of the conffituent cities from the
to fome
Supreme Tribunal, is as probable as otherwife. But,
in
would be a wafle of time, to dwell upon thefe obfcurities.fa6, it
To
catch all the femblances 6f confederacies, fcattered
through
the hiftoric page, would be no lefs abfurd, than to
fearch for
light in regions of darknefs, or a ftable jurlfprudence
in the
midft of barbarity and bloodfhed. Advancing then,
into more
modem times, the Helvetic Union prefents itfelf; one
charag-teriftics it,, that there is no commonjudicatory. of whofe
Stanyan,
117- Nor, does it obtain in 'Holland. , But it
cannot be concluded from hence, that the .Swir or the Dutch, the
jealufy of
whom would not fuffer them to adopt a, National Government,
would deem it an abafement, to fummon a State, conneaed
as
the United Stater are, before a National Tribunal. But
our anxiety for precedents is relieved-by appealing. to the
Empire. The jumble of fifty principalities together Germanic
no more deferv s
See Anachars;s,'3 ro1 p. 300.
t See Gast's His. of.Gtccc, p. 321.
*

SLpmuE.s CotvPT of the UMited States.
t[ie name of one body, than the incoherent parts of deluchad- T793.
izazzar's image. The Princes wage war without the confent of
their paramount -fovereign; they even wage war upon cach
other ; nay upon the Emperor himfelf ; after which it will add
but little to fay, that they are diftina fovereignties. And, yet
both the ImperialChamber, and the Aulic Council hear and determine the complaints 6f individuals againft the Princes.*
It will not furely be required to affign a reafon, why the Confederation did not convey a fimilar jurifdiction ; fince that
fcanty and flri6t paper was of fo different a hue and feature
from the Conftitution, as fcarcely to appear the child of the
fame family.
I hold it, therefore, to be no degradation of fovereignty, in
the States, to fubmit to the Supreme Judiciary of the United
States. At the fame time, by way of anticipating an obje~aion,
I affert, that it will not follow, from thefe premifes, that the
United States themfelves may be fued. For the head of a confederacy is not within the reach of the judicial authorities of its
inferior members. It is exempted by its peculiar pre-eminencies. We have indeed known petitions of right, inonjtrantsdr
droit, and even procefs in the Exchequer. But the firfis in the
flyle of intreaty ; the fecond, being apparent upon the record,
is fo far a dedu&ion from the royal $itle ; the third, as in the.
banker's cafe in the i th volume of the State trials, is applicable only, where the charge is claimed againlt the Revenue ; and
all of them are widely remote from an involuntary fubjeClion,
of the fovereign to the cognizance of his own Courts.
2d. But what if the high independency of diffevered nationst
remained uncontrouled-among the ,UnitedStates,fo far as to place
the individual States no more within the fphere of the Supreme
Court, than one independent nation is within the jurifdiCtion
of another ? It has been a conteft amongft civilians, whethetr
one Phince found within the territory of another, may be fued
for a contra&.t I do not affert the affirmative ; but it is allowable to obferve, that fuch a pofition, once conceded, would illuftrate and almoft fettle the prefent inquiry. But the fame author, who repudiates the former idea, is ftrenuous in the opinion, that where the es,or property, of one Prince are
refted in the dominions of another, the proprietor Prince may
be fummoned before a tribunal of that other. No*, al.
though, each State has its feparate territory, in one fenfe, the
whole is that of the United States, in another. The jurifdi&ion
of this Court reaches to Georgia, as well as to Philadelphia. If
therefore, the procefs could be commenced in rem, the authority
Hhh
See Ifist. of Germane-Bo.1j, p. 157. 3,
j'nh. c- 3.

C. 4.

426
T793.

-',

CASES ruled and adjudged iithe

rity of Bynke;yhoeh would juftify us ; and whether it be eon,
menced in rein, or in peyfonain, the principle of amenability
is
equally avowed.
3 d. Nor will thefe fentiments be weakened by the want of
a fpecial provifion in the Conftitution for an execution ; fince
it is fo provided in no cafe, not even where States are in
tigation. This will be more properly arranged under the lifollowing head concerning the judicial at.
II. *r. The judicial a& recognizes the jurifdiclion. over
States. Inflead of ufing the firft expreffion in the Conftiturion,
to wit, " controverfies, between, &c." it adopts the fecond,
namely, " where a State flall bea party." Thus it makes
difin6jlion between aState as Plaintiff, or as Defendant ; n6
but
evidently comprehends in the word c patty" a State, as Defen
dant in one care at le'aft, where a State is-oppofed to a State.
This, after what has been faid, need not be further preffed.
2. The mafter-objeafion is, that the law has prefcribed
execution againft a State ; that none can be formned with no
propriety ; and that, therefore, a judgment againft a State mull
abortive. It is true, that no exprefs execution is given by be
the
judicial a& or the procdfs a&t. But has :itever been infinuated," that a difpute between two States is not within Federal
nizance, becaufe no execution is marked out ? Or, that cogfor a
like reafon, the Court, given by the confederation, could
not
proceed ?
The Supreme Court are either vefted with authority by
judicial a&, to form an execution, or po'ffefs it as incidental the
their jurifdition. By the 14th fedion of the judicial a6t, to
the
Supreme Court, as one of the Courts of the United States,
has
power to iffue writs of fi-re facias, habeas corpui, and all other

writs, not fpecia/y provided for by theflatute, 'which way
be nece/YJ;*ryjor the exercife of their ,'cfpeFtejurifdicimns, and
agreeable to
ik-eprincples and rfages of lawV. Executions for one State
againft

nnother, are writs not fpeciall, provided for by flatute, and
are
neceflary -for the cxercife of the jurifdiffion of the Supreme
Court , in a conteft between States ; and although, in neither
the common law, nor any flatute, the form of fach an execution appears ; yet is it agreeable to the principles and ufages
of
law, that there thould be a node of carrying into force a jurifdiffion, which is not denied. If then the Supreme Court
may
create a mode of execution, when a Stpte is defeated at law
a State, why may not'the fame means be exerted where an by
individtialis fiecefsful againfl a State ? Again: The procefs-ac6
which diftates the modes of execution to the other Courts,
filent as to the Supreme Court ; it muff, 'therefore, be eileris
wholly without executions, or deriVe them from the foregoing
fe.ion of thejudicial a6t, or adopt them, on-the ground of incidental

SuPRxuE

CouRT of the United.Stntes.

eddental power. The total negation of execution is. obvioufly
inadmiffible ; and the eonflru&ion of. the judicial a&,. which
has been juft infited on, would be fufficiently efficacious. But
why may not executions even fprinp, from the will of the
Supreme Court, as the writs of fieri fadas, levarifacias, and

diflringa were originally the creation of Courts ? Such an incidental authority is not of a higher tone than that of fine and
imprifonment, which belongs to every Court of record, without a pirticular grant of it. But what fpecies of execution can
be devifed ? This, though, a difficult tafl, is not impra&icable. And if it were incuinbent on -me to anticipate the mealures of the Court, I would fuggeit thefe outlines, of condu&.
Firft, that if the judgment be for the fpecific thing,, it may be
feized : or, fecondly, if for damages, fuch property may be taken, as, upon the principles, and under the circumfiances cited
from Bvnkerjoek, would be the gfoundwork of jurifdi&iqn over
a fovereign Prince- However, it is of no confequence, wheth'er the conjeclures.be accurate or not; as a corre&t plan can
doubtlefs be difcovered.
Still we may be preffed with the final- queftion": "- What if
the State is refolved to oppofe the execution ?" This would be
an awful -queflion indeed 1 He, to whofe 10t it fhould fall to
folve it, would be impelled to invoke the god of wifdom, to illuminate his decifion. I will not believe that lie would recal
the tremendous examples of vengeauce, which in paft days have
been infli6led by thofe who claim, againft thofe who violate,
authority. I will not believe that in the wide and gloomy theatre, over which his eye Thould roll, he might perchance catch
a diftant glimpfe of the Federal arm uplifted. Scenes like
thefe are too full of horror, not to agitate, not to rack, the imagination. -But at laft we muff fette on this refuh ; there are'
many duties, precifely defined, which the States muft perform.
Let the remedy whikh is to be adminiflered, if there fliould
be dif'beyed 4e the remedy on the occafion, whfich we contemplate. The argument requires no more to be faid : it fure:
ly does not require us to dwell on fuch painful pollibilities. Rather, let me hope aid pray, that not a fingle flar in the Znmericai.
Cotiftellation will ever fuffer its lufire to be diminiflied by
hoftility againit the fnteiic 0 a. Court, whicli itfelf, has
adopted.
But, after all, although no mode of execution fhould be in-.
tented, why fhall not the Cour.t proceed to judgment ? I" is.
well known, that the Courts of fbrne'Sta-rIs hav.e he:r diree'led
to rendhr judgment, and, there flop 1 and that the Chancery
has often tied up the hands of .the common law in a like manner. Perhaps, if a Governmentcould be conflitut:ed without
znintli1s at all the three orders of ower Courts fliould, intd.
-uah 2

1793.
,

CAsys tuled and adjudged iti the

428

i793. ri&t theery, 6nly declare thtlaw of' the cafe, and the M.
%w.- je&t upon which the execution is to be levied ; and fhould leave
their opini6ns to. be enforced by the Executive. But -that any
State fhould refufe to conform to a foleam determination of the
Supreme Court of the Union, is impoflible, until fl.e fhall
abandon her love of peace, fideity to compa~b and chate

d

oaer.

Combine then into one view, the letter and the fpirit of the
Conflitution ; the relation of the feveral States to the union of
the States ; the prec.edents from other fovereignties; the.judicial a&t, and procefs a&k; the power of forming executionss
the little previous importance of this power to that of rendering of judgment ; the influence under which e'very State muft
be to maintain the general harmony ; and the inference, will,
I 'truft, be in favor of the firff propofition; namely, that a
State may be fued by the citizen of another State.
II. The next queftion is, whether an a&ion of oflmpt
will lie againft a State ? I acknowledge, that it does not follow
from a State being fuable in tome a~tions, that fhe is liable in
every a~tion. But that of ajTumnpft is of all others moft free
f~rm cavil. Is not a State capable of making a prornife ? Certainly ; as a State is a moril perfon, being an affemblage of
'individuals, who are moral perfons. Vat. B. i f. 2. On
this ground, treaties and other compacts, are daily concluded
between nations. On this ground the United States and the
particular States have moved during and fince the war. On this
ground the Conflitution tranfmitted from the old to the new
Government all the obligations of the former'. Without it every Government muft iQagnate. But I fhall enter into this matter no further, as it is open for difcuffion in almoft every ftage
of the caufe.
Ill. I affirm in the thiid phce, that the fervice of the fummons on the Governor and Attorney-General, is a competent fervice: The fervice of procefs is folely for the purpofe of notice
to prepare for defence. The mode, if it be not otherwife prefcribed by law, or long ufage, is in the difcretion of the Court I'
and hltre that difcretionimuft. operate. The defence inuft reft
either U'oon the three branches of Government colleCtively, or
one of them. But, as the judiciary are manifeftly disjoined
from fuch an office, and. the legiflative are only to provide funds
to anfwer damages, the pHaice of confidering the Executive,
as the ofltenfible reptflenwaive of a State, devolves upon it this
funEtion. In the initance of Georgia, her Conflitution" eftablifhes the Governor as the channel of communication with
the Legiflature ; he is bound by oath to defend her; and lie has
inflituted a fuit; now depending in this Court, in her behalf,
againft Br;'ailtfrd, and others. It was fupererogation to ferve
the

SuPREmE COURT

of the United States.

thd procefs on the Attorney-General ; although this has fatisfied even etiquette itfelf, by notifying the officer, who is the inftrument of defence.
IV. As to the fteps, proper for compelling an appearance;
thefe too, not being di~tated by law, are in the breaft of the
Court. I banifh the comparifon of States with corporations ;
and, therefore, fearch for ho refemblance in them. I prefer
the fcheme contained in the motion ; becaufe it tempers with
nmoderation the preliminary meafures ; and pofipones embarrafTments, at any rate, until the clofe of-the bufinefs. It is unneceTary to fpend time on this head ; as the mode is to me
abfolutely indifferent if it be effeltual, and refpe~tful.
With this difcuffion, though purely legal, it will be impoflible to prevent the world from blending political confiderations.
Some may call this an atempt to confolidate. But before fuch
an imputation fhall be pronounced, let them examine well, if
the fair interpretation of the Confitution does iot vindicate my
opinions. Above all, let me. perfonally affure them, that the
proftration of State-rights is no obje&t with me ; but that I remain in perfe& confidence, that with the power, which the
people and the Legiflatures of the States indireffly hold over
almoft every movement of the N~ational Government, the States
need not fear an affault from bold ambition, or any approaches
of covered ftratagem.
The Court held the cafe under advifementr from the 5 th
to tLt x8th of .February, when they delivered their opinions
feriatim.
IREDELL, Jtyrice. This great caufe comes before the Court,
ozXa motion made by the Attorney-General, that an order be
made by this Court to the following effe& :-(( That, unlefs
4' the State of Georgia hall, after reafon ble notice of this mo" tion, caufe an appearance to be entered on behalf of the
faid State, on the f6urth day of next Term, or fhew caufe to
the contrary, judgment fhall be entered for the Plaintiff, and
a writ of enquiry ihall be awarded." Before fuch an order
be made, it isproper that this Court hould be fatisfied it hath
cognizance of the fuit ; for, to be fure we ought not to enter a
conditional judgment (which this would be) in a cafe where we
were riot fully periuaded we had authority to do fo.
This is the firft inflance wherein the important queftion involved in this caufe has come regularly before the Court. In the
Mdryland cafe it did not, becaufe the Attorney-GeneraI of the
8wtate voluntarily appeared. We could nor, therefore, without
the greateft impropriety, have taken up the queftion fuddenly.
That cate has fince been compromited.: But, had it proceeded
iotrial, and a verdi& been given for the Plaintiff, it would have
becn our duty, previous -to our. givixg judgment, to have well
confidered

1793.

430
6

CAsEs ruled and adjttdged in the

1793. confidered whether we were warranted 'in giving it. I had tlihm
great doubts upon my mind, and fhould in fuch a cafe, have.
propofed a difcuffion of the fubjea. Thofe doubts have in-,
creafed fince, and, after the fulleft confideration,'I have been
able to beftow on the fubjea, and the moft refpecqful attention.
to the able argument of the Attorney-Gen ral, I am now decidedly of opinion that no fuch a&ion as this before the Court
can legally be maintained.
The action is au aElion of affurpfit. The particular queftion.
then before the Court, is, will an aaion of- affumffit lie againft
a State ? This particular queftion (abftra&ed from the gene
ral one, viz. Whether, a State can in any inflance be fued ?)
I took the liberty to propofe to the confideration of the Attorney-General, laft Term. I did fo, becaufe I havre often found a
great deal of confufion to arife from taking too large a view at
once, and I had found myfelf embarraffed, on. this very fubje&t
until I conlidered the abftra& queftion itfelf. The, AttorneyGeneral has fpoken to it, in L4ference to my requeft, as he has
been pleafed to intimate, but he fpoke to this pa ticular queftion
flightly, conceiving it tobe involved in the general one ; and
after eflablifh g, as he thought, that point, he feemied to confider the other followed of courfe, He expreffedl indeed, fome
doubt how to prove what appeared fo.plain. If feemed to him
(if I recolle& right) to dcpend principally on the. folution of this
fimple queftion ; -can a State afflrme ? 'But the Attoney-General muft kno , that in .England, certain judicial proceedings
not inconfiftent with the fovereignty, may take place agaimft the
Crown, but that an. aaibn of Jigmpfit will not lie. Yet fdrely
the Zing can afflume •as welL-as a State. So. can the United
tate4 themfelves, as. well as any State in,the Union: .Yet, the
Attorney-General himfetf has taken.fome pains. to fhew, diatno
a&io whatever is. maintainable againft the Uuited States. I
fball, therefoxe, qonfine myfelf, as much us poffible, to ilie
particular qurftion. befote the Court though every thing I have
to fay upon it wil. efie& every kind of fuit, the obje- of which
is to compel the payment of money by a.State.
The-queftion., as I before obfeived, is,-wifl an afion of af,
finp/i lie againft a State? If it will, it muff be in virtue of
the Conftitution of. the Utited Statwr, and of fome law of COILgrefs conformable thereto The part of the Conflifution concerning the Judicial Power,. is as follo-vs, viz: drt. 3. fea. 2.
The Judicial Power fGhall extend, (r.) To.all cafes, in, law and
equity, arifing under the Confiitution, the laws of the United
States, and treaties made, or which fhall be made, under their
authority.' (2.) To all cafes afleffing Ambaffadors, or otherpublic Miniflers,, and Confuls ; (3.) To all cafes of Admiralty
ad Dait:te Juifdioi; (,V.) To controverfies to which fh.
Unit(d

Suntu

CobmT of the Urited State.

UnitedStates fhall be a'party ; (S.)To coiltroverfies between two 1793"
or more States ; between a State and citizens of another State; .. vvJ
between citizens of different States; between citizens of
the fame State, claiming lands under grants of different
States ; and, between a State or the citizens thereof, and foreign States, citizens or fubje&s. The Conftitution, theriefore,
provides for thejurifdition wherein a State is a party, in the
following inftances :- iS. Controverfies betvcen two or more
States. ad. Controverfies between a State and citizens of ar.o.
ther State. 3d. Controverfies between a State, and foreign
States, citizens, or fubje&s. And it alfo provides, that in all
cafes in which a State fhall be'a party, the Supreme Court lhall
have original jurifdiiort.
The words of the general judicial a&, conveying the autho.
rity of the Supreme Court, under the Conflitution, fo far as
they.concern this queftion, are as follow :-e7.
13. 'c That
the Supreme Court fhall have exclufivejurifdialion of all controverfies of a civil nature, where a State is a party, except between a State and its citizens; and except alfo, between a State
and citizens of other States, or aliens, in which latter cafe it
(hall have original, but not exclufive jurifdiffion. And 1hall
have, exclufively, all jurifdiaion of fuits or proceedings againft
Ambaffadors, or other public Minifters, or thieir domeflics, or
domeftic fervants, as a cdourt of law can have or exercife confiftently with the law of nations.; and original, but not'Cxclufive
jurifdiffion of. all fuits brotight by Ambaffadors, or other pub.
.lic Minifters, or in which a Conful, or Vice-Conful, fliall be a
party."
The Supreme Court hath, therefore, YIRST. Exdcufive jurifdiction in every controverfy of a civil nature : fl. Between two or
more States. 2d. Between a State and a foreign State. 3 d.
Where a fuit or proceeding is depending againft Ambafradors,
other public minifters, or their domeflics, or domeflic fervants.
-svcOND. Original,but not exclufive jurifdiion, ixg. between a
State and citizens of other States. 2d. Between a State and foreign citizens or fubje&s. 'Id.Where a fuit is brought byAmbaffadors, or other public minifters. 4 th, Where aconful or viceconful, is a party The fuit now before the Court (if maintainable at all" comes, within the latter defcription, it being a
fuit againft a State by a citizen of another State.
The Conftitution is particular in expreffing the parties who
may be the obje&s of the jurifdi&ion in any of thefe cafes, but
in refpet.to the fubje&t-matter upon which fuch jurifdiaiot
is to be exercifed, ufes -the word " controverfies" only. The
a& of Congrefs more particularly mentions civil contrqverfies, a
qualificatkm of the general word. in the Conftitutiodi, which I
" = t 4ou u v
reafonab-man will think well warranted, far

4

CAsEs ruled and adjiudged in the

1793. it cannot be prefumed that' the general word controeres
uwy..j was intended to include any proceedings that relate to criminal
cafes, which in all inifances that refpe& the fame Government,
only, are uniformly confidered of a local nature, and to be decided by its particular laws. The word " controverfy" indeed,
would not naturally juftify any fuch conftru6ion, but neverthelefs it was perheps a proper inftance of caution in Congr C%
to
guard againil the poffibility of it.
A gcneral queflion of great importance here occurs. What
controverfy of a civil nature can be maintained againff a State
by an individual . The framers of the Conflitution,'I prefume,
muft have meant one of two things : Either r. In'the conveyance of that part of the judicial power which did not relate to
the execution of the other authorities of ihe general Government (which it muft be admitted are full and, difcretionalryi
within'the reftridions of the Conflitution itfelf), to refer to antecedent laws for the conftrution of the general words they
ufe : Or, 2. To enable Congi-efs in all fuch cafeg to pafs all fuch
laws, as they might deem neceflTry and proper to carry the purpofes of this Conftitution into full effei, either a~folutely at
their difcretion, or at leaft in cafes where prior laws were deficient for fuch purpofes, if any fuch deficiency exifted.
The Attorney-General has indeed fuggefted another cortftru6tion, a conftru&ion, I confefs, that I never heard of before, nor can I now confider it grounded on any folid foundatiou, though it appeared to me to be the bafis of the AttorneyGeneral's argument. His conftru&ion I take to be this :cc That the moment a Supreme Court is formed, it is to exercife all the judicial power vefted in it by the Conftitution, by
its own authority, whether the Legiflature has prefcribed methods of doing fo, or not." My conception of the Conflitution
is entirely different. I conceive, that all the Courts of the. Uvited States muft receive, not merely their organization as to the
number of Judges of which they are to confilt ; but all their authority, as to the manner of their proceeding, from the Legifiaturc only. Ihis appears to me to be one of thofe cafes, with
many others, in which an article of the Conifitution cannot be
effeauated'without the intervention of the Legiflative authority.
There being many fuch, at the end of the fpecia, enumeration
of the powers of Congrefs in -the Conftitution, is this general,
one: ". To make all laws which fhall be neceffary and proper
for carrying into execution the foregoing Powers, 'and all other
powers vefted by this Conftitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any department or officer thereof." Nore
-will deny, that an a& of Legiflation is neceffay to fay, at leaft
of what number the Judges are to confift ; the Pro/dent with
the confent of the Senate could not nominate a number at their
difcretion.

Ir yip-

CouRT of the United Staksi

difcretion. The Contitution -intended this article fo'far at leaft 1793to be the fubje& of a Legiflative act. Having a right thus to
caablifl the Court, and'it being.capable of being cftdblJibed in
no other mantner, I conceive it neceffarily follows, that they
are alfo to direct the manner of its. proceedings. Upon this
authority, there is, that I know, but ore limit ; that is, " that
they flhall not exceed their authority." If they do, I have no
hefitation to fay, that any aS to that effe'&*ould be' utterly
void, becaufe it would be inconfiftent with the Conftitution,
which is a fundamental law paramqunt to all others, which we
are not only bound to confult, but fworn to obferve; and,
therefore, where there is an intefference being fuperior in
obligation to the other, 'We muft unqueftionabty -obey that in
preference. Subje& to this reftrifion, the whole bufinefs o
organizing the.Courts, and direfting the methods ef their proceeding where neceffary, I conceive to be in the difcretion of
Congrefr. If it fhl-Jl be found on this occafion, or on eny other,
that the remedies now in being are defetive, for any purpofe
it is their duty to provide for, they no doubt will provid others.
It is their duty to legyjlate fo far as is neceilary to. carry the Conflitution into effeS. It is oars only to judge. We have no reafon, nor any more right' to diftruft their doing their duty, than
they have to diftrult that we all do ours. There is no part of
the Conflitution that I know of, that authorifes this Court to
take up any bufinefs where they left it, and, in order that thepowers given in the Conflitfition may be in full afivity, fupply
their omiffion by making ;iew lazts for new cafes ; or, which I
take to be fame thing, applying oldprinciples to new cafes materially different from thofe to which they were applied before;
With regard to the Attorney-Gerferals dolrine of incidents,
that was founded entirely on the fuppofition of the other I have
been confidering. The authority contended for is certainly not
one of thole neceffirily incident to all Courts merely as fuch.
If therefore, this Court is to be (as I confidt-. it), the organ
of the CoYL/ilttion andthe law, not of the GCohfiution only, ,in
refpea to the manner of !is proceedings we mufft receive our
diretions from the Legifiature in this particular, and have'no
right to conftitute ourfelves an officina brevitan, or take any other fliort method of doing what the Conafitution has choferi
(and, in my opinion, with the moft perfe6t propiety) fliould be
done in anothet manner.
But the aSft of Congreft has not beent altogether filent upon
this fubjeS; The i 4 tb , ec. of the judicial a&, lirovides in
the following words -" All the before mentioned Courts of the
United States, fhall have power to iffue writs of f'irefacias, habeas calius, and all other writs not fpecially' provided for by ftatutef which may be necedfary for the exercife of their refpec<t*ie
jurifdt ions,
Iii

434

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

1793. jurif'dlit1ons, and agreeable to the pri.ciples .and ufages
of law."
Sfhef
words refer as well to the Supreme Court as to the
o ther Courts of the United &iatex. Whatever writs we iffue,
that are necefalry for the exercife of our jurifdiffion, muit
be
agrecable to tMe prin,-iples and ufager of law. This is a direffion,
I apprehend, we cannot fupercede, becaufe it may appear
to
us not fufficiently extenfive. If itbe not, we muft wait till
other remedies are provided by the ame'. authority. From
this
it is plain that the Legiflature did not chufe to leave, to
our
own difcretion the path to juftice, but has prefcribed one of
its

own. In doing fo, it has, I 'think, 'wifely, referred us to principles and ufages of' law already well known, and by their pre-

cifion calculated to guard againft that innovating fpirit of Courts
of Juftice, -*,hichthe Attorney.General in another cafe reprobkted with fo much warmth, and with whofe fentiments in
that
particular, I moft cordially join. The principles of law
to
'which reference is to be had, either upon the general ground
I
firif alluded to, or upon the pecial words I have above cited,
from the judicial a&, I apprehend, can be, either, ift. Thofe
of the particular laws of the State, againft which the fuit
is
brought. Or, 2d. Principles of law common to all the States.
I omit any confideration arifing-from the word" ufages,"
tho'
a ffill ifronger expreffion. In regard to the principles of
the
particular laws of thz State 6f Georgia, if they in any mannediffered, fo as to effe&t this queflion, from 'the principles
of
law, common to all the States, it might be "material to enqi~ire,
whether, there would be any propriety or congruity in laying
down a rule of decifion which would induce this confequence,
that an action would lie in the Supreme Court againft fome
States, whofe laws admitted of a compulfory remedy againt
their own Governments, but not againft others, wherein
io
fuch remedy was admitted, or which would require, perhaps,
if
the principle was received, fifteen different methods 6f proceeding againft States, all flanding in the fame political relation
to the general Government, and none having any pretence
to
a dflin6ion in its favor, or juftly liable to any diftin~tion
to
its prejudice. If any fuch difference exifted in the laws of
the
difterent States, there would feem to be a propriety, in order
to induce uniformity, (if a Conftitutionl power for that putpofe exifls), that Congrffs fhould prefcribe a rule, fitted to
this
new care, to 'which no equal, 'uniform, and impartial mode
of
proceeding could otherwife be applid.
But this point, I conceive, it is, unneceflary to determine,
becaufe I believe there is no doubt that neither in the Stata
now
in queftion, nor in any other in the Union, any particular Legiflative mode, authorifing a-compulfory fuit for the recovery
of
money againft a State, was in being either wheia the Conftitution

SUvrEmE CouRT of the UnitedSalte.
fion was adopted, or at the time-the judicial a& was paffed. 1793.
Since that time an a& of Affembly for fuch a purpofe has been
paffed in Georgia. But that furely could have no influence in the
confiru&ion of an a&t of the L'egiflature of the United States
pailid before.
The only principles of law, then, that can be regarded, are
thofe common to all the States. I know of none fuch, which
can affe& this cafe, but thofle that are derived from what is properly termed " thb iorfmon law," a law which I prefume is
the ground-work of the laws in every State in the Union, and
which I confider, fo far as it is applicable to the peculiar circuinftances of the country, and where no fpecial a&t of Legiflation controuls it, to be in force in each State, as it exyIed in
England, (unaltered by anyJtatute) at the time of the firflfttsement of the country. The flatutes of England that are in force
hi Anmerica differ perhaps in all the States ; and, therefore, it is
probable the common law in each, is in fome refpc6ts different.
But it is certain that in regard to any common law principle which
tan influence the queftion before us no alteration has been made
by any fatute, which could occafion the leaft material difference,
or have any partial effe&t. No other part of the common law"
of England, it appears to me, L-in have any reference to this
fubjeSt, but that part of it which prefcribes remedies againit the
crown. Every State. in the Union in every inftance where its
fovereignty has not beendelegated to the UnitedStates, I confider
to be as compleatly fovereign, as 'the United .States are in refpe& to the powers furrendered, The United Statbs are fovereign as to all the powers of Government a&ually furrendered :
Each State i.the Union is fovereign as to all the powers refrved. Itmufz neceffarily be fo, becaufe the United Statos have no
claim to any authority but fuch as. the States havefurrenderedto
them': Of courfe the part not furrenderred muft remain as it
did before. The powers of the general-Government, either of
a Legiflative or Executive nature,, or- which particularly
concerns 'Treaties with Foreign Powers, do f6r the moft part
(if not-wholly) affe& individuals, and not States-: T"hey require
no aid from any State authority.. This is the great leading
diftin~tion between the old articles, of confederation, and the
prefent conftitution. The Judicial power is of a peculiar kind.
It is indeed commenfurate with the ordinary, Legiflative and
Executive powers of the general government, and the Power
which concerns treaties. But it alfo goes further. Where certain parties -aeconcernedi although the fubjet, inwcontroverfy
does not relate'to arty of the fpecial obje&s,of authority of the
general Government,. wherein the feparate foyexeigiaties, of the
States are blended in one eommon-mafs of fupremacy, yet the
&eneral Government has a Jadicial Authority-ii- regayA to fuclk
.fubje&la
Iii 2

436
1793.
sYc',

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

fubjels of controverfy, and the Legifl-ture of the Uiited ratet
may pafs all laws ncceiTary to give fuch Judicial Authority its
proper efii t. So-far as States under the Conflitution can be
made legally liable to this authority, fo far to be fure they are
fubordinate to the authority of the Unitcd States, and their individual fovereignty is in this refpe limited. But it is limited no farther than the neceffary execution of fucli authority requires. The authority e tei is only-to the decifion of controverlies in which a State is a party, and providing laws ncceflary
for that purpofe: That furely can refer only to fuch controveries in which a State can be a part) ; in refpea to which, if any
quefion arifes, it can be determined, according to the principles I have fupported, in no other manner than by a reference
either to pre-e_-iftnt laws, or laws paffed under the Conflitution
gnd in conformity to it,
Whatever be the true conrfru&ion of the Conflitution in
this particular ; whether it is to be conhIrued as intending merely a transfer of jurifdi&ion from one tribunal to another; or as
authorifing the Legiflature to proyide laws for the decifion of all
poffible controverfies in which a State may be involved with an
individual, without regard to any prior exemption ; yet it is certain that the Legiflature has in .h& proceeded upon the former
fuppofition, and not upon the latter. For, befides what I no-,
ticed beforc as to an exprefs reference to principles and ufages
of law as the guide of our procceding, it is obfervable that in.
inflances like this before the Court, this Court hath a concurre1rtj,rifd;7ioti only ; the prelent being one of thofe cafes where
by the judicial p&t this Court hath mriginal but not exclu'/ve jitu
rifdi&ion' This Court, therefore, under that a,-can cxercife
no authority in fuch inftance4, but fich authority as from the
fubjea matter of it may be exercifed in fome other Court.'here are no Courts with which fuch a concurrence can be fuggefted but the Circuit Courts,. or Courts of the different States.
With the former it cannot be, for admitting that the Conftitu.
tion is-not to have a reftri&ive operation, fo as to confine all
cafes in which a State is a party exclufively to the Supreme Court
(an opinion to which I am Qrongly inclined), rcc there are no
words in the definition of tle powers of the Circuit 'Court
which give I colour to an opinion, that wh re a fuit is brought
againft a State by a citizen of another State,.the Circuit Courz
could exercife anyjurifdifion atall, If they could, however,
fuch ajurifdiaion, by the very -teras of their authority, could
be only concurrent with the Courts of he feveral States. It
follows, therefore, unqueflionably, I'think, that looking at the
c of Congrefs, which I confider is on this occafion the limit
4f our authority (whatever further might be conflitutionaly,
ftaaedl) we 4az e ercife n authority in the prefent inftanc e

confiftext1t

SUoPREME COURT of thi UnitrdStates.

coalftently with the clear intention of the a&, but fpch as a 1793
proper Slate Court would have been at leaft comepetent to ex- tovywj
ercife at the time the a&t was pal d.
If -therefore, no new remedy be provided (as plainly is the
cafe), and confequently we have no otherrule togovem us but
the principles of the pre .exiient laws, which muft remain in
force till fuperceded by others, then it is incumbent upon us
to enquire, whether previous to the adoption of the ConfLitution (which period, or the period of paring the law, in refpe&
to the obje& of this enquiry, is perfeffly equal) an -acion of
the natuve like this before the Court could have been maintained
againft one of the States in the Union upon the principles of the
common law, which I have ihewn to be alone applicable. If
itcould, -I think it is now maintainable here: If it could not, I
shink,. as the law ftandstat prefent, it is not maintainable ; what.
ever opinion may be entertained; upon the conrftrufion of the
Conrfitution, as to the power of Congrefs to authorife fuch a
one. Now I prefume it will not be denied, that in every State in.
the Union, previous to the adoption of the Conflitution, the
only common law principles in regard to fuits that were in any.
manner admiffible in refpe& to claims againft the State, were
thofe which in England apply to claims againft th'e crown; there
being certainly no other principles. 6f the common law which,
previous to the adoption of this Conrifitution could, in any
manner, or upon any colour, apply to the cafe of a claim agaifift
a State in its own Courts, where it was folely and completely Lovereign in.refpe6 to fuch cafes at leaft. Whether that reme.
dy was ftri&ly applicable or not, fRill I apprehend thet was no
other. The only remedy in a cafe like that before the Court, by
which, by any poffiblity, a fuit can be maintained againft the
crown in England, or could be at any period from which the
common law, as in force inAmerira, could be derived, I believe is
that which is called a Petition of right. It is flated, indeed, in
Com. Dig. i65. That G"until the time of Edward I. the King
might have been fued in all actions as a common perfon." And
fone authorities are cited for that polition, though it is even
there flated as.,a doubt, But the fame authority adds-" hut
now none can have an action agajnft the Kitig, but one thall be
put to fue to him by petition." This appears to bea quotation
or .abftra& from Tbeloall's Digeft, which is alfo one of -the authorities quoted in the former cafe. And this book appears
(from the law catalogue) to have been printed fo long ago as the
year 1579. The fame doctrine appears (acc ording'to a quotation in Blackfone'is Commentaries, r 7o!. 243) to be flated n
.Finch's Law 253, the firif edition of which, it feems, was
publiflied in t579. This alfo more fully appears in the care of
the Bankers, and particularly froxn tha celebrated argument of
Lord

438
t

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

1793. Somers, in the time of TV. 11,. for, though that cale was ultimately decided againft Lord Somerj's opinion, yet the groun&
on which the decifion was given no way invalidates the reafoning-of that argument, fo far as it refpe&s the fimple cafe
of a fum of money demandable from the King, and not by himfecured on any particular revenues. The cafe is reported 'irk
Freeman, rol. I.p. 331. 5 Nod. 29. Slinn. 6o r. and lately very elaborately in a fmall pamphlet publifhed by Mr. iargrave, which contains all the rep~rts at length, except SkiNner's,
together with the argument at large of Lord Somers ; befides
fome additional matter.
The fubftance of the cafe was as follows :-King GCarlep
H_. having xeceived large fums of money from bankers, on the
credit of the growing produce of the revenue, for the payment
of which, tallies and orders of the.Exchequer were given,(afterwards made transferable by ftatute) and the payment of thefr
having been afterward poftponed, the King at length, in order
to relieve the Bankers, in 1677, granted annuities to them out
of the hereditary Excife, equal to 6 per cent intereft on their feveral debts, but redeemable on payment of the, principal. This
intereft was paid 'till 1683, but it then became in arrear, and,
continued fo at the Revolution; and the fuits which were commenced to enforce the payment of thefe arrears, were the fubje& of this cafe. The Bankers prefented a petition to the' Ba-.
Yons of the Exchequer, for the payment- of the arrears of theannuities granted ;.to which petition-the Attorney General demurred. Two points were made: Firl, whether the gr^=t out
of the Excife was goddr ; fecond, whether a petition to the Barons of the Elchequer was a proper remedy. On'the firft point.
the whole Court agreed, that in general the King could alienate
the revenues ef the crown ; but Mr. Baron Lechmere, differed
from the other Barons, by thinking that this particular, revenue
of the Excife, was an exe eptiorn to the general- rtk, But all
agreed, that the petition was a proper remedy. Judgment was
therefore given for' the petition by dire6lng payment to the
complainants at the receipt of the Exchequer. A writ ofError
was brought on this judgment by the Attorney (feneral in the
Exchequer-Chamber. There alithejudges who argued held the
grant .out of the Excife good. A majority of them, including
Lord Chief Juftice Holt, alfo approved of the remedy by petition to the Barons. But, lord Chief Juftice Treby was of opinion, zthat the Barons qf the, Exchequer were not authorifed.
to make orderfor payments on the receipt of the Exchequer,.
nnd, therefore, that the remedy by petiion -to*the Barons was
inapplicable. In this'opinion Lord Some,4 concurred. A doubt
then arofe, whether the Lord Chancellor. and -Lord High Trea.

qxr
q at liberty to ie judmpt .arding- to their own
opniQV

SmYREM.E COURT

of the United States.

,opinion, in oppofiti6n to that of a majority of the attendant [793Yudges ; in other words, whether the Judges called by the Lord t
Chancellor and Lord' High Treafu'rer were to be confidered as
mere alliltants to them without voices. The opinion of theJudges
being taken on this point, feven againif three held, that the
Lord Chancellor and Lord Treafurer were not concluded by the
opiinions of the Judges, and therefore that the Lord Keeper in
the cafe in queftion, there being then rlo Lord Treafurer, might
give judgment according to his own opinion. Lord Smear
concurring in this idea, reverfed the judgment of the Court of
Exchequer. But the cafe was afterwards carried by error into
Parliament, and there the Lord reverfed the judgment of th*
Exchequer-Chamber, and affirmed that of the Exchequer.
However, notwithftanding this final decifion in favour of the
Bankers and their creditors, it appears by a,fubfequenr flatute,
that they were to receive only one half of their debts ; the a z
and 14 .V"3. after appropriating certain rums out of the hereditary Excife for public ufes, providing, that in lieu of the
annuities granted to the Bankers and all arrears, the hereditary
Excife fhould, after the 26th of December 16oi, be charged
with anniual Frms equal to an intereft of three per cent, till redeemed by payment of one nioiety of the principal fums. Hargrave's cafe of the Bankers, 1, 2, 3.
Upon perufing the whole of this care, thefe inferences naturally follow :- r/7. That admitting the authority of that decifion in its fulleft extent, yet it is an authority only ih refpte&
to fuch cafes, where letters patent from tre crown have beeni
granted for the payment of certain fums out of a particuL-r revenue. 2d. That fuch relief was grantable in the *Exchequer,
upon no other principle than that that Court had a right to direr the iltues of the Exchequer as well after the money was
depofited theae as while (in the- Exchequer language) it was in
lraq/tu. 3 d. That fuch an authority could -not have been exercifed by any other Court in Wfeflmitler-'Hall, or bkr any Court
that from its particular conftitution bad no conrroul g-'er the revenues of the Kingdom. Lord C. . Holt, and. Lord Somerr
(though they differed in the main point) both agreed in that
cafe, that the Court of King's bench could not fend a .writ to
the Treafury.
-argrate's cafe, 45, 89, Corifequently, no
fuch remedy could, kinder any circumftances, I apprchrd, be
aflowed in any of the American States, in' none of which itis
prel'umed any Court of Juftice hath any exprefs, authority over
the revenues of the State fuch as has been attributed to the Court
of Exchequer in England.
The obfervations of Lord Somers, concerning the general rcmedy by petition to the Kig, have been extraced anl-d. eferied
to by forne of the ableft law churaaers fincw; partkularly by
Lord

440

OAsns ruled and adjudged In the

1793. Lord C. Baron Comyns in his 'digeft. I mfall, therefotre, e
-".Jtra&fome of them, as he apppars to have taken uncommon
pains to colled all, the material learning on the fubjed ; and
indeed is faid to have expended feveral hundred, pounds in the
procuring of records relative to t, .A cafe. Hargrave's preface
to the iafe of the Bankers.
After citing many authorities, Lotd.Sonzersp
proceeds thus:---" By all thefe authorities, and, by many others, which I could
'cite, both ancient and modern, it is plain, that if the fubjedt
was to recover a rent, or annuity, or other chare from the
crown ; whether it was a rent or annuity, originally granted by
the King , or iffuing out of lands, which by fubfequent title
ca~he to be in the Kingls hands'; in all cafes the remedy to come
at it was by "petition to the perfon of the King : and no other
method can be thewn to have been pradifed at common law.
Indeed I take it to be generally true, that in all cafes where th6
fubjec is in the nature of a Plainti, to recover any thing
from the King, his 'only remedy, at common law, is to fue by
Petitionto the perfon of the King. II fay, where the fubjed
comes as a Plaint'/f. For, as I faid before, when, upon a title
.found for the -kngby ofice, the fubje& comes in to"-traverfe
the King's title, or to fliew his own right, he comes in the na..ture of a Defendant j and is admitted to interplead in the cafe
with, the King in defence of his title, which otherwife would be
def,:ated by finding the office. And to fhew~hat this was fo, I
would take notice of feveral inftances. Tlat, in cafes of debts
owing by the crown, the ftibjed's remedy'was by Petitiom, appears by AynfIham's cafes Ryley, 25 1. which. is a petition for
,C!9. due for Work done- at Carnarvon caftle. Solyley 25!.
The exeeutors of John Eftratdingpettionfor £32. due to the
teflator for wages. ,The afffwer is remarkable ; for there is a
latitude taken, which Will very well agree with the notion that
"s talen up in this cafe; Uabeqnt bre. de liberate itn Canc. thei/
Ef camera. de t32. in paten folutionis. So the -cafe of %Tr.•tvtrd'de Gafrys, for'£56. Rley 414. , In like manner in the
fame book 253. 33.- ,Ed. L feveral parties fre by petition for
money and goods taker fpr the King'sufe; and alfo for wages
due to them ; and for cebts owing to them by the King. " The
anrweiis, Rex ordinavit per concilium thefauraril'& baronum defeaecario, quodfatisjset iis quam citiusfieri poterit ; ita quod canter:..A
tosft teneb'unt. And this is an anfwer, given to a petition -prefented to the King in Parliament; and therefore we have reafon
to, cbnclude it to be warranted by law.' They muff be content,
kpd they fiall be paid, quam citius-fieripotee't. - The- parties,
4', thefe cafes, firft go to the King by petition,: it is by him
, y. af.fent to the Exchequer and it is by writ under the
great P', that the Excheqner i.s. inpowered to ad. Nor can

SUPRtE

COURT

of the Mimi!States.

any fuch writ be found (unlefs in a very few inflances, where r79- ,
it is mere matter of account) in which' the Treafucr is not ue-i-.J
joined with the Barons. 'So far was i from being taken to be
law at that time, that the Birons had any origindl power of
paying the Kitig's debtft; or df commanding annuities, granted by the King or his progenitors, to'be paid, whein the per;,
fon applied to them for ftch payment. But perhaps it may
be objeded, that it is not to be infer'red, becaufe petitions were
brought in thefe cafes, thaf therefbre it was of neceffity that
the fubje& fhoukl purfue that courfe, and could take no other
way. It might be reafonable to reqtiire from thofe who obje&
thus, that they fhould produce fome precedents at leaf , of
another remedy taken. Bti I think there is a good anfwer to
be given to this obje&ion. All thefe petitions which I have
mentioned, are after the Stat. 3 Ed. L R yly 442, where noz.
tice is taken that the bfines of Parliament i. interrupted by a
multitude of pefitio 's, tvhich might be redr d by the Chancellorand
vuflices. Wherefore it is thereby ena&edi th-!t petitinr which
touch the fealihallcome firfl to t.e Chancellor; "thofe zvhich toucb
tke Exche~uer, to the Exchequer , and thofe 'which toucb the Yqfrices, or the l/zw of the land, Jhoud irome to't4h Aaices; and if

the hufnyi Zefo great, orfi dt gracethat I4k.Cbace11or, or others,

.rann.tdo them 'ithout the King) thenthe- .'-tions.Jhall be brought
before the King to know his pleafure ; fo that no petitions comi
before the King and his Council, but by the hands 6f the Chancellor, anti -other rhief Miniers - that the King and his Council
may attend the gratafairv of the King'c Realm, and hisfovereigi
dominitus." This law being made; there is reafon to conclude
that all petitions brought before the King or Parliament afteir
this time, and anfwered there, were brought according to tbh
methbd of this law ; *nd were of the nature of fuch petitions as
ought to be brought before the perfon of the King. And that
petitions did lie for a chattel, as well as for a freehold, does
appear $7 A.dp ii. Br
i r Pet 17. If tenant by the ftatute
merehant be oufted, he may have petition, avd fhall bereftot.
ed. Fide 9 H. 4. 4. Bro. Pet. 9. 9. H. 6. 2t. Bro., Pet.
2. .If the fubjectbe oufted of his terrn, he flhall
have hi-k
petition. 7. H. 7. ii. Of a chattel teal a xnan.fhall have hii petition of right, as of hi freehold4 84. H. 6. 5i. Bra. Pet. 34
A nman fhall haVre a petition of right for goods and chattels
and the King indorfes it in the uftial form, It is faid inieed, x
I. 7- . Bra. Pet. 19. that a petit~on will not lie of4 chattel.
And. admitting there was gny deubt as to that point, i t tbh
prefent fuit we are in the cafe of a freehold." Lord Smere'
argument in Harkrave'scafe of the Bankers, xo3 to 105.

The folitary cafe, noticed at the conclufion of Lord omtr/s
argument5 " that a petitiQn will not lie of a ehattel," crtainly
Kkk
is

44-2

tAs.s ruled -xtd adjudged int.

1793- is deferving of no confideratioh, oppofed to fo mariy,other In*
flances mentioned, and unrecognized (as [ believe it is) by any
other authority either ancient or modern, whereas the cofitrary, it appears to me, has long been received and .eflablilhed lawi
In Comyns's Dig."4 P'0L 458. It is faid exprefsly cc fuit. fhall
be tp the King by petition, for goods- as well as for land." He
cites'Statmzdf. Prvr 75. b. 72. b. for his autl ority, tnd takes
no hotice of any authority to the contrary. The fame do&rine
is alfo laid down with equal explicitnefa, and without noticing
any diftin&ion whatever, in Blacflone's Commentaries, 3 V0l
256. where he points out the petition of .ght" as one of the
common law methods of obtaining poffeflion or reftitution fro'n
the crown, either of real or perfonal property; and fays exprefsly the petition of' right " is of ufe where the King is in full
poffeffion of any hereditaments or rhattde, and the petitioner
fuggefts fuch a right as controverts the title of.the crown,
grounded on fa&s difclofef in the petition itfelf."
I leave out of the argument, -from which I have made fo long
a quotation, every thingconcerning the reftri~lion on the Exchequer, fo far as it concerned the cafe then before the Court, as
Lord Somers (altlough more perhaps by weight of authority
than reafoning) was over-ruled in that particular. As to all
others I confider the authorities on which he relied, and his dedu&ioft from them, to be Vnimpeached.
MBackfone, in the firft volume of his commentaries (p. 203),
eaking of demands in point of property, upon the King, ftates
e general remedy thus :-. If any p~rfon has,'in point of
property, ajuft demand upon the King, he xnuft petition him
in hi3 Court of Chancery, where'his Chancellor -will adminif-,
ter right, as a matter Of grace, though not'-upon-compulfion.
(For which he cites Finch L. 255.4 9 And 'this is exa6ty con.
fonant to what Is laid down by the writers on natural law.A fubje&, fay Pufendorf, long as he continues a fdbje&, hath
no way to oblige his Prince to give him his due when he refufes
it; though no wife Prince will ever refufe to iRand to a lawful
contraa. And if the Prince gives the fubje& leave to, enter
an aftion againft him upon fuch contra&, in his own Courts,
the aaion itfelf proceeds rather uponi natural equity, than up.
on the'municipal laws. For the end of fuch a6ion is. not
to romld the Prinie to obferve the contra q, but to puijuade
him."
It appears, that when ;r petition to the perf9p of the King is
properly prefented, the ufual way is for the King to indorfe or
underwrite, fdit droit fair' al partie, (let right jbe done to the
party) ; upon which, unlefs the Attorney-Gendrai confeffes the'
fuggeftiona commiflion is iffued to enquire into the truth'of itI
after the.return of whichi, the King's attorney is at libcrty to
plead

'-.-x'-d

upREME Cotxir of the United Stae.
plead in bar, and the merits fhall be determined upon iffhe or
demurrer, as in fuits between fubjek and fubjea: If the At.
torney-General confeffes tb- fuggeft-lon there is no occafion for
of the truth of the fa6ls being equaladmiffliun
his
a commiffion,
ly conclufive as if they had been found by a jury.-See 3 Blackflon/s Comnentaries 256. and 4, Con. Dig 458. and the authorities there cited. Though the above mentioned indorfe-.
ment be the ufual one, Lord &omers, in the courfe of his, voluminois fearch, difcovered a variety ef other anfwers to what he
confidered were unqueftionable petitions of right ; in refp-e&
to which he obferves: " The truth is, the manner of anfwcring petitions to the perfon of the King was yery various; which
variety did fometimes arife from the conchifion of the party's
petition ; fometimes from the nature of the thing and fometimes from favour to the perfon ; and according as the indorfement was, the party was fent into Chancery, or the other Courts.
If the indorfement was general, foit droit fidt al partie, it muft
be delivered to the Chincellor of England, 'and then a. commiffion was to go tq find-the ri.ght of the party ; abd that being
found, fo that there was a record fo rhim, thus warranted, he is
let in to interplead with the King : but if, the indorfement was
fpecial, then the proceeding was to be accor<!ing to the indorfement in any other Court. This. is fully explained by Stanftrd
(Staundfort) in his treatife of the Prerog. c. 2.. The cafe
.Mkch. mo H. 4- 4. no. '8. is full as to this matter. TI'he King
recovers in a Quareinpedit by default againft one who was never fummoned S the party cannot have a writ of dec,,ii with6ut
a petition. If then, raiys the book, he conctudes his, petitiorn'
generally cc que le Roy 1ui face droit" (that the king will caufe
right to be done) and the anfwer be general, -it mltf go intothe Chancery, that the right may inquired of by commiftion '
and, upon the inqueft found, an original writ muft be direefed
to the Juffices to examine the deceit z. otlerwife, the Juffices.
beere whom the fuit was, cannot niedidle : But if he conclude
his vetition efpecially, that it may 'pIefe his H-ighzlfs to Lomand
h uflices to. proceed to the examination, and.the indorfement be
accordingly, that had gtven the Juftices a jurifdicton., They
might in fuch cafe have proceeded upon the petition without
any comnilfipn, or any writ to be fued out ; the petition and
anfwer indorfed giving a fuftcient jurifdi&ion to.the Court to.
which it was. direded. Andas the book I have mentioned.
proves this, fo many, other authorities. 'may be citel" Ie accordinglyjmentions many other mfkances, inmattrial to be recitechere, particularly remarkng a very extraordary diffiernce in
-ie cafe belonging to the revenue, in regard to which he faid.'.
he thought there was not an inftance to be found where petiwae anfwcred, foit droit.fait aux tartis(let right be done
i-'s$
Kkk 2

r 797"

444

CAs~s ruled and.adjudged in the,

t113- to the parties): The uftial reference appears to have been to the.
v% Tieafurer and Barons, commanding them to do juRice : Some-,
times a writ finder the great feal was direaed td be iffued to
them fdr that purpofe : Sometimes a writ from the Chancery
dire&ing payment of money iimediately, without taking not'ce of the Barons. And other .varieties appear to have taken
place.. See Hargravs.r af f Me,Ranker:, p. 73, &feq.

But

in all cafes of petitiov of right, of whatever nature is the demand, I think it is clear bIeyod all doubt, that there mi i e
fome ind femenf- or order of the Khvg hitrjf

to warrant any

f

her oceeding:. -te remedy, inthe language of .Bla4/1ones
1?eimg a matter of gra4e aid not o cmpafio.
nidn
I was incidentally
th 'point
Inavry l~te cafe it E-ngIand,
this
a
dlfcued. "The care I refer to, is the cafe of kaebeath againfr
.&Ialdimaud, reported # :Dur,#[rd &7 Rart 72." The a&ion

:was againft theDeferia"at, for goods fttrnifhed by the Defendant's order in Canada, when the Defendant was Governor of"
Q uebec. The defence w.as, that the Plaintiff was employed by
the Defendant in his official Qapacity, nd noi uF on his perfonal,
credit, and that be go~ds being therefore ftrnified for. the uf.
*of. Government; arnd'the Defetailant not having widertaken per"pay, he wasofnottheliable,
fet up by
at
the Jury,
, ad was
iffdefence
geneaIThis
•fonally
thetrialto.onthe.plea
Jndg Buler'. dire¢ion, found a verdi& for the Defendant.
Ulgon
a motion
fct a newand
trial
trithe the
had been at all
opinion particu4arly
faidhehisreported
ire-idence,
fats given
"a1that the l~aintiffthlould be ncn-fuited i9hen"he
' was
bttthe
he left
called,PlaintifF's
counfel appearingfor their client,
to find
bound
were
they
tat
them
the quef ion to the Jury, telling
for the Defendant mn point ot law. And upon their atimg him
whether, in the vent of the Defendantnot being liable, any other
Gart
of their confideraion
e th at wase no
pe''fon was, he told
but
n to
give themthe
any informat'on,
he were
added,juft,
that his
~e.
Tw's
P-aintif
thatif
of opinion,
wasbeing7mt'
proper remedy
was by a P~etition of right tO the crown. On
which they foun d a verdi& for the Defendantu The rule for.
grantin.ga new trial was ioved for, on the nifdire&ion of two
. That the Defendant had.by his own condu& made
points.fv
himfelf liable, which queTion Ihould have been left to the Jury.
2zdly. That the Plaintiff had no remedy againft the crown by a
.Petition of right, on the fuppofition of which the Jury had
taneiDd, Chief
fLord
been induced to give their verdi&."
Juftice, now declared; that the Court
did not feel it ne'ceffary
for them to give any opinion on the fecond grond. tHis Lordfaiip
Laid that great difference had arifenpublid
inct the
revolution
withrethat
' Before
aoney
fpe to the expenditure of the
fiug,
.who in
the
to
given
were
al!the public fupie
nerod,
.g

an

heehi

SUFRUMn CoURT of the Un;kte

States.

isindividual capacity contrated for all expences. He alone 1793.
liad the difpofition of the public money. But fince that time L -e.
the fupplies hz d been appropriated bvy Parliament to particular
purpofes, anf now, whoever advances money for the public
fervice trufts to the faith of Parliament. That according to the
tenor of Lord Somers's arguqient in the Bankers cafe, though a
Fetitiop1 of right would lie, yet it would probably produce no
effea. No benefit was ever derived from it in the Bankers
cafe ;- ind Parliament was afterwards obliged to provide a parti.
cular fund for the payment of thofe debts. Whether, however,this alteration in the mode a f-diftributing the fupplies had made
any difference inthe law upon this fubje&, it was ununeceffary
to determine ; at any rate, if there were a:recovery againft the
crown, application mut he made to Parliament, arid it would
come under the head of fupplies for the year." The motion was
afterwards argued op the other ground (with which I have at
prefent nothing to do) and reje(ted.
In the old guthoritie, there does not appear any diffincaion
between debts that might be contra&ed perfonally by the ring,
for his own private ufe, $rtd fuch as he contradled in his politi4al capacity for the fervice of the kingdom.
As he had however then fixed and hidependent revenue's, upon which depended
the ordinary fupport of Government, as well as the expenditure
for his own private occafions, probably no material diflin&ion at
that time exifted, or could eafily be made. A very important
diftin&ion may however perhaps now fubfift between the'two
cafes, for the teafons intimated by Lord Afanqfld; fince the
whole fupport of Government depends now on Parliamentary
provifions, and, except in the cafe of the civil lift, thofe for the
wolft part annual.
Thus, it appears, that in England even in cafe of a private debt
contraCted by the Zing, in his own perfon, there is no remedy
but by petition, which muf receive his exprfs fan&ion, otherr
wife there can be no proceeding upon it. If the debt contra&ed be avowedly for the public ufe, of Government, it is at leaft
doubtful whether that remedy will lie, and if it will, it remaiiis
afterwards in the power of Parliament to provide for it or not
among the current fupplies of the yeaLr.
Now let us confider the cafe of a debt due froir a State.
None can, I apprehend, bt dire&ly claimed but in the following
inffances. ift. In cafe of a contraa with the Legiflature itfelf 2d. rn cafe of a contra& with the Exccutive, or any other
pcrfon, in confequenccof an exprefs auth6rity frbm the Legiflature. 3 d. In cafe of a contra& with thc Executive without
ay fpecal authority. In theMfl andfeond cafes, the contract
Is evidently made on the public faith alone. Every man muft
know that no.fuit qen lie againf a L egifiative body. Ifis,only
dependence

446

CAsxs ruled and adjudged in the

1793. dependence therefore can be, that the Legiflature on principies.
of public duty, will make a provifion for the execution of theirown contra26s, and if that fails, whatever reproach the Legiflature may incur, the cafe is certainly without remedy in any o£
the Courts of the State. It never was pretended, everg in the
safe of the crown in England, that if any contra& was made
with Parliament, or with the crown by virtue of an authority
from Parliament, that a Petition to the crown would in fuch
rafe lie. In the third cafe, a contra& with the Governor of a
State without any fpecial authority. This cafe is entirely different

~"~

from fich a contraC made with the crown in England. The
crown there has very high prerogatives, in many inflances is a
kind of truftee for the public intereft, in all cafes: reprefents the
fovcreignty of the Kingdom, and is the caly authority 'which can,file ,r befied in any manneron bekalf of tbe Kingdom in any Cour"

of ytflice. A Governor of a State is a mere Executive officer;.
his general authority very narrowly limited by the Conflitutioii
of the State , with no undefined or difputablc prerogatives ;
without power to effer'1 one hilling of the puhlic money, hut as
he is authi fed under the Confltitution, or by a particular law;
having no colour to repreftnt the fovereignty of the State, fo as
to bind it in any manner to its prejudice, unlefs fpecially authorifed thereto. Ard therefore all who contra&'with him do it
at their own peril, and are bound to. fee (or take the confequence of their own indifcretion) that he has ftri6l -authority
for any contraE he makes. Of courfe fuch contra&t when fo
authorifed will conic within the defcription Imentioncd of cafes
where public faith alone is the ground of relief, and the Le,iflative body the only on6 that can afrard a remedy, which
from the very nature of it muft be the dYec o. its diferetion,
and not of any compulfory procefs. If however any fuch cafes
were fimilar to thofe wbich would entitle a party io relief by
-petition to the ig in E.-gland, that Petition being only prerentable to him as lie is the fovereign of the KRingd.,r, fo.
fraas analogy is to take place, fuch Petition in a State could on1 be prefented to the fovereign poder, 'i'hLch furely the GoYernor s not. The only conlituted authority to which fuch an
application could iith any propriety be made, muft undoubtedly be the Legiflature, "whofe exprefs ronfent, upon the principle of analogy, would be necefihry to any further proceeding.
So that this brings us (though by T different route) to the fame
gtal ; 9The di/,ertion and good faith of the Legiative body.
There is rio other part of- the common law, befides that
which I have confidcred, which can by anyperfon be pretendcd
in any manner to applvto this cafe, but that which concerns
ovporations. .The applicability of this, the Attorney-General,
witi rcat candour, ha- extpref-ly waved. But as it may be

urgcdu

SurpimaME Cotx'r of the UniteJ &4tei.
urged on other occafions, and as I wifh to give the fulleft fa- 793tisfaCtion, I will fay a few words to that do6lrIne. Suppofe,
therefore, it fhould be objeted, that the reafoning I have now
ufud is not conclufive, becaufe, inafnuch as a State is made
fubje& to the judicial power of Cigrefs, its Iovereignty muff
tiot fland in theway of the proper exercife of that power,
and, therefore, in all fuch cafes (though in no other) a State
can only be confidered as a fubordinate corpdrntion merely. t
anfwer, ift. That this conftrudion can only be allowed, at
the utmoft, upon the fuppofition that the judicial authority of
the United Stater, as it refpeds States, cannot be ef&e4uated,
without proceeding againft them in that light : a pofition I.by
•no means admit. 2d. That according to the principlts I have
-fupported in this argument, admitting that States ought to be
Ito confidered for that purpofe, an a& of the Legiflature is ne,'
ceffary to give efFed to fuch a conftrudion, unlefs the old doctrine concerning corporations will naturally apply to this parti:.
tcular cafe. 3 d. That as it is evident the ad of Congreri has not
made any4fpecial provifion in this cafe, grounded on any :ch
conftrudion, fo it is to my. mind perfecly clear that we have
no authority, upon any fuppofed analogy btween the two
-cafes, to apply the. common dodrine concerning corporations,
to the important cafe now before the Court. I take it for grant.
ed, that when any part of an antient law is to be applied to a
new cafe the 'circumifances of the new cafe muft agree in alf
effential points with the circiimftance of the old cafes to which
that antient law was formerly appropriated, Now there are, in
my opinion, the moft effential differences between the old cafesot
corporations to which the law intimated has reference, and the
great and extraordinary cafe of States feparately poffefing, as to
every thing fimply relating to themfelves, the fulleft powers of
fovereignty, and yetin fome other defined particulars fubjed"
to a fuperior power compofed out of themfelves for the common welfare of the whole. The only law concerning corporations, to which I conceive the leaft reference is to be had, is
the common law of England on that fubje&. I need not repeat
the obfervations I made in refped to the operation bf that law
inthis country. The word" corporations," in its largeft fenfe,
has a more extenfive meaning than people generally are aware
of. Any body politic (fole or aggregate) whether its power be
reftrided or tranfcendant, is in this fenfe " a corporation."
'The .King, accordingly, in England is called a corporation. to
Co. 29. b. So alfo, by a very refpeftable.author (Sheppard, hi
his abridgement, I Vol 43'.) is the Parliament itfelf. In this
extenfive fenfe, not only each State fingly, but even the United
.ta.s- may without impropriety be termed" corporations."' I
hiwc, thezeforep in con4tradiinbion to this large and indefinlte
te 4

448
S793.
I

.

CsAES

ruler ad adjidtged iii thd

term, ufed the term ",'fubordinate corporations," meaning M
refer to fuch only (as alone capable of the flighteft application,
for the purpofe of the obje&ion) whofe creation and whole
powers.are limited by law.
The differencei between fuch corporations, and the feveral
States in the Union, as relative to the general Government, aie very obvious in the following particulars. ift. A
corporation is a mere creature of the King, or of Parliament;
very rarely of the latter ; moft ufually of the former only. It
Owes its exiftence, its name, and its laws, (except fuch laws as
are neceffarily'incident to all corporations merely as fuch) to the
authority which create it, A State does not owe its origin to
the Government of the United States, in the higheft or in any
of its branches, It was in exiftence before it. It derives its
authority from the fame pure and facred fource as itfelf- The
-voluntaryand deliberate choice of the people, 2d. A corporation

can do io a& but whai is fubje& to the revifion either of a
Court of Juftice, or of fome other authority within the Government. A State is altogether exempt from the jurifdiclotrt
of the Courts of the United States, or from any other exterior
authority, unleff in the fpecial infiances where the general Governm~nt has power derived from the Conifitution itfelf. Sd.
A corloration ip altogether dependant on that Government to
which it owes its exiftencg. Its charter may be forfeited by
abufe. Its' authority may be annihilated, without abufe, by an
ac of the Legiflthre-body. A State, though fubje& in certain fpecifid particulars to the authority of the Government of
the United States, is in every other refpe& totally independent
upon it. The people of the State created, the people of thd
State can only change, its Conifitution, Uptn this power there
is no other limitation but that inipofed by the Conflitution of
the United States; that it muf/be of the Republican form. I omit
minuter diftinaions. Thefe are fo palptable, thit I never can
admit that a fyftem of law calculated for one of thefe cafes is
to be appllied, as a matter of courfi, to the other, without admitting (as I conceive) that the diftin6l boundaries of law and
Legiflationr may be confounded, in a manner that would make
Courts arbitrary, -and in effe6a makers of a new law, inflead of
being (as certainly they alone ought to be) expofitors of an exffiJig bne. If itill it fhould be infifted, that though a State
eannot be confidered upon the fame footing as the municipal
corporations I have been 6onfidering, yet, as relative to the
powers of the General Government it muft be deemed in fome
.meafure dependent ; admitting that to be the cafe (which to
be Lure is, for far as the neceffary execution of the powers of the
General Government e-xtends ) yet in whatever character this
aray place a State, this can only afford a re.fon for a new law,
calculated

SVPT"Zs CoURmT of the United $jata.

449

taIculated to effeatuate the powex of the %anaral Govern- 1.793.
ment in this new cafe : But it aFords.no rea(on whatever for
the Court admitting a new adion to fit,,a cafe, o ,which no
old ones apply, when the application of law, no L e making o0
it, is the fole province of the Court,
I have now, I think, eftablithed the following partirulars.-.
x,#. That the Conftitution, fo far as it refpeas the 'judicial amithority, can only be carried into effe& by ads bf the Legiilaturd.
appointing Courts, -and preferibing their methods of proceed.
ing. 2d. That Congrrfj has provided no ziew.laew.,irk.regard tQ
this cafe, but exprefsty referred 43 to th old.. 3d That
there are no principles of the old law, to which we iuft have
recourfe, that in any minner authorife the- prefct fuit; either
by precedent or by analogy. The confequence of ,which,in my
opinion, clearly is, that the fuit in queftion cannot, be main.
tamned, nor, of courfe, the motion made upon it be complied with.
From the manner i which I have viewed -this'fubjed, fo
different from that in which it has been contemplated by the
Attorney General, it is evident, that.I have not had occafion
to notice many arguments offered by the. Attorney General,
which certainly were very proper, as to Jhis extended view of
the cafe, but -do not affed mine, No part of, the Law of Naapprehend,.but that part which
;i
tions can apply to t.ls cafe, a
is termed " The Conventional Law of Nations ;" nor can
this-any otherwife apply than ae furnilaing rules of interpretation, fince unqueftionably the people of the United Statev had
a right to form what kind of union, and upon what terms they
pleafe, without reference to any former examples. If upon a
fair conftrudfion of the Conftituti6n of the United States, the
power contended for really exiffts, it undoubtedly may be exercifed, though it be a power of the firO imprefllon. If it
does not exift, upon that authority, ten thoufand examples of
fimilar powers would not warrant its affumptign. So far as this
great queftion affe&s the Conftitution ittelf, if the preftnt afforded, confiftently with the particular grounds of my opinion,
a proper occafion for a deifion upon it, I would- not fhrink
from its difcuffion. But it is of extreme moment that no Judgq
fhould' rafhly commit himfelf upon important queftions,
which it is unnecefiTary for him to decide. -My opinion being,
that even if the Conflitution would admit of .the exercife of
fuch a power, a new law is neceffary for the purpofe, fince no
part of the exifting law applies, this alone is fufficient to juf.
tify my determination in the prefent cafe. So much, however,
has beeh faid on. the Conftitution, that it may not be improper
to intimate that my prefent opinion is ftrongly againfk any confirufion of it, which will admit, under any circumilances.
l compulfive fait againft a State for the recovery of 'money.
thinkc
LII
-

450
1793.
"'

CAsts ruled and adjudged in the

think every word in the Conflitution may have its full effle&
wi-houti nvolving this confequence, and that- nothing but exprefs words, or an infurmountable implication (neither of which
I confider, can be found in this cafe) would authorife the deduaion of fo high a power. This opinion I hold, however,
with all -the referve proper for one, which, according to my fentments in this cafe, may be deemed in tome meafure extra-judicial. With iegard to the policy of maintaining fuch fuits, that
is not 'for this Court to confider, unlefs the point in all other refpe&s was vcy doubtful. Policy might then be argued from
with a view to preponderate the judgment. Upon the queftion
before us, I have no doubt. I have therefore nothing to do
with the policy. But I'confefs, if I was at liberty to fpeak on
that fubje&, my opinion on the policy of the cafe would alfo
differ from that of the Attorney General. It is, however, a
delicate topic. I pray to God, that if the Attorney General'S
do&rine, as to the law, be eftablifhed by the judgment of this
Court, all the good he predias from it may take place, and
none of the evils with which, I have the concern to fay, it appcars to me to be pregnant.
BLAIR, Jifflice. In confidering this important cafe, I have
thought it beft to pafs over all the ftri6lures which have been
made on the various European confederations ; becaufe, as, on
the one hand, their likenefs to our own is not fufficiently cloti to
juftify any analogical application ; to, on the other, they areutterly deftitute of any binding authority here. The Conffitution of t13e United States is the only 'fountain from which I
ihall draw ; the only authority to which 'Ifhall appeal. Whatever be the true language of that, it is obligatory upon every
member of the Union ; for, no State could have become a member, but by an adoption of it by the people of that State. What
then do we find there. requiring the fubmiffion of individual
States to the judicial authority' of the United States P This is
exprefsly exten'ded, among other things, to controverfies between a State and citizens of another State. Is then the cafe
before us one of that defcription ? Uidoubtedly it is, 'unlefs
it may be a fufficient denial to fay, that it is a -controverfy betweerl a citizen of one State and another State. Can this
change of order be an effential change in the thing intended ?
And is this alone a fufficient ground from which to conclude,
that the jurifdifion of this Court reaches the cafe where a
State is Plaintiff, but not where it is Defendant? In this latter cafe, fhould any man be afked, -wlether it -was not a controverfy between a State and citizen of another State, muft not
anfwer be in the affirmative ? A difpute between A. and B.
.sfurely a difpute between B. and A. Both cafes, I have no
loubt; were intended ; amd probably the State 'was iirftnamed,

SXuRME Corm-r of the UntrdS~dtx.

in refpe& to the dignity of a State. But that.very dignity feems '1793to have been thought a fuflicient reafon for confining the fenfe
to the cafe where a State is plaintiff. It is, however,. a fuflicient anfwer to fay, that our Conflitution "mofe certainly contemplates,in another banch of. the cafes enumerated, the maintaining a jurifdi6tion againft a State, As Defendant ; this is unequivocally afferted when the judicial power of the United States
is extended to controverfies between two or more States ; for
there, a State muff, of neceffity, be a Defendant. It is extended alfo, to controverfies between a State and foreign States;
and if the argument taken from the order of defignation were
good, it would be meant here, that this Court might have coguizance of a fuit, where "aState is Plaintiff, and fome foreign
State a Defendant, but not where a foreign State brings a fuit
againift a State. This, however, not to mention that the inftances may rarely occur, when a State may have an opportunity of fuing in the American Courts a foreign State, feems to
lofe fight of the policy which, no doubt, fuggefled this provifion, viz., That no State in the Union ihould, by withholding
juftice, have it in its power to embroil the-whole confederacy in
difputes of anotlier nature. But if a foreign State, though la
named, may, neverthelcfs, be a Plaintiff againft an individual
State, how can it be faid, that a eontroverfy l4etween a State
and a citizen of another State means, from tht mere force of
the order of the words, only fuch cafes.where a State is Plaintiff? After defcribing, generally, the judicial, powers of the
United States, the Conftitution goes on to fpeak of it difiributively, and gives to the Supreme Court original jurifdi&ion,
among other inflances, in the cafe where a State flall be a party;
but is not a State a party as well in the condition of a Defen'dant as in that of a Plaintiff? Anc is the whole force of that
expreffion fatisfied by confining its meaning to the cafe of a
Plaintiff-State ? It feems to me, that if this Court fhould refufe to hold jurifdi&ion of a cafe where a State is, Defendant,
it would renounce part of the authority conferred, and, confequently,, part of the duty impofed on it. by the Conflitution ;,
becaufe it would be a refufal to take cognizance of a cafe where
a State is a party. Nor does the jurifdi&ion of this Court, in
relation to a State, feem to me to be queftionable, on the
ground that Congrefi has not provided any form of execution,
or pointed out any mode of making the judgment againfi a
State effe&ual; the argument ab in utili may'weigh much in
cafes depending upon the conftrukion of doubtful Legiflatiye
a&s, hut can havq no force, I think, againf the clear and pofi
tive direffions of Ian a& of Congrt/s and of the Conftitiition.
Let us go on as far as we can ; and if, at' the end of the bui.
fineis, notwithiaiidingthe. powers given us in the- 14th le&ion
L1
Of

Cisns ruled and i-djudged iA the

43t

1493. of the judicial law, we meet difficulties infurmountable to .uss

to-,%..j we muO leave it to ihofe *departments. bf Government wlith

'have higher powers; to which, howeveri there may be no ne*
ceffity to have recourfe : Is it altogether a vain expe&ation) that
a State may have other motives than fuch as arife from the aprprehcnfion of coercion, to carry into execution a judgment of
.the Supreme Court of the United States, though not conformable to their own ideas ofjuftice.? Befides," this argument takes
it for granted, that the judgment of the Court will bt againft

the State ; it poflibly may be in.
favor of the Stare ; and the
difficulty vanifhes. Should judgment be given againft tht
Plaintiff, could it be faid to be void, becaufe extra-judicial ?
If the Plaintiff, grounding himfelf upon that notion, thould
renew his fuit againft the State, in any mode in which The may
permit herfelf to be fued in her own Courts, would the Attorney Gcneral for the State be obliged to go again into the merits
of the -cafe, becaufe the matter, when here, was coram non judies ?
ylight he not rely upon the J u;gment given by this
Court in har of the new fuit? To me it feems. clear that he
might. And if a State may be brought before this Court, as a

Defendant, I fee no reafon fox confining the Plaintiff to proceed by way of -petition j indeed there would even feem to be
an impropriety in proceeding in that mode. When fovereigns

are fued in their own Courts, fucha method may have -been ef.
tablithed as the moft refpe6ful form of demand ; but we are
trot now in a State-Court ; and if fovereignty be an exemption
from fuit in any other than the fovereign's own Courts, it follows that when a State, by adopting the Conflitution, has
agreed to be amenable to the judicial power of the UnledStates,'
fi& has, in that refpe&, given-up her right of fovereignty.
With refpe- to-the fervice of the fummons to appear, the
manner in which it has been ferved feems to be as proper as any
which could be devifed'for the purpofe of giving notice of the
fuit, which is the end propofed by it, the Governor being the
Jiead of the Executive Department, 'and the Attorney General
the law-bfficer, who generally reprefents the State in legal proceedings : And this mode is the lefs liable to exception, when it
is confidered, that in the fuit brought in this Court by the State
of Georgia againift BrailsfAord* and others, it is conceived in the
name of the Governor in behalf of'the State. If the opinion
which I have delivered, refpe6ting the liability of a State to be
fued in this Court, thould be the opinion of the Court, it will
come in courfe to confider, what is the proper. ftep to be taken
for indpcing appearance, none having been yet entered in behalf
.of the Defendant. A judgment' by default, in the prefent
flage of the bufinefs, and -writ of enquiry of damages, would
.dant.

be
£'-

SuPREME CouiRT of the United States.
be too precipitate in any cafe, and too incompatible with the 1793.
dignity of a State in this. Farther 6pportunity of appearing
to defend the fuit ought to be given. The conditional order
moved for the laft term, the confideration of which was deferred to this, feems to me to be a very proper mode; it will
warn the State of the meditated confequence of a refufal to appear, and give an opportunity for more deliberate "&onfideration. The order, I think, fhould be thus: ' Ordered, that
C unlefs the State -of Georgiafhould, after due notice of this
order, by a fervice thereof upon the Governor and Attorney
General of the faid Stat , caufe an appearance to be entered
in behalf of the State, on the sth day of the next Term, or
then fhew caufe to the contrary, judgment bthen entered up
againft the State, and a writ of enquiry of damages be
£ awarded,'
WILSON, 7lice. This is a cafe of uncommon nignitude.
bne of the parties to it is a STATE ; certainly refpefable, claimhmg to be fovereign. The queftion te be determined is, whether this State, fo refpe&able, and whofe claim foars fo high,
is amenable to the jurifdi&ion of the Supreme Court of thd
United States ? This queftion, important in itfelf, will depend
on others, more important ftill
; and, may, perhaps, bd ultimately refolved into one, no lefs radical than this-" do the

people of the UnitedStates form a NATION

?"

A caufe fo confpicuous and intereffing, fhould be carefully
and accurately viewed from every poffible point'of fight. I fhall
examine it; If.By the principles of general jurifprudence.
2d. By the laws and praffice of particularStates and Kingdoms.
From- the law of nations little or no illuftration of this ubje&t
cart be expecled. By that law the feveral States and Governments fpread over, our globe, are confidered as forming afociety,
not Z NATION. It has only been by a very few comprehenfive
minds, fuch as thofe of -Elizabeth and the Fourth Henry, tlat
this laft great idea has been even contemplated. 3 dly. and
chiefly, IMhall examine the important queftion before us, by
the Conftituion of the United Statei, and the legitimate refult nf
that valable inftrument.
I. I am, firft, to examine this queftion by the principles of
general jurifprudence. What I fhall fay upon tfiis head, I introduce by the obfervation of an original and profound writer,
who, in the philofcphy of mind, and all the fcienees attendant
on this prime one, has formed an tara not lefs remarkable, and
far more illuftrious, than that formed by the juffly celebrated
Bacon, in another fcience, not profecuted with Jefs ability, but
lefs dignified as to its obje&ft ; I meari the philofophy of matter.
Dr. Reid, in his excellent enquiry into the human mind, on
the principles of commonfetnfe, fpcaking of the fceptical and illiberal

454

CAsEs ruled 41,d adjudged in the

1793. liberal philofophy, which under bold, but falfe, pretentions to
tv'%.libtrality, prevailed in many parts of Europe before
he wrote,
makes the following judicious remaik : "The language of philo-fophers, with regard to the original faculties of the mind, is
fo adapted to the prevailitig fyftem, that it cannot fit any other;
like a coat that fits the man for whom it was made, and fhews
him to advantage, which yet will, fit very aukward upon one of
a different; make, although as handfome and well proportioned.
It is hardly poffible to make any innovation in our phil0fophy
concerning the mind and its operations, .without ufing new
words and phrafes, or giving a Idifferent meaning to thof that
are received." With equal propriety may tOis folid remark be
appiied to the great fubje&, on the principles of which the decifion of this Court is to be fowided. The perverted ufe of
gernis andfpecier in IRgic, and of impffionr and ideas in metaph.fu-s, have never done mifchief fo extenfive or foprac7icaly pernicious, as has been done by States andfivereigns, in politics and
jurfprudence ; in the politics and jurifprudwce -even of thofe,
'who wiflied and meant to be free. 'Jr. the place. of thofec.x.t
preffions I intend not to fubifitute pew ones' 1but the expref,
15ons themfelves I fhall certainly ufe for purpofes', diffierent from
thofe, for which hitherto they have been freqtently ufed ; and
one pf them I hall apply to an objeft fili 'more different from
that, 'to which it has hitherto been, more, frequently, ,I may
fay almoft univerfally, applied. In thcfe,purpofes, and in this
application, I fball he ju~iified by exampe themoft fplenxdid, and
1y authority the moft bindding i the exampple of the'moft refined
as well as the nioft freenation -known.to antiquity ; and the authority of oneoof, the beft Conf'titutions kndwn to modern times.
With regard to.one of the terms-State-this authority is declared: W.ith regard to the other-fovereign--tbeauthority is
imled only: But it is ,equ~ily firong : For. in an inftrument.
Well dra wn, ai in a pbem well cmpofed, u,.epce is fometimes
molt expreffive
To the Confttution of£the United,tates the term SOVEXErGN,
1s.totally unknown. There is but one place where it could have
been ufed with 'propriety. 'But, even 'in that place it would
4ot,perhaps, have comported with the delicacy of -thofe, who

ardained ard e/abli/$ed that Conftitution.. They might have an-.
noUnced themfelves"* SOVEREIGN". people.'of the United Slaes:
But ferehely confcious-of the faa, they avoided the oflentatious
dclaration.;

Having thus aN-owed my difapprobation "of the purpofes, for
whicli the terms, State and Jovereign, axe frequently ufed, and
'of re objec,, to ',wikh the. applicat; d of the laft of them is
a.2moft unierfally'Made i it i" noicpropez that I fhould difclofe
.the' mearfing, which I ,flgiri' ta, both, ,and ';4e -app.lication,
vihich

SupR-_u CouRr

of the United States.

which I make of the latter. In doing this, I fhall have oo- 1793,.
cation incidently to evince, how true it is, that States and Go- %.V%)
vernments were made for man 5 and, at the fame times how
true it is, that his creatures andfervantshave firft deceived, next
vilfled, and, at la opprted their maler and maker.
MAN,- fearfully and wonderfully made, is the workmanfbip
of his all perfect CREATOR: A State; ufeful and valuable as
the contrivance is, is the inferior contr-' nce Of man; and
from his native dignity derives all its acquired importance.
When I fpeak of a State as an inferior contrivance, I mean
that it is a contrivance inferior only to that, which is divine :
Of all human contrivances, it is certainly moft tranrcendantly
excellent. It is concerning this contivance that Cicero fays fo
fublimely, " Nothing, which is exhibited upon our globe, is
more acceptable to that diN inity, which gcverps the whole unimen, which,
verfe, than thofe communities and affemblages of
"'
lawfully affociated, are denominated STATES* .
Let a State be con fidered as fubordinate to the PEOPLE But
let every thing elfe be fubordinite to the State. The latter
part of this pofition is equally neceffary with the former. For
in the pra&ice, and even at length, in the fcience of politics
there has very frequently been a ftrong current againft the
natural order of things, and an inconfiderate or an interefted
difpofition to facrifice the end to the means. As the State has
claimed precedence of the people ; fo, in He fame' inverted
courfe of things. thq' Government has often claimed precedence
of the State; and to this perverfion in thefecond degree, many
of the volumes of confufion concerning fovereignty owe their
exiftence. The min/iferx, dignified very properly by the appellation of the mdgifrates, have wiflhed, and have 'fucceeded
in their wiffi, to be confidered as the fivereigns of the State.
Thisfecond degree of perverfion is confined to the old world,
and begins to diminifh ,even there : but the fiiyf degree, is
ftill too prevalent, even in the feveral States, of which our
union is compofed. By a State I mean, a complete body of
free perfons united together for their common benefit, to enjoy
peaceably what is their own, and to do juftice to others.
It is an artifcial perfon. It has its affairs anai its interefts :'
It has its rules : I; has-its rights : Arid it has its obligations.
It
It may acquire property diftina from that of its members:
not
flock,.
public
the
may incur debts to be difcharged out of
out of the private fortunes of individuals. It may be bofrnd
thofe
by contra6s ; and for damages arifing from the breach of
this
concerning
however,
contra&s. In all our contemplations,
feigne4
S'om. Sul'. C. 3.

456

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

1793. feigned and artificial perfon, we fhould never forget, that, io
V
truth and nature, thofe, who 'think and fpeak, and a&, are
men.
Is the foregoing defcription of'a State a true defcription .fIt
will not be queftioned but it is.. Is there any part of this defcription, which intimates, in the remoteit manner, that a State,
any more than the men who compofe it, ought not to do juffire
and fulfil engagements ? It will not be pretended that there
is. If juftice Is not done ; if engagements are not fulfilled ;
is it upon general principles of right, lefs proper, in the caxr
of a great number, than in the cafe ofanindividual, to fecure, by.
compulfion, that, which will not be voluntarily'performed ? Left
proper it furely cannotbe. The only reafon, I believe, why a fre,
man is bound byhuman laws, is, thathe bindr himfef, Upon the
fame principles, upon which he becomes bound by the lavs.he be'comes amenable to the Courts of Jujice, which are formed and
authorifed by thofe laws. If one free man, an original'fovereign,
may'do all this ;why may not an aggregate of free men, a colle&ion of original fovereigns, do this likewife ? If the dignity
of eachflngly is undiminifhed ; the dignity of all jointly muf' be
unimpaired. A State, like a merchant, makes a contra& A
diflioneft State,, like a difhoneft merchant, wilfully refufes to
difcharge it : The latter is amenable to a Court of Juffice :Upon general principles 6f right, fhall the former when fummoned to anfwer the fair demands of its creditor, be permitted,
proteus-like, to affutne a new appearance, and to infult him ard
juftice, by declaring I am a sovRtEir State ? Surely not.
4lefore a claim, fo contrary, in its' firft appearance, to he gene-.
ral principles of right and equality, be fuftained by a juft and
impartial tribunal, ihe perfon, n4tural or artificial, entitled to
make fuch claim,, fhould certainly be well known and authenticated. Who, or what, is a fovereignty ? Whht is his or its fovereignty ? On this fubje&, the errors and the mazes are endlefs and inexplicable. To enumerate all, therefore, will not
be expe&ed : To take, notice of fome will be neceffary to the
frill
illuftration of the prefent important caufe. In one fenfe,
the termfovereign has for its correlative, fubje_,
In this fenfe,
the term can receive no application ; for it has no objeet in 'the
Conftitution of the United-States. 'Under that Conftitution
there are titizeni, but nzo fubjear. " Citizen of the United
States ". " Citizens of another State." " Citizens of diffe-"
rent States." . - A State' or citizen thereoff". The term,
fubie&, occurs, indeed, once in the inftrunient ; .but' to markthe contraft ftrongly, the epithet ic foreign"I is prefi.xed. In
this fenfe, I prefume the State of Georgia has no claim upon
her
lt-. I. F. .

Art. 3;T 3. . Art. 3.
3 s.

StiPREuxE CoxRT

Qf the United Staler.,

41

Iver own citizens: In this fenfe, I am certain, fihe can have 1793,
no claim upon the citizens of another State.
In another fenfe; according to fome writers*, every Stat4.
which governs itfelf withoat any dependence on another powm.
'er, is a foveteign State.. Whether, with regard 'to her own
citizens, this is the cafe of the State of Georgia; whether thofe
citizens have done, as tlhe individuals of England are faid, by
their late initrufors, to have done, furrendered the Supreme
Power to the State or Government, and referved nothing td
themfelves ; or whether, like the people of .other Sfates, and
of the United States, the citizens of Georgia have referved the
Supreme Power in their own hands; und on that Supreme
Power have made the State dependent, initead of. being fbvereign ; thefe 're quefions, to which, as a Judge in this caufe
I can neither know nor fugget. the proper anfwers ; though, as
a citizen of the Union, I know, and '-am interefted to know,
that the moit fatisfa&ory anfwers can be given. As a citizens
I know the Government of that State to be republican ; and
my £hort definition of fuch a Government isj--one conftru&ed
on this principle, that the Supreme Power refides in the-body
of the people. As a Judge of this Coutrt, I know, and cati
decide upon the knowledge, that the citizens of Georgia, when
they a&ed upon the large feale of the Union, as a part of- the
People of the United States," did not furrender the Supreme
or fovereign Po~ver to that State; but, -as to the purpofer of the
Union, retained it to themfelves. A to the purqfes of the Union,
iherefore, Georgia is NOT a foiereign State. If the Judicial
decifion 'of this cafe forms one of thofe purpofes ; the allegation,
that Georgia is a fovereign State, is unfupported by the fa5.
Whether the judicial decifion of this caufe is, or is not, one of
thofe purpofes, is a'queftion which will be examined particularly in a fubfequent part of my argument.
There is a third fenfe, ini which the term overeign is frea
quently ufed, and which it is very material to trace and explains
as it furnifhies a barls for what I prefume to be one of the prin;
cipal objetions againft the jurifdi&ion of this Couit over the
State of Georgia. In this fenfe, fovireignty is derived from ieudal fource; and like many other parts of that fyftem fo degrading to man, ftill retains its influence over our fentiments
and c6ndu&, ihotigh the caufe, by which that influence was
produced, never extended to the American States. The accu.
rate and well informed Prefident Henault) in his excellent chronological ab¢[dgment of the Hiftory of France, tells us, that,
about the end of the fecond race of Kings, a new kind of pof(effion was acquired, under the name of-' Fief. Tle Governor&
of Cities and Provinces ufurped equally the property of land,
'and
. mm
Putt. B. is cb r-o~s

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

458
'

1793. and the adminyirationofjuflice ; and eftablifhed them felves as
proprietary Seigniors over thofe places, in which they had been
only civil magiftrates or military officers. By this means, there
was introduced into the State a new kind of authority, to
which was afligned the appellation of fovereignty * . In procefs
of time the feudal fyftem was extended over France, and almot all the other nations of Europe: And every Kingdom becaine, in fa&, a largefief. Into -Englandthis fyftem was introduced by the conqueror: and to this tara we may, probably,
refer the Engli maxim, that the King or fovereign is the
fountain of Jultice. But, in the cafe of the King, the fovevereignty had a double operation. While it vefted him with
jurifdiaion over others, it excluded all others from jurifdi&ion
over him. With regard to him, there was no fuperior power;
and, confequently, on feudal principles, no right ofjurifdiion.
" t The law, fays Sir William Blacgfone, afcribes
to the King
the attribute of fovereignty : he is fovereign and independent
within his own dominions; and owes no kind of objedion to
any other potentate upon earth. Hence it is, that nofidt or ac.
tion can b brought againft the King, even in civil matters;
becaufe no Co'urt can have jurifdition over him. for all jurifdiLion implies fuperiority of power." This laft pofition is only
a branch of a much more extenfive principle, on which a plan
of fyflematic defpotifm has been lately formed in England, and
prcfecuted with unwearied affiduity and care. Of this plan the
author of the Commentaries was, if notthe introducer, at leaft
the great fupporter. He has been followed in it by writers later
and lefs known ; and his do&iines have, both on the other and
this fide of the Atlantic, been implicitly andgenerally received
by-thofe, who neither examined their principles nor their confequences, The principle is, that all human law muft be prefcribed by afitperior. This principle I meai not now to examine.
Suffice it, at prefent to fay, that another principle, very different in its nature and operations, forms, in my judgment, the
bafis of found and genuine jurifprudence ; laws derived from
the pure fource of equality and jultice muft be founded on the
-CONSENT of thofe, whofe obedience they require. Thefovereign,
when traced, to his fource, muft be found in the man.
I have now fixed, in the fcale of things, the grade of a State,
and have defcribed it compoiure : I have confidered the nature
of foveieignty; and pointed its application to the proper obje&.
I have examined the queftion before us, by the principles of
•general jurifprudence. In thofe principles I find nothing, which
tends to evince an exemption of the State of Georgia, from the
jurifdi&ion of the Court. I fint every thing to have a contra.
ylyendency.
.0 t

"I,-

f

'if.

I -,VktI'COINh 2 .. '2-2.

I

SUPREME CUrT of the United 8ates.

II. I am, in the fecond place, to examine this .queftion by 1793the laws and pratice of different States and Kingdoms. In an- L.,--,
cient Greece, as we learn from Ifocratzr, whole nations defended their rights before crouded tribunals. Such occafions as
thefe excited, we are told, all the powers of perfuafion i and
the vehemence and enthufiafm of the fentiment was gradually
infufed into the Grecianlanguage, equally fufceptible of ftrength
and harmony. In thofe days, law, liberty, and refining fcience,
made their benign progrefs in firi4a and graceful union : The
rude and degrading league between the bar and feudal' barbarifin
was not yet formed.
When the laws and pra&ice of particular States have any application to the queftion before us ; that application will furnifli
what is called an argument a fortiori ; becaufe all the inftances
produced will be inflances of fubjeRt inifituting and fupporting
fuits againft thofe, who were- deemed their own fovereigns.
Thefe inftances are ftronger than the prefent one ; becaufe between the prefent plaintiff and defendant no fuch unequal relation is alledged to exift.
Columbus atchieved the difcovery of that country, which, perhaps, ought to bear his name. A contract nde by Columbius
furnifhed the firft precedent for fupporting, in his difcovered
country, the caufe of injured merit againft the claims and pretentions of haughty and ungrateful power. His fon Don Diega
wafted two years in inceffant, but fruitlefs, folicitation at the
Court of Spain, for the rights which defcended to him in confequence of his father's original capitulation. He endeavoured,
at length, to obtain, by a legal fentence, what he could not
procure from the favour of an" interefted Monarcb. He commenced a fuit again ft Ferdinandbefore the Council, which managed Indihn affairs ; and that Court, with integrity which refle&s honour on their proceedings, decided againfl: the King, and
ftfflained Don Diegos claim.*

Other States have inflituted officers to judge the proceedings
of their Kings : Of this kind were the Epkori of Sparta. of
this kind afo was the mayor of the Palace, and afterwards the
conftable of Francer.

But of all the laws and inflitutions relating to the prefent
queftion, none is fo firiking as that defcribed by the famous Hottoman, in his book entitled Francogallia. When the Spaniards

of Arragon ele& a King, they reprefent a kind of play, and introduce a perfonage, whom they dignify by the name of LAW,
ks feiza, of .-rragon. This perfonage they declare, by a

public decree, to be greater and more powerful than their Ring;
and then addrefs himi in the following remarkable expreffions.
49 We, who are of as great worth as you, and can do more
Mmm.z
thai
.R,.J.23t.' f Sid. 13x-

460

CASES tu ed and adjudged in the

t/93. than you can do, ele& you to he our King, upon the condiLion&

,

itiu Iated : But betweep you and us there is one of-greater authority than yoli."*
In Enghind, according to Sir W'illiam Black/Tone, no fuit can
be brought agairift the King, even in civil matters. So, -in that
Kinzgdom, is the law, at thix time, received

But it was not A-

ways fo Under the Saxon Government, a very different doctrine was held to be orthodox. Under that Government, as
we are informed by the Mirror of Juftice, a book faid, by Sir
dward Coke, to have been written, in part, at leaff, before the
conqueft ; under that Government it was ordairred, that the
'Zing.r Qourt fhould be open to all Plaintiffs, by which, without

delay, they fhould have remedial writa, as well againft the King
or againft the Queen, as againft any other of the people.- The law

continued to be the fame for fonie centuries after the conqueft.
Until the time of Ld,ard I the King might have been fued as
;t common perfon. The form of the procefs was even imperative. " PFzacipe. Henrio Reg .lngliz" &c.
cc Command
Henry King of England" &c4.

Bracwon, who wrote in

the

time of Henry IT ufes thefe very remarkable expreflions concerning the King 1 injtbitia

recipienda, minimo de regno fuo coin-

raretur"-1"in receiving juif.ice, he fhould be placed on a level

with the meaneft perlon in the Kfingdom §." 'rue it is, that
now -in England the King muft be fued in his Courts by Petiti , but even now., the difference is only in thefirrn, not ir
the thing. The judgments or decrees of thofe Courts will fubitantially be the fame upon a precatory as upon a nmandatory pro-.
cefq. In the Courts of Juftice, fays. the very able author of
the confiderations on the laws of forfeiture, the King enjoys
.many privileges ; yet not to deter the fubjeC from contending
with him freelyll. The Judge of the High Court of Admiralty in England made, in a very late caufe, the following manly
,nd independent declaration. " In any cafe, where the Crown
is a party it is to be obferved, that the Crown can no more
withhold evidence of documents in its pofleffion, than a private
perfon. If the Court thinks proper to order the produ&ion of
-iny public inftrument ; that order mufl be o3eyed. It -%ant&no
fjnfgnia of an authority derived from the Crownq."
- Judges ought to know, that the pooreft peafant is a man
as well as the 1 ing hirafelf : all men ought to. obtain juitice
fince in the efihnation of juftice, all men are equal; -whether
the Prince comphiiu of a peafant, or a peafant complain of the
Prince."* Thefe are the words of a King, of the late iFre4erie of PrFliFa. In his Courts of Jutice, that great man ftood
upo
Hoi. 71. Booi 31.
t 4 C. A. M 487.
I Coon.

104.
i1 Q.. F" 14.
4

Brac.
C
Col.

107.

Gom. xo 4 .
68.
8ur

*

ar,

3

SUPREME C6URT of the United fates.

his native greatnefs ; and difdained to mount upon the artificial flilts of fovereignty.
Thus much concerning the laws and praffice of other States
and Kingdoms. We fee nothing againft, but much in favour of,
the jurifdi&ion of this Court over the State of Georgia, a party
to this caufe.
III. I am, thirdly, and chiefly, to examine the important
queftion now before us, by the Conftitution of the United
Statts, and the legitimate refult of that valuable infirument.
Under this view, the queftion is naturally fubdivided into two
others. i. Could the Conflitution of the United Stater veft a
jurifdi&ion over the State of GeorgiaP 2. Has that Conftitution veiled fuchjurifdi&ion in this Court ? I have already remarked, that in the praaice, and even in thefcience of politics,
there has been frequently a firong current againif the natural
order of thing3 3 and an inconfiderate or an interfled difpofition
to faerifice the end to the means. Thii remark deerves a xmore
particular illuftration. Even in almoff every nation, which has
been denominatedfi-ee, thefate has affumed a fupercilious pre.
eminence above the people, who have formed it : Hence the
haughty notions offlate intdependenice,J.fatefoz,ercig.ty and .ate filpremacy. In defpotic Governments, the Govertmcnt has ufurped, in a fimilar manner, both upon the .flate and the peep/e :
Hence all arbitrary dofrine6 and pretenfions concerning the
Supreme, abfolute, and incontrolable, power of Govetnmneit. In
each, man is degraded from theprine rank, which he ought to
hold in human affairs . In the latter, thefate as well as the nanis degraded. Of both degradations, firiking inftances occur in
hiftory, in politics, and in common life. Qne of them is drawn
from an anecdote, which is recoided concerning Louis X. .
who has been Riled the grand Monarch of France. This
Prine, who diffufed around him fo much dazzling fpleudour,
and fo little vivifying lieat, was vitiated by that inverted man-,
ncr of teaching and of thinking, which formsKings to he tyrants,
without knowing or even fWfpefing that they' are fo. - The oppreffion, under which he held his fubjeCas during the whole
courfe of his long reign, proceeded chiefly from the principles
and habits of his erroneous education. By thefe, he had been
accuftomed to confider his Kingdom as his patrinrony, and his
power over his fubjets as his rightful'and undelegated inheri.
tance. Thefe fentiments were fo deIeply and ifrongly imprinted onhis mind, that when one of his Minifters reprefented to
?!in the miferable condition, to which thofe fubjeas were re.
duced, and, in the courfe of his reprefentation, frequently ufed the word L'Etat, theflate, the Eing, though lie felt the truth
and approved the fubfance of all tat was faid, yet was flockqd at the freqtient Tepetition of the exprcTion L'Ftat; and
complaine4

46
1793.

ulj

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

complained of it it as an indecency offered to his perfon hnd
chara&er. And, indeed, that .Kingsflould imagine themfelves
the final caufes, for which men were made, and focieties were
formed, and'Governments were infituted, will ceafe to be a matter of wonder or furprife, when we find that lawyers, and ftatefmen, and philofophers, have taught or favoured.priricipleswhich
neceffarily lead to the fame conclufion. Another intftance,
equally trong, but Itill more aftonifling, is drawn from the
.rit Government, as defcribed by Sir William Blacklone and
his followers. As defcribed by him and them, the Briti/h is a
defpotic Government. It is a Government without a-people.
In that Government, as fo defcribed, thefovereignty is poffeffed
hv the Parliament : In the Parliament, therefore, the fupreme
a .d abfolute authority is veiled :* In the Parliament refides
that incontrolable and defpotic povler, which, in all Governments, ruaft refide fomewhere. The conftituent parts of the
Parliament are the Kings Majefty, the Lord's Spiritual, the
Lord's Temporal, and the Commons. The King and thefe three
Eftates together form the great corporation or body politic of
the Kingdsm. All there fentiments are found ; the laft expreflions are found verlatimt in the commentaries upon the laws of
England.1 The Parliamentform the great body politic of Engiand !

IWVhat, then, or where, are the

PEOPLE

? Nothing !

No where! They are not, fo much as even the c bafelefs fabric
of a vifion !" From legal contemplation they totally difappear !
Am I not warranted in faying, that, if this is ajuft defcription;
a Government, fo and juftly fI defcribed, is a defpotic Government? Whether this defcription is or is not a juft one, is
a queftion of very different import.
In the United States, and in the feveral States, which compofe the Union, we go not fo far : but fill we go one flep firtier than we ought to go in this unnat.ral and inverted order of
things. Theflaies. rather than the PEOPLE, for whofe fakes the
States exift, are frequently the obje&s which attrat and arreft
our principal attention. This,' I believe, has produced much of
the ionfufion and perplexity, which' have appeared infeveral
proceeding,. and feverat publications on ftate-politics, and ork
the pblitics, too, of the United States. Sentiments and expreflions of this inaccurate kind prevail in our common, even in our
convivial, language. Is a tiaft afked ? " The United States, "
inftead of the ccPeople of the United States," is the toaft gi-

ven. This is not p.litically corre&. The toafi is meant to pre*'nttoview tefirfl great objea in the Lrni: It piefents only
It ptefents only the arli/'ial.perfon, inflead of the
de
e fond
arturalperfois, who Tpoke it into cxilTenee. A State I chcerfull.f

SUPREME COUPLT of the United State.
fully admit, is the nobleft work -of AMan-: But, 31anz imfieb' i73.
free anl honeft, is, I fpeak gc to this world, the nobkft work %
of GOD.

Concerning the prerogative of Kings, and concerning the
fovereignty of States, much has been faid and written ; but littie has been faid and written concerning a fubjea much more
dignified and important, the majelty of the pcople. The mode
of expreffion, which I would fubftitute in the'place of that ge7nerally ufed, is notlonlypitica!y, but alfo (for between true liberty and true tafte there is a clofealliance) clalically"iore corre&.
On the mention of efthet, a thoufand refined and endearing
aflciations rufh at once into the memory of the fichoar, the
philoropher, and the patriit. When Homer, one of the molt cotre&, as well as the oldeft of human authorities, enumerates the
other nations of Greece, whofe forces a6ted at the fiege of Troy,
he arranges them under the names of their different Kings or
Pkinces , But when he comes to the Abtheians, he difltinguiflies
them by the peculiar appellation of the PEOPLE4 of A4henr.
The well known addrefs ufed by Demoflhenes, when he har.
rangued and animated his affembled countrymen, was cc 0 Men
of Athens." With the ftri&eft propriety, therefore, claicailarnd
political,our national fcene opens with the moft magnificent ob-.
jet, which the nation could prefent. " The PEOPLE of theUnited State" are the firft perfonages introduced. Who 'were
thofe people ? They were the citizens of thirteen States, each
of which had a feparate Conflitution and Government, and
all of which were conne&ed together by articles of confederation. To the purpofes of public ftrength and felicity, that confederacy was totally inadequate. A requifition on the feveral
States terminated its Legi/Lative authority : Executive or 7udCial authority it had none. In order, therefore, to form a more
perfe& union, to eflabiJ/hjuice, to enfure domeftic tranquillity,
to provid6 for common defence, and to fecure the bleffings of
liberty, thofe peole, among whom were th people of Georgia,
ordained and eftabliflied the prcfent Conftitution. By that Conftitution Legifative power is vefted, Executive power is veiled,
Yudicial power is vefted.
'Ihe queftion now'opens fairly to our view, could the people
of thofe State§, among whom were thofe of Georgia, bind thofe
States, and Georgia among the others, by the Legiflative, Executive, and Judicial power fo veted ? If the principles, on
rhich I have founded myfeif, are juft and true; this queflion
mut unavoidably receive an affirmative anfwer. If thofe States
were the rwoof thofe propie; thofe people, and,, that I may
apply the cafe clofely, the 'people of Georgias in patricular,
.

I.. L

v-. 54. IJ1A/0o Pol. .2.
which democracy in compounded.
2.

could

one 0f the 'Words, d

464

CA§E§ ruled and adjudged inthd

1793. could alter, as they pleafed, their former work: To any giierl.
~ degree, they could dimino/b as well as enlarge it. Any or all of
the former State-powers, they could extinguAih or transfer,
The iqferelce) which rieceffarily refults, is, that the Conftitu,
clofely
tion ordained and eftabliflied by thoft people ; and, iRill
to apply the cafe, in particular by the people of Georgia, could
veft jurifdicfion or judicial power over thofe States-and over the
State of Georgia in particular.
The next queftion under this head, is,-Has the Conflitutioti
done fo ? Did thofe people mean to exercife this, their undoubted power? Thefe quefions may be refolved, either by
fair and conclufive dedu&ions, or by direS and explicit declaw;
rations. In order, ultimately, to difcover, whether the people
of the UnitedStates intended to bind thofe States by the Yudicial power vefted by the national Conftitution, a previous enquiry will naturally be : Did thofe people intend to bind thofe
flates by the Legijlative power vefted by that Conflitution ? The
articles of confederation, it is well known, did not operate up.
on i ndividual citizens ; but operated only uponflates, This defe& was remedied by the national Conftitution, which, as all
al.ow, has an operation on individual citizens. But if an opinion, which fone feem to entertain, be juf ; the defea remedied, on one fide, was balanced by a defe t introduced on the
other; For they feem to think, that the prefent Conflitution
operates only on individu l citizens, and not on States. This
opinion, however, appears to be altogether unfounded. When
certain laws of the States ire declared to be "fubjeEL to the revifion and controul of the Congrefs ;'* it cannot, furely, be contended that the Legijlative power of the national Government
was meant to have no operation on the feveral States. Thefd?,
uncontrovertibly eftablifhied in one inftance, proves the principle
in allother infrances, to which the facts will be found to apply.
We may then infer, that the people of the UnitedStates intended to bind the feveral Sta:es, by .the Legiflative power of the national Government.
In order to make the difcovery, at'which we ultimately aims
a fecond previous enquiry will naturally be-Did the people of
the United States intend to bind the feveral States by the Execu6vzi power of the national Government ? The affirmative anfwer to the former queftion directs, unavoidably, an affirmative
anfwer to this. Ever fince the time of Bra~ton, his maxim, I
believe, has been deemed a good one-"c Supervacuum feft leges
qui leger tueretur."t " It would be fuperflu-.
condere, ni ej'et
ous to make laws, unlefs thofe laws, when made, were to
be enforced." When the laws are plain, and the application of
them is uncontroverted, they are enforced immediately by the
.Executivt
fBra. 107 A t. . <sS °' .

SUPRI AE COURT Of the United. Statrs.

itve.utive authority of Government. When the .application of 1793them is doubtful or intricate, the interpofition of thejudicial authority becomes neceflhry. The fame principle, therefore,
which dire&cd us from thefrfl to thefecond ftep, will dire& us
from thefecond to the third and iI/7 fiep of our dedufflon. Fair
and conclufive dedbt~on, then, evinces that the people of the
United States did veft this Court with jurifdi&ion over the State
of Georigia. The fame truth may be deduced from the declared
cjects, and the general texture of the Conftitution of the Uniled States. One of its declared objtas is, to fatfm an union
more perfe6t, than, before that time, had been formed. Before that time, the Union poffeffed Legiflative, but unit!forced
Legiflative power over the Siates. Nothing coLId be more nau
tural than to intend that this Legiflative power fihould be enforced by powers Executive and. Yudicial. Another declared
obje& is, 99to eftablifh juftice." This points, in a particular
manner, to the Judicial authority. And when we view this
objc& in conjunfiion with the declaration, cc that no State
fhall pafg a.- law impairing the obligation of contra~ts ;" we
iall probably think, that this obje&t Points, in a particular man."
ner, to the jurifdiffion 'of the Coutt over the feveral States.
What good purpofe could this Conftitutional provifion fecure,
if a State might pafs a law impairing the obligation of its own
contra~s ; and be amenable, for fuch a violation of right, to
rto tPairouling jidiciary power ? we have feen, that on the
principles of general jurifprudence, a State, for the breach of
a contra&, may be liable for damages, A.third declared obje&
.is-cc to enfure domeftic tranquillity." -This tranquillity is moft
likely to be difturbed by controverfies between States. Thefe
confequences will be moft peaceably and effe~tually decided bythe eftablifihment and by the exercife'of a fuperintending judicial
authority. By fuch exercife and eftabliflhment, the law of nations ; the rule between contending States ; will be. enforced.
among the feveral States, in the fame manner as municipallaw.
Whoever confiders, in a combined and comprehetifive view,
the gener-al texture of the- Conffitution, will be fatisfied, that
the people of the United Stater intended to form thenfetves into a nation for national purpofes. They inftlitutil, forfucb purpofes, a national Government, complete in ,all its parts, with
powers Legiflative, Executive and Judiciary , and, in all thofe
powers, extending over the whole nation. Is it congruous, thari
with regard touch purpofes, aby man ot body of men, any
perfon natural or artificial; hould be permitted to claim fuccefsfully an entire exemption from the jilrifdiffion of the national Government ? Would not fuch claims, crowned with
fuccefs, be repugnant to our very exiaence as a nation ? When
N nul

fo

CA-Es ruled and adjudged in the
1793. fo many trains of dedu&ion, coming from different quarters,
o
converge and unite, at laft, in the fame point; we may fafely
conclude,, as the legitimate refult of this Conftitution, that the
State of Georgia is amenable to the jurifdi&ion of this Court.
But, in my opinion, this do&rine refts not upon the legitimate refult of fair and conclufive dedu&ion from the Conftituion: It is confirmed, beybnd all doubt, by the direc7 and explicit declaration of the Conflitution itfelf. " The judicial
power of the United States fliall extend to controverfies between
tvo States."* Two States are fuppofed to have a controverfy
between them : This controverfy is 1uppofed to be brought before thofe veited with the judicial power of the United States :
Can the moff confummate degree of profeffional ingenuity devife a rhode by which this " controverfy between tw;o States"
can be brought before a Court of law; and yet neither of thofe
States be a Defendant ? " The judicial power-of the United
States (hall extend to controverfies, between a j7ate and citizens
of another State." Could the ftri&eft legal language i could
even that language, which is peculiarly appropriated to an art,
deemed, by a great mafter, to be one of the molt honorable,
laudable, and profitable things in our law ; could'this ftri6t and
appropriated language, defcribe, with more precife 4ccuracy,
the caufe now depending before the tribunal ? Caufes, and not
parties to caufes, are weighed by juftice, in her equal fcales :
On the formerfoldy, her attention is fixed': To the latter, fhe
is, as fe is painted, blirid.
I have now tried this queftion by all the touchilones, to which
I propofed to apply it. I have examined it by the principles of
general jurifprudence.; hy the laws and pra&ice of States and
Kingdoms ; and by the Conflitution of the'UnitedStates. From
-all, the combined inference is, that the adion lies.
CUSHIHG, 7flice. The grand and principalqueftion in this
cafe is, whether a State can, by the Federal Conftitutiori, be
fued by an individual citizen of another State ?
The point turns not upon the law or pra&ice of Englaod, although perhaps, it maybe in fome meafure elucidated thereby,
nor upon the law of any other country whatever ; but upon
the'Conftitution eftablifhed by the people of the United States ;
and particuiarly upon the extent of powers given to the Fcederal Judicial in the 2d feclion of the 3 d article of the Conflitution. It is declared that cc the Judicial power (hal extend
to all cafes inIlaw and equity arifing under the Conftitution, the
laws of the United .tates, or treaties made or which ihall be
made under their authority'; to all cafes affeffing ambaffadors or
other public minifters and confuls ; to all cafes of admiralty and
maritime jurifdraion ;*to controverfies, tq which the Uitited
State.
4-rto . s. a.

Sum.tnu

CourT of the UnitedSast

Stater fliall be a party ; to controverfies between two or more 1793States and citizens of another State ; between citizens of different States; between citizens o the fame State claiming
lands under grants of different States; and between a State and
citizens thereof and foreign States, citizens or fubje&s." The.
judicial power, then, is exprefsly e'xtended to " controverflies
between a State and citizens of another State." When a citizen
makes a demand againft a State, of which be is not a citizen,
it is as really a controverfy bctween a State and a citizen of another State, as if fuch State made a demand againf fuch citizen.
The cafe, then, feems clearly to fall within the letter of the
Confltution. It may be fuggefted that it could not be intended
to fubje& a State to be a Defendant, becaufe it would effeft the
fovereignty of States. If that be the cafe, what fhall we do
with the immediate preceding claufe ; " eontroveries-bet'ween
Iwo or more States," where a State muft of neceffity be Defendant ? If it was not the intent, in the very next claufe aifo,
that a State might be made Defendant, why was. it fo expreffed
as naturally to lead to and comprehend that idea ? Why -,%as
not an exception made if one-was intended?
claufe of the fe&ion
Again -what are we to do,with the lalt
of judicial powers, viz. - Controverles betveen a late, or the
citizens thereof, and, foreign fiates or citizens ?" Here again,_
,tates muft be fuable or liable to be made Defendants, by this
claufe, which has a fimilar mode of language with the two other
claufes I have remiar.ked upon. For if the judicial power extends to a controverfy between one of,the U'nited States and a
foreign State, as the claufe expreffes, one of them muft be Defendant. And then,. what,becomes of the fovjereignty of States
as. far as fuing affes-.it? But although the wvords, appear reciprocally to affe& the State here and a foreign State,. and put
them on the fame footing as far as may be, yet ingenuity may.
fay, that the State here may fue, but cannot be fued; but that
the foreign State may be fued but cannot fue. We may touch
foreign fovereignties hut not our own.. But I conceive the rea,.
fon of the thing, as well as the words of the Conititution, tend

to flew that the Feederl, Judicia. power extends to a fuit
brought by a foreign State againft any one of the United States.
the
ONE defign of the general Governmentwas for managing

great affairs of peace and war and the general deface; which
were impoffible to be condu&ed, with ILfety, by the States.(parately. Incident to thefe p6wers, and for prevenftig controverfies between foreign powers or -itizens from rifing to extremeties and to an appeal to the fword, a national tribunal was
3aeceffary, amicably to decide them, and thus ward off fuch fatal, public calamity. Thus, States at home and. their-citizen.
and foreign States and their citizens, are put together without-

N=m Z

dfil

'

463
CAsEs ruled and idjudgea in the
diflintion upon the fame tooting, as far as may
be, as-to contro,.
verfies between them. So alfo, with refpe& to controverfies
between a State and citizens of gnother State (at home) comparing
all t: e claufes together, th6 Teme4y is reciprocal ; the
claim to
juftice equal. As controverfies between State and State,
and
between a State and citizens of another State, might
tend
gra..
dually to involve States in 'ar and bloodfhed, a difinterefted
civil tribunal was intended to be inftituted to decide fuch
troverfies, and preferve peace and friendfhip, Further con.
State is entitled to Juftire in the Fcederal Court, againft i if a
a citizen of another State,
why not fuch citizen againit the State'

when tht fame language equally comprehends
both ? The
rights of mdividuals and the juftice due to
them, are, as dear
and precious as thofe of States. Indeed.the
ed upon the former ; and the great end and latter are found,
objeCt of them

muft be t' fecur and fupport the rights of
individuals, or
elfe vain is Government.
But frill it may be infifted, that this will reduce
States to
mere corporations, and take away all fovereignty.
As to corporations, all States whatever are corporations or
The only queftion is, What are their powers ? bodies politic.
As to individual States and the Unied States, the Conflitution
boundary of powers. Whatever power is depofitedmarks the
Union by the people for their own neccfiary fecurity, with the
curtailing of the power and prerogatives of States. is fo far a
This is,
as it were, a felf-evident propoition ; at leaft
it cannot be
contefted. Thus the power of declaring war,
making peace,
raifing and fupporting armies for public defence,
levying
duties4
excifes and taxes, if necefflary, with many other
powers,
lodged in Congref j and are a moft effential abridgement aie
of
State fovereignty," Again ; the reftri&ions upon
States ; c No
State fhall enter into any treaty, alliance, or
confederation,

coin
money, emit bills of credit, make any thing but
gold and Jilver a
tender in payment of debts, paf - any law impairing
4
the obligation
of contra7s s" thefe, with a number
of others,

are important
reftrid"ions cf the power of States, and were thought
necef.
fary to maintain
the Union; and to eftabli(h fome fundamental
uniform principles of public juftice, throughout
the whole

Union. So that, I think, no argument of force
can
from the fovereignty of States. Where it has been be taken
abridged,
it
was thought necffiary for the greater indifpcnfable

whole. If the Conftitution is found inconvenient good of the
in practice.
in this or any other particular, it is well that a regular
mode is
Tointed out for amendment. But; while it
remains, all offices
Igifative, Executive, and Judicial, both of the
States and
9f ;he Union, are bound br oath to fupport
it.

Ori

SuPREmBs Courr of the United States.
One other objedion has been fuggefted, that if a State may 1793,
be fued by a citizen of another State, then the United States %
may be fued by a citizen of any of the States, or, in other
words, by'any of their citizens. Jf this be- a necefrary confei4uence, itmuft be fo. I doubt the confequence, from the different wording of the different claufes, conneded with other
reafons. When fpeaking of the United States, the Conifitution
fays " controveofies to which the UNITED STATESJiall be a part" not controverfies between the United States and any of their
citizens. When fpeaking of States, it fays, " controverfies be.
twveen two or more ]lates ; between a jfate and citizens of another

iate." As to reafons for citizens fuing a differcnt State, which
do not hold equally good for fuing the United States ; one may
be, that as controverfies between a State and citizens of another
State, might have a tendency to involve both States'in conteit,
and perhaps in war, a common umpire to decide fuch controverfies, may have a tendency to prevent the mifchief. That an oh-.
ied of this kind was had in view by the framers of the Confti.
tution, I have no doubt, when I confider the clafhing interfering laws which were made in the neighbouring States, before
the adoption of the Conftitution, and fome affeding the property of citizens of another State in a very different manner
from that of their own citizens. But I do not think it neceffaTy to enter fully into the queftion, whether the United States
are liable to be fued by an individual citizen ? In order to decide the point before us. Upon the whole, I am of opinion,
that the Ccnftitution warrants a fuit again a State, by an individual citizen of another State,
A fecond queftion made in the cafe was, whether the particular action of arumpflit could lie againif a State ? I think affunpfit will lie, if any fuit ; provided a State is capable of contradfing.
The third queftlibn refpe~ls the competency of fervice, which
I apprehend is good and proper ; the fervice being by fummons
and notifying the fuit to the Governor ana the Attorney General ; the Governor, who is the Supreme E xecutive Magiftrate
and reprefentative of the State, who is bound by oath to defend
the State, and by the Conflitution to give information to the Le.
giflature of all important matters which concern the inteieft of
the State ; the Attorney GenEral who is bound to defend the
iptereft of the State in Courts of, Law.
JAY, Chief Jzffuice. The queftion we are now to decide has
been accurately Rated, viz. Is a State fuable by individual citigens of anothef State ?

It is faid, that Georgia refufes to appear and anfwer to the
Plaintiff in this aftion, becaufe fIe is a jfvereign State, and
therefore not liable to fuch aCtions. In order to afcertain the merits

470

CAsEs ruled

and adjudged in the

1793. rits of this objetion, let us enquire, ift. In what fenfe Giorgji7 it
"'"V" a fovercign State. 2d. Whether
fuability is incomp-table with
fuch fovereignty. 3 d. Whether the Conifitution (to which Georgia is a party) authorifes fuch an a&ion againft her.
Suability and fuable are words not in common ufe, but they
concifely mad correedtly convey the idea annexed to them.
ift. In determining the fenfe in which Georgia is a fovereign
State, it may be ufeful to turn'ourattention to the political fituation we were in, prior to the Revolution, and to the political
rights which emerged from the Revolution. All the country
fnow poffeffed by 'the United States was then a part of the dominions appertaining to the crow- of Great Britain. Every acre
of land in this country was then held mediately or immediately by grants from that crown. All the people of this country
were then, fubjeds of the King of Great Britain, and owed
allegiance to him ; and all the civil authority then exifting or
exercifed here, flowed from the head' of the Briti Empire.
'They were in ftri "fenfefdlo-v fubjeds, and in a variety of
refpe&s one peopk. When the Revolution commenced, the
patriots did not affert that only the fame affinity and focial con .ne&ion fubfted between the people, of the colonies, which fubfil.ed between the people of Gaul, Britain, and Spain, while Roman Prov'incs, viz. only that affinity and focial conneclion which
refult from the mere circumftance of being governedby the fame
Prince; different ideas prevailed, and gave occafion to the Congrefsof 1774 and 1775The Revolution, or rather- the Declaration of Independence,
found the people already united for general purpofes, and at
the fame time providing for their more domeftic concerns by
State conventions, and other temporary arrangements. From
the crown of Great Britain, the fovereignty of their country
pafled to the people of it ; and it was then not an uncommon
opinion, that the unappropriated lands, which belonged to that
crown, paffed not to the people of the Colony or States within
• Vhofe limits they were fituated, but to the whole people; on
whatever principles this Opinion refted, it did not give-way to
rhc other, and thirteen fovereignties were confidered as emerged from the principles of the Revolution, combined with local
coivefhience and confiderations ; the people neverthelefs continued to confider themfelvcs, in a national point of view, as one
people ; and they continued without 'interruption to manage
their natibnal 'concerns accordingly ; afterwards, in the hurry
of the war, and in the warmth of mutual confidence, thei,
made a confederation of the States, the bafis of a general Go,vernmcert. Experience difappointed the expeitations they had
formed from it ; and then the people, in their colletive ana
rational capacity, eftablilled the prefent Conflitution. It is reremarkable-

SuP.EME Cou-T of the United States.

markabie that in eftablifhing it, the people exercifed their own [793rights, and their own proper fovereignty, and confcious of the L
plenitude 'of it, they declared with becoming dignity, " We
'the people of the United States, do ordain and eftablifh this
c, Confit~ution." Here we fee the people a&ing as fovereigns
of the whole country ; and in the language of fovereignty, eftablifhing a Conftitution by which it was their will, that the
State Governments fhould be bound, and to which the State
Conititutions fhould be made to conform. Every State Conftitution is a compa& made by and between-the citizens of a State
to govern themfelves in a certain manner ; and the Conftitution of the United States is likewife a compa& made by the people of the United States to govern themfelves as to general objeas, in a certain manner. By this great compa& however,
many prerogatives were transferred to The national Government,
fuch is thofe of making war and peace, contra&ing alliances,
coining money, &c. &c.
If then it be true, that the fovereignty of the nation is in the
people of the nation, and the refiduary fovertinty of each State
in the people of each State, it may be ufeful to compare thefe.
fovereignties with thofe in Europe, that we may thence be enabled to judge, whether all the prerogatives which are allowed
to the latter, are fo effential to the former. There is reafon to
fufpeEL that fome of the difficulties which embarrafs the prefent
q ueftion, arife from inattpntion to differences which fubfift between them.
It will be fufficient to obferve briefly, that the fovereignties
in Europe, and particularly in England, exift otifeudal principles. That fyftem confiders the Prince as thefovereign, and the
peopk as his fubjers ; it regards his perfon as the obje& of allegiance, and excludes the idea of his being on an equal footing
with a fubje&, either in a Court of Juftice or elfewhere.
Thai fyftem contemplates him as being the fountain of honor
and authority ; and from his grace and grant derives all franchifes, immunities and privileges ; it is eafy to perceive that
fach a fovereign could not be amenable to a Court of Juftice, or
fubje6ted to judicial controul and aaual contraint. it was of
neceflity, therefore, that fuability became incompztible with
fuch fovereignty. Beides, the Prince having all the Executive
powers, the judgment of the Courts would, in faa, be only
monitory, not mandatory to him, and a capacity to be advifed,
is a diftin& thing from a capacity to be fued. The fame fiudal
ideas run through all their juiJfprudence, and conflantly remind
us of the diftin&ion between the Prince and the ftibjet.a. No
Luch ideas obtain here ; at the Revolution, the fovereignty de
volved on the peeple ; an& they are truly the fovereigns of the
country, but they arejkeireigns withoutJuljec7s (unleft tbe 4fricall

47
.

CAsts ruled and adjudged in the

1793. can flaves among us may be fo called) and have zione to g6verdl
but thebnfelvex ; the citizens of 4merica,are equal as fellow citi.

zens, and as joint tenants in thi fovereignty.
From the differences exifting between feudal fovereignties
and Governments founded on compa&s, it neceffarily follows
that their refpe&ive prerogatives muft differ. Soverignty is
the right to govern , a nation or State-fovereign is the perfonor
perfons in whom that refides. In Europe the fovereignty is ge.
net ally afcribed to the Prince; here it refts with the people;
there; the fovereign a&ually adminifters the Government; here,
never in a fingle hiftance ; our Governors are the agents of the
people, and at moft ftand in the fame relation to their fove..
reign, in which regents in Europe ftand to their fovereigns.
Their Princeshaveperfonal powers, dignities, and pre-eminences,
our rulers have none but o#cial ; nor do they partake in the fovereignty otherwife, or in any other capacity, than as private citizens.
2d. The fecond obje6t of enquiry now prefents itfelf, viz.
whether fuability is compatible with'State fovereignty.
Suability, by whom ? Not a fubje6t, for in this country
there are none ; not an inferior, for all the citizens being as to
civil rights perfedly equal, there is not, in that refpe q, one citizen inferior to another., It is agreed, that one free citizen may
fue another ; the obvious di6tates of juftice, and the purpofes
of Lociety demanding it. It is agreed, that one free citizen may
fue any number on whom procefs can be conveniently executed ; nay, in certain cafes one citizen iay fue forty thoufand; forwhere a corporation is fued, all the members of
it are aRally fued, though not perfnally, fued. In this' city"
there are forty odd thoufand free citizens, all of whom may be
colle&ively fued by any individual citizen. In the State of
.Delaware, there are fifty odd thoufand free citizens, and what
reafon can he afligned why a free citizen who has demands againff themfliould not profecute them ? Can the difference
betwcer forty odd thoufand, and fifty odd thoufand make any"
diftintion as to right ? Is it not as eafy, ind as convenient
to the public' and parties, to ferve a fummons on the Governor
and Attorney General of Delaivare, as on the Mayor or 'other
Officcs of the Corporation of Philadelphia ? Will it be faid,
that the fifty odd thoufand citizens in .)<Jazwarebeing affociated
under a State Goverfiment, fRand in a raik fo fuperior to the
foty odd thoufand of Philadelphia, affociated under theirchar.
ter, that although it may become the latter io meet an individual on anequal footing in a Court of Jiftice; yet that fuch a procedure would not comport with the dignity of the former ?In this land of equal liberty, fhall forty odd thoufand in one
place be compellble to do juitice, and yet fifty odd thoufand in
anothe

SVPREME COU#tT

6f the United Sti.ero

*473

-Aother place be pzivileged to do juftice only as they may think 1793
0
proper ? Such obje&ions would not correfpond with the equal
and
admire
to
profefs
we
equality
the
with
;
rights we claim
cimaintain, and with that popular fovereignty in which every an
holds
Delaware
of
Governor
the
tizen partakes. Grant that
they are
office of fuperior rank to the Mayor of Philadelphia,
more
however
and
people;
the
both neverthelefs the, officers of
of
opinion
the
in
yet
other,
the
than
be
may
exalted the one
good
a
be
cannot
thofe who diflike ariftocracy, that circumflance
reafon for impeding the courfe of juftice.
If there be any fuch incompatability as is pretended, whence
does it arife ? In what does it confift ? There is at leaft one
that is
11rong undeniable faa againft this incompatibility, and this
in
State,
another
fue
this, any oie State in the U2ion may
peothe
all
fue
may
State
one
of
people
the
Court, that is, all
ple of another State. It is plain then, that a State may befted,
fivereignty
and hence it plainly follows, thatjuabiliij and fate

in
are not incompatible. As one State may fte another State
thougLt
is
State
a
to
this Court, it is plain that no degradation
therefore
to accompany her appearance in this Court. It is not
To
to an appearance in this Court that the objclion points. of
fuit
the
at
appearance
an
to
points
It
what does it point ?
one or more citizens. But why it fhould be more incompatible, that all the people of . State (hould be fued by one citizen,
procefs
than by one hundred thoufand, I cannot perceive, the
judgment
a
of
in both cafes being alike ; and the confequences
one
alike. Nor can I obferve any greater inconveniencies in the
feelings
the
from
arife
may
what
except
cafe than in the other,*
light,
of thofe who may regard a leffer number wi an inferior
objeaion)
an
as
inferiority
this
on
made
be
reliance
But if any
that
at leaft one ha/fof its force is done away by this fa&, viz.
Plaintiff
as
Court
this
in
appear
may
it is conceded that a State
that
againit a fingle citizen as Defendant ; and the truth is,

an a&ion in
the State of Georgia i3 at this moment profecuting
Carolina."'
South
of
citizens
two
againft
this Court
is,
The only remnant of obje&ion therefore that remains
Dtfendant
a
as
anfwer
and
appear
to
bound
tat the State is not
that fhe
at the fuit of 'an individual - but why it is unreafonabl:
faid to
is
rule
That
:
conjeaure
to
fhould be fo bound, is hard
of
citizens
the
;
ways
both'
work
not
does
whieh
one,
be a bad
other
of
citizens
fuing
Georgia-are content with a right of
fhoulA
States ; but are not content that citizens of other States
have a right to fue them.
be,
Let us now proceed to equire whether Georgia has not, by
by
fuable
be
to
confented
compa&,
national
the
to
party
ing a
naturally
enquiry
This
lndividual "citizens of another State.
leads
Ooo
r.
Ain.
Geo.gia v. Brailsford, et alb

474

CAsES ruled and adjudged in the

1793. -leads our attention, i ft. To the defign of the Conftituton.
2d. To the letter and exprefs declaration in it.
Prior to the date of the Conilitution, the people had not any
national tribunal to which they could refort for juftice ; the
diftribution of juftice was then copfined to State judicatories,
in whofe inflitution and organization the people of the other
States had no participation, and over whom they had not -the
leaft controul. There was then no general Court of appellate
jurifdidion, by whom the errors of State Courts, affecting either the nation at large or the citizens of any 6ther State, could
be revifed and corn'eOed. Each State was obliged- to acquiefce
in the meafure of juftice which another State might yield to
her, or to her citizens ; and that even in cafes where.State confiderations were not always favorable to the moft exa6 meafure.
There was danger that fromt this fource animofities would in
time refult; and as the tranfition from animofities to hoftilities
was frequent in the hiftory of independent States, a common
tribunal for the termination of controverfies became defirable.
from motives both of juftice and of policy.
Prior alfo to that period, the United States had, by taking a
place among the nations of the earth, become amenable to the
laws' of nations; hnd it was their intereft as well as- their duty to provide', that thofe laws fiould be refpe6led and obeyed ;
in their national character and capacity, the Unilted States Were
refponfible to foreign nations for the cbndu6t of'each State, re.
lative to the laws 6f nations, and the performance of treaties ;
and there the inexpediency of referring all fuch queftions to
State Courts, and particularly to the Courts of delinquent States
became apparent. W'hile all the States were bound to prote t
each, and the citizens ofeach, it was highly proper.and reafonable, ihat they fhould be in a capacity, not only to caufe jufficI tobe done to each, and the citizens of each; but alfo to caufejuftice to be done by each, and the citizens of each ; and that, not
by violence and force, but in a ftable, fedate, and regular courfe
of judicial procedure.
'Chefe were among the evils againft which it was proper for
6,e nation, that is, the people of all the United States, to proVide by a national judiciary, to be inflituted by the whole nation,
avd to'be refponfible to the whole nation.
Let us now turn to the Contfitution. The people therein
declare, that their defign in eftablifhing it, comprehendedfx
oje~s. ift. To form a more perfect union. 2d. To eftablifli
juftice. 3 d. To enfure domeftic tran'quihity. 4 th. To provide
for the common defence. 5 th; To promote the general welfare.. 6th. To fecure the bleffings of liberty to themfelves and
their pofterity. It would be pleafing and ufcful to confider and
trace the reations which each of thefe objets bears to the others;
and

'V

-

SurPEmE CouRT of the United tatp.
and to fhew that they collefively comprife every thing requifite, with the bleffing of Divine Providence, to render a people
profperous and happy on the prefent occafion fuch difquifitions would be unfeafonable, becaufe foreign to the fubje a
immediately under confideration.
It may he aiked,* what is the precife fenfe and latitude in
which the words " to elablji/juflice," as here ufed, are to be
underftood ? The anfwer to this queftion will refult from the
provifiofis made in the Conftitution on this head. They are
fpecified in the 2d. fe&ion of the 3 d article, where it is ordained, that thejudicial power of the UnitedStates fhall extend
to ten deferiptions of cafes, viz. ift. To all cafes arifing un.der this Conftitution; becaufe the meaning, conftruetion, and
operation of a compa& ought always to be afcertained by all
the parties, or by authority derived only from one of iliem. 2d.
To all cafes arifing u4nder the laws of- the United &ti's; becaufe as fuch laws conftitutionally made, are obligatory on each
State, the meafure of obligation and obedience ought not to be
decided and fixed by the party from whom they. are due, but
by a tribunal deriving authority from both the parties. 3 d.
To'all cafes arifing under treaties made by their authority ; becaufe, as treaties are comp a&s made'by, and obligatory on; the
whole nation, their operation ought not to be affected .or regulated by the local laws or Courts of a part of the nation. 4 th.
To all cafes affecfing Ambaffadors, or other public' Minifters
and Confuls ; becaufe, as thefe are ol~cers of foreign nations,
whom this nation are bound to proteat and treat according to
the laws of nations, cafes affe&ing them ouit only to be cognizable by national authority. 5 th. To all cafes of Admiralty and Maritimejurifdi&ion ; becaufe, as the feas.are the join'.
property of nations, wh6fe right and pritileges ielative. thereto, are regulated by the law of nations and treaties, fuch cafes
neceflarily belong to national jurifdiaion. 6th. To controverfies to which the United States flhall be a party ; becaute in cafes
in which the whole people are interefted, it would not be equal
or wife to 'let any one State decide and meafure out the juftice
due to others. 7th. T6 controverfes between two or more
Stafes ; becatfe domeftic tranquillity .recqires, that the contcutions of States fhould be peaceably termin.ited by a common judilatory ; and, becaufe, in a free country juflice ought not to
depend on the will of either of the litigants. 8th. To controverfies betOren a State and citizens of another '-'tate 5 becanfe in cafe a State (that is all the citizens of it) has demand&
againft fome. citizens of another State, it is better that fhe
fliould profecute their demands in a national Court; than in a
Court of the State to which thofe citizens belong ; the danger
of irritation" and criminations arifwg from apprcihcnfions and
.fufpiciens
0oo z

T 793.

476

CASES- ruled and adjudged in the

1793- fufpicions of partiality, being thereby obviated. Becaufe, iQr
cafes where fome citizens of one State have demands againftall the citizens of another State, the catife of liberty and the
rights of men forbid, that the latter fliould be the fole Judgea
of the luftice due to the latter ; and true Republican Government.requires that free and equal citizens fbould have free, fair,
and eqil juflice. 9 th. To cottroVerfies between citizens of
the fame State, claiming lands under grants of different States ;
becaufe, as the, rights, of the two States to grant the-land, are
drawn into queftion, neither of the two States oiight to decide
the controverfy. joth, To c'ontror erfies between a State, or
the citizens thereof and foreign 'States, citizens or fubje&s ;.
becanfe as every nation is refponfible for the condu61 of its,
citizens towards other nations ; all queftions touching thejuf,
tice due to foreign nations, or people, ought to be afcertained
by, and depend on.national authority. Even this curforyview
of the -judicial powers of the, United States, leaves the mind
firongly impreffed with the importance of them to the prefervtion of the tranquillity, the ecual fovereignty, and the equal
right of the people.
Crhe queftion now before us renders it necefary to pay particular attention to that part of the 2d fefion, which extends
hej udicial, power " to controverie's bMveen aftate -adcitizens
ef ancthr fiale." -It is contended, that this ought to be conftrued to reach none of thefe controverfies, excepting thofe in
wiich.a State may be Plaintily The ordinary rules for con-.
lruffion will eafily decide whether thofe words are to be underftood in that Emitted fenfe.
* This extenfion of power is remedial, becaufe it is to fettle
controverfies. It is therefore, to be conftrued liberally. It is
politic, wife,.and good. that, n6t only the controverfies, in
i.hich a State is Plaintf,but alfo thofe in which a State ia
Defendant, fhould be fettled 1 both cafes, therefore, are within
the reafon of tho remedy ; aild ought to be fo adjudged, unlefs
the obvious, plain, and literal fenfe of the words forbid it. If
we attend to the -uord!, ie find them to "be eqxprefs, pofitive,
free from ambiguity, and without room for fuch iinplied expreffions : TJejudi-ial poW"Cr of the United States fJall extend!o controver/ies bet'ween ajlate"and citizens ?f aniotherIkite." If
the Conftitution really meant to extend 'tliefe powers only to
thofe controverfies in which a State might be Plaintyi t'o the'
cxclqfioniof thofe in which citizens had demands againft a
State,, it is inconceivable that it flipuld have attempted to convey that meaning in words, 'hot nly fo inconfpetent, but alfo
repugnant to it ;- if it meant to exclude a certain clafs of -thefe
controverfies, whiy were trey not exprefsly excepted ; on the
contrary, not even an intimation of fuch intention appears in
any-

iv'u-i.,

SLTPRUME COURT of the United States.

uny part of the Conftitution. It cannot be pretehded that
where citizens urge and infift upon demands againft a State,
which the State refufes to admit and comply with, that there is
no controverfy between them.

If it is a controverfy between

them, then it clea-ly falls not only within the fpirit, but the very
wordt of the Conftitution. What is it to the caufe of juftice,
aild how can it effe& the definition of the word controveyy.,
whether the demands which caufe the difpute, are made by a
State anainft citizens of another State, or by the latter againft
the former ? When power is thus extended to a controverfi, it
neceffarily, as to all judicial purpofes, is alfo extended to thofe;
between whom it fubfifts.
The exception contended for, would contradi6 and do violence to the great and leading principles of a free and equal national government, one of the great obje&s of which is, to enfure juflice to all : To the few againft the many, as well as to
the many againft the few. It would be ftrange, indeed, that
the joint and equal fovereigns of this country, fhould, in the
very Conflitution by which they profeffed to efl ably juflice, fo
far deviate from the plain path of equality and impartiality, as
to give to the colleaive citizens of one State, a right of fuing
individual citizens of another State, and yet deny to thofe citizens a right of fuing them. We find the fame general and
comprehenfive manner of expreffing the fame ideas, in a fubfequent claufe - in which the Conftitution ordains, that " in all
cafes affedfing Ambaffadors, other public Minifters and Confuls,
and thofe in ¢which aflatejlhallbe a party, the Supreme Court fliall
have original jurifdi&ion." Did it mean hereparty-Plainti#?
If that only was meant, it would have been eafy to have found
words to exprefs it. Words are to be underftood in their ordi-'
nary and common acceptation, and the word party being in
common ufage, applicable both to Plaintifand Defendant, we
cannot limit it to one of them in the prefent cafe. We find the
Legiflatur of the United Stater expreffing themfelves in the
like general and comprehenfive manner ; they fpeak in the 13 tl
fection of the judicial aa, of controverfies where a State is a
party, and as they do not inipliedly or exprefsly apply that term
to either of the litigants, in particular, we are to underfland
them as fpeaking of toh. In the fame fection they diffinguifhl
the cafes where Ambafldors are PlantiYs, from thofe in which
Ambaflidors, are Defendants, and make different provifions re-

ipeting thofe cafes ; and it is not.unnatural to fuppofe, that
they would in like manner have diftinguiflied between cafes
where a State was Plaintiff, and where a State was Defendant,
if they had intended to make any difference between them ; or
if they had apprehended that the Conftitution had made any
difference between tieni.
I perceive

1793.
-

478
1793k

CAsEs ruled and Adjudged in the

'1 perceive, and therefore candor urges me to mention, a circumilance, whichfeems to favor the oppofite fide of the quef-.
tion. It is this : the fanie feaion of the Conftitution which
extends the judicial power to controverfier c between a State
and the citizens of another State," does alfo extend that power
to controverfies to 'which the United Saites are a party. Now, it
may be £aid, if the word party comprehends both P3laintiff and
Defendant, it follows, that the UnitedStates may be fued by
any citizen, between whom and them there may be a eontroerf;. This appears to me to be fair reafoning ; but the fame
principles of candour Which urge me to mention this objetion,
alfo urge me to fuggeft an important difference between the
two cafes. It is this : in all cafes of alions againft States or
individual citizens, the National Courts are fupported in all
their legal and Conftitutional proceedings and judgments, by
the arm of the Executive power of the United Slales ; but in
cafes of adions againft the United States, there is no power
which the Courts caii call to their aid. From this diftin&ionimportant conclufions are deducible, *and they place the cafe of
a State, and the cafe of the ZTnited States, in very different points
of view.
I wifh the State of fociety was fo far improved, and the
fcience of Government advanced to fuch a degree of perfe~tion,.
as that the whole nation could in the peaceable courfe of law,
be compelled to do juftice, abd be tued by individual citizens.
Whether that is, or is not, iiow the cafe, ought not to be thus.
collaterally and incidentally decided : I leave it a queflion.
As this opinion, though deliberafely formed, has been haftiIvreduced to writing between the intervals of the daily adjournments, and while my mind was occupied and wearied by the
bufinefs of the day, I fear it is lefs concife and conne&ed than
it night otherwife have been. I have made no references to
cafes, becaufe I know of none that are not diftinguifliable from
his cafe j nor does it appear to me neceffary to fliew that the
entimentsof the bcft writers on Government and the rights
of men, harmon'ize with the principles which-direa my judgment on the prefent queftion. The aats of the former C*ngref./rs, and the ac"s of many of the State Conventions, are replete
with finilar ideas; and to the honor of the 'United -tates, it
may be obferved, that in no other country are fubje&s of this
kin.-d better, if fo weib underlood. The attention and attachmetn of the Coriftitution to the equal rights of the people are
dlfcernabl in almoft every fentence of it; and it is to be 'regretted that the provifion in it which. we have been confidering,
has not in every inltance received the approbation and acquiefcence which it merits. Georgia has in ftrong language advoeated the caufe of republican equality: and there is reafon tc
bop.

SuPaRM CouIT of the United States.

kope that the people of that State will yet perceive tlaa. it would i793.
not have been confiftent with that equality, to have exempted t
the body of her citizens from that fuability, which they are at
this moment exercifing againft citizens of another State.
For my own part, I am convinced. that the fenfe in Which I
underftand and have explained the words " controverfies between States and citizens of another State," i5 the true fenfe.
The- extenfion of the judiciary power of the United States to
fuch controverfies, appears to me to be wie, becaufe it is honefl,
and becaufe it is tl'uf. It is honefl, becaufe it provides for doing juftice without refpe& of perfons, and by fecuring individual citizens as well as jltates, in their refpe&ive rights, performs die promife which every free Government makes to every
free citizen, of equal juftice and proteaion. It is qfiful, becaufe it is honeft, becaufe it leaves not even the mok obfcure
and friendlefs citizen without means of obtaining juftice from a
neighbouring State; becaufe it obviates occafions of quarrels
between States on account of the claims of their refpe&ive citizens ; becaufe it recognizes and ftrongly refts on this great moral truth, that juftice is the fame whether due from one man or
a million, or from a million to one man i becaufe it teacheg
and greatly appreciates the value of our free republican national
Government, which places all our citizens on an equal footing,
and enables each and every of them' to obtain jailice without
any danger of being overborne by the weight and number of
their opponents ; and, becaufe it brings into a&ion, and enforces
this great and glorious principle, that the people are the fovereign of this country, and confequently that fellow'citizens and
joint foe.reigns carmot be degraded by appearing with each other
in their own Courts to have their controverfies determined.
The people have reafon to prize and rejoice- in fueh valuable
privileges ; and they ought not to forget, that nothing but the
free courfe of Conflitutional law and Government can enfure.
the continuance and enjoyment of them.
For the reafons before given, I am clearly of opiniori, that
a State is fuable by citizens of another State; but leg I flould
be underftood in a latitude beyond my meaning, I think it nccefrary to fubjoin this caution, viz, That fuch fuability may neverthelefs not extend to all the demands, and to every kind of
a&ion ; there may be exceptions. For inftance, I am far from
being prepared to fay that an individual may fue a State on bill.;
of credii iffued before the Conititution was eftabliflied, and
'Which were iffued and received on the faith of the State, and
ata time when no ideas or expe&ations of judicial interpolitiot
wdre entertained or contemplate(l.

CAs E ruled and adjudged in tilt
t.

1793.
The following order wa" made :-BY THE COURT. It is o'
tiered, that the Plaintiff in this caufe do file his declaration oil
or before the firft day of March next.
Ordered, that certified copies of the faid declaration be ferved on the Governor-and Attorney General of the State of Georgia, on or before the firft day of une next.
Ordered, that unlefs the faid State {hall either in due form appear, or fliew caufe to the contrary in this Court, by the firft
day of next Te'rm, judgment by default fhal be entered againit
the faid State.*

Aziguft Term,

T

1793.

HE Court bein'g met, a commiffion appointing WILLIAM
PATERSON, one of the Juffices, bearing date the 4 th of

.darch, 1793, was read; and he was qualified according to
law.t

In lFebruary Term, 1794, judgment was rendered for the
Plaintiff, and a .Writ of Euquiry awarded. The Writ, however,
was not fued out and executed ; fo that this caufe, and all the other
fuits againft States, were fwept at once from the Records of the
Court, by the amendment to the Federal Conflitution, agreeably to the
unanimous determination of the Judges, in I-ollingsworth et al. v.
Virginia, argued at February Term, 1798.
"i"Judge PATERSON'S appointment was in the rooni of Mr. Justice
7obnson, who had refigned.
The Malignant Fever, which during this year, raged in the City of
Philadelphia, dirperfed the great body of its inhabitants, and proved
fatal to thoufands, interrupted, likewife, the bufinefs of the Courts ;
and I cannot trace, that any important caufe was agitated in the
prefent Term.

ThE END OF T-TE

SECOND VULUME,

