252

,1796.
,

CASEs rtiled and adjudged in the

It is a general rule, 'that any exception which may be taken
advantage of on a writ of Error, may, alfo, be taken advahtage of, on a motion in arreft of judgmeni. By the declaration,
it appears, that-the party had not a caufe of aaion; fince the
promiffory note is there ifated to have- been. made payable to
ruyton only, and not to his order. For this defe& of title
(which will be apparent from the record whenever, and wherever, it may be examined) there is no &oubt the judgment would
"$ereverfed on a removal into the High Court of Errors and Appeals : Atid, if it would be fufficient grourid to reverfe, I repeat, that it is a fufficient ground to arreft, the judgment.
Judgment arrefted.
HA.TSHORiiE'S Lefree veifus PATTON.

'F HIS caufe had been tried repeatedly in the city of PR.IaLdelphia ; -but theJury could not, "n an infb3Xce, agree
upon a verdia. Ingerfol., therefore, fuggefte,! to the Court,
that in order to obtain a Jury, whofe minds were unbiaffed by
reports, difcuflions, and converfations, relating to the controveify, the fherifffhould be direfted to return a pannel fror the
the county, exclufive of the city.
Mc'Kean, on the other hand, obferved, that the Court could
not give any fuch direfions without confent of the parties, and
that, confent would not be given.
BY THIE COURT :---Can we dire the fheriff to take a Jury
from any particular part of a county ? Surely not.. There
are no perfons, in fa&, interefted, but the parties and if a legal exception can be eftablifhed againft the whole pinnel, or any
individual Juror, it will be allowed at the proper time.
PrRiT, Executrix verfus W.iLLIs.
NIS was an a&ion of debt, on a bond which was executed
Tupon the 29 th of f7anuary 1789, by the defendant, to
Peletid/t Weljer, the'Teftator, in the penal fun of/goo, with
the following condition fubjoined : ", Whereas the faid Samuel
WValli did,'by his deed, duly executed under his hand and feal,
bearfig even date with thefe prefents, grant, bargain 9nd fell unto
the faid Peldeiab 4/ledr a certain traC of land therein defcrib'ed, containing i 2,625 acres, and contra~ted to make i. clear title:in fee, undeta patent or patents from the State of Pennfyl.
"vanw, for the fhme: And whereas patents for the faid lands have'
T1ot

