36o

CAshs ruleA and' adjudged ini
the

t796.

OV7olet

Term, X796.

Prefent, WILSON and PETERS,
S&H-RmEmoRo

.7uffcot

verfus L'ESPENASSE et al.

B

ILL in Equity. This bill ftated that on the ift of Decem.
3
ber, 1790, the defendants, merchants of Amterdam, had
executed to the complainant (who refided at the fame place)
a
Power of Attorney to receive to his own ufe, the intereft due
on i8oooo dollars of certificates of the United States bearing
intereft at 6 per cent, from the ift Jan. 1788, to the 31ft Dec.
1790, amounting to 32,4oo dollars; but that, notwithftanding
this afiignment, the defendants on the a6th 7une 1792, received
certificates for the 32,400 dollars of intereft, and agreeably to
the aCt of Congrefs, funded the amount at 3 per cent in their

own

In Wison, plaintiff in error v. Daniel, in the Supreme Court of the
United States,-afAugust term r398 (in the abtence ofWILsoN, yustice)
nE COUiRT adjudged, that the verdift, or judgment, was not to be
regarded as the rule for fixing tae valueof the matter in difpute, o*
'
2 queftion of jurifdiction : and that the demand of the plaintiff, that
is, the value of the thing put in demand, is to be conlidered ; unlc'fs
the law itfelf makes the rule, as in'an action of debt on a bond (in
which only the penal y and intereft can be recovered) when that rule is
to bepurfixed, whatever-may be the, damages laid in the declaration.
IREDflEL, 7 ustice, agieed in the opinion of the Court, as it applied
to the original fuit in the inferior Court: but he difTented from its
application to the cafe of a Writ of Error, when the funi rendered bv'
the judgment was, in his opinion, to be deemed the value of the matter in difpute, in the Supreme Court.
CHASE, fustice, agreed in the decifion of the Court, becaufe the
legal judgment (of which alone The Court could take notice) was for
the penalty of the bond, on which the a&ion had been brought; though,
in an irregular manner, Ithe record fays, that judgment was to be re.
leafed, upon payment of a fimaller finn, than would authorife the
party to bring a writ of error. He thought that to afcertain the
value of the matter in difPute, the Coffrt mufl- always refer to the
original fu it; but he would not admix, that the demand of the plaintifffurniffhed the rule, atthe plaintiff might, on that iround, entitle
himfelf in every cafe to a writ ofteror by laying his damagrsproportionally high.
"gpr
-

-CIRcUtT CoURT, PehtfluVan;a Tifhia.

361

zwn names. The Bill then prayed relief, according to the 1796.
equity of the cafe, and thai an injunCtion might iffueto prevent
the defendants from transferring the flock, or receiving the
principal or intereft; and alfo to prevent the Regifter and Tranffer Clerk of the Treafury, and the Cafhier of the Baok of the
United States, from allowing a transfer, or paying the principal
or intereft of' the ftock, pending the fuit. On filing the Bill,
Du Ponceau exhibited to the Court the Power of Attorney duly'
authenticated, from the defendants to the complainants; and
his own affidavit ftating, that he had infpeated the books of the
Treafury, where he faw that the identical flock in queftion was
regiftered in the names of the defendants. Under thefe circumflances the injunalion iffued 5 but no fibprna,was ever taken
out, nor any further pro ceedings had in the fit 'till the prefent term, when Lewis moved for a rule to few caufe, why the
injun&ion fliould not be diffolved. Before the motion was argued, Du )oneeau filed another affidavit ftating, that the delay in
iffuing procefs was by miftake and accident; and not from motives of malice and oppreffion ; that he had heard Lewis was to
make the prefent motion near a year ago; and that in expec,
tation it would be made, he had fufpeAided the proceedings on
the part of the complainant, intending as foon as Lewis "hould
appear in the caufe to ferve him with the procefs, as Clerk in,
Court. Lewis admitted that he had been applied to about a
year ago, not on behalf of the defendants, but of Meffirs. Polocks, who claimed the flock (as he alledged) by virtue of a depofit from the complainant himfelf5 but, he infifted, that he
,had poftponed making his application to 'theCourt one term, at
the inftance of D~u Ponceau. Thefe facts being underflood,
Lewis endeavoured to fupport his motion on two grounds:
ift. That th6 injunion had iflued irregularly, as there was no
affidavit made of the truth of the allegations contained in the
Bill ; and 2d. That the complainant had unreafonably delayed"
bringing the caufe to a hearing and decifion. On thefiyft ground,
he obferved, that he did nof object, becaufe the injunclion had
iffued before afubpena was ferved, as there were various cafes
in which juftice could not otherwife b attained; but in no cafe
can an injun&ion be iffued, or awarded' wvithout a previous
affidavit of the truth of the fa&s ftated in the Bill. 2 Harr.Pr.
Gb. 221. 222. 223. 232.-245. 259. Brown Rep. (2. 452. 3 Br.
12.,24. 463. The affidavit filed in this cafe, is not in
Rep. h..
fupport of the Bill, but in proof of an extrinfic, immaterill,
fa6t ; and the Power of Attorney was not of itfelf fufficient.
SucH powers, given in a foreign country, do not always, on
their face, explain the meaning of the parties ; nor can they be
deemed competent evidence of the right pf property. It is true
that. .arr. P. Cb. 2-4j, and .Hinde 583, mrntion, that an iniuctiork
Zz

362
t.

CAsEs

ruled and adjudged in. the

1796. jun6lion may iffue on the exhibit of deeds, writings, or other
evidence; but the former cites Vernon, where not a word is
Laid on the fubje6l, and the latter refers to no authority. On
thefecond ground, it was urged, that the complainant's delaying
his fuit, is affigned in all the books of pra&ice, as a good reafon for diffolving an injun6ion. 2 Harr.Pr.Ch. 259. 16. 17.
Pr.in Cb. 5o8. In this cafe there has never been even an attempt to ferve a fjubpcena and the property being within the
jurifdit1ion of the Court, the defendants (who are not, however,
proved by affidavit to be refident abroad) might have beenfubpcenaed even in Atmflerdam. If afubpena is, not ferved, the only excufe which can be allowed, and which muft be proved, is.
that the party cannot be found ;-but the attempt to find muft
be made.
Du Ponceau and Dallas, for. the complainant, premifed that
they were defirous in any mode to obtain a hearing and decifion
on the merits of the caufe; and offered to mee, the adverfe counfel
inanter, either on the claim of the defendants, or of the parties
for whom he interpofed, upon an anfwer to the prefent Bill, upon
a Crofs Bill, or upon a Bill of Interpleader. If this overture
was reje&ed, the inference muft be conclufive in favor of the
complainant, and the Court will pay no regard -to a motion
made in behalf of perfons, whofe interefts are not involved in
the exifting caufe, and who preferring this infidious courfe, refufe to appear, for the purpofe of enabling the complainant to
conteft their pretenfions. But, in anfwer to the two grounds
urged for diffolving the injunction, it was contended, ift. That,
although an affidavit of the truth of the fais contained in the
Bill, is a regular, and, perhaps, the moft general foundation-for
an injuntion, it is not the only foundation, on which it iffues.
Where the Bill ftates an equity, depending on the difcovery of
the defendant; or a relief is prayed upon circumfiaices hap.
pening within the knowledge of the complainant, and feveral
other analogous cafes, the affidavit' of the party is the -beft evidence of which the fubje& admits; but a Court of Equity will
not, any more than a Court of Law, confine itfelf to one kind
of proof, where there are various kinds of equal validity; much
iefs will it adopt an inferior in exclufion of a'higher kind. Suppole the fa& -depends on a record ; the law lays, that a record
is the only regular proof of its own exiftence; and yet if therule in Chancery is as inflexible, as'it:is Pated to be, the neceffity for the affidavit of the interefted p'ry cannot be fuperfeded
by exhibiting the record itfeif. In 'he -prefent cafe, would the
complainant's affidavit be more fatisfadory to prove the contents of the Power of Attorney, than'the infpe&ion of the inftrument itfelf," as an exhibit in ,he.caufe ?- But, 'it is not on
general principles alone, that the regularity of the proceeding is
maintained

CIRCUIT

C7ouRT, Pennfyl1vania Diftgi&.

363

maintained: all the books bf pra~tice concur in flating, that an 1796.
injuntion may be obtained either upon matter confdTed in the ;
anfwer, or upon fome matter of record, or on fome deed, writing, or other evidence, produced in Court. 2 Barr.Pr.Ch.
221. Hinde Pr.Ch. 583. It ifl'ues upon payment of money into
Court ; and it has been granted to a bankrupt, upon the bare
produ&ion of his certificate, to flay pr 9 ceedingS at law. 2 Harr.
Pr.Cb. 222. 223. Befides, the prefent Bill muft, from the nature of the tranfa~tion. be filed by an Attorney, as the complamant lives abroad; and it would have been fatal to wait for
an affidavit, as the ftock would certainly have been transferred
on the firif intimation of the fuit, or intention to fue. It is
conclufive, however, that by proof, independent of the allegations in the Bill, to wit-the defendant's affignment of the property in queftign to the complainant's ufe, and Du Ponceau's
affidavit of the aefendant's having afterwards converted it to his
own ufe ; there is an apparent fpoliation and fraud. .The confcience of the Court cannot be more fatisfaitorily informed upon
the fubje& ; and it is a ifrong additional circumftance, that notwithftanding the injunlion has fo long bound the property, the
defendants have never attempted to releafe it. 2d. This naturally leads to the fecond confideration, whether the delay has
been fo unreafonable, as to warrant the Court in diffolving the
injunkion; and, of courfe, putting it forever out of their power
to do jufltice to the party really injured, as the Stock will, doubtlefi, be inftantaneoufly transferred. Neither. of the grounds of
the prefent motion at all relate to the merits; and, it may fairly
be remarked, that the delay might more eafily have been prevented by the defendants, than by the complainant. The delay, however, has not proceeded from any intention to opprefs
the defendants, nor to avoid a difcuffion ; it.is-at moft an error,
or laches, of the folicitor, which the Court will not allow to be
converted into an inftrurnerit for the deftruffion. of a juft claim.
The defendants being abroad, it was doubtful how the complainant could proceed to bring the fuit to a decifton. Alitf.ord
3o. 2 Har. Pr.Ch. 222. and where an injun&ion is granted on
the merits, it will not be diffolved before a hearing. If; therefore, the merits are with the complainant, no advantage can
flow from granting the prefent motion; as it is exprefsly laid
down in the hooks, that .where the equity appears evidently for
the plaintif, or his cafe is hard,.an injun&ion di;tolved for unreafonable delay, will, upon motion, be revived.. 2 Harr. Pr.
ClI. 224. The Court will not difolve the injun&ion merely to
give an -opportunity to carry the property (which ought in equity
to be deemed the complainant's) out of its jurifili&ion.
PETERS, Jiffite :-If this were not a cafe, in which an. irreparable injury might-be done, by aUowing the Stock to be plaZz 2 -&d

364
t

CAsts ruled and adjudged in tho

1796 ced beyond the jurifdition of the Court, it would, perhaps, be
proper to infift upon a more rigid pra&ice than has been putued. But the diffoilution of the injun&ion would, probably,
put the property out of the power of the Court; and incapacitate us from doing juftice hereafter to the parties, according to
the ieal merits of their refpe&ive pretenfions. It is proper,
however, to obferve, that I do not think an affidavit to the contents of a Bill, is the only foundation for i ffuing an injunCion.
.Harrr~on, on this point, is himfelf a refpelable authority,
though he cites no other book : but, independent of all written
authorities, reafon and the di&ates of juflice require, that
other proof befides the party's oath fhould be allowed. Nor,
tnder all the circumftances, can I decide, that the delay which
has occurred is without a reafonable excufe. It will be proter, however, in. continuing the injun6ion, to apprife the
complainant, that, unlefs fome good caufe to the contrary is
fhewn, I fhall be for diffolving it, at the next term.
WILSON, Yzflice :---This motion is made on two grounds
ift. That the injunclion originally ifflued on an improper foundation ; and 2d. That there has been an unreafonable delay in
bringing the fuit to a decifion under it. It does not appear to
ire, however, that either of thefe grounds is fufficiently fupported. The irregularity refts folely on the warit of an affidavit; but this, though it is frequently, and, perhaps, generally,
the mode of proceeding, is not, in my opinion, the only one.
In the very cafe now before the Court, the evidence of the Power of Attorney, operating effectually as a transfer of the property, -is certainly firongei evidence, tha(h an affidavit of the
interefted party; With refpe& to the delay, it is fworn to
have happened through inadvertance and miftake ; and no evidence of a wilful procraftination has appeared in the courfe of
the difcuffion. On the contrary, an overture has been made
to bring the merits to a hearing, as expeditioufly as can be devifed. It is to be cdnfidered, likewife, that if the injunction is
diffolved, the Court put it out of their power to do effelual
juftice ; but, if it is continued, juflice can be dorne, eventually,
to the injured party; whether the complainant, the defendant,
-r Meffrs. rollocks, lhall eftabhih a title to the property.
The motion refufed.
WHARTON'S Executors verfus LOWREY.
ILL in Equity.

The Bill was filed in O'oker 1793, to

which had been fettled and figned by
Bopen an ascount,
in April, 1781, touching the, tranfa&ions
the complainants,

between

