--4

CASS ruled and adjudged in the

r792. ceive it as fpecie. Upon a reference, the referrees awarded on.
%'v-'-,ty four pounds ; and, as the caufe had been removed by the defendnt, it then became a queftion, whether the plaintiff fhould
recover double, or any other,- cofts.
By ri-i COURT :-Double cofts is a relative term ;ind it has
been fettled, that the plaintiff fhall not recover doublecofts here,
when, in the Court below, he could not be intitled to recover any.
Under the late a&, giving jurifdition to the Juftices, the large
powers vefted in them feem tp embrace this caufe of action.
There are indeed exclulive words in the ai, but they do not
comprehend the prefent cafe. There mufe, therefore, be
Judgment without cofts.
RAPP verfUt

ELLIOT.

T

HE defendant had pleaded in abatement, that the plaintiff
was a feme covert: And now Howell, for the plaintiff,
moved to ifrike off the plea, not being fupported by any affidavit, as the rules of the Court require. Todd contended that he
could file the affidavit injanter, if the Court flhould "deem it neceffary in this cafe ; but Howell laid it was too late, and that a
dilatory plea could not be recurred to, at this flage of the proceedings.
Br. THR COURT :-As the plea is not fupported by any affidavit, it cannot be fultained ; and we think ibis too late to file
a new-one. The defendant muff, therefore, plead in chief ; or
the plaintiff will be at liberty to fign judgment.
FuRY verfu$ STONE.

'rHE
plaintiff laid his damages at fSoo; but the verdict
L and judgment nj were for£672 13 2. The defendant
hereupon took out a writ.of error, and next day the plaintiff
moved forleave to enter a remittiturof the furplus damages, upon
the authority of U. Blacks. Rep. 643. I Dall.Re.. 134. TFodd oppoled it.
But; BY THE COURT :-There is no difference between this
cafe and that in Blackflone's Reports. We fhall always be difpofed
to favor amendments. Let the remttiturbe entered, upon payment of the cofts of the writ of error.

T

JOHNS verfua NiCHOLS.
HIS was a feigned iffue ; upon which this fingle queftion
wa, fubmited for the opinion of the Cour.'-whether the
power

