CI cUI-. 'COURT, Penitjjlvzznia Diflri&.
T793.
"The UNIT'E"b S TES Verfus GINET, et al.

HIS was inindi&ment againft

tPieitni Cunit aid A7o'n
Bapti? Le Maitre, for a mifdemeanor in fitting out and
arming Les Jumeaux.(The Twins) in the port of Philadelphia,to
be employed in the fervice of the Republic of France, againfE
.reat .8ritain, both powers being at peace with the United
'States. The a on which the 'indi&ment was founded, contained the following fe6tions-:
See. 3. And be -itfurther .enagTed -&nd 'declared, That if any
perfon fhall, within any of -the ports, harbours, bays, rivers, or
other waters of 'the United States, fit out and arm, or attempt
to fit out and arm) or procure to -be fitted out and armed, or
fhall knowingly be concerned in thefurnithing, fitting out or arming of any Aiip or veffel, with intent that fuch fhip or veffel fhall"
be employed in the fervice of any Foreign Prince or State, to
cruife or commit hoftilities upon the fubje&s, -citizens or property of' another Foreign Prince or State, with whom the Unit,ed States are at peace, or fhall iffue or deliver a commiffion
within' the territory or jurifdi&ion of'the United States, for any
Ihip or veffel, 'to the intent that fie may be employed as aforefaid, -every fuch perfon, fo-.offending, fhall, upon convi&ion,
be adjudged guilty of 'a high mifdemeanor,' and fhall be fined
and imprifoned, at the difcretioroafthe Court in which the con'viffion fhall be had, fo as the fine to be impofed lhall in no cafe
be more than five thoufand dollars, and the term of imprifonmerft fhall not exceed three years; and every fuch ihip or velfel,
with her tackle,. apparel, and furniture, together with all materials, arms, ammunitions, and ftores, which may have been pro.
cured for the building and equipment thereof, fhall be forfeited,
one half to the ufe of any perfon who fhall give information of
the off'ence, and the other -half to the ufe of the United States;
Sec..4. And be it further enacted and dedared, That if any
perfon Thall, within the territory or jurifdiftion -of the UnitedStatei, encreafe or augmcnt, or procure to be encreafedor aug..
mented, or fhall be knowingly concerned in encreafing or augmenting the force of any hip of war, cruifer, or other armed
veTel, which, at the time of her arrival within the United Stater,
was a' f*ip of war, cruifer or armed veffel in the fervice 'of a
Foreign Prince or State, or belonging to tie fubje&s or citi-.
2ens'of fuch Prince or State, the fame being at war with ano.
iher Foreign Prince or State with whom the United States arc at
peace by adding to the number or fize of guns of fuch veffel
Svrepared

322

1795.

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

prepared for ule, or by the addition thereto of any equipment
applicable to war, every fuch perfon fo offending fhall,
upon convi&ion, be adjudged guilty of a mifdemeanor, and
thall be fined and imprifoned at the difcretion of the Court, in
which the convi'ion fhall be had, fo as that fuch fine fhall not
exceed one thoufand dollars, nor the term of imprifonment be
more than one year.
The indi&ment was brought upon the 3 d fe&ion. Guinet
only was apprehended ; and, being arraigned, he pleaded nor
guilty.
The material faas that appeared in evidence, upon trial, were
thefe: Les umeaux entered at the port of Philadelhia,in,
the month of
, laden with fugar and coffee, from
Port-au-Prince;and on her arrival fhe mounted four guns and
two fwivels. The veffel, it feemed, had originally been a Bi.
ty2 cutter, employed in the trade to the coaft of Guinea ; and
had ten port-holes on each fide, though only four were arlually open, at thd time of her arrival, to accommodate the four guns,
then mounted. Soon after, a Frenchman applied to a Thip-car..
penter to repair the veiTel, which was in a very rotten Rate ;
and, after fome difiicdlty, a bargain for that purpofe was ftruek;
but the carpenter declared he would only open the number of
ports (twenty) which were pierced when The came into port;
and in all other refpe¢2s fit her -for a merchant-hip. At the
time of repairing her, fhe was owned in fhares by Le Maitre,
the original owner, and feven other Frenchmen. The twenty
ports being opened, and the other repairs of the veffiel proceeding rapidly, the Government inftituted an enquiry into the
fubjeS, in order to afcertain the nature and defign of her
equipments. On examination, the mafter Warden found the
yeffel in great forwardnefs, her twenty ports open, her upper
deck- changed, &c. and four iron guns on carriages, with two
fwivels, were lying on the adjoining wharf. He, therefore, defired the carpenter to defift from working any further on the veffel, and made a rep'ort on the fubjeS, to the Secretary at War ;
who direled, that all the xecent equipments of a warlike nature
fhould be difmantled, and the veffel reftored to the Rlate in
which The was when The arrived. The mafter Warden, accordingly,'caufed the port-holes to be ihut up, and even refufed to allow any ringbolts to be fixed in the veffel. A few days
before The left the port a witnefs faid he Law four guns in her'
hatch-way ; the carpenter who repaired her Laid fhe carried with
her from the wharf, the four guns and two fwivels that fhe had
brought in ; and, according to the Cuftom-Houfe Entry, The failed from the city in ballaft, having nothing in her hold but provifions, water-caflks, and wood for the Thip's ufe. It had been
faid3 at one time, that fhe was to carry flour ; at anothex time that
The

Sfolely

CIRCUIT COURT, Pennfyvania Diftri&.

fhe was to carry paffengers ; and Guinet had told the ip car- 179g.
penter that The would be advertifed'on freight. She- failed in N-Y
the middle of the day, and fome of the workmen went down
in her as far as League-Iftand.
It appeared, likewife, that fhe came to,. at Wilmington ; that
an apprentice to the Pilot on board of her, was left behind in
order to carry on fome guns, cordage, and bedding ; that accordingly, he, in company with his mafter, (who had returned
from Wilmington, after piloting the veffel thither) two or three
Frenchmen that belonged to the veiel, and two black boys, carried and delivered on board, three or four carriage guns; that the
witnefs (who did not go on board) faw no appearance of other
guns, which he. could have done, though it was dark, had
there been port-holes and the guns run out; that the Pilot boat
returned to Philadelphiathe fame night, for the purpofe of carrying to the fhip fome of her crew, and two or three hogfheads ;
that the hogheads were put on boara the Pilot-boat the next
day, and being there opened were found to be filled with a number of little kegs, the contents of which were unknown ; that at
the fame time twenty or thirty muflcets, a number of lanterns,
cans, &c. were put on board ; that the whole of this tr.nfaction took place in the night time, between I o and I I o'clock ;
and that, during the fame night, the Pilot-boat, with three or
four Frenchmen on board, pufhed from the wharf, and failed
down to Wilmington, where the veffel ftill lay; that the things
brought in the Pilot-boat being put on board the fhip, he got
under weigh and proceeded to Reedy-Iland; that there were then
between thirty and forty perfons on board; that the witnefs could
riot perceive that The had any guns or gun carriages on deck,
though this might be owing to its being dark ; that the veffeI
dropt down to New-Caflke ; and the Pilot-boat was again fent
to Philadelphia, by order of an officer (as it would feem) belonged to the veffel, who met the witnefs there, and between 9 and
ro o'clock at night put one or two trunks and a large box on
board the Pilot-boat, at South-ftrdet wharf ; that there were
then lying on the wharf fix guns without carriages, which Guinet told the witnefs he muft take on board the Pilot-boat, at 12
o'clock at night ; that the malts were fo weak, that the witnefs.
was at firft afraid to undertake it ; that he went, however,
to borrow a runner and tackle from an adjoining floop ; that
Guinet concluded to poftpone heaving the guns into the boat 'fill
the next evening; and in the intermediate time the Marfhail
feized the guns and boat, and apprehended the parties
This vas the amount of the general evidence relating to the
equipment of the veffel, angd the evidence particularly pointed
againift the defendant," Guinet, was to the following effe&:
While the veffeIl waa repairing, Guinet was feen frequenitly attending
82 2

324

C~szs ruled- an4 adjudgd' in,the

1795. tending the people at work ; and the mailer Warden, before

he had attended with the owner, underftood that he a6t ed in the charaaer of am interpreter, as the owner could not
fpeak EnglI.. The fhip-carpenter did not fee Guinet 'till the
bargain was firuck, and the repairs were confiderably advanced ;
that afterwards when the owner came, whih was generally twice
a day, he fpoke fo little Zigl/h, that 'Guinet ufed to tranflate.
for him, and on all occafions a& as his interpreter 5 that Guiojet fornetimes.brought orders from the owner to the carpenter;
that he never affumed any right of Gwnerfhip himfeif, but, on
the contrary, once complained to the carpenter, that the owners had not given him fo much as a hat for interpreting. In oppofition, however, to the idea of his being merely an interpreter, it was proved, that when the Marfhall feized the Pilot-boat,
Guinet claimed one of the trunks on board, and declared,
that the guns lying on the wharf belonged to him, he having, as
he alledged. purchafed them, to fell again as merchandize. A
runner and tackle was fent on board while the Pilot-boat was in
the Marfhall's cuftody, but it has never been claimed. G )izet
denied before the Judge, on his examination, that he knew any
thing more of the Pilot-boat, than that fie was goingto New,
Cafi/e, and he had put his baggage on board to fend thither ; but
the Pilot's apprentice being confronted with him, infifted
that he was the 1 jerfon who had ordered the fix cannon to be ta,
ken on board, and that he was acquainted with the tranfa&ion.
When, likewife,Guinet was apprehended, two papers were found,
in his poffefion : one of them was an account, Rlated in his
pwn harid writing, between Le Maitre and himfelf, in which"
were charges for fupplying mufquets, ball, and cannon ; for mo
hies advanced at fundry times on account of the equipments
and for commiffions and attendance in fuperintending the .repairs
and outfit-of the veffel. The other paper was a letter from
Meffrs. Mendenhall C'& Co. of Wilmington, to Guinet, dated
the 2oth of December, 1794, containig the following paffage:
"r Your favor per pole is come to hand.
We think it not poffible to get any 41b. fhot, or any other fize here. We think it
probable, that we can let one of our boats go down with the
things for the ihip they have taken the water caiks on board
already. The account flhall be ready againft you call." The Deputy Colle6tor proved the lManifeft of the floop Farmer, which
brought up fix guns, 6onfigned from Mendenh4al & Co. to
Guinet ; and Guinet-acknowiedged before- the Judge, that the
guns lying at South-ftreet wharf were thofe that had been fa
configned to him.
Levy, for the defendant. This is the firft profecuion that
Las occurred'fince an a"t of Congrefs was paffed on the'fubjeL.
Before the aa was paffedo an *portant
d interefting coxtxo-.

Swhom

,

vetr

CIcUIT CpUmr, Pentfiyania Diftri.

325,

verfy had arifen between the Executive of the Federal Govern.
ment, and the French Minifter; in the courfe of which the latter contended, that, if not by the general law of nations, at leaft
by pofitive compad, the FrenchRepublic was entitled to repair
and equip veffels of war in the ports of the UnitedStates ; fince
the Treaty, by making it exprefsly unlawful for the others, had,
by necefTary implication, made it lawful for her. Treaty Art.
22. As a branch of this controverfy, it had, likewife, been
infifted, that an .Americancitizen had' a right to enter into the
fervice of the French Republic; and the pofition certainly received forne countenance, from the refufal of a Grand Jury in
B on to find Bills of Indidtment againft perfons who had ated
in that manner, and from the acquittal of Gideon Hempfield by
a PhiladelphiaJury. Thefe interpretations and proceedings were,
however, difapproved b, our Executive,; who, on the firft point,
contrary to the avowed fenfe of the great mafs of the people;
conftrued the 22d article of the Treaty, to be merely an exclulion of other belligerent nations from the privilege of equipping in our ports, and not a permiffion to France ; and this diverfity of fentiment between the Government and the Citizens,
finally produced the ad of Congrefs now in queftion. The fection on which this profecution is founded is, indeed, a fevere
and penal one ; but, in proportion to the rigor of the punifnment, will a confeientious Jury require the degree of proof to
be. It contamplates four defcriptions of offence : ift. To fit
out and arm, or attempt to fit out and arm 3 2d. To procure
to be fitted 'ut and armed ; 3 d. To be concerned, knowingly,
in furnifhing, fitting out, or arming any fhip or veffel, with intent that fuch flhip or veffel fhall be employed inthe fervice of
any Foreign Prince or State, to cruife or commit hoflilities upon
a nation at peace with the United States. And 4 th. To iffue or
4eliver a commiffion within the territory or jurifdi&jon of the
UnitedStates for any fhip or veffel, to the intent that fhe may be
fo employed. Two fads, theni are ellential to juftify a conviction. ift. -The veffel muft have been fitted out and armed within
the port of Phiadelphia. And 2d. The defendant muft, at leaft,
have been knowingly concerned in her equipment. xft. With
refpe&t to the firft faa, there is no direa proof that the-veffel
failed with more guns than fhe brought with'herv; and the mere
intention to arm and equip her is not ciminal. Nor even if
cannon, arms -and ammunition had beeit put on board, does it
follow, as a neceffary confequence, that itwas intended to arm
her as a veffel of war in the fervice of Aonce, to cruife againft
the friends Qf 4merica. There is no evidence of fuch cruifing;
nor of the defign, (whether as paffengers or mariners) with
-which the thirty or forty perfons were on board the veffi i; and
military ftores may lawfully be fold Lere, or be 6xported to Fo
reiga

1795.

3z6

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

1795. reign Countries by A4merican citizens : the aft is- only punifha.
ble when the armainqnt and ftores are applied to the ufe of the
c
veffel in which they 'are fhipped. But the moft that can poffibly be inferred from the evidence, is an augmentation of the force
of the veffel, as fhe arrived here with guns aiually mounted ;
and then the ipTdilment fhould have been founded on the 4 th,
inflead of the 3 d fedion, of the aa. There is a great difference,
in he language and penalties of the two fedions, which un-.
doubtedly arofe from the very different nature of the 6afes, to
which they refpedively apply. For, it is neither fo offenfive in
itfelf, nor fo dangerous to the peace of the nation, that a vefl'el
already armed fhiould add fomething to its force, as that a veffel
ifould originally be confirudted and equipped within our ports,
for the purpofes of war. Hence, therefore, the bare attempt
in the latter cafe Is made criminal ; but in the former the unlawful adt muft be confummated. The words of the 4 th feffion
refer to fhips of war, cruifers, or other armed veffels : all
the writers on the fubje& ftate, that there are four kind. of
armed veffels, three with commiffions, and one without conmiffion, to wit-veffels of war, privateers, letters of marqcue, and
all other armed veffels ; and this vefiel muft be included in the laft
defcriptionnot being embraced by the others. 2d. With refpe6t
to the fecond effential fad, there isnot fufficient evidence to fhew,
that the defendant was knowingly concerned in the illegal outfit
of the veffel. He a&ed only as an interpreter; which, notwithftanding the generality of the word, concerned, cannot fairly be in.
cluded in the definition of an offence, that calls for proof of a ferious intention to furniih and outfit the veffel. There was no
crime in being owner of the guns at South-ftreet wharf; and the
obje& in ordering them to be put on board the Pilot-boat does
not appear. "the tranfation with Mendenhall & Co. rather
proves that the guns were not intended for this veffel, as it
wvould have been eafier, more expeditious, and fafer, in that
cafe, 'to fend them on board from Wilmington, with the waterSaks, and other articles, which were adually fent by them.
The account found in the defendant's poffeffion, relates to the
difburfements of a fator for his principal :-It is not fhewn
how it arofe ;whether before or after the articles were received;
and after a veffel illegally equipped has failed, it cannot be; an
offerlce within the adt, to-pay drafts in difcharge of the tradefmen's bills. Prefumptions unfavorable to innocencei ought
not to be encouraged in a'cafe fo highly penal.
Rawie, the Diftri& Attorney, entered into a defcription of
fhe principles and advantages of an honorable neutrality ; and
relied'upon the. good-fenfe and patriotifm of the Jury, to prevent their beiiyg feduced by a retr6fpedfive view of the popular
prejudices that had formerly prevailed, Ile then contended xfr.
That

CmcUiT CouRT, Pennfylvania fDifri.

327

That the offence had been committed ; 2d. That the defen- £795dant was knowingly concerned in committing it ; and 3 d.That
the indiement was -founded on the proper feCtion of the aa of
Congreftr.

ift. There is evidence, that the veiffel failed from the wharf
with the guns that fhe brought into port ; that four other guns
with military frores were afterwards put on board of her, and
that fhe had a crew of thirty or forty perfons. It is arming a
veffel, when arms are put on board, ihe being on her paffage ;
and it cannot be material, that thofe arms fhould be arranged

in a particular manner., As to the defign of the equipment,
there is no proof of an a&ual cruife; but the Jury will decide,
whether it was any other than that charged in the indiEment.
There is no attempt to prove that fhe had a cargo, or carried paffengers ; on the contrary, it is in evidence that (iefailed in ballaft ; and the fubdivifions of intereft in the veffol are in the nature of all ownerfhip of privateers.
2d. The defendant was knowingly concerned. As furnifhing
arms, knowing them to be defigned for an unlawful purpofe)
conftitutes the crime ; and as an interpreterwas the neceffary inftrument on the occafion ; even if the defendant had appeared in -no other chaxa&er, this would have been fufficient to
convi& him. But he was not merely an interpreter ;-.e appears to have interfered on various other occafions ; and his acount is conclufive evidence of a confidential and important agency in accomplifhing the illegal outfit of the veffel. It might
afford fome color of defence, to fay, that he only attempted to
,fend the cannon on board from South-ftreet wharf, if this account did not demonftrate that he was concerned in the equipment from the beginning. There is nothing to juftify, an.idea,
that it arofe from paying drafts, after the veffel had failed ; but
on the contrary feveral items are for money advanced; and the
charge for commifflons, &c. has relation to the very moment
of commencing the repairs. The agency proved by the account
is corroborated by the purchafe of cannon from Mendenhall &'
Co. which is evidently conne&ed with the general plan for equipping .this veffeL

only
3 d. The indilment is well laid; the 2d fe&ion is the
one to whibh the cafe is applicable. The 4 th fe&ion refers only
to the augm~,entation of the force of the veffel. which on her arrival in our ports, was, in fa&, a veffel of war, either public
or private. If, therefore, a man of war or privateer adds to
the number or fize of her guns, or makes dny equipment folely applicable to war, it is an offence againft this fe&ion. But
if a veffel,- having guns on board) and yet being neither a man

of war, nor a privateer, enters our ports, (he cannot legally, be
equipped for the purpofes of war. Without this conftrufion,
the

328

CAs~ts ruled and adjuclged in the

t795- the a6t of Congrefs would be nugatory; as-it might be evaded
%
by bringing a fingle gun in the veffel. In the prefent cafe, it appears that Les Jumeaux had been employed in the Guinea-trade;
that flhe arrived here 4ith a cargo of fugar and cotton,; and be .
ing converted from a merchant veffel, carrying a few guns for
felf defence, into a privateer aried for hoftilities, it is clearly an
oiginal outfit within the meaning of the law. Thq diftinion
is juftified by this further tonfideration, that the 3 d feffion
makes arming the' veffel, wzth intent to" employ her in hof/ilitiex,

the offence ; whereas the 4 th fe&ion refers nothing to the in-4
tent with which the force of the veflbl is augmented, as it only
contemplates the cafe of veffels originally fitted for war by the
nation to which they belong.
- PATTERSON, Jtfli'ce.- This is an indilChment againft 7obn
Etienne Guinet, for being, knowingly, -concerned in furnifhing,
fitting out, and arming Les 7umeaux, in the port and river Delaware, with intent that fhe flhould be employed in the fervice
of the French Republic, to cruife, or commit hoftilities, upon
the fubje&s of Great Britair, with whom the United States are
at peace : And it is the province of the Jury to enquire, whether the proof exhibited on the trial, has fully maintained the
charge contained in'the indi6tment.
Much has been raid upon the conftruffion of the 3 d. and 4 th
fe6tions of the a6t of Congiefsi b ut the Court is clearly of opinioa, 'that the 3 d fection was meant to include all dares of vef.
fels, armed within our ports by one of the belligerent powers,
to a& as cruifers againft another belligerent power in peace -with
the United States. Converting a fhip from her original deffina.
tion, with intent to commit hoftilities ; or in other Words, con.
verting a merchant flhip into a veffel of war, muff be deemed ai
original outfit ; for the aa would, otherwife, become nugatory
and inoperative. It is the converfion from the peaceable ufe,
to the warlike purpofe. that conftitutes the offence.
The veffiel in queftion arrived in this port, with a cargo of
icoffe6 and fugar, from the W1e-Indies ; and fo appears to
hnave been employed by her owner with a view to merchandize
and not with a view to war. The enquiry, therefore, is limitted to this confideration, whether, after hcr arrival, fhe was
fitted out, in order to cruife againft any foreign nation, being

at peace with the United States. It is true, fle left the wharf

with only four guns,.the number that fhe had brought into the

port-; but it is equally true, that. when fhe had dropped to

fome diftance, below, fhe took on board three or four guns m6re,
a number of mufkets, water-cak-s, &c. ; 'and, it is manifeft,
that other guns, we-e ready to be fent to her by the Pilot-boat.
Thefe circumftances clearly prove a converfion from the original,
cammercial defign of the vyefel, to a defign of, cruifing lagainft
the

CixCUIT COUMT, Pennfylvania Dilri&.
the enemies of France ; and, of courfe, againit a nation, at
peace with the United S4tates, fince the United States are at
peace with all the world. Nor can it be reafonably contended,
that the articles thus put on board the veffel were articles of merchandize ; for, if that had been the cafe, they would have been
mentioned in her manifeft, on clearing outof the port, whereas itis
exprefsly ftated, that the failed in ballaft. If they were not t6 be
ufed for merchandize, the inference is inevitable, that they were
to be ufed for war. No man would proclaim on the houfe top,
that he intended to -fit out a privateer : the intention muft be
colle6ted from all the circumftances of the tranfaaion, which
the Jury will inveftigate, and on which they muit decide. But
if they are of opinion, that it was intended to convet" this veffel from a merchant fhip into a cruifer, every man who was
knowingly concerned in doing fo, is guilty in the contemplation
of the law.
It will only, then, be neceffary to afcertain, how far the defendant was knowingly concerned ; for, though he were concerned, if he did not a& with a knowledge of the'real obje&,
he would be innocent. It has been alledged in his defence, that
he was merely an interpreter; and if, in fatt, he had appeared
in that chara&er alone, we ihould not have thought it a fufficient ground for convi~lion. But the Jury will colleCt fro m the
other parts of the trarifaEtion, whether this is not ufed as a mafk
to cover his efficient- agency in the equipment of tht veffel. He
carried orders from the owner to the fip carpenter; he told
the Pilot-boy at what time the guns ihould be takeri on board
his boat, to be carried to the (hip; the account found in his poffeffion ftates charges for fupplies of cannon, ball, mulkets, and
commiffions for fervices ; and the whole is conduced in a fecret and myfterious manner, und',rthe fhade of night. Would
lie have aCted this part as a mere interpreter ? If it had been
fair mercantile bufinefs, involving nothing repugnant to our
laws, would it have been fo much a Work of darknefs ? This
alone cafiqsa gloom over the tranfation, that will imprefs every juft and ingenuous mind with an idea of fraud- and delinquency.
If the defendant has been concerned in the offence, there is
no doubt that it is effte&ed as far as it was in his power to complete it. The illegal outfit of the veffcl was accom.pliflied ;
and that an additional number of cannon .was not fent to augmen her force, was nor-owing to his refpeat to the laws, but
to the vigilance of the public police.
Upon the whole, the Jury will confider the inditmerit ; and
give fich a verdi6t a. hall comport with evidence and law.
Verdiat-Guilty.
PARASS I
T

1795.
t."'.

