CGiar ruled ud adjudged in the
1190~.
R~sPI

A

cWA

wrfis MATLAC--

PPEAL from the fettlement of the defendant's accounts

by the Comptroller General. The defendant had been
appointed a commiffioner by the Executive Council, to explore
the navigable waters of the Itate ; and on account of his abfence
upon that fervice, Lem is had moved, at tht preceding term, and
now moved again, to poflpone the trial. The Attorney General obferved, that the appellant was not in durefs, and might, if
he
mnt impoflible, either of the principal or interefl, makes it like the
common cafe of a tender and reful~l of money, at er which interest
fPops, both by your laws and ours. We fe t;o, tr, m the letter of Mr.
Adams June 16, 1785, -that the Briti!h Secretary fqr foreign
affairs was fenfible, that a Britifh Patute having rendered criminal all
intercourfe bet een the debtor apd creditor, had placed the artirle of
ihtera on a different footing from the principal. And the letter
tt our Plenipotentiaries to Mr. Hartley, the Iritifh Plenipotentiary
for forming the definitive treaty, flhews that the omiffi. n tok
eprcef., interesi in the treaty was not mereIy an overrlght et the
parti s; tlat its allowance was confidered by our plenipotentlaries as
a thing not to be in{terted in the treaty ; was d-cla ed againfi by Congrefs, and that declaration commnicated to Mr. Hartley. After.
fuch an explhnat'on, the omiilion is a p-oof of acquiefcence, and an
intention not to claim it. It appears then, that tb debt and interest
oil that debt, are feparate tbinrsin evry country,- and under fel,arate
rules. •That in e-ry count-y a debt is recoveraole, while in mo',countries, inter-eftisre ufed inall cafes; in others, given or reful'ed, diminifhed, or augmented, at the-difcretion of the Judge; no where givenk
in all cafes indifcriminately, Pnd confequently no where fo incorporat."
ed with the debt as to pafs with that ex vi termini, or otherwife to be
corfidered as a determinate and vefted thir.g.
While the taking inte-est on money has thus been confidered in forne
countries as morally wrong in all cafes, in others made legally
right but in -particular cafes, the taking! proftts.fron lands or rents
in lieu of profits, has been allowed every where, and at all times,
both in morality and law. He -ce it is laid dcwn as a general rule
Wolf, S. 229* ' Si quis furdum alienumpoffidet, domini e.f quantum valet ufus fundi, et poffefforis quantuin valet ejus cultura et
cura.' But even in the c.fe of lands, reflored by a treaty, the arrears of profits or rent are never reflored, unlefs they be partirularly
'
If any one is in possession of anotr's land, so mue belongz
to the owner as the use of the land is worth, and 40 mucb to. ke
p-ssessor as his labor -wW eare are worth.,

SWR~ES CQURT OF~ Po4*XU.
If, therefore, the caufe was. put off at 79o;
this time, be hoped at leaft, a pdremptory rule for trial at the
next term would be entcred.
BY TUE CouRT :-t would wear an afpe& of hardfhip, if
the trial were to be forced on, at the very time that the plaintiff
had engaged the defendant in his firvice, and fent him to a
diftance. But let a peremptory rule for trial at the next term
be entered.

be pleafe3, attend.

RESFULICA Verfus COATES,

T

I S was an alion' on an official bond executed by the
defendant; and the real plaintiff, having regleaed to
rike a jury, the defendant's cotnfel moved for a rule for trial
by provifo; but on a fuggetion from the Attorney General,
approved

larly flipulated.t ' Si res vi pads reffituendm, reflituevdi quoque
And Grotius
1224.
funt rr .&us a cie cxic.sn s; fa's Woh
Icui pace res couceditir, ei et frutus '-oacedunwr a tmpore concessionis, NON RET-O. L. 3" C. 20. S 22. To place the right
to inteteft on money on a level with the right to profits on land,
is placing it more advantageoufly than has been hit-orto authorized; and if, as w ha,e fern, a flipulation to reffi, e lands does not
include a ilipulation ta reflore the back profits, we ma. certainly
conclude a fortiori, that the reftitution of debts does notinclade an
allowance at bach interest on them.
Tbere reafons, and oheri like thefe, have probably operated on the
different courts toproduce decifions, thai ' no interelt (hould run during the time this general and national calamity lalted.' And they feem
fufficlent, at leafR, to 'cfeuc their decifions from that flapranf denial of
right, which can alone auchorize one nation to conir forward with
complaints againft the judiciary proceedings of another.
S. SS. The fRates have been uniform in theallowance of interefl be.
fore and fince the war but not of that claimed during the war. Thus
we kno e by the cafe of Nrate's executors v. Sands in New York
and Middred v. Dorfey in Mar)land, tLat in thofe Rfates, intereft
during the war is difalowed-by the courts. By the act relating
to debts due to perfons who haje been and remained within the eneniy's power, or lines dui ing the latewar (palled May, 1784.) that
to determine the matter
h
Conne~ticut left it to their court of hancery
according to the rules of equity, or to leave it to referees.
By the cafe of Osborne %. Mifftin's executors, and Hare v. Allen, explained in the letter of Mr. Rawle, attorney of the United
States
f If tbingA are to be restoredly virtueof the peace, the profits tre afro
to be restored from the day of the ceffi -n.
o vihoinsoever a thing is conceded by the peace, to him also the

troflts are concedid,.from the. time of the conceflion,

BUT NOT BACK.

