CAsrs ruled and adjudged in the
1795.

April Term, 1795,

Prefent, PATTERSON and PETERS, JY-uice,,,
VANHORAE'S

T

Leffee verfus

DORRANCE.

HIS was a. caufe of great expeecation, involving feveral

important quellions of conffitutional law, in relation to

the territorial controverfy between the States of Pennfylvania
and ConnehTicut. After a trial, which continued for 15 days,

the prefiding Judge delivered the following charge to the Jury,

comprifing a full review of all the important fals and princi-

ples, that had occurred during the difcuffion.
PATTERSON, .7uice. Having arrived at the laft ftage of this.
long and interefting caufe, it now becomes the duty of the
Court to fum up the evidence, and to declare the law arifing
upon it. A mafs of teftimony has been brought forward in the
courfe of the trial, the far greater part of which is altogether
immaterial, and can be of no ufe in forming a decifion. The
giat points, on which the caufe turns, are of a legal nature j
they are queftions of law ; and, therefore, for the fake of the
parties, as well as for my own fake, they ought to be put in a
train for ultimate adjudication by'the Supreme Court. In the
adminiflration of jufice it is a confolatory idea, that no opinion
of a fingie judge can'be final and decifive; but that the fame
may be removed before the higheft tribunal for revifion, where,
if erroneous, it vgill be reftified. For the fake of clearnefs, l.
fhall confider,
i ft. The title of the plaintiff.
-zd. The title of the defendan..
I. T7e

ite Sf the PlaintIz.

In deducing the title, the plaintiff exhibited:
j. The charter or grant from Cb. 2. to William Penn. The
lands in queftion lie within the limits of this charter.
2. *A Deed from the Sin Nations to TfhomasandRichardPensf

To this deed a map is annexed and made part ot it, by'which
the land conveyed is accurately delineated, or laid down' This
mode of procedure is eminently juft and laudable ; it furnifles
; precedent, which, as far as pollible, ought to be obferved in

cvery
* IVov, Sth 176a,

CRmcur CoujT, Pennytvania Di)Mia.

30;

every transfer of land made by the Indiahs, as it obvioilfl tends 1.7o44
to quiet the fpirit of jealoufy, ioremove fufpicioni and prevefltl'4
impolition and fraud.
3. *A warrant to furvey for the proprietors, certain tra~ts ot
land contaihing twenty thbiifand acrcs.
4- f-Survey of the above lands. The land in tontroverfy lies
within theIndiandeed to the Pen,;x, and is covered by this furvey;
5.tLeafe from Thomas &YRichard Pennto Thomas Fah Horne,
for the term of feven years, of lot No. 38, cbntaining One hundred acres.
6. Inftru qions to lay out and fell the land.
7. §Allotment to "Thonas Van .Uorne of lot No. 20, contain.
ing I9o acres and 90 perches.
8. iiWarrant from RicbardPenn, lieutenant governor, to makd
a feparate return ot lot No. 20, to Thomas Van Horne. A leparate return was made accordingly, and marked bn the gend.i
ral furvey of A'Iarch 1771.
9- "Patent from Thomas and JohnPen to Thomas Van HorieF
for lot No. 2o. The corifidekatibn money was paid agreeaby
to contraa.
To. JfDeed from honas Van Borne to Corneflmr Fati Hrntj
leffor of the plaintiff, for 1at No. 2o.
It is in evidence, that this lot was bifilt upon, fenced, tilledj
and improved by Van Borne. It is alib in evidence, that Yohi
Dorance,the defendant, is in poffeffion of, arid refldes upon the
Laid lot.
Such Is-the title uponi which the plaintiff'refts his caife. It'
is clearly deduced and legally corre& ; and, dierefote, urilefs
fufficient ippears on the part of the defendant, will entitle the
plaintiff to your verdi&. To iepel the 1laintiff's right, and td
eftabliflh his own, the defendant fets up a title.
ifl. Under Conne2icut;
2d. Under the Indians;
3 ;tnder Perylvanid.
I. Uhileti Coimeticiab
The fitke undei Conneficut is of no avaM t Becaufe the l1hnd
in controverfy is ex-territorial; it does not lie within the charter
bounds of Conneict but within the charter-bounds of Pennfyl abia. The charter of Conneticut does not cover or fpread[
over the lands in qudftion : Of courfe no title can be derived
from Conneticut; Here then the defendant fails;
I. Unde ihe Indians.
The Indiah deed, under which the defendant iblainiiy beaisi
ilate the i th of .ul! -1754- It has been obferved, that thi4

o .q

f

Qcto3xi68. f 8tlf &9 th Dec. 1768.
0 "itt
11xsth Jan. 177Z.
Fcb. & March
i774.17 7 i,
$SthIvXv.

deed

Mai4h. i76*.&
ifit
ith Jan 172

306
.

Casts ruled and adjudged Jn the

T795. deed is radically defe~tive and faulty; that fraud is apparent oi/
the face of it; and, particularly, that the fpecification or defcription of the land is uritten on a razure. Of this, -gentlemen,
you will judge, as the deed will be given to you for infpe&ion.
Permit me to obferve, that there are feveral ways, by which a
deed may. be voided or rendered of no effe&l. One of thefe is
by razure, addition, interlining, or other alteration, in any material part, if done after its execution. It is the province of the
jury to determine, whether any fuch alteration was made after
the-delivery of the deed.
Befides, this deed appears to have been executed at different
times; and not in that open, public, national mahner, in whiclh
the Indians fell and transfer their lands..
But if the deed was fairly obtained ; if it has legal exiftencej,
then what is its legal operation ?
By the charter to William Penn, the right of pre.emption attach, d, and was vefled in him, to all the lands comprehended
wiihin its limits. The Penn family had, exclufivelyr, the right
of purchafing the lands of the Indians; and, indeed, the Indians"
entered into a flipulation of that kind.
Again, this deed is invalid by the laws of Pennfyivania. The
Legiflature of Pennfylvania, by an a& pafled the 7th Feb. 1705.
declare; ,-That if any perfon prefurne to buy any land of the
natives, within the limits of this province and territories, without leave from the proprietary thereof, every fuch bargain or purchafe fhall be void and of no effeCt." (iPenn.Laws.Dal. Ed.5.)
By an aa pailed the r 4 th :&A. 1729-30, it is further declared; 4That every gift, grant, bargain, fale, written or verbal
contra&t or agrecment, and every pretended conveyance, leafe,
de mife, and every other affurance made, or that fiall hereafter
be made, with any of the Indian natives, for any lands, &c.
within the limits of this province, without the order or direfion
of the proprietary or his commiffioners, flall be null, void and
of no effeft." (i Penn.Laws. Dall.Ed.2,4 8.)
The land in controverfy being within- the limits of Penn/5Iv,1.
nia, the Conneict fettlers were, in legal eflimation, trefpaffers.
and intruders. They purchafed the land without leave. and
entered upon it without right.
They purchafed and entered upon the land without the conlent of the Legiflature of ConneRicut. True it is, that the Legiflature of Connecicut gave a fuhfequent approbation, but this
was pofterior to the deed executed by the Six Nations o Penn, at
fort 8tanwix, and the principle of relation does not retrofpea fo'
as to affe&t third perfons.
The confequence is, that the ConneJicut fettlers derive no.
tide under the Indian deed.-

CIRCUIT CouRT, Pennyf ana Diffii&.

307

III. The title which the defendantfets up under Pennfjvania.

This is the keyftone of the defendant's title, as one of his coun-

1795.

fel very properly expreffed it. It required no great fagacity to
perceive, that the defendant's hope of fuctefs was founded on
a law of Pennfylvania, commonly called "the quieting and confirming aa." This a&, and the two fubfequent ones of a fupending and a repealing nature, open an extenfive and imp.ortant field for difcuflion. In general verdicts, it frequently becomes neceffary for jurics to decide upon the law as well as the
fafs. To form a corret judgment, legal principles muff be.
taken up and applied, and when this is done in a proper manner,
it gives Rability to judicial decifions, and fecurity to civil rights;
Hence uniformity and certainty ; hence the decifi6ns of tomorrow will be like the decifions of to-day; they will run in
the fame line, becaufe they are founded on the fame principles.
To aid you, Gentlemen, in forming a verdi&, I fliall confider:
I. The conftitutiouiality of the confirming a; ; or, in other
words, whether the Legiflature had authority to make that at ?
Legiflation is the exercife of fovereign authority. High and
important powers are neceffarily vefed in the Legiflative body;
whofe a&s, under fome forms of government, are irrefiutibl&
and fubje& to no controul. In England, from whence moft of
our legal principles and legiflative notions are derived, the authority of the Parliament is tranfcendant and has no bounds.
"The power and jurifdiffion of Parliament, fays Sir Edward
Coke, is fo tranfcendant and abfolute, that it cannot be confined,
either for caufes or perfons, within any bounds. And of this
high court, he adds, it may be truly faid, Si antiqzitatemfpeles,
eT
ca *etuflima.fi dignitatem, efl honoratitma;,ijurifdiaionem,the
capacilma. It has fovereign and uncontroulable authority in
making, confirming,enlarging, reftraining, abrogating., repealing,
reviving, and expounding of laws, concerning matters of all poffible denominations, ecclefiaftical or temporal, civil, military,
maritime, or criminal: This being the place where that abfolute defpotic power, which muft in all governments refide fomewhere, is entrufted by the conftitution of thefe kingdoms. All
mifchiefs and grievances, operations and remedies, that tranfcend the ordinary courfe 9 f the laws, are within the reach of
this extraordinary tribunal. It can regulate or new m6del the
fucceffion to the crown; as was done in the reign of Henry VIII.
and William III. It can alter the eftablifhed religion of the
land; as was done in a variety of inftances, in the reigns of
king Henry VIII. and his three children. It can change and
create afreth even the conftitution of the kingdom and of Parliaments themfelves; as was done by the a&t of union, and the
feveral Ilatutes for triennial and feptennial elet-tions. It can, in-

0 T,

Maort

308

CAsns ruled and adjudged in the

¥ 95. 1ort, do every thing that is not naturally impoffible; and therm
fore fome lave not'fcrupled to call its power, by a figure rathetoo bold, the omnipotenceof Parliament. True it is, that what
the Parliament doth, no authority upon earth can undo." (ri B/.
Com. 16o.)
From this pafiage it is evident, that, in England,the authority
of the Parliament runs without limits, and rifes above controul.
it is difficult to fay what the conflitution of England is; becaufe,
pot being reduced to written certainty and precifion, it lies erpirely at the mercy of the Parliament: It bends to every go.
Vernmental exigency ; it varies and is blown about by every
breeze of legiflative humour or political caprice.. Some of the
judges in .4rgland'havehad the boldnefs to affert, that an at
"ofParliament, made againft natural equity, is void; but this
opinion contravehes the general pofition, that the validity of an
uiof Parliament cannot be drawn into queftion by the judicial
tdepartment : It cannot be difputed, and mruft be obeyed. The
power of-Parliament is abfolutc and tranfcendait; it is omni-potent inthe fcale of political exiften-ce.. Befides, in England
There is' no written conftitution, no fundamental law, nothing
Vifible, nothing real, nothing certain, by which a fEiatute can
be tefted. In America the cafe is widely different : Every State
in the Union has its conftlitution reduced to written exaditude
pnd precifion.
What is a Conflitution ? It is the form of government, deli.
zieated by the mighty hand of the'people, in which certain firft
principles of fundamental laws are eftablifhed. The Conftitution is certain and fixed ; it contains the permanent will of the
people, and is the fupreme law of the land; it is paramount to
the power of the Legiflature, and can be revoked or altered only by the authority that made it. The life-giving principle and
1he death-doing ftroke muft proceed from the, fame hand.
'What are Legiflatures ? Creatures of the Conftitution ; they
owe their exiftence to the Con1tN;1ion : they derive their pow*ers from the Conftitution: It is' their commiffion; and, therefore, al their afts muft be conformable to it, or elfe they will be
void. The Confitution is the work or will of the People themielves, intheir original, fovereign, and unlimited capacity. Law
is the work or will of the Legiflature in their d.erivative and fu'ordinate capacity. The one isthe work of the Creator, and
the other of the Creature. -'The Coniftitution fixes limits to the
.excrcife of legiflative authority, and p'refcribes the orbit within
which itmuff move. In fhort, gntlemen, the Conflitution iq
The fun of the politicalo tyftem, around which all Legiflative,
• xecptive ;rnd Judicial bodizb muft revolve. Whatever may be
the cafe in other countries, yet in this there can be no doubt,
.liat every a& of the Leviflature, repugnant to the Confti'utionv
ts .bfolutely void.-

CIRcuIT COURTr,Penfyan;a Dit ri&s
In the fecond article of the lieclaration of Rights, which was 1795.
made part of the late Conftitution of Pennfylvania,it is declared:%SV
it That all men have a natural and unalienable right to worlhip
AlmightyGod, according to the didlates of their own confciences
and underftanding ; and that no man ought or oi right can be
compelled, to attend any religious worfhip, or ere&. or fupport
any place of worihip, or maintain any miniftry, contrary to, or
againft, his own free will and confent; nor can any man, who
acknowledges the being of a God, be juftly deprived or abridged,
of any civil right as a citizen, on account of his religious fentiraents, or peculiar mode of religious worfhip ; and that no authority can, or ought to be, vefted in, or affumed, by any power
whatever, that ihall, in any cafe, interfere with, or in any manner
controul, the right of confcience in the free exercife of religious
worfhip.'" (Dec. of Rights, Art. 2.)
In the thirty-fecond feffion of the fame Conftitution, it is ordained; " that all eleftions, whether by the people or in general
affimbly, fhall be by ballot, free and voluntary." (CoeJ?. Penn.

f

32.)

Could the Legiflature have annulled thefe articles$ refpefing
religion, the rights of confcience, and ele&ions by ballot? Surely no. As to thefe points there was no devolution of power;
the authority was purpofely withheld, and referved by the people to themfelves. If the Legiflature had paffed an a& declaTing, that, in future, there fhould be no trial by Jury, would
it have been obligatory? No: It would have been void for want
of jurifdi&ion, or conftitutional extent of power. The right of
trial by jury is a fundamental law, made facred by the Conftitution, and cannot b; legiflated away. The Conftitution of a
State is ftable and permanent, not to be worked upon by the
temper of tle times, nor to rife and fall witrtthe tide of events:
notwithftanding the competitiQn of oppofing intereftf, and the
violence of contending parties, it remains firm and immoveable,
as a mountain amidft the ftrife of ftojims, or a rock in the ocean
amidit the raging of the waves. I taka it to be a clear pofition;
'that if a legiflative at oppugns a conftitutional principle, the
former muft give way, and be reje&ed on the fcore of repugnance. I hold it to be a pofition eqially clear and found, that,,
in fuch cafe, it will be the duty of the Court to adhere to the
Conifitution, and to declare the a& null and void. ThedConifi.
tution is the bafis of'legiflative authority ; it lies at the foundation of all law, and is a rule and commiflion by whicliboth Legiflawtns and Judges are to proceed. It is an important principle, which, in the difcuffion of queftions of the prefent kind-"
ought never to be loft fight of,, that 'the Judiciary in thiscountry is not a fubordinate, but co-ordinate, branch of the govern
nient.
N{avin.

34

CAsns ruled and adjudged in the

T795.
Having made there preliminary obfervations, we Ihall proceed
%
to contemplate the quieting and confirming ad, and to bring its
validity to the teft of the Conflitution.
.In the courfe of argument, the counfel on both fides relied
upon certain parts -ofthe late Bill of Rights and Conifitution of
.Pennfylvania, which I'fmall now xead, and then refer to them
occafionally in the fequel of the charge.
(The Judge then read the ift. 8th. and i ith articles of the
Declaration of Rights; and the 9 th. and 4 6th fe6ions of the
Conftitutionof Pennfflvania. See i Vol. Dal. Edit. Penn. Laws
p 55. 6. 6o. in the 4ppendix.)
From thefe paffages it is evident i that the right of acquiring
and poffefing property, and having it proteded, .is
one of the
vatural, inherent, and unalienable rights of man. Men have
a fenfe.of property: Property is neceffary to their -fubfiftence,
and corrqfpondent to their natural wants and defires ; its fecurity was one of the objeds, that induced them to unite in fociety. No man wouldi become a member of a community, in
which he could not enjoy the fruits of his honeft labour and induftry. -The prefervation of property then is a primary obje& of
the focial compa&, and, by the late Conftitution of Pennfylvania,
was made a fundamental law. 'Every perfon ought to contribute his proportion for public purpofes and public exigencies;
but no one can be called upon to furrender or facrifice his
whole property, real and perfonal, for the good of the community, without receiving a recompence in value. This would be
laying a burden upon an individual, which ought to be fuftained
'by the fociety at large. 'The Engiyh hiftory does not furnifh an
inftance of the kind; the Parliament, with all their boafted omnipQtence, never committed fuch an outrage on private property;
and'if they had, it would have ferved only to difplay the dangerous nature of unlimited authority ; itwould have been an exercife of power and not of right. Such an ad would be a monIler in legiflation, and fhock all mankind. The legiflature, therefore, had no authority to make an adE divefting one citizen of
his freehold, and vefting it in another, without a juft compenfaion. It is incQnfiftent with the principles -ofreafon, juftice,
and moral reditude ; it is incompatible with the comfort, peace,
and hippinefs of mankind; it is contrary to the principles of focial alliance in every free government; and lafily, it is contrary both to the letter and fpirit of the Conflitution. In fhort, it
is what every one would think unreafonable and unjuft in his
own cafe. The next ftep in the line of prngreffion is, whether
the Le-iflature had authority to make.an ad, divefting one citi!en of his freehold and vcfting it in another, even with compentation. That the Lcgiflature, on certain emergencies, had authority to exercife this high power, has been urged from the
natura

CIRcurr CoUI'T, Pentifylvanla Diflri&.

311

-nature of the focial compaj-, and from the words of the Confli- 1795tution, which fays, that the Houfe of Reprefentatives hall have t
all other powers neceffary for the Legiflature of a free Rate or
commonwealth ; but they fhall have no power to add to, alter,
abo-ifh, or infringe any part of this Conflitution. The courfe
of reafoning, on the part of the defendant, may be comprized in
a few woids. The defpotic power, as it is aptly called by fome
writers, of taking private property, when Rate neceffity requires,
exifts in every government ; the exiftence of fuch power is' neceffary ; government could not fubfift without it ; and if this
be the cafe, it cannot be lodged any where with fo much fafety as with the Legiflature. The prefumption is, that they will
not call it into exercife except in urgent cafes, or cafes of the
firft neceffity. There is force in this reafoning. It is, however, difficult to form a cafe, in which the neceffity of a Rate can
be of fuch a nature, as to authorife or excufe the feizing of landed property belonging to one citizen, and giving it to another
citizen. It is immaterial to the Rate, in which of its citizens
the land is vefted ; but it is of primary importance, that, when
uiteled, it fhould be fecured, and the proprietor prote&ed in the
enjoymenf of it. The conftitution encircles, and renders it air
holy thing. We muft, gentlemen, bear conftantly in mind, that
the prefent is a cafe of landed property ; vefted by law in one
fet of citizens, attempted to be divefted, for the purpofe of
vefting the fame property in another fet of citizens. It cannot
be affimilated to the cafe of perfonal property taken or ufed ir
time of war or famine, or other extreme neceffity ; it cannot be
affimilated to the temporary poffeffion of land itfelf, on a prefling
public emergency, or the fpur of the occafion. In the latter cafe
there is no change of property, no divefiment of right ; the title
remains, and the proprietor, though out of poffeffion for a while,
is Rill proprietor and lord of the foil. The poffeffion grew out
of the occafion and ceafes with it: Then the right of neceffity
is fatisfied and at an end; it ddes not affe& the title, is tempo.
rary in its nature, and cannot exift forever. The conflitution exprefsly declares, that the tight of acquiring, poffefling, and prote&ing property is natural, inherent, and unalienable. It is a
right not ex gratia from the legiflature, but ex debito from the,
confitution. It is facred; for, it is further declared, that the legiflature hall have no power to add to, alter, abolifh, or infringe
any part of, the conflitution. The conflittition is the origin and
meafure of legiflative authority. It fays to legiflators, thus fai
ye fhall go and, no further. Not a particle of it fhould be fhaInnovation is dan-!"ni;not a pebble of it fhfbuld be removed.
gerous. One incroachment leads to another; precedent gives
birth to precedeft ; what has been done may be done again;
thus radical principles are generally broken-in upon, and the conflitution.

312

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in tid

1795- ifitution eventually deftroyed. *Where is the fecurity, whera tl
'-v-%w inviolability of property, if the legiflature, by a private a6t, affe&ing particular perfons only, can take land from one citizerii
who acquired it legally, And veft it in another? The rights of
,private propertyare regulated, prote&ed, and governed by gene-,
ral, known, and eftabliflbed laws ; and decided upon, by general,
inown, and eftablifled tribunals! laws and tribunals not made
*and created on an inflant exigency, on an urgent ettiergency, t
ferve a prefent turn, or the interett of a momnent. Their operation and influence are equal and univerfal ; they prefs alike oil
all. Hence fecurity and fafety, tranquillity and peace., One
man is not afraid of another, and no man afraid of the legiflaturem
Itis infinitely wifer and fafer to rifk fonie poffible mifchiefs, than
to veft in the legiffaure fo unneceffaf,,*rdangerout, and enormous
ipower as that wlich has beenc exercifed on the prefent occafi.
9n; a power, that, according to the full extent of the argumenti
is boundlefs and omnipotent: For, the legiflature judged of the
neceffity of the cafer, and alfo of the nature and value of the
equivalent.
a
Such a cafe at necefott, dnd judging
of to
ie ompenf-z
tion, can never occur.in any nation. Singular, indeed, and untoward muft be the ftate of things, that would induce the Le;
giflature, fuppofing they had the power, to diveft one individual
of his landed eftate merely for the purpofe of veftilng it in an oA
ther, ever .upon full indemnification ; 'unlefs that indemnifica-"
tion be afcertained in the inanner which I fiall mention here'after.
But admitting, that the Legiflatuie can take the real elate of
A. and give it to B. on making compenfation, the principle and
reafoning upon it go no further than to fhew, that the Legiflature are the fole and exclufive judges of the nieceffity of the cafe,
in which this defpotic power fhould be called into aaion. it
,cannot, on the principles of the focial alliance, or of the Conflitution, be extended beyond the point of judging upon every exifting"cafe of neceflty.',, The Legiflature declare and ena&,
that fuch are the public exigencies, or neceffities of the State,
,as to authorife them to take the land of A. and give it to B. ;
the dilates of reafon and the eternal principles of jufnice, as
well a's
the facred principles of the focial contra6, and the Con-"
ftitution, direa, and they accordingly declare and ordain, that
A. Thall receive compenfation for the land. But here the Le&
giflature muft ftop ;.they have run the full length of their authcrity, and can go no fnrther: they cannot conftitutionally determine upon- the amount of the compenfation, or value of the
land. "Public'exigencies do not require, neceffity does -not demand, that the Legiflature fhould, of themfelves, without the
participation of the proprietor, or intervention qf a jury, affefs

CIRCUIT COURT, Pernfy1ania Diftri&.

313

the value of the thing, or afcertain the amount of the compen- 1795.
fation to be paid for it. This can conftitutionally be effeEed to-e,.
only in three ways.
i. By the parties-that is, by ifipulation between the Legifla-.
ture and proprietor of the land.
2. By commi-lioners mutually ele&ed by the parties.
"3.By the intervention of a Jury.
The compenfatory part of the a& lies in the ninth feion.
"And whereas the late proprietaries, and divers other perfons
have heretofore acquired titles to parcels of the land aforefaid,
agreeably to the laws and ufages of Pennfylvania, and who will
be deprived thereof by the operation of this a&, and as juftice
requires, that compenfation be made for the lands, of which
they fihall be thus divefted; and as the State is poffeffled of other
lands, in which an equivalent may be rendered to the claimants
under Pennflvania, and as it will be neceflary, that their claims
fhould be afcertained by a proper examination: Be it therefore
ena&ed, by the authority aforefaid, That all perfons having
fuch claims to lands, which will be affected by the operation of
this a&, fhall be, and they are hereby required, by"themfelves,
guard ians, or other lawful agents, within twelve months from
the paffijng of this a&, to prefent the fame to the Board of Property, therein clearly defcribing thofe-lands, and ftating the
grounds of their claims, nnd alfo adducing the proper proofs,
not only of their titles, but of the fituations, qualities, and values of the lands fo claimed, to enable the Board to judge of
the validity of their claims, and of the quantities of vacant lands
'proper to be granted as equivalents. And for every claim, which
fihall be admitted by faid Board, as duly fupported, the equiva.
lent, by them allowed, may be taken either in the old or new
purchafe, at the option of the claimant ; and warrants, and patents, and all other a.ts of the public offices relating thereto,
Thall be performed free oi expence. The faid Board ihall alfo
allow fuch a quantity of vacant land, to be added to fueh-equivalent, as fhall, in their judgment, be equal to the expirices,
'which muft ncefl'arily be incurred in locating and furveying
th6 fame. And that the Board of Property may, in every cafe
obtain fatisfakory evidence of the quality and value of the land,
which fhall be.claiined as aforefaid, under the proprietary title,
they may require the commiffioners aforefaid, during their fitting in the County of Luzerne, to make the necelffary enquiries,
by the oaths or affirmations of lawful witneffes, to afcertain thofe
points; and it fhall be the duty of the faid coinmiffiloners to en,.
quire and report accordingly." (AF of Penn. ith March x782..

9.j feo

In this fe¢lion two things are worthy of co niideration.
R r

31 4

1. The mode or manner, in which compenfation for the I=n&
is to be afeerfained.
-2. The nature of the compenfation itfelf.
The Penni/jivaniaclaimants are dire6ed to prefent their claims
to the Board of.Property--and what is the .Board to do there-upon? Why, it is,
i. To judge of the validity of their claims.
2. To afcertain, by the aid and through the medium of cominiffioners, appointed by the Legiflature, the quality and value
of the land.
3. To judge of the quantity of va:ant land to be granted as
:an equivalent.
This- is not the conftitutional line of procedure. I have already obferved, that there are but three modes, in which mat-ters of this kind can be condu&ed confiftently with the principles and fpirit of the Conftitution, and focial alliance. The firft
of which is by the parties, that is to fay, by the Legiflature and
proprietor of the land. Of this the Brit i/b hiftory prefent3 an
illuftrious exampile in the cafe of tbe fle of an.
" The diftin& jurifdi&ion of this little fubordinate royalty
being found inconvenient for the purpofes of public juftice, and
for the revenue (it affording a commodious afylum for debtors,
outlaws, and fmugglers) authority wab. given to the treafury, by
ftatute 12. Geo. I. c. 28, to purchafe the intereft of the theni
pr"Plietors for the ufe of the Crown; which purchafe was at
length compleated in the year i765, and confirmed by ftatutes
5 Geo. III c. 26 ind 38, where.by the whole ifland and all its
dependencies, fo granted as aforefaid (except the'landed property of the Atboll family, their manerial rights and emoluments,
and the patronage of bifhopricks, and other ecclefiaftical benefices) are unalienably vefted in the Crown, and fubjeled to the
regulations of the 13ritfi excife and cuftoms." I BI. CoM. 107.
* Shame to Aimerican legiflation ! That in England, a limited
monarchy, where there is no written conffitution, where the Parliament is omnipotent, and can mould the Conftitution at pleafure, a more facred regard thould have been paid to property,
than in Americo,. furrounded as we are wvith .a blaze of political
illumination; where the Legiflatures are limited; where we have
republican, governments, and written Conflitutions, by which
the proteftion and enjoyment ol"property are.rendered invio.]able:
The cafe of the lfle of Man was a fair and honorable ftipulation ; it partook of the'fpirit and effence of a contra& ; it was
free and mutual ; and was treating with the.proprietors on equal
*terms. .ut if the bufinefs cannot be effe&ed in this way; then
tfie value of the land, intended to be.taken,.fhould be afcertain,d by commiffioners, or perfons wutually eleied by the parties,
or

1795.

W

CAsrz ruled and adjudged in the

1.UIRCUIT COURT,

Pennfylvana Diftri&.

31S

br by the intervention of the Judiciary, of which a Jury is a 179gcomponent part. Ih the firft cafe, we approximate nearly to a
,
,contrad; becaufe te will of the party, whofe property is to be
affe&ed, is in fome degree exercife&; he has a choice; his own
ad c-operates with that of the Legiflature. In the other cafe,
there is the intervention of a court of law, or, in other words,
a jury is to pafi between the public and the individual, who,
after hearing the proofs and allegations of the partles,'will, by
their verdi&, fix the value of the property, or the fum to be
paid for it. The compenfation, if not agreed upon by the parties oi their agents, muff be afcertained by a jury. The interpofition of a jury is, in fuch cafe, a conflitutional guard upon
property, and a necellary check to legiflative authority. [t is a
harrier between the individual and the legiflature, and ought ne'ver to be removed ; as long as it is preferred, the rights of pi ivate property will be ii no danger of violation, except in cafes
of abfolute neceffity, or great public utility. By the confirming
a, the value of the land taken, and the value of the land to be
paid in recompenfe, are to be afcertained by the Board of Property. And who are the pertons that conftitute this board ? Men
appointed by one of the parties, by the Ltgiflature only. The
perfon, whofe property is to be diveffed and valued, had no volition, no choice, no co-operation in the appointment; and befides, the other conflitutional guard upon, property, that of a
jury, is 'removed and done away. The Board.of Property thus
conftituted, are authorifed to decide upon the value of the land
to be taken, and upon the value of the land to be given by way
of equivalent, without the participation of the party, or the intervention of a jury.
2. The nature'of the compenfatlri.
By the a& the equivalent is to be in land. Xo juft corz..
pinlaton can be made e 'ept in money. Money is a common
flandard, by comparifon wihi which the value of any thing may
be afcertained, It is not only a fign hich reprefents the refpc&ive values of commodities, but is an univerfal medium)
eafily portable, liable to little variation, and readily exchanged.
for any kind of property. -Compenfation is a recompence in
valuv, a quid pro quo, and muff be in money. True.it is, that
land or any thing elrfe may be a compenfation, but then it muft
be at the eledion of the party ; it cannot be f6rced upon him.
His confent will legalife.the aa, and make it valid ; nothing
fhort of it will have the eftch
It is obvious, that if ajury pafs
ubqn the fub e, or value of the property, their verdi&t muit
be. in money.
To lo-le this part of the difeourfe : It is contended that the
Legifature muft judge of the neceflity of interpofing th'eir defpotic authority ; it ia right of necefity upon which no other
Rr 2
power

3 fd

CASES ruled, and adjudged in

tie

1795. power in government can decide : That no civil infltution Is
Sperfe& ; and that cafes will occur, in which private property
muft yield to urgent calls of public utility or general danger.
Be it fo. But then it muft be upon complete indemnification to
the individual. Agreed : But who fhall judge of this.? Did
there alfo exift a irate neceffity, that the Legiflature, or
perfons folely appointed by them, muft admeafure the compenfation, or value of the lands feized and taken, and the
validity of the title thereto ? Did a third ftate neceffity exift, that the proprietor muft take land by way of equivalent for his land ? And did a fourth ftate neceffity exift,
that thd value of this land-equivalent muft be adjufted by the
board of property, without the confent of the'party, or the interference of a Jury ? Alas 1 how neceffity begets neceffity.
They rife upon each other and become endlefs. The proprietor ftands afar off, a folitary and unproteded member of the
community, an'd is fiript of his property, without his confent,
without a hearing, without notice, the value of that property
judged upon without his participation, or the ii tervention of a
Jury, and the equivalent therefor in lands' afcertained in the
fame way. If this be the Legiflation of a Republican Government, in which the prefervation of property is made facred by
the Conftitution, I afk, wherein it differs from the mandate of
an Afatic Prince ? Omnipotence in Legiflation is defpotifm.
According to this do&rine, we have nothing that we can call our
own,or are fure of for a moment ; we are all tenants at will, and.
hold our landed property at the mere pleafure of the Legiflature.
Wretched fituation, precaribus tenure ! And yet we boaft of
property and its fecurity, of Laws, of Courts, of Conftitutio~ns, and call ourfelves free ! In fhort, gentlemen, the con'frming a&t is void ; it never had Conilitutional exiftence ; it
is a dead letter, and of no more virtue or avail, than if it never
had been made.
II. But, admitting the confirming a& to be Conftitutional
and valid, the next ftabje& of' enquiry is, what is its operation,
or, in other wordsj what conftru&ion ought to be put upon it.
It is contended, on the part of the defendant, that on the

pafling of the ati the eftate was divefted from the Pennfylvaniaclaimants and inflantly vefted in the Conneilicut fettlers.
To decide upon this queltion, it will not be amifs to lay down

a rule or two of dxpofition, applicable to the a& under confidera"tion.

A flatute fhall never have air equitable conftruffion in order
--to overthrow or diveft an eftate.

Every ftatute, derogatory to the rights of property, or that
takes away the eftate of a citizen, ought to be conitrued ftrialy.
Let

-

CIRCUIT

COURT, PenitIvania Difiri&.

311

Let us teft this a& by the foregoing rules. The a& is entitled, 1795.
cc An a&t, for afcertaining and confirming to certain perfons, k,-vl
called Conneaicut claimants, the lands by them claimed withn
the county of Luzerne, and for other purpofes therein men-.
tioned," and was paffed the 28th of March, 1787.
The firft five feffions, being material in the difcuffion of
this part of the fubje&, run in the following words.
(Here the 7udge read the Law.)
The a&t requires,
That the Gonneaicut fettlers fhall prefer their claims to the
commiffioners.
That they fhall fupport their claims by reafonable .proof.
That the commilfioners fliall adjudicate upon or confirm the
claims.
That they fhall have the lots,. t6 which claims are fet un
and admitted, furveyed ; that they fhall make return of their
furveys and their book of entries to the Supreme Executive
Council,' who fhall caufe patents to be iffued for their con'firmation, and each patent fhall comprehend all the parcels
of land, which are to be confirmed to the fame claimant, to
whom, by the return of the commiffioners, the fame fhail be
found to belong.
The mere offering or prefenting of the claim is not fufficient.
It-muft be fupported by reafornable proof, and afcertained, and
effablifhed by the Commiffioners. Thefe ats muil be performed before the etate paffes out of the Pentfytvania claimants,
and is vefed iti the Conne&icut fettlers. They are antecedent
a's, and in nature of a condition precedent.: Now conditions
precedent are fuch a' mufl happen or be performed before the
eftate can veil or be 'enlarged ; they admit of no.latitude ; they
muff be .ftriffly, literally, and punftually performed. It is a
known maxim, that where the ettate is to arife upon a condition precedent, it cannot veil till that condition is performed;
and this has been fo ftrongly adhered to, that 'ven where the
condition has become impoffible, no, eftate or intereft grew
thereupon. Where a condition copulative precedes an eltate,
the whole muft be performed before the eftate can arife ; or
%here an a&t is previous to any eltate, and that a&t confifts of
feveral particulars, every particular muf be performed before
the eftate can veft or take effeit. Co. Lit. 2o6,218. 1 -tk. 3 74"
376. Com. Rep. 732.
The eftate of the Pennfylvania claimants was not diverted on
Ate palling of the aft; it was not diveted on prefenting the
claim on the part of the ConneRicut fettlers. Other a~cs were
previoufly neceffary, and, in particular, the commiflioziers mufl
pafs upon and confirm the claimbefore the eftate is diverted from
the one party and veietd in the other, Thefe things precede,
and

CAsn ruled and adjudged in tht
'795. and muf be don- liefore any eflate can veft in the defendant;but
they have not been done, and therefore the eftate remains in the
%
plaintiff. This conftruffion correfponds'with the meaning and
fpirit. the tendency and fcope, of the a& itfelf. The intention
of the Legiflature was to veft in Connec~icut claimants of a particulai defcription a perfe6t eflate to certain lands in the County of Luzerne; bnt then it was upon condition; it was to ope
rate upon, fecure, and fan&ify, fuch claims.only as fhould be
admitted and afcertained, approved and eftablifled, by theCommiffioners. This is further evident from the powers and functions of the commiffioners, who were to enquire, examine, hear
proofs, &c. refpeffing the claims; and for what purpofe ?
Why, that they might -admit and approve of fuch as were fup.
ported by fatisfa&ory evidence, and: make return thereof to the
Executive Council, who fliould thereupon caufe patents to be
iffued for their confirmation. Until the commiffioners had decided in favor of a claim, it remained Inflatu quo; the at did
not cover and prote& it. Further, if the a&t will admit of
two conftru&ions, that one certainly ought to be adopted, which
is in favor of the legal owner, and wbich will not diveft his
citate, till the terms fpecified in-the aja fhall have been fully
complied with. When the Legiflature undertake to give away
what is not their own, when they attempt to take the property of one man, which he fairly acquired, and the general,
law of the land proteas, in order to transfer it to another, even
upon complete indemnification, it will naturally be confidered
as an-extraordinary a& of legiflation, which ought to be viewed
with jealous eyes, examined with critical exa~fnefs, and fcrutinized with all the feverity of legal expofition. An iCt of this
fort deferves no favor; to conftiue it liberally would be finning
againrit the rights of private property.
Befides, it was the manifeft intention of the makers of the
a&, that a juft cornpenfation fhould be made in land, to the
Pennfylvania claimants ; upon this principle the a& proceeds;
*and therefore, if it appear, that fuch compenfation cannot be
wade, or that it is very dubious, whether it can be effeited, the
Coutt ought not to give fuch a conftruffion, as will deprive the
owner of his eftate, with little or no proflpe& of being recompehfed in value. If either party ought to be driven to the ne-,
cefflty'of controverting the queftion with the ftate of Pernnfylf
vania, it ought to be the C.nneicut f:ttlers, who have no legal
title to the land, and not the Penw,3'Alania claimants, in whom is
vexled a good eftate at law.
Deeming the conitru-qion, which has been put upon the a&,
to be the found one, it precludes the enquiry, how far a patent
of confirmation was neceflary to fubftantiate the claim of the
defendant

CmCUIT CoDJT, Pennf/!vania Diftri&.

Y9

defendant.' fo ai to render it available in a court of, common 179g.
law.
111. The nature an& operation of the fufpending at.
This a& was paffed the 2oth of March, 1788, ,ndisas follows.
(Here the Judge read,the aB at large.)
This aU was paffed before the adoption of the Conifitution
of the United States, and therefore is not affefed by it. If the.
Legiflature had authority to make the confirming a&, they had,
alfo, auth6rity 't fufpend it. Their Conflitutional power reached to -both, or'to neither. By the a& of the 28th of MAfarch
1787, the comrmiffiooners were-to afcertain and confirm the
claims of the Conneicut fettlers, upon the doing wherecif the
eftate, if the law was Conflitutional, would become vefted" in
them. This has not been done ; the' clairu in the prefent inRtance has not been afcertained and confirmed ; and as this acl
fufpends or revokes thefe afcertaining and co..firming 'powerg,
it never can be done. Of courfe, there is an end of the bufinefs. 'The parties are placed on their 6rigind ground; they
are reftored to their priftine fituation.
IV. After the opinion delivered onrihe preceeding queftions,
it is not neceffary to determine upon the validity of the repealing
law. But it being my intention in this charge to decide upon,
all the material points in, the caufe, in order that the whole may,
at once, be carried before the Supreme Judicature for revifion,
I flhall detain you, gentlemen, a few mintutes only, while I
juft touch upon the Conftitutionality of the repealing a&t. This
aEE was pafled the ift of April 1790 : The repealingpart is as
follows.
(Here the Tudge read the ift and 2d fe&iins of the aClb
See 2 V.I. D6al. Edit. Penn. Laws. p. 786.)
This ad was mide after the adoption of the Conflitution of
it.
the United States, and the argument is, that it is contrary to
law.
fato
po/l
i. Becaufe it is an ex
2. Becaufe it is a law impairing the obligation of a contra&.
That it is an exp&/ faio law. But what is the faak ? If
ix.
thEn
making a law be a fait within the words ofthe Conftitution,
no law, when once made, can ever be repealed. - Some of the
( qnneaicut fettlers prefinted their claims to the commiffioners.
are
who received and entered them. Thefe are fa&s. But
any
veft
or
ilght
any
give
they
they fa6ts of any avail ? Did
eftate ? No-whether done or nbt done, they leave the parno
ties juft where they were. They create' no intereft, affe&t of
and
ufelefs
are
they
done
when
title, change no property,
but
no efficacy. Other ats were necefTar) to be performed;,
betQre

320

CASEs ruled and adjudged in the

z795. before the performance of them, the law was fufpended and
Sthen

repealed.

2. It impairs the obligation of a contr'i&, and is therefore
void. If the property to the lands in queftion had been vefted in the State of Pennfylvania, then the Legiflature would have
had the liberty and right of difpofing or granting them to whom
they pleafed, at any time, and in any manner. Over public property they have a difpofing and controlling power, over private
property they have none, except, perhaps, in certain cafes, and
thofe under reftrifions, and except alfo, what may arife from
the ena6tment and operation of general laws rcfpeffing proper.
ty, which will affe& themfelves as well as their conflituents.
But if the confirming a& be a contra& between the Legiflature of Pennfylvania and the Conneaicut fettlers, it muft be regulated by the rules and principles, which pervade and govern
all cafes of contrads i and if fo, it is clearly void, becaufe it
tends, in its operation and confequences, to defraud the Pennfylvania claimants, who are third perfons, of their juft rights
rights afcertained, proteafed, and fecured by the Conffitution
and known laws of the land. The plaintiff's title to the land in
queftion, is legally derived from ennfylvania , how then, on
the principles of contra&, could Pennfylvania lawfully difpofe
of it to another ? As a contra&, it could convey no right,
'without the owner's confent; without that, it was fraudulent
and void.
I fhall clofe the difcourfe with a brief recapitulation of its
leading points.
x. The confirming a&q is unconflitutional and void. It was
invalid from the beginning, had no life or operation, and is pre.
cifely in the fame ftate, as if it had not been made. If fo, the
plaintiff's title remains in full force.
2. If the confirming ac&l is conftitutional, the conditions of
it have not been performed ; and, therefore, the eftate continues in the plaintiff.
3. The confirming a& hris been fufpended-and
4- Repealed.
The refult is, that the plaintiff is, by law, entitled to recover
the preliiifes in queftionD, and of courfe to your verdi&.
Verdi& for +he PlaintifF*
Tlio
'" rrit-Of Error was brought on the Judgmrnt in this cafe, and ia
now depending in the Supreme Court.

