176

CAsEs rdled and adjudged in the

1792 -. to give it. On tbh beft confideration, therefore, that
I have
t.oy
been able to beftow on the fubje&, I find myfelf conftrained
to
give my voice, that judgment be rendered for the defendant.
MARSHALL Verf

MOTGO-r
.
y , et a.

rrHIS was an a~tion for Seamcn's wages. The Plaintiff
JL fhipped himfelf on board the defendant's hip on a
from Phiadelphiato Havanna, from thence to Cadiz, andvoyage
from
Cadiz back to Philadelphia. On the fhip's arrival at Havanna,
embargo was laid, and the fhip detained a confiderable time. an
A
plan being formed-for the redu&ion of New-Providence, a pro'
pofal was made to the American captains, and among the reft
to the defendant, to accompany the Spanj/3 troops ; for which
fervice they were to receive ten dollars and a halt per ton, per
month, and to be freed from the embargo. A gratuity was
alfo to be given to the captains. The defendant, with the reft
the American captains, agreed to go, and Providencewas takenof
;
but no provifions being to be had, the fbip failed afterwards
for'Philadelphia,and on her way was captured by the enemy. The
wages of the feamen had been paid at the Havanna, until the
fhip was ready to fail for Cadiz, and the embargo laid. The
tonnage was paid, but loft on the capture of the fhip.
Rawle contended, that it was clear, that feamen's wages muft
be paid during an embargo, and cited PJarke's lnfur. 142.
1
.Magewx. 68. 11Y,,,_et. 59 o . I Term. Re p. Z32, in noti . That the
voyage to New Providence is to be confidered as a new voyagei
as it was not the voyage contra&ed for. Tho' a voyage be
tered, wages are ftill due. Freight, it is true, is the mother alof
wages. Afp. 112. 3. but freight means nothing but the earning
of the veTel.
Lewis,& ilghman urged, that as the veffel was not entitled
to freight, no wages were due: That the voyage was not
diftin6t one, and that the lofs of the veffiel put an end to thea
claims of the feanren.
BY THE COURT :-Here is a new voyage commence.with
thae affent of the failors. The queffion is, was this a new voyage
to Philadep5hiawith leave to touch at Providence, or was it one
voyage to Providence, and another to Philadelphia. Th- SpanA
intendant agreed to pay 10. 1-2 dollars per ton, and they
received it. The interidant calls it freight: It is certainly a compenfation for the ufe of the veffel ; it is an earning by the owners, and the whole obje& of this voyage was completed
at
rew
Providence. This may Ile confidered, in the fpjirit of the
law, as a port of delivery. With the lofs, which happened
aftoiwvards, the tailors have ii concern. We confidcr this as
a

diftiint

XUPReIME CoURT Or Pennfylvania.
difina contra& for a voyage to the Ifland of Pras''denee, and 1792
that being completed, we are of opinion, that the plaintiff is entitled to his wages till that time.
Verdi& for the Plaintiff.

T

FIELD for the ufe of OXL.i, et. al. ver/ii BiDDLE.

HIS was an a~ion of debt, on a bond dated the i ft ofMat

1786; conditioned for the payment oflooo, on or be; and the defendant pleaded payment,
for the ift of Nov.
with leave to give the fpecial matter in evidence. The defence
fet up on the trial was, that it had been agreed by the parties,
that the b6nd fhould be void, unlefs Oxley & Hancock, Mierchants refiding in BEigland, tranfinitted a ratification of certain
articles of compofition within fix months: and the following
teftimony was given :x. The articles of compofition, dated the 3 d of May 1786,
ftating, that tht plaintiffs have agreed with . Collins (who was
indebted above £0ooo fierling, to Oxley & Hancock) that Collitn
Thall pay C i ooo to Oxley &'Haniock, "provided that this agreement of compofition fhall not take effef as to a fall difcharge
of Co/lin,, until Oxley & Hancock fhall have tranfiitted- their
ratification to America."
2d. A receipt by one of the plaintiffs, for the bond in fuit,
"being given in confequence of the above agreement" atho"
dated the ift of May, 86.
3 d. A lctter d.tfd 2 7 th Dec. 17 86, from Field, acknowled-.
glng a demand made upon him by Biddle, for the bond in queftlon.
The defendaint then offered TYilfiam Bell as a witnefs to prove,
that at the time the bond was executed, it was agreed that it
Ihould be void, if the ratification did not arrive in fix months.,
The teftimony was objeaed to ; but after fome argument, the
point was referved, and became the fubje& of difcuffion at the
prefent Term.
Ingerfoll, for the plaintiff-The intention of the parties muft
be conftrued by the bond and the indenture. The attempt is now
made to explain away or vary a written agrvment 5 to flhew
that to be conditional, which the writing imports to be abfolute.
Bac. B/em. 90. 4 BI. Com. 483. 9. No parol averment varying the condition of a bond, fhall be admitted as a plea. Cow.
47- 1 E. 2.47. The exceptions do not reach this cafe; they
may be reduced to three general heads. i To rebut an equity.
a To afcertain a perfon or thing which cannot be afcertained
by the writing itfelf. 3 When a claufe is left out by fraud or,
miftakc. Th cAfe in 3.Atk. 77. was of a circumfiancewhich could
ncr
YA

