&14
z1.93.
N'

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

phatically, and nothing elfe, pafs under this power , goods and
chattels paffing under the general ftatutory affignment ; and the
remedy (or a tort is not, in its nature, allignable. Doug. 1o0.
562. Co. 222. .228. 2 en. 98.
Tte plaintiff's Counfel (M., Levy) apfwered, that this was
not an a&ion brought again'f the bankrupt, or the commiflioners ; and that it ought to be fuftained upon the fame principle,
which authorifed fuch an a&ion to be brought by executors, or
adminiftrators (who are affignees of the deceafed) though it
could not be brought againfl them. Thus, likewife, though a
chofe in affion isnot affignable at law,it goes to executors. Cowp.
373. -2 B1. C. 389. 48"5. The ftatutes of bankruptcy were
framed to ameliorate the condition of creditors; and, it is obvious, that every right and intereft of the bankrupt, even a
rmerepoffibility, is transferred.' 3 P - T'm"n. 132. Co. B. L.
iv App. 45. 6.
BY THE COURT :-It'i; plain, that the affion, in its prefent
form, cannot be fujiported. Under the a& of Affembly, nothing but debts are affigned, or affignable; and torts mufr be
cunfidered as the mere perfonal concern of the bankrupt.
Let Judgment be' entered for the defendant.
Fox's Leffee verfus PALMER, et al.N the trial of this ejec7ment, the fuhfrribing ,vitneffes
were offered to prove, that a deed, bearing date the ift
of Ari, 1784, was not, in fa&, executed until the month of
Xovemper following. It was obje&ed, that fuch proof would
contradi& the atteftation of the witneffes themfelves. 4 Burr.
-24. 2 Efp. 194.
BY THE COURT :-A fubfcribing witnefs atteffs nothing but
the fealing and delivery of the deed : The date is a matter
.which he does not atteft, and to which he feldom attends. By
the rules of the Common Law, the fubfcribing witneffes fhould
be produced by the plaintiff to prove the execution of the deed ;
pnd furely it'would be then competent to the defendant to crofsexamine them, as to the real time of the delivery. But'even if
they were called to contradia their own previous atteftation,
the exception rather applies to their credit, than to their comThe objefion over-ruled.
petency.
FITZGERAL.

I This Ejectment was tried at ork-Town, Nisi Prius, on tho
.,_41yr793 btfore Sxarrm; and Bstn&rolD, Justicrs.

2 4 tb

