CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the
X797,
ANONYMOUS.

N a caufe marked for trial by Special Jury, nind Jurprs only
appeared; and the queftion arcfe, whether the Court (who
wilhed to confider it with a view to eflablifli a precedent) could
award a tales, on the application of the Plaintiff.
Levy and Ingerfoll fuggefted, that the Supreme Court of Pennfyivania had fo conftrued the I2thfi,. of the A& of Affembly
(z 7ol. DalL Edit. p. 265) as to exercife the power of ordering
a tales in the -cafe of fpecial, as- well as of common, 'Juries,.
whenever the Plaintiff required it; and, alfo, whenever the
Defendant required it, if he had a rule for trial by provifo.
The 'fame power is exeicifed in England on general principles.
476.
&"/ Pr.
Lewis obferved, that the Supreme Court held, that the Pennfj~'pania A&,and not the Engly/h pra&ice, muft regulate the
proceedings with refpet to juries; and the cafe of a tales in
trials by fpecial Jury, though 'admiffible at common la-w, might
not have been adopted by the Legiflature, on account of the inc6iveniences, which the -praCtice tended to introduce. But
whatever may have- been the previous law, the Legiflative rule
exclufto ulterius.
muft be purfued j and bxpreo unius efl
Rawle conceived, that the 12tb fe&ion of the Judicial A& (I
Vo. Swife's Edit. p.. 6 7 )Yfettled the queftioi. In the firft part
of the fe&ion, the'provifion for impannelling Juries is general,
obvioufly including ,both fpecial and comnion Juries; and, as
there is the fame generality of expreffion in the latter part of
the tfe&ion, when provifion is made for returning a tales, it
ought alfo, by a parity of conftrufion, to be extended to loth
cafes.
rire. "1have 'no doubt of the power of the
PFTERS
Court, to brder a tales in fpecial Jury caufes. IItmight have
been done, I think, iinder the A& of Affembly ;. but unquef-.
tionably it may be done tinder the A&t of Congrefs. There
ought, however, ,to be fuch a difcretion in ufing it, as to prevent any injury to either party ; and, theref6re, a.trial flhould
not be forced on, -,ith~u a reafonable delay to bring in the
jurors that had been regularly feleaed.
The A61 of Congrefs feems to remove
IREDELL,. J*1 ftice.
every difficulty. It makes no difindion (and the Court can,
therefore, make none) between the cafe of a fpecial anad of a common Jury. If this provifion had not exiffed, the fubje& would
have occafioned much doubt in my mind-.
-1 mX;

