Sa
S

i 792.
tvJ

CAsrs ruled- and adjudged in the

contend. 2d. Whether the goods were configned for the ufe of
the confignee, or confignor. 3 d. Whether a real debt was duefrom the confignor to the confignee. Thefe being determined,
the law is clear, that a confignor can ftop the goods in tranrtu
only in two cafes, If. Where lie has received no confideration
And, 2d. Where the confignee is infolvent. If the goods were
not vefted'in the confignee, the defence, arifing from the demand.
of freight and indemnification, is not fuftained. The captain
has received his freight in Ireland,and received an indemnification from the confignee.. He might have pleaded this ; and as
he has not done fo, the matter is left open to equitable confiderations. The freight, in ftri&nefs, is due when the goods are laden and billsfigned. This is a rule founded on mercantile principlies, and the inconveniences of the oppofite do&rine. The
caufe, therefore, in the opinion of the Court, depends principally, upon this faa, whether, at the time of the attachment, the
property of the goods was vefted in the confignor, or confignee,
Verdi& for the plaintiff.

JONES

verjie$

LITTLE.

P-'HE defendant's counfel produced a certificate from a phyJ-fician, ftating that the defendant had been dangerouflyill for three weeks laft paft ; and thereupon moved to put off the
trial.
But THE COURT held this to be no good caufe for putting ofl
the trial. And,
By SHiPPEN, 7ufice. If there had been an affidavit ifating,
that there were material witneffcs, who had notr been fummoned,
in confequence of this ficknefs ; or if the plaintiff himfelf were
a witnefs, to prove books or'the like; that might have weight
with the Court; but, as it is, the trial muff proceed,
KNIGHT verfs Rr.sE.,

C

IYARLES KNIGHTf, father of the plaintiff; put out_ 41c2oo at intereft, to be divided among his four children,
at their mother's death. The. defendant was one of the truftees
named in the bond, and had received the moniey on the widow's deceafe.' The only queftion was, whether ifitereftfhould
be paid from the time he received it.
SBY. THE COURT :-Intereft is not to be paid by a mere truftee, for the money vhich he holds for the ufe of another, unlefs.

