CAsEs ruled and tdjudgd in the
1 792. in the articles which they mean. The auditors appointed under
the a& have this power ; and fhall not the Court have it alfo
The principle of Lee and Biddis was, that the Court were bound
by the words "i ' current lawful money" and the pofitive words
of the a&i of Affernbly. The proof is neceffary to effe& the
intention of the parties, and to prevent an undue and fraudulent
proves, that, on prinadvantage. 'The cafe in Davis. Rep.
ciple, this money ought to be paid in fuch coin as is current at
the time it is payable; and the a& of Affembly ought to be confirued in confiftency with this principle.
SHIPPrN, Jilice :.-In Graf verfus Whitmer, it was determined in this Court, that fuch proof might be made ; and even
after judgment by efault, in debt on bond, the caufe was fent
to auditors to afcertain the value or kind of money. I cannot
in confequence fay fuch proof ought to be reje&ed;. and this
very point has been fettled in that of THufl ve~fus Kirkbride.
BY THE COURT :-Let the evidence be heard, and the point
referved for the defendant, if he fhall think it proper to move
for a new trial.
The verdi& being for plaintiff, a motion for a new trial was
accordingly made, and argued by Ingerfoll, at the fame time with
the cafe of Fieldand Biddle: (Ant. p. 17r) But the counfel for
the plainitiff fubmitted the point without argument. And
1r "THE Counr :--The rule muft be difchairged.
HENDERSON

serfus

CLARXSOVi

ASE-for money had and received. Plea, non qlnpfit.
The aaion was brought to recover a fum of money, which
e plaintiff claimed as agent for forty-three feamen, to whom
it had been decreed in the Court of Admiralty, as their fhare of
certain prizes taken by the privateer .- olker. A writ had been
iffued from the Court of Admiralty, direcled to the defendant,
then the Marfhal of that Court, commanding him to deliver
the money to the plaintiff. The defendant made return, that the
property in his hands confifis of certain articles fpecified, which
he has ready, &c. Afterwards the articles were fold.
The defendafit's eounfel moved for a non-fifit, on two grounds.
ift. That the aiaion was not maintainable, in the name of the
agent. 2d. That it is not of Common Law cognizance, b.eing
a queffion of prize, and to enforce the decree of the Admiralty.
They contended that his appointment under the a&a of Affemhily, .did not give him any power to fue in his own name : The
very term agent implies that'he has a mere authority. The aa
is filent on the fubje6 of fuits, and leaves him to the operation

SUPREME CouRT OF Pennhkanra.

of Common Law principles. He has no right or intereft veft- 1792.
ed in him, and the money was not received to his nfe. A fac- t-ki
tor may fue in his own name, for he makes the contra6 or hza
a fpecial property.
On the fetond point they cited i Dali. Rep. 2 r8. 3 Term, Rep.
323. 344. 329. 2' Strange 761. Theyurged, thatin thefirft
of thefe cafes itwas held, that the co!fuences of a prize caufe
were not cognizable in a Common Law Court, although the
queftion of prize or not, was determined and at reft. The Judges
- fay, as this is a fait to carry into execution a decree of a Court
of Admiralty, it is a thing which we have no authority
to do." This is an a~lion of the fame kind. The goods in
poffeffion of the Marfhall, were in poTfffion of the Law and of
the Court ; there is n6 contra6l exprefs or implied between
him and, the party vWho my be interefted. While the money
is in the channel which the Maritime. Law direcls, no Common
Law Courts can take cognizance of it. Will this Court interfere
between the Marflhall and the Court of Admiralty? 8 Term.
Rep. 329. Shall a fheriff, receiving money by order of this
Court, be fued for it in another ? Or, would the Court permit
an a6lion to be brought againft a Marfhall by every failor interefted in the proceeds of a prize ?
The counfel for the plaintiff urged, that the agent was an officer appointed by virtue of an a& of Affembly of the 8th of -Mar.
1780, and is known to the law. He is to receive the money, and
the unclaimed ihares are to b-paid over to th Penjfyivania Hofpital. The Marfhall is dire&ed'to fell and pay over under a penalty, by an a& of the 22 September, 1780. fe7. io. and furely
the penalty maybe waived, and the plaintif. proceed for the fum
due. Agents may fometimes fue either in their name, or that of
their principals, as fadors and confgnees. Hen. Black.p. 5 14.
*Where an agent has an intereft as well as an authority, he may
bring an alion in his own name. Befides, here is a promife in
writing, or declaration that he has the money ready. The complaint here is, that the defendant has not forty-three fuits brought
againft him inftead of one. If the failor had died, how fhould
money be recovert.d for the Pennfylvania Hofpital. The agent
give5 bond ; and the plaintiff has been fued on that which he
gave.
As to the fecond point. This has no relation to a queftion
of prize; the money has already been appropriated, and who
fhall'receive it, is the only queftion that remains. This Court
is as competent to give relief as the Admiralty; and as that
Court is now extin&, there is no remedy but a Common Law
fuit. He that pleads to ajurifdi&ion muft fiate another j urifdi6lion competent to give relief. The cafe in i Dall. Rep. :z e.
does notgo the length of this, That in3 Term. Rep. direcly inTolved a qi-tuq
n refpeting rize, In i Wil 2 x o. there is 2a inItance

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

1,792. ftaince of a fait for prize money, brought in the name of the
-

affignee again ft the agent. So in i DalL.Rep. 95. Talbotv. Purviance, though it was confequental to a prite caufe, the Court of
Appeals of PemIw vania futtained the fuit. A later cafe is iftrongly in point. Hen. Black. p. 5r5. When prize is determined,
the rights of the captors are a foundation for a fuit at law. And
the fame do&fine is maintained. ibid. 523.
BY THE CoURT :-In 1775, Congiefs refolved that all prizes
fhould be the right of the captors. "fheyhad the prerogative
of making war and peace ; and, therefore, t.he jurifdidion in cafe
of prize., This refolution vefted a legal right in the captors, to
all property taken rightfully at fea. What wai a legal capture,
was to ke determined by the Courts of Admiralty ; but, being
determined, the legal right was complete. The real meaning of
the rule, that the Courts of Common Law will not take into
confideration the incidents of a prize cauife, is, that they will not
review or draw before them the quejtion of prize, which ought to
be determined by the law of nations, and in the Court of Admiralty. Here, the property has been condemned ; the Marihall
is direcled to fell it for the benefit of the captors ; and the
plaintiff is the agent app,ointed by the Judge, igreeably. to the
14 th fe&. of the a(t. It is his duty to receive it. To him are intrufted the rights of the abfent feamen, and the contingent right
of the Pennfylvania H1ofpital. He feems to be authorifed to
bring a fuit in his-own name. Befides, the return of the Marfhall is an admiffion.of his right, and a promife to pay.A motion for a nn-fiit over-ruled ; and a verdic for the
plaintiff.
H.ALDANE et a.

verfis DUCHL's, Executors.

rPHIS was a, motion for new trial, founded on a declarationr
I
made by the Court, while the merits were before the Jury, that if the counfel for the defendants could fihew, that, on
the evidence given, the a&ion was notmaintainable, a pew trial fhould be granted. The a&ion was Indebibatus .affumZt for
money had and-received to the plaintiff's ufe ; and the evidence
to fupport it was as follows : .James Duce., the Teftator, was
feized, in right pf his wife Heler;, of a rent-charge of / 12 8 4
iffuing yearly out of a houfe and lot. in-the City of Philadelpbia;
of a houfe and. lot in tha city ; and of five acres and
three quarters of meadow land, in the neighbouring townihip
of
oayatyietfing. Mrs. Heq~r Duche, died in. Jfune,. 1779,
iffue, and Elizabeth Haldane, one of the plaintiffs, was.
her heir at law ; but the plaintiffs were not apprized of their
title to the premffes "till the year 1785. On the 2dof Mdrch1786j,

-without

