SVPRFMVOURT OP1Pennhlvania.

18.9
8
1792.

RESPUPLICA verfus AsKEW.

HE defendant was indieked for a libel -,'andat the laft N/
Prhus,.retraced his plea ahd fubmitted, prot fting his
innocence, &c; He now appe ared to receive judgmient, and
his own affidavit was offered to be read in mitigation of the fine,
But, BY THE COURT :-It his been ufual to hear the" defendant without oath; but we have never known his affidavit rexeiveai although it goes only in mitigation of the fine.
,kffidavit refufed.

J

Mopaus's Executors .verfus MCO".AUGHY.
"
AMES McCONNAUGHT mortgaged to the plaintiff's

Teftator, a certain plarta.tion in Cbe/ter County ; and then
aevifed all his eftate, confifting of many other tra&s of land,' to
his mother Jannet. 7annet afterwards died, having devifed the
the tra& in mortgage to her niece Mrs. Darlington, and the
refidue of her eftate to her Executors. The plainitiff having
Obtained judgment on the bond which accompanied the mortgage, a motion was made that the fum due fhould be levied on
the
authority of appointing to oAce.

The Clerk ofth'e Mayor's Court is

; public officer; he is concerned--in the adminiftration of juflice

and refembles in all refpects the Clerk or Prothonotary of the Su-

preme Court, and of the courtkof Common Pleas, Quarter Seflions and
Orphans courts, all of whom are appointed by the Goverfior; and what
reafon can be affigned for his being appointed otherwife, which will

not equally apply to them ? All commifflofis muft be figned by the

Governor, and run in the name of the Commonwealth.

We need

not here inveffigate the diftinction between officers that may be ap-

ppinted withour commiffiops, and thofe who are to be commiffioned;
as the Clerk of the Mayor's Court comes under the latter clafs, as
much as the clerk of any other court. Perhaps it might have been
better, if the courts of juflice had been impowered reCpectively to
appoint their own clerk.; it would have been more agreeable to the
ufaze in England and moff of the Anterican States ; but the Con.
ventton have thought otherwife.
On the whole, Iam of opinion, that the Governor has the legal
power to appoint and commiffion the Clerk of the Mayor's Court
for the city of Filadlpbia,9 id that judgmejut be giv'en for the
plailtiTf.

