SUPREMn ComtT or PenttryIvania.

'35

For the defendants, it was urged, byDallas & Du Ponceau, on
the Iafipoint, that the Confular Convention extended to all dierences andfuits between French citizdns ; that a foreign attachment
was, unqueftiorably, a fuit; and that the diffierence, or fuit, exiftor,
to the wordsrefieitherbe'adually
ing in the UnitedStates, it wa'.ot material,fhould
fpirit of the article, that bot4 the pities
dent within the United States. On the 2dpoint, it was anfwered,"
that the plaintiff ncceffarily remained a French citizen, 'till he rc-

nounced his allegiance, or had done fome at incompatible with
it ;-that he was not a citizen of the UnitedSlates; and unlefs he
was a citizen of France, he exhibited the extraordinary fpedacleof a human being who had no country!
BY- ThE CouRT. .Many important topics have been difcuffed,
in the courfe of this argument; but we do not think it neceflary
to decide on more than one of them. The fole queftion iswere both the plaintiff and the original defendants citizens of the
French Republic, at the time of infituting this fuit ? We are
clearly of opinion, from the fa&s diflofed in the affidavits
which have been read, that the plaintiff was not then, nor is he
now, a citizen of France. It is true, that he has not acquired

the rights of citizenfhip here ; nor, as it appears, in any other
countryt but, hatever may be the inconvenience of that fituation, he had an undoubted right to difient from the revolution
and, as a member of the minority, tb refufe allegiance to the
new government, and withdraw from the territory of Francq.
Every thing that could be faid or done to manifeft fuch a deter-.
znmation, has been faid and done by the plaintiff; except the
ad of becoming the fubjcd, or citizen, of another country.
.Let the rnle be difcharged.*
Gg

z

HADDENS

On the fubje&t of the Confular Jurifdi&ion, I have been favorefd

wiih a note of the following decifion, taken from the Records of the
Circuit Court for the Diftrift of -Afasachusetta, in.-Midy Term 1792.'
VILLENEUVE versus BABIOtRI..

T was agreed by the parties to fubihit this quefton io the Court-,
to ,it :-Wbethtr the Convention gaye to the Frencb Cdnful
cognizance of all differences and fuits between Frenchmen; or confined,
the fame to the defcription of cafes therein enumerated, or other cafes.
not arifing from. tranfaffions in the Mizted States P Andfurther,
that it the Court fbould be of opinion, that tli Confufar Jurifdiaion
extends geneially to all differences and fuits between Erenrcmen, that
then the plaintiff fhall, difcontioue the prefent aition, without cofis.
Tim COU4T, after hearing .the counfel, of both ides, on the .queftiox
propored, weiei-f opifiioni tbat ihe Confular JuArfdiction d6es-not extend generftly *toall differences and fuits between Frenchmen.
The plaintiffs thereupon, prayed leave to difcontinue his faid action.
'without coftsl. whisk being granted; he did difcontinue accordingly.

795.

