Css ruled and,adjudge4 fi tte
1790.

k-m..

jure the plhintif , unlefs frme materitl witnefk is abrent; whkCli
has not been pretended in the prefent cafe; The rale for a fpe.
cial Court muft, therefore, be granted.

RESPUBLICA veifus GRIFIrHs.

L

EAVE having been granted; on the motion of Serjeant, to
file an information againft the defendant, one of th- Juftices of the Peace for Che/er Cotuney, it- became a queftion,
whether the information fhotxL be drawn, filed and profecu.
ted by -the Attorney General, or by the, party at whofe inflance it was awarded.
The Attorney General (Bradpftrd) objeted, that it is- not
the duty of the Attorney General to draw and file this informa.
tion. It muft. indeed, be in the name of the commonwealth,
and the profecutor may make ufe of the name ot the officer,
who profecutes for the State : But there is in England a known
and eitabhlhed diftinlion, between informations filed by -the
Attorney General, and thofe fired by him at the relation of
private perfon, in- thename of. the mafter of the crown office.
The former are always filed ex.%icio ; and the Court.will not,
upon motion of the Attorney General, give him leave to fil6 ar
information again l: any perfon. 3 Burr, i8 z2. Tley -cannot be
quafhed on motion of the profecutor. iDaugL. 227. nor is the
profecutor liable for cofts. But informatioUs, at the relatioa.
of private perfons, are in a great meafure privatd fuits. They
are moved for and conduled, not by the officers of the Crown;
but by counfel employed by the profecutor. The profecutor is,
in many cafes, liable to cofts. 3 Burr. 1270. 1305. The Court
will not grant it where the profecutor appears unworthy. Burr.
548- 869. And on a motion fat an information for a libel,
oath muff be made of thefa/?ty of the charges coritained in the
libel, a circumftance quite immaterial, where. the.ptofecution is
wholly on the part of the public. The profectori therefore,
ought to be at the e xpence and employ his own counfel, in this
proceeding, in which he is really interefted. If it be the duty
of the Attorney General to file this information, it-is his duty
to profecute it alfo.
No informations (except thofequi tm) have hitlhettobeenfiled
inPennfylvania ; and it is of confequence to fettle this point. No
fees are provided .for the duty, in 'the bill of fees, And the Attorney General ought not, on this occafion, to be confidered as the
mere drawer of an information, for which he is not to be paid,
and with the future prafecution of whichke hasnbtbing-to do.
Br

SUrPREMt COURT OF Pentnfykanhtd.1

BY THE CouRT :-The objeeion is reafonable aftd iutf. But,
proforma, the Attorney General mull allow his name to be ufed
by the profecutor.

2eptember Term, 179Q.
WALTER, q 4. verfa" WAL-ACE,

et a.

r-HIS was a Scire Faciasagamft the deferdants as garnifhees
-f Wald, againft whom a Foreign Attachment had.
Deen iffued. On the trial it was ruled
Br THE COuRT :---That if a plaintiff does not prove more in
the hands of the garnifhce than he admits by his plea to the
Scirt Facias, or his anfwer upon interrogatories; the plaintifF
mzuf pay the coils. But if more is proved- then the coffs fhall
l paid'by the garnifliee.
The verdi& being for no more than the fum admitted in the
:[ifwers of the defendants, judgment was, accordingly, entered
for the plaintiffs, but without cofits.
VEmGauSOx, Captain of Militia, Verfur BARON, a Private.

O

N the return to a Certiorari,iffued to remove the record of
"the
proceedings that were had in this cafe, before Juftices
Mc Knight and odd, it appeared that the defendant, having
been tried by a Regimeiital Court Martial, for a breach of the
rules of difcipline, was fined to the value of ten days labour,
(/.x iS.) that on an application made by the plaintiff, who
a&ed as clerk'of -the company, to the Juftices, they iffued a fummons to the defendant; and that, on the return of the procefs,
they gave judgment conformably to the fentence of the Court
Martial.
)Jradford, in fupport of the judgment, read the proceedings
Of the Court Martial ; and the felion of the Militia a&t, relative
to the recovery of fines.
LeT contended, that the Juflices-had proceeded without jurifdi&ion ;' for, their authority under the aa was merely minifterial, to iffue an execution ; whereas they had vndertaken to
hold plea on the fubje t matter.
Vz
P

.

