SUPRhM.

COURT OF Pen.fifvaum

-

t29

in full force, if the circumftances of the cafe required- it : (a) t79zz
But they were clearly of opinion, thAt the defendant's anfwer t---e"
was infufficient, and thereupon decreed a divorce from bed and
board. As to Alimony, the defendant not being prepared up.
'Curiaadiifat'e vut;
that pointy

-SwEEN-Y' Leffee Vdei

To E-hA-

HE material fa&s, on the trial 6f this eje&ment, appzared
to be theft - Thd defefidant went ino Northiumberland
ounty, in the year 173 7,. and made an improvement on a traft
of land, which tra& he afterwards exchanged with his brother,
for the nile in queftioni with a view to eftablifh a permanent
fettlement f6r his family. The war, however, broke o'ut foon
afterwards ; and there being a call for foldiers; he enlifted, on
the afiurance of his friends, that they would take cake of the
prermifes for him. In the year 1775,.the leffor of the plaintiff;
likewife *ent into Northumberland County,, and obtained poffeffion of the premifes by virtue of a contra& in writing with
he defendant's brothdr) in the nature of a leafe, by which the
plaintiff coienanted to make improvements for the benefit of the
defendant. . The leafe was depofited in the binds of a'third perfon; but the plaintiff's wife, by a trick, got it into her hands and
deftx'oyed it, in order to make way for - claim to the land in'the:
plaintiff's own right. The plaintiff having "made confiderable
improvements, was driven away by the Indians, in the year
1778 ; andonthe 3 d of -May, 17851 he fobk out a watranrt
for the piemifesi the defendant's warrant being dated the pre-i
ceeding day. Upon a hearing before the board of propertythere was a decifion in favour of th¢ defendant,
The argument turned, principallys on the eonftu&iorn oi t4e
8. 9 and i ol, fe&ions csf the a& of the 21 Decembe-, 1784 (z
'VolDall.Edit; p. 23-5.) whlch give a Ire-emptive right tolthofe
perfons, and their legal reprefentatives, " who had heretofore
occupied ard cultivated fmall trats of land, &c. and by their
refdlutefland andfafering during the late war, merited that thei
fhould have the pr6-emption of their re fpetive-prantations?"
For the Plaintf it was contended, that he was the actual
fetder contemplated by the law, having remained on the
land 'till he ivas driven oftt by the Indians ; which 1brotight hiri.
precifely within the favoured defcription of fettlers mentioned
1786.
In thepreambleof the fubfeqttent
trot,
(2
ra aa, of the 3 oth Decemberi
T

(a) Vide j Ak 295. ftead versus Head.
* Tills cauif wa: tried at' Suniur.,,.isi Prius, in Octolery 17914

7.30
1791.

CAsns ruled and adjudged in the

(2 Vd. Dlal.Edit. p. 487) "Settlers who have been driven from
habitations in the courfe of the war, or have remained
therein, and during the faid time, with much fuffering and at
great rifques." The defendant could acquire no right by merely clearing an acre of land, which was, in fa&f, a violation of
the law-,- and, confequently, he had no power to reafe the premifes. The" refolute fland and fufferings," which the Legiflature intended to favor, meant a refidence and remaining upon
the plantation claimed ; defending the very fpot from the ene-.
my ; and not a general enlifiment in the army. The pre-emption was deftind for the fettlers who defended the fbil ; other
rewards, donation lands, &c. were given to thofe who became
foldiers. The plaintiff, therefore, was not in poffeffion under
the defendant; but as foon as* he got poffeflion of the leafe (and
howv this was done is of no importance in law) he difavowed
any fuch derivative occupancy, and afferted his own title.
For the, d.fendant, it was urged, that the adverfe coniftrufi-6
on put upon the a& of Affembly, was inconfiftent with jufticee
The plaintiff was, in fad, the defendant's tenant ; the poffeffion of the former was the poffeflion of the latter ; and the law
ought never to be fo interpreted as to encourage fraud. Befides, a
foldier is always confidered to be refident at his home ; he
makes " a rcfolute tand" in the fervice of his country ; and is
fairly within the meaning of the Legiflature, expreffed -in the
a& already cited. But the a& of 3 oth December, 1786, (2 Vol.
Dall. -Edit.49 7 .) illuflrates, and enforces this conftrufion, declaring in the 3 d feaion, that " by a fettlement fhall be underftood, an alual perfonal refident fettlement, with a manifeft
intentibn of making it a place of abode, and means of fupportirg a iamily, and continued from time to time, unlefs interruptcd by the enemy, or going into thr military fervice of this coun-

Stheir

try during the war."

BY rn COURt. :-This cafe involves two quefltions; the
one a queftion of fa&, and the other a iueftion of law. On
the former, it is the province of the Jury to decide ; but, in -our
opinion, it appears clearly in favour of the leffor of the plaintiff.
With refpe& to the latter, we deem it equally clear on the fame.
fide. The defendant made the firft improvement ; and he continued his poffeflion, 'till, at the call of his coutitry, he entered
into the arrAy. In doing fo, we confider his condu&, at leaft
-as meritoriou-, as the condu&. of thofe, who flood their ground,
2-1 defenfe of their own plantations. But by engaging in the
public fervi.ce he did not relinquifl his refidence; and, regarding (as we muit do) the plaintiff in the light of the defendant's
tenant, the plaintiff's, poidlhfion and improvement are, in con templation qf law, the poTfieon and improvement of the defendant.

