38S

/

CAsns ruled and adjudged in the

1r797. ef the AXiar Capiaj is a fufficient reafon to reje6 the plaintiff's
Ih rales difclharged,

H,coeK Adminifirator

verf!us

HILLEGAS.

THE

defendant had given a Promiory Note t6 the plain.,
tiff for a fpecific fum, on which, in different modes, there
had been feveral partial payments. Before any fettlement of
accounts, however, the defendant .entered- into an agreement,
that judgment fhculd be entered againfl: him by an Atiorney,
"for the amount that may he due". In purfuance of this agreement judgment wVas confeffled, generally, on the 12th of MlfarcA
796; and on the r 4 th of Mllay following, without any previous trial, writ of enquiry, or notice to the defendant, a Fi.Fa.
was iffued and levied, for the full amount of the Promiffory
Nrote.
Tbomas, thereupon, obtained a rule to fhew caufe why the
defendarit fhould not be allowed a fet-off for the amount of his
payments, and that, in the meantime, proceedings on the execution be frayed.
The rule was afterwards oppofed by Lee, the Attorney.
general, who contended, that the regular relief was by application to the equity fide of the Court, for an injun&ion ; whieh

woul4
The caufe (which was rndebitatus Assumpsit) came on for trial
b fore CHAs& and PETRS 77u1sices, at April term 1798, when, after
the opening was comi-,enced by Rawle, for the P ,intiff,
it was dif,
cvered, ttlat the plea of" non assumpit" was entered in short, and
that the Statute of Linitatioms had, ali'o,
been pleaded ; though the
jury were only fworn to try the issue, and not the issues, joined be.
tween the parties.
CUASE, _utice. The whole proceeding is to my mind unintelligible and irregular. There is only one of thepal-tifs to the contra6, .nd
only one of the defendants named inthe wr:t, belore the Court ; and
zo procefs of outLhwry has ben profecutef1 againft the others: how"
Thall we proceed to give judgment? A ain : towhat is the plea of
pon asstt:npszt to be- applied ? I it, that the appearing defendant did,
not affnmehimfelf, or that he did not jointly afl'uune with the oihcr
dfenddants? And how comes the plea of the St-atute tff
Limitations
to be added, withoit the leave of the Court . But the coupfel will
]-ave time to r.tiea upon. thefe difliculties.
For, the jury, are not
fworn, even intiis irnegrar fate of the record,
to try the ilues between the parties; an, threlore, the Court, on its o n authority,
will direct the "Jurorlaft a 'alified to be withdrawn.
A Jur~r was: accordingiy, withdrawn,ai4 the actc.a coptimued 'till

CICUIT CoURT, Pemi t
yvanla Diffria.
-would only be granted, upon the defendant's bringing the moo- 1797.
ney into Court, or giving fecurity to pay the balance.
But it was anfwered by Rawle and'Thomax, that the amount
due muff he afcertained, before any ufe could be made of the
agreement tor enter judgment. It was the exprefs ftipulation ot
the parties; and as the judgment has been improperly entered"
;t common law, it is on the fame fide of the Court that relief
fhould be fought. The Courts in England and in Pennfylvania
are in the conftant praffice of flaying the proceedings on executions, which are'ifflued either for more than is due, or before
the day of payment. See i Bac. .br. r95.
BY THE COURT. The agreement is to enter judgment fir
what nay be due. The plaintiff has no right to decide the quef-.
tion. It is evident, from the terms of the agreement, that there
was fomething to fettle; and the plaintfiT, either by arbitration,
or by a Jury, fhould have proceeded to make the fettlement,
with notice to the defendant, before he entered the Judgment
or, at leaft before he iffued the execution.
The rule made abfolute.
MAXWELL's Leflee verfus LEvy.

JECTMENT. On a rule to fhew caufe, why this eje l.ment, and many other cafes depending on the fame principle, flhould not be fRruck off the record, upon a fuggeflion that
the Court had-no jurifdiftion, it-appeared, that the leffor of the.
plaintiff was a citizen of Maryland, refident there, and that the
defendant was a citizen of Pennylvania, refident here. But as
foon as the ejetment was inflituted, a bill for "difcovery was
filed againft the leffor of the plaintiff, on the equity fide of the
Court, in which it was- alledged, "that the conveyance of the
premifes in controverry to the leffor of the plaintiff was made
by Morris, a citizen of .Pehfylvania, for no other purpofe than
to give juriffdiffion to the Circuit Court ;" -and the anfwver to the
bill admitted; "cthat the leffor of the plaintiff had given no confideration for the conveyance; that his name had been ufed by
way only of accommodation to Morris"; but it was not directly
faid, that it was for the purpofe of creating a jurifdiftion in the
Federal Court.
After argument by AL1.Levy, for the plaintiff, and by 7"
Tilghman, for the defcrdant, IREDELL,
Otffice, delivered
opinion of the Court, in which'the conveyance to the leff
the plaintiff was confidered as entirely colorable and collufive
and, therefore, incapible of laying a foundation for the jurirdifion of the Couxt;
The rule made abfolute...
AioNYamous

