CAsEs ruled and adjudged in A*.
1793.

%

THE CoURT reverfed the judgment.

Afterwards, Beijeant moved for a writ of reflitution , and
urged that it was a matter of right. -9*Fin. 589. 9 o . Refti-,
tution is of duty.; but re-reftitution is of grace.
Ingerfill replied, that reftitution in this cafe was not ex rigore
juris; and, in the cafe of forcible entries, it arifes only from an
equitable conftru6lion of the ftatutes. i Hawk. 140. feR. 64.
65. This may be confidered as a fair agreement, and though
the Court may not be able to fan&ion the form of the proceedings, they will equitably interpofe to prevent injuftice being
done. They have exercifed Chancery powers, and one of the
obje&s of Chancery is to prevent the party from availing himffelf of an unjuft advantage at law. fitford, 103.
Ser8ei,,t infifted, that although this Court adopted the principles of decifion, they did not affume the powers, of the Court
of Chancery.
BY THE COURT :-Execution is of right ; yet it may be, and
every day is, withheld on proper reafons being flewn. The defendant is in poffeffion under the agreement of tf.e plaintiff, and
it is fraudulent for any man to,attempt to overthrow his agreement in this manner. Uuder all the circumifances of the cafe,
we do not think it proper to iffue a writ of reftitution.
M€otion reftfed.

RoAcr vefus The

C

COMMONWEALTH..

ASE. Pleas non-af,/inpfit and payment. -The opinion of
the Judges was now delivered in this caufe, the fa&s and

principles involved in it, being ftated by the CHiEF JusTicE as

follows.
l fAKs

A

i

Juflie. This a&ion was tried by a Jury,,

in laft January Term, and a verdia taken -for the plaintiff, for
,C298 8 1 ; to wit, L41 8 1, for an uniform fuit of clothes,
which be claimed as a grant in 1779, from the State ; and £257
for half pay as a captain in the State-Navy, from .February the
xith, 1781, until duly the ift, 1783, together with intereft from
the Laid Iifof July ; fubjea to the opinion of the Court on.
two queftions ftated.
I ft.Whether clothing received by the plaintiff as an officer
of
the State-Navy, from the Commonwealth, in confequence of a
Rfolution of the Legiflature, paffed on the 24thofMorch, r779 ;
or in confequence of an a& of the Legiflature, paied the ift
of Marc,, 1780, is to be debited to the plaintiff, or confidered
as a gratuity.; and, if debited, at what price ?

SIUPAI AE COURT' OF Penzjlvan)a.

d. Whether the plaintiff is entitled to half-pay .from the 1793lrime of his difcharge, until the, it of July, 1783, and intereft
thereon from that day I
Thefe queftions have been argued by Meffrs. Ingerfoll, Lew.
4s, and Serjeant, for the plaintiff ; and, by M'effrs. Dallas, and
Wilhocks, for the Commonwealth ; they have been confidered
by the Court, and we fhall now deliver our opinions.
The anfwer to the firft queftion depends on the con fru&ion
of a R frlve of theGeneral Aflhmbly, paffed on the-gth qf Decem.
her, 1778, in page -52, of the Journals of Affembly, publilhed by M. Hilegasr; which is, " that all fuch matters, as may
"9 appear tothe Council to beabfolutely neceffary to. the comfort
C of the troops of this St'ate, be fold to them for oe fourth part
cc the original coft, for cafh only, &c." And of another Refilve of .Mitarch. the 13, 1779, in page 337, which is, " that to
" every officer of the faid troops, a complete fuit of regimental
" uniform be furnifhed every year by this State, to be charged
' to the officer, at ,thepekefor which the faid uniform might
cc have been purchafed at the commencement of the war, &c."
And, of an a- of Affembly, paffed March the ift, .178o, whereby
a complete fuit of uniform was directed to be given annually to
each officer gratisduring the war.
Refpe&ing this, there feems to have been a Legiflative con-..
ftrucliot. F 9 r, it appears in the Journals of the Affembly, page
552 and 555, of the 14 th and i8th of December, 1780, that
the Legiflature would pot charge the officers with the clothes,
&c. furnifhed them, at the fpecie price. From which it may
be clearly inferred, the clotheg, that had been furnirhed them,
were to be paid for in Continentalbills of credit only ; and, under
the fecond refolve before cited, the price was to be regulated
by the price at the commencement of the war.
Without the aid of this aitthority, fihould havc been of opinion, that the clothes, thus furniflied the officers, were to have
been paid for in the.Continental bills of credit, and that thi;
was- the intention of the then Affembly : Becaufe, firft, whatever might have been their private fentiments refpe&ing thefe
bills being depreciated, they deemed it inexpedient to acknowledge it in theirpublic charaer. Secondly; becaufe, Continental
money was then by law equal to fpecie, and it was penal to
make a diftin~lion between them. And, laftly, becaufe it h
manifeft, they intended to be generous to, or at leaft to relieve the known diftreflhs of, the officers of the State, both in
the army and navy. For, by the firft refolve, the Affemblvdire~led, that the officers fhould be furnifhied with the article's
neceffary for them, at a fourthpart of the then original cofts, for
cafh only ; and by the fecond, they were to be furniffied with a
complete fuit of reginientWlunifarm, at th, rice for which it

208

1793.
t

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

might have been purchafed" at the commencement of the war, intending thereby a ftirther gratification ; which at firft view may
appear paradoxical. Afterwards, by an a&l of Affembly, a
complete fuit of uniform (the particulars of which are fpecified
in the 8th fe~tion) was allowed to be given annually to each
officer gratis, during the war. Let it be aflumed, for illuftration,
that a complete fuir of finiform, at the original colt on the 5 th
of December, 1778, would amount to C240, Continental money; the officer for this was to pay a fourth part, or £60.
Tfie depreciation of the Continental money having been fince
fixed by law to have been on that day fix for one, the fpecie
price to be paid by the officer would be £o.
On the x3 th of
March, 1779, the fame fpecie price at the commencement of
the war being allowed, for a complete fuit of uniform, to wit,
LC40, the officer was to pay that fum in Continental money,
which, according to the fame fcale fixed by law, would amount
only to 3 6 8, the depreciation then being twelve for one.
As to this point, therefore, I think, if the plaintiff is to be debited at all, it can'be only for this laft fum, or in that proportiln
With refpe&t to tbefecond queftion, it appears to m tq be involved in obfcurity and doubt; but in fuch a cafe I fliall conceive it lefs injurious to err (if I do err) in favour of the individual than of the Commonwealth; becaufe the error againftthe
individual may be very diftreffing; 'vhereas if againift the Commnonwealth, it will hardly be felt; and I know I muft contribute
my proportion of "the money awarded.
It feems to be unpeceffary to cite the feveral refolves of Congreos, allowing half pay to the officers of the virmy of the United
States, or of the Affembly -of Pemy.lIlvania on the fame fubjeet,
refpe&ing the troopz of the State, as the principal ground on
which our prefent decifion muft tand is the a& of Aflhmbly, intitled, "An a& for the more effe&ual fupply and honorable re" ward.of the 1'em,]yvaaa troops, in the fervice of the United
"States ofAmnrica," paffed the il of A 'arch, 1780. Inthe I 5 th
ferqion it isenacted ; " rhat the officers, &c. of the navy of this
" ltate, who were in fervice on the I 3 th .Marb, 1779, and flall
"

continue therein till the end of the prefentwar, or till honora-

Sbily di/harmed, fhall be entitled to the allowances and benefits
" herein before granted to the military officers, &c. refpe&ive"1

cc
"
"

ly, of the Pem;jvania troops, as to half'pay and clothing ;
and to the like fupply and diltribution of the articl;-s above
enumerated, fubjecl to the fame limitations and conditions ;
the half pay of the officers of the navy to commence at the
expiration of the prefent war, cr their difcharge ." And the

refolve of rhe.Affembly, of the - 5 th of M"areh, 1784,is in thefr
words, " Refolved, that as one of the defigns in granting half
,,pay,

SuPRm

CouT op Penni/5vania.

do9

pay to the faid navy officers *as to place them. ona footing 1793
v.'
with the officers of the army, that the officers of the navy of
of
refolutions
the
under
life,
payfor
half
to
entitled
State,
this
the 24 th ofrfarch, 1779, and confirmed by a& of Aflemblyy
" paffed the ift of Marck 780, be allowed five years full pay in
" lieu thereof, to be paid at the fame time, andin the fame rnan
, ner, that the officers of the army, in, the line of this State, are
or fhall be paid, and that their accounts be liquidated and fettled by the comptroller general, and certificates givert, them."
From the foregoing it appears, that a diftin&ion has. been
knade, as to the time when the half pay fhould commence, be;.
tween the officers of the army- in the line of this State, anda
thofe of the State-NaVy'; the half pay of the former is confin .
ed to fuch of thern as fhould continue in the fervice of the
UnitedStates during the 'war, and was to commence at the conclu.
fion tf the 'wat- but that of the latter was to commence at thea
time of their" difcharge from fervice. The.plaintifF was hono
rably difcharged from fervice on the 1 3 th of Fiebruary i78ij
and was inconteftibly entitled to halP pay from that time, -unti!
the 25 th of March, 1784, W'herk he commuted his half paq
for life, for five years full pay. The fole queftiori then is,
whether this aa of comriutation has .barred the recovery of
the half pay then due to him, towit, for three years, one month,
and twelve days, as well as his future half pay ?
It has been contended for the, Commonwealth,. that his ac;.
cepting a certificate for five Years full pay, is a bar to the arrearages ; for, that by a refolve of Congrefs of the 22d of Mfarch,
1783, adopted bt the Affembly, on the 21d of Septcnber
1783, it is direted, " that, with tefpe& to retiringofficers;
-entitled to half pay for life, the commutation, if accepted by
cc themi fhali be in lieit of -'hate'de" may be .ow due I. thern,Jince
" the time of their retiring from fervice." On this the whole
4c
kc
cc
cc

difficulty refpeEting the plaintiff's claim teffs..

In anfwer, it has beein afferted (and acceded to) that the
plaintiff, at 'the time he redeived his certificate from the
Comptroller General, as well as the other Navy-Officers, gavd
him notice, that they meant not thereby to rclinquifh the arrears
,of half pay then due to them refpe&ively; and it was farther
contended, that the laft mentioned Refolves did not relate to the
officers of the State-Navy of Pennfyloania,but to the officers of
the army, in the ferice of the UnitedStatex only.
It appears to me, that the claufe in the Refolve o? the .ad of
September, 1783, relates to, retirihg officers of the army, and that
the navy of the State of Pehnfylvanid was not at all then in the
contemplation of the Coigrefs, or Affemby, •Beidces, none of
the officers of the State Navy had retiied ; but-the plainfiff and
four or five others had been honorably di4-har~edfrom the fer-

21o

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

1793- vice by the Supreme Executive Council of Pennfylvania. Who
the retiring officers of the army were, I do not w ell know ; perhaps thofe, who became fupernumerary, or reduced, in confequence of the'Refolve of Congrefs of the 2r[t of Q2.ober, 178o ,
or fuch as had retired, with the confent of the Commander in
Chief, after notice of the provifionary articles of peace, of the
3 oth of November, 1782. And it is at leaft doubtful, whether the
half pay of thefe officers was to commence before the conclufion of the war; for, thofe who continued to undergo the fatigues and hardfhips of a camp, and to endanger their lives in
battle, until the termination of the war, feemed to have a
greater claim on their country, tharl.thofe who retiredfrom the
fervice ; and of: this opinion was the Congrefs, which appears
in their Refolve on General Maxwell's cafe, on the 8th of .4ugtj#, 1780. The words in the Rtfolve, regarding reduced officers, of the 21itof Otober, 178o, are, that they " are to be
allowed half pay for life ;" but no menti6n is made of the
time when it was to begin, nor did the Congrefs make any provifion for the payment of it, prior to the conclufion of the war.
Be this as it may, it is certain, that no officers of the army in
the line of the State, were entitled to haff pay, by any A& or
Refolve of the .4.mbly, excepting fuch as thould ferve 'till the
end of the war, and that thofe in their navy were entitled to it
from the time of their difcharge. The navy officers could not be
placed on afootin&with the officers of the army of 'le State, if
the latter got five years full pay in lieu of what -was to become
due to them, fer half pay from the end- of the war, and the
former got ory five years full pay, in the lieu of what was to
become due to them, but alfo of feveral years of arreafs then palt,
for the payment of which they had a legiflative fecurity. Befides, the officers of the army had large bounties in lands, not
only from the State, but alfo from the United States ; but the
officers of the State Navy had none. Could this have been
the intention of the Legiflature ? I fmould think not, becaufe
of the great inequality it would create, not only between their
officers in the Land-Service, and Sea-Service, contrary to their
e.prip delaration, but alfo between the latter themfelves ; for,
by accepting the commutation, the one would lofe more than
another, in proportion to the times they were refpe&ively
difcharged. This would be fo unreafonable and unjuft, that
unlefs they had exprefsly and manifeftly thus declared, I am inclined to entertain a contrary fentiment. Their defign rather
appears to have been, to place their Navy-officers on a footing
with the moft favored of their Land-officers, becaufe they exprefsly allowed them half pay, from the time of their difcharge;
but to the others, only from the end of the war. It is a pity
this affair has bcen left fo embarraffed 5 but the belt conclufion
I

SuPRmEm

COURT oF Penn ylvania.

S211

I can form, upon the whole, is in favor of the plaintiff, on this
queftion alfo.
SHIPPEN and YEATES, 7ullices, concurred with the CHIEF
JUSTICE in the firft point ; but differed from him in the fecond point.
BRADFORD, %yllice, concurred with the CHIEF JUSTICE in
both points.
WALKER et al verfus

A

GIBBS

et al. Garnifhees.

FOREIGN attachment iffued in the Common Pleas of

Philadelphia, returnable to March Term, 1788, at the'
the plaintiffs againif Jofeph Waldo, and the defendants
of
fuit
were fummoned as garnifLhee-. Judgmcnt being entered at the
third Term, a writ of enquiry was executed, and the fum of
was,
'£3,778 9 9 was found in damages. A &cire Facias
thereupon, iffued againft the garnifhees, returnable to March
Term, 1789 ; bui the caufe was removed "nto this Court by a
writ of Certiorari, returnable to 7uly Temn, 1789; and was
tried on the 24 th of September .79 ; when the Jury found a
verdi& for the plaintiffs for

£1,204 12

4 1-2 ; and, at the in-

flance of their Counfel, added the following words it the bar,
which the Court dire&ed to be entered in the Record,-" being
cc exclufive of certain outftanding debts, and exclufive alfo,
c of a bond for £10oo

from the garnifhees to

Valdo, dated

c the 17 th of .November 1786, and payable the I 7 th of Ro" vember, 1790 ;" which bond was admitted in the garnifhees'

anfwers to interrogatories filed by the plaintiff. On this verdit, judgment was entered geri'rally; and, the time for paying the bond having elapfed; a Scire Faias, returnable to Yanuary Term, 1792, was iffued upon the judgment, requiring
the garnifhees to fh'ew caufe why execution fhould not iffue for
the amount.
The queftions arifing upon thefe fa&s were fubmitted to the
Court, upon a motion to quafh the cire Facias, which was argued by Cox, Rawle, and Dallas, for the garnifhees ; and by
Ingei~oll, Lewis and M'Kean, for the plaintiffs.
For the garn)ees it was contended, I ft, That no -verdi&,
or judgment had been given for the bond ; in refpe&t to that,
as well as to the outftanding debts, the language is exclufive;
and what is excluded cannot be included. Where there is no
verdi&, there can be no judgment ; for, the confideration of the
Court is on the finding of the Jury : A judgment mufl. be warranted by the verdi&.- A verdi& is void in all cafes where it
fines the matter in iffue, by way of argument. 5 Corn. Dig.
Tit.
D d2

1793.

