---

I

FEDERAL

--.

I

I

__,-

qJ

P

COURT of APPEALs.

Augufl Seflion 1781.

The Ship REsOLU'rloI, and IxGERSOLL, Claimant and Appellee.

et. al. Libellants
and Appellants, verfu s

MILLER

al. Libellants
and Appel.ants, verfus

MILLER et.

7

The Cargo of the Ship REsoLUTION, and O'BRIEN Claimant
and Appellant.

T

HESE were Appeals from the Admiralty Court of Prnn]j'ivania, where the Ship had been acquitted and the
Cargo condemned.
After argument by Wilcox, Lewis and Sergeant, for the Appellants, and A'forris and Wiifon for the Appellees, the opinion
and judgment of the Court (comprifing a flatement of all the
fa&s and documents material to the cafe) were delivered by
CYRus GR nirN,,the prefiding Commiffioner, in the following
terms :

BY THL COURT :-We have confidered thefe Appeals, ana
are now ready to give our judgment.
It has been very truly obferved, that this Appeal is a cafe of
importance, *notonly with regard to the fubje& in conteft, but
alfo with regard to the great Queftions of Law,, which the invefligation and difcuffion of the merits neceffarily introduced 2
and being before this Court for their determination the
Judgment and Decree of this Court muff be direed by the
Refolves and Ordinances of Congrefs, and, where they are
filent, by the Laws, Ufage and Pradice of Nations.
Upon thefe grounds, the cafe hqs been confidered and argued
by the counfel on both fides; and confidered fo thoroughly and
argued fo copioufly, fully and ablk, that we have now every pofAble light of which the fubjec& admits.
A
.T

CAsEs ruled and decreed in the
The General Qefti'on is,"Whether on all the circuRnflances
- "of this cafe, the Ship or Cargo, or both, .or any part of the
" Cargo, be a'prize; and as fuch ought to be condemned and
" confifcated ?"--The Libellants. contend that both Ship and
Cargo are prize-if not the Ship, yet the Cargo is prize; if not
.the vhole of the Cargo, yet the principal part of it muft be
condemned.
Different grounds have been taken' to fupport thefe feveral
pofitio-ds-One ground is taken to affe&l both Ship and Cargo ;
other and different grounds to affea the Cargo ;,other and different grounds to affe& the principal part of it.
.-The argument direfted againft both Ship and Cargo is this:
By the Law of Nations, after a capture and occupation fobi
twenty-four hours, the Property captured is transferred to the
Captors : But the Ship and Cargo in queftion were captured
and occupied twenty-four hours-therefore the property was
transferred to the Captors-and as.the Captors were Britifh fub;
jea1s, the property was Britifh property, and therefore legally
attackcd and capt'ured by the American Privateer Ari.
There is no 'doubt, but that a capture authorized by the'
Rights of War transfers the property to the Captor ; but the
:Ojeftion is, whethJer a Capture not authorized by the fights of
'war can have that legal operation: for, the Claimant fays, "that
"the Ship was not originally Britij/h but Dutch and Neutral pro" perty, and that the Cargo alfo was not originally Brityjh but
"9Neutral Property, in confequence of Articles of Capitulation,
"cftlipulated on the conqueft of Dominica, by the arms of his
,,"moft ChrYianMqj "
All' the authorities cited on cafes of Cfipture authorized by the
rights of-war, are where the property captured was the property of
an enemy : not*an inftance has been produced where a capture,
not authorized by the rights of war, has been held to change the
properpy; but many authorities have been brought to fhew, that
no change is effe&ed by fuch capiure. To fay that a capture
which is out of tile fanfion andrrote&ion of.the rights of itar,
can neverthelefs derive a validity from the rights of war, is furely i contradition in termns. The rights of war can only take
place among enemies, and therefore' a capture can give no right,
unlefs the property captured be the property ofin tnemy. But
it is ftated, that both Ship and-Cargo, in the prefent cafe, were
originally (that is antecedently to the Briit# capture) -inthe
predicament of neutral property: No property then .'vas
transferred by the capture, and of confequence the property in queftion
was not upow'the ground it has been confidered-Britib"property. c' But, it is faid, the facd cannot be afcertained, that the
" capture in this cafe was not authorized by the rights of war!"forit depends upon the will of the fovereiqn, whether an out"9 rage

178r.

FEDERAL COURT OP APPEALS.

rage and capture, fupra altum mare, by his fubjels, of the ^
- property of fubjefts of another nation, fhall be an illegal and
" piiatical a&a, or an a& of hoftility: That the fovereign
is
cc not obliged to promulge his will on the moment he makes
' war, and that as the human will, has no phyfical exiftence,
" it cannot be afcertained but by a declaration of it by the fo" vereign himfelf, and therefore non coijilat, but that the capture
'c in the prefent cafe was authorized by the
Brit#ib crown, and
" fo a fair a& of hoftility, authorized by the rights of war."
This argument is ingenious and plaufible, but not folid. As
the ftate of nature was a ftate of peace, and not-4 ftate of war,
the natural flate of nations is i ftate of peace and fociety, and
hence it is a maxim of the law of nations, founded on every
principle of reafon, juftice and morality, that one nation ought
not to do an injury to another. As the natural ftate (that of
nations) is a ffate of peace and benevolence, nations are morally bound to preferve it. Peace and friendfhip muft always,
be prefumed to fubfift among nations;- and therefoze he who
founds a claim upon the Tights of war, muft prove that the
peace was broken by fome national hoftility, and war commenced:
but mere conje&ure, fupp6fition and poffibility, can.render no
competent evidence of the faCt. But it is faid "here was a nacc tional hoftility-viz. The capture by the Britih privateer;
" and the a&t of the fubjeet is the a& of the fovereign."
The a&t of the fubje& can never be the a& of the fovereign;
unlefs the fubje& has been commiflioned by -the fovereign to
do it: Butin this cafe, there is no evidence that the coiuniflion
of the Brit/h privateer extended to property, under the circumflances of the property captured.
But it is afked " what private or public mifchief can.be ap" prehended from confidering property under
the circhmftances
" of this cafe as prize: For, the wrong was committed
by the.
Brit#i privateer, and therefore the Brity/1 nation ischargea" ble with.it, and bound to make compenfation"'
W' are, inclined to think, that were the claimants to"apply to
the Brit/b crown for compenfation, they would be told "ethat
" altho' fatisfaffion were done, yet it would be in proportion
"f only to the wrong done by the Briti/ privateer,
which confifted only in the feizure and detention. But if compenfation.
was expe&ed for flhip and cargo, they muff look to that nation
for it, whofe courts declared a condemnation, and whofe fubje&s reaped the fruits of it."
But, 'tis 'alledged, that " the late ordinance 6f Congrefs is
exprcfs and decided, that after a qapture and occupation for
" twenty-four hours the property captured fhall be prize."
The ordinance of Congrcfs certainly fpeaks of a legaLcaptureto admit a dlfferent conftrufion-would be a vio]hnce both to the'
A 2
terms.
"

I787.

CAsS ruled and decreed in the
1781. terms and fpirit, or intention, of it.
t-ovj

Prize is generally ufed as a

technical term to exprefs a legal capture; and Congrefs having

adopted iigin framing of the ordinance, the general fenfe or acceptation of it muft determine its import and fignification. But
fuppofe the term prize merely imported a capture, without any
refererice to its legality, and that it was the fpirit and intentionIof
the.ordinance to fubje& to prize all captures, both legal and illegal, after twenty-four hours ; it does not follow that it would
affe& the prefent cafe. The municipal laws of a country cannot
change the law of nations, fo 'as to bind the fubje&s of another
nation; and ty the law of nations a neutral fubje&, whofe property has been illegally captured, may puifue and recover that
property in whatever country it is found, unlefs a competent
jyrifdidion has adjudged it prize. The municipal laws of a
country can only bind its own fubje&s.
The ordinance of Congrefs is in truth a new regulation of the
jus p1l liminii, and limits. it to a recapture within twenty-four
hours, and therefore can only relate to the fubje&s of the United States: it adopts the ordinance of France, and that ordinance
relates only to the fubje61s of France. In both cafes, with regard

to the owner, afubjH, the property captured is not paffed away
before the expiration of twenty-four hours. But put the cafe
of a capture. and the fale of it before twenty-four hours to a neutral fubje& ; the fale is certainly good ind conclufive upon the
owner; for the queftion muft be decided by the law of nations,
and by the law of nations, the property captured is transferred to

the captor as foon as i is taken.
Both the ordinances therefore of Congrefs and of France,in
our opinion, relate only to property captured froni a fubje& and
recaptured ; and not to property captured from a neutral and recaptured. It is faid, "that arguments drawn from the law of
.c nations with regard to Pirates, do not apply to the prefent
cafe, becaufe pirates have not the rights of war."
If the principal fa& was properly attended to, the prefent
cafe could not be queftioned. Whence is it that pirates have
not the rights of war ? Is it not becaufe they a& without authority and commiflion from their fovereign ? And is it not objerled and proved, that the Britiy privateer, xvith regard to the
property captured, a&ed without commiffiofi and authority from
the Briti crown ? So far from there being any diffimilarity in
the cafes, it is in fa& the very cafe in j-udgment, confidering it
on the firft ground of argument.
But, itis alledged, "that the capture by the Brti privateer
cc muft be confidered as legal: For, after a capture and occupaOction for twenty-four hours, the legality of the capture is not
- open for queflion ami examination."
This.

VEDERAL CCUXCnT olt APPEALs.
This doerine muf never be fuffered ; there is no example or 1781.
precedent for it to be found in"any of our books ; it breaks down %O.-_.j
and deftroys the diftin6ion between right arfl wrong ; it gives
a fan'lion to injutice, robbery and piracy, and it is reprobated
by the laws, ufage and practice of nations.- Lord Mansfield, in
the cafe fo often quoted, 2 Burr. 693, fays, " The queftion,
" whether the property is transferred by the capture, can only
happen between the owner and vendee, and between the
But the queftion could never
" owner and the recaptor."
happen between the owner and the recaptor, if the legality of
the capture was not examinable on every libel for condemnation
as prize. The queffion is-Prize or no Prize ? That is whether
the capture be legal or not.
The legality of a capture is open for queftion and examination, till a competent jurifdition has decided the queffion, and a
decree paffes for condemnation as prize ; then, and not before, all
furthef queftions and examinations are precluded; then, all parties, and all foreigncourts, are eftopped to fay, " thecapture is not
legal ;" and if the decree be erroneous or iniquitous, the party in.
jured muft apply for redrefs to that nation, whofe courts have
committed the error or iniquity.
," Great difficulties, it is faid, will arife, if capture and occuc pation for 24 hours 1hould not be confider d as conclufive evi"depce of property in the captor, and that the capture was legal." And it is alked "muff a regular title be deduced from
the firft proprietor -to the captor, as in cafe of an ejetment at
" the common law ?" And " muff common law Itrianefs, in
making out titles, be adopted in Admiralty courts ?"
Every libel fiates a title to the thini captured ; the title muff
mot only be ftated, but it muft alfo be proved. It is ftated in the
libel in this cafe, that the property captured wasBrityih property, and -the evidence to prove it is, " poffefion? and occupation
of it by the Briti/h privateer:'
A title thus traced is.a good one, in a court of common la*,
except in a fingle cafe: it is a good title againif all the world
except the right owner. This exception is founded on every principle of reafon and juiltice; it ought not only to be adopted in
courts of common law, but in every court, where the dillinC~ion
betweerif right and wrong is preferved, and juftice regarded.
Poffeflio and occupation ought, upon a queftion of property, to
have the fame influence in courts of admiralty, as in courts of
common law : it ought to be confidered as a good title, and conclufive upon all mankind except the right owner. Such a title is
clear of all difficulties in the proof of it ; it excludes the neceffity"
of a regular dedution of title from the firft proprietor down to
the captor ; it is difengaged from thofe entanglements, which
refult from a variety of poflible changes and piutations of the
pro-

6

CAsEs ruled aud decreed in the

1781. property,;, and it cannot be thook, but when every honeft
man
will fay it ought to be fhook ;-when the right owner appears
and proves his property. We have now done with the obfervations and reafoning, that relate to the firft ground of argument :
and are of opinion, that if the fhip and cargo were originally
neutral property, the capture and occupation for 24 hours did
not change it into Britilb property and make it prize.
But another ground has been taken to affe& the cargo : The
libellants fay, " that the cargo is the produce and growth of Dominica; that the laid cargo is the property of Britjh fubjects of
.that Ifland ; that therefore it was not neutral property, but BriItAb, and originally prize.":
To this the claimants reply, cc that after the declaration of
independence, and after the alliance of thefe States with France,
the Briti/ fland of Dominica was taken by the arms of his molt
Chriian Majedoy; that before the redufion of it, articles of
capitulation took place, by which the owners and pofieffors of
cftates in the Ifland were fecured in th poflfflion and enjoyment
of them, and indulged with carrying on trade and commerce,
-upon an equal footing with fubjetts of France; that the laid
Ifland fince the conqueft has been under the prote&ion and government of France; that before the failing of the fhip a paffport was obtained from the French Governor, requiring all commanders of .Prench armed veffels, and all commanders of SpaV,7- and A4merican armed veffels, the allies of France, not to impede or obftru&t the paffage of .faid fhip, the cargo on board be"ing property of capitulants ; that thefaid articles of capitulation
bind America as the ally of France; that therefore the cargo, although the property of Briti fubjedts, yet it is Britiy
property prote&ed from c2pture, by the articles of capitulation ;
and that it is in the predicament of neutral property, and therefore was not originally prize."
•
Upon thefe fas and allegations two -capital queffions arife:
i :E Whether

the cargo

was Brit/h property,

ed by the articles of capitulation againft French and j3rlint
tures ?

protea-

cap-.

2d Whether Aierica, as the ally of France, is bbund by the

'articles of capitulation?
%Vithregard to the firft queftion it is contended, on a variety
of grounds, that this cargo is not proteCted from capture by
the articles of capitulktion.
i f!. Becaufe the capitulation does not extend to property Ihipped and on paffage at fea.
2d. Becaufe the- owners were principall, non-refidents atthe time of capitulation, and, therefore, although owning eftates
at Domn.niAca, cannot bq confidered as capiculants.

FEDERAL COURT Or APPEALS.

1781.
3 d. Becaufe the proceeds of this cargo were to be remitted from Holland to the owners refidents in Great Britain.
4 th. Becaufe the voyage was in fa& calculated for Great
Britain and for Anvierdan in Holland, and therein was a breach
of the articles of capitulation, and a forfeiture-of its prote&ion.
5 th. Becaufe thG cargo on board was the property of Bri.
t/h fubjecls not refidents, nor owning eftates, in Doininica, and
therefpre not within the proteffion of the capitulation.
The firft, fourth, and fifth grounds, apply to the whole cargo,
and the fecond and third to the principal part of it.
Whether the articles of capitulation extend proteetion to property after fhipped and on its paffage at fea,-depends on the x3 th
article, and the general tendency and fcope of the capitulatioa
itfelf.
The main defign of the capitulants was, to obtain a perfe& fecurity for their eftates and property ; and a full exercife of all
the rights of property and ownerfhip : And one great obie&
with the French General was, to fecure to France the commerce
of the Ifland, and all its advantages, emoluments and revenues;
but it was inconfiftent with the defign and obje&, which both
had in view, to open to Friench and Briti capture the piodu~e
of the Ifland, and'property of the capitulants, as foon as a-float
at fea.
This would have injured the rights of property, difcouraged
the labour and agriculture of the Ifland, leffened its exports,
and diminiflied the 'revenues of its government.
But the thirteenth article feems decifive :.it ftipulates ;c that
" the _AMerrhants and Inhabitantsof this Iflandy included in the
C prefent capitulation, fhall enjoy all theprivileges of trade, an4
" on the fame conditions as are granted to the fubjeels of-his
cc molft Chrf/ian AMajey, throughout the .extent of his dbmicc nions."

By this article the capitulants are placed, with .regard to
their trade and commerce, on an equal footing with the fubjec&s
of France; every commercial privilege which, the fubjets o,France cnjoy is conceded to the'capitulants ; but it is certainly
one privilege which a fubje& of Franceenjoys, that his property at fea, in the line of a fair trade and commerce, fliall ndt be
cqptured as prize by French fubje&s ; confequently the cargo
in this cafe, which is the property of capitulants, cannot be
fubje&t as prize to French captures. Btit is'it aftced, cc was.it not
99 fubjea to Briti/, capture" ? The article, it is faid, ftipulates,
that the trade fhall be carried on upon the like condition with the .
Frcnch trade, and the French trade is fubjeCt to interruption by
Brit/ capture.
Had the capitulation flipulated generally, that the capitulants
lhould exercife all the rights and privileges, of trade ecrcifed by
the

CAsEs ruled and Jecrced in the
t

178y. the fubjeds of France, the cafe would have been a clear one ;
the capitulation then might have been fairly confidered as a
compa& between the French and Briti/b crowns, that a trade
fhould have been carried on by the captulants, in the extent of
the French trades, and confequently that neither crown could interrupt it by captures without a breach of faith : The difficulty
arifes upon, the provifion in the article, that the privileges of
trade fhall be confidered upon the conditions of the Frenchtrade,
which it is faid implies, " that as the French trade is expofed
to Brity/h captures, fo muft be the trade of the capitulants."
It is obfervable, that this article is propounded on the
part of the capitulants, and the conditions ftipulated muff have
been in their ideas produ&ive of fome benefit and advantage :
Was it for the benefit and advantage of the capitulants, that their
property fo captured fhould become the property of the captors,
and liable to confifcation ? Certaifily not.
But admit, that this article was propounded on the part of
the French general ; what beneficial obje& could he have in ftipulating, that this trade fhould be expofed to Britij capture ?
Was it for the intereft and advantage of the French crow , that
this frefl acceflion to its commerce fmould be harraffed and1
difcouraged by Brit./h capture ? Certainly not.
A conilruaion then fo pointedly againft the intereft of both
pa:ties, can never be the right one: The truth is, the condition
expreffed in the article refers only to the duties, impoffs and
regulations of commerce.
But if the conftru&ion was admiffible, that it was for the intcreft of the Britijh capitulants, that this trade fhould be liable to
fuch interruption by Brit#A captures, what mu ft we think of the
opinion of the eminent Lawyers of Great Britain which have
been cited ? They fay, that this trade is proteted by the capitulation againft: Briti/h captures: Deciding then againfl the contended intereft of the capitulants, do not their opinions from fuch
.a circumftance acquire a great additional force? The Britif/
Crown by its proclamation gives irconteftible evidence, that
the property of-the capitulants is not expofed to Brit/h capture ;
for it refers to the capitulation, affcrts -the proteclion it gives,
and confirms it.
With regard then to the quvIionz ," whcther the capitulatioia
" extends prote&ion to property, when fhipped from the Ifcc land and afloat at fe-. ?" W'e are of opinion thal. it dces.
But it is obje~ted, on the fecond ground of argument, that the
cargo vas principally the property of refidents in Great Britain
at the time of the capitulation, and, therefore, although owning
eftates inthe Tfland, yet not antitkled to the benefit of the capitulatiou.

FEDERAL COURT oF APP-Ats.

It will be proper in the confideration of this objefion to attend to the 9 th, r2th and 13 th articles of capittlaibn.
The 9 th article fays : " The abfent inhabitants, and.fuch as
" are in the fervice of GreatBr2tain, fhiall be maintained in the
" poffeffion and enjoyment of their ifates which fhall be ma.
, naged for them by their attornies."
The 12th article fays : "That widows and other inhabitants,
" who, through illnefs, abfence, or any other impediment, cannot
" immediately fign the capitulation, fhall have a. limited time
"

to accede to it."

And the 13 th article fays: " The inhabitants and merchants
of this Ifland included within the prefent capitulation, fhall
" enjoy all the privileges," &c.
The fa& is admitted, that the cargo is the produce and growth
of Dominiea, and that the princilial part of it belongs to BritNj/
fubjeds ; poffeffing eftates in the Ifland, but noir-re'fidents at the
time of the capitulation
It is obje&ed, " that with regard to fuch non-refidents, the
operation of the 9 th article" extends no farther than to prote&
the eftates of fuch perfons from feizure and confifeation, by the
rights of conqueft ; that the i 2th article extends" only to thofe
who have acceded to the capitulation within the time limited,
and that the 13 th article extends only to fuch inhabitants and
merchants as are included at the time of capitulation, and not to
non-refidents.
To this it is replied, c that by the i 2th article abfemees may
come in within a limited time and accede to the capitulation,
and that then they fall within the defcription. of the 13 th article, which fays, " the inhabitants and-merchants of this ifland,
c included within the capitulation, &c."
Upon thefe allegations and faas, two- queftions arife:
ift. Whether the claimants who were non-refidents and abfentees atthe time of capitulation have acceded to it .?
2d. Whether having acceded to it, they come within the defcription of the 13 th article, and aire entitled to the rights and.privileges of trade there conceded ?
We have carefully examined all the bills of lading and the depofitions annexed, and 'lind that the propeity mentioned in each
bill is proved, by the refpe&ive depofitions, to be the property of
a Brityi capitulant. Whether he perfonally, or by attorney reprefentatively, fxubfcribed the capitulation, dkes not appear; nor
do we think it material, for the maxim is a true one, qui facit
"

per alium,facitperfe.

It is proved by the depofition of Mr. Fitzgerald, that in the
general fenfe and opinion of the people of the 'Ifland, the fabfcription of an attorney for his pincipal was fuflcient, and Mr.
ff;zgerald mentions an inftance, where a principal was refuted by
B

the

1781.

1o

CAsEs ruled and dccrced in the

1781. the French Governor the bencfit of the capitulation, becaufe his

•.

attorney had negle&ed .to fubfcribe for him. He alfo proves,
that it was the uniform and uninterrupted pra&ice of the Ifland,
for principals non-refidents to fubfcribeby attorney; which would
not have been the cafe, unlefs fich mode had been agreeable to
the fpirit and intention of the capitulation.
But it is faid, " that none could a&ede to this capitulation
but fuch as-were in a capacity to ftipulate a neutrality, andthat
non-refidents, in GreatBritain, although owning eftates in Do2ninica, could not confiftently with their allegiance engage a neutrality of condu&."
It muft be admitted,that where the fupreme authority is competent to prote& the rights of fubje&s, a fubje& cannot diveft
.himfelfof the obligation of a citizen,andwantonlymnke a compa&
withthe enemy of his country,ftipulating a neutralityof condu&;
but certainlyhe may enter into fuch an agreement, when it is no
longer able to give him prote&ion. In the prefent cafe, the
Britjh Crown was not able to fecure tP the owners their eftates
in Dominica, and therefore they had a natural right to make the
beft terms they could, for the prefervation of their property ;for,t is a general maxim of the law of nations, " that although
a private compa& with-an enemy may be prejudicial to aftate in
fome degree, yet if it tends to avoid a greater evil, it fhall bind
the ftate, and orght to be conlidered as a public good,." The
owners therefore of the cargo in queftion, though non-refidents
at the time of the capitulation and out of the reach of perfonal
ijury, yet.having eftates in the ifland, in danger of conifcation
'by conqueft, had a right to avail themfelves of the terms proffered by the capitulation, and engage a neutrality of condu&,by acceding to it.
Bitt it is faid-f" that very poflibly fome of thefe non-refidents
are at this day in the.military fervice of Great Britain."
Our oitnion is, that the 9 th article, with regard to all abrentees, and fuch as are in tie fervice of Great'Britain,only ex-empted their effates from forfeiture'by the rights of conqueft.
The rights and privileges of trade are confidered only by the
13 th article. No one can bring hitmfelf within the i 3 th article,
that has not figned the capitulation, kind -every one who figns
the capitulation engages a, nettrality bfcondu&. If any one
fubfcribing the capitulation Ihould afterwards go iflto the fervice
of Great Britainand. commit aas of hoftility againft Franceand
America, he would break his engagement of neutrality, and forfeit'all the rights and privileges ot trade, and his property captured at tea would become priie.
. 'It is a rational conflru&ion to confider neutrality as the greit
bafis of the capitulation. The eftates indeed of abfentees, and
,64cli as were engaged in the fervice of Great Britin, appear to
have

FEDERAL COURT- Ol A'PPEALS.

have been fecured at all events from forfeiture, without a fti- 1781.
pulation for neutrality ; but with regard to the rights and privi- ko-v-j
ledges of trade, they can, be only exercifed by thofe who have
acceded to the capitulation and engaged a neutrality. Admitting
then that the owners of eftates in the Ifland of Dominica, and nonrefidents and claimants in the caufe, have properly acceded to the
capitulation , the mere queflion is, whether they come within
the I th article, and are entitled to the rights and privileges
of trade there conceded ? As we conceive that this article was
conceded as a liberal compenfatiou for the fiipulation of neutrality, we have no doubt but that thefe non-refidents, who owned:
eftatesin Dominica and have acceded to tbe capitulation and.
neutrality, come within the defcription of the r3th article, ,nd
are entitled to all the rights and privileges of trade, which it
provides for and~ftipulates.
The third ground of argument, on which it is contended, that
tiis cargo is not prote6ted by the capitulation againft capture,
is this: That the proceeds of the cargo were to be principally remitted to Great Britain,on theorder of the owners refidefitthere,
and therefore that this cargo was in a line of trade not within
the prote&ion of the capitulation. We have already given it
as our opinion; that the 13 th article gives the capitulants a protefted trade to every port, w%,here the trade and commerce of
Franceextends. And we have given, it as our opinion, that
with regard to tne rights and privileges of trade, there is no
difference between the inhabitants, and thofe abfentees, non-refidents, who have acceded to the capitulation and neutrality.
The only circumifance then to take this cargo out of the proteaion of the capitulation muft be the letters of advice of the
agents at Doninica, 'advifing the confignees at 4mfqerdam, to
whom the cargo belonged, and that the proceeds' of the principal part" of it were to be at the difpofal and order 6f the owners,
refidents in Great Britain. We cannot fee the force of this
circumftance in the extent contended for, if the agents rightfully exported the produce of the eftates of thofe non-refidents, in
conformity to the capitulation. The letters of advice cannot.give this commercial a& a different complexio'n; the agentscould
IiQt fhip thist property in their own right, wAith6ut taking upon:
themfelves a rifk of the voyag6 ; and the Bills of Lading necefarily allowed that the proceeds were at the difpofal of the owners.
Could agents have ated with more propriety ? Every ftcp-'
they took was the natural refult of the rights of trade conceded
by .he capitulation. But it is objeded, c that tlu-'oth article
fhews,-tbt no remittance war to be uiade, but for education and
fupport of childrenY
The article is this te The inhabitants of the Ifland fhall lave
liberty to fend their, rtildren to -.'nldIl,
to be there educated,
B2
anti

CAsrs ruled and decreed'in the
1781. and to fend them back again, and to make remittances to them
'
while in Egland."
T"his article by no means proves, that n6 remittances were to
be made o proceeds on fales in a neutral country; tho' the
children might have-had remittances in that train of intercourfe,
yet the mode --night have been thought too circuitous and dilatory. A remittance in a direa line was more eligible. Betides,
remittanccs on fals abroad could only be in money or billss but
by this article there is no limitation of the fpecies of remittance,
uno it may be in produce.
The capitulation muif receive a liberal coiftrul&ion. It was
the fabrick of a great, enlightened, General, and every part of
the ftruaure cdhibits a liberality and grandeur of fpirit, that does
honor to human nature. It is faid, that if the property of the
capitulants is thus prote&ed from capture, it is in a better fituation than French, American or Britjb property; it it precifely in
the fituation of neutral property. It was far from being the wifh
of the capitulants to have had their property placed in fuch a
predicament upon the terms it was done.

They were reduced

and obliged to fubmit to it by force of arms. But the fituation
of thofe people is mentioned ais a happy one: If to be a conquered people, and inforced to all the contingent confequences
of a conqueft, be a pleafing condition, thefe people may then
boaft of their being in an happy one.
It is faid the Britij/q crown muff be benefited by this condition
of their fubje&s.
The Bri/h crown may indeed be benefited in fome degree;
it was not meant to deprive Great Britain of every benefit; fie
draws fome befiefit from having a few remittances made from
fales abroad, to a few of her fubje a5s in England, owning eflates
in Doninica. But then to gain the advantage fhe yields up the
perfonal fervice of thofe fubje'ts, for they are bound to obfcrve
a neutrality. But has Great Britain loft nothing by the conqueft? Who poffeffes the Ifland of Dominiea? Who poflffies
all the advantages and benefits of its trade ? Who has obt'ined
its commercial revenues ?
I It is true fhe is not at the expence of the government of that
ifland. But it is. true fhe has loft, Ifland, government and revenues. When the configneos difpofed of the cargo, they became debtors for the monies received. The making of remittances in fatisfa&ion of deb.ts, although to fubje&s of a nation at
war, is no violation of the duties of a etizen. Nor will the
ufagL und pra&ice of civilized nations forbid it. Tobacco ihipped
to France, with an avowed intent to remit the .proceeds to .England for the payment of debts, woulU not be prize on -an American capture.

We come now to the fourth ground of argument, on which it
•

is

.FEDERAD COURT oF APPEALS.

is contended, that this cargo is not within the proteffion of the x781.
articles of capitulation ; that is, that the voyage was calculated '1",,-.
for Great Britain, and not for 4amjlerdam in Hollnd, and therefore in breach and out of the prote&ion of the capitulation.
This argument is grounded upon feveral circumftances and upon
evidence, that point at fame latent (,bje&, but do not fpeak decifively upon it: They prove a fecrecy and concealment, with regard
to the voyage to Dominica, and the taking a cargo there; but all
thefe circumrfances are eafily explained, without adopting the
idea that the voyage was intended for Great Britain. What i2
fuggefted in Capt. lWaterbdrh's lettef, was a mere precautionary
meafure to avoid Brit/i cfuizers, that perpetually harraffed the
Dutch trade, by capturing their veflels. In the fame letter he mentions the capture of a Holland ihip which had been carried into
St. Kitts and releafed i th." letter is dated Btujatia; and the manceuvres he mentioned xere to fecure the voyage to Dominica.
The voyage fron Dominia to Almljerdam, we have no doubt,
was planned in London, between the capitulants there, owning
eftates in Dominica, afid Daniel Hefjbuysen, agent for Brantlight
& Son. The letter addreffed to .Morffon,atDominika,wasdated at
A ny7erdam, tho' wrote in London, becaufe Brantlight& Son lived
at Amflerdam, and becaufe the cargo was to be configned to them
at _mfierdam, and it was dated the day of the date of his own
letter, which inclofed it, becaufe it was then wrote. As for the
fecrecy enjoined in Brantlight & Son's letter to Cap'ain IWaterburgh while at Eujlatia, with regard to the voyage to Dominica
and the taking a cargo there, we cannot think they had any other
motive for it than fuch as often influences merchants in the condut of a fair trade, to keep to themfelves their commercial
plans. But what force can thefe circumftances havc when oppofed by the pofitive evidence that is produced ? The Bill of
Lading and a variety of letters from the fhippers and attornies
for the owners in London, fome addrefli~d to Brantlight& Son,
2nd others to the owners, prove that the voyage was for A.xflerdam; all the fhip papers alfo prove it. But the depofitions of
WFat'rburgh and Morefon, to whom the fhip was configned, and,
by whom the fhip was loaded, are conclufive: They, upon clearing out of the fhip, fwear exprefily that Ihe was deffined for
,gnfflerdam.
We are now come to the laft ground, which has been
taken to prove the cargo not to be prote&Ced by the articles
of capitulation, which is: That the property of the cargo
on board, was the propcrty of Britij fubjecls, not refidents or
owning eftates in Dominica. But what is the evidence produced
to prove this ? It is a letter from Aor-,-n to Brantlightv& Son,
in which he mentions the alarm occalioned by the rupture between Great Britain and the States General, and the fears and,
apprelenfion

CAsEs ruled and decreed in the
1781. apprehenrons the merchants and fhippers were under,

relative
~--~'to putting 'roperty on board a Holland veffel; he afterwards
mentions the arrival of the king's proclamation, prote&ing Ho.
Jand.veffels from capture, and fays "even then no one but Mr.
6f .1endirMafon and myfelf would 'put a hogfhead on board
cc your {hip, as the king's proclamation laid fo much blame on
" your City; but we have-agreed, &c." and then fays they have
agreed to fbip, and affigns the reafons.
The fa&t does not appear, that Kender Mafon had any property
at all in Dominica, nor that he had any attorney or agent; it
appears he lived in London,'and was a correfpondent of Morefon's
Houfe in, Dominca. It appears DanielIH-fufen, as agent for
Brantlight& Son, obtained a letter from this .Kender Mafon ad-,

dreffcd to Morefon, which he enclofed to Captain Waterburgk at
-t. Euftatia, and in confequence of which Captain JVaterburgh
was ordered to Dominica. - This letter •was probably delivered
by WFaterburgh, as it is not to be found among the thip's

papers. We have no evidence of the contents of this let.
ter, but it appeais to us, to have been a letter recommending
Brantlight & Son to Aforefon's Houfe.

The plan of the voyage

being fettled in London, it was natural to obtain letters of introduffion from thence.
But .Mlorefon's letter, it is obje&ed, fpeaks exprefsly of Kender Mlafon having thipped property an board, and there is no
proof, that he is a Britih capitulant, and therefore, here was
property on board belonging to a~ritfb fubje&t, who was neither
a refident in Dominica, nor an owner of eftate there, and, confequently, it was Brif/h property not protcetedby the capitulation.
korefon'.. letter, if good evidence, to prove the fact with regard to Kender Mafon, muff be taken as good evidence to prove
evqry fa& ftated in it; for it muff be taken altogether and admitted, or rejeded in toto.
He fays then, "No one but Kender Mafon and myfelf, would
"put a hoglhead on board, &c." .Aorefn then, as well as Kender ikfafi, had property on board. Moreon alfo mentions in his
letter, that afterwards there was an agreement to fhip generally,
and aifigns the reafons. The fhippers muff be other perfons befides M34afon and Mcrefon : So that even upon the evidence of
Mor.n's letter,Kender Mlafon could have but apart of the cargo,

the quantum of which is not at all afccrtaind.
But we are inclined to think, that this letter of lorefon's, with
regard to Kender MAfrn fibipping property on board, is a rtake. Kerner Ii'afon was certainly not at Dominica, and yet the
letter conveys that idea - "A general panic had feized the merchants, they would not fhip until the arrival of the King's Proclamation, and even then .KenderMyfion and myfelf were the
only perfons who would fhip a hogflaead." Tle perfon Morefon
.ean(,

FEEERAL COURT OF APPEALS

meant to fpeak of muft have been on the fpot. He was one 1781.
whom the panic had not taken hold of; he was one who with %
Mor6ron took the refolution to fhip, notwithdanding the alarming
rupture between Great Britain and the States General; he was

one who was led to fhip from a confidence in the King's Proclamation. We have it in evidence that Captain Waterburgh had
letters of recommendation both to ilforefon and a Mfr. Alexander
Henderfon. Thefe letters were inclofed to the captain in a letter
from Brantliht C "&nr. It appears, that on the captain's application to Morfon, nothing could be done without Henderfon;
Morefotn and Henderfon were the perfons who were confultedi
and the firft who moied to provide a loading for the fhip. It
appears from the Bill 'of Lading& that Hendeifcn was a principal hipper. Thefe circumftances confidered, the fuppofition which was made by the "counfel for the claimants, is not
altogether'without foundation, that Kender Maftn, was by miitake inferted for Henderfon.
But be the fa& as it may, we muft determine according to
the weight of evidence. The Bills of Lading fhew, that Kender
Main had no property on board; for every bill mentions the
perfon to whoin the property belongs, and each bill has a depofizion annexed to it, proving the property mentioned to be the
property of the perfons mentioned, and it appears that there was
no other property than what was mentioned in the Bills of
Lading, and no where in thofe Bills is the name of Kender
J.lfafion to 'be found. To faj then that Kender Mafin had property on board, is to fay that upwards of twenty perfons have
committed perjury, for there-is that number of Bills of'Lading
and depofitions: A mere affertion in a letter can never be fuffered
to weigh down fuch a powerful combination of pofitive proof
oath. nw confidered all the grounds, 'on. which it was obanHaving
je6ted that the cargo was, in this cafe, not protected by the articles of capitulation-we are of opinion that this cargo was proteted by the articles agaiift all French and Brity/ captures;
and, if dmerica is bound by the articles, prote6ted .alfbo from
.dmerican captures. But the queftion is, whether the articles of
capitulation bind America? Jattel, a. celebrated writer on the
laws of nations, fays, 4c when two naions make war a common
caufe, they act as one body, and the war is' alled a fociety of
war ; they are fo clearly and intimately conne~ted, that the,Yur Po/lliminii takes place among them, -as among fellow fubjets." It appears 'rom the eftabliflied form of Rarffom Bills,
that a compa&t of that nature binds the ally, and it appears by
the Paffp'ort granted by the French Governor of Dominica, that
he confiders the capitulation as obligatory upoii.-4tnerica;for he
requires all commande:rof French veffels, and all commanders
of

i6
1 7 g.
''V%-i

CAsns ruled and decreed in the

of Spaniypvcffels, and .merican veff es, the allies of France, not
to impede -the navigation of faid ihip, in her palTage to daflierdam ;.for that the fhippers of the cargo were capitulants, under
the protelion of the French crown. From the very nature of
the coi-aeCion between allies, their compa&s and agreements
with the Gommon enemy muff bind each other, when they tend
to accomplifh the objeds of the allies. Both nations have one
common intereft and one common obje&t. If fuch agreements,
when correfpondent to the terms upon which the alliance is
formed and calculated for the attainment of, the views and defigns which gave birth to it, do not bind the ally, then the confequence would be, that the ally would reap all the fruit and
advantages of the compa6, without being fubj'e& to the terms
and conditions of it; while the enemy with whom the compa&
is made, is expofed, with regard to the ally, to all the difadvantages of it, without participating of all the benefits ftipulated;
an inequality of obligation reprobated by everyprinicipleof reafon
and juftice.
If America is not bound by the capitulation, then it can give
no fecurity tO the capitulants, nor can they with fafety exercife
the rights and privileges of trade conceded, to them. America
being in alliance with France, the ports of France are opened to
our armed veffels ; and anAmerican privateermight poft herfelf in
the ports of Dominica, watch the failing of the fhips from that
port,. purfue and capture them. Under fuch circamftances the
trade and commerce of the Ifland would be totally annihilated.
But not only the cnpitulants would fuffer; France Would
equallyfuftTr; for, if exportation ceafes, the commercial revenue
of the Ifland muff ceafe with it.
The conqueft of Dominica was produfive 6f great advantages tq the common caufe. It was a confiderable reduion of
the power and refources of Great Britain it placed a great body of her fubje&s in a ftate of neutrality ; it leffened the commerce and revenues ofheri governnent, and eventually deprives
her of a part of her dominions.
But if America is not bound by the capitulation, neither can
thecapitulants bc bound with rcgard to Aerica; for no engagement can be a valid one, which ties up the hands of one party,
and leaves the other party at full liberty to exercife, on the party
bound, all the rights of war.
Then, what fliould we think of the French Governor of Dz'mitaca, vcre he to fuffer the capitulants to fit out armed vefrels,
to cruize againft America. But it is faid, that the capitulation,
fo far as it is contended to bind America, is unequal ; for Arnericanproperty exported from Dominica would be liable to Britibcapture, which Brit., property would not.
This

EI MRAL COURT oF APPEALS,

X'7

This argument is not a fair one ; it blencds together what 178£.
ought to be diftinguifhed ; a difference ought to be obferved between the property of Brity/h fubjes and Britih capitulants.Britib fubje&s, not capitulants, may rightfully captureAmerican
property: Americans may rightfully capture their property; but
Brit#i capitulants cannot captureAmericanproperty ; and therefore it is a perfe& equality, that Americans fhall not capture the
property of capitulants.
But it is thought ftrange, that while French, Spanijb,Ainerican
and Briti/b property ihould be liable to capture, the property of
the c'apitulants fhould be exempted from it.
Let us advert for a moment to the peculiar fituation of thofe
capitulants. They are a conquer'ed people and reduced tothe government of France;they are by compa& a neutral body ; they
have neither the power of war, nor peace ; they commit hof.
tilities againft no nation 1neither againit France,nor Spain, nor
A4merica, nor Britain;where then is the ftrangenefs in the
dotrine, that the property of a people thus reduced, thus defencelefs, and thus affing in the line of neutrality, fhould be protedted from capture,?
But the refolutions of Congrefs, with regard to Bermudas anti
other Iflands, have been obje~ted, and it is faid that Count d'Eftaing captured the veffels belonging to thofe Iflands, though, by
the refolve of Congrefs, they were exempted from capture;
which, it is contended, fhews that the agreement of one allydoes
not bind the other. .The refolutions of Congrefs cannot be
confidered as a compa& with -the people of Bermudas and the
other Iflands ; for thofe people were hot in a capaciiy to make
a compa& j they were under fubjeffi6n to the Briti Crown,
and had no authority from the Crown to enter into engagements
withAmerica. The refolutions therefore of Congrefs were a mere
voluntary fufpenfion of the rights of war, with regard to thofe
people, the continuance of which was perfe&ly optional with
A4merica.

.If Francewas bound by thefe refolutions of Congrefs, fhe would
only bd bound in the extent that America was. America might
fay when fhe pleafed, that thofe refolutions ffhould not exift, and
fo might France.
But if Francewas bound to a neutrality with regard to 3er.jnudas and thofe other Iflands ; then Bermudas and thofe other
Iflands were bound to a neutrality with regard zo France: But
thofe Iflands were not bound, therefore France was not bound;
and Count d'E/taing was well juftified in the captures he made.
With regard then to the queftion, . whether the articles of
capitulation bind A4merica," we are of opinion that they do.
But
C

18

1781.
t-od

CAsEs ruled and decreed in the

But the claimants take a ground which they fay will fave the
cargo at allevents ; and this ground is the ordinanlce of Congre(,F
which relates to the rights of neutrality.
Congrefs, Odober 1786, taking into confideration the declaration of her Imperial .fajefly of Rtjpa, with regard to the

rights of neutrality, adopt the principles of the declaration, and
appoint a committee to report refolutions conformable to them.
Refolutions are reported, and on the 7 th of April 1781. before
the capture in the prefent cafe, "Congrefs pafs an ordinance afcertaining 'fet of inftrutions for commanders of aimedveffels,
the 3 d. and 4 th of which are as follow:
You fhall permit all neutral ve.ils
. freely to navigate n
3 d.
cthe high feas or coaft of Amnerica, cxcept fuch as are emiployed in carrying contraband good;s, or foldiers, to the enemies
"

of thefe United States."
4 th. "

You fhall not feize or capture effets belonging to
the fubjefs of the belligerent powers on board of neutral
cc veffels, excepting contraband goods. &c."
Great Britain,-before the capture, had commenced hoftilities
n.gainft the States General ; but by proclamation exempted from
capture, for a limited time, all hips and veffels, belonging tothe
States General of the United Provinces carrying the produce
or manufalures of Dominica, accopding" to the articles of ca-'
pitulatio*i. The fhip in this cae was, the property of Brantlight
and Sn - fubje6ts of the States General, carrying the produce
of Dominica according to.the capitulation. She -was captured by
a Briti/?privateer,within the limited fimep andon a fuppofltin that
Ahmerica is not bound by the articles-of capitulation; her cargo was
the property of Britif/ fubjets.at war with America. This cafe
comes exprefsly within the fourth iltruftion ; the fhip is certainly within the predicament of neutral property, and the cargo is the property of fubje&s of a belligerent power.
But, it is faid, that the rights of neutrality were broken by the
Britib capture.
The Rritib capture was illegal; it was without authority from
the Brit; Crown, It was dire6tly againft the articles of capi-"
tulation, and in oppofition to the Brityh proclamation ' it was a
piratical at, in legal ftri&nefs, and "only excufalle on the circumft.t:ces of the cafe. But fhall Aerica violate, rights of
neutrality, becaufe'another nation has done it ? Or, which is the
prefent c.afe, becaufe a fubjet,' witlout authority "from his nation, has done it? Did the ibip ceafe to be a ieutral fhip by
the capture, and did the cargo ceafe to be Briti/ property ? If .
not; then, at the time of the recapture, the fhipwas a neutral fllip,
and ihe cargo, efFel&s belonging to the fubjeff" of a belligerent
power, and fo cxprefsly within the 4th inftruWion. But-it is obeded,, that Great Britainhas not acceded to the rights of
c

FEDERAL CouRT or APPEALS.

meutrality, and therefore the property on board a neutral vefffel 1781.
ought not to be prote~ied.'
The ordinance of Congrefs makes no exception of GreatBritain; for it fays, you fhall not feize orcapture effe&s belonging
to the belligerent povers on board of neutral veffels. Great Britain is here beyond a doubtcomprehended i for fhe was a belligerent power when the ordinance paffed.
But it is faid this ordinance of Congrefs is obligatory only on
commanders of veifels, but not in the Courts of Admiralty and
Appeal. We cannot think that this objeftion was feriouflv
made.
Uponthe wholewe areof opinion thatthe decreebelowwith regard to the fhip, be confirmed; and with regard to the cargo, that
it be reverfed, and the cargo be charged with the ftipulated freight.

December Seflion, ][781.

MILLER, Libellant and
Appellant, versus

The

The Ship RESOLUTroN, &C.

The Cargo of the Ship
SOLUTION,

-

&c.

motion, of Wiljon, for the Appellants, a rule had beelt
in September Sellion hift, to fhew caufe, why there
)granted
fhould not be a rehearlhg in thefe Appeals : ift, becaufe the
decree had erred in fa&; and 2d. becaufe there had been a difcovery of material teftimony fince it was pronounced: And, it was,
argued on the 26th December, 178"t, by Morris,irl fupport of the
rule, and by Sereant and. Wilockr, in oppofition to it.
In fupport of the'rule, it was faid, that the re-hearing ought
to be allowed, on the principle that humanum eft errare - and bVy
analogy to the praffice of the Court of Chancery, founded oh
that principle. It is true, that the intereft of the community requires, that there fhQuld be an end to controverfies ; but thia
muft be attended to, confiftently with doing juftice. A re-hearing
oftheChancellor's decree teems, indeed, to be a matter of coiirfe,
on application, for that purpofe, by any two Counfel of refpefih5
ble chara&er. Bo. Cur. Can. 240. 243. 364. 385. 4°O
The petition for a re-hearing was filed ) as foon. as information
of thedecree was recei'ted: There has, therefore, been no laches
irk
Cz
('N

