CAsEs ruled and adjudged in thd
1702.

But Ingerfdl, on behalf of the defendaiyt; now moved fof
a Pocedendo ; alledging that in a cafe of Pigot v. 21oung, it had
been decided, that a caufe could not be removed after the arbitrators, or referees, had entered on the bufifiefs fubmiftedi or
referred,' to them.
And THE Cour.TS accordingly, awarded a Pi'ocedendo.

VAUGHAN ve$fusr BLANCHARD.

Hr

EATLY offered to read the returf, on a commiTion to
_1.examine witneffes, in which it was certified, that the
witneffes were duly fworn by a Juftice of the Peace, and examined by the commiffioners. &er]eant,obje&ed, that the comriiTioners themfelves fhould have adminiftered the oath ; or
that if adminiftered by a Juftice of the Peace, he fhould himfelf have certified the fa&," But,
BY THE COURT :-It is not neceffary that the commiflion-;
ers fhould adminifter the-oath themfelves; and: it is to be preDImed, that it was adminiftered in their prefenee.

MALORY verslKIRWAN.
HIS was an ation on a bill of exchange, againft ihe
Tdrawer. The bill was dated the 29 th of Sptemner, 7r8i
and was drawn on the defendant's tenant for£5o, " bing my
part of the rent of Black Rock eftate." It was prefented fox
acceptance and refufed, fome time previoufly to the i 9 th of No.
vember, i781 ; but it was not protefted 'till the 5th of Aigt
1782. No. notice of the proteft was given, nor was any perf6nal application made to the defendant, 'till fometime ift
the beginning of the year 1790 ; *though, it appeared, that in tha
year 1790, he acinowledged hafing heard that the bill was not
paid, fo far back as the year 1783. When the 1ill "vas prefented, the drawee had funds belonging to the drawer, in his
hands ; but he had paid the .amount to the drawer's attorney
in fa&, who foon afterwards died, and the money was loft by
his wife, to whom lie had intrufted it, juft before his death.
For the defendant, &eijeantcontended, that the want of notice was a compleat difcharge. The money was in the hands
of the drawee when the bill was prefented ; and, therefore,
the plaintiff has no excufe in law or equity, for the grofs neg-.
li-enoe of which he has been. gt Ity. Efj. 47 Bulk. N .P..

