HIGH CO1URT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS,

. 795-

Augufi Seflion,

HANNUM,

I795.

et al. Plaintiffs in Error verfus SPEAR, Defendant, in Error.

T

HIS was a writ of Error from the Supreme Court, found-

ed on a bill of -Yceptions, taken at N
Priuj, iti Chelrer
County, on a trial bcfore MIKEAN, Cbief .7uflice, and juflice
YEATEb.

The queftion arofe on the Will of Elizabeth Ring, who had
given power to her Executors to fell lands, for payment of legacies ; and on the argument two points were made . - ft.
Whether the power to fell, given by the Will, was in fa&, for
the payment of debts, or of legacies ? And 2d. Whether by
the laws of Jennfylvania, the creditors of the Teftatrix had fuch
a lien on her lands, as could not be defeated by the fale, which
the Executors had made, by virtue of the power in the Will ?
The counfe; for the plaintiff in Error (Lewis, E. Tilghman,
M'Kean and Rofs), cited the following authorities : i Fol.
Penn. Laws, Dall. Edit. in App. pi 26. c. 5i. Ibid. p. 28.
e. ro9. ibid. p,/29. C. 189. Ibid. P. 32. Penn. Laws
Yeifs'x Edit. p. 6. pl. i09. Ibid. p. 9. p1. 14. Ibid. p. io.
p1'4. 1 ol, DalL. Edit. in 4p. p. 4J. 47. 3 Vol. DalL.'
Edit. p. 52 1.
The counfel for the defendant in Error, (Ingerfoll and W~i!cccks) cited the following authorities : Lac. Law. T'r. 93. 2"
B. 0 nom,378. 2 T'oodes. 348, Cowp. 90. 21. Fin- 505,
Jl. I. 3 and 4, Wm. & .lary. c. 14.* 2 Fez. 590. Amb.
x88. Giib. CA- '330. 2 Fez.' 587. Pr. in Cb. 397. Cia.
Ca. 249. 1 FM Penn. Laws., DalL.. Edit. p. 12, 67. Ibid.
in App. p. 45f
8. x Dall. Rep. 481. LOv. on WYills.
190. 213.
THE COURT delivered their/bpinions, feriathn, to the fol-

lowing effea.
CHEW, Preident. The queftion turns.upon the power to fell
lands, contained in the Will of Elizabeth Ring. If the pow00 2
er
* But, Ingersoll obf6rvedy that the flatute of W. ' 0-2 .C4.
did not extend to Pensylvoania ; and nei:herthe Court, nor the op;
Po fite Counsel, coutradictqed thea ertion,

72
1795.
V

iCAsns affirmed or reverfed in the

er had been to fell for the payment of debts, I flhould incline to
the opinion, that the purcha'er held the lands difcharged from'
the debts. It has been the conflant ufage (and ufage is the beflt
interpreter of the laws) to give, by Will, the power to fell lands,
for the payment of debts. The'titles of purchafers under fuch
powers, have never heretofore been called in queftion and they
oughtnot now to be undermined. But, in the prefent inflance, the power was only given by the Teftatrix to fell the
lands, for the payment of legacies: The Executor, in felling
them for the payment of debts, has affumed a power, which is
not given by the Will ; and if they were fold, with a view to
the payment of legacies, the purchafer has no defence againft
creditors. I am, therefore, of opinion, that the judgment of
the Supreme Court ought to be reverfed.
SHIPPEN,
qfflice. Two quefiions arife in this caufe: i ft.
How far the lands of the deceafed perlon are bound fair his
debts ? And 2d. How far a Teftator may, by his Will, affe& the
right which his creditors have in his lanis ?
ift. Lands were made fubje& to the payment of debts, by
agreement between the proprietors, and the firft adventurers,
for fettling Pennfylv,dnia, before they left England. This agreement was confirmed by a compa& in 1682 ; and by a fubfequent a& of the Legiflature lands were fubjeled to fale, for
debts on judgiient and execution, in fuits againft executors.
it-is obvious that the Legiflature intended to givecreditorsas good
a fecurity, with regard to the landsj as to the chattels, of their
debtors. The execution iffues againft the Executors ; and, by
virtue of, the writ, the lands of the Teflator, in the hands ofan
heir, or devifee, may bc levied on. In the laft aa for regulat.
ing defcents (3 Yol. Dall Edit. p. 523.) a ftrong intimation is
given of the fenfe of the Legiflature, that the lands are bound
for the payment of debts, from the death of the debtor. This
point feems, now, therefore,. to be fairly at reft.
. -2d. There can be no fatisfa&ory reafon, why a Teftator
Alould not have the power to order a fale of lands for the, payment of his debts, provided the exercife of it does not militate.
with the general principle of the lien, which the law has given
to creditors. This, however, is not the cafe before the Court ;
for, the power given to the Executors-was to fell for the payment of legacies. Every purchafer is bound to know the law.
An Executor, with a power to fell, flands on the fame footing
as any other Truflee, and muft purfue the terms of his truft.
The proceeds of the land, when difpofed of, under a power to
Jell for the payment of legacies, cannot be confidered as affets
in the hands of the Executor -s fo that if the.fale were valid Againit creditor§ they would be deprived of thi fecurity -Which
tho

-IrGH CoURT 0P
orRORs &N-D APPEALS.

the policy, and pofitive provifion, of our law, meant to give
them.
It appears, therefore, to me, that the judgment of the Stpreme Court muft be reverfed.
SMITH, qjlice. I do not feel myfelf at liberty tojoin in the
decifion of the general queftion, as I have abed in the chara&er
of an.Executor, in a manner that may be affe&ed by it. But
I ftrongly incline to the opinion of the Prefident, that a fale by
an Executor, under a power to fell for the payment of debts,
is valid; and the purchafer will hold the lands difcharged from
the general lien in favor of creditors. The prefent cafe, however, is not of that defcription ; for, the Will only gives a power to fell for the payment of legacies ; and fuch a fale muff be
void as to the creditors.
BIDDLE, Prefident of the Philadelphia Common Pleas. Ihave
no doubt in this cafe. A fale by Executors, under a power to
fell for the payment of legacies, is not valid againft creditors.
If the power ha4 been to fell'for the payment of debts, a Iona
fide fale would, in my opinion, be good againft creditors, and
all the world.
BY THE COURT; Let the judgment of the Supreme Court
-be reverfed.

CntRcun'

1795.

