396

CAW:

rule4 "a- diudged in th&

.1798.
The Court being divided in opinion),it became a doubt, whe.
%wo%
ther fentence could be pronounced upon .the defendant ; and a
wiffh was expreffed by the Judges and the -Attorfiey of the Di,
ftric, that the eafe might be put intq fuch a form, as would ad..
mit of obtaining the ultimate decifion.of the Supreme Court,
upon the important principle of the difcuffion: But the coun.
fel for the prifoner did not think themfelves authorifed to enter
into'a compromife of ;hat nature. The Court, after a ihort
confultation, and declaring, that the fentence was mitigated in
confideration of the defendant's circumfiances, proceeded to
adjudge,
That tie defendant be imprifoned for three months ; that he
pay a fine of 2oo dollars ; and- that he' ftand committed, 'till
this fentence be complied with, and the colts of profecution
j~aid.

HOLLINGSWORTH .verfts ADAWS.

OREIGN ATTACHMENT returnable td 'the prefent
Term. The defendant was flated to be a citizen of De-.
laware, in the proccfs which had ifflued; and M. Levsy, having
produced an affidavit in proof of that fa&, moved to quafh the
writ, on the ground, that the Federal Courts had no jurifdiction, in cafes of Fore;gnAttachment. By the r i th fleion of the

Judicial ad (i Fol. Swift's Sdit.p. 55) it is exprefsly provided,

that "no perfon fhall be arrefted in one fliftrid for tria in
another, inany civil adion before a Circuit, or Diftrid, Court:
And no ci-il.fwt fhall be brought before either of the fiid
Courts againft'an inhabitant of the United States, IY any original
,rocffs, in any other di/trit? than taJW .whereofhe isan inhabitant,or
it,which he Jhallbefound at the time of ferving the writ." Now,

this is a civil fuit, brought here by original procefs againft the defendant, who is an inhabitant of another diftri6, and was not
found in Pennfylvania at the time of frrving the writ.
. .
Tbomas and Hallowell, on- behalf of the plaintiff, wifhed for
time to enquire into the prad"tice; out not being able on the next
day to alfign any fatisfatory reafon in maintenance of the a6dion,
Ti-ir COURT direated the writ to be quafhed with colts.
WILImNSON e a?. veifusNiCKLlN et a.

'THIS was an adlion brought.by the Indorfees of'a Bill of ExI change, drawn by AJl'OlenaehanandAloore, upon George

Rarc!ay,

of Lcudon, in favor of the defendants, and by them indorfed

