CAswS ruled an

adjudged in tji

'79!.
Ricmip .vtrfs BIXTEP,

9" al.*

E defence fef up in his alion was a tender of continen.,
HfF
As the pyoof refpefing the date
tal money, in 178.
of the bills was not -cler, the defer-dant's counfel contended,
that by the ad of 3 d A4pril, 1781, nQ more could be recovered
thAn the yalhe of the money tendered, reduced by the fcaie at
the time of tender'; and this, whether the bills were of an early, or late, date. i Vol. Dall. Edit. p.:88o.
SHIP1'EN, ujli.- in his charge to the Jufy, held, that the 2&

of 1781 di'd not apply to this cafe, That it is an ex-plfaito

a&, and fhduW be confitrued ftri&ly ; aid though the legiflature may havk given certain powers to uditors (who feem to be
a Court of Chim'cery, and can apply thamgfelves to the confcience of the party) yet we are not to extend it further. A Jury
has not in all refpe&s the powers of thefe Auditors; and in the
cafie of reduiced, paymeots, though Auditors are reftri&ed, yet
Courts, and general referrees, have always gone on the geneta
juftice of the cafe. It would be a hard conftru&ion to carry it
leyond the words,
Verdi& for the PlaintiflF
Foxciarr and GAuzoWAY vesfis NAGLY.

IlHS was an a&ion'of debt, and iffue was joined on the

JL plea of payment. It appeared that the defendant had
paid the principal and all the intereft, except for feven years and
a half, which'he now contended ought to be deduaed, as the
plaintiffs were Britj/ fbUii1rjs, and not refident within the Amercan lines.during the war, the defendant's counfel infifted, that the
point had been fiilly fettled in the cafe of Ojborn verfus Mf.fltn's Exertdors ;. and alfo, in that of Hoare verfus .lllen. t But
'thu plaintiffs counfel endeavoured to diftinguila this cafe, by
proving that the parties had an intercourfe : That Galloway was
vith the enemy while they we-,e in Philadelphia, and that Nagee the defendant, then lived within three miles of the city ; and
might have come in and gorne out at pleafure. They cited the
cafe of the Exkatoru-of Meafe verfus Rhodes. There the mopaey let out was the property of infants in.Irdand, and the obligers
Tried at .BerAr, .Nisi Trius, before SRiPEiiq and BnADroRpA
,yustices,ih October, 1791.
o.
102.
1 Ant.

