Cm.urxT

CouRT, Pennfylvana .Diftri~t.

297
1793.

A1pril Term, 1793"

Prefent, WILSON, .IREDELL and PETERs, YuVar.
The UNITED STATES 'verful RAVARA.

THE defendant, a Conful

from Genoa, was indi °ed for a
mifdemeanor, in fending anonymous and threatening
letters to Mr. Hammond, the Brit Minifter, Mr. -Jo/land,4
citizen of Philadelph;a, and feveral other perfons, with .a view
to extort money.
Before the defendant pleaded, his counfel (Heatl, Ieewt;
and Dallas) moved to quafh the indictment, contending that to
the Supreme Court of the United States, belonged the.exclufive
cognizance of the cafe, on account of the defendant's official
chara&er. By the 2d fMlion of the d article of the Conftitution, it is exprefsly declared, that, " in all cafes affe&ing Ambaffadors, other public Minifters, and Confuls, and thofe in which
a State fhall be a party, the Supreme Court/allkave originctjurjf.
-diion."By declaring in the fequel of the fame feftion " that in
all the other cafes beforementioned the Supreme Court fhall have
appellatejurifdi&ion," the word origina/isrendered tantamount to
exclufive, in the fpecifled cafes. But furely an original jurifdiction eftabliffied by the Conftitution in the Supreme Court, cannot be exclufively vefted by law in any inferior Courts. The
1 3 th feLtion of the judicial a provides, that " the Supreme
Court fhall have exclufively all fuch jurifdition of fuits or proceedings
Pp
upon the point, whether the Federal power of naturalization *wasexclufive, or concurrept ; and n,,thi,g wa-faid, by eithe, fioe.rtfpec.ing the exifuence and operation of tle act of P nnslsania, wi ich,
as it depended in form and fpirit on the old Conflitution was virtually repealed, when that Contitution was abolifhed. The ideas of
the reporter on that fubject, are contained in a note upon the naturalzation lavis of PRnns lvania, in his editi',n of the acts of ti'e Ge.
neral Affembly, (i Vo/. P. 7. a) It may be proper to add, th--t there
Las fince been a deciflon betore Judge BxIVL.inthe Common.Pl-a3
of Philadelphia Cout-ty, where the exiftence of the Pennsylvania law
was t0e gift of the controverxy : And in that cafe, as well as the cafe
of 0 e United States v. ilatto (post.) the act of Affembly was adiudged to be Qbsoletc.

4ge

(CAsrs ruled -and adjudged in the.

1793. ceedings againfl, Ambafladors, or other public Miniflers, or their
Sdomeftics, or dorneftic fervants,_ as a Court of Law can have or
exercife confitfently with the law of nations; and original, but
not exclufive, ju'itdidion of all fuits brought by Ambaffadors,
or other public Miniffcrs, or in which a Conful, or Vice-Conful fhal be a party." This provifion obvioufly refpe&s civil firits;
but the xitbJe&. declares, that c the Circuit Court fhall have
exclufive cognizance of all crimes and ences cognizable under the authority of the United States, except where this a6 other-.
wife" provides, or the laws of the United States fhall otherwife
dire&, and concuirent jurifdi&ion with the Ditri t Courts of
the crimes and offences cognizable therein." Thi.&is a criminal profccutjon, not'otherwife provided for ; and if the jurifdi&ion can be exclufively vefted in the Circuit Court, it deftroy
the originaljurifdifiorr given by the Conflitution to the Supreme
Court. In juftice to the Legiflature, therefore, fuch a con
ftruflion mull bc eje&ed-; and the cognizance of the cafe be
left, upon a conftitutional footing, excIufively to the Supreme
Court. The argument is the more cogent from a confideration of the refpet which is-due to Confuls, by the law of nations.
'att. b. 2. c. 2. f. 34RanZLe, the Diftri& Attorney, flated in-reply, that there was
a material diftinqion between Ptublic Minifters, and Confuls;
the former being intitled to high diplomatic privileges, which
the latter, by the law of nations, had no right to claim ; and
he contended, that the Supreme Court has original, but not
exclufive, jurifdiftion of offences committed by Confuls : That
the Difaria Court had jurifdiaion (exchifively of the State
Courts) of all offences committed by Confuls, except where the
punifhment to be infli&ed-exceeded thirty ftripes, a fine of one
hundred dollars, or the term of five months imprifonment : And
that the Circuit Court had, in this refpe&, a concurrent jurifdiffion with the Supreme Court as well as the Diftri&t Court.
If indeed this is a crime " cognizable under the authority of
the United States," it is within the exprefs delegation of jurifdi&ion to the Ciycuit Court.
NWIL60. , :7 vuioe. I am of opinioi, that although the Confitution vefts in the Supreme Court an originaljurifdifion, in
cafes like the prefent, it doc.. not preclude, the Legiflature from
exercifing the power of veiling a concurrent jurifdiaion, in
fuch infcrior Courts, as might by law be eftablifhed: And as
the Legiflature has exprefsly declared, that the Circuit Court
fhall have cc exclufive cogliizance of all crimes ,nd offences,
cognizable under the authority of the United States," I think
the indi6iment ought to be fuftained.
I REPELL, Jq/hlice.

I do not concur in this opinion, becaufe it

pppeaprs to me. that for obvious reafons of public policy, the
Conffitution.

Cibcur CduTj Pennfyvania DTfrifc.

799

Conflitution intended to vreft an exclufive jurifdi6lion iii the Su- 1793jaeme Courts upcin all queftions relating to the Public Agehts t
bf Foreign Nations. Befides, the context of the judiciary article of the 0oniftitutiori feems fairly to juftify tbN interpretdo
tion, that the word original, means exclfi'e, jurifdiiion.
PETERS, YJ7ice -As I agree in the opinion expreffed b
judge 7fl4yn, fot the reafons which he has affigned, it is unneceffary to entet into afiy deiail.
The mption for quafliing the indiltment was accordingly
reje~led, and the defendant pleaded notguilty ; but his triai was
poftponed) by confent, 'till the next Term.,
LIvIlGSTOb
Pp z
i The defendant was tried in April Selion, 1794, before JAY,
thief Yustice, and PETERS, 7ustFce ; and was defended, b.y the fame
advorates, on the following points : t f. That the matter charged in
the indictmient was not a crime by the Common Law, itor is it made
fuch by any pofitive Law of the United States. In Englaftd it wasonce Treafon ; it Is now felony ; but in both infiances it iwas the eft.
feft of pofitive law. It can only, therefore, be confidered as a
bare inenace of bodily hurt; aiid, without a confequeat inconvenience,
it is no injury public or private . 4 B1. C. 5. 8 Hen. 6. c. 6. 9.
Geo. x. c. 22. 4 B , C. r44. 3 B1, C. 120. 2d. That confidering the official charaaer of the defendant, fuch a proceeding ought
xiot to be fuftained, nor tuch a puiifliment inilicied. The iaw of nations is a part of the law of the United Staies ; 'aiid thb litw df nations
feemt t6 require, that a Conful flhould be indeperident df the ordimary
crimit)al juftice of the place where he iefide. Vatt. b. 2. C. 2. S. 34.
3 d. But that, exclufive of the legal exceptions, the pfofemution had not
been maintained in point of dvidence; fbi-, it was ill circumflantial
and prefumptive, and that too, in fo flight a degree, as ought not tdweigh with a Jury on fo iniportant dn hTtie. 2 Hal. H. P. C.
289. 4 Sind. Hist. Rug. P. 382. in not,
.Rawle, in reply, infifted that ihe off'ece "-i'a indi&able at comn.
mon law i that the Cofifular char'afer of the defendant gave jurifdiction t6 th6 Circuit Cort, and did not eniitle him to an exemption
f"om profecution agreeably i( the law of nations ; and ihat 6h6proof
viasas firong as-thC riatture of th cafe aIlowed, or the iules of evi.
dence required. In fuppofi of hig argurhent h6 cited the fbllowing
authorities. 4 Bl. Coin. x42. 144. z Lev. 146. z .Eb. 809.
4 B1. C'. t8o. Stra. 93. 4. B1. C, 242. Crowen Cire. 376.
Fost. aa8. Leach 2o4. 1 Dali. Bsp; 339i a Sid. z68. Comb;
304. Leach 39. Ld. Ray. 1461. r Dall. Rep.. 45;
THE COURT wereof opinion in th& charge, that the 6ffence wav
ihidu&able, and that the defendant was.not privileged from pcofecu.
' ion, in virtue of hit Confular appointment.
ThM J ry, after a fiortconfultation, pronoiunced the deendamti
Guilty; bnt he was afterwards pardoned, on conditiot,. (as .1 havd
]-eard) that he farrendered his commifion and .Exequatur.
As to the que.fioz of jurifdi ion, fec 7*he United Stitcs vermui
Mrrrai,post.

