CAs - ruled and decreed in the
I782.

k

Can fuch condu& confift with neutrality ? Can there be a
more flagrant violation of it ? -Does it not aim to wreft, from
France and the United States, the advantages they acquired by
the conqueft of Domninica : And does it not evince a frauduh.tc
combination with Britib fubje&s, and a palpable partiality ?
But, "why flall the rights of neutrality be broke by works
of fupererogation ? If the cargo was Britijh property, unprote&ed by the capitulation, it was then the property of enemies,
.and as it did not confift of 'Contraband articles, it was protected
frQm capture, by the ordinance of Congrefs: The Brig, therefore, needed not to employ fraud and firatagem to give it the
garb of neutrality, in order to °fcreen it from capture."
If the offence, which th Brig has committed, confifted in
employing fraud and firatagem, merely to protect property
which belonged to an enemy, the objection might, in. confeqiience of the ordinance of Congrefs, be of fome force. But
the offince is not 6f fo limited a nature ; it is far more extenlive, and comprehends a flagrant violation of the tights of neutrality : It refults from a fraudulent combination with Brii
fubje&s, to give weight and energy to the arms of GreatBritain.
by the "re-eftabliihment of a commerce, and its emoluments,
which fhe had loft by the conqueft of Dsminica.
But, it is objected, "The cargo is not prize, becaufe it is
not cbntraband, and all the other effeCts and gooas, tho' the
property 6f an enemy, are exempted from capture by the ordinance of Congres." "
- If the Erflern had been employed in a fair commerce, fuch
as was confiftent with tbh rights of neutr ity, her carg, tho'
the property of an enemy, could not be prize; becaufe Congrefs have faid, 15y their'ordinance, that the rights of neutralit
flall extend proteffionr to fuch effedts and goods of an enemy.
But, if the fights of neutrality are violated, Congrefs have not
faid,'that fuch a violated neutrality fhall give fuch protethion : 4Nbor
could they have faid fo, without confouniding all the diftin~ions
between right and wrong.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion, that the decree below
be reverfed; and that the faid Brig and Cargo be condemned,
as prize, for the ufe of the .captors, without cofts.
KEANE, et. at. Libellants and

Appellants, verfus

The BRiG GLOucrSTER,
Appellees,..

et a.

•THIS was an appeal from the Admiralty of Pennylvania,
after argument, PACA and GRmFIN, the prefiding
[and
Commiffioners,' delivered the following fentence.

FEDERAL COURT Or APPEALS.
BY THE COURT :-Two obje&ions are made to the decree
below:
The firft obje&ion is, that a libel does not lie by the crew of
u prii ateer, for their refpe&ive proporti6n's of a prize.
The fecond obje~tion is, that the libellnts, in this cafe, are
not part of the privateer's crew, nor captors, entitled to a proportion of the prize fiated in their libel.
With regard to the firif objeftion, we are of opinion, that a
libel does lie, and that it is the proper and regular mode of re.
drefs: For, the commiffion of a privateer, according to the form
eftablihed by Congrefs, extends not only to the captain, but
alfo to the fhip and crew; they are captors, as well as the captain, and their rights to the thing aptured, is equally founded
on the commiffion. The Ship is figuratively confidered as an
agent, and reprefents the owners. Articles of agreement generally dir the diftribution; but if no articles are executed, the
Admiralty Courts will make diftribution, in proportion to, the
number, intereft and merits of the captors.
But, it is Laid, "the Admiralty Court, in this cafe, had exccercifed all its jurifdi&ion and power ; that a libel was filod
cc by the captain, and a decree paffed for condemnation' that
c the prize has been fold, and the money lodged in the hands
" of the Marfhal; that the Marfhal muft make diftributlon
- according to the lift of the crew, which the captain fhal de-.
" liver; and if the captain makes a falfe lift, the party injured
" has no other remedy than by an a~tion at law."
The. original libel, we find, was filed by the captain, in behalf of himfelf and crew, and the decree adjudges the prize to
the zaptors. The Marfhal has' fold the prize, and the money
lies in his hands; on application,, he refufes to pay the libellaits ; and the queftion i , what is the mode of redrefs ?
We are of opinion that the libellants had a double remedy:
They had an aaion at law, for money had and received to their
ufe; and they were entitled to a fupplemental libel, upon which
a decree ard order might have been obtained, to compel the
Marfhal to pay the money. Such a libel is nothing more than
a'form of proceeding, to carry into execution the original decree;
and if the Admiralty Courts are competent to give judgment,
they muft be competent to carry it into execution.
We are alfo of opinion, that if a Marhal makes dilh'ibution,
without the orders of the Admiralty Court, he does it at his
peril. The lift or return of the crew by the captain, is no juftification for his payments. He is the officer to carry the decree
of the Court into execution, and he muf'take care that his'
payments are made according to fuch derees'; for, on mifapplication of the payment, a libel will lie to make him refponfible. If he would therefore a6t fafcly, he ought, before he makes
his,

1782.

CASEs
1782.

ruled and decreed in the

his payroents to obtain the order and dire&ion of the Court;
Sand the Admiralty
-previous meafures

Courts oughi not to make an order, without
to guard againfi fraud and impofition, by
providing for latent claims.
But on the fecond ground, it is faid, the decree below ought
to be reverfed; which is, that the libellants are not part of

thc privateer's crew, nor. captors, entitled to the prize ftated
in their libel.
It is pr6ved, and admitted ori all hands,. that the llbellants
were fhipt on board the privateer, at Philadelphia ; that they
were hipt under the articles of agreement, and fhipt and received on board, as part of the privateer's crew ;' that, as part
of the privateer's crew, they navigated the privateer down to
Chefter ; thai there the uptain, without any objeaibn to their
fkill or ability, ordered- them on hore, and obliged them tG
abandon the privateerand left them; and thdt afterwards he, and
all the refidue of the crew, deftroyed the original articles of
agreement, and executed a frefh fet.
Under the circumftances ftated and admitted, we are'of
opinion, that the libellants are entitled to a full proportion of
all prizes which were captured during the cruife, for which the
libellanis were engaged, and from which they were forcibly
excluded.
We have already o~ferved, that the right, of the crew to,
captures is not founded on the articles of agreement ; but CnL

the privateer's commiffion. *WhVep the libellants were fhipt
at Philadelphia, and received on board by the captain as part
of the crew, the right under the commiffion- attached. This.

right they derived from an authority, paramount to the captain,
and therefore the'captain could not arbitrarily deprive them
of it.
But it is faid, the captain, only1 did the wrong ; and therefare
be alone hould be refponfible for it, and not the refidue of
the crew.

The libellants do not feek a compenfation for a wrong; they
are not in purfuit of damages for a .oirt. When they were fhipt
and veciVed on board at .Philadelphia, they then became part
of the. ci'ew, and. the right to captarre and make prizes was
a right they heldjointly with the hip aid officers, and refidue
of the crew. Tho articles of agreement dire&ed the diftribution, and afcertained. the fhare ; and the libel is for ihares,
according to the aiticles. The 'demand, therefore, which the
libellants make, does not leffen the fhares of the refiduc of
the crew, nor call on them for a compenfation: It is a demand,
which. the refidue of the crew acknowledged, and agreed to,
when they executed the articleo.

F1,DERAL CoURT

or

APPEAL9.

But it is faid, on the difmifllon of the libellants, their pro- 1782.
p ortion of the rifk and labour fell on the refidue of the crewv; ko-twJ
and, therefore, they ought to have an additional compenfation teyond the articles of agreement.
Whatever compenfation, they may, in jufice, be entitled to,
they cannot difpenfe with, nor derive it from the articles of agreement. 'The, articles make no provifion for fuch events, and no
man, on board, can claim beyond the extent of the articles.
On this ground it is, that although a Mariner, who is once fhipt
on board, and is difmiffed by the Captain, wi.thout fault, before
the voyage is ended, is entitled'to his fipulated wages, for the
-whole voyage ; yet the refidue of the Crew can only claim to the
extent of their contra& ; although, by the difmiffion of fuch Mariner, the rifl
and labour becomes proportionally greater.
But, it is faid, that after the difmiflion of the libellants, new
articles were executed by the Captain, and refidue'of the Crew;
by which their fhares of prizes were augmented, in proportion
to the leffening of the crew, by the libellants' difmiffion; and, that
the libellants' claim affets their right,.under the fubfequent articles. •
The Captain and the refidue of the Crew could not cancel
the original articles of agreement. When a contra& is made,
it can only be diffolved by the confent of all parties. The after
articles, therefore, cannot affe& the original articles, nor authorife a departure from them.
Thefe articles, inftead of militating agairift the libellants' claim,
tend to eftablifh it on another ground : For, they fhew that the
.refidue of the Crew approved of the difmiffion, and therefore
ought to be confidered as particip.r criminix, and equally refponfible with the Captain.
But, it is faid, " that the libellahts did not, by any perfonal
fervice, contribr
to the capture in the prefent cafe; that the
prize was taken by the fhip, the Captain and Officers, and refidue of the Crew ; and, that although the libellants- had a
riglit under the commiflion to make captures, yet the. right was
not exercifed in the capture of the prize in queftion."
The fhip, Captain, Officers and Crew, were joint-tenants of
the right to capture and make prizes conceded by the commiffion. Whatever was acquired inconfequence of this joint right
and intereft muff be confidered as- common ftock, and like the
cafe of a joint partnerfhip, not fubje& to furvivorfhip. 'Where
the right and intereft is a joint concern, the queftion neverc.an
bematerial, which of the parties have been moft active and alert:
The only queftion that can arife muft be; whether the joiint
concern and intereft is fairly fubfifting ?
Upon the whole, we are of opinion, thit the decree below
be affirmedwith.coftz to the libellants.
Maj

