SUREME COURT OF Pcnnfyhaza.

1.91 ,

condition was, that the obligor fliould, on or before the ift 792.
&L-.j
January, 1789, render to the obligee a true account of, and'
pay over, all monies received by virtue of the power. On the
17 th November, 1791, the bond was affigned by Paul Sbertdine,
to Abraham Sheredine, who brought the prefent fuit, in his own
name, and the iffue was joined on the plea of performance of
covenants. It appeared, that the defendant had received a certain number of Guilders, but they were one third lefs in
value than German Guilders; and that he had offered to pay
the money to the plaintiff in the coin in which he had received it.
It was contended by M. Levyj, for the defendant, that there
was in this cafe a fufficint tender and refufal : 3 Term. Rep.
5g4; and this being a bond for the performance of conditions,
is not within the provifion of the a& of Affembly, enabling affignees to fue in their own names; which (peaks only of fuits
on bonds" for fuch urn of money as is therein mentioned ;"
fo that the plaintiff muft be non-fuit. i rd. Dall. Edit. 2
Ld. Ray. r17I.

i Ld. Ray. 1362.

But 8erjeant anfwered, that, in the firit place, there coui
be no non-fuit after plea of payment, or performancc of coveants ; and, inthe next place, that the practice of Pennfyivanid
would juftify the form of a&ion. As to the tender, it is a mere
olfer to pay; and, at all events, it ought to have been pleaded.
BY THE COURT :-Whether the a&ion is regularly brought,
we are willing to referve as a.point for future confideration But, on the merits, we can fee no ground for a verdi& in favor of the defendant. A mere offer to pay the money is not,
in legal ftri&nefs, a tender ; and even if the tender wag in itfelf
fufficient, the defendant is not entitled to take advantage of it)
unlefs he pleads it, and brings the money into Court: For, a
verdi& now given in his favor on the prefent pleadings, would
forever difcharge him from the plaintiff's demand.
Little has been faid on the fcore of intereft. That, however,
,depends upon the sime of the defendant's receiving it before, or
after, the zft of January, 1789, when he was bound to ren.,
tier his account.
Verdi& for the plaintiff
GRUDB's Executors, verfus GRUB'S Executors.

THIS

caufe being referred in the Common Pleas, the reTferrees made report into office ; and afterwards the plaintiff removed the qaufe by certiorariinto this Court.

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in thd
1702.

But Ingerfdl, on behalf of the defendaiyt; now moved fof
a Pocedendo ; alledging that in a cafe of Pigot v. 21oung, it had
been decided, that a caufe could not be removed after the arbitrators, or referees, had entered on the bufifiefs fubmiftedi or
referred,' to them.
And THE Cour.TS accordingly, awarded a Pi'ocedendo.

VAUGHAN ve$fusr BLANCHARD.

Hr

EATLY offered to read the returf, on a commiTion to
_1.examine witneffes, in which it was certified, that the
witneffes were duly fworn by a Juftice of the Peace, and examined by the commiffioners. &er]eant,obje&ed, that the comriiTioners themfelves fhould have adminiftered the oath ; or
that if adminiftered by a Juftice of the Peace, he fhould himfelf have certified the fa&," But,
BY THE COURT :-It is not neceffary that the commiflion-;
ers fhould adminifter the-oath themfelves; and: it is to be preDImed, that it was adminiftered in their prefenee.

MALORY verslKIRWAN.
HIS was an ation on a bill of exchange, againft ihe
Tdrawer. The bill was dated the 29 th of Sptemner, 7r8i
and was drawn on the defendant's tenant for£5o, " bing my
part of the rent of Black Rock eftate." It was prefented fox
acceptance and refufed, fome time previoufly to the i 9 th of No.
vember, i781 ; but it was not protefted 'till the 5th of Aigt
1782. No. notice of the proteft was given, nor was any perf6nal application made to the defendant, 'till fometime ift
the beginning of the year 1790 ; *though, it appeared, that in tha
year 1790, he acinowledged hafing heard that the bill was not
paid, fo far back as the year 1783. When the 1ill "vas prefented, the drawee had funds belonging to the drawer, in his
hands ; but he had paid the .amount to the drawer's attorney
in fa&, who foon afterwards died, and the money was loft by
his wife, to whom lie had intrufted it, juft before his death.
For the defendant, &eijeantcontended, that the want of notice was a compleat difcharge. The money was in the hands
of the drawee when the bill was prefented ; and, therefore,
the plaintiff has no excufe in law or equity, for the grofs neg-.
li-enoe of which he has been. gt Ity. Efj. 47 Bulk. N .P..

