364
t

CAsts ruled and adjudged in tho

1796 ced beyond the jurifdition of the Court, it would, perhaps, be
proper to infift upon a more rigid pra&ice than has been putued. But the diffoilution of the injun&ion would, probably,
put the property out of the power of the Court; and incapacitate us from doing juftice hereafter to the parties, according to
the ieal merits of their refpe&ive pretenfions. It is proper,
however, to obferve, that I do not think an affidavit to the contents of a Bill, is the only foundation for i ffuing an injunCion.
.Harrr~on, on this point, is himfelf a refpelable authority,
though he cites no other book : but, independent of all written
authorities, reafon and the di&ates of juflice require, that
other proof befides the party's oath fhould be allowed. Nor,
tnder all the circumftances, can I decide, that the delay which
has occurred is without a reafonable excufe. It will be proter, however, in. continuing the injun6ion, to apprife the
complainant, that, unlefs fome good caufe to the contrary is
fhewn, I fhall be for diffolving it, at the next term.
WILSON, Yzflice :---This motion is made on two grounds
ift. That the injunclion originally ifflued on an improper foundation ; and 2d. That there has been an unreafonable delay in
bringing the fuit to a decifion under it. It does not appear to
ire, however, that either of thefe grounds is fufficiently fupported. The irregularity refts folely on the warit of an affidavit; but this, though it is frequently, and, perhaps, generally,
the mode of proceeding, is not, in my opinion, the only one.
In the very cafe now before the Court, the evidence of the Power of Attorney, operating effectually as a transfer of the property, -is certainly firongei evidence, tha(h an affidavit of the
interefted party; With refpe& to the delay, it is fworn to
have happened through inadvertance and miftake ; and no evidence of a wilful procraftination has appeared in the courfe of
the difcuffion. On the contrary, an overture has been made
to bring the merits to a hearing, as expeditioufly as can be devifed. It is to be cdnfidered, likewife, that if the injunction is
diffolved, the Court put it out of their power to do effelual
juftice ; but, if it is continued, juflice can be dorne, eventually,
to the injured party; whether the complainant, the defendant,
-r Meffrs. rollocks, lhall eftabhih a title to the property.
The motion refufed.
WHARTON'S Executors verfus LOWREY.
ILL in Equity.

The Bill was filed in O'oker 1793, to

which had been fettled and figned by
Bopen an ascount,
in April, 1781, touching the, tranfa&ions
the complainants,

between

CIRcuIT CouRT, Pennfylvania Diftri&.

365

between the teftator and the defendant, while commifiaries in 1796.
the -4mericanarmy, during the revolutionary war. The Bill
charged the defendant (among other fraudulent pradices) with
making erafures in the complainant's books; and, alfo, fet forth
a number of fpecific errors and over-charges in the account.
The defendant filed an anfwer to the Bill, in which he denied
all fraud, canvaffed and refuted the fpecification of errors and
over-charges, nd pleaded the ftatute of limitations.
Rawle and Lewis, having obtained a rule to fhew caufe, why
the Bill flould not be amended, by inferting, that the frauds
charged had come to the complainant's knowledge within fix
years before the commencement of the fuit, now moved to make
the rule abfolute; and cited I Har.Ch. io6. 3 P. WFm. 143.
Dallas, for the defendant, admitted that the allowance of
amendments was difcretionary with the Court; but, contended,
that after a general anfwer to the allegations, and 'a denial of
the frauds Rated in the Bill, the complainant ought not to be
indulged, without fome other proof to fupport the charge of
fraud, than his bare affertion. In the cafes cited in 3 P. WiM .
143, there was no anfwer to the Bill, but merely a plea of the
ftatute of limitations; and in the principal cafe, the Chancellor
only ordered the defendant to anfwer, which the prefent defendant has already done. Twelve years have elapfed fince the account was fettled; and the fraud being denied on oath, and unfupported by any fpecies of evidence, the complainant ought
not to be permitted to harrafs the defendant, and procraftinate
a decifion.
By THE COUR :-Confiderations refpeaing the merits of the
caufe, ought not to weigh in the determination of the prefent
queftion. The complainant could not forefee that the ftatute
of limitations would be pleaded , and it is in order to bring before the Court an effential faa arifing from that plea, that the
anendient is propofed.
The rule made abfolute.
KETLAND, qui tant. -erfus The CAssius.

AN

information that had been eihibited againft the Ca/7ius,
-- Las a veffel illegally out-fitted within the jurifdifion of
the United States,* came on to be argued upon a fuggeftion filed
ex-offcio by the Attorney of the Diftri&) in purfuance of directions from the Prefident, flating, tl ..t the veffel was the public
See the United States v. R. P-ters. Es,-. in the Supremc Court of
the United Satcs.

