-,ift

itiq6.

~laid

CAsrs ruled and adjudged in tha

with the cpncurrencecof the other members*of the Court,
dbwn the following politions.
MAIKEAN, Chief Jiflice.-ift. Where a fecond Will is made,
containing an exprefs claufe of relocation, the preceding Will,
)hough not foimally- cancelled, is revoked.
2d. Where a. fecond Will is deftroyed, without more, the pre.
ceding Will, not having been cancelled, is, generally fpeaking,
i. ffafo revived.
3 d. Where a fecond Will is cancelled, under drcumflances
that manifeft an intention either to revive, or not to revive, the
preceding Will, thofe circumftances muft be proved.
4 th. The mew a6t of making a fecond teftament, is a revo.
cation of a preceding teftament, in relation to perfonal eftate;
the law xhrowing the perfonal eftate on the executor as a truftee.
III; It was fuggeRed. by Ingerfoll, that, in England, an exe.
tutor is entitled in his own right to the rejidunur of perfonal
eftate, undifpofed of by the Will; whereas in Peni~fylvania,the
exeeutor holds it only as truftee for the next of kin.
J13ut, 13Y T-E COURT: There is no fuch diftination to be
found in any A& of Affernbly, or judicial det .rmination. The
vaext of kin 'are only entitlcd to perfonal eftate, in the cafe of inteftacy 5 and a man cannot be inteftate, who has mide an ExeCutor,
The principal point in the caufe turned upon the fRate of Mr.'
Bradford's mind at the time of cancelling the eecond Will and_
declaring his intention to die inteftate 5 and the Jury being of
opinion, from the evidence, that he was then in poffeMion of a
competent underfLanding, found a
Verdi6t for the Defendant.
Ingerfoll & R. Stockton (of Neww-jerfey) for the plaintiff. Lew..
is 4l. Levy' & rod, fPr the defendant,
TiCE,

GRE Ne'S,

Cafe.

IE.ORGE GREENE, having petitioned for a difcharge

-_Ir"under the laws for the relief of infolvent debtors, one of

his creditors was offered as a witnefs to prove, that feveral
judgments had been confeflfd by the petitioner, without a valua,
ble confideration, and with a view 'to defraud. It was objec-ted,
that a creditor was not a competent witnefs ; as his teftimony
would go to invalidate the judgments; as well as to the impri.onmenit 6f the pctitioner.
.By TH. COURT :-This is a queftion -of fraud; and we
f:an perceive no juft reafon, why a creditor fhould not be exazlined to afcertain.whether, on tha.round, the petitioner ought

SUPREME COURT OF Pennfylvanla.

269

to be remanded. The evidence can never affe& the judgments; 1796.
nor be admi'tted, on any other occafion, to maintain the perfon- t
al intereft of the witnefs. Let him be fworn.
After a long oppofition, however, the petitioner was difcharged.
McKean, Dallas and S.Levy for the petitioner. -41. Levy,
Hallowell and Thomas for the creditors.

EWING

verfus M'NAIR.

J

UDGMENT was entered in this caufe on the Ift day of
September Term, 1796 ; and the plaintiff iffued a T6ltm
Fi. Fa. to Allegheny County, founded on a .Fi. Fa. to the flieriff of Philadelphia County, which was made returnable on the
!aft day of September Terni 1796, but had never been a~tually
taken out, though it was minuted on the roll. The Tfdlatuwn Fi.
Fa. being levied on lands, .E Tilghman now moved to fet the
writ afide, as being founded on a Pi. Fa. not legally or properly returnable.
But, BY" THE COURT :-TRlie prefent cafe appears manifeffly
to be incl uded in the words of the a& of Affembly, which declares, " that the laft day, as well as the firft day, of every
Teri, fhall be a common day of return in this Court, at either
of which periods any writs, original, mefne, brjudicial procefs,
&c. may be made returnable ; and that the writs and procefs
returnable on the laft day of the Term, flall be as valid and ef.
fe&ual in all cafes, and to all intents and purpofes, as if the
fame had been made returnable on the firft day of the Texin,"
3 Stdte Laws p6. 770. Dallas's Edition.
"Wedo not mean, however, to give any opinion at this time,
as to the effe& of fuch a proceeding in charging bail, or levying
upon lands, within the county, in wurhich the judgment was rendered
Rule refufed.

.11"rrb

