26

C

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

.1796" in which,- if fuch a writ could ever'have been maintained, pre-a
%'v'v.,cedents would moft certainly have been recorded.
BY THE COURT :-Great doubt and difficulty hive arifen in
this cafe, from the force of the arguments ufed by the counfel
for the defendants. As, therefore, the obje& of the plaintiff
may be fafely and effe&ually attained by a compromife, in which
the defendanits declare themfelves ready to unite, we wifh to
avoid an immediate decifion of the point of law, that has been
agitated.*
ROBERTS verfus CAY'S Executors.

M

/'ANY a&ions were brought, returnable to ,anuary Term
M. /] 1794, againft the defendants, as Execuitors of Gay, the
furviving partner of C/ow and Cay, whofe affairs were exceedingly deranged; and, on the ith ofJanuary 1794 (declarations having been previoufly filed in all the a6ions) rules were obtained,
- that the defendants plead as of this day, or fhew caufe to the
contrary, &c." The declarations were filed, and the rules obtained,'under a "fufpicion (affirmed upon oath) that judgments
would be conferred by the Executors, to other creditors, in preprejudice of-the feveral plaintiffs in thefe a&ions, which, it was'
agreed,' fliould all be governed by the decifion upon an argument in any one of them.
For the plaintiff, if it was contended by Thomas, that granting an imparlance (particularly where the fuit was by original,
fetting forth- the caufe of a6lion, and that, in the.prefent inftance,
is done by filing the declarations) was difcretionary, and matter
of favour, with the Court; and a variety of cafes were cited, in
which the imparlance was refufed, or granted only upon terms
that would prevent an injury to the plaintiff. , Skin. 2. P1" 2.
2 Shou. 310. pl. 321. 2 Wils. 381. 1 Salk. 186. Ibid.
8o. Gilb. H. C. P. 42.' 2 Iern. 62.. A rule to enlarge
the term for pleading, has, indeed, been exprefsly, refufed, unlefs Executors wbuld agree not to pleadjadgments confeffed fubfequent to the expiration of the term. i Bu/fl. 122. 8 A-lod.
, 308 But the principle on which Executors are allowed to retain debts due to themfelves, is, that they cannot fue; and not
being able to fue, fo as to obtain a preference in"that way, the
law gives it them in a n6ther. By a parity of reafoning, he who
firft fues, ought to be firft paid. 3 Bl. Com. .i 8. 19. Sibep.
T- 479- -Efp.. 252. Doug. 436. Cro. .E41. It istrue,
that counfel, argumentatively, ftate, in Doug. 436, " that although
' On-tbis intimation, the parties entered into an amicable partihioa
by deed, ".Yhich termiagted the sgotroyerfy.

SUPREME C

01 Penn .van;a.
oURT

though an Executor, or Adminftrator, cannot pay a debt of 1796.
the fame degree, after affion .brought and notice given of fuch
2&ion, unlefs there is judgment for the debt which he pays;
yet that he may pay fuch debt after judgment ; and he is intitled
to give it a preference by imparlances, and pleading dilatory
pleas to the firft aftion, ahd, in the meantime, confeffingjudgment for'the fecond demand" : But Buller, Jfflice, fays, "that
all legal means may be ufed to obtain a preference"; and as.
priority of fuit is a legal means, entitled to countenarice more
than any right of favoritifm on the part of exeLutors, the only
queltion is, whether the Court will, under the circumiftances of
the prtfent cafe, retfrain the exercife of that right, which muft
depend upon the favor of the Court, in granting imparlances,
and allowing dilatory pleas.
Moylan, for the dfehdants, having averred, that no fy tem
of favoritifin would be purfued ; but that, neverthelefs, the executors felt an equitable obligation to difcharge, in preference,
debts due from the teftator for loans of friendiip, and clerks,
or fervants, wages ;* proceeded to fhew, by numerous quotations, that the right of an execdtor to give a preference to any
creditor, of the fame degree, was .pofitive and unqualified.
lWentw .142.3 4.5" irVin. dbr. 269pI4. Sid. 21. Vaugh.
95. Lov. on Wils. 5.6. Doug. 436. Morg. Att. vade mecum. x96.
He analyfed the authorities cited for the plaintiff, and infifted,
that forhe of them were contradi&ory, each to the other; t.hat
fom6 of then were obiter dicta ; and that fome were decidcd in
aaions, whofe forms and principles were not applicable to the
prefent cafe: yet, that taken in the grofs, a candid expofition.
would reconcile them to the doarine, that wherever there was
no:covin or fraud, an executor may give a preference to a creditor ofrthe fame degree. It is true, that they prove, likewife,
the difcretionary power of the Court, to allow, or refuife, imparlances, according to the weight of the'reafons affigned: but,
taking into viev" the deranged ftate of the teftator's affairs, at the
time when the motion for pleading was made, there certainly
could not be a more. proper occafion, than the one now depending, for grantihig every poffible. indulgence to the executors.
At that time no affets were afcertained; and if the executors
could not plead fatisfaCtorily tien, the court will not compel
them to plead matter, which has fince occurred ; for,.if the rule
is made abfolute, it muft be in relation to the ftate of things, at
the period when the motion was made.
But fo far from precipitating the executors into a premature
plea, they are entitled, by a liberal and fair cniftruffion of the
J . ylan offered to figri an agreement that fuch preferences alone
fiould be given ; and the propolition, though not adopted, 'feemed t
be approved both by Court and Bar.

,262

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the*

X796. A& of AlTembly, to a delay of twelve months after the teftator'r
%v'" v.death, tha: they may afcertain the degAl priority of hig debts.
The a& of Affefiibly ,*having claffed debts in the order in which
Executors fhall be bound to pay them, adds that, neverthelefs,
c executors, or adminiftrators, fhall not be prevented from, or
damnified for difcharging the decedant's jult debts, as the fame
Lhall come to their knowledge, without regard to-the priority of
the fame, in payment, after the expiration of twelve months
from the time of the faid decedant's deceafe." If, then, twelve
months are allowed to fpecialty creditors, for giving notice of
their debts, to the executors, fo as t6 preferve the priority prefcribed by the law, it is an unreafonable and unjuft do&rine to
advance, that the executors fhall, before- the expiration of that
period, nay, at the very firtL term after the death of their tefltatork
be compelled to plead thofe fpeciaties, of which they may
hLve received no notice, but to which they are ifill bound to,
give a preference, in the courfe of adminiftration. The very
force of the expreffion, that the executors fhall not be damnifled,
if they make the payment after the expiration of twelve months,
proves that they would be. liable for any previous payment,
contrary to the legal rule of priority., There is no provifion of
this kind in the .Englf/ flatutes; for, in England, a fpecialty
creditor can only fecure his preference to fimple-contra& creditors by giviig'the legal notice of a fuit, in. the firft
inftance.
The reafon of the diverfity, however, ftrengthens the.conftruction contended for. While .Pennflvania was a province (and
the fa& exifts in a great degree, at the prefent day) the creditors of its inhabitants chiefly r~fided abroad ; and,'if executors
had been'compellable to pay fimple contraa debts, whenever iffue could be joined by the ordinary pra&ice of our courts; or
whenever a plea could be exa&ed in the manner now'propofed,
the whole of the aflets might be abforbed in fuch payments, before notice could be received of an'y preferable claims.. Hence
the neceffity of allowing twelve months for giving notice; an&
hence juftice requires that the executors fhould have the fame
period, for entering their pleas to a&ions on fimple contrats,
which they muft otherwife fatisfy at their own peril.
For the Plaintiff, in reply. The aa of Affhmbly"was not intended to embrace cafes, in which executors were compelled to.
make payments by a due courfe of law; but only cafes, in which
they voluntarily undertook to "difcharge the teftator's debts.
Before the paffing of the aat, an executor could never volunta-.
rily pay a fimple contrat debt, without taLing. an indemnificatiom
* The a& here referred to, has been repealed and fipplied, S cot
. zi.Edit.p. 527. It nay be found, however, in Galloway'4 EditA.
- eProvince Lws p...
See'z o.
h2a'.Edt'p.. 7 . (C)

SUPIMME COURT or Penltmyvan;ai

263

cion againft fpecialty creditors; and, it was only to obviate this 1796.
inconveniency, that the provifion was made, authorifing fuch .,-^j
payments, without regard to any priority, after the lapfe of
twelve months from the teftator's death. But the fallacy of the
oppofite conftruffion molt forcibly appears, when it is remembered, that executors or adminiftrators are required by law, to
make diftribution of the refliduum of the teftator's effe&s, among
his next of kin, at the end of a year; and yet, it is faid, that 'till
the end of a year, they cannot even be compelled to make payment of his debts. Again : the law requires, that adminiftrators (hall render their accounts to the regifter of wills, &c. within a year; and yet, if within the year, they are not compellable
to pay the debts, there can be no accounts to render.
By TiE COURT. There does not exiut a doubt in our minds,
about the genuine meaning of the a& of Affembly. It would
be attended with the molt inconvenient and pernicious confequences, to determine, that a creditor could not compel a payment from his debtor's effate, nor even bring a fuit againft th.
executors, for a period of twelve months. The order of paying debts, obvioufly refpeis voluntary, and not compulfory,
payments. Such was the confirueion coeval with the a( ; and
there has not, to this time, been a fingle departure from it.
With refpe& to the other ground of argument, we were in
hopes that fome compromife might have been effe ed. But,
we do not hefitate to declare, that although the Court has difcretionary power to grant, or to rzffufe, imparlances, we do not
think, that the circumftances of the prefent cafe would juftify
a fpecial interpofition, to compel the executors to plead at the
firlt
term', contrary to the ufual courfe of praftice. The executors have an unquefflonable right, generally fpeaking, to give
a preference to any creditor bf the fame degree ; and the preferences propofed to be given by the defendants, are certainly
n f a covinous, or illiberal nature.
The Rule difcharged.
Before the Court bad delivered their opinion on the principal
cafe, Ingerfdl fuggefted, as a collateral confideration, whether
Promiffory Notes, difcounted at the Bank of Pengj,''vania,were
placed on a footing with protelted Bills of Exchange, in point of
pmriztv of payment, by the following provifion in the i 3thfecion of
the A of Incorporation. "All notes or bills, at any time difcounted by the faid Corporation, flall be,'and they are hereby,
paced on the fame footing as foreign bills of exchange; fo that
the like remedy fliall be had for the recovery thereof againft the
drawer and drawers, indorfee and indorfors, and with lik~e effc6t,
except fo far as relates to damages, any law, .uftom, or ufage,
to the contrary thereof in anywife notwithilanding." 3 vol. Dall.
Edit.p. 330. Ingeifobloozrved, th,t prcvi ob fly to this provifion,
there

264
1

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

7796. there were two points of difcrimination between Promifory.
Notes and Bills of Exchange :-.ift. Promiffory Notes were taken by the indorfee, fubjedt to all the equitable circumftances,
to which they were fubjed in the hands of the indorfor. IDall.
.Rep.4 4 I. And 2d. Protefted Bills of Exchange were entiiled
to
a priority in payments by executors, or adminiR-rators. The
Lcgiflature meant, in the cafe of Bills and Notes, difcounted at
the Bank of Pennfylvania, to abolifh all 1iftin6tion between
thofe commercial in'ftruments ; and the expreffi(n of the ad' is
fufficiently comprehenfive to effeduate that obje.
But, it was anfwered,'by'Moylan, Tbomas, and

L..Levy, that

the A& of Affembly only applied to the remedy upon a Promiffory Note; and did not alter the nature and character of the
infkrument. The-exifting mifchief, intended to be removed,
was the right of fet-off, claimed by the drawer againft the indorfee; and even upon the words of the two adls, it was remarkable, that the priority is given by the firft
to protefled Bills
of Exchange; whereas the fecond places Promiffory Notes on
the fame footing as I4oreign Bills of Exchange.
Br THE CoulR. Though the queftion is not regularly before us, we have no obedion to intimate our opinion, that
Promiffory Notes are not entitled to the fame priority as Bills
of Exchange. The Ad of Affembly applies only to the cafe of
defalcation.
STILES,

Plf. in Er. verfus

RIT of Eiror.

DONALDSON.

To an adion of JDebt on a Bbnd, da-

VV

ted in Augfl 1774, the defendant pleaded payment, and
gave notice of afet-o.
The caufe was tried in the Common

Pleas of Philadelphia Copnty on the 1 th of November
1794,
9

when the Bond being proved, without any indorfement of
payment, for principal, or interef, the defendant, by way ofa
fet-off, offered evidence to iew, ' that after the execution of
the Bond, and before the commencement of the fuit, the Plaintiff had become indebted to him in a fum exceeding the amount
of the Bond, upon accounts ftill remaining unliquidated and
unfettled between them, as merchants, concerning the fales o"
merchandize made by the PlaintiffT, in parts beyond the fea, as
agent and fa6tor for the defendant." To the admiffion of this
evidence, the plaintiff obje&ed, that there v'as a lapfe of more
than 17 years, fince the date of the laft item of the accounts,
and no proof given of any fubfequent demand of the money
now propofed to be fet-off; and that the long acquiefcence. of
the defendant, as well as the pofitive bar of the 1tatute of limitations.

