CIRCUIT

Penvfylvania

COURT,

Diftrit.
April Term,

1792.

Prefent-W ILso-, BLAIR and PETERS,
COLLET Vctfuz

7uqicesr

COLLET.

HIS was - a bill in Equity, which flated the complainant to be afubjec7 of hib Britannic Majefly, and the Re-

ondent to be a citizen of Pemfy vania. The Refpondent in
his plea averrea, that the complainant was a citizen o Penil/5l-vania; and this plea, if true, deprived the Court of its jurifdiction, as the Federal Courts cannot (unlefs in fome particularly
fpecified cafes) take cognizance of controverfies between citizens
of the fame State. The queflion was argued on the 2 1it of April by Randolph and 8ejeant, in fupport of the bill, and by
M b.
Livy in fupport of the exception to the jurifdi&ion. It
then appeared, that the complainant was born in the .7e of
.Man, part of the Britib dominions ; but it was certified, by the
Mayor of Philadelphia, that on the 3 oth of Aprit 179 o , he had
taken the oath 6f allegiance to the State of PennJ3lvania, agreeably to an aia of the General Affembly, paled the I 3 th of
M,1rarch 1789. 2 FlPo. Dall. Edit. p. 677. founded on-the 42 fection of the old Conititution. x VoL p. 6o. in 4pp. It was, likew,ife, flewn by a certificate from the Colle&or of the Cuftoms of
the port of Philadel hia, that on the 5 th of November 179o, he
was commander oft/e Pigot, an American flip ; and the 6th fecton of the a& of Congrefo, for regiftering and clearing veffels(Ch
i x, paffed i September 1789.) provides, that no regifiry ihall be
made of any American fhip, until it is fwom (among other
things) that " the prefent mafter is a citizcn of the United
States."

CIRCUIT COURT, Pennfj'kValia Thfl&.

295'

In fupport of the plea, it was contended, that the power gi- _ 792.;
yen to the United States, was meant as a guard againft the nar- L.-Y-..

row regulations that'might, at 'any future period, be adopted
by the individual States, to. check the admiffion of aliens ; and
not as a fecurity againft the too eafy extenfion of the rights of
citizenfhip. This obje&" wouid, therefore, be moft effe&ually
attained, by leaving Eh( authority of the individual States unimpaired ; and as there is nothing exclufive in the nature of the
power, fo neither is their any thing exclufive in the manner of
vefting it in the Federal Government. Though " Cogrdfr
fliall have power to eftablifli an uniform rule of naturalization,"
A4rt, T.J. 8. it does not neceffarily follow, that each State of
the confederacy may not, likewife, exercife the power of adopting aliens upon its own terms. That an opinion prevails here,
in favor of the State jurifdi&ion, .muft be inferred from the
various laws, which Pewafjlvaaia, even fubfequent to the naturalization a& of Congrefs (paffed 26th of Afarch 179o) has
enaaed, refpe&ing the right that aliens may enjoy within her"
territory. 3 Vol. Dall. Edit. 9 183. 653. Nor is there any force
in the argument, that the jurifdition in Maritime and Admiralty
cafes is exclufively vefted in the FederalGovernment, without the
ufe of exclufive words ; for, thofe in their nature are exclufive,
belong appropriately to the national chararler. and arife .extraterritorially of any State ; whereas naturalization is merely a
municipal and domeftic concern.
In oppofition to the plea, it was urgea, that contemplating
the prefent fituition of the United States, the birth of the complainant had made him an alien ; and thai in order to change
the condition of alienage into, that of citizenfhip, the interpofition of a competent conftitutional and legiflative authority wa,
indifpenfable. This authority, throughout the United States, refides in the Federal Government alone ; for, the power of naturalization (which is given by the 8th fe&. of the ift Art. of
"the Conftitution) does of itfelf import exclufion. That one
member of the Union [hould be able to difturb all the reft, by the
introdu&ion of obnoxious characers, 1,as an evil to be prevented,
and no effe6tual mode could be adopted to obviate the incofiveniences of different fyftems and regulations in different States,
flhort of giving to Congpef the exclufive power of eftabiiing ai.
uniform rule of naturalization. "Exclulive words were not neceffary in this cafe, any more than in the cafe of Admiralty and
Maritime jurifdition, which is, neverthelef, allowed to be exclufively veaed in the General Government without the .ufe of
fitch words. If, therefore, (Jongrfihad the exciufive power to
admit citizens, that power being exercifed by the a6 of the
26th 11larch 1790, the naturalization, under an a& of the Legiflature of Pewiylvania, w.s a mere nullity, and the complainant remains a fubjeat of the Brit crown.

-296

1792.

CAsts ruled and adjudged in th -

, BYM
.TIE COURT :-The queftion, now agitated, depends tia.
on another queftion ; whether the State of iennvfyhania, fine

the -26th of March 1790 (when the a& of Congrefs waspaffed Y

has a right to naturalize an alien ?. And this mult receive its
anfwer from the folution of a third queftion; whether, according
to the conftitution of the United States, the authority to naturalize
is exclufive, or concurrent? We are of opinion, then, that
the St.ftes, individually, ftil enjoy a concurrent authority upon
this fubje6 . but that their individual authority cannot be exercifed, fo as to contravene the rule eftablifhed by the authotity of
the Union. The obje&ion founded or the word unjform,-and
the'
arguments ab. inconvenienti, have been cariied too far. , It is§
likexife, declared by the Conflitution (art. i.f 8.) that all.
duties, impofts and excifes fhall be -wiform throughout the United States; and yet, if exprefs words of exclufiofi had nom
been inferted, as in a fubfequent part of the farne'article (f. zo.)
the individual States would ftill, undoubtedly have been at -li-berty,, without the confent of Congr-, to1ar=d col!e& duties
and impoils. Again ;-when, it is faid, tlrat one State otTwht
not to be privileged to admit obnokiou citizens, to the injury
of another, itlfhould be recollecqed, that the State which communicates the infection, mutt herfelf bd firil infc&ed ; and il"
this, as in all other cafes, we may be affured, that the principle
of felf-prefervatiown ill inculcate every reafonable precaution.
IThe true reafon for invefting Congrefi
with the power of naturalization has beert a'ffignedat the Bar :--It was to guard agaift
too narrow, inilead of too liberal, a niode of conferring the
rights of citizenfbip. Thus, the individual States' cannot ex..
elude thofe citizens, who.have been adopted by the UnitedStatesx
but they can adopt. citizens upon eafier terms, than thofe which
Congrefi inay deem it expedient to impofe.
But the a&l of Congrefi itfelf, furnifhies a fitrong proof that th
power of naturalization is concturent. In the concluding pro*ifo, it is' declared, cc that no perfon heretofore profcribed
bk an r State, ihall be admitted a citizen as aforefaid,, xcept I
.
an ar of the Legijfatixre of th State, in which fuch perfon
was,
profcribed."' Here, we find, that Congre has notonly circum-,
fcribed the exercife of its own authority, but has recognized the'
authbrity of a State Legiflature, in one cafe, to admit a citizen.
of the United.States ; which could not bc done in any cafe,
if
the power of naturalization, either by its own nature, or by themanner of its being veilted in the Federal Government, Was arv
exclufivc pqwer.
Upon the whole, the Court think that the plea to- the Jurif-.'
di&ion has been maintained ; and, therdfore,
"
The Bill mtrt be difinifred. ..
Iti renm.rkable that the argpment- ia this- ca

tdrzed ctirely-

uipar

