CASES ruled and adjudged in the

1759.

Ap]ril Term, 1789.

HOARE verfs ALLEN;

and Tertenants.

rjPHIS was a Scire Facia; on a mortgage giveri on the 4 th

December, 1773, for fediring the payment of £r6,ooo,
fierling, with intereft. It-yas tried at Cbefer, Ni Prius,on the
4 th May, 1789, before the CHrEF JUSTICE, ATLEE, and BRYAN,
,7u.flice; when it appeared, that the plaintiff was aBritj/hfubjet,
refident in London ; that Anoi Strettle wvas his att6mey in faft, at
the time 6f the execution of the mortgage, and after: but it
did not appear, whether he continued to a& as fuch fubfequent
to the war. He refided'in the ftate till his death, which was aThe queftion that was made in,thisbout
caufe was, whether intereft fhould run during the war ?
The defendant-,contended, that when-two independent nations
are. at war, the debt is fufpended, and no intereft can be demanded. -That all intercourfe was at an end, and a remittance
could not be made. All trading with endmies is illegal. Park.
.Ins
270.

P. 2 frahn. 31. 2

Magens. 257. If not fo at Cozmorr

Law, the refolutions of Congrefs made it criminal. That a ftatute may repeal a covenant to do a thing that is lawful before:
And, a war is equivalent to an af of Parliamentin this cafe. That
-where the law preverted the piyment of the principal, it never
required payment of intereft, as in the cafe of a garnifhee. That
-whether the contra&s be exprefs, axd in writing, or merely by
parol, *the conftruftion muft- be the fame" For equity will im-ply the exception, though not expreffed. Thus in Pollakd
erfux Shafer, - the war excuied the ndn-performance of an exprefs contra&. Dall.Rep. 210. So in the cafe of the way going
crop. Dougl. 19o. So in cafe of a divifion of a rifk in a poll- cy. 3. Burr. 1240. They finally urged, that this point had
heen determined in the cafe of O/borne verfri; Afflin, which was
the cafe of" a bond; and there thd Court determined; that no
intereft fhould be paWi during the war.
The plaintiff urged, that though debts nmight 1e fufpended
during the war, yet they Tevivod on the peace,.ind" were not ex;tWnguifhed.- That; although the Court determined the cafe of
O/u rne .e)fus M Yin ; yet they diftinguifbed that cafe from the

prefent, by urging th.t that. cafe went on the principle of the
plaintiff's .

SUPREME COURT oF

em lvana

' u

103

plaintiff's being in England, and having no attorney here : And 1789.
that while he had an agent here, which was until 1778, -the in- %
tereft-run, and only 3 1-2 years intereft was ftruck off from the
plaintiff's demand.* That in the prefent cafe Strettle was the
attorney : That a tender or payment to him would have been
good ; and that fuch payment did not in any manner contravene
the refolution of Congrefs. That payment in bills of exchange
would be lawful at any time, and could not in any manner aid
the arms of the enemy. That this cafe was different from that
of a bond: For the very land mortgaged, was the confideration
of the debt ; and the defendants were a&ually in the enjoyment
of the profits of the land during the whole war.
The defendant, in reply, contended that the war was a revocation of Strettl/s authority ; a:nd that which another cannot do
by himfelf, he cannot do by attorney : That even his power to
fue during the war was gone.
BY THE COURT :-This a&ion is brought on a mortgage for
i 6,ooo, payable on 4 th December, 1774. No fuit could be
brought on the mortgage before the 4 th December, 1775. Before that period, the war commence.d, and on the ioth september,
1775, the Congrefs prohibited the exportation of commodities,
&c. to Great Britain, or any of her dominions. This was obligatory on their conftituents, and it became unla'iful to. make
any remittances after this to the enemy. During a war all civil
a6tions between enemies are fufpended ; debts are fufpended
alfo, but reftored by the peace. For the term of 7 1-2 years,
vi6;. from the ioth September, 1775, to the ioth March, 1783.
the defendant could not have paid this money to the plaintiff,
who was an alien enemy, without a violation of the pofitive laws
of this country, and of the laws of nations. - They ought not,
therefore, to fuffer for their moral cqndu6, and their fubmifflon
to the laws.
Intereft is paid for the ife or forbearance'of money. But irg
the cafe before us, there could be no forbearance ; becaufe th6
plaintiff could not enforce the payment of the principal ; nor
coald the defendants pay him, confiltenit with law ; nor could
they pay it without going into the enemy's country, where the
plintiff was. -Where a perfon is prevented by law, from pay'ing the principal; he fhall not be compelled to pay intereft dur'ing the prohibition, as in tl safe of a Garnifihee, in a foreign
attachment. It is-urged, that a remittance-in bills of exchange furniffied
the enemiy with no money. Yet, it is clear, that it would furthr enemy iith the means of carrying on the war, within ti
laifi
bowells
BY ;HE 'CounT :-There was no proof before the Court tbat he
was an alien enemy : He had lived lierp many years, and. went to
England before th'e war.

104

CAsE-s ruled

and adjudged in the

1789. bowells of the country, without 'bringing any money into it.
Y
It is well known, that the bills drawn by the Britjh army were
the principal bills that were bought and fold ; thofe drawn by
Arnerican citizens were generally protefted.
It has been faid, that it might have been paid to 8trettle : But
that depended upon his pleafure, whether he chofe to a6 as attomey or not.
I have fearched for precedents both in the civil law, and in the
books of reports ; but could find none. We, therefore, determine on principle and analogy, .and are unanimoufly of opinion,
that the plaintiff is not entitled to iritereft from the i oth Setenber, 1775, to i oth March, 1783 ; but during the reft of the time
he muft be allowed full intereft.
The Jury adopted the principles of the charge ; but ftruck
off 8 1-2 years intereft.*
June

Since the decifion of this cafe, the abatenient of intereft, during
the war, in all a&ions for the recovery of British debts, antecedently
due, has been the uniform pra&ice in the Courts of Pennsylvania ;
but -it has been alledged, that in one of the Circuit Courts a different
rule has been adjudged. Ant. Foxcraft et al. v. vagle. It appears,
however, that Mr..Yefferson, when Secretary of State, ably maintained, qn behalf 6f the Federal Government, a doftrine fimilar to
that expreffed by the Court, in the above report; agreeably to the
fubjoined extra& from his celebrated reply to Mr. Hammond, the
BritishMinifter Plenipotentiary.
" The reafons on which the denial of interef it grounded shall be
fRated fumojarily, yet fufficiently tojuftify the integrity of the judge,
andeven to induce a prtfumption, that they might be extended to that
of his fcience alfo, were that material to the prefent object.
" S. 54. The treaty is the text of the law in the prefent care, and
its words are, that there shall be no lawful impediment to the recovery of bona fide debts. Nothing is faid of interest on thofe debts : And
the fole queftion is whether, where a debt is given, interest thereoi
-flows from the general principles of the law ? Interea is not 'a part
of the debt, but fbnething added to the debt, by way of damage for
the detention of it. This is the definition of tIV( English lawyers
themfelves, who fay, ' Intereft is recovered by way ofdamages(ca.)
ratione detentionisdebiti." 2 Salh. 6 .z, 623. Formerly all intereft
was confidered as unlawful, in every country of Europe: Itis flill A.

in Roman Catholic countries, and countries little commerdial. From
this, as a general rule, a fcw fpecial cafes are excepted. In I>-ance
particularly the exceptions are thofe of minors, marriage portions, amd
money, the price of lands.- So thoroughly do their laws condemn the
allowance of intereft, that a party who has paid it voluntarily, may recover it back again whenever he pleafes. Yet this has never bcen taken

upas a grofs, and flagrantdenial of jufticeauthorifiug uational complaint
againif
Os ccountof the detentiox ofthe de.
. (a.)

