t3

ruled and adjudged in the
z79r.
By THE COURT :-The objedfion is, in our opinion, iatal tcr
v
the a6lion. The a6t of Schenkboufe, in re-delivering
the bill to
the.drawer, and defiring a remittance for the goods, muft operate
as a legal extinguifhment of the bill. ft wasfent by the
'ants as payment ; Scbenkboufe refufed to receive it in thatdefend-.
and, accordinglyi returned it to the dkawer. From thatlight;
moment
CAES

the bill was, in effea, cancelled I and 8cbenkhoufe
not afterwards negociate the fecond bill$ fo as to fubjea could
the defendants to an a&i6n upon it. The remedy of the real
plaintiff, muft, therefore, be founded on the original contra&l;
and
as we underftand that an a6tion in that form is now depending,
the principal point of the corjtroverfy may be decided
in that
"without any expence or inconvenience.

On this opinion the plaintifffuffered a non-fuit.
Schenbouse v. Gibbs, et al. The aaion referred to in
the Re.;

port, was afterwards tried in :fanuary Term 1794, before the
of the Supreme Court; and the only queftion agitated was, Judges
whether
the defendants ivere liable for the amount of the bill reitted
to the
vlaintiff, unde- the. circumflances above flated ?
Coxe and Ingersollinfifted, that the defendants, by mingling
the
intereft of Sce&nkb6usewitli the interef ofothers, fo
to deprive him
of the poffeflion and immediate remedy on Basse Was
Sqyer's bill, had
renuered themfelves liable for the lofs, that had happened,
notwithflanding the general authority given to them, to make remittances
in
good bills of exchange. x AlA. 172, A34. Bull. _N.P. . . Cow
p;4 8o.
42 3
227- 8. 10. Mod. o9.
Ra-wle and Dallas contenjed, that the defendants had acqed
bonca
jde, within the fpirit of their authority; and
had done fo- Schenhhouse precifely as they did for themfelves. Nothing
bught to
be exa~ted from a fa&or than reafonable vigilance and mote
firi6t fidelity.
It is ufual .that there fbould be one faaor, for feveraI merchants
; and
if thevendee of all their goods fail, they muft bear the lois.
xc. Mod.
09. M0olloy 493- 494. CoP.4 . 496. V'r. Abr.7.
-Pricev. -Ralstoni
ant. p.6o. Portenerwould always79be regarded as atruflee for the
according to.their proportions, and ScbenRhouse might make parties,
him account.
The Court left the caufe to the Jury, who found a Verdif fot
the defendants.

alurw

