CAs s ruled and adjudged in the

194

1792. It appears, therefore, to be a part of their contra&, that inte.
V%.dreft fhould commence, at the expiration of the fix months credit.
Verdi& accordingly.
STILLE verfi" LYNCH.*

T

HIS cafe was an a&ion brought by the indorfee of a

promiffory note, againft the drawer ; and it was contended, on the part of the defendant, that the note, having
been given without any confideration, was fubje& to the fame
equity in the hands of the indorfee, to which itwas fubjea in
the hands of the indorfor, the original payee. i Dall. Rep.
441. To eftablifh the defe& of confideration, the teftimony
of Lynch, the indorfor and original payee (who had fince obtained his certificate as a bankrupt) was offered :
But it was ruled by Ta COURT, that Lynch could not be a
witnefs in this cafe ; as he was offered, in fa&t, to invalidate his
own inflrument. x Term. Rep. 599.
CUPISINO ver'US PE-REZ.

rpHIS was an affion brought againft the Defendant, owner
the Brig Santl/ina Trinidad, for money lent to the
Tof
captain in the Havanna, who gave the plaintiff the following
note:
ccReceived of S. Cupino two hundred dollars for the victualling and expences of the brigantine, which furn I will pay
at firft fight, in the name of the owner Don 7os.de Auguire PeI receive, mortgaging the
rez, who is in Philadelphia;which cafrl
freight, the brigantine and her rigging, as the faid Santiago has
lent me the above fum, for the advantage of the veffel at Has-anna, June 6th, 1788.

(Signed)
n hNarifco Sanchez y Serma."

On her arrival at Philadelphia, the brig was libelled on this
hypothecation (as it was called) in the Addmiralty, and after
hearing, the libel was difmiffed. It appeared, that the captain
had goods, his own property, on board; and that he might have
procured money from the Intendant of the place, without pleding the veffel.
Heatly,
decided at Philadelphia, Nisi Prius, held in
' This cafe was
.Mvemnber 1791, before the CuImF JUSTICZ1 SxIPrPE and Bi.&FORD) .7UStCCS.

