SPTREME CdURr. OF PeonfYvania.
1793.
DUNCAN

B

verfuls W.ALKER.

yan aal of Affembly; paffed the 21ft of December, 1784

.lB (2 Vol. p. 235. f

9. xo. Dail. Edit.) the right of pre-

emption to lands lying between Lycsmn:g creek en the eaf ,
and Pine creek on the weft, &c. was fecured to certain fettlers
and their legal reprefndatives. A perfon of the name of CGtwz-

bell, being a fettler within the defcription of the a&, died in
178j, before the a&t was paffed. It appeared that the heir at
law had fold the premifes, part of the pre-emptive diftri&, to
the plaintiff; and the admjiniftrators of Campbdl.had fold them
to the defendant; and both plaintiff and defendant had taken
out warrants within the limited time, though neither had obtained a patent. Hence the queftion arofe at the trial, and was
referved for the opinion of the Court; whether, the right of
pra-emption granted in the terms of the a6, fhould veft in the
real, or the perfonal, reprefentatives of the grantee ?
After argument, THE COURT were of opinion, that by the
words " legal reprefentatives," heirs, or alienees, were to be
underftood ; for, though the expreflion might, in the abftra&,
appear equivocal and ambiguous,. it was explained by the

febje7 matter ; and land, ex vi ternini, importing real eftate,

the legal reprefntztative muft, in legal contemplation, be the
heir, and not the adminiftrator.
Judgment for the plaintiffaccordingly.
FITZALDEN

JN

56eirf
LEE.

ERROR. The plaintiff and defendant having fome Contro.verfy about a traa of land, in Luzerne county, agreed to
try the right to the poffeffion in a fumiary manner, in the Court
,of Common Plear, and the proceedings were drawn up, as if it
had been a plaint under the landlord and tenant a&.# The Ju-"
ry having awarded pofl~ffion to Lee, (the defendant in error,)
judgment was rendered for him ; and a writ of poffeflion wasiffued, by virtue of Wvhich Fitzalden was turned out, and Lee
put into pofleffion. On error being brought, .Ttgeifoll admitted
that he could not fupport the judgment ; but contended, that,
as this proceeding was a matter of mutual confent and agreement, the Court ought not to aid the plaintiff in error to get back
the poffefion of the land.
See i Volk

ali Edit. p. 6i7.

