19

AsS

ruled and adjudged in te

1792. the lands mortgaged ; and that the refidue of the eflate fhould

~ be difcharged.

After argument feveral times, the Court-now
delivered their opinion as follows :
BY THE COURT :--We are of opinion that all the land*
which were the property of James AI'Connaughy, deceafed,
(upon which we underftand the fheriff has already levied) fhall
contribute, according to the value of the feveral te'ads, to pay
off and difcharge the debt, intereft, and cofis in this afion. We
confider real property in Pennfylvaniaas affets for the payment
of debts ; and it is always, in cafe of the 4eficiency of perfonal
property, to be applied to difcharge fuch debts. It does not appear
from the Will of gannet WM'Connaughy that her, intention was,
that Mrs. Darlingtonfhould take the land devifed to her cum onere.
It is, however, equally fubje&ed to the payment of a proportion
of the debt with the other lands of ames cCGonnaughy,remaining
undifpofed of. Mrs. Darlinoton claims as a fpecific devifee ; the
refiduary legatees cannot be confidered as fuch. To charge the
lands devifed to them with a rateable part of the debt., would
not difappoint the true intention of either of the Wills ; but ta
charge the lands devifed to Mrs. Darlington would evidently
produce that effe&.
We are, therefore, of opinion, that all the real efltat of
Jame]is MConnaughy fhould rateably contribute.
BRADroRD, Jtlice, having been of counifel in this caufe,
took no part in its decifion.
WALKERC'S

Appeal.

NVGERSOLL moved for the confirmation of the decree of
the Orphans' Court of Northuhberland, given the 26th
farc, 1792, from which (as it appeared by acertificate he produced) an appeal had been entered., But THE COURT, finding
that there was no copy of the proceedings lodged with the prothonotary, refufed to.receive the motion : And by
SHIPPEx, gujice :-The regular method of bringing up the

record is by certiorari; and nothing elfI can flay the proceed.ings below.
SIEREDINE varfus GAUL..

Tr]HIS was an a&ion of debt on a bond, dated the r 3 th
_ March, 1787. The bond recited 'that the obligee, Paul
Sh,-redine, had given a letter of attorney to the obligor, .Martin
Oall, to iecover a legacy duo to him in Germany ; and the
cQndition

