44
"

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

r788. ment, the property was for the benefit of all Loyer's creditors;
and that, although his fa&or might have a lien, the vendee of
the fa&or certainly had none. That, in ftri&nefs, perhaps, the
aflignees of Loyer had the right to the
Jtlas, or the price for
which it fold ; but that certainly, at the time of the fale, it
was nor the property of Loyer, and, if not velted in the aflignees,
it. muft have belonged to Boinod by virtue of fome fpecial lien :
And that, upon the whole, the plaintiff was entitled to recover,
though he was anfwerable over to the aflignees.
Verdi& for the Plaintiff.

Aug uf Sittings, 1790.

BOWEN verfluX DOUGLASS.

HE Plaintiff had taken out a fubpwena, returnable to Drcember term laft, for two witneffes, who lived in Montgomery County; but as they did not then appear, an attachment,
dire&ed to the Sheriff of' Montgomery County, was iffued, returnable to the fucceeding March term ; when, likewife, default
was made in the appearance of the witneffes ; and the caufe
was continued on a rule for 'trial at the next term or Non Pros.
Anotherfubpoena had been taken out, returnable this day, on
which the caufle was marked for trial ; but it proved as ineffec'.
tual as the preceding writs.
Under thefe circumftances, Levy, for the Plaintiff, moved to
p6ftpone the trial. He ftated (and it was not denied by the oppofite-counfel). that an application-on his part to take the depofitions of the witneffes had been refufed: And he read a letter
from the Sheriff of Montgomery, to fhew that an attempt had
been made to ferve the attachment upon the witneffes ; a certificate from the do&ors to prove that one of the witneffes was
fick 5 and a certificate from difinterefted and credible perfons
to prove that the othe witnefs was out of the way. x. Dall.
Rep. 25 1. chlojfer v. Lehel-.
McKean, for the Defendant, obje&ed to the poftpqnement;
and infifted, that the rule for triaI or Non. Proa, ought to be enfoiced

Pbiadelphia COURT

OF

45

COMMON PLEAS.

forced, as the Plaintiff, having negleaed to iffue a fecond attachment, had not done every thing in his power to procure
the attendance of the witneffes.
But, BY THE COURT:-It is queftionable, whether the
A& of Affiembly empowers us to iffue writs of attachment
into another County; and there are other modes of proceeding, equally efficient, and clear of any doubt. It is unneceffary, however, to enlarge at prefent on this topic; as
the Plaintiff has evidently done all in his power to procure the
attendance of the witneffes; and the refufal of his overture to
take their depofitions, is a ftrong additional circumflance in his
favor. The caufe muft, therefore, be continued, fubje& to the
rule for trial at the next term, or Non Pros: And, in the mean
time, we dire&, on our own authority, a rule to be entered for
taking the depofitions of infirm witneffes de bene e; to be read
in evidence upon the trial, in cafe of death, or inability to attend. To that extent only, however, do we grant the rule;
for, ve think it would be going too far to add, that the depofitions ihall be read, in cafe the witneffies depart from the State.
for the ufe of REF
eu
et aL

INLIS,

,E

or
INGLIs's Executors.

HIS was an a&ion of debt, to recover a legacy of fi5e,
Twhich Samuel Inglis had beqtieathed to his brother George
Inglis, the nominal Plaintiff, by his laft will and teftament, bearing date the x2th of Auguft 1781. The defendants pleaded ift.
Payment; 2d. .Nitdebent.
The circumitances of the cafe were thefe : The tefator died
in the beginning of Sept. 1783; and George Inglis, being in an
embarraffed fituation, obtained a friendly loan from' Mr. Coxe, of
xoo dollars, and afligned his legacy under his brother's will to
that gentleman on the Sth of April 1-784, in truft, that ifir. Coxe
Thould reimburfe himfelf, and pay over the balance to the lega.;
tee; who acknowledged, at the time of the tranfaaion, that
there was fome difficulty in getting the money from the executors. Accordingly, when Mr. Coxe applied a few days afterwards to one of the executors, in behalf of George Jug/is, fome
doubts were expreffed to him, whether the legacy would be paid
at all; as G. Inglis was confiderably indebted to the eflate of
the teftator, and other perfons lately concerned with him in
trade; but upon Mr. Coxe's difclofing the nature of his bond,
and of the affignment which' he had taken to indemnify himfelf,
the executor, in terms of great caution and exprefsly for the
family honoi, promifed to pay as much as would fatisfy Mr.
-Cxe's

1790.

