Philadelphia CouRT OF COMMON PLEAS.
the ation was inifituted, determined to take advantage of the 1790.
defalcation. The a& of Affembly meant only to impote colts on '.s'the plaintiff ; where the defendant a6tually owed no more than
Cio, at the 'time of bringing the a6tion ; which was net the cafe
before the Court. i Vall. Rep. 308.
On the x itk of September, the Prefident delivered the opinion
of the Court.
SHIPPEN, Prefident: The queftion to be decided is, which
of the parties fhall pay the coils, the plaintiff having recovered
lefs than ten pounds. The ,C a&t provides, that where the perfon fuing fhall obtain a verdiat or judgment for debt and damages, which, without colts of fuitThall not amount to more than
/,5. (not having filed an oath or affirmation, before the iifuing
of the writ, that he truly believed the debt due, or damage fuftained, exceeded that fum) le fhall not recover any colts. Tile
a&t extending the jurifdition of Jultices to cafes not exceeding'
i o refers to all the provifions of the preceeding law.
The intent of the Legiflature was to prevent the bringing actions in this Court, for debts within the cognizance of the Juftices, by impofing the payment of colts on the plaintiff, unlefs
he had previoufly filed an affidavit, that he believed his demand
exceeded the fpecified fum. This provifion, however, muff be
confined to the plaintiff's own demand, and not extended to
the cafe of fet-offs, which the defendant may, or may not, at
his pleafure, defalc. The demand in the prefent cafe, was
oftenfibly abovelio ; though it was in the power of the defrndant either to reduceit, or.not, by fetting up his counter
claim. The plaintiff could not, therefore, fue before a juftice,
becaufe the defendant might there lie-by ; and if afterwards
he was liable to be defeated in the Common Pleas, he would,
in fa&-, be punifhed in cofts, for reforting to the only Court,
in which his aftion could be maintained.
Wherever, therefore, an action is brought for a debt above
£ o,-and tie amount isreduced below that fum, by a fet off, we
ihink the plaintiff ought not to be charged with' the cofs.
Judgment for plaintiffs with colts.
IHOWELL, et a. vefus WOOLrFORT.-

TN this cafe the fherift had levied on a houfe and lot by virtue

j f a Fi. Fa. ; and an inqueft was held, which declared the
re;nts of the eftate fufficient to pay the debt in feven years :,but
ii the return to the Fi. Pa. it was ftated, that the defendant had
only a life.eftate in the premifes. i State Laws. p." 6. 49. So.
, On a motion made by S. Levy, to quaflithe inqueft, th point
fubniitted to the confideration of the Court, was, Whether an
ivqueft ought to hav been, held on a liffe efat¢c, under he pro4z.
itI6U

76

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in, The

1790. vifionin the a& of Affembly, that if real iftate taken in execu. 'v- .~ tion was found fufficient to pay the debt in 7. years, it fmould

not be fold ?
Bal'fon, for the defendant, faid, that the (fueftion was, in
fat, whether a life. eflate could .e extended under the a& of
Afffembly, or under the law of Elegit in England; and Whether
the former refe-red tothe prafice under the latter P He urged
that the advantages and difadvaiitages involved in the difeuffion,
were equal ; for, if, on the one haial, a life eftate was liable to
be fuddenly deftroyed ; on the other hand, that confideration
would particularly affct the price, and it might be fold on the
extent, for a mere trifle, though the tenant fliould fuTyive for many 'years. It is proper, therefore, that the ftria, terms of the
ai fhould govern the decifion of the Court. By the firft a&
that touches the fubje&, it is provided generally, - that all lands
and houfes whatfoever within this government hall be liable to
fale upon judgment and, execution obtained againft- the defen-'
dant, the owner, his heirs, execitors, and adminiftrators, where
no fufficient perfonal eftate :is to be found :" But this- general
authority is refirained by the fecond a&, which declares, " that
no fuclh fale mhall be made of lands, tenements, or hereditaments,
which fhall or may yield yearly rents or profits beyond all expences
fufficient within the fpace of feven years, to pay or fatisfy, the
debts and damages, with cofts of fuit; but that all thofe lands,
&c. fm-all by virtue of the execution be delivered to the.party-obtaining the fame, until the debt or damages, be levied by reafonable extent, in the fame manner and method as lands are delivered upon .Elegitsin Engand."
The law of England refpefing the writ of Elegit bing thus
exprefsly recognized and adopted, it only remains to fliew, that
,an eftate for life, may be extended by Elegit 5 and that is provcd from the paffage in 4 Black. Con. 48. 4-19. where it is
laid down, that " if the goods are not fufficient, then the moiety or one half of thedefepdant's freehold lands, whether held
in his own name, or by any other in truft for him, are alfo,to
be delivered to the Plaintiff; to hold 'till out of the rents and
profits thereof the debt be levied, or 'till the dejendant'. intero
e expired: as,. 'till the death of defendant, if he be tenant fo
-li/e, or in tail." It is to be remarked, be.fides, that if the tenant
for.life dies, before tHe debt is-paid, the plaintiff has ftifl a remedy over upon any other property of which he was peffeffed.
S. Lev,,, for the plaintiff. The flieriff is authorifed to bold an
inqueft, wherever he takes real eftate in execution; but when the
eftate is of this tranfient and precarious kind, it cannot be deemed within the intentiob of the" Legiflature, in making the provifion for. deliverffig inflead of felling eftates, whofe rents. are capAble of paying the debt in feven years. Thefrfl af of Affemiibly

Pbilade/phia COURT op ComomN PLPAs.

7

bly, being in derogation.of the common law,-ought to bd ftri&ly -1790.
confirued. It does n6 t dire& an inqueft to be held ; but gives a
general authority to levy upon all lands, and, of courfe, a power
to fell at once, all the defendant's eftate in the premifes. The
fecond a& does not repeal, but only alters the preceeding one, by
dire&ing an inqueft to be held, where real eftate is taken in execution. It does not, however, defcribe the particular eftates on
which the inqueft fhall pafs ; and the inconveniences of admitting it in the cafe of life eftates, are infurmountable.
After confideration, the Prefident delivered the opinion of the
Court, to the following effe&.
SHIPPEN, Prefident.-The queftion is whether an eftate for
life can be taken in execution and delivered to the plaintiff, upon return of an inqueft, that the profits are fufficient for paying
the debt in feven 'years ? On a fair conftru&ion of the a& of
Afl-mbly, we do not think the Legiflature intendedi that an eftate for life fhould be delivered to the plaintiff, in fatisfa&ion of
his debt. The general intereft, and of confequence, the feptennial value, are fo precarious, that they could nor have been in
contemplation; in making a pofitive provifion, that the eftate
Thould be delivered until the plaintiff's debt ispaid. Befides, if the
Legiflature had fo intended, a provifion would furely, have been
added, to fupply any deficiency, in cafe of a failureof the eftate,
before the difcharge of the debt ; as, in another cafe, the fame a&
efp~cially provides, that, if the valuation of the land delivered to
lhe plaintifftowards fatifa&ion of his debt fhall fall fhort, he may
have another execution againft the defendant's body, lands, or
goods, for the refidue.
We are, therefore, of opinion, tlhat' an eftate for life taken in
execution, may be fold, without holding an inqueft on its value : And, confequently, that the inqueft, in the prefent cafe,
muff: be qualled.

O loler Sefions, 1790.

SHARPE

T

.veifuxr

THATCHER.

"HIS was a certiorarito remove the judgment given.ini this
I
cafe by Juftice Wharton. On a motion made by Serjtant to
reverfe the judgment, it appeared that P.,atcher, the prefent defendant, had originally fued Shar.e, the plaintiff, before Jultice
coatex,

