8

I CASts ruled and adjpdged in the

1790. circumftances, as ought to difcharge them from their obligation, the price of the Negro was, in that view of the evidence,
the proper meafurd of damages ; which, if accepted by the mafter, will in equity, and perhaps by operation of law too, emancipate the Negro; he having been a party to the Homine relegiando, and a full fatisfa&ion, equal to his value,-made by his
fureties for hiim.

t.'Y-..

RuE, .VerfU$

MITCHELL.

T

HIS was an affion of flander ; for pronouncing the words
fet forth by-the declaration, irthe following form, after
the general introduaion and averments; refpefing the plaintiff's good fameand charafer: "That the defendant publiffied,
then and there, the following falfe, fcandalous, lying; Engilb
wb'rds, of -the plaintiff, in the hearing, &c. to wit, You
(him the faid plaintiff, meaning) have taken a falfe oath, before
fquire Ru.yh, (meaning that the faid plaintiff had committed the
crime of perjury, in a certain oath, bythe faid plaintiff, tlhen lately
taken, before William Rtjh, Efq. one of the Juftices of the
Peace, &c. in and for the City and County of Philadelphia,'ina
caufe before the faid Juftice, depending) and I (himfef the faid
defendant meaning) can prove it. By reafon whereof, &c."
It 'appeared, on the trial of the caufe, that the oath in queftion was voluntarily taken by the plaintiff, in order to fatisfj
the defendant upon a controverted fa&, involved in the fuit
depending before the Juftice, and in which the fituation of the
prcfentparties was reverfed : Mitchell, being then the plaintiff,
and Rue, -the defendant. There was a verdi& for the plaintiff,
damages ; -but the caufe was again brought before
with
the Court, on a motion in arreft of judgment, which was founded on two grounds: if. That the words charged in the declaration, did not import perjury, in a legal acceptation of their
meaning ; and therefore did not, in themfelves, independent of
any injurious confequence to the plaintiff, render the fpeaker
liable to an adfion at law. And, 2d. That the oath does not appear, in the declaration, to have been of a nature, that by
taking it the party could commit the legil crime of perjury.
I..M'Kean. 7. B. in fupport of the motion, obferved, that
ations of flander ought not to be encouraged ; and that they
had hitherto been ftri&ly confined to cafes, which endanger a
man in law ; which exclude him from fociety ; which impair
the eiercife and benefit of his trade or profefllion ; 'or, which
may affe& magiflrates, or other perfons, employed in public
trufls. There is no fpecial damage laid in.the declaration; and
t4

Phlddelhia CoURT Olt CoMMoN PLEAS.

59

to alledge, that a man has forfworn himfelf generally, is not 1790.
aetionable ; becaufe he may be forfworn in common converfatiQn ; or, it ny be an expreflion of mere pffion andanger.
4. CO iS. b.nor flhall it be intended to refer to a. cafe Nhciz
perjury may be committed. i Corn. Dig. 192.
II. But, in the next place, the oath rhuft appear to have been
a lawful one, adminiftered in the courfe of a judicial proceeding, upon a matter material to the iffue on trial, a Buf/i. 15 o.
The oath, in queftion, was merely a voluntary affidavit , and
thai, too, taken by a man in his own caufe ; which can never
judicially be allowed: The Juftice could not have compelled
him, and ought not to have permitted him, to take it. i Hawk.
P. C. 174-5. 4 Bac. Abr. 484. For that caufe alone,, the
judgments of Juffices'have often been reverfed in the Supreme'
Court ; and the a6t of taking, or adminiftering, voluntary afidavits, is highly cenfured by Sir William Blacy/one, 4 'BI. Com.
137. Nor in favpur of this fpecies of a6fion will there be an'
intendment, that the fuit was depending before a proper tribunal. 4 Co. 16 b. An inuendo is not, in itfelf, fufficient to
fhew that Ruh was a Juftice, and had authority in the caufe.
relv. 21. 3 Lev. 66. 4. Co. 17. 5. Burr. 2700.
Sereant, for the plaintiff, arguing in fupport of the verdi&,
faid, that in bnodern time', a very falutary change had taken
place in the dotrine, refpe&ing a6tions of flander ; which were
now liberfitly encouraged, with a view to the corre&ion of licentioufnefs, and the-prefetvation of peace. 4 Bac. Abr. 497.
505. 5o6. Nice exceptions are never allowed to prevail, againfl
areafonable interpretation and common underftanding of the
flander.

2. IWil:. 87. 1 14. 3o0.

The words flhall be takeri

In the fame fenfe, as they- would be unaerflood, by thofe who
hear or read them. Bull. N. P. 3" 4. But as the Jury have
paffed upon the fubjed, the inuendo,,s muff be taken to be
true. It is too late, therefore, to contend, that the words do
not import a charge of perjury : The verdi& eftabliflies that
point,- and the.competency of the jurifdi&ion of the Juffice, as
well as the malice and falfehood of the flander.
The Preidentdelivered the opinion of the Court, in the following terms.
SHIPPEN, Preident. The fenfe in which words are received by the world, is the fenfe which'Courts of Juffice ought
to aferibe to them, on the trial of affions for flander. Slander
imports an injury i and the injury muft arife from the manner
in which the flanderDus language is underftood.
The words, in the prefent cafe, certainly import a crime ;
and the inuendo (which the Jury have found to be true, and
which, therefore. muff govern our interpretation of the fa&y.
fl=ws
H2

2CAsvsi ruled ,and -adjudged in the

6

1 790. fhews that the referehce was not to a matter of common converfation, but to an a& committed before a Juftice of the Peace,
Ly.
in relation to a caufe aC ually depending.
Generally fpeaking, indeed, afions of flander, founded on
triffling caufes, to gratify a petulant and quarrelfome difpofiton, will not be encouraged by the Court : But, when the reputation, trade, or profeffion, of a citizen it really affe&ed, for
the fake of doing juftice to the deareft interefts of individuals,
as well afor the fake of preferving public order and tranquillity,
rvery appeal to the tribunals of our country ought to be libe-

rally fuftained.
Judgment for the Plaintiff.
PRIci, verfus RALSTO,

T

affignee of POLLARD, a Bankrupt.

HIS caufe came before the Court, on a cafe flated for

their opinion, in the following words: " On the 23 d day
of March, 1784, William. Price, the'plaintifffhipped and configned goods, by the Chry/ian, to Milliam Pollard, the bankrupt, one half for the account of the faid Wrilliam -Pollard;
and, at the fame.time, fhipped and configned other goods, by
the Prince of Liege, to the faid William P.ollard, for the fame
account. And on the i8th day of Mfay, following, the faid
9'ijlliam Price,flippe4 and configned other goods, by the John1,
to the faid Wiliam'Pollard,for the fame account ; and on the 2d
day of September, in the fame year, fhipped and configned, by
he George, to the faid William Pollard, other goods, for the
fame account ; and the faid William Price, on the 2d day of
December, 1785, fhipped and c9nfigned.othei&goods, to Meffrs.
Robert Duncan,jun. U- Co..of Philadelphia,being for and on ac'count of the'faid William Price. The faid Robert Duiean &
Company, on receipt of them, depofited the faid goods in the hands
of the laid William Pollard,for account of the faid Milliam Price.
Confiderable fales'of the abov6 mentioned goods, were made
from time to time, by the Laid William Pollard, and monies re'ceived, for the debts outftanding on account-of the flaid fales; the
faid Pollard,at different times previous to his becoming a bankrupt, as hereafter mentioned, took from fome of the debtors
bonds, payable to him, the laid William Pollard, and not expreffing his capacity of agent for. the faid Price. A commiffion of bankruptcy iffued, the 28td1 day of ane, 1787, againft
the faid William Pollard, and on the 29 th day of June, 787,
he' was declared a bankrupt. At the time he was fo declared a
bankrupt, he had no fpecie proceeding-from the faid fales in his
poffelioi, feparated.'aild diftinguiihed from fpecie belonging to
himfelf

