SuPEim

COURT Or PewiryIvania.

231

eeuted, unlefs poffeffion has gone along with them ; but in the 1795.
cafe of ojice papers, it has been the invariable pra~tice, to give ''v%,
all papers found in a public office, in evidence, without regard
to the formalities of execution. The only queftion, therefore,
is whether the paper, now offered, was found, under fuch circumifances of authenticity as to render it proper evidence ? It
is found in the cuftody of a public officer ; and it can be proved, that it was in the Surveyor Generalrs office, as early as the
year 1763.
BY THE COURT :-It is plain that the paper offered, is not
the beft evidence of which the nature of the cafe admits ; for,
if the original was produced, it might be proved to be in the
hand-writing of a proper officer; or.the contrary might be made
to appear. We cannot, indeed, confider it as a regular office
paper. The furvey is not returned into the Secretary's office,
as the exprefs words of the warrant enjoins ; nor does it, in
any way, appear, that it was made by an authorifed perfon.
The evidence muft, therefore, be rejeted.
W
Wilcocks, E. Tilghman, Sitgreaves, for the plaintiff: Bradfird, Ingerfoll, Lewis and Thomas for the defendant.*
RAPELJE Verfus EMERY.

A

VERDICT having been taken for the plaintiff in this

caufe, fubje& to the opinion of the Court, the queftion
(arifing upon the fame fats, fet forth in the decifion in the
Common Pleasant. 5 1.) was argued in 4pril Term laft,. on a
motion for a new trial, and the Judges now delivered their opinionferiatim to the following effe&.
M'KEAN, Chief 7ujfice,---Upon every view of the fubjet,
I am of opinion, that a new trial ought to be granted. The
proceedings of the Court of St.' ujiatius we muft prefume to
be conformable to the law of the place ; the decifion appears to
be ftri6lyjuft ; and, independent of the merits, we are bourid by
it, as the decifion of a competent tribunal.
SHiPPEN, uflice. Having delivered my fentiments at large,
in this aCtion, from another Bench, I mean now only to take
notice of two new. cafes, cited at the laft argument by the plaintiff's counfel, to fhew that a6ions for monoy had afid received,
had been brought and fupported againft plaintiffs, who had recovered upon foreign attachments, to oblige them to refund to
third perfons, the money fo recovered. Thefe are the cafes of
IHunter
on the fame
' This cafe, and many other Ejectments depending
title) were aftrwards fetacd by a -iowprmiWe b wc¢n the parties.

232

CAsus ruled and adjudged in tht

i79S. Hunter v. Ports, in 4
Rep. 182. and* Sill, and othet v)
'.vYarwick, in Henry BlackJyone's Re.p. 665. in both of which
the ruling principles appear to be, that all the parties were fub..
je& to the bankrupt laws of England, where every man is fnp.pofed to be confenting to every a&t of Parliament ; that thero
was aa atual vefting of the property of the bankrupt in affignees, for the benefit as well of the plaintiffs in the attachments
2s all the other creditors ; that the plaintiffs, being jointly interefted with the other creditors, and having a full knowledge of
the whole tranfa&ions, took indire& meafures to apply the
whole property to their own ufe, in dire& violation of the bankrupt laws, and his virtual contraC with his fellow-creditors. It
was, therefore, confiftent with every principle of law and juf-l
tice, to make thofe plaintiffs anfwerable to the affignees of the
bankrupt, for the money they had fo unfairly recovered by attachments in America, and which the affignees were entitled to
as truflees, a& well for the plaintiffs in the attachments themfelves, as the other creditors. Lord Loughborough, in delivering
the opinion of the Court in the latter cafe, is very careful to
diftinguifl that cafe from the general cafe of the creditor, unconneted with the bankrupt laws, vhio recovers his debt in a
competent Court of Juftice, in aforeign Country : For, although
he is of opinion, that the operation of the pr6ceedings under the
bankrupt laws of England is fich as to veftl the perfonal propercy of the bankrupt, in every part ofthe World, in the affignees,
frm the time of the affignment, yet he exprefsly declares, that a
creditor in a foreign country not fubje& to the bankrupt laws
of England, nor affe&ed by them, obtaining payment of his
debt, by the judgment of a foreign Court, and coming after"Pwards to England,could not be made liable to .efund that debt. -He
goes further, and fays, that if the claim of the affigilees of-bank..
ruptcy had been communicated to the Court, who, decided the.
cafe abroad, and they had preferred the claim of the fuing creditor to, theirs, althortgh he fliotuld think that determination
-Wrong, yet it could not be revoked by anothcr Court of Jutfice
ini.England
This pinciple fully reaches the cafe before us., Emery, a
creditor of Fairhild,attaches his effers in a foreign Country,
in the hands of. Smith, the agent of Fairbi/d; Smith appears and
makes defence, and, no doulbt,'communicated to the Court the
circtu-nflances; which lfy the foundation of the prefent plain tiff's
claim. The Court adjudged, that the money in the hands ,of.
&Sith
was the property of -Fairchild,and compel him by their
judgment ta pay Emery his debt oat of it. Now if-,we fhould
even be of opinion, that the money in the hands of Smith was the
property of Rapaje, and not of Fairchild,ycr, upon the principle
Of the cafe detekwined by Lord Zougiorough, we have no power to

revvl=

SUPREMAE COURTr OF

APiitifyhAthIl.

233

revoke that judgment. The whole matter was before that Court,
and they determined the prbperty to be Faircbild's. The plaintiff in the attachment Was wholly unconnecSted with the prefent
plaintiffs, and cannot, upon any principle I kno.w, be confidered
as receiving the vmoney to their ufe. The more obvious recourfe for the plaintiff, is to Fairchildhimfelf, or his eftate, it
he has left any ; if not, it is more agreeable to law and juftice,
thatthe plaintiff fhould fuffe" by the default or failure of his
own agent, than that a ftranger, recovering a fair debt in '' regular courfe of Juftice, ihould refund the money to another
itranger, with whom he had no manner of conneftion.
YEATFS, J7u7ice. Whatever irregularity there may have been
in rendering the foreign judgment, the judgment itfelf is conIlu.
five, as the decifion of a competent tribunal, upon a fubje& in litigation. We can have no legitimate power to revife, or annul it.
If it were necefflary to iemark upon the merits of the original
tyanfa&ion, I fhould deem them, under all the circumftances,
in favor of thd defendant. The principles in Cou. :zoo. might
be fairly. applied to the cafe.
SIMIT-, yUflice, concurred, and cited r. H. BLRep. .3i.
A new trial granted.0
WADLEtt et al. verfus CARsoN's Executors,

T

HIS was an a&ion on a Foreign Bill of Exchange, brought

by the indorfee againft the executors of the indorfor, and
.a verdi6t was given for the plaintiff. A motion having beefi
made and argued for a new trial, on the ground that there had
been no proof of notice to the deceafed indorfor, that the bill
was protefted, and of a demand for payment Qn the drawer, the
CHis JUsTiCE delivered the opinion of the Court.
BY THE COURT. The only point before us is, whether due
notice was gihen to the teftator of the demand and non-payment
of the bill. From the peculiar fituation of this country notice.
muft be confidered as a mfitter of fa&C; and, in that way, "it
was left to theJury, in the prefl.1L cafe-with this fingle remar,
that the notice ought to be given as ioon as it is prafficable.
No time, indeed, has been fixed even in the city; but we ihould
to tbia, that fit or feven days would here be tog
difpofed
be
a, delay."
great
The motion for a new trial rejeted."
aaE
Gg
See the tame cafe, declded in thefase way in the .Philaddbia

Court of Conmtn-2leas, art. 1. 51.

Jvdgment. was- -4fterwards rerdered for the dafendant; ani
Om.Cnfrt of .Etss ajd AP.tffirmtd upon a N'rit 9f .7r:sr in the.t

~alr.

1795.

