34

CAsEs ruled and decreed in the

1782.

January Sefions,

17 82.

.DARBY, et. al.Appellants, verfus The fBRIG ERSTERN, et a.

T

HIS was an appeal from the Admiralty of the State of

Mla~fachufeits-bay, where the Brig and her cargo had been
acquitted. The cafe was argued on the 28th, 2 9 th and 3 oth of

January;-and, on-the 5 th February 1782, the definitive fentence
-of the court was pronounced by PAcA and -GRIFFIN, the prefiding commiffioners, in the following terms:
BY Ti E CouRT.. -Upon the evidence in this cafe, we are of
opinion, that the Brig, at the time of her capture, was the property of Imperialfubje ts at Offend, and that the cargo was Bri-.
.tA property, unproteited by the capitulation of Dominica.
It is objeCted, " The Brig is not prize, becaufe neutral property."
NeutiaW property cannot be cqptured : -For, while the character of aeutrality is preferved, fuch property is the property of
a friend, (n -which the rights of war cannot attach i " but the
owners of a ihip may violate their neutrality, by taking a decided part with-the enemy : In what light-is fuch a fhip then to be
confidered, and what is to be done with her ? The' law of nations lays, that a ihip under thofe circumftances, is in' the
predicament of enemy's property, and fubje& to feizure and
confiscation.
But it is faid, " lle ordinance of Congrefs afcertains in what
c.afes the rights of neutrality are forfeited; that the prefent cafe
is not comprehended; and'therefore, if not protected by the law
of nations, -yet it is aprote&ed by the ordinance of Congrefs."
We are of opinion, that Congrefs did not mean, by their ordinance, to afcertain in what cafes. the rights of neutrality
fliould be forfeited, in exzlufion. of all other cafes 4 for, the
inflances not mentioned are as flagrant as the cafes particularized. The ordinance does not fpecify the cafe of a neutral veflel
employed in carrying provifion to a place which is befieged,.and.in
want of bread : For, altho' one of the articles fays, "iYou fhall perc mit all neutral veffels freely to navigate on the high feas,
cc or the coafts of A4merica, except fuch as are-employed in car,"'rying contraband goods, or foldiers, to the enemy;" yet another article fays, that the term contrabandflall be confined to
the articles there enumerated, and provifion is omitted. Were
Congre&

FEDRAL COURT Op APPEALS.

Congrefs afied, whether they meant to prote& from capture, 1792.
a neutral Ihip loaded with provifion, and defined for Yo-k and L
Glouceffer, when befieged by the arinies of the United States and
France, no one could poffibly doubt what. their anfwer would
be. The plain and obvious conftruffion of the ordinance is,
that while neutral veffels obferve the rights of neutrality, they
fhall not be interrupted by American captures : Congrefs meant
to pay a regard to the rights, and not-to the violations of neutrality.
But, it is obje&ed, c that in this cafe, if the Brig has yiolated the rights of neutrality, it is becaufe fie intended a violation of the capitulation of Dominica; that' the capitulation of
Dominica can only be confidered as a local law, of which there
can be no 'breach, until the offending fhip comes within -the
civil jurifdi&ion of the ifland; that the Brig was captured before the' arrival within the. jurifdi&ioi of Dominica; and that:
-therefore fhe was captureJ, before there was any violation of
the'rights of neutrality."
If nothing coula be objeted againft the Brig, but an-inten=
tional violation of the capitulation, abftfa&edly from the confequences,.with regard to the war between GreAt Britain,France,.
and the United States, poflibly, fuch reafoning might be qonclitfive: But we are of opinion, that the Brig has done more than
a mere intentional offence, with regard to the capitulation.
The fubjels. of a neutral nation, cannot, confiftently with
neutrality, combine with Brity/h fubje~s, to wreft out of the
hands of the United States and of Franc4 the advantages they
have acquired over Great Britain by the rights of war 5for, this.
would be taking a decided part with the enemy.
On the conqueft of .Dominica a capitulation took place, and
by that capitulation, a commercial intercourfe between Great
Britain and that.Ifland was prohibited: The obj'e& was to weaken the power of GreatBritain, by leffening ber naval and commercial refources. But what has been the condu6t of the Brig
and the Imperialfubjets her owners ? KenderMIafon, a Brtt/Z
fubje&, eftabliflhes a plan at OJIend, by which the commerce of
Great Britain with Dominica is to be kept up and preferved,
thro' the intervention of that port. On this plan Liebert, Beas,
Dardine & Co. Imperial fubjes, purchafe at Landon the Brig
Erflern: Kender .Mafon puts on board a cargo of Brit/h merchandize, theproperty of Brit/ fubjeats : The Brig clears out
fromLondon, oftenfibly for Of/end, and there arrives: LiebertBeas,
Dardine &.6Co.fupply her with falfe and colourable papers, affume upon themfelves the ownerfhip of the cargo, and drefs it
up in the garb of neutrality, to fcreen it from detention and capture: The Brig then clears out for Dominica, and fails for that
Ifland with the cargo fie took on board at Londo.

E 2

Camt

CAs - ruled and decreed in the
I782.

k

Can fuch condu& confift with neutrality ? Can there be a
more flagrant violation of it ? -Does it not aim to wreft, from
France and the United States, the advantages they acquired by
the conqueft of Domninica : And does it not evince a frauduh.tc
combination with Britib fubje&s, and a palpable partiality ?
But, "why flall the rights of neutrality be broke by works
of fupererogation ? If the cargo was Britijh property, unprote&ed by the capitulation, it was then the property of enemies,
.and as it did not confift of 'Contraband articles, it was protected
frQm capture, by the ordinance of Congrefs: The Brig, therefore, needed not to employ fraud and firatagem to give it the
garb of neutrality, in order to °fcreen it from capture."
If the offence, which th Brig has committed, confifted in
employing fraud and firatagem, merely to protect property
which belonged to an enemy, the objection might, in. confeqiience of the ordinance of Congrefs, be of fome force. But
the offince is not 6f fo limited a nature ; it is far more extenlive, and comprehends a flagrant violation of the tights of neutrality : It refults from a fraudulent combination with Brii
fubje&s, to give weight and energy to the arms of GreatBritain.
by the "re-eftabliihment of a commerce, and its emoluments,
which fhe had loft by the conqueft of Dsminica.
But, it is objected, "The cargo is not prize, becaufe it is
not cbntraband, and all the other effeCts and gooas, tho' the
property 6f an enemy, are exempted from capture by the ordinance of Congres." "
- If the Erflern had been employed in a fair commerce, fuch
as was confiftent with tbh rights of neutr ity, her carg, tho'
the property of an enemy, could not be prize; becaufe Congrefs have faid, 15y their'ordinance, that the rights of neutralit
flall extend proteffionr to fuch effedts and goods of an enemy.
But, if the fights of neutrality are violated, Congrefs have not
faid,'that fuch a violated neutrality fhall give fuch protethion : 4Nbor
could they have faid fo, without confouniding all the diftin~ions
between right and wrong.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion, that the decree below
be reverfed; and that the faid Brig and Cargo be condemned,
as prize, for the ufe of the .captors, without cofts.
KEANE, et. at. Libellants and

Appellants, verfus

The BRiG GLOucrSTER,
Appellees,..

et a.

•THIS was an appeal from the Admiralty of Pennylvania,
after argument, PACA and GRmFIN, the prefiding
[and
Commiffioners,' delivered the following fentence.

