96

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

3786. plied notice of .trial, from the fieriff, or any other perfon:
%:4 d And, therefore, a motion to bring it en was refufed.
BT THE COURT :-The defendant has not received fuch notice of trial, as made it reafonable for him to prepare. No
laches can be imputed to him ; for, he is not obliged to attend
at every Court, -Whether his caufe is marked'for trial, or not.
In England the proof of a&ual notice is required: But, with
us, as the Gentlenian of the law are not fo numerous, as they
live difperfed, and as there are no regular pDfts, the rigor of that
'rule is not impofed. Still, however, a reafonable notice of trial mufi be given to the party, riot merely to his attorney ; and,
after all, the rules for bringing on caufes muft be influenced by
a legal difcretion, applicable to the peculiar circumftances of
every cafe..
LESHER's Leiee

eifus LEVAiN.

N this caufe articles of agreement, for the fale of. a htoufe

and lot in Germantown, were offered in evidence as a deed,
under the following circuiftances. The articles purported to be
fdr tihe fale of a houfe and five acres of land, for the c6nfidera"tion of f 12o payable, £700 in cafh, and remainder in bonds.
Daniel Longfdo., who was produced as the witnefs to the execution ofi the articles, ftated that lie was called into a room by
Sta ber (the contrae'or to fell) to witnefs the execution of
he bonds ; that when he came in, the papers were lying on a table before Lea/her (the contra&or to purchafe) and Lejher defired
him at to fign as a witnefs : That he did not a~tually fee Stawa.
"ker fign, feal, or deliver the papers, which he fuppofea to have
been regularly executed before he was called in ; but .that he
taw the money paid, and he knew the hand-writing to be Stawaker's: And that poffelfion of the premifes was afterwards, in purfuance of the agreement, delivered to one Har, of whom
Stawaker rented a room in the houfe in queftion, for £8.
The Counfel for-the defendant oppofed the admifllon of the
articles of agreement, contending that there was no proof of the
feaiing and delivering, which are effential to .a deed.
But iY THE COURT :-There is tufficien proof, that the infirument was figned by Stam.aker; and, therefore, we fhall let
it go to the Jury ; who will determine, for themfelves, whether
thu, and the other circumftances in the cafe, are fatisfa&ory
evidence of fealing and delivery.
Rasw, 7u/ce :-I differ in opinion from the reft of the
Court. I think that bef6re the initrument is read, fealirg and
delivering fhould be proved. If, indeed, the witneffes were
proved

AE-. COURT

SU

.
OF Pennfykankh.

97

proved to be dead, or abfent beyond the reach of the procefs of .1787.
the Court, the proof of their hand-writing would, be admitted ; l'*..a
or, if that was not praficable, proof of the hand-writing of
the obligor might be fatisfatory. But thefe circumftances do
not occur on the prefent occafion ; and as far as the teftimony
of LongJdorff' goes,. it is calculated to induce a belief that there
was, in fa&, no fealing and delivery of the inftrument. It is
not, therefore, proved as a deed ; andj in my opinion, it ought
not to be left to the Jury as a memorandum.

A bill of exceptions was taken to the opinion of the Court,
but never profecuted.

April Term, 1787.

CocKsnoT's Leffee

JECTMENT.

vefus

HOPKINS.

The demife laid in the -declaration having

expired, during the p'endency of the iafion, Coultburft,
E
moved for leave io amend by inferting the word twenty, inflead
of feven, fo as to enlarge'the term : And he cited Cwp. 841. 4
Burr. 2448i
Lewis was about to reply, when the CHIEF JUSTICE obferved,
that the point was not only decided by the .Engli/hauthorities,
but by, a recent adjudication in this Court.
BY THE COURT :-Let'the amendment be allowed on pay.
ment, of cofts.

PRINGLE

Y

verfis

OREIGN attachment.

BLACK'S Executor.

A rule was obtained to hew caufe

why the foreign attachment lhould not be quaflied : And
only queftion difcuffed on the argument was, whether a
foreign attachment would lie againif
N an executor?

After

