CAsS ruled and adjudged in the

1791.

September Term, 1791 .

Joy's Leffee, ve'fiis CoSSART, et. al
JECTMENT for a heufe, in the city of Philadelphia. The.
Leffors of the plaintiff were affignees, under a commiffion of bankruptcy iffued againft one Cbry/lian Wirlz, of whom
Dfo&or Charles Moore, the landlord of CoFart, had purchafel.
Upon the general iffue, it was contended by the defendants,
that the commiflion had iffued irregularly, and was void, for
the following reafons :
ift. The a& of bankruptcy, alledged to have been committed
-by lirtz, was a conveyance of a lot of ground, to one of his,
hildren, by deed, and without a valuable confideration. This,
it was admitted, was fraudulent and void under the ftatute of
13 Eliz. but not an a& of bankruptcy.
2d. The debt of the petitioning creditor was not within
*hich was paffed the
the aS for the regulation of bankruptcy,
r 7th Septemberi 17 85S; and which provides, that the debts of
tht petitioning creditor fhall " have arifen on a contraS, or
tran&&ion, fubfequent to the paffing of the aS.' 2 Pl. Dail.
p. 369. SeR. 3. Nowthe debt due to the petitioning creditor was
on a rimning account, every item of which was prior to June,
I785, and which was thus indorfed : "cWe do acknowledge
the within account to be juft and true, errors excepted; and
alfo excepting all fuch remittances as we have already made,
fince rendering the fame, and which had not then come to
the' hands of 7oy and Hopkins ; and we promife to pay the balance thereof, being £3904 6 io fierling, to Joy and Hopkins,
in London, or their order or agents here, with intereft at 5 per
h6nt. 'June 3, 1788. (Signed) C.. Wirtz. I, Wirtz." This
the defendant's counfel contended, was no extinguiihment, orfatisfafion of the original debt ; and, therefore, not within the
meanir-_ of the aS.
In anfwer to the firfl point, the plaintiff's counfel infifted,
that every fraudulent conveyance by deed, was an aS of bankruptcy. To the fecond point, it was anfwered, that the endorfement on the account: was a real promiffory note, which operatcd as a fatisfafion of the original cqontraa. But, at all events,
it

SuPREME COURT oF PMLIylvania.
it was ftrongly urged, that it did not Fe with third perfons to 1791.
enquire into, or difpute, the regularity of the proceedings under &
a commiffion of bankruptcy.
The Court charged the Jury, in favor of the defendants, on
the two latt points; but left it to them to determine, whether
the firft was, or was not, an a& of bankruptcy ; inclining to
think that it was : And the plaintiffs were defired to move
for a new trial, if they doubted the direction of the Court.
A verdict being found for the defendants, the motion was
made and argued in 7uly laft, by Lewis, Tilghrnan, and -4. fotris for the plaintiffs, and by Ingerfoll, Seijeant and Rawle, for
the defendants. At the prefent Term, the unanimous opinion
of the Court was delivered io the following effe&.
BY THE CouRT:-After ftating the preceeding tranfactions, and the feveral points made, the Court left it to the Jury,
to determine on the firft point, whether the deed made by 7'Virtz
to one of his children, was, or was not, an aEt of bankruptcy:
We are inclined to think it was.
As to the fecond point, we are of opinion, that this was
not a fufficient debt to fupport the commiifion. No affion
of debt would lie upon this writing alone. It is no extinguifhment, nor fatisfa~tion. An Izfrmul computafent, indeed, would
lie; but that is a derivative a~ion, recurring to the original account, which is prior to paffing the a tof Affembly.
As to the third point made by defendants' counfel, we are
fatisfied, that it is competerit to third perfons, where their intereft is affeCted, to take advantage of the irregularity of the
Befides the numerqus cafes cited in Pleafants verfus
proceedings.
.Afcng, r Dal. Rep. 3 g0 . and that cafe itfelf, fee 2 Burr. 932.
Whether a creditor, who has received a dividend, can obje6t to
the commiffion, we will not fay ; but Dortor Moore, who never
did receive a dividend, certainly may obje& to it.
Let the rule for a new trial be diftcharged.
SCOTT

erefus

CROSDALE.

HIS was an aCtion of Dower, brought in BucksrCounty,
againft the defendant, who had purchafed lands, fold by
the fheriff under a judgment obtained on a &cireFaciason a mortgage. The mortgage was executed by the hulband, but the
plaintiff (his widow) was no party to it: And on the trial Juftice ATLEE referved the point, whether the wife's dower was
bound by the mortgage ?
Serjeant, for the plaintiff, contended that there was a diftircfrm as to the effet of a fale under a FL Fa. and a Levari Fac€as.

