M16

CAsE ruledt and adjudged in the

179 o . approved by the Court, that fuch a rule could not be grantee

the commonwealth, the motion was made fom a peremptory rule to try at the next term; under which the Court faidi
they Would order the jury to be qualified.
Levy for the plaintiff ; Serjeant for the defendant.

Sagainft

BORGER efus SEARLE.

(

N a Caan returnable to the prefent term, Lewis this day,
moved for a rule to fhew the plaintiff's caufe of action,
and why the defendant fhould not be difcharged 'on common
bail; offering, at the fame time, to 'file an -agreement, that
the queftion might be heard before a fingle judge at his chambers.
Bradford objeted, that this being the laft day Qf the term,
the motion was out of feafon. He did not difpute the power
of the Court ; but 'he appealed to their difcre.ion, whether it
would not be unreafonable to fufpend the caufe ibr three months,
by granting the rile at fo late a period.
'BY THE CouRr :-The motion is certainly out of time. Before the return of the Oapias, a queftion of bail may be brought.
before,
States ; and .by the letter of Mr. Lewis, Judge of the diftri&
court of the Unifed States, that in Penafylvania the. rule is,.

that where neither the creditor- nor any agent, was within the

Rate, no intereft was allowed ; where elther. remained, they gave ixntereft. In al the 6ther fates I believe it is left difcretionary in thecourts and juries. In Maffachnfets, the pra&ice has varied. In November, 1784, they inftruft their delegates in Congrefs to alk the
determination of Congrefs,whether they underflood the word ' debts'
in the treaty asincluding intereft ? Andwhether it is their. opinion,
that 'terefr during the war Thoald be paid ? And 'at the fame time
they pars the ad dire&iug the courts to fufpend rendering,
judgment for any intereft that might have accrued between April 19,.
1775, and Jauuary 20, 1783. But in 1787, wherttbere was a general compliance enaed through all the United States, in order to fee
if that would produce a counter-compliance, their legiflature paffed the
a& repealing all laws repugnant to the treaty, and their courts,
on their part, changed their rule relative to intereft during the
war, which they have uniformly allowed fince that time. The circuit
court of the Uhited States, at their feffions at
in-. 179 o, determined in like manner that iritereff (hould be allowed during the-war. " So that on thewhole we fee that, in one fate, intereft during
,the war is given in every cafe, in another it is givea wherever the

creditor, or any agent for him, remained in the country,* fo as to be.
aeceflible ; and iri the others, it is left to the courts and juries to
decide, according to their di.fcretion and the circumfianecs of the cafe.

SORRE.E CoILT OF Penfyvartia.

S11

before a fingle judge; but after the return, it mufr be decided
on an application to the Court; which ought to be made) on
the firft day, or, at leaft, within a reafonable period, after the
commencement of the term. The prefent motion cannot,
therefore. be granted.

VAS.M verfus SPIcEr.

SSUE had been joined in this caufe, and the jury were
at the bar ready to be qualified for trying it, when Serjeant moved for leave to retract his plea, and to enterjudgment
by non fum informatus. Rawle and Du .Ponceau, for the plaintiff, oppofed the motion : And Lewis, as amicus curio, obfering that the queftion was of general importance, hoped that
the Court would take this opportunity of corre&ing, what he
confidered to be an unreafonable and unwarrantable pra&ice.
In fupport of his opinion he referred to Sty. Pr..Reg. 371. 7acLaw Dis1. Tit. " J7udgment." 2 Lill Xbr. 104. 5 Con. .Dig.
x-86. x Brown. x96.
BY T14E CouRT :--It has been a prafice for the plaintiff's
attorney to accept a judgment in the mode propofed by the motion ; but the point, for allowing the defendant's attorney,
either as matter of right, or indulgence, to retra& his plea,
under fuch circumftances, has never been brought before the
Court on argument. The inconveniency of the delay, where,
in fa&, there is no difpute, is,however, fo palpab'le, that we'
cannot give a judicial -counteuance to the pra&ice. Therefore,
let the jury be called.
Ex Parte HoxE.

D

ALLS moved for a fpecial Court to try various a&ioxm

in which Mr. Hoiker was defendant, jointly withDuer and
Parker.; but it was obje&ed by Lewis that the reafon of the
a& of Affembly, for granting fpecial Courts, did not apply to
cafes, where there were partners, who could remain, during the
ufual courfq of proceeding, to defend the -caufes,and who did not
join -in the application.
BY THE- CouRT :-The obje&ion is not fufficient to juftify
the refufal of a motion for a fpecial Court. The. Legiflature
intended to relieve defendants, who were ready and willing to
procced to triali and ?ceeraoing a dedlkon gannot pofibly, irrjure

1790.

