Str-RM

COURT oF Pennf.lvania.

143
179",

NESrT ;.rfux POP.

T

HE defendant had, at a former term, obtained a rile to try,
or non pros. At this term the defendant's counfel, not re-,
zolleaing this, defired the plaintiff to continue the caufe, which
he agreed to, and the Prothonotary entered a continuance accordingly : But, immediately after, difcovering that he had a rule
on the plaintiff, the defendant acquainted the oppofite counfel
with it, and gave notice that lie fhould infift upon the rule.
This day the caufe was, called and the defendant moved that
it might be ordered on : The plalntiffobjeded; and infilfed that
entry of the continuance was conclufive.
BY THE COURT :-Such an. entry cannot be conelufive.
This is a mere miftake ; and as it was immediately difcovered,
and notice given, no inconvenience arofe from it. If the plaintiff had fuffered any thing by it, it might have been another
matter: But here he could fuffer nothing. If he was ready
for trial when the entry was made, he muff be ready when the
rniftakc was notified to him.
JONES qfti tam,

vefu Ross.

r'- HIS caufe 'was frt down for trial. _Ingeifoll, for the plainJ tiff, moved for liberty to amend the declaration, and
Rated it as a fettled praaice, -even in qui tam a&ions.
The CHiEF Jusricn faid, if you amend, 'the defendants
will be intitled to an .imparlance and coffs.
' Iloylan for the defendant : We cannot oppofe the amendment,
,but we afk no imparlance. The plaintiff may amend at the bar,
and we will go on to trial imm.diately. Rule'accordingly.

SAME CIUSE.

tN order to prove certain affengers, imported by the defen.

J dant into the State, to be convi&s, and to have u'ndergone
punifhment, in the Spiel-Houfe of Hamburg, in Germany$ a commiffion to examine witneffes in that city had been taken out.
This was returned by the commiffioners, 'containing a written
report of the names of the perfons confined in the Spiel-Houfe,
iR 1786, and of the offenc's for-which they had been convic&t-e.d,

