264
1

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

7796. there were two points of difcrimination between Promifory.
Notes and Bills of Exchange :-.ift. Promiffory Notes were taken by the indorfee, fubjedt to all the equitable circumftances,
to which they were fubjed in the hands of the indorfor. IDall.
.Rep.4 4 I. And 2d. Protefted Bills of Exchange were entiiled
to
a priority in payments by executors, or adminiR-rators. The
Lcgiflature meant, in the cafe of Bills and Notes, difcounted at
the Bank of Pennfylvania, to abolifh all 1iftin6tion between
thofe commercial in'ftruments ; and the expreffi(n of the ad' is
fufficiently comprehenfive to effeduate that obje.
But, it was anfwered,'by'Moylan, Tbomas, and

L..Levy, that

the A& of Affembly only applied to the remedy upon a Promiffory Note; and did not alter the nature and character of the
infkrument. The-exifting mifchief, intended to be removed,
was the right of fet-off, claimed by the drawer againft the indorfee; and even upon the words of the two adls, it was remarkable, that the priority is given by the firft
to protefled Bills
of Exchange; whereas the fecond places Promiffory Notes on
the fame footing as I4oreign Bills of Exchange.
Br THE CoulR. Though the queftion is not regularly before us, we have no obedion to intimate our opinion, that
Promiffory Notes are not entitled to the fame priority as Bills
of Exchange. The Ad of Affembly applies only to the cafe of
defalcation.
STILES,

Plf. in Er. verfus

RIT of Eiror.

DONALDSON.

To an adion of JDebt on a Bbnd, da-

VV

ted in Augfl 1774, the defendant pleaded payment, and
gave notice of afet-o.
The caufe was tried in the Common

Pleas of Philadelphia Copnty on the 1 th of November
1794,
9

when the Bond being proved, without any indorfement of
payment, for principal, or interef, the defendant, by way ofa
fet-off, offered evidence to iew, ' that after the execution of
the Bond, and before the commencement of the fuit, the Plaintiff had become indebted to him in a fum exceeding the amount
of the Bond, upon accounts ftill remaining unliquidated and
unfettled between them, as merchants, concerning the fales o"
merchandize made by the PlaintiffT, in parts beyond the fea, as
agent and fa6tor for the defendant." To the admiffion of this
evidence, the plaintiff obje&ed, that there v'as a lapfe of more
than 17 years, fince the date of the laft item of the accounts,
and no proof given of any fubfequent demand of the money
now propofed to be fet-off; and that the long acquiefcence. of
the defendant, as well as the pofitive bar of the 1tatute of limitations.

PRI~jt7A'

Cdttr

o1v Pen 15Awfltd

tations, muft be fufficient to preven t his recovering, or defalking the amount. THE COURT below, however, admitted the i
evidence, upon which a verdia was found in favor of the defendant for a balarce but the plaintiff took a Bill of Exception&
to the decifion, and brought the prefent Writ-of Error to try iti
talidity.
Ingerfill, for the Defendant in Error, contended that the tafe
of a Fador was not within the a& of limitatiolis (i vol. Dalh
.Edit.p. 95.) There may be fome doubt, whether the exception
in the a& embraces accounts between merchants, which are
not a proper foundation for an aaion of accotnt rendeel but 4c.,
couwt render is the appropriate remedy for a pr,ncipa againft bis
; and, copfequently, the pfeent cafe in
.
factor, 3 Woodef 83
as well as the terms1 of the emdepprinciple
the
within
clearly
!ion. In i Eq. Abr. a. pl. 6. there is an auth6rity nearly iri
point; articles furnifhed being allowed, undef fimilar circum-z
fances, as a fet-off agalnf4 a Bond ; the Coirt declaring that-a
difcount was natural juftice hiiall cafes ; and the Legiflature of
thd
opinion' when
a fimilar
have entertained
muft
Pennfyvvatia
p. 4'5
t Vol..Dali..Edit.
was paflikd.
defalcation
general a& for
the
tY
implicitly,
Condy, for the Plaintiff in Error, fulnnitted,
the:
of
circtrmftances
the
under
whether,
o piniorn of the Court,
cafe, the defendant's claima on the account was barred : but ig
the opinion, was in the affirmative j he remarkb-A1 that the Jury'
by finding a verdi& againf the plaintiff, had eftablifhed the accounts barred, as a fubftantive demand (not merely as a fet-off
according to the cafe in i Eq...Ar. 8. p1. 6.) and, confeqtuerly
the verdi~c, and the judgmetit upon it, were erroneous.
But THE COURT were, xfnanimoufiy 1 of opinion, that the ac-.
counts, on which the fet-off had been claimed, were not wjthirr
the aa of Limitations ; mind that the- Comnon Pleas had done
the defendant.
right in admitting th6 eiilenee offered byJudgment
aftrmedi

A

'.gErSTU21iT Ca. La. had iffued to tile Sheiffof Laii-"
coutsca ier, upoq vhich the party was arrefted, and the too
ney paid. Bu the Sheriffpaidt ovet to the nominal, ieosead.
Bfthe reil, plaintiff, thoztheinndorfement for the ufea &e. wa
terms
t *afHa/lowell obtaned a rule to reA the
on the rt
wh an attach.trn the Tfl. Ca. a. or to fiew caufe this d ee
eat Thould not iffue aga.niL t&de heriff; and now, upon proof
of fervice of the rul, he moved. that the attachment fhould b
awarded.
. BY THE Cquvri.;Let the attachment iffuj, returnable the
JA
fait day of the wEm.

1

