5o
1790 .

CAsE& ruled and adjudged in the

to the obligor, in order to prevent his paying thG money to the
who has thus parted with his intereft. But there is no
pofitive law that requires a firft aflignee to notify a fubfequent
one; and the,cafe is not within the general principle of the
rule that has been cited.
The fole obje& of confideration, therefore, is, whether the
money arifing from the commiffions, was advanced by Willing
&".AIorri to G. Ingli,, on the faith of his promife, and the credit of the legacy ? That fa6l it is the province of the jury
to afcertain and decide : If the affirmative prevails in their
minds, the verdi& ought to be for the defendants; but if
they entertain a contrary opinion, the nominal plaintiffs are'
cntitled to recover.
Verdi& for the Plaintiff.*

Sperfon,

INTS .Verfus MIL~LER.
eIwEPLEVIIN.-The Defendant offered Francis ailey, as5a,
who being fworn on his voir dire, Laid "that
hews a judgment creditor of the defendant's;i that he expe&ted, if the defendant recovered, to be paid, at leaft a part of his
debt ; and that he did not know that the de1fendant had any other
property than what was involved in the Replevin, to fatisfy him;
but, on the contrary, he believed that his payment depended on
the defendant's recovery." It appeared, likewife, that Bailey
was the attorney in fa& of the defendant, and in that'charaaer
was a&ive in profecuting this, and .other fits.
The admifflon of the withes was .oppofed by Bradford, Todd,
and Leuy, who cited i Dal. p. 62, M'7eaugh v. Goods. And
fupported by Serjeant, who cited -Abransv. Bunner.

I~.withefs ;

BY TH:E COURT : -. he law on this fubje& has been fuilly

fettled in the modern cafes, by an accurate difcrinmination
between the competency and the credibility of witneffes. The
fiream of juftice fhould, however, be preferred clear and uncontaminated : and although a creditor is not excluded from
giving teftimony, as fuch; yet if he acknowledges an expe&ation, that he maall b bettered by the fate of the caufe,
(as "in the cae of .M'Yeaugb v. Goods, which wvas properly
ruled) he is fen fible of a pofitive intereft, that muft give a
biafs to his mind. From the anfwers' of the withefs, there..
fore, we mauft reje&t his teftimonyr.
.,
M'OLENACHAU

*There was a motion made i'or a new trial ; but on the 26tht
I Auguft ;79o it wa 'withdrawn ad judgment entered confoum.
b]¥ to the verdi&t.

