160

CAsEs ruled an1 adjudged in tle

1792. duced to flew, that if a caufe be removed from an inferzor cour

in Egland,into the King's Bench, the judgment will bind generaflly.°
THE COuRRT thought, that the0rfl point had been fully deci-

ded, in the two cafes cited by the counfel for the plaintiff, from
P. Wim. and Dallas'sReports. Thefecond they held under conideration, in order to enquire, what had been the prafice in
other counties ; and, being fatisfied in that refpe6, in SeptembWe
term, they were all of opinion, that a judgment in the Supreime
Court, in a caufe removed thither from any inferior court, was a.
lien on all the lands which the defendant had in the State.*
Having been of counfel in this caufe, Jfice BRADFORD
gave no opinion.

AXpril Term, 179q.
Ross xt at. Executors veis

RITTENHOUSE.

N this caufe a verdi& was taken for the plaintiff, fubjec%
to the opiniori of the Court on a cafe ftated. After argument, the Judges recapitulated the fa€ts and arguments of
counfel, and delivered their opinions feriatim in the following
terms:
MC'IEAI, Chief 7itJiice- This tafe Is, in brief, as folows :--,
The Br;i)/h floop Aive- had been captured as prize bn the
high feas, in Septenher, x78, and was brought into the port of
Philadelphia, where fhe was libelled in the Court of Admiralty
of the State, held before George R , "Efq. the then Judger
pn the i 8th day of the fame month. The four perfons, for
whofe ufe this action is brought, claimed the whole veffet
and cargo, as their eiclufive prize ; but Thomas Huion,
nafler of the brig Conventin, a vefl I of war belonging to
the State of Penn/jlvania, claimed a moiety for the States
himfelf, and crew S and 7amnes JofaZ, rnafter of the floop Gerard, a private veflE1 of war, claimed for 11imfelf, owners, and
crew,
* Mr. Hae-Graham, an eminent conveyancer, held, that thefe judg,
uents in the Supreme court did not bind landstgenerally; and it ha.
not been ufial for perfons living in the country, to apply to the Prothonoiary of this cotrt for lifts -of Jud-ment.s which Mr. Bird, on

hcg asked by the Court, confirm.d.

-

COUT
u-iM OV PeMWIVa-dai.

z6%

crew, a fourth part, allowing a fourth for the four perfons be- 1792.
4"
fore named. All the claimants were citizens of the Un ted States. '
November,
of
th
x
the
on
Jury,
a
by
The libels were tried
5
1773, and a general verdi&t given, in the proportions above mentioned, which was confirmcd by the fentence of the Court.
Gideon Utmflead and the other three perfons, were A4merican

-mariners on board the Avi.ze; they had rifen upon the mafter,
and confined him and the other mariners in ihe cabin, where
a conteft was kept up for the command of the veffel. The Con.
vention and Gerard came up with her, and the queftion was,
whether the four American mariners had fubdued : reft of the
crew before there veffiels came in fight ; that is, whether hoftilities had then ceafed ? The jury were of opinion, they had not,
and gave the verdi& accordingly.

Gideon Unfead and the three other mariners appealed from
the fentence, to the Court of Appeais of the United States,
which, on the i 5 th of December following, reverfed the fen"
tence of the Judge of the Admiralty, and decreed the whole to
the appellants. The Judge refufed obedience to the decree of
reverfal, and paid a mQiety of the net proceeds of the prize into the treafury of the State, taking a bond of indemnity from
the defendant in this eaion, as treafurer of the State, upon
which bond this aaion is brought. The Execators of Judge
Rofi, the obligee, having been previoufly fued in the Court of
Common Pleas, for the county of Laica/fler, in this State, for
the money fo paid, andjudgment being obtained againl, them
by dfaitdt, without any knowledge of the defendant.

Thereupon feveral queftions have been made, which may be
ftated a- folIows :
i f. Had 'he Court of Appeals jurifdiffion- to inveffigate
fats, after a trial and general verdit by a Jury, and to give a
contrary decifion, without the intervention of another Jury ?
county
2d. Had the Court of Common Pleas of Lancajier
flead and others, againft the
jurifdictiof in the action by
Executors of the Judge; pr fnould not the decree of the Court
of' Appeals have been carried into execution by that Court, or
the Court of Admiralty, without the aid or intcrference of any
common law court ?
3 d. Can an aaion be maintained on this bond, the condition whereof is virtually to difobey the Court of Appeals, and
The laws of the land, if that Court had of right a power to decide contrary to the general verdi& of a Jury ? Alid, can
the plaintiffs, without having defended, or given notice to the
prefent defendant of the fuit in .the Court of Common Pleas,
fupport an a~tion on this bond ?
I conceive it proper to premife, that I took notice at the time
this,a6tion was firft brought to trial in this Court, " that when
the
X

i6f

CAStS ruled and adjudged in lhe

r792. th&bufinefs ws before th Court of Appeals of the Unite

4o-v--w States, in Decembr, f7'8, I had the honior to be Prefidert of

that Court ; but declined fitting on account of my conne&ion
with this State as.Chief Jultiee, ana otherwite ; and that the
fame reafon fill fubfifted. That the nextthing to"giving a righte-.
ous judgmcnt, was to ei'deavor to give general fatisfa&ion;
which circumflance'might not probably be attained by our decifion of the prefent controverfy, both Court and Jury being in
fome meafure interefted, as they were all citizens of Pennfylv&ida. F6r thefe reafons, I exprefed a wifh, 'that. fome mode
might be, adopted for trying the caufe in the Supreme Court of
the United Staes." This propofition was then alfented to, and
a juror withdrawn ; but, it feems, our expe&ations have been
d-ifappointed, and we are obliged, at laft, to decide the controverfy.
To dtermine'the firft queftion, we muft take into ccnfideration the a& of Congrefs for ere&ing tribunals competent to determine the propriety of captures, paffed, the 25 th .November,
1775, th fourth fe&ion of which i8 in ihefe words :
" That it be, and hereby is recommended, to the feveral
, Legiflatures in the United Colonies, as foon as poflible, to e" re& Courts of juflice, or give jurifdiffion to "the.Courts
noV in being, for the" purpofe of determaining concerning
" the captures to be made aforefaid, and to provide, tkat all
cc trials i/i fuel' cae bebhad by a Yur,, 'underfmc/. qualf cations as to
,"the refe7ive Leg iatures jal fern expedient." The fixth

fe&ion Provides " "that in al cafes an appeal fhail be allowed.
4 to the Coig-fs, or to fuch perfon or perfons as they fhall ap" poin~t for the trial of appeals, &c!'
TEhe a& of General Afffimbly, paffed the 9 th of September,
1778, intitled " an a& for eflablifhing a Court of-Admiralty,"
aliows appeals from that Court in all cafes, unlefs from
the determination or finding vf the fans by the Jury, which
was to be without re-examination or appeal.
The Congrefs on the r 5 th o'fJrntaary, 1780, Yefoived (inter

a/la)" that the trials in the Court of Appeals be. according to
" the ufage of nations, and not by 7u'v." This has been the
prac7icein moft nations, but the law of nations, or of nature andrealon, is in arbitrary ftates enforced by the royal power, in others, by
the municipal law of the country ; which latter may, I conceive,
facilitate of improve the execution ofits decifions, by any means
they fhall think beft, provided the great univerfal law remains
unaltered. Now, why may not afa&, refpe&ing the capture from an enemyby citizens of the fame State, and in which quefrion no
'foreign nation, or perfon, is concerned, be determined by ajury, as
well as in other cafes ? This modd of afcertaining a fa& done on
the high feas, to wit, who were the captors of a prize, when

tb-

SUREME COUR OF Penn,lanta-

the contending parties are all citizens, or fiubje&s .of the fame
country, feems to be as reafonable, as indifputes about property, acquired on land. I confefs, I do not fee how the law of
nations is counteraded, or infringed by it.
In England, if piracy was committed by a fibjeR; it waheld a fpecies of treafon, being contrary to his allegiance by the
ancient common law ; if by an align, it was held to be felony.
Formerly it was cognizable by the Admiralty Courts, which proceed by the rules of. the civil law ; but the fIatute 28 Henry 8.
c. i 5. eftablifhed a new jurifdi&ion for this purpofe, wtich proceeds according to the courfe of the Common Law. Here is a precedent of. an ad of Parliament changing the common mode of
trial in Europe, .ndintroducing the trial by Jury, whioh remains
in force and praice to this day. if this can be done, where
life is the flake, aforiori, it may be done in matters of ,neunz
et tuum.

It, then, appearing to me, that the Coxgrefs and Legiflature
of Pennfylvaniahad power and authority to make the alteration,
in the mode of trial of fa&s litigated between citizens, it remains to be enquiredi whether the verdid in the prefent cafewas capable of re-examination by the Court of Appeals, without
another Juiy. The genius and fpirit of the Conmon Law ofEngland, which is law in Pennfylvania, will not fuffer a fentence or judgment- of the loweft Court, founded on a general
verdiR, to be controuled or reverfed by the higheft j urifdi& ion ;.
unlefs for error in matter of la%, apparent upon the face. of the
i Wilt. SS, This is cnrecord. 3 Blacy. 330. 379forced by the a6t of Affembly of the

9

th of September, 1778,

in clear and exprefs words, in the very cafe under confideration ;
which ad was piffed in compliance with the ad of Go grefo
of the 2 5 th November, 1775, and allows an appeal in all cafes,
unlefs from the verdid of a Jury ; having a reference to the.
fubjed matter, and meaning that the faftisfhould not be re-examined, or appealed from ;,but that an appeal might be made
notwithffanding,with refpe6'rto any error in matter of law. The
advantage of viva voce evidence over written, in the inveftiga.
tion of trtdr, will hardly be controverted at this day in the United States; and the. Court of Appeals had not the opportunity
of fecing the witneffes on the trial, or of fo well knowing the
credit due to them, refpedively, as the jury.
For thefe reafons, and others, which I fhall omit for, te fake
of brevity, I am ferry to be obliged to f£y, that, in my judg-.
ment, the decree of the Comrmttee of Appeals was contrary to
the provifions of the ad of Congrefs, and of the General Af-.
fetnbly, extra-j-udicial, erroneous and void. I am ffrengthe'ned
in this opinlon by the true conflruction of the refolve of Canzfreft, of the

5 tlJantary,

1780, to wit, that the trials in the

164

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

1792. new Court of Appeals fhould be according to the ufage of rrations, and not by 7vry ; which implies, that the Court of Ap-.
peals, prior to this, had, or ought to have, proceeded by Jury-trials. _4d quef'onem falIi non refpondentjudicex, ad qufiot em jurix
von refpndsnt juratorex. i Ingi. i g. 1.
As my opinion on the firft queftion, is in favor of the defendant, it will appear unneceffary7 to fay any thing to. the 'other
points; but as theyhave been firongly infifted upon, I fhall briefly
notica one of them. It rather feems to me, that the appellants
had no other way of obtaining the execution of the decree in
their favor, but by the aid of the Court of Appeals, or of Ad.
mifalty, and no Court of Conmon Law has any jurifdiion in
the cafe. Do1.glafs. 572. 3 Term. Rep. 344 4 Term. Rep.
82. 400. "I Dal. 2~ep. 2
i.
lWils. 2 i.
And, alfo, that
an a&ion will not lie againift a judge for what he does as fuch.
Cro. Eliz. So. 397. 1 Mod. 184. "85. 2.M1od. 218. 12 rtd.
388. 391. 1 Ld. Rqym. 465. 2 Ld. Rayn. 767. 8alk. 397.
S
SHIPpEN,
Jtfflice* This is a fuit brought on an obligation
from the defendant to the plaintiffs' teftator, for the fum "of
422,oo, on a fpecial condition for the repayment and refLitution of the fum of C [496 9 9, paid by the Laid George Rof:, the
Judge of the State Court of Admiralty, to the defendant,
ueafurer of the State of Pennjflvania, as the ihare and dividend of the faid- State, in and out of the prize floop Aaive,
according to the verdi& of the Jury on the trial of the fame floop,
in the Admiralty Court of the faid State, in cafe the Laid George
.Ros fhould thereafter, in due courfe of law, be compelled to pay
the fame according to the decree of the Court of Appeals in,
the cafe of the Laid floop Ac7ive, and for the indemnification of
the faid George Rofe, from all affions and demands, which might
arife on account ofhis having paid the faid money to the defendant.
As a foundation for the prefent fuit, the plaintiffs produced
a record of a recovery in Lancafier County againft them, for
the Lum of £3248 4 7 1-4, at the fuit of Gideon Umftead,
artemus White, Aqila Rumfdale, and David Clarl, in'an action of afump/', for money had and received by the teftatorGeor~e
Rof, to the ufe'of them the faid Gidean Unfead, and others.
The judgment appears to have been taken by default, and the
damages affeffed by a Jury of Inquiry.
It is Qated in the cafe, that the defendant had no notice of this,
recovery 'till after the final judgment. It, therefore, feems to
have been agreed, that whatever defence the defendant might
have made, if he had been privy to that a&ion, he may availhimfelf of in this. Two principal queftions arife on the cafe.
xft. Whether the Court of Appeals of Congrefs, were competent to decide the queftion of prize,.anid the confequent queftio., who were the captors to whom the prize fhould be adjudr-

Y,.J

SUPLME CouRT oF PenMItfYkniV.'

ed, contrary to the VerdiS of the jury, in the State Court of 1792-Admiralty ?V%
2d. Was the a&ion of UWflead, and others, againift the Judge
of the Admiralty, for the money lodged in, his Court in confequence of his own decree, cognizable in the Court of Common
Pleas in Lancafler County ?
As to the firft queftion, I own I am not convinced, that
the fovereign power of the nation, vefted by the joint and
common corifent of the people and States of the Union, with
the exclufive rights of war and peace, and with the confequent,
and nec~ffary powers, of judging in the laft refort of the leglity of captures on the ocean, can, either in reafon or found law,
be precluded from deciding an appeal, both of fi&s and law, ariing in cafes of prize, merely becaufe they had recommended
to the States to pafs laws to eftablifh Courts of Admiralty, for
the trial of prize caufes, in which the fa&s were, in the firft
inftance, to be tried by Jury, according to the courfe of the common law. ift. Becaufe, in the nature of things, and according
to the courfe and pracice of all civil law courts, all decifions in the
Courts in the laft refort, upon appeals, are niade upon a view and
full confideration of both fa& and law. 2d. B]ecaufe, otherwife,
appeals from the inferior Courts -would, in moft cafes, be vaiit
and nugatory. 3 d. Becaufe, otherwife, no fteady and uniform rules of decifion could be eftablifhed, and foreign
nations could never know, or confide in, the grounds of
our decifions ; and it does not appear to me material, that,
in the pre(ent inifance, all the parties were American citizens.
And laftly, becaufe, in the prefent cafe, Congrefs has explicitly
referved the power of final decifwns upon appeal in allcafes.
As to the fecond queftion, whether an a&ion is fuftainable in
the Court of Common Pleas in behalf of Un!/lead, and others,
againft the Judge of the Admiralty for the money he difri.
buted according to his own decree, I acknowledge I cannot difcover any principle, or authority in law, upon which fuch an
ation can be fupported. It is not now to be made,a queftion,
whether the Courts of Admiralty have not an cxclufive jurifdiction over all queftions of prize, or no prize; and alfo who are the
captors of prizes, and how diftribution sffall be made ; together
with the power ofenforcing their own decrees : The cafes ofLiffdo
vo. Rodney, Le Caux v. Eden, and Cainden w. Home, fully fettle the
point. The jurifdi&ion of the Admiralty feems, likewife, to be
exfuive in many cafes, where the queftion of prize feems to beat refl ; as where the Admiralty has decided that a fhip taken is
noprize,ex.gratia,inthe cafe of a neutral veffel. In that cafe it is not
competent for a common law Court to fuftain a fuit for the illegal capture, but a new libel is exhibited in the Admiralty, to
compel the captors to account to the captured, 4 Term. R.
38,$.

Y66
-1792.
4

CAsEs ruled and adjudged is the

389. So in the cafe of Le Caum verfus Eden, ana.lion for fai:
imprifonment would not lie at Common Law, where the.
imprifonment was merely in confequence of taking a fhip asprize,
although theftip had been acquitted. I know. of but one cafe,
where the common law Courts have fuftained faits for money
paid out of the Court of Admiralty, in confequence of a taking_
as prize; and that is, where the Admiralty has fully liquidated
all demands relating to the proceeds of a prize, and the money
remains in the hands of the agents of the captors.. In fuch.
cafes, a&ions at law have been Tupported againft the, agents ;
'but it muff be afcertained that thefe are the agents of the real,
captors 3 for, if any thing is left for the Admiralty to fettle, as
if other perfons not reprefented by the agents claim any part. of
the proceeds, there the Qourts of Law will not interfere. And.
this was the cafe of Camden verfus Home. 4 Tekm Rep. 382.
What is the cafe before us ? A judge of an inferior Court
of Admiralty conderfins a priz, declares who are the.captorsi.
and orders a diftribution accordingly. On appeal to the Superior Court of Admiralty, that Court reverfes his judgment, and
dire&s a different difiributidn. The Judge below refufes to
obe.y the fentence, and perfifts in diftributing the proceeds, o.
the prize agreeably to his own decree.- A fuit is brought herej
to compel the Judge to perform the decree of the SuperiorCourt. Was the cafe, or queftion', of prize at reft, or was there.
not fomething now to be done by the Superior Court to enforcethe fentence? Can, ours be a proper Court to decide between
the fentences of two contending Courts of Admirailty, or toenforce the fentence of either ? It is in vain to fay, the timeswere fuch, that.the Supreme Court could not, or would not, proceed to extremities with the Judg6 of the inferior Court. We are
not authorifed to aid a defeaive,,or unwillingjurifdiaion, by affuming an extraordinary power, unknown to the law. Can a,
judge, in the execution of his own'judgment,'although rontrary to that of a fuperior Court, -be confidered as in the fituation
of an agent receiving the money of his conftituents ? Or, if by
any firained conftruetion he could be called the agent of thofe
in whofefavor he decrees, can he be fued as the agent of thofe
agaie/.whorn he decrees ? In whatever light I view this queftion, I am fatisfied, that the Court of Common Pleas were incompetent to carry into effe&t the decree of the reverfal of the fu-.
perior Court of Appeals, and that an a&ion for money, had and
received againft the Judge, who diftributed the money according to his own decree, could not be fuftained in a Court of law.
YEATEs, 7uflice. On the ftatement of faas 'n this cafe,
three points have occurred.
if. Whether the Court of Appeals of the United States ha&
I
juddfdiion ia the cafe of the floop A4ive ?_

SunxxE Cauxr oiF

PehnfyIvania.

r6

,
Lancer,
Pleas, at and
Court of
the a&ion
2d. Whether
a- 179g
others,had
Gideon Umflead,
by Common
in the
jurifdi&ion
gainft the now plaintiffs ?
are damnified, fo as to warrant
3 d. Whether the plaintiffs
all the circumftances of the
under
proceedings,
prefent
the
cafe ?
I will confider the different points, inverfedly.
On the 3d. point, I am fatisfied by the authorities cited by
the plaintiffs' counfel, that there is fufficient proof of a damnification, to warrant the fuit in a common cafe. The
non-payment of money at the day, is a forfeiture of a counter
bond. i Vent. 261. Cro. .9l. 672. Putting the obligee in danger
of being arrefted is a damnification. 3 Bubfl. 233. 5 Co.
25. Crc. Jac. 340.
It was admitted, indeed. on the laft argument, that the proceedings at Lancafler fhould be confidered as evidence of a
damnification ; but that the defendant flhould be let into a full
defence in this a&ion. No notice having been given to this defendant of the inftitution of the fuit againit the now plaintiff,
he is not ftopped from faying, that they were not bound in the
former aclon, to pay the money.
On the fecond point, it has been infifted by the defendant's
counfel, that the Courts of Admiralty having exclufive. jurifdi&ion in cafes of prize and their confequences, the Common
Pleas at LancaJ7er could have bad no cognizance of the a&ion
commenced by Gideon UmJread, and others.
In the famous cafe of Le Caux v. Eden, WILLFS, 7ujcefays : " Where the injury is the neceffary and natural confequence of the-capture, the Court of Admiralty has the fole and
exclufive jurifdi&ion." Doug. 579. AsHURST, Jujlice, obferves; " where the Admiralty has jurifdiftion of the original
" matter, it ought alfo to have jurifdi&ion of every thing neceffalb. 58o. BULLER,Juflice, in a very elaborate
" rily incidental."
all the adjudged cafes, "that the Admiralty
from
infers
argument
" has a jurifdi&ion on the queftion of prize or notprize, and its
none."
" confequences, and that the common law Courts have
.1B. 587. 59 o . And in Smart & WFolf, the words of Judge
BULLER, are; "every cafe that I know on the fubje&, is a clear
CCauthority to (hew, that queftions of prize and their confec quences are foltly and exclufively of the Admiralty jurifdicc tion." 3 Term. Rep. 344.
In Lord Camden et al. v. Home, it is adjudged, that the prize
Courts, and Courts of CommilTioners of Appeal, have the fole
and exchufive jurif4iffion of the queftion of prize and nQ prize,
and who are the raptors. 4 Term. Rep. 3 82.
In Done's adminiftratrix v.Penhallow, and at I ball. ReO.22 L.
Mr. Proident exprefes .hinfelf thm: In this caufe, It the vali,,dity

168 2792.

t&sns ruled -and adjudged in the,

dity of the fentence of the Court of Appeals is difputed. If we
fay, it is Yalid, we, in effec, fay, the brigantine isno prize ; if
otherwife, we fay fhe was a prize. We have clearly r1o autho'c rity to fay either the One orthe other." And again; "this is an
, a6tiorr to carry into execution the fentence of the Court of
Appeals, which we have no iuthority to do, that being the
" proper judicature to carry into effe& its own fentences."
Thefe adjudications militate ftrongly againft the jurifdi4lion
of the Court of Common Pleas of LancaJget County. The
caufe of a6tion there, was" the immediate and neceffary confec' quence of the veffel'sbeingtaken as aprize." i Dall.Rep. 22I
It-was, in fhort, a demand inftituted by the plaintiffs, as fole cap.
tors, of the floop A4ize..
But it has been contended by the plaintiffs' counfel, that here
all parties affirm the fame thing, to wit, that the floop was a
prize, and that queflion cannot now poffibly arife ; which is
Laid to diftinguifh it from the feveral cafes cited. And for this
purpofe, Henderfon v. Clarkfon, determined in this Court, is quotled ; where the Court held, that an agent for feamen might re,.
cover at common law the prize money, due under the decree
of tlie- Court of Admiralty of Pennfylvania.
I find from my notes, that the circumftances were as follow:
The plaintiffwas appointed agent for forty-three feamen, on
board the privateer brig Iolkier, to receive their prize money.
The defendant was Marfhall of the Court of Admiralty of
Pennfylvania, where two of the prizes were libelled, condemned,
and fold. The plaintiff, on the 27th December, 178 r, gave a
bond to the Commonwealth in C25a penalty, conditioned to
account faithfully with the feamen, and to pay over the fhares
unclaimed, within one year, to the ufe of the corporation of
contributors to the Pennfylvania Hofpital. The Judge of the Admiralty, on that day, alfo, iffued a writ to the defetdants, to deli.
ver over the goods and money due to the owners, and feamen)
or their agents, on the different prizes ; to which he made return, that the goods and money were ready to be delivered over.
-That fUit was brought to recover the prize money due to the
plaintiff's conftituents: The Marfiall had paid a confiderable
pait, and rendered his account, but fame of the items therein
were difputed. The Court on full argument refolved, that the
agent might, as a common head or center for the captors, and
Hofpital, under the right acquired by the a&t of A ffembly, of
the 8th of Mlarch , and-22d &ptember, 1780, inflitute a fuit in his
own name, as the captors themfelves mighi have done ; and
as the queftion refpefting - prize or no prize" could not come
into controvrfy, he might recover the money dudto them, by the
Admiralty decree; they having a velted intereft therein, under
the
"

..,v~'..i

Sur Lm'E Coov'r oF Penqr5lvania,

the aks of Congrefs, and-the Legiflature.

x69

The Marfhall had

t 791.

ready
returied to the Judge, that he had the goods and money
this was held
and
;
agent
their
or
captors,
the
to
delivered
be
to
plaintifl
to amount to a written promife, to pay the fame to the

.Hendefon, as agent of the feamen.*

The two cafes are not analogous ; they poffefs diftina proniment features: In the former cafe, there was -no queftion,
who were-the captors, or how the booty was to be divided
there were no difcordant decrees of different marine Courts
no difpute refpe&ing the conftitutional powers of the judicature, which pronounced the final decree.
Here they all fully exift; and a common Law Court at Lan-of
Court
the
of
decree
the
itr,was called on, to carry into execution
,of Appeals, againft the executors of the State Judge, and in deation of the decree he had given, fan&ioned by the verdi& of
rojury.
a
not effentially neceffary to give an
On 'the firfi point, it is.
opinion, whether, if the refolve of Congrefshad been abfolute and

imperative, inflead of being barely recommendatory, as to the efta-

bliffiment of Courts of Admiralty in the different flates, and
the laws of any-one State had been repugnant thereto, fuch refoluti'on would be fupreme, and controul the law of the indivjidual State :Nor fhall I attempt to define the former powers of Co;grefs, by fixing how far they reached, anteriorto the confederawtion ; which was fent to the different States for ratification oni
the 1 7 th NAov. 1777, and finally acceded to by M'aryland on the
r ft of Mlarch 178 1. I am, however, tompellkd to fay, that the
powers of Congrefs mufi neceffarily be fuppofed to have been
co-extenfive with the great objeCts which America then had it,
view, and competent to prote& and advance the united intereftS
of the whole. It is fufficient in my idea, for the decifion of tht
cafe before us, to obfeare, that the prefent fuit felting on the
judgment in Lancafter county as its bafis, if the then plaintifft
were not legally entitled to recover againfl the executors of Mr.
George Rofs, the ation naw. before the Court is not fuftainable,
3 Term Rep. 377. I have only to add, that it would alfo have
affbrded me much pleafure, if this argument had been conduite&
before the Judges of the Supreme Court of the United States.

We formerly indulged eurfelve3 with hopes of-it, when the jury
were.difcharged in an affion between the now plaintiffs 'and
Thomas Leaming, in J7anuary tern laft, when the fame points
came in queftion. We may be confidered, in fome remote degree, as parties in the prefentfuit, a-d the decifion of the Federal
judges would probably have given more general fatistffion.
our opinion i and. we are bound
But the parties have infifted on"Y
to
See the cafe of'Hendrson v. Clar son herealluded to, Post, 174.
f iecate of Ross. cial. Executors v. litenkausehasteen inferted,

by

Rii[lak , of tbe term whotlit was ,'rlucd, not when it was dicidt .

176

CAsEs rdled and adjudged in the

1792 -. to give it. On tbh beft confideration, therefore, that
I have
t.oy
been able to beftow on the fubje&, I find myfelf conftrained
to
give my voice, that judgment be rendered for the defendant.
MARSHALL Verf

MOTGO-r
.
y , et a.

rrHIS was an a~tion for Seamcn's wages. The Plaintiff
JL fhipped himfelf on board the defendant's hip on a
from Phiadelphiato Havanna, from thence to Cadiz, andvoyage
from
Cadiz back to Philadelphia. On the fhip's arrival at Havanna,
embargo was laid, and the fhip detained a confiderable time. an
A
plan being formed-for the redu&ion of New-Providence, a pro'
pofal was made to the American captains, and among the reft
to the defendant, to accompany the Spanj/3 troops ; for which
fervice they were to receive ten dollars and a halt per ton, per
month, and to be freed from the embargo. A gratuity was
alfo to be given to the captains. The defendant, with the reft
the American captains, agreed to go, and Providencewas takenof
;
but no provifions being to be had, the fbip failed afterwards
for'Philadelphia,and on her way was captured by the enemy. The
wages of the feamen had been paid at the Havanna, until the
fhip was ready to fail for Cadiz, and the embargo laid. The
tonnage was paid, but loft on the capture of the fhip.
Rawle contended, that it was clear, that feamen's wages muft
be paid during an embargo, and cited PJarke's lnfur. 142.
1
.Magewx. 68. 11Y,,,_et. 59 o . I Term. Re p. Z32, in noti . That the
voyage to New Providence is to be confidered as a new voyagei
as it was not the voyage contra&ed for. Tho' a voyage be
tered, wages are ftill due. Freight, it is true, is the mother alof
wages. Afp. 112. 3. but freight means nothing but the earning
of the veTel.
Lewis,& ilghman urged, that as the veffel was not entitled
to freight, no wages were due: That the voyage was not
diftin6t one, and that the lofs of the veffiel put an end to thea
claims of the feanren.
BY THE COURT :-Here is a new voyage commence.with
thae affent of the failors. The queffion is, was this a new voyage
to Philadep5hiawith leave to touch at Providence, or was it one
voyage to Providence, and another to Philadelphia. Th- SpanA
intendant agreed to pay 10. 1-2 dollars per ton, and they
received it. The interidant calls it freight: It is certainly a compenfation for the ufe of the veffel ; it is an earning by the owners, and the whole obje& of this voyage was completed
at
rew
Providence. This may Ile confidered, in the fpjirit of the
law, as a port of delivery. With the lofs, which happened
aftoiwvards, the tailors have ii concern. We confidcr this as
a

diftiint

