COULTER v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. CO. 599
190 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

the steamer sailing to that port, and subject to the stipulations, exceptions and conditions in those bills. We see no
occasion to consider the questions which might be raised if
the same stipulations were contained m the bills of lading to
New York. See Lnverpool Steam Co. v Phenx Insurance Co.,
129 U S. 397, 463, Inman v South Carolina Ry., 129 U S.
128, Phenx Insurance Co.-v Ere & Western Transportatwn
Co., 117 U. S. 312.
Decree affirmed.
COULTER v. LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 244. Argued November 29, 30, 1904.-Decided February 20,1905.
A railroad company in Kentucky claimed as its only ground of Federal
jurisdiction in an action in the Circuit Court of the United States against
members of the state board of valuation and assessment that under the
tax laws of the State it was deprived of equal protection of the laws
contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment, because while the law of the
State required all property to be taxed at its fair cash value there was
a uniform and general undervaluation of other property but the company's property was taxed at its full value. There was conflicting testimony as to the valuatibns, most of the members of the board testifying
that they tried in good faith to reach fair cash values. Held, that:
The court will not intervene merely on the ground of a mistake in judgment
on the part of the officer to whom the duty of assessment was entrusted
by the law.
It is not beyond the power of a State, so far as the Federal Constitution is
concerned, to tax the franchise of a corporation at a different rate from
the tangible property in the State.
Where the only constitutional ground on which the complainant can come
mto the Circuit Court obviously fails the court should be very cautious
in interfering with the State's administration of its taxes upon other
considerations which would not have given it jurisdiction.

THE facts are stated m the opinion.

Mr Win. 0 Dams and Mr Henry L. Stone, with whom
Mr Napoleon B. Hays, Attorney General of the State of
Kentucky, was on the brief, for appellants:

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Appellants.

196 U. S.

The Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of this action.
The state board had made the final assessment of appellee's
franchise, and the auditor had given appellee the statutory
notice thereof, and it is not shown that appellants, being the
auditor, treasurer, and secretary of state, constituting said
board, had any further statutory power or authority to enforce the collection of the unpaid part of the state taxes on
said assessment. Hence, appellee's suit was against the State
without its consent, and in violation of the Eleventh Amendment. Louisana v Jumel, 107 U S. 711, Ex parte Ayres,
123 U S. 443, Hans v Loumsana, 134 U S. 1, Coulter v Wer,
127 Fed. Rep. 897, Fitts v McGhee, 172 U S. 516, Arbuckle
v Blackburn, 113 Fed. Rep. 616.
The bill alleges that the amount in controversy in this action, without considering the local taxes, exceeds $2,000, but
there is no allegation stating the amount or value of the local
taxes due the counties, cities, towns, and taxing districts
exceed the sum of $2,000. Walter v Northwestern Railroad
Co., 147 U S. 370; Fishback v Western Unon Telegraph Co.,
161 U S. 96, Coulter v Fargo, 127 Fed. Rep. 912.
There being no diverse citizenship between the parties, the
bill does not show jurisdiction in the Circuit Court, on account
of the alleged denial of the equal protection of the laws within
the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment. Nash., Chatt. &
St. L. Ry. v Taylor, 86 Fed. Rep. 168, R. R. & Telephone Co. v.
Board of Equalization, 85 Fed. Rep. 302, Taylor v Loutsville
& Nashville R. R. Co., 88 Fed. Rep. 350; Loussville Trust Co. v.
Stone, 107 Fed. Rep. 305, Cummings v Merchants National
Bank, 101 U S. 153, Albuquerque Bank v Perea, 147 U S. 87.
The proof shows the assessment of appellee's franchise had
become final before this action was instituted.
The bill as amended does not state facts sufficient to entitle complainant to any relief in equity
The allegation in the amended bill that said assessors
"uniformly" assessed such property below its value for the
year 1902 is not sufficient to bring this case within the rule

COULTER r LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. CO. 601
196 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

announced in this class of cases by the Federal courts. Cases
supra and German Nat-onal Bank v Kimball, 103 U S. 732;
Pelton v Commercial Natwnal Bank, 101 U S. 143, New York
ex rel. v Barker, 179 U S. 279, State ex rel. v Western Unwn
Telegraph Co., 165 Missouri, 504, West. Un. Tel. Co. v Missouri,
187 U S. 412, Exchange Natwnal Bank v Miller, 19 Fed. Rep.
372.
The county assessors did not habitually and intentionally
nor fraudulently assess the property of individuals and corporations, not required to report to the board of valuation and
assessment, at less than its fair cash value, nor did the board
of equalization intentionally or fraudulently equalize the assessments of such property subject to equalization on the
basis of eighty per cent of its cash value for the year 1902.
If the allegations are sufficient to give jurisdiction to the
Circuit Court, and to constitute a cause of action, then the
proof falls short of what is required by the decisions of the
Federal courts in this class of cases before an injunction will
be granted interfering with the collection of the public revenues
of a State. Cin. So. Railway v Guenther, 19 Fed. Rep. 398,
Taylor v Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 88 Fed. Rep. 373,
New York ex rel. v Barker, 179 U S. 279.
If there was any actual discrimination between the assessments of property by the local assessing authorities as equalized
and those of appellee's franchise, it was sporadic, and not
designed or intentional.
The presumption is that the sworn assessing officers discharged their duties faithfully and as required by law, until
the contrary is clearly shown by a preponderance of the competent and relevant evidence.
The franchise or intangible property of the complainant
was not in fact assessed by the board of valuation and assessment at its full cash value, or at a sum in excess of eighty per
cent of such value for 1902. To ascertain the value of the
franchise or intangible property of a public service corporation two methods have been followed by the board of valua-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Argument for Appellants.

196 U. S.

tion and assessment, and approved by the courts, to wit:
the capitalization plan, whereby the total value of all the
property of the corporation is fixed at a sum which at six per
cent will produce the amount of the net income or earnings;
the stock and bond plan, whereby the total value of all the
property of the corporation is fixed at the market value of
the shares of stock and bonds. Henderson Bridge Co. v Commonwealth, 99 Kentucky, 641, S. C., 166 U S. 152; Louisville
Railway Co. v Commonwealth, 105 Kentucky, 722, Adams
Express Co. v Kentucky, 166 U S. 180; State Railroad Tax
Cases, 92 U S. 575, Commonwealth v Comngton & Cin. Bridge
Co., 70 S. W Rep. 849; West. Un. Tel. Co. v Taggart, 163
U S. 1.
Under either of these plans the value of the franchise or
intangible property of the corporation may be ascertained by
deducting from such total value the assessed value of its
tangible property, the remainder being considered the value
of its franchise or mtangible property
The share of Kentucky in the assessment of appellee's
property was more than twenty-six per cent, the percentage
adopted by the board of valuation and assessment, which
erroneously included as a part of the lines of the road that
appellee "operated, owned, leased or controlled" in that State
and elsewhere 1,044.21 miles of road belonging to other companies, in which appellee merely owned one-half or a majority
of the shares of stock. The road of another company in which
appellee owns a majority of the stock is not "controlled" by
the appellee within the meaning of the statute. United States
v Northern Securities Co., 120 Fed. Rep. 721, Pullman Palace
Car Co. v Mo. Pac. Railway Co., 115 U S. 587, Porterv Pittsburg &c. Co., 120 U S. 670; Am. Preservers Co. v Norrs, 43
Fed. Rep. 714, Exchange Bank v Macon &c. Co., 97 Georgia,
7, Atchison &c. Ry. v Cochran, 43 Kansas, 234, Louisville
Gas Co. v Kaufman, 105 Kentucky, 131.
The complainant, by reason of the action of the county
assessors and board of equalization or the board of valuation

COULTER v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. CO. 603
196 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

and assessment, has not been discriminated against or deied
the equal protection of the laws within the meaning of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States. King v Mullins, 171 U S. 436, Judson on Taxation,
§§ 437, 562, Head Money Cases, 112 U S. 595, Natonal.Bank
v Baltsmore, 100 Fed. Rep. 27, Bell's Gap R. Co. v Pennsylvania, 134 U S. 233, Merchants' &c. Bank v Pennsylvana, 167
U. S.464, Col. & So. R. Co. v Wright, 151 U S.478; Florida
Central &c. R. Co. v Reynolds, 183 U. S.476, Kentucky Railroad Cases, 115 U. S.321, Charlotte C & A. R. Co. v Gibbes,
142 U. S.386, Wagoner v Loomis, 37 Ohio St. 571, Lowell v
County Commssioners, 152 Massachusetts, 375, Cent. Railroad
Co. v State Board, 48 N. J L. 7, Louisville Railway Co. v.
Commonwealth, 105 Kentucky, 710.
Mr James P Helm, with whom Mr Helm Bruce was on
the brief, for appellee:
A State cannot through its administrative officers, intentionally, uniformly and systematically make some of its citizens bear, proportionately to their wealth, one-fifth more of
the burdens of state government than it requires of all the rest
of its citizens. Or, putting the proposition a little differently,
it is not competent to the State to make a certain class of its
citizens pay on the value of their property one dollar on the
hundred, for the support of the State, and require of all the
rest of the citizens that they should pay only eighty cents on
the hundred dollars, for the same purpose. It cannot do this
directly, and it ought to require no argument to prove that it
cannot do it indirectly In other words, great principles do
not depend upon mere form, but on substance.
The lower court after a prolonged and most careful consideration of the evidence finds no room to doubt that the
condition was the result of design. The language of the court
is that all the property in the State subject to equalization,
had been "systematically, habitually and intentionally undervalued to at least twenty per cent for the year 1902, first by

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opmnon of the Court.

196 U. S.

the local assessing officials and then by the equalizers." Spalding v Hill, 86 Kentucky, 656, see opinion of Taft, J., in Taylor
v Louville & Nashville Ry. Co., 88 Fed. Rep. 364, and authorities there referred to.
As to the effect of practical construction by those whoso
duty it is to execute a statute, see Harmson v Commonwealth,
83 Kentucky, 163, Louisville v Barbour, 83 Kentucky, 95,
Clark's Run v Commonwealth, 96 Kentucky, 532; City v Garr,
97 Kentucky, 588.
As to the meaning of the word" controlled," see United States
v Northern Securities Co., 120 Fed. Rep. 721, and cases cited.
Appellants insist that the board of valuation and assessment assessed the property of the appellee at less than its real
value. It surely could not be contended by the appellee that
they were guilty of fraud or wrongdoing, in making the assessment, and it is not so contended. On the contrary they say
that they in good faith endeavor to assess the property at its
full and fair cash value. Under these circumstances the cases
of P., C., C &c. R. Co. v Backus, 154 U S. 434,. West. Un.
Tel. Co. v Taggart, 163 U S. 1, Adams Express Co. v Ohio,
165 U S. 2, are conclusive that whenever a question of fact
is thus submitted to the determination of a special tribunal,
its decision creates something more than a mere presumption
of fact, and if such determination comes into inquiry before
the courts, it cannot be overthrown by evidence going only
to show that the fact was otherwise than was found and
determined. On this branch of the case we do not feel justified in going into the evidence in detail for the purpose of
showing that the valuation of the appellee's property fixed
by the board of valuation and assessment was a full value.
That question is fully discussed by the lower court in its
opinion.
MR. JUSTICE HoLmvs delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill brought by the railroad company, appellee, a

COULTER v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. CO. 605
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Kentucky corporation, against citizens of Kentucky, the members of the state board of valuation and assessment, and
respectively auditor of public accounts, treasurer and secretary
of state. The only ground of jurisdiction alleged is that under
the tax laws of the State of Kentucky, as administered by its
executive officers, the railroad company is deprived of the
equal protection of the laws contrary to the Fourteenth
Amendment. The constitution of the State requires all property not exempted from taxation to be assessed at its fair cash
value, but the bill alleges that the county assessors uniformly
assess the property assessed by them, which is the great body
of tangible property in the State, below its cash value. It
alleges that, in like manner, the board of equalization equalizes the county assessments at a percentage not above eighty
per cent of the fair cash value of the property taxed. On the
other hand the defendants, who assess the franchise tax on the
railroad company, are alleged to have assessed the company's
property in Kentucky at its full value, viz., $33,788,724.50,
for the year 1902, and then, deducting the tangible property
locally taxed, $23,103,825, to have made the taxable franchise $10,774,899.50. Whereas, if eighty per cent of the value
of the company's property had been taken, then, deducting
as before, the taxable franchise would be only a little over
four million dollars.
The railroad company contends that when there is a uniform
and general undervaluation of other property, then the only
way in which the company can be put on an equality with
other taxpayers is by a similar undervaluation in its case.
The railroad company contends further that although this
contravenes the letter of the statute, the requirement of
equality so far outweighs the requirement of a tax on the
full value of property, that if by misconduct elsewhere both
cannot be observed, the rule of equality must prevail. It
should be mentioned that the franchise tax is both state and
local, and that after the same has been laid and apportioned
between the State and county, etc., by the defendants, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opnion of the Court.

196 U. S.

state auditor, who is one of them, certifies to the county clerks
their proportion of the tax. The bill prays for an injunction
against such an apportionment and certification, and also
against collection by the officers of the State. There was a
general demurrer to the bill and an answer and replication.
The demurrer was overruled. Much evidence was taken, and
at the final hearing a decree was entered by the Circuit Court
enjoining the defendants as prayed, and requiring the defendant Hager, treasurer of the State, to execute a receipt in full
of the state taxes on the franchise for 1902, the plaintiff haying paid the sum which was due on its view of the case. 131
Fed. Rep. 282. The defendants appealed to this court. It
may be assumed from an affidavit filed, if not from the pleadags, that the amount in controversy is over $2,000. See
United States v Trans-Missouri Freight Associatwn, 166 U S.
290, 310.
From a consideration of different kinds of evidence the
Circuit Court reached the conclusion that the county assessors
had systematically and intentionally undervalued the property
assessed by them. In the first place it found a settled habit
of undervaluing, recognized by the legislature and the state
court, before the adoption of the Constitution of 1891, which
required the fair cash value to be assessed. It found that
while the value of land had increased or, at least, had not
diminished since 1891, the assessments had varied very little.
while those of 1891 were not more than seventy per cent of the
value at any time. It considered testimony that from 1893
to 1896 the assessments were equalized at seventy per cent,
following earlier statutes, notwithstanding the constitution of
1891. It then compared tabulated statements of sales in the
different counties, which were required by statute to be furnished to the board of equalization, with the local assessments
and with the results reached by the last named board. It thus
found an additional and independent reason for believing that
there was systematic undervaluation in the counties, and it
inferred from comparisons and from testimony to that effect

COULTER v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. CO. 607
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that the board paid little attention to the tabulated statements, even on a basis of eighty per cent, but really was governed by the assessment of the previous year. Finally it
confirmed its conclusions by direct testimony as to the practice
in certain counties and the rules practically adopted by the
board. The reasoning is careful and elaborate and cannot be
read without an impression that probably it is correct to the
extent of establishing a general undervaluation of land.
On the other hand, there was testimony that the statements
of sales did not afford satisfactory evidence of average values,
or at least, for various reasons, were not regarded by the board
of equalization as affording it: Most of the members of the
board testified that they tried in good faith to reach fair cash
values, and there were many affidavits to a like effect as to
the past and present conduct of the county assessors. It was
sworn that, so far as percentages of the reported sales were
used, they were used on an estimate of what proportion actual
values would bear to the sums named in the deeds. The Circuit Court, while regarding it as the condition of equitable
relief that the property other than that of the plaintiff should
have been undervalued systematically and intentionally,
hardly dealt with this evidence in its bearing on the question
of intent. Yet, of course, no court would venture to intervene merely on the ground of a mistake of judgment on the
part of the officer to whom the duty of assessment was entrusted by the law
The other half of the plaintiff's case is that its franchise was
valued at its full cash value. It might even require consideration, if necessary, whether it ought not to be shown
further that the appellants, in valuing the franchise, consciously adopted a different standard from that which they
understood to be adopted in the counties. On the foregoing
questions one of the three appellants testified that he had
dissented from the majority on several occasions, believing
that the assessments were higher than those for other kinds
of property, and that he understood that the majority assessed

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

196 U. S.

the franchise at its full value. One testified that he thought
at the time, and still thought, that the franchise was valued
lower than it ought to be. The third was not explicit, but
showed that the valuation was reduced after hearing. Different well known modes were used in approaching the valuation, but probably there was an element of arbitrary judgment at the end. This certainly was the case m regard to the
proportion of mileage m the State, which, by the statutes, was
to "be considered" in fixing the value of the franchise, and
which the appellants contend was underestimated so much
as to compensate for any other mistake, if there was any,
which is denied.
We need not stop to show that so much of the bill as seeks
an injunction against collecting the state tax, and the portion
of the decree which orders a receipt to be executed on the part
of the State, cannot be maintained. See Coulter v Wezr, 127
Fed. Rep. 897, 906, 912. On the other hand, in a proper case,
a bill may be brought to restrain apportionment and certification to the counties. Fargo v Hart, 193 U S. 490, 495, 503.
The question is whether such a case has been made out, and
we may assume for purposes of decision, without deciding,
that, if we otherwise agreed with the railroad company's contention, the injunction might be granted, although the franchise was valued as the law required in every respect except
in the proportion which the assessment bore to the other
valuations. The decisions are not agreed upon this point.
We have stated as much as we deem necessary to the answering of the question just put. It must be obvious on even that
short statement how uncertain are the elements of the evidence
and in what unusual paths it moves. On the face of their
records the proceedings of the defendants, of the county
assessors and of the equalizing board all are regular. If it be
a fact that the franchise of a Kentucky corporation is taxed at
a different rate from the tangible property in the State, there
can be no question that the State had power to tax it at a
different rate, so far as the Constitution of the United States

COULTER v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. CO. 609
196 U. S.

Opnion of the Court.

is concerned. Bell's Gap R. R. v Pennsylvania, 134 U S. 232,
Merchants' & Manufacturers' Bank v Pennsylvania, 167 U. S.
461, 464, Magoun v Illinois Trust and Sanngs Bank, 170 U. S.
283, 295. It is doubtful, at least, if any further question
should have been asked in this case. Missouri,v Dockery, 191
U. S. 165. But as the claun of right under the United States
Constitution was not merely colorable, Penn. Mut. Life Ins.
Co. v Austin, 168 U S. 685, 695, and as the evidence is here,
we have considered the evidence also, and our conclusion from
that, as well as from the law, is that the bill must be dismissed.
Looking first at the assessment of the franchise, there is no
such certainty that it was made on a different scale of values
from that adopted elsewhere, as would warrant an attack upon
it under the Fourteenth Amendment, even if otherwise that
attack could be maintained. But the supposed infringement
of the Fourteenth Amendment is the only ground on which
the railroad company could come into the Circuit Court, and
if that ground fails, and obviously fails, the court should be
very cautious, at least, in interfering with the State's administration of its taxes upon other considerations which would
not have given it jurisdiction.
The undervaluation in the counties, looked at from the point
of view just indicated, also does not appear to have been such
as to warrant the action of the court. It is not contended that
a mere undervaluation would be enough. It is admitted that
it must have been systematic and intentional. There is, no
doubt, a natural inclination to think such an undervaluation
probable when it is suggested. But what is the proof? The
state constitution, whatever the statutes may have said, seems
popularly to have been understood to have made a great
change in the law Practice before its adoption, therefore
hardly can raise a presumption as to practice afterwards,
even on the liberal assumption that it properly could be considered in evidence. It is obvious that the accidental sales
in a given year may be a misleading guide to average values,
VOL. oxcvi-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

196 U. S.

apart from the testimony that some at least of the conveyances did not report true prices,, yet they furnish the chief
weapon of attack. The testimony as to the board of equalization taking eighty per cent of the reported sales, was explained
by the members of the board. It would be going very far to
assume that they were committing perjury because to another
mmd the sales seemed more significant and the explanations
not very good. Inequality, we repeat, is nothing, unless it
was in pursuance of a scheme. To make out that scheme the
anomalous course was followed of putting members of a tribunal established by law upon the witness stand to testify
to the operations of their minds in doing the work entrusted
to them. Fayerweather v Ritch, 195 U S. 276, 306, 307
But the prevailing testimony was that no such scheme was
entertained.
Whatever we may surmise or apprehend, making allowance
for a certain vagueness of ideas to be expected in the lay mind,
for the reasonable differences of opinion among the most instructed and competent men, and for the uncertainty of the
elements from which a judgment was to be formed m the first
instance, considering the still greater uncertainty of those from
which the local judgment must be controlled, if at all, by persons having only the printed record before them, considering
further that to maintain the bill imputes perjury to many
witnesses whose character is not impeached, and finally recalling once more that we are dealing with a case that properly
was not cognizable in the Circuit Court, we are of opinion that
the bill must be dismissed.
Decree reversed.

