OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Counsel for Parties.

]96 U. S.

say- "In such cases the courts of the United States are not
required to follow the decision of state courts." The distinction made by counsel we cannot adopt. Whether a statute of
a State is or is not a revenue measure certainly depends upon
the construction of that statute. Besides, if in any case we
should lean to an agreement with the state court, this is such
a case. There is no Federal right involved. The question is
one strictly of the state law; and the power of one of the
municipalities of the State under that law If we should yield
to the contention of counsel we should give greater power to
one of the municipalities of the State than the law of the State,
as construed by the Supreme Court of the State, would give
it. We should enforce against petitioner a tax which the
Supreme Court of the State, construing a state law, would not
enforce. The result of the contention indicates its error.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings
rn conformity with this opmnwn.

WHEELER v. PLUMAS COUNTY
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
iNo. 122. Submitted January 12, 1905.-Decided February 20, 1905.

Decided on authority of Flanigan v Sierra Counly, ante, p. 553.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr C C Cole, Mr Joseph C Campbell and Mr Thomas
U. Breeze for petitioners.'
Mr U S. Webb and Mr L. N Peter for respondent.'
'Submitted simultaneously with Flaniganv. Sierra County. FQr abstract
of arguments see ante, p. 553,

McCAFFREY v. MANOGUE.
Syllabus.

196 U. S.

MR.

JUSTICE MOKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case was submitted with Plansgan v Sierra County.
It is also an action for the recovery of a sum of $2,100, alleged
to be due for license tax, and $50 damages. The taxes were
unposed under an ordinance of the county of Plumas, substantially similar to the ordinance passed on in Flanigan v
Sierra County. The action was brought in the Superior Court
of Plumas County and removed, upon the petition of the petitioners herein, to the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of California. In that court, petitioners demurred to the complaint, which, being overruled, and they declining to answer,
judgment was taken against them by default. It was affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The questions are identical with those passed on in Flansgan
v Sierra County, and on the authority of that case the
Judgment s reversed and cause remanded for further proceed'Ings.

McCAFFREY v. MANOGUE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 131.

Argued January 17,18, 1905.-Decided February 20, 1905.

The policy of the law in favor of the heir yields to the intention of the testator
if clearly expressed or manifested. The rule of law that a devise of
lands without words of limitation or description gives a life estate only,
does not apply, and devises will be held to be of the fee, where it is plain
that the testator's intention was to dispose of his whole estate equally
between his heirs, and there is no residuary clause indicating that he intended passing less than all of his estate, and all of his heirs at law are
devisees under the will.

