SLAVENS c. UNITED STATES.
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

SLAVENS v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 228. Argued December 7, 8,1904.-Decided January 9,1905.

Under the mail contract in this case, which was made in pursuance of the
Postal Laws and Regulations, and after the service had materially decreased by changed methods of transporting mail and the Postmaster
General had offered the contractor, who had refused to accept it, the
remaining work at a lower compensation, it was within the power of the
Postmaster General to put an end to the contract by order of discontinuance, allowing one month's pay as indemnity, and to relet the remaming service; the power to terminate the contract on allowing amonth's
pay as indemnity was not predicated on an abandonment of the entire
service.
While the provisions in a similar contract that the contractor should perform without additional compensation all new or changed service that
the Postmaster General should order, might not be construed as extending to services of different character and not within the terms of the
contract, where the changed service is to take the mail to and from street
cars, met at crossings, instead of landings and stations, it comes withinthe
power reserved to the Postmaster General and the contractor is not entitled to additional compensation therefor.
In the absence of authority shown, a local postmaster has no power or authority to contract in respect to mail messenger service, and is not the
agent of nor can he bind the Government for that purpose, and if a contractor performs services which he protests against as not being within
his contract, solely on the postmaster's order, he is not entitled to extra
compensation therefor after his protest has been sustained and the service let to others.

THE appellant filed his petition m the Court of Claims to
recover for the alleged wrongful termination of certain mail
contracts in the cities of Boston, Brooklyn and Omaha, and,
also, for extra services performed in connection therewith.
The Court of Claims, in disposing of the case, made separate
findings of fact and conclusions of law The findings of fact
may be abridged for the purpose of this case, reference being
made for fuller details to the findings in the Court of Claims.
38 C. C1. 574. In pursuance of an advertisement for proposals
for transporting the mails--" covered regulation wagon, mail,

OCTO13ER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

messenger and mail station service "-the appellant entered
into contracts for four years each for the cities of Boston and
Brooklyn, and two years for the city of Omaha. The Boston
and Brooklyn contracts began on July 1, 1893, and the Omaha
contract on July 1, 1894. Compensation for the Boston contract was at the rate of $49,516 per annum, for the Brooklyn
contract, $18,934 per annum, and for the Omaha contract at
$3,780 per annum. During the terms of the Boston and
Brooklyn contracts the Postmaster General determined to
carry certain of the mails within the district contracted for
on electric street railway lines. In both cases the appellant
was offered the privilege of continuing the contract for the
reduced service, but refused to do so in each case. The Postmaster General terminated the Boston and Brooklyn contracts,
above referred to, the former on February 1, 1896, the latter
on March 1, 1896, acting, as he avers, under the authority
vested in him by law and the contract between the parties, but
not because of any negligence or default on the part of the
contractor. He afterwards relet the same service, as thus
reduced, to another contractor, for the remaining period of
the contract of the seventeen months of the Boston contract,
at the compensation of $37,000 per annum. The difference
between the contract price and the amount it would cost the
appellant to furnish the service in Boston during said seventeen
months would be $18,884.14. The service of the Brooklyn
contract for the remaining period of sixteen months was let
to another contractor at a compensation of $9,720 per annum.
The court did not find the amount of the loss to the appellant
by reason of the termination of this contract. The contracts
contained certain stipulations, as set forth in the opinion.
The contracts covered certain specified stations, landings
and mail stations from which the contractor was required to
carry the mail, and during the terms of such contracts he was
required to perform certain services, which he alleges to be
extra services, and for which he was entitled to extra compensation-in the Boston contract, carrying the mails from the gen-

SLAVENS v. UNITED STATES.
196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

eral post office in the city of Boston to the stopping places of
the street car lines of the railway company from May 1, 1895,
until February 1, 1896. Also, carrying the mails between the
Back Bay post office and the Brookline office, a distance of
from two and a half to three miles, which services were not
included in the terms of the contract, but which he was required to perform by the postmaster of the city of Boston,
against his protest. The contractor did not protest to the
Postmaster General or any officer of the Post Office Department until August 14, 1899. Whereupon the Postmaster General dispensed with the service by the appellant, and entered
into a contract with another contractor, to perform the service.
Under the Brooklyn contract, which contained specifications
as to the places between which the mail had to be carried during the term of the contract, the contractor was required to
perform service between the Brooklyn post office and the mail
routes established on the street car lines, and between the
motor routes and the mail stations. Under the Omaha contract appellant was required, in addition to the places specifically named in the contract, to carry the mail to and from
street cars of the Omaha Street Railway at-its crossings. It
also appears that under the three contracts the new service
required, in lieu of the service specified in the contract, was
much less in mileage required than was the service stipulated
by the original contract. The Court of Claims dismissed the
petition, 38 C. Cl. 574, and the claimant appeals to this court.
Mr A. A. Hoehling, Jr., for appellant.
Mr Special Attorney Joseph Stewart, with whom Mr Asszst&
ant Attorney General Pradt was on the brief, for the United
States.
Mn. JusTicE DAY, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
From the foregoing statement of facts it is evident that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

case resolves itself into three propositions: (1) Can the appellant
recover for the alleged wrongful termination of his contracts
by the Postmaster General? (2) Under the contracts were the
services performed in carrying mails from the street cars, at
the places designated, extra services for which compensation
outside of the contract should be awarded? (3) Under the
Boston contract did the service required in carrying the mails
to and from Brookline constitute extra service, for which
compensation should be awarded?
To determine the first proposition it is essential to have in
mind certain provisions of the statute, the preliminary notice
to bidders, and, most important of all, the terms of the contract itself. In the notice to bidders it is said.
"There will be no diminution of compensation for partial
discontinuance of service or increase of compensation for new,
additional or changed service that may be ordered during the
contract term, but the Postmaster General may discontinue
the entire service on any route whenever the public interest,
in his judgment, shall require such discontinuance, he allowing, as full indemnity to the contractor, one month's extra
pay "
In the contract it is stipulated.
"It is hereby stipulated and agreed by the said contractor
and his sureties that the Postmaster General may change the
schedule and termini of the route, vary the routes, increase,
decrease, or extend the service thereon, without change of
pay; and that the Postmaster General may discontinue the
entire service whenever the public interest, in his judgment,
shall require such discontinuance, but for a total discontinuance of service the contractor shall be allowed one month's
extra pay as full indemnity"
Section 817, Revised Statutes, Postal Laws and Regulations, 1887, provides:
"The Postmaster General may discontinue or curtail the
service on any route, in whole or in part, in order to place on
the route superior service, or whenever the public interests,

SLAVENS r UNITED STATES.
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in his judgment, shall require such discontinuance or curtailment for any other cause, he allowing as full indemnity to the
contractor one month's extra pay on the amount of service
dispensed with, and a pro rata compensation for the amount
of service retained and continued."
Under the power supposed to be conferred upon him by the
terms of the contract, made in pursuance of the preliminary
advertisement and the authority vested in hun by the Postal
Laws and Regulations, above cited, the Postmaster General,
having decreased the service under the contract, by reason of
the introduction of the method of carrying the mails on the
street railways, until the service required originally would be
much more than paid for by the compensation agreed upon,
discontinued the original service, and, the contractor declining to perform the work remaining at the lower compensation,
put an end to the contract by an order of discontinuance,
allowing the contractor one month's extra pay as full indemnity It is contended by the appellant that this contract,
properly construed, while it permits the Postmaster General
to make changes in the schedule and termini of the route, to
reduce the same, to increase, decrease or extend the service,
without change of pay, does not confer the right to cancel the
contract except upon abandoning the entire service, which
may be done with the allowance of one month's extra pay to
the contractor. But, it is insisted, so long as any part of the
service remains to be performed, it is not within the power of
the Postmaster General to put an end to the service of the
contractor and relet a part of it to another, substituting a
different character of service for a part of the field theretofore covered by the contract. In other words, it is contended
that the total discontinuance of service, which only can terminate the contract, must not leave any service to be performed
in the district covered.
We cannot accede to this narrow construction of the powers
given the Postmaster General by the terms of this contract.
He is given general power to increase, decrease or extend the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

196 U. S.

service contracted for, without change of pay Furthermore,
whenever the public interests in his judgment require it, he
may discontinue the entire service. We think the advertisement and the regulations under which this contract was made
and the contract as entered into were intended to permit the
Postmaster General, when in his judgment the public interest
requires it, to terminate the contract, and if a service of a
different character has become necessary in his opinion, to put
an end to the former service upon the stipulated indemnity of
one month's extra pay being given to the contractor. It is
not reasonable to hold that the power given to the Postmaster
General for the public interest can only be exercised when the
mail service in the district is to be entirely abandoned. In
the present case the contract was for mail service in three
cities of importance, two of them among the large cities of the
country, and all of them thriving and growing communities.
It is hardly possible that the parties, in making this contract,
could have had in view a time when the mail service would be
dispensed with.

On the other hand, the condition which the

contract contemplated, and which in fact arose, made it desirable to extend to this district the use of street railways to
carry the mails, with which to improve the facilities for mail
delivery
The authority given to the Postmaster General is broad
and comprehensive, requiring him to exercise his judgment to
end the service, and thereby terminate the contract, whenever
the public interest shall demand such a change. 4n that event
the contractor takes the risk that the exercise of this authority might leave him only the indemnity stipulated forone month's extra pay.ptWe are not called upon to say in this
case that the Postmaster General, merely for the purpose of
reletting the contract at a lower rate, may advertise and'relet
precisely the same service for the purpose of making a more
favorable contract for the Government, no change having
arisen in the situation except the desire for a better bargain.i
And it may readily be conceived that in some instances there

SLAVENS v. UNITED STATES.
196 U. S.

Opumon of the Court.

may be such a diminution of the service contracted for in the
district, by reason of the substitution of new and improved
methods, as will render the compensation agreed upon altogether disproportionate to the services left to be rendered, and
thereby invoking the authority of the Postmaster General to
exercise the power reserved to him to terminate the contract.
In the present case the findings of fact do not disclose -a case of
the arbitrary exercise of power. A new means of service
within the district by means of the street railway was deemed
by the Postmaster General to be required in the public interest.
This necessitated the cutting down of the former service to
make way for the new, and the Postmaster General exercised
the power given him under the contract, and put an end to the
service and the contract. If the contention of the appellant is
to be sustained, while in the present case the street railway
service was not a large proportion of the total service required,
the same argument, carried to its legitimate conclusion, would
prevent the Postmaster General from taking advantage of this
stipulation, although it was manifest that a large proportion,
maybe practically all, of the service could be better rendered
to the public by substituting the new method, leaving only a
small part of the old service to be rendered. In this contingency, as construed by the appellant, the contract price
must still be paid, notwithstanding the changed conditions.
These contracts were made for a term of years; two for four
years and one for two years. It is insisted that the construction contended for by the Government practically puts the
contractor into the power of the Postmaster General, and makes
the stipulation, in substance, an agreement upon his part to do
whatever that officer may require. The obvious answer to
this contention is that the contractor is not obliged to carry on
the contract when the Postmaster General elects to cancel- it.
Stich action puts an end to the obligations of the contractor as
well as the Government. Under the postal regulations, it appears that the contractor is given the opportunity to perform
the reduced service at a lower rate. This he was not obliged

OOTOBER TERM, 1004.
Opimon of the Court.

196 U. S.

to do, and, in the present case, declined to undertake. Our
conclusion is that, acting m good faith, of which there is every
presumption in favor of the conduct of so important a department of the Government, the Postmaster General may, as was
done in this case, discontinue the service, and thereby put an
end to the contract when the public interest, of which he is the
sole judge, authorizes such action.,
This view of the contract renders it unnecessary to consider
at length the provisions of section 817 of the Postal Laws and
Regulations, above quoted. It is urged that this section applies more particularly to star route and steamboat service,
but the provisions of the law are broad and comprehensive,
and not limited by the terms of the act to such specific service,
but the power is given the Postmaster General whenever, in
his judgment, the public interest shall require, to discontinue
or curtail the same, giving the contractor as indemmty one
month's extra pay Speaking of the action, authorized under
section 263 of the former rules and regulations, this court, in
Garfielde v United States, 93 U S. 242, 246, said.
"There was reserved to the Postmaster General the power
to annul the contract when his judgment advised that it should
be done, and the compensation to the contractor was specified.
An mdemmty agreed upon as the amount to be paid for cancelling a contract, must, we think, afford the measure of damages for illegally refusing to award it."
And upon similar contract stipulations this court in Chicago
& Northwestern Railway Co. v United States, 104 U S. 680,
684, said.
"It is true, that under this reservation the Postmaster
General would be authorized to discontinue the entire service
contemplated by the contract, and the practical effect of that
would be to terminate the contract itself, on making the indemnity specified."
As to the other claim for extra services: In the stipulation
of the contracts, it appears that the contractor was required
to perform all new or additional or changed covered wagon

SLAVENS v. UNITED STATES.
196 U. S.

Opinon of the Court.

mail station service that the Postmaster General should order,
without additional compensation, whether caused by change
of location of post office, stations or landings, or by the establishment of others than those existing at the time of the contract, or rendered necessary m the judgment of the Postmaster General from any cause, and that officer has the right
to change the schedule, vary the routes, increase, decrease or
extend the service without change of pay It is insisted that
these stipulations, properly construed, permit the Postmaster
General to require only additional service of the same kind as
that stipulated for, and that the carrying of the mails from
street cars, where the same might be ordered to be met at
crossings, was a new and different kind of service, and was not
a change caused by a different location of a post office, station
or landing within the meaning of the contract. But we think
this is too narrow a construction of the terms of the agreement.
Strictly speaking, the carrying of the mails from the street cars
at the crossings is not taking them from the stations, but it
practically amounts to the same thing. It imposes no additional burden upon the contractor; indeed, the findings of fact
show that it greatly decreased his burden by lessening the
number of miles of carrying required. We think this change.
of service was fairly within the power reserved to the Postmaster General, and the right given to him to designate such
changes in the service as the public interest might require m
the performance of this contract. It is true that if these services were not within the terms of the contract, and if they were
of a different character, the fact that they greatly decrease the
burden of the contractor might not require a disallowance of
the claim for extra services. But we think the services were
within the contract, fairly construed, and do not entitle the
contractor to extra compensation.
In reference to the services rendered in Boston, required by
the postmaster, between Back Bay station, in Boston, and
the Brookline post office outside the limits of the city of Boston
and not within the terms of the contract, it does not appear

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

that the requirement of such service was made, except by the
postmaster of the city of Boston, who had no authority, so far
as we can discover, to require such service. When the clainant protested to the Postmaster General he was promptly
relieved from the service, and another contract was made for
the performance of the same.
It is said that this claim is in all respects like the one sustained by this court in United States v Ots, 120 U S. 115,
where the contractor was allowed extra compensation for
carrying the mails across the Hudson River from the Pennsylvania Railway depot at the foot of Cortlandt street, New York,
to the depot of the same line in Jersey City, N. J., when the
contract required him to carry the mails only to and from the
depots in New York. In the opinion m that case Ivr. Justice Blatchford pointed out that the United States directed
the performance of the service. Presumably this was done
by some one having authority of the United States. In this
case the Court of Claims has held, as we think rightly, that the
postmaster, having no power or authority to contract m respect to the mail messenger service, was not the agent of the
Governmeilt for such service, and could not bind the Government by his knowledge or acts in respect thereto. Roberts v
United States, 92 U S. 41, 48, Hume v United States, 132 U. S.
406, Whitsell v United States, 34 C. Cl. 5. As the additional
service in this case was not required by the authorized agent
of the Government, we think the contractor is not entitled to
extra compensation therefor.
Finding no error in the proceedings of the Court of Claims,
its decision is
Affirmed.

