OKLAHOMA CITY v. AcMASTER.
195 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

OKLAHOMA CITY v. McMASTER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
OKLAHOMA.
No. 137. Argued January 18, 19, 1905.-Decided February 20, 1905.

The review by this court of final judgments in civil cases of the Supreme
Court of the Territory of Oklahoma is not controlled by the act of 1874 in
regard to territorial courts but by § 9 of the act of May 2, 1890, 26 Stat.
81, 85, providing the territorial government for Oklahoma, and in an action at law where a jury has been waived the review is by writ of error
as in the case of a similar judgment of a Circuit Court, and not by appeal.
Where no formal judgment has been entered the plea of res judicata has
no foundation; neither the verdict of a jury nor the findings of a court
even though in a prior action, upon the precise point involved m a subsequent action and between the same parties constitutes a bar.
There was no permit for entry of lands in Oklahoma for town sites under
the act of 1889 or until the town site act was passed May 14, 1890,
and an agreement among a portion of the people who on April 22, 1889,
chose lots upon a projected town site did not and could not vest an
absolute title in persons selecting lots or make a plat or map of town
final or conclusive; but the selectors took their lots subject to changes
and conditions that might obtam-m this case as to location of streetswhen the township patent was issued to, and a map finally approved
by, the township trustees under the act of May 14, 1890.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr Frank Dale, with whom Mr S. A. Maggznns, Mr C
Porter Johnson and Mr A. G C Berer were on the brief, for
plaintiff in errorThe so-called findings and judgment of the District Court
of Canadian County clearly did not constitute a judgment
that could be set up as res 3udicata. Child v Morgan, 52
N. W Rep. 1127, Auld v Smith, 23 Kansas, 65, Masszng v
Ames, 36 Wisconsin, 409; Taylor v Runyan, 3 Iowa, 474, 480;
Whilewell v Hoover, 3 Michigan, 84, Lncoln v Cross, 11 Wis-

consin, 94, §5, 24 Am. & Eng. Ency of Law, 2d ed., 717,
Afasterman v Masterman, 51 Pac. Rep. 277, Gordon v KenVOL. cXCVI-3-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Defendant m Error.

196 U. S.

nedy, 36 Iowa, 167, Talesky v State Ins. Co., 70 N. W Rep.
187 MeMaster did not acquire a vested right m the ground
in the streets of Oklahoma City The Beamer Case, 3 Oklahoma, 652, was rightly decided and the cases cited m the
opinion of the Supreme Court of the Territory do not sustain
the decision.
The power to correct the survey of Oklahoma town site
vested exclusively in the political and not the judicial department of the Government. McDaid v Oklahoma Territory,
150 U S. 209, 220; Knzght v United States Land Ass'n, 142
U S. 161, town site act of May 14, 1890, § 1, §§ 441, 443,
2478, Rev Stat.
The writ of error and appeal were both taken to this court
as a matter of precaution, as to which is proper practice and
the effect of findings of the court below, see Strngfellow v
Cain, 99 U S. 610; Cannon v Pratt, 99 U S. 619; cases cited
by defendant in error; Gray v Howe, 108 .U S. 12, Salina
Stock Co. v Irmgatwn Co., 163 U S. 190; Teckendorf v Teckendorj, 171 U S. 686, United States v Hooe, 1 Cranch, 318,
Dams v Frederwks, 104 U S. 618, Thompson v Ferry, 180
U. S. 484, Stone v United States, 164 U S. 380; Dwknson v
Bank, 16 Wall. 250; Insurance Co. v Tweed, 7 Wall. 44, Haws
v Victorm Copper Mining Co., 160 U S. 303, 313, Gildersleeve v New Mexwo Mining Co., 161 U S. 573.
Mr Chester Howe, with whom Mr Francms J Kearful was
on the brief, for defendant in errorThere being but one cause it cannot be in this court both
by writ of error and by appeal. Either one proceeding or the
other will have to be dismissed. Hurst v Hollingsworth, 94
'U S. 111, S. C., 100 U. S. 100; Plymouth Mining Co. v Amador
Canal Co., 118 U S. 264, Files v Brown, 124 Fed. Rep. 133,
Lockman v Long, 132 Fed. Rep. 1. The writ of error should
be dismissed. Strngfellow v Cain, 99 U. S. 610; Hecht v.
Boughton, 105 U S. 235, Story v Black, 119 U. S. 235, Idaho
Land Co. v Bradbury, 132 U S. 509, 514. The judgment

OKLAHOM.A
196 U. S.

CITY v. AMcMASTEIR.

Opumon of the Court.

should be affirmed as the testimony cannot be considered on
an appeal but the consideration of this court is confined to the
statement of facts and rulings certified by the court below
Hecht v Boughton, 105 U S. 235, Marshallv Burtis, 172 U S.
630. The judgmeiit against the town site trustees was properly
admitted and the matter was res 3udicata. It is permissible
to assume from the general findings that defendant m error
was entitled to the lot and the deed. was arbitrarily withheld.
Fayerweatherv Ritch, 195 U S. 276, 307
MR.

JUSTICE PECKHAm

delivered the opinion of the court.

On the twenty-second day of September, 1899, this action
of ejectment was commenced by defendant in error in the
District Court of the Third Judicial District of Oklahoma
Territory, in Oklahoma County It was brought to recover
lands situated in a public street in the city of Oklahoma City
Judgment was entered for the defendant in error for the recovery of the land, and that judgment was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the Territory, and the plaintiff in error has
-brought the case here, both by writ of error and appeal, taking
both courses as a precaution, in order to bring the case before
us. It was tried by the court, a jury having been waived by
the parties, and the defendant in error contends that where a
case is thus tried in a territorial court, an appeal to this court
is the only proper proceeding to obtain a review Act of
Congress, 1874, 18 Stat. 27, 28. The contention of defendant
is not correct in this case. The manner of reviewing judgments, in civil cases, of the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Oklahoma is specially provided for by the ninth section of the
act of May 2, 1890, 26 Stat. 81, 85, providing a territorial
government for Oklahoma, and is not governed by the act of
Congress of 1874. Comstock v Eagleton, 196 U S. 99. The
ninth section of the act of 1890 provides that writs of error
and appeal from the final decision of the Supreme Court of the
Territory will be allowed and may be taken to the Supreme

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opunon of the Court.

196 U. S.

Court of the United States "in the same manner and under
the same regulations as from the Circuit Courts of the United
States," and it was held in the above case that final judgment
in an action at law in the Circuit Court of the United States,
can only be reviewed by writ of error. The assumption that
because this case was tried before the court, a jury having been
waived by consent, that therefore it ought to go up by appeal,
is a mistaken one. In Deland v Platte County, 155 U S.221,
the case was an action at law where a jury had been waived
and trial had before the court. Nevertheless, it was held that,
as it was an action at law and the case came from a Circuit
Court of the United States, it could only be reviewed by this
court on writ of error. This case must, therefore, be reviewed
by writ of error because it is an action at law, although tried
by the court upon a waiver of a jury The record shows a
sufficient bill of exceptions, however, and the case is to be
reviewed upon the record as thus presented.
Upon the trial, for the purpose of proving the issue upon his
part, by means of evidence of a former adjudication, the plaintiff introduced in evidence what he contended was a judgment
in his favor for the recovery of the same land in an action in
which he was plaintiff and Edgar N. Sweet et al., town site
trustees, defendants, and which was entered in the District
Court of the Second Judicial District, county of Canadian,
Territory of Oklahoma, on or before May 11, 1892, and recorded on the fourteenth day of May, 1892, in the county of
Oklahoma. The plaintiff argued that the defendant (plaintiff
in error) in the case at bar was bound as a privy by the adjudication in the former action. The paper was received in
evidence by the court, and it is set forth at length in the record.
It is evidently nothing but a finding of facts by the judge trying
the cause. There was also a paper offered and received in evidence, signed by the trial judge in the same case, and dated the
thirteenth day of October, 1893. This was an order made in
the case by him at Kingfisher, in Kingfisher County, and was
entered in that county on the thirteenth day of October, 1893,

OKLAHOMA CITY v. McMV-ASTER.
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the day of its date. The order directs the defendant to make,
execute and deliver to Frank McMaster, the plaintiff, a trustee's
deed, "as decreed by this court on the fourteenth day of November, 1892, of the following described premises and real estate." It is attempted to piece these two documents together,
the finding of facts filed in Canadian County and thereafter recorded m the county of Oklahoma, and the order made m Kingfisher County and filed therein October 13, 1893, and to regard
the whole as a judgment, It is plain that there has been no
formal judgment entered m-the case, and that these two separate documents, filed in different clerks' offices, cannot be pieced
together and made a formal and complete judgment. Without
a judgment the plea of res 3udicata has no foundation, and
neither the verdict of a jury nor the findings of a court, even
though in a prior action, upon the precise point involved in a
subsequent action and between the same parties, constitute
a bar. In other words, the thing adjudged must be by a
judgment. A verdict, or finding of the court alone, is not
sufficient. The reason stated is, that the judgment is the
bar and not the preliminary determination of the court or
jury It may be that the verdict was set aside, or the finding
of facts amended, reconsidered, or themselves set aside or a
new trial granted. The judgment alone is the foundation for
the bar.k Sprnger v Bin, 128 N. Y 99.
Without resort to this (asserted) judgment in the action
against the town site trustees, it is not urged that the defendant
in error made out his case upon the trial. There was no judgment, and the "finding of facts" should not have been held to
be such. For the error in the admission of the so-called judgment the case must be reversed.
We do not decide, even if there had been a technical and
formal judgment entered, that such a judgment would be conclusive in favor of the plaintiff upon the trial of this action
against the city of Oklahoma City Whether the plaintiff in
error would be regarded as a privy to such judgment, and,
therefore, bound by it, it is not now necessary to decide.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

The court is, however, indisposed to let the case rest upon
the error pointed out. The question will arise upon another
trial, as to the right of the plaintiff to recover upon the facts
stated in the finding of facts in the action against the town site
trustees. We think it proper to now look into those findings
simply for the purpose of determining whether, assuming them
to be facts, the plaintiff below made out a case which would
entitle him to recover the land in suit. The Supreme Court of
the Territory is of opinion that he did. Among the facts found
on the trial of the case against the trustees are the following:
The trustees, appointed under the act of May 14, 1890,
26 Stat. 109, entered the land in the local land office at Oklahoma City, September 3, 1890, covering, among other lots,
the premises in question, in trust for the "use and benefit of the
occupants thereof." A patent from the United States was,
on the first of October, 1890, issued to the trustees, for the land
(covering over 160 acres), which patent was by its terms, in
trust for the occupants of the town site, according to their
respective interests. At neither date was the plaintiff below
an occupant of the land in suit.
Prior to this time, and on the twenty-second day of April,
1889, the land had been opened for settlement under the
proclamation of the President, pursuant to the act of Congress,
approved March 2, 1889. 25 Stat. 980, § 13, p. 1005. The
land in question, together with other lots, was settled upon
and occupied as a town site shortly after noon of April 22,
1889, and has continued to be and is still so held and occupied.
A portion of the occupants of the tract, on the twentysecond day of April, 1889, tacitly agreed to a plat of the land
into lots, blocks, streets and alleys, and the plaintiff on that
day legally entered upon and occupied the piece or parcel of
land, particularly described in the plat as his lots, and being
the land recovered by him in this action. Subsequently to
such occupancy, and prior to the entry of the land by the
trustees, and to the conveyance by the Government to the
trustees a different plat making a different arrangement of

OKLAHOMA CITY v. McMASTER.
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

streets, etc., was adopted and enforced by the parties occupying the town site. By the latter plat the parcel of land claimed
by the plaintiff was thrown into the street called Grand avenue.
The plaintiff did not consent, but objected to the second plat,
and has never consented thereto or acquiesced therein. He
was by the city authorities forcibly removed from the parcel
of ground selected by him, and has since that time been forcibly
kept from the occupancy thereof.
On the twenty-first day of April, 1891, he applied to the
trustees of the city for a deed to the lot, but they declined to
award it. The city of Oklahoma City has appropriated the
land as a street, and did so appropriate the same long prior to
the conveyance of the land by the United States to the trustees.
The plaintiff was not an occupant of the tract at the time the
United States conveyed the same to the trustees, but it was at
the time used and occupied as a street by the city
On these facts the plaintiff below did not make out his case.
There was no unconditional vesting of title to the particular
lot chosen by him on the twenty-second of April, by tacit
agreement of some of the settlers, even though a map were
made of the land showing the plaintiff in possession of a lot not
in any public street of the city Subsequently to the agreement upon a plat by some of the settlers, and prior to the
conveyance to the trustees by the patent from the United States
(October 1, 1890), the plat was altered and another plat
adopted, by which the lot selected by the defendant in error
became a part of a public street in the city The defendant in
error, in common with all others, chose lots upon a site which
was intended as a town site, and took his lot subject to the
conditions which might thereafter obtain. There was no portion of the Territory of Oklahoma open to settlement prior to
the date fixed by the proclamation of the President under the
act of March 2, 1889. That date was April 22, 1889. 26
Stat. 1544. It was provided by the act that after the proclamation, and not before, the Secretary of the Interior might permit
the entry of land for town sites under Rev Stat. sections 2387,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.

Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

2388. The Secretary of the Interior gave no permit for entry
of lands for town sites under the act of 1889. Again, the sections of the Revised Statutes plainly refer to an organized
State or Territory, and Oklahoma was neither, on the twentysecond day of April, 1889. It was organized as a Territory
May 2, 1890, 26 Stat. 81, and the special act to provide for
town site entries in Oklahoma was not passed until May 14,
1890. 26 Stat. 109. Regulations for carrying out that act
were promulgated by the Secretary of the Interior June 18 and
July 10, 1890. 10 L. D. 666, 11 L. D 24. It may be assumed
that on April 22, 1889, it was supposed that the land now embraced in the city of Oklahoma City would be a town site, as it
was stated on the argument at bar, and not disputed, that there
was at that date a railroad station there, and there was every
probability that a town would exist at that site. But there
was no law for a present selection of land or lots for town sites
on the twenty-second day of April, 1889. There was but a
supposition that land actually selected on that day for a town
site would eventually be approved. On May 14, 1890, more
than a year after the lands were open to entry, and just twelve
days after the act was passed providing for the temporary
government of the Territory, an act providing for town site
entries was passed. 26 Stat. 109. That act provided for
trustees, to be appointed by the Secretary of the Interior, who
were authorized to make entry for town sites on so much of the
public lands, situate in the Territory of Oklahoma and then
open to settlement, as might be necessary to embrace all the
legal subdivisions covered by actual occupancy, for the purpose
of trade and business, not exceeding twelve hundred and
eighty acres in each case, for the several use and benefit of the
occupants thereof, and the entry was to be made under the
provisions of section 2387 of the Revised Statutes, as near as
might be, and when such entry was made the Secretary of
the Interior was to provide regulations for the proper execution of the trust by such trustees, including the survey of the
land into streets, alleys, squares, blocks and lots when neces-

OKLAHOMA CITY v. McMASTER.
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sary, or the approval of such survey as may already have
been made by the inhabitants thereof, the assessment upon
the lots of such sum as might be necessary to pay for the land
embraced in such town site, the costs of the survey, the conveyances of lots, and other necessary expenses, including
the compensation of the trustees. The maps and plats of
streets, etc., to be surveyed were to be approved by the trustees, or they might approve the survey already made by the
inhabitants thereof.
It seems, therefore, plain that a mere agreement among a
portion of the people selecting lots for or in a projected town
site, on April 22, 1889, did not and could not vest an absolute
and unconditional title in the persons who thus selected such
lots. The persons going on the land on that date and under
the circumstances then existing did not have any law for the
vesting of title to a lot as within a town site, by the mere
selection of land at that time. There was general confusion
and there were thousands of people entering the territory embraced within the proclamation, on that date. In City of
Guthrev Oklahoma, 1 Oklahoma, 188, 194, the Supreme Court
of the Territory, in speaking of these crowds, said.
"They were aggregatiohs of people, associated together for
the purpose of mutual benefit and protection. Without any
statute law, they became a law unto themselves and adopted
the forms of law and government common among civilized
people, and enforced their authority by the power of public
sentiment. They had no legal existence; they were nonentities;
they could not bind themselves by contracts, or bind any one
else."
The whole thing was experimental and conditional.
The selection of the lots m a proposed town site, made on
the twenty-second day of April, 1889, not being final, neither
was the plat or map of the proposed town site, as then, or soon
after, agreed upon by some of the people, final or conclusive.
The agreement upon the plat or map was liable to alteration,
there was no absolute right to any particular lot, as it was

OCTOBER TERI,

1904.

Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

subject to future survey It was all in the air. When thereafter, the trustees, under the statute, made a survey of the
land into the streets, etc., or approved a survey already made
by which the plaintiff's lot was placed in the public street of
the city, it was his misfortune, where all had taken their
chances, that he should draw a blank. The approval of a
survey by the trustees, which placed this lot in a public street
of the city, gives to the city the right to the possession of it,
and to keep it open as such public street. The plaintiff not
being an occupant of the lot at the time that the trustees'made
entry of the land, nor when the conveyance was made to the
trustees by the Government, was not one of the parties included in the statute, which directed the entry for the town
sites to be made by the trustees "for the several use and benefit
of the occupants thereof."
The Supreme Court in City of Guthme v Beamer, 3 Oklahoma, 652, has held substantially the same views which we
now state in the case at bar. We are unable to see any real
difference in the principle governing the two cases, and we
think the Beamer case was rightly decided.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma must be
reversed, and the case remanded with directions for a new
trial.
Reversed.

