OCU£OBER TERM, 1904.
196 U. S.

Syllabus.

that such interest was a contingent and not. a vested remainder.
Coming to apply the construction which we have given the
statute to the solution of the questions propounded by the
Court of Appeals, it follows that the first, second and fourth
questions are unnecessary to be answered, and the third question should be answered in the negative.
And it w so ordered.

WESTERN TIE AND TIMBER COMPANY v. BROWN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 232. Argued January 5,1905.-Decided February 20,1905.
The bankrupt was largely indebted to a corporation whose laborers purchased supplies from hun; periodically he rendered the corporation a
statement of amounts due from its laborers which it deducted from their
wages and remitted to hun in a lump sum. Prior to, and within four
months of, the filing of the petition, the corporation several times deducted from its pay-roll, amounts aggregating over $2,000, so due by its
laborers but did not pay them over, and on filing it claim it embodied
as an integral part thereof the amounts so deducted and retained as a
proper credit or offset. The Circuit Court of Appeals found that the
corporation retained the amounts with the knowledge of the bankrupt's
insolvency and with the intention to secure a preference to that extent
thereby, but that the bankrupt had no such intention, and ordered that
the entire claim be expunged unless the corporation paid the amount so
retained to the trustee. On appeal objections were taken to the jursdiction of this court. Held: that
As the claun to set-off is controlled by and is necessarily based on the
provisions of § 68 of the Bankrupt Act and its construction is necessarily involved, and the question is one which might have been taken to
this court on appeal or writ of error from the highest court of a State, this
court has jurisdiction of the appeal.
Under the facts as found below the deductions from pay-roll did not give
rise to a voidable preference nor was the corporation entitled to credit
them as a set-off as they were not mutual debts and credits within the
set-off clause of the bankrupt act, but were collections made independ-

WESTERN TIE AND TIMBER CO. v. BROWN.
196 U. S.

503

Statement of the Case.

ently of other transactions and as trustee for the bankrupt. The corporation was entitled to prove its gross debt with the alleged set-off eliminated and was a debtor to the bankrupt for the amount of such deductions, and the court below has power to protect the bankrupt's estate
m respect to dividends to the corporation m case it should not discharge
its obligations.

THis is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, affirming, as modified, an
order of the District Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Arkansas, directing that the claim of the Western
Tie and Timber Company against the estate of S. F Harrison,
a bankrupt, be expunged, unless the company paid to the
trustee in bankruptcy a specified sum, found to have been
transferred to the company by the bankrupt and decided to
have operated a voidable preference. 129 Fed. Rep. 728.
The facts were thus found by the Circuit Court of Appeals:
"1.On February 24, 1903, a petition to procure an ad3udication that S. Frank Harrison was a bankrupt was filed
m the District Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Arkansas, and Harrison was then adjudged a bankrupt.
"2. The Western Tie and Timber Company was a corporation and a creditor of Harrison. It presented a claim against
his estate in bankruptcy of $24,358. The trustee moved to
expunge this claun on the ground that the tie company had
secured a voidable preference. The District Court ordered
the claim expunged unless the tie company should pay to the
trustee $2,210.73, and an appeal from this order was taken.
"3. For some years prior to February 24, 1903, the tie company and Harrison had been engaged in removing timber from
land of the former and converting it into ties, which the company received and sold. For many months prior to October,
1902, Harrison had owned and conducted stores in the vicinity
of the places where the work of cutting and hauling the ties
was carried on, and had furnished the laborers engaged m that
work with groceries and other supplies. These laborers and
Harrison were paid by the tie company in this way- Once in
two or four weeks an inspector sent to the tie company a pay

OCOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Appellant.

196 U. S.

roll, on which the name of each laborer, the amount he had
earned and the value of the supplies he had received from
Harrison, appeared. The company deducted from the earnings of each laborer the value of the supplies the laborer had
received and sent him a check for the balance. At the same
time it sent to Harrison a check for the aggregate amount of
the supplies which he had furnished to the laborers.
"4. Four months before the filing of the petition in bankruptcy, or October 24, 1902, Harrison owed the tie company
more than $20,000.
"5. Between December 27, 1902, and February 24, 1903,
the company refused to pay to Harrison, retained and credited
on its claim against him $2,210.73, which- was due him for
supplies he had furnished to the laborers subsequent to November 30, 1902.
"6. At all times, when the amounts which aggregate
$2,210.73 became due and were retained by the company,
Harrison was insolvent, the tie company knew that fact, and
it intended by retaining these amounts to secure to itself a
preference over the other creditors of the insolvent, but Harrison had no such intention.
"7 After the company had retained several hundred dollars
of the amount due Harrison for the supplies, it advanced to
him $75 under a new and further credit."
An appeal to this court was allowed by the presiding circuit
judge of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Mr Joseph Wheless, Mr George M Block, Mr F H. Sullivan and Mr Charles Erd, for appellant:
This court has jurisdiction of this appeal upon the finding
of facts and conclusions of law below Act of 1898, §25b;
General Orders in Bankruptcy, XXXVI, Prew v Chwago
Title & Trust Co., 182 U S. 438, New York County Bank v
Massey, 192 U S. 138.
The bankrupt had no intention to prefer appellant, and
without such intention on his part there could be no preference

WESTERN TIE AND TIMBER CO. v. BROWN.
196 U. S.

505

Argument for Appellee.

arising from his sale of goods to appellant's employ6s. Act
of 1898, § 57g, as amended February 5, 1903, and 60b, Act.
of 1841, § 2 , Act of 1867, Rev Stat. §§ 5084, 5128, Buck'ngham v McLean, 13 How 169, Wilson v City Bank, 17
Wall. 487, Clark v Iselin, 21 Wall. 375, Barbour v Pest,
103 U S. 293, Rwe v Grafton Mills, 117 Massachusetts,
228.
The sale of the supplies here m question, by the bankrupt,
resulted in an indebtedness from appellant to him, was not
payment of, nor security for, appellant's demand, and hence
was not a preference, but a case of mutual debts to be set off,
the one against the other. Opinion of Circuit Court of Appeals
m this case, Henrick v Lindsay, 93 U S. 149; Hecht v Caughron, 46 Arkansas, 132, Century Digest vol. II, tit. Contracts,
§ 798, Act of 1898, § 1, def. 25 and 68, New York County Bank
v Massey, supra.
Mr John M. Moore, Mr C F Henderson,Mr H. L. Ponder,
Mr M. M. Stuckey and Mr S. M. Stuckey, for appellee.
This court does not have jurisdiction of this appeal. Hutchsnson v Otis, 123 Fed. Rep. 14, Denver Nat-onal Bank v
Klug, 186 U S. 202, Holden v Stratton, 191 U S.115.
An intention on the part of the bankrupt to give a preference
by means of a transfer he makes is not indispensible to the
existence of a voidable preference. Act of 1898, §§ 57g, 60a,
60b, Ch. 487, §§ 12, 13, Collier on Bankruptcy, 4th ed., pp. 387,
537, Swarts v Fourth National Bank, 117 Fed. Rep. 1, S. C.,
54 C. C. A. 387, Opinion of Circuit Court of Appeals in this case.
The sale of supplies by bankrupt to the laborers and the
appellant deducting the amount of them from the pay rolls and
retaining same did not create an indebtedness from appellant
to bankrupt, but was a voidable transfer of bankrupt's property and a preference, and was not a case of mutual debts to
be set off the one against the other. Act of 1898,§ 1 (def.
No. 25), 60a, 60b and 68, In re Chrmstansen,101 Fed. Rep. 802;
In re Ryan, 105 Fed. Rep. 760; Libbey v Hopksns, 104 U S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opmlom of the Court.

196 U. S.

303, Re Tacoma Shoe & Leather Co., 3 Nat. B. N. & Rep. 9;
Sawyer v Hoag, 17 Wall. 610, 622.
after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR.

JUSTICE WHITE,

Before coming to the merits we dispose of an objection to
the jurisdiction.
The appeal was prosecuted under clause b (1) of section 25
of the bankrupt act of July 1, 1898, 30 Stat. 544, 553, providing that from any final decision of a Court of Appeals,
allowing or rejecting a claim under the act, an appeal may be
had "where the amount in controversy exceeds the sum of
two thousand dollars, and the question involved is one which
might have been taken on appeal or writ of error from the
highest court of a State to the Supreme Court of the United
States."
The provision of the Revised Statutes regulating the revision
of judgments and decrees of state courts, which is relied upon,
in conjunction with the portion of the bankruptcy act just
quoted, is that portion of section 709, which authorizes the
reexammation of a final judgment or decree in any suit m the
highest court of a State in which a decision in the suit can be
had "where any title, right, privilege, or immunity is claimed
the United
statute of
any
under
States, and the decision is against the title, right, privilege, or
immunity specially set up or claimed, by either party, under
statute,
such
appellee
does not question that this appeal is from a
- The
decree rejecting a claim, within the meaning of the statute, and
that the requisite jurisdictional amount is involved, but the
particular objection urged is that a right was not claimed
under an act of Congress, nor was a right of that nature demed
by the lower court.
The objection is not tenable. It clearly appears from the
record that in the claim filed on behalf of the tie company there

WESTERN TIE AND TMIBER CO. v. BROWN.
196 U. S.

507

Opinion of the Court.

was embodied, as an integral part thereof, as a proper credit
or set-off, the sum retained from the wages of employ~s for
supplies furnished by the bankrupt, and the rejection of the
claim was based upon the denial of the right to set-off. As
the right of set-off is controlled by the provisions of section 68
of the bankrupt act, the assertion of such a right, in a proceeding in bankruptcy, as was the case here, is necessarily
based upon those provisions of the act of Congress, and in this
case the construction of such statutory provision was undoubtedly involved. That the Circuit Court of Appeals understood that reliance was had by the tie company upon the
set-off clauses of the act is shown by its opinion, where, after
sustaining the claim of the trustee that the credits in question
constituted a preference, it prefaced a particular discussion
of the contention, as to a right of set-off, by the following statement:
"Finally, it is said that this $2,210.73 was a credit to Harrison, and that the company should be permitted to set it off
against his debt to it, and should be allowed to prove its clai
for the balance remaining without restriction, on the ground
that these claims were mutual debts and credits under section 68 of the bankrupt law"
The record, we think, sufficiently presented a claim of
Federal right, Home for Incurablesv New York, 187 U S. 155,
and the objection to the jurisdiction is therefore overruled.
Passing to the merits of the controversy"
We must, at the outset, in the light of the facts found below,
determine the exact relation existing between the bankrupt
and the tie company, in order to fix the true import Df the
transactions by which the tie company, in making its claim
against the bankrupt estate, asserted a right to retain and set
off the sums which, in its proof of claim, it described as "deductions from pay rolls."
We think the findings establish that Harrison sold the goods,
not to the tie company, but to the laborers, and therefore the
result of the sale was to create an indebtedness for the price

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

alone between Harrison and the employ6s. This is not only
the necessary consequence of the facts stated, but likewise
conclusively flows from the nature of the proof of claim made
by the tie company, since that proof, so far as the items concerning the price of the goods sold to the employ6s are concerned, based the indebtedness by the tie company to Harrison,
not upon any supposed original obligation on the part of the
tie company towards Harrison to pay for the goods, but upon
the "deductions from pay rolls," made by the tie company m
paying its employ~s. The effect of this was to trace and limit
the origin of the debt due by the tie company to Harrison
solely to the fact that the tie company had deducted, in paymg its employ6s, money due to Harrison by the employ~s
which, from the fact of the deduction, the tie company had
become bound to pay to Harrison. We think, also, the facts
found establish that the course of dealing between Harrison
and the tie company concerning the deductions from pay rolls
was that the tie company, when it made the deductions, was
under an obligation to remit the money collected from the
laborers for account of Harrison to him, irrespective of any
debt which he might owe the tie company This follows from
the finding that, although there was a debt existing between
Harrison and the tie company, the course of dealing between
them was that when the tie company made deductions from
the wages of the laborers of sums of money due by them to
Harrison the tie company regularly remitted the proceeds of
the deductions to Harrison. This conclusion, moreover, is the
result of the finding that Harrison had no intention to give
the tie company a preference, for if Harrison, being insolvent,
to the knowledge of the company, within the prohibited
period, gave to the tie company authority to collect the sums
dugto him by the laborers for goods sold them, with the right,
or even the option, to apply the money to a prior debt due by
Harrison to the company, the necessary result of the transaction would have been to create a voidable preference. And if
the inevitable result of the transaction would have been to

WESTERN TIE AND TIMBER CO. v. BROWN.
196 U. S.

509

Qpmnon of the C.ourt,

create such a preference, then the law would coneiusively
impute to Harrison the intention to bring about the result
necessarily arising from the nature of the act which he did.
Wilson v City Bank, 17 Wall. 473, 486. 'To give effect, therefore, to the finding that there was no intention on the part of
Harrison to prefer, we must consider that the authority given
by him to the tie company to collect from the laborers did not
give that company the right or endow it with the option,
when it had collected, to retain the money for its exclusive
benefit, and to the detriment of the other creditors of Harrison.
The result of the facts found then is this: Harrison sold his
goods to the laborers and agreed with the tie company that
that company when it paid the laborers should deduct the
amount due by the laborers from the wages which the tie
company owed them, and after making the deduction should
remit to Harrison the amount thus deducted, irrespectjve of
any indebtedness.otherwise due by Harrison to the tie company Did this give rise to a voidable preference within the
intendment of sections 57g and 60b of the bankrupt act?
In view of the necessary result of the findings which we have
previously pointed out, it is, we think, beyond doubt that the
agreement was not a voidable preference within the meaning
of the statute, since, considering the agreement alone, it
brought about no preference whatever. This leaves only for
consideration the question whether the tie company was entitled to prove its claim, as it sought to do, for the balance
owing, after crediting as a set-off the "deductions from pay
rolls," to which we have referred6--Now, as we have seen, from
the facts found, it must be that the agreement between Harrison and the tie company obligated the latter, when it made
the deductions from pay rolls, to remit to Harrison the amount
of such deductions irrespective of the, account between itself
and Harrison. It follows that as to such deductions the tie
company stood towards Harrison in the relation of a trustee,
and, therefore, the case was not one of mutual credits and debts
within the meaning of the set-off clause of the bankrupt law,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

196 U. S.

Libby v Hopkins, 104 U S. 303. And, irrespective of the
trust relation which the findings establish, it is equally clear
from general considerations that the right to set-off did not
exist. To allow the set-off under the circumstances disclosed
would violate the plain intendment of the inhibition contained
in clause b (2) of section 68 of the bankrupt act, which forbids
the allowance to any debtor of a bankrupt of a set-off or
counterclaim which "was purchased by or transferred to him
after the filing of the petition, or within four months before
such filing, with a view to such use and with knowledge or
notice that such bankrupt is insolvent or had committed an
act of bankruptcy" That is to say, whether or not the trust
relation was engendered, the result would still be that the tie
company, within the prohibited period and with knowledge of
the insolvency of Harrison, acquired the clamis of the latter
against the laborers, with a view to using the same by way of
payment or set-off, so as to obtain an advantage over the other
creditors, which it was not lawfully entitled to do.
As we have concluded that under the findings there was no
voidable preference, we think the court below erred in refusing
to allow the tie company to prove its claim, unless it surrendered the sums which it owed Harrison and his bankrupt
estate. Section 57g of the bankrupt act, as amended by the
act of February 5, 1903, 32 Stat. 797, 799, empowering the
court to compel creditors to surrender preferences as a
prerequisite to the proof of claims against the estate of the bankrupt, relates only to those creditors "who have received preferences viodable under section sixty, subdivision b." But it
also is demonstrated, from what we have said, that the tie company was not entitled to prove its claun as it sought to do, embracing, as it did, the assertion of a right to set-off, and thus
extinguish the sum which it owed to the bankrupt estate, resulting from the deductions from pay rolls. Whilst, therefore,
because of the error in imposing the condition of prerequisite surrender of the alleged preference, the judgment below
was erroneous, nevertheless the court was correct in refusing

UNITED STATES v. ENGARD.
196 U. S.

Syllabus.

to allow the alleged set-off, and in refusing to permit proof
to be made which embraced and asserted such set-off. It follows that although the judgment below must be reversed for
the reasons stated, the case should be remanded with directions
to disregard the alleged claim of set-off, to reject any proof of
claim asserting the same, and to permit a claim to be filed for
the gross indebtedness to the tie company, with the alleged
set-off eliminated. The result will be that the tie company
will be a creditor of the estate for the whole amount of its
claim, and will be at the same time a debtor to the estate for
the amount of the deductions from the pay-rolls collected by it,
the court below, of course, having power to take such steps
as may be lawful to protect the estate in respect to the payment
of dividends to the tie company, in the event that company
does not discharge its obligations to the bankrupt estate.
The decrees of both courts are reversed and the case ss remanded
to the Distrwt Court with directons to allow the proof of
claim, rejectng the alleged set-off, and for further proceedzngs n conformity with this opinwn.

UNITED STATES v. ENGARD
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
1so.136. Argued January 18, 1905.-Decided February 20, 1905.

The Navy Department has no power to disregard the provisions of Rev.
Stat. §§ 1556, 1571, and Pars. 1154, 1168, naval regulations and either
deprive an officer of sea pay by assigning him to a duty mistakenly
qualified as shore duty but which is m law sea duty, or to entitle him
to receive sea pay by assigning him to duty which is essentially shore
duty and mistakenly qualifying it as sea duty.
Where, however, the assignment of an officer to duty by the Navy Department expressly imposes upon him the continued discharge of his sea
duties and qualifies the shore duty as merely temporary and ancillary
to the regular sea duty, the presumption is that the shore duty is tempo-

