OCTOBER TERM, 1904:
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

HODGE v. MUSCATINE COUNTY, IOWA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 150. Argued December 9, 12, 1904.-Decided January 16, 190.

If the taxpayer be given an opportunity to test the validity of a tax at any
time before it is made final, either before a board having quast judicial
character, or a tribunal provided by the State for that purpose, due
process is not denied, and if he does not avail himself of the opportunity to
present his defense to such board or tribunal, it is not for this court to
determine whether such defense is valid.
A State may reserve to itself the right to tax or prohibit the sale of cigarettes,
and while this court is not bound by the construction given to a statute
by the highest court of the State as to whether a tax is or is not a license
to sell it will accept it unless clearly of the opinion that it is wrong.
Section 5007, Iowa Code, imposing a tax against every person and upon the
real property and the owner thereof whereon cigarettes are sold does not
give a license to sell cigarettes, nor is it invalid as depriving the owner of
the property of his property without due process of law, because it does
not provide for giving him notice of the tax, §§ 2441, 2442, Iowa Code,
providing for review with power to remit by the board of supervisors.
Whether or not a state statute violates the state constitution in not stating
distinctly the tax and the object to which it is-to be applied is a local and
not a Federal question.
A tax to carry on a business may be made a lien on the property whereon
the business is carried and the owner is presumed to know the business
there carried on and to have let the property with knowledge that it
might be encumbered by a tax on such business.

TaIs was a petition m the District Court by the owner and
tenant of certain real estate m Muscatine, used for a tobacconist's shop, to enjoin the defendants from assessing and
collecting a tax of $240, upon the ground of the unconstitution-.
ality of the law
Demurrers were interposed to the petition and to certain
amendments thereto, which were sustained, the bill dismissed,
and an appeal taken to the Supreme Court of Iowa, which
affirmed the judgment of the court below 121 Iowa, 482.

HODGE v. MUSCATINE COUNTY.
196. U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr Junnus Parker, with whom Mr Frank S. Dunshee and
Mr W W Fuller were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.'
Mr Henry Jayne for defendant in error.'
MR. JUSTICE BROWN, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

This case involves the same questions as those just disposed
of in Cook v Marshall County, and in addition thereto the
point is made that the laws of Iowa deny to the owner of property leased for the sale of cigarettes due process of law
To answer satisfactorily the question thus presented, it is
necessary to consider the laws of Iowa respecting the tax upon
cigarette dealers, and the methods of enforcing the same.
By section 5006 a fine and imprisonment are imposed for
selling cigarettes.
By section 5007, printed in full in the MarshallCounty case,!.
a tax of $300 per anuum is assessed "against every person
and upon the real property, and the owner thereof,"
whereon cigarettes, etc., are sold, or kept with intent to be
sold, with a provision that "such tax shall be in additinn to all
other taxes and penalties, shall be assessed, collected and disz
tributed in the same manner as the mulct liquor tax, and shall
be a perpetual lien upon all property both personal and real
used in connection with the business; and the payment of such
tax shall not be a bar to prosecution under any law prohibiting" the selling of cigarettes.
This assessment is made collectible as is a similar charge
made upon dealers in liquor as follows:
By section 2433 the assessor makes quarterly returns to the
auditor of the persons liable to the tax, and a description of the
real property whereon the business has been carried.
I Argued simultaneously with No. 98, Cook v Marshall County, for abstract of arguments see p. 262, ante.
2 See p. 268, ante.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

By section 2436 the charge is made payable in quarterly
installments, and shall be a lien upon the real property
By section 2437 the auditor certifies quarterly to the county
treasurer a list of the names returned to him by the assessor,
with a description of the names of the tenant and owner.
By section 2438 the county treasurer enters upon the mulct
tax book a quarterly installment of the tax as a lien and charge
upon the real property
By section 2439, if the tax is not paid within a month, it
shall be considered delinquent and be collectible as other delinquent taxes.
By section 2440 the treasurer may collect the same, after it
has become delinquent, by seizing and selling any personal
property
By section 2441 application may be made to the board of
supervisors to remit the tax by petition duly verified and filed
with the county auditor eight days before the time set for the
consideration of the case, notice of which must be served upon
the county attorney
By section 2442 the owner of the property may be heard in
support of his application. A majority of the board determines --hether the, tax shall stand or be remitted, and either
party may take an appeal to the District Court.
These are all of the provisions of the law material to be
considered.
We do not deem it necessary to affix a definition to the charge
unposed by section 5007 It is certainly not an ordinary
license tax, as the payment of such tax is no bar to a prosecution for selling cigarettes under section 5006. In Smith v
Skow, 97 Iowa, 640, it is said, in speaking of the mulct liquor
tax, to which this is analogous, that though called a tax in the
statute, it is not in fact a tax as we usually use the word. "It
is in reality a charge or license for carrying on the business of
vending liquors, which charge is made by statute a lien upon
all property, both real and personal, used or connected with
the business." In Ferry v Deneen, 82 N. W Rep. 424, it is

HODGFi ,v. MUSCATINE COUNTY
196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

observed by the same court, "it is apparent, taking all the
provisions of this act together, that the amount imposed,
while ca:lled a 'tax,' is at the same time a penalty"
But in the opinion of the court m the case under consideration, the charge imposed by section 5006 is said to be "clearly
not a license, for it does not grant permission to do an act
I It
which, without such permission, would be invalid.
is manifestly a tax upon the traffic which the legislature saw fit
to impose, not for the purpose of giving countenance to the
business, but as a deterrent against engaging therein.
Indeed, we think it may fairly be said to be a tax upon the
business. That a tax is imposed for the double purpose of
regulation and revenue is no reason for declaring it invalid.
Being a tax, it was competent for the legislature to
prescribe the proceedings and processes for its collection."
This being the latest expression of opinion of the Supreme
Court of Iowa, we accept it for the purposes of this case. If
it be not a construction binding upon us, it is, at least a construction which we ought to follow, unless we are clearly of
opinion that it is wrong.
In the case of McBride v State, 70 Mississippi, 716, cited by
plaintiffs, it was held that a statute providing that a person
selling liquor unlawfully should be subject to pay, "where the
offense is committed," the sum of $500, and should also be
liable to a "criminal prosecution," imposed a penalty and not
a tax, and that a proceeding to collect such penalty by distress
was unconstitutional, but a distinction was drawn in that case
between a penalty and a tax, and it was intimated that a proceeding by distress to collect a tax would not be open to a like
objection.
It is not easy to draw an exact line of demarkation between
a tax and a penalty, but in view of the fact that the statute
denominates the assessment a "tax," and provides proceedrags appropriate for the collection of a tax, but not for the enforcement of a penalty, and does not contemplate a criminal
prosecution, we cannot go far afield in treating it as a tax

OCTOBER TERMI,

L 04.

Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

rather than a penalty Section 5006 does indeed impose a
penalty, but section 5007 imposes a tax, with an additional
provision that the payment of the tax shall not absolve the
party from the penalty It would be a distortion of the words
employed to speak of section 5007 as imposing an additional
penalty The act itself provides m terms that such tax shall
be an addition to all other taxes and penaltwes, and elaborate
provision is made for its enforcement. The mere fact that the
charge, whatever it may be, is made a lien upon the real estate
and a personal claim against the landlord indicates that it is
the nature of a tax rather than a penalty
There is no conflict between the two sections, the State
reserving to itself an election to proceed under the one or the
other. If Congress may provide that a license granted by it
to sell liquors shall not be construed to authorize the sale of
such liquors when prohibited by the laws of the State, as was
held by this court m McGusre v Commonwealth, 3 Wall. 387,
The License Tax Cases, 5 Wall, 462, Commonwealth v Crane,
158 Massachusetts, 218, Pervear v Commonwealth, 5 Wall.
475, we see no reason why the State itself may not exercise the
same power and reserve to itself the right to tax or prohibit, as
in individual cases it may see fit.
2-C-onmg now to the provisions for its enforcement, it is
entirely clear that, as to the person actually carrying on the
business, no notice of the assessment or levy of the tax is necessary If the person carries on the business, the imposition
of the tax follows as a matter of course. There is no discretion
as to the amount. McMillen v Anderson, 95 U S. 37, Hagar
v Reclamaton District, 111 U S. 701, Turpn v Lemon, 187
U S. 51, In re Smith, 104 Iowa, 199.
It was within the power of the legislature to make the tax
a lien upon the property whereon the business was carried.
If general taxes upon real estate and specific taxes for improvements thereto, including pavements, sidewalks, sewers,
the opening of streets and keeping them clean, may be made
liens upon the property affected, it is difficult to see why a tax

HODGE v. MUSCATINE COUNTY
196 U. S..

Opinion of the Court.

upon the business carried on upon such property may not be
made a lien as well as a claim against the owner. The owner
is not only chargeable with a knowledge of the law in respect
thereto, but he is presumed to know the business there carried
on, and to have let the property with knowledge that it might
become encumbered by a tax imposed upon such business.
Sheldon v Van Buskirk, 2 N Y 473, Brown Shoe Co. v Hunt,
103 Iowa, 586, Polk Co. v Hierb, 37 Iowa, 361, State v Snyder,
34 Kansas, 425, Hardten v State, 32 Kansas, 637, Sears v
Cottrell, 5 Michigan, 251, Walderon v Lee, 5 Pick. 323, Spencer
v M'Gowen & Shepard, 13 Wend. 256, Simpson v Serss, 2
Ohio Circuit Decisions, 246.
Acts of Congress impressing liens upon real estate for taxes
or penalties arising from business illegally carried on there,
have been the frequent subject of controversy m this court.
Conceding that the landowner is entitled to notice before
he can be personally liable, or before his property can be impressed with a lien, we are of opinion that he is protected by
sections 2441 and 2442, which permit him to make application at the meeting of the board of supervisors next following
the listing of the property, the sessions of which board are fixed
by law, Iowa Code, sec. 412, to remit the tax. This application may be made at any time after the property has been
assessed, upon eight days' notice being given to the county
attorney Witnesses are examined under oath before the
board, which determines by a majority vote whether the tax
shall stand or be remitted. If the petition be denied, the
owner of the property can appeal to the District Court for a
judicial determination of his liability This is sufficient. If
the taxpayer be given an opportunity to test the validity of
the tax at any time before it is made final, whether the proceedings for review take place before a board having a quast
judicial character, or before -a tribunal provided by the State
for the purpose of determining such questions, due process of
law is not denied. It was held by this court in Pittsburg &c.
R4. Co. v Backus, 154 U. S. 421, 426, that a hearing before

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

judgment, with full opportunity to present the evidence and
the arguments which the party deems important, is all that
can be adjudged vital. See also King v Mullins, 171 U. S.
404.
In the amendment to the petition in this case the landowner
states that she had no knowledge whatever that her real estate
was being used for the sale of cigarettes until after the assessment was levied, and never consented to the same; that she
resides m Illinois, and rented the property through an agent,
who had had no knowledge himself of the sale of cigarettes upon
the premises. There is no allegation, however, that she did
not have knowledge within ample time to make application to
the board of supervisors for the remission of the tax. If such
application had been made, it would have been the duty of the
board to take the matter into consideration and determine
whether her want of knowledge would justify the remission of
the tax. It is not for us to determine whether the defense be
a valid one, since, having the opportunity to make it, she
declined to do so.
The question is made whether section 5007 violates the
constitution of Iowa in not stating distinctly the tax and the
object to which it is to be applied, but as this is purely a local
question, we are not called upon to consider it.
Affirmed.
The CHIEF JUSTIcE, MR. JUSTICE BREWER and MR. JusTICE PEcKHAA dissented.

