SCOTTISH UNION & NAT INS. CO. v. BOWLAND. 611
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

SCOTTISH UNION AND NATIONAL INSURANCE COM-

PANY v. BOWLAND
BOWLAND v. SCOTTISH UNION AND NATIONAL INSURANCE COMPANY
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Nos. 30, 361.

Argued January 4, 5, 1905.-Decided February 20, 1905.

While technically municipal bonds deposited with the insurance commissioner under the laws of Ohio regulating the right of foreign companies
to do business within the State are investments m bonds, they are also
a part of the capital stock of the company invested in Ohio and required
to be so invested for the security of domestic policy holders, and for the
purposes of taxation to be considered as part of the capital stock of the
company and included within the statutory definition of personal property required to be returned by foreign and domestic corporations for
taxation.
While no tax can be levied without express authority of law, statutes are
to receive a reasonable construction with a view to carrying out their
purpose and intent, and
The collection by distraint of goods to satisfy taxes lawfully levied is one
of the most ancient methods known to the law and in this case the law
of Ohio authorizing it does not violate the constitutional right of a foreign insurance company and deprive it of its property without due process
of law.
There is nothing in the exemption of Government bonds from taxation which
prevents them from being seized for taxes due upon unexempt property.
The laws of the State of Ohio as construed by the Supreme Court of that
State have conferred the right to tax bonds deposited by a foreign insurance company with the insurance commissioner under the laws regulating
the right to do business in the State.
Where municipal bonds so deposited are withdrawn before the return day
and Government bonds substituted therefor as provided by law the
company is not liable for taxation on the bonds so withdrawn.
Where there is no personal liability for taxes the defense can be set up
in an action at law and there is no necessity to resort to equity to enjoin
prosecution of suits therefor. It will be presumed that if the claim of
the party taxed is right no personal judgment will be entered.

THESE cases are cross-appeals from a decree rendered in the

Circuit Court upon bill and demurrer.

The Scottish Union

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

and National Insurance Company, a corporation of Great
Britain, filed its bill to enjoin the defendants Willis G. Bowland, treasurer, and L. Ewing Jones, auditor of Franklin
County, Ohio, Arthur I. Vorys, superintendent of insurance,
and William S. McKinnon, treasurer, of the State of Ohio,
from the collection of taxes levied on certain bonds deposited
by the complainant under the laws of Ohio regulating the
right of foreign insurance companies to do business in that
State. It appears from the averments of the bill that the
bonds were deposited under section 3660 of the Revised Statutes of Ohio, as amended in 1894. 91 Ohio Laws, 40. They
were municipal bonds of the county of Lucas and State of
Ohio. Fifty thousand dollars thereof was deposited on September 14, 1894, and $50,000 on November 7, 1894. The
bonds were registered in the name of the superintendent of
insurance, in trust for the benefit and security of the policyholders of the insurance company, residing in Ohio, and were
delivered by him to the state treasurer for safe keeping, and
remained in the office of the treasurer of the State at Columbus,
Franklin County, Ohio, until withdrawn on April 2, 1903,
when 'United States bonds were substituted therefor.
The insurance company is transacting the business of insurance in Ohio, but it avers that its home office is m the city
of Edinburgh, Scotland, and its chief dffice and managing
agency for this country is at Hartford, Connecticut, from
which office it conducts its business m Ohio.
Acting under the Ohio statute, section 2781a (94 Ohio
Laws, 62), the auditor of Franklin County, by notice served
on one of the local agents of the Scottish Union and National
Insurance Company, notified it to appear and show cause
vhy the said bonds should not be taxed against it on the duplicate of Franklin County, Ohio, and taxes collected thereon for
the years 1895 to 1900, inclusive. The auditor entered upon
the tax duplicate taxes against the insurance company for
$2,700, each for the years 1895 to 1897, inclusive, and $2,750
each for the years 1898 to 1900 inclusive, and five per cent

SCOTTISH UNION"& NAT. INS. CO. v. BOWLAND. 613
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

penalty thereon. On November 15, 1900, the treasurer of
Franklin County brought a civil action against the -company
for taxes so assessed- This action at the time of the filing
of the bill was still pending in the Court of Common Pleas
of Franklin County, Ohio.
On December 4, 1903, another notice was served upon the
company, through its local agent, and the auditor entered
taxes against such company for the years 1901, 1902 and 1903,
m all the sum of $8,935.50. On April 2, 1904, the treasurer
of Franklin County procured a warrant of distraint, and upon
such warrant demanded of the superintendent of insurance
and the state treasurer the United States bonds so substituted
on April 2, 1903, for such municipal bonds, for the purpose of
seizing and selling the same to satisfy the taxes which had been
assessed against the company with respect to the municipal
bonds for the years 1895 to 1903, inclusive. It is averred that
to permit the collection of these taxes by suit for personal
judgment or distraint will be violative of complainant's treaty
rights as a subject of Great Britain, and will be taking complainant's property without due process of law, in violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States.
The prayer of the bill is, that the defendant, the treasurer
of Franklin County, be restrained from collecting or attempting to collect any of the taxes against the complainant personally; that the said treasurer be restrained from collecting
or attempting to collect said taxes or any portion of them by
distraint against either such bonds of the United States so
deposited or any personal property of complainant which may
now or hereafter be situated in the county of Franklin or the
State of Ohio, that the defendants, the superintendent of insurance and treasurer of the State of Ohio, be enjoined from
delivering or attempting to deliver said United States bonds
or any part thereof to the said county treasurer, and for such
other relief as equity and good conscience may require.
The respondents having interposed demurrers to the bill,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Insurance Company

196 U. S.

the court held that the municipal bonds on deposit in Ohio
were subject to taxation under the laws of the State, that there
was no personal liability of the complainant on account of said
taxes, and therefore a civil action to recover the taxes should
be enjoined, that for the year 1903 the collection of taxes could
not be enforced, as the United States bonds were substituted
before the time for returning property for that year; that the
bonds might be seized by distraint to satisfy the taxes levied
upon the municipal securities for the years they were on deposit, and the court therefore refused to enjoin the execution
of the distress warrant, except for the taxes and penalty for
the year 1903, and rendered a decree enjoining the collection
of the taxes by civil action.
Both parties appealed, the company from so much of the
decree as permitted distraint of the United States securities
for the collection of taxes levied with respect to the municipal
bonds, the treasurer and auditor of Franklin County from so
much of the decree as denies the right of the State to prosecute
a civil action against the company to recover the taxes aforesaid, and from so much thereof as restrained the officials from
attempting to collect the taxes assessed against the municipal
bonds for the year 1903.
Mr Judson Harmon and Mr Hartwell Cabell, with whom
Mr W 0 Henderson was on the brief, for Scottish Union and
National Insurance Company, appellant in No. 360 and appellee in No. 361
The municipal bonds deposited with the superintendent of
insurance by foreign insurance companies under the requirements of section 3660, Revised Statutes, Ohio, are not taxed
by the laws of Ohio.
Under State Tax on ForeignHeld Bonds Case, 15 Wall. 300;
Walker v Jack, 31 C. C. A. 462, New Orleans v Stempel, 175
U S. 309, Blackstone v Miller, 188 U S. 189, a State has the
right to class municipal bonds as tangible personal property,
and to tax them when found in the State, but the State of

SCOTTISH UNION & NAT. INS. CO. v. "BOWLAND. 615
196 U. S.

Argument for Insurance Company

Ohio has elected to treat such securities, not as tangible property, but as a species of intangible property, depending for
taxability, not upon the situs of the paper, but upon the situs
of some person in Ohio sustaining a specified relation to the
bonds; that as the constitution and statutes have been construed by the Supreme Court of Ohio, these requirements do
not here exist.
Judge Lurton in West. Assurance Co. v Halliday, 126 Fed.
Rep. 257, which was a case similar to this, ignores the fact
that the State has not by statute taxed such bonds. As such
the decision was contrary to the decisions of the Supreme
Court of Ohio, see Art. XII. Ohio Const. 1851, Lamb v Lane,
8 Ohio St. 167, Chisholm v Shields, 67 Ohio St. 374, §§ 27302735 and 2744-2746, Rev Stat. Ohio, Exchange Bank v
Hines, 3 Ohio St. 1, 39; Worthington v Sebastian,25 Ohio St.
1, 8, Myers v Seaberger, 45 Ohio St. 232, Lander v Burke,
65 Ohio St. 532.
Credits as well as municipal or railroad bonds would fall
within Judge Lurton's definition of personal property under
his construction of the same section and could be taxed whenever the paper evidence is found in Ohio, although neither
held nor owned by a person in the State, and contra this proposition see Brown v Noble, 42 Ohio St. 405, 409; Sommers v Boyd,
48 Ohio St. 648, Payne v Watterson, 37 Ohio St. 121, Sims v
Best, 1 Ohio. Cir. Ct. Rep. (N. S.) 41, S. C., 25 Ohio Cir. Ct.
Rep. 149, Hesntz v Cameron, 70 Ohio St. 491.
As to construction of a proviso such as that in § 21 of the
act of 1852, now §2745, see Dwarris on Statutes, 514, Minis
v United States, 15 Pet. 423, 445, In re Webb, 24 How Pr.
247, Boon v Joliet, 22 Illinois, 258, Walsh v Van Horn, 22
Ill. App. 170.
As to how these bonds are held and whether any person
in the State holds them in such capacity as would bring him
within the law requiring their return for taxation or as to
whether the superintendent of insurance is a trustee, see Myers
v Seaberger, 45 Ohio St. 232, Walker v Jack, 79 Fed. Rep. 138,

OCTOBER TERI, 1904.
Argument for-Insurance Company

196 U. S.

McNeill v Hagerty, 51 Ohio St. 255, 266, French v Bobe, 64
Ohio St. 323, 341, State v Matthews, 64 Ohio St. 419. For
the construction of other state statutes sinilar to those of
Ohio, see People v Home Ins. Co., 29 California, 534, 544,
Life Ins. Co. v Commisswners, 28 How Pr. 41, 57, Catlin v
Hull, 21 Vermont, 152, Hoyt v Commissioners, 23 N. Y 224,
Life Ins. Co. v Comptroller, 31 N. Y 32. The treatment of
Ohio of foreign insurance companies does not indicate the
intentions attributed in the Halliday Case, 126 Fed. Rep. 257
See State v Retnmund, 45 Ohio St. 214.
Appellant is a non-resident, absent from the State, and
personal judgment cannot be rendered against it. Rev Stat.,
Ohio, §2859; Judson on Taxation, § 414, Cooley on Taxation,
3d ed., 24, Pomeroy's Remedial Rights, § 1, State Tax an
Foreign Held Bonds, 15 Wall. 300, 319; Dewey v Des Moines,
173 U S. 193, 201, New York v McLean, 170 N. Y 374;
Bristol v Washington County, distinguished, and see Assesso~s v Compto'r National, 191 U S. 388, 403, Lafayette Ins. Co.
v French, 18 How 404.
The municipal bonds formerly on deposit being no longer
within the State, the taxes levied with respect to them cannot
now be collected by distraint or other proceeding sn rem
directed against the complainant's United States bonds now
deposited in the State.
For construction of §§ 2838 and 2731, see Spence v Frye, 2
Wkly Law Gaz. 103, Citizens' Bank Assignment, 2 West. L.
Monthly, 121, Chisholm v Shields, 67 Ohio St. 374. See also
as to freedom of bonds from lien, New Orleans v Stempel,
175 U S. 309.
The municipal bonds belonging to complainant formerly
on deposit having been removed from the State eleven days
prior to the day preceding the second Monday in April, 1903,
no taxes can be assessed with- reference to such bonds for the
year then beginning or any part thereof.
As to construction on §2737 see Shotwell v Moore, 129
U S. 590.

SCOTTISH UNION & NAT. INS. CO. v. BOWLAND. 617
196 U. S.

Argument for Bowland.

Mr Augustus T Seymour, with whom Mr Wade H. Ellis,
Attorney General of the State of Ohio, Mr Edward L. Taylor,
Jr., Mr Karl T Webber and Mr Thomas Ross were on the
brief, for Bowland and others, appellees in No. 360 and appellants in No. 361.

The bonds have a situs for taxation in Ohio and were properly taxed. West. Assurance Co. v Halliday, 110 Fed. Rep.
259; S. C., 126 Fed. Rep. 257, S. C., 193 U S. 673.
Municipal bonds are in such a concrete tangible form that
they are subject to taxation where found, irrespective of the
domicile of the owner, and a State has the right to tax such
bonds whenever they can be localized within its jurisdiction.
State Tax on ForeignHeld Bonds, 15 Wall. 300; Savings Loan
Society v Multnomah Co., 169 U S. 421, New Orleans v
Stenpel, 175 U. S. 309; Bristol v Washington Co., 177 U. S.
133, Judson on Taxation, § 394, Blackstone v Miller, 188
U S.'189; Board of Assessors v Comptotr National, 191 U S.
388, 403, Carstairs v Cochran, 193 U S. 10; Lee v Sturges,
46 Ohio St. 153, Hubbard v Brush, 61 Ohio St. 252.
Under the constitution and statute law of Ohio, investments
in bonds held in that State and owned by non-residents of the
State, are taxable within the State. Const. §2, Art. XII, §3,
Art. XIII, 44 Ohio Laws, 85, §§ 2734-2737,2744,2745, Rev
Stat., Lee v Sturges, 46 Ohio St. 153, Worthington v Sebastian,
25 Ohio St. 1, Grant v Jones, 39 Ohio St. 506, Sims v Best,
25 Ohio Cir. Dec. 149; Heintz v Cameron,.70 Ohio St. 491.
The nature of the deposit required by §3660 is not such
as to exempt bonds so deposited from taxation within the
State. British &c. Ins. Co. v Commission, 18 Abb. Pr. 118,
Int. Life Ins. Co. v Cbmmissson, 28 Barb. 318, People v
Home Ins. Co., 29 Califorma, 533.
Section 2745 provides a method of taxation for foreign
insurance compames in addition to th& general statutes authorizing the levy of taxes, and the legislature had no power
to substitute a special method of taxation for the provision
of the general laws relating thereto.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Bowland.

196 U. S.

Statutes which strip a government of any portion of its
prerogative or give exemption from the general burden,
should receive a strict interpretation. 1 Desty on Taxation,
180; Yazoo &c. Ry. Co. v Thomas, 132 U S. 174, New Orleans
&c. Ry. Co. v New Orleans, 143 U S. 192, Chicago &c. Ry. v
Guffey, 120 U S. 569; Phwnix Ins. Co. v Tennessee, 161 U. S.
174, Ere Ry. Co. v Pennsylvansa, 21 Wall. 492, Delaware
R. R. Tax, 18 Wall. 206.
The privilege exercised by appellant under § 3660 to substitute United States bonds for the municipal bonds upon
deposit with the superintendent of insurance, leaves the substituted bonds subject to all the obligations against the property originally on deposit.
The power of the State to impose conditions upon a nonresident seeking to engage in business within its borders is
beyond question. Waters-Perce Oil Co. v Texas, 177 U S.
28, Cooper v California, 155 U S. 648, Judson on Taxation,

§158.
The provisions in the statutes for summarily collecting the
taxes are not repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment. The
right of the sovereign to proceed m this manner is as old as the
common law 2 Desty on Tax. 750, 776, Judson on Tax.
§ 330; Palmer v McMahon, 133 U S. 660; Murray's Lessee
v Hoboken Land & Imp. Co., 18 How 272, 281, Spnnger v
United States, 102 U S. 586, Cooley on Tax. 302, Ohio Act
of 1792, Chase's Statutes, 119; 1 Ohio Laws, 58, 25 Ohio Laws,
25, 29 Ohio Laws, 291, Rev Stat. Ohio, § 1095.
There is no constitutional objection to the right of a State
to collect unpaid taxes, assessed on account of personal property, owned by a non-resident, having a taxing situs within
the State, by distraint of any property belonging to such nonresident found within the territorial limits of the State. Desty
on Tax. § 6, pp. 7, 11, and cases cited, Black's Law Dict. 253,
Blackstone, Bk. I, p. 138, Bk. II, pp. 2-15, 27 Am. & Eng.
Ency of Law, 648, 673. As to obligation to pay taxes, see
Railway Co. v Reynolds, 183 U S. 475, Allen v Armstrong,

SCOTTISH UNION & NAT. INS. CO. v. BOWLAND. 619
196 U. S.

Opinon of the Court.

16 Iowa, 512, Buck v Miller, 147 Indiana, 586, 597, Green v
Gruber, 26 Louisiana, 694, Cappen v. Hull, 21 Vermont, 152,
Remo on Non-Residents, §§ 25, 136, Picquet v Swan, 5 Mason,
35, McGoon v Scales, 9 Wall. 23, Drake on Attachments, § 57,
Pyrolucite W Co. v Ward, 73 Georgia, 491, Waples on Attachments, § 32, State v Meyer, 41 La. Ann. 439, Hall v Am.
RefIgerator Co., 24 Colorado, 291, Am. RefrIgerator Co. v
Hall, 174 U S. 70; Unon RefIgerator Co. v Lynch, 177 U S.
149; New York v McClasn, 170 N. Y 374, Dewey v Des
Momes, 173 U S. 193, distinguished, and see Brstol v Washington County, 177 U S. 133, 145, Pullman Co. v Pennsylvania, 141 U S. 18, Marye v Balt. & Ohw Ry. Co., 127 U S.
117, 123.
The United States bonds owned by a non-resident are subject to distraint to satisfy a charge against the owner. Plummer v Coler, 178 Ohio St. 115,27Am. & Eng. Ency of Law, 791.
The auditor's duty to list property omitted to be returned
does not depend on the presence of the property within the
State. Sturges v Carter, 114 U S. 511, 518, Winona and St.
Peter Land Co. v Minnesota, 159 U S. 526, Weyerhauser v
Minnesota, 176 U S. 550; Gager v Prout, 48 Ohio St. 89.
When the question under consideration is the right to an
exemption from taxation the statute is strictly construed
against the exemption. Railway Co. v New Orleans, 143
U. S. 192, Insurance Co. v Tennessee, 161 U S. 174, Delaware R. R. Tax, 18 Wall. 206.
MR. Jusmcp DAY, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
These cases may be considered together, as they are appeals
from a single decree and involve the right to assess and collect
taxes upon the municipal bonds deposited by the insurance
company under the laws of Ohio.
A considerable part of the opinion of the court below and the
discussion in the briefs of counsel goes to the question of the

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

power of the State to tax bonds, held as these were, within its
jurisdiction. At the oral argument, however, the learned
counsel representing the insurance company conceded that
there was legislative power to impose the taxes in question.
A reference to the decisions of this court makes it perfectly
plain that such taxation is within the power of the StatE
New Orleans v Stempel, 175 U S. 309, Brstol v Washington.
County, 177 U S. 133, Blackstone v Miller, 188 U. S. 189;
Board of Assessors v Comptosr Narwnal, 191 U S. 388, 403,
Carstasrsv Cochran, 193 U S. 10.
The contention for the company is, that conceding the power
of the State, it has never been exercised in the only way to
make it effectual, which is by statutory enactment, and that
the policy and statutes of Ohio have never authorized taxation of bonds deposited under the conditions shown in this
case.
The question, therefore, is, have the statutes of Ohio, read
in the light, of the construction placed upon them by the
Supreme Court of the State, conferred the right to tax these
municipal bonds?
Before entering upon a consideration of the statutes we may
say, in general terms, that we agree with the learned counsel
for the insurance company, that the scheme of taxation of
personal property in Ohio involves the requirement that it
shall be returned or listed by some person or corporation whose
duty it is by ]aw to return or list such property Provision
is not made for assessing or taxing personal property by proceedings ?n rem, but before a recovery for taxes can be justified,
either by action or distraint, it must appear that it was required to be returned for the purpose of taxation under some
law of the State.
The proceedings under which the taxes for the years included
m this case were charged against the insurance company by
the auditor of Franklin County are under a statute (Revised
Statutes of Ohio, section 278ia), having for its purpose the
correction of returns by those whose duty it was to return

SCOTTISH UNION & NAT. INS. CO. v. BOWLAND. 621
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

property for taxation, and making correction of returns so
as to include property which should have been returned, but
had been omitted, by some person charged by law with that

duty
Was it the duty of the insurance company or any one acting
for it to return these municipal bonds for taxation? They
were required to be deposited under section 3660, Rev Stat.
of Ohio, as amended, which reads as follows:
"SEc. 3660. [Certain companes must make deposit.]-A
company incorporated by or organized under the laws of a
foreign government shall deposit with the superintendent of
insurance, for the benefit and security of the policyholders
residing in this State, a sum not less than one hundred thousand dollars in stock or bonds of the United States, or the
State of Ohio, or any municipality or county thereof, which
shall not be received by the superintendent at a rate above
their par value; the stocks and securities so deposited may be
exchanged from time to time for other like securities; so long
as the company so depositing continues solvent and complies
with thelaws of this State, it shall be permitted by the superintendent to collect the interest or dividends on such deposits;
and for the purpose of this chapter the capital of any foreign
company doing fire insurance business in this State shall be
deemed to be the aggregate value of its deposits with the insurance or other departments of this State and of the other
States of the United States, for the benefit of policyholders in
this State or in the United States, and its assets and investments in the Umted States certified according to the provisions of this chapter; but such assets and investments must
be held within the Umted States and invested in and held by
trustees, who must be citizens of the United States, appointed
by the board of directors of the company and approved by
the insurance commissioner of the State where invested, for
the benefit of the policyholders and creditors in the United
States; and the trustees so chosen may take, hold and convey
real and personal property for the purpose of the trust, subject

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U.S.

to the same restrictions as companies of this State. [91 v 40;
70 v 147, § 21, (S. & S. 212).]"
This section is part of the chapter of the Ohio- statutes
regulating insurance companies other than life. In the same
chapter may be found other sections regulating the manner
of doing business in Ohio by insurance compaies, and in
section 3637 we find a provision as to how the capital of domestic insurance companies shall be invested, and such companies are required to invest their capital in certain United
States, state, county and miumcipal bonds, etc. These domestic companies are in like manner required to deposit such
securities with the commissioner for the benefit of their policyholders (Rev Stat. of Ohio, §§ 3593, 3595), and without such
deposit are not authorized to do business within the State.
As a condition of doing business in Ohio compames organized
under the laws of foreign governments are, by section 3660,
required to invest a portion of their capital in the stock or
bonds of the United States or of the State of Ohio, or some
municipality or county thereof, and make deposit of such
bonds with the superintendent of insurance for the benefit of
local policyholders. Subsequent provisions of the section
further show that this deposit is to be regarded as a part of the
capital of such foreign insurance company which may be considered in determining the aggregate capital of the company
required by law The companies are permitted to collect the
interest or dividends on the securities. These deposits constitute a fund primarily for the benefit of such policyholders,
and after their claims are satisfied may be turned over to an
assignee or devoted to other purposes. Falkenbach v Patterson, 43 Ohio St. 359; State v Matthews, 64 Ohio St. 419.
This statute, therefore, provides for the manner of investment of a portion of the capital stock of a foreign insurance
company within the State of Ohio for the protection of the
policyholders within the State. It is more than a mere "investment in bonds." It is also a part of the capital stock
required to be deposited as a condition of doing business

SCOTTISH UNION & NAT. INS. CO. v. BOWLAND. 623
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

within the State and devoted to the benefit of local stockholders.
The authority to enact laws for the inposition of taxes is
found in the constitution of the State, Article 12, section 2,
which provides: "Laws shall be passed, taxing by a uniform
rule, all moneys, credits, investments in bonds, stocks, joint
stock companies, or otherwise, and also all real and personal
property according to its true value in money"
-Section 2731 provides, in language similar to that used in
the constitution, for the taxation of all property, real and
personal, in the State, and all moneys, credits, investments in
bonds, stocl, or otherwise, of persons residing in the State.
This section is found in the first chapter of Title 13, "Taxation," of the Ohio Statutes, and is in part in the following
language.
"SEc. 2731. All property whether real or personal in this
State, and whether belonging to individuals or corporations;
and all moneys, credits, investments in bonds, stocks, or otherwise, of persons residing in this State, shall be subject to taxation, except only such as may be expressly exempted therefrom, and such property, moneys, credits, and investments
shall be entered on the list of taxable property as prescribed
in this title."
The argument for the insurance company is, that this
preliminary section, read with the other sections of the Ohio
law upon the subject, excludes "investment in bonds" from
being embraced in a general description of personal property,
and limits their taxation to persons residing in the State, or
(under section 2730) where they are held within the State for
others by persons residing therein.
Section 2730 of the same chapter is a section giving definitions of terms used in the title. So far as it is pertinent in this
connection, that section is as follows:
The terms 'investments in bonds,'
"Sic. 2730.
shall be held to mean and include all moneys in bonds, or
certificates of indebtedness, or other evidences of indebted-.

OCTOBER TERMT, 1901.
Opimon of the Court.

196 U. S.

ness of whatever kind, whether issued by incorporated or unincorporated compaies, towns, cities, villages, townships,
counties, States or other incorporations, or by the United
States, held by persons residing in this State, whether for
,hemselves or others."
If these sections embrace all the statutory laws of the State,
together they tax investments in bonds held by residents,
because of jurisdiction over the person of the owner, and those
held by residents for other owners, and if such reside out of the
State, because of jurisdiction over the property held within
the State.
Section 2744 undertakes to make provision for the taxation
of corporations generally, and is as follows:
"SEc. 2744. [Corporations generally; their returns.]-The
president, secretary, and principal accounting officer of every
canal or slackwater navigation company, turnpike company,
plank-road company, bridge company, insurance company,
telegraph company, or other joint stock company, except
banking or other corporations whose taxation is specifically
provided for, for whatever purpose they may have been created,
whether incorporated by any law of thisState or not, shall list
for taxation, verified by the oath of the person so listing, all the
personal property, which shall be held to include all such real
estate as is necessary to the daily operations of the company,
moneys and credits of such company or corporation within
the State, at the actual value in money, in manner following: In all cases return shall be made to the several auditors
of the respective counties where such property may be situated,
together with a statement of the amount of said property
which is situated in each township, village, city or ward
therein. The value of all movable property shall be added to
the stationary and fixed property and real estate, and apportioned to such wards, cities, villages, or townships, pro rata,
in proportion to the value of the real estate and fixed property
in said ward, city, village or township, and all property so
listed shall be subject to and pay the same taxes as other prop-

SCOTTISH UNION & NAT. INS. CO. v. BOWILAND. 625
196 U. S.

Opion of the Court.

erty listed in such ward, city, village or township. It shall be
the duty of the accounting officer aforesaid to make return to
the auditor of State during the month of May of each year of
the aggregate amount of all property by him returned to the
several auditors of the respective counties in which the same
may be located. It shall be the duty of the auditor of each
county, on or before the first Monday of May, annually, to
furnish the aforesaid president, secretary, principal accountmg officer, or agent, the necessary blanks for the purpose of
making aforesaid returns; but no neglect or failure on the part
of the county auditor to furnish such blanks shall excuse any
such president, secretary, principal accountant, or agent, from
making the returns withm the time specified herein. If the
county auditor to whom returns are made is of the opinion
that false or incorrect valuations have been made, or that the
property of the corporation or association has not been listed
at its full value, or that it has not been listed in the location
where it properly belongs, or in cases where no return has been
made to the county auditor, he is hereby required to proceed
to have the same valued and assessed. provided, that nothing
in this section shall be so construed as to tax any stock or
interest in any joint stock company held by the State. [73
v 139, § 16, (S. & C. 1446).]"
This section is broad in its terms, and requires the return
of the property, among others, of insurance companies, whether
incorporated by the laws of Ohio or not, and such companies
are required to list for taxation "all the personal property,
which shall be held to include all such real estate as is necessary
to the daily operations of the company, moneys and credits
of such company or corporation within the State, at its actual
value in money"
The Supreme Court of Ohio has expressly held that this
section applies to foreign as well as domestic corporations.
Hubbard v Brush, 61 Ohio St. 252, Lander v Burke, 65 Ohio

St. 532, 542.
This section, therefore, requires of both foreign and domestic
VOL. CxovI-40

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U:S.

insurance companies that they return the personal property
mentioned which is within the State. What is meant by
"personal property," in this connection? Referring to section 2730 we find it provided that the terms "personal property," when used in the title, shall be held to mean and inelude, among other things, the capital stock, undivided profits
and all other means not forming a part of the capital stock of
every company
In the case of domestic corporations, and assuming that this
statute applies, as has been held by the Supreme Court of Ohio,
with equal force to foreign corporations, this definition of personal property must be held to include not only the paid-rn
capital stock of the company, but as well the bonds, or securities in which it may be invested.
This question was before the Supreme Court of Ohio in
Jones v Dais, 35 Ohio St. 474.
In that case the act of May 11, 1878, was before the court.
It contained provisions similar to those of the Revised Statutes, requiring personal property of every description, moneys
and credits, mvestmeAts in bonds, stock, joint stock companies,
or otherwise, to be listed in the name of the person who is the
owner thereof on the day preceding the second Monday of
April in each year.

Section 11 of that act made provisions similar to those found
in section 2744, requiring incorporated companies to list for
taxation all their personal property which, by the terms of the
statute, was made to include all such real estate as was necessary to the daily operation of the company, and all its moneys
and credits within the State at their actual value in money
After citing Bank Tax Case, 2 Wall. 200, and Farrngton v
Tennessee, 95 U S. 679, Judge Boynton, delivering the opinion
of the court, said.
"For the purposes of taxation, the capital stock is repre-

sented by whatever it is invested in. Personal property, by
the express wording of the statute, is made to include the
capital stock of a corporation, and the provision above referred

SCOTTISH UNION & NAT. INS. CO. v. BOWLAND. 627
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to requires all corporations doing business m this State, except
banking and others whose taxation is specifically provided for,
to list all their personal property, including in the return
thereof all such real estate as is necessary to the daily operation
of their business, together with their moneys and credits of
eveiy description within the State. That the legislature intended, by this description of property, to embrace the capital
stock of the company is too obvious to be misunderstood. No
other meaning can be drawn from the language employed,
and no other construction is better calculated to do justice."
In Lee v Sturges, 46 Ohio St. 153, 160, Judge Spear, speakmg for the court, said.
"It may be assumed that 'capital stock' and 'capital and
property' mean practically the same thing. Primarily the
'capital stock' is the money paid in by the stockholders in
compliance with the terms of their subscriptions. It soon,
however, takes the form of real estate, or personal property,
or both, including machinery, buildings, credits, rights in action, etc. So that it may here be taken to mean personal
property, and such real estate as may be necessary to the daily
operations of the company, and its moneys and credits. The
capital is thus represented by the property in which it has been
invested."

We think this language pertinent in the consideration of the
case before us. While technically the bonds deposited with the
insurance commissioner are investments in bonds, they are also
a part of the capital stock of the company invested in Ohio,
and require to be so invested for the security of domestic
policyholders, and, for the purposes of taxation, to be considered a part of the capital stock of the company and ineluded within the definition of "personal property," as given
in section 2730.
This conclusion is reinforced by the decision in Hubbard v
Brush, 61 Ohio St. 252. In that case the Supreme Court of
Ohio held that a foreign corporation transacting business in
Ohio was required to return its property within the State where

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

196 U. S.

it was carrying on business, although the corporation was
organized under the laws of West Virgmia.
The court admitted that the situs of intangible property is
ordinarily at the local residence of the corporation, within the
State where it was incorporated. Nevertheless, as the promissory notes and book accounts and other evidence of indebtedness must be presumed to have been in the company's office
in this State, they were taxable as personal property under
section 2744.
In the course of the opinion Judge Bradbury said.
"Where foreign corporations voluntarily bring their property and business into this State to avail themselves of advantages found here which they believe will enhance the
probabilities that the business they intend to pursue will be
profitable, they should not be heard to complain of laws which
tax them as domestic corporations are taxed by the State. We
hold, therefore, that the provisions of section 2744, which make
it the duty of foreign corporations to list for taxation in this
State, their choses in action, where they are held within this
State and grow out of the business they conduct herein, is a
valid exercise of the taxmg powers vested in the State."
Under section 2744, corporations, foreign and domestic, are
required to return all personal property for taxation, which,
among other things, the statute expressly declares shall inelude moneys and credits of such company or corporation
within the State. If the construction contended for shall
prevail, a corporation, with capital invested in bonds, would
escape taxation, while one holding its investments in notes or
certificates of deposit in bank will be compelled to return them
for taxation-a condition of things so manifestly unjust that
we cannot hold it to have been within the intent of the legislature in framing taxing laws unless the statutes clearly admit
of no other construction. The purpose of the Ohio constitution and statutes passed in pursuance thereof, as has been
frequently declared by the Supreme Court of Ohio, is to tax
by a uniform rule all property owned or held within the State.

SCOTTISH UNION & NAT. INS. CO. v. BOWLAND. 629
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

A narrow construction, which will defeat this purpose, should
not be adopted.
The statutes, specifically mentioning "investments in
bonds," were intended to reach and tax, and not to exempt,
that class of personal property The purpose to tax all real
and personal property, declared in the statute, was further
emphasized by express mention of certain classes of property,
such as investments in bonds, so that by no process of exclusion
could such securities escape the burdens inposed upon all
property owned or held within the State.
The sections taxing individuals holding such securities were
not intended to -put limitations upon other sections of the law
taxing the property of corporations held within the State and
enjoying the protection of its laws, and affording a basis for
credit in the transacting of business. There is no reason why
the law should tax such securities m the hands of individual
residents, whether owned or held by them for others, and
permit them to escape taxation when they represent invested
capital of incorporated companies, sharing the protection of
the Government and equally bound in morals, at least, to help
bear the burdens of the State.
That such securities might justly be taxed was freely admitted in the argument at bar, and the sole contention was that
the lack of statutory power to tax these securities is a casus
omssus in legislation which the courts cannot supply
It may be conceded that no tax can be levied without express authority of law, but the statutes are to receive a reasonable construction with a view to carrying out their purpose
and intent.
We have examined the decisions of the Supreme Court of
Ohio, cited by counsel, construing the statutes of the State,
and believe none of them to be inconsistent with the conclusions we have reached, and those above cited, .in our opinion,
are direct authority for the construction given. All the sections must be construed together to attain the object and intent of the law Section 2731, standing alone, might limit the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

196 U. S.

right to tax investments in bonds to residents of the State. It
is certainly enlarged by section 2730 to include such investments when held for others by residents within the State.
Read with sections 2734, 2735, 2744 and 2746, we think the
purpose is manifest to require the return and taxation of all
personal property, except the small exemptions allowed, within
the jurisdiction of the State.
But it is urged if section 2744 could otherwise be held to
require a return of these bonds by the insurance company,
that the company comes within the exception of the statute
excluding banking or other corporations whose taxation is
specifically provided for in other parts of the Title. And it is
argued that section 2745 of the Revised Statutes of Ohio
makes express provision for the taxation of foreign insurance
companies.
Examination of this section shows that it imposes a tax upon
the business of the company in Ohio, and is not a property but
a privilege tax. An insurance company is required to return
in each county the amount of the gross premium receipts of its
agency for the previous calendar year, and under certain
regulations the company is taxed upon the amount of business
done.
This section does not levy a tax upon property There are
subsequent statutory provisions of a special character, upon
which the exception of section 2744 may operate, taxing the
property of railroad companies, banks, express, telegraph and
telephone compames, etc., but there is no other provision inposing a property tax upon foreign insurance companes within
the State.
The requirement that these bonds should be deposited for
the security of the local policyholders brought a part of the
capital of such company into the State of Ohio upon the
strength of which it transacts its business and obtains credit
within the State. Clearly, such property is not intended to
be taxed within the provisions reaching the business done in
the State of Ohio under section 2745.

SCOTTISH UNION & NAT. INS. CO. v. BOWLAND. 631
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

But it is said that there is no person within the State required to return this property We think it is the duty of the
officers of the insurance company, under section 2744, to return the property, and that the place to return it is where the
property is situated. This is clearly required by the terms of
this section, and section 2735, making provision for the place
of listing personal property, provides:
"And all other personal property, moneys, credits, and investments, except as otherwise specially provided, shall be
listed in the township, city, or village in which the person to
be charged with taxes thereon may reside at the time of the
listing thereof, if such person reside within the county where
the same are listed, and if not, then in the township, city, or
village where the property is when listed."
These bonds were the property of the corporation taxable
under the statutes, and, at the time when they should have
been listed, were held in the city of Columbus, Franklin County,
Ohio, and should have been there returned.
It is further argued that to distram the property of the
company for the collection of these taxes would be a violation
of the constitutional rights of the insurance company, and the
taking of its property without due process of law Section 1095
provides:
"SEc. 1095. [Overdue taxes may be collected by distress.]When taxes are past due and unpaid, as stated in the preceding
section, the county treasurer, or his deputy, may distrain
sufficient goods and chattels belonging to the person or persons
charged with such taxes, if found within his county, to pay
the taxes so remaining due and the costs that have accrued,
and shall immediately proceed to advertise the same in three
public places in the township where such property was taken,
stating the time when, and the place where, such property will
be sold, and if the taxes and costs which have accrued thereon
are not paid before the day appointed for such sale, which shall
be not less than ten days after the taking of such property,
such treasurer, or his deputy, shall proceed to sell such prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opmnon of the Court.

196 U. S.

erty at public vendue, or so much thereof as will be sufficient
to pay said taxes and the costs of such distress and sale. (29
v 291, § 19; S. & C. 1586.)"
This section authorizes the distraint of goods to satisfy taxes
lawfully levied against property within the county and State.
This method of collecting taxes is one of the most ancient
known to the law, and has frequently received the sanction of
the courts. Murray's Lessees v Hoboken Land &c. Co., 18
How 272, 276, Springer v United States, 102 U S. 586,
Cooley on Taxation, 302, Palmer v McMahon, 133 U S. 660.
There is nothing in the exemption of Government bonds
from taxation which prevents them from being seized for taxes
due upon unexempt property We have held that the taxes
were lawfully assessed. The statute authorizing a distraint
gave the right to proceed against personal property within the
jurisdiction of the State. The taxes were lawful, and the
property belonging to a foreign corporation which could be
seized within the authority of the State might be taken under
this statute, and we do not perceive that any constitutional
right of the company is violated by seizing its property under
such circumstances. Brstol v Washington County, 177 U. S.
133, Marye v Baltimore & Oho R. R. Co., 127 U S.117
As to the right to assess taxes for the year 1903, it appears
that these municipal bonds were withdrawn from the State
some time before the return day, which is the day preceding
the second Monday in April, and such withdrawal was in the
exercise of a lawful right of the company to do, and other
securities were substituted as provided by law We do not
think that the fact that it had bonds in the State for a time
which were taxable justified the imposition of this tax, where
the non-taxable securities were substituted before the return
day
As to the question of personal liability of the insurance company to judgment in an action brought to recover the amount
of the taxes, we think the court should not have issued an
injunction, as was done, against the prosecution of civil suits

SCOTTISH UNION & NAT. INS. CO. v. BOWLAND. 633
196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

for this purpose. If there is no personal liability for these
taxes-a point which we do not feel called upon to decideit is perfectly clear that if service could be had which would
make a personal judgment proper, the company could set up
its defense by answer in the action at law, and there is no necessity to resort to a court of equity for relief. It will be presumed, if the claim of the company is right, no personal
judgment will be rendered against it, and if its theory of the
controversy is correct no such judgment can be lawfully rendered. In such case the authorities are uniform that equity
will not interfere by injunction, but leave the party to his
defense at law Revised Statutes of United States, §723,
Insurance Company v Bailey, 13 Wall. 616, 623, Grand Chute
v Winegar, 15 Wall. 373, Deweese v Reinhard, 165 U S. 386.
Upon the whole case we reach the conclusion that the Circuit Court was right in sustaining the demurrer so far as the
bill averred the non-taxability of these bonds, or the right of
the treasurer to proceed by distraint, and in overruling the
demurrer as to the taxes for the year 1903, but, for the reasons
stated; erred in enjoining the prosecution of a civil action seeking a personal judgment.
In this view, the decree below will be reversed and the cause
remanded for further proceedings n conformity to thts
optnwn.

