McDANIEL v. TRAYLOR.
196 U. S.

Syllabus.

and the operation of the general laws of New Jersey was
reserved as therein provided. Fort Leavenworth R. R. Company v Lowe, 114 U S. 525, Chwago, Rock Island & Pacific
Railway Company v McGlinn, 114 U S. 542.
Moreover, as was held by the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit, in Middleton v La Compagnw Gnrale
Transatlantique,100 Fed. Rep. 866, the act did not purport
to transfer jurisdiction over the littoral waters beyond low
water mark, and for the purposes of this case the public laws
of New Jersey must be regarded as obtaining there, whether
enacted prior or subsequent to the cession.
Judgment affirmed.

McDANIEL v. TRAYLOR.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 129. Submitted January 16,190.-Decided February 20, 1905.

Complainants, who were heirs at law of an intestate leaving real estate the
undivided interest of each being valued at over S2,000, and situated within
the jurisdiction of the court, filed their bill in the proper Circuit Court of
the United States against proper parties, citizens of other States, alleging
that defendants had combined to procure and had fraudulently procured
orders of the probate court allowing their claims against one of the heirs
at law as claims against the intestate whereby such claims became liens
upon the intestate's real estate; the claim of each defendant was less
than $2,000 but the aggregate amount exceeded $2,000. So far as the
allegations of the bill were concerned if any one of the claims was good
all were good and the prosecution of one could not be enjoined unless all
were enjoined. The bill prayed that the cloud on title of the intestate's
real estate be removed by declaring the claims invalid and enjoining proceedings under the judgments of the probate court. The defendants were
proceeded against under the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470. The
Circuit Court dismissed the bill for want of jurisdiction. Held error and

that

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

It was competent for the Circuit Court upon the case made by the bill to
deprive defendants acting in combination of the benefit of the orders
made in the probate court allowing their respective claims.
In this case the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court does not depend, within
the iudiciary act of 1887, 1888, on the value of complainants' interest in
the real estate from which the cloud is sought to be removed but on the
aggregate amount of the liens of all of the defendants' clauns which had
been allowed by the probate court against the intestate's estate pursuant
to the alleged combination.

THIS was a suit in equity instituted in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Arkansas by the
appellants, citizens of Arkansas, against the appellees, more
than thirty in number and respectively citizens, corporate and
individual, of Tennessee, New York, Missouri, Illinois, New
Jersey, Connecticut, Ohio and Georgia.
There was a demurrer to the bill by some of the defendants
upon the ground, among others, that the Circuit Court had no
jurisdiction of the parties and subject matter. The demurrer
was sustained, and the bill dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
The question of jurisdiction depends, of course, upon the
allegations of the bill. The case made by the bill is this:
On the thirteenth day of April, 1891, Hiram Evans, a resident of St. Francis County, Arkansas, died intestate and
possessed of personal property exceeding $12,000 in value.
He was also seized in fee of 760 acres of land of the value
of about $16,000, and left surviving him as his only heirs at
l~w the three appellants, and three sons, James Evans, William
E. Evans and John Evans.
By an order made April 21, 1891, in the Probate Court of
the county, James Evans was appointed administrator of the
estate of the intestate. Having duly qualified as such, he
took possession of all the assets of the estate and acted as such
administrator until his death.
Among the assets that came to his hands as administrator
was a drug store which with its stock of goods, fixtures, book
accounts and other things therein contained was sold and
delivered by him to John Evans on the first day of May, 1891.

McDANIEL v. TRAYLOR.
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

The latter conducted the business in his own name, and while
doing so incurred debts and obligations to the defendants in
this suit, aggregating $3,000, as well as debts and obligations
to other persons, but no single one of his debts exceeded
$2,000.
John Evans became insolvent and on May 27, 1892, transferred and delivered to James Evans, administrator of Hiram
Evans, the drug store and all that remained of the stock of
goods, fixtures and book accounts.
Thereupon, the bill alleged, the defendants herein "conspired, colluded and confederated" together and with John
Evans and with James Evans, administrator, to secure the
payment of their clains and demands against John Evans out
of the assets of the estate of Hiram Evans, deceased, and, "so
conspiring and confederating," they presented to the Probate
Court their several claims and demands-and James Evans,
administrator, fraudulently and illegally approved them-for
allowance against the estate of Hiram Evans.
The bill also alleged that the defendants and the administrator of Hiram Evans, still conspiring and confederating
together, procured the judgment of the Probate Court establishing their claims against the estate of Hiram Evans by concealing from the court the fact that they were debts and obligations of John Evans and cloaking them under the name
of expenses of administration of the said estate, "all of which
transactions were part of the same scheme, and were participated in by each and all of the said defendants and by said
John Evans and said James Evans, administrator."
It was further alleged. "That the said judgments of said
court establishing and allowing the respective claims and demands of the defendants herein against the said estate were
wholly the result of the conspiracy and confederation hereinbefore mentioned, and the fraud practiced in pursuance thereof
as aforesaid, and are, therefore, in equity and good conscience,
void and ineffectual for any purpose whatsoever and ought not
to be enforced, but that nevertheless the same are at law liens
VOL. CxovI-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

upon the real estate hereinbefore described and charges against
the respective interests" of the plaintiffs; that, m pursuance of
the said conspiracy and confederation, the defendants, and
John Evans and James Evans, concealed from the plaintiffs the
matters and things hereinbefore complained of, and failed to
disclose to them the sale of the drug store to John Evans, and
the fact that the said claims and demands of defendants were
the personal debts and obligations of John Evans; that it had
been determined by the Supreme Court of the State m certain
proceedings relating to the matters here m controversy that
neither the Probate Court nor the state Circuit Court on
appeal had jurisdiction to hear or determine equitable issues,
and that plaintiffs' remedy lay "in an original proceeding m a
court of competent chancery jurisdiction, and that the said
action and ruling of the said Supreme Court was without
prejudice to your orators' beginning and maintaining this bill
of complaint."
The bill still further alleged that under the law 6f Arkansas
the judgment of the Probate Court, allowing and classifying
the demands of defendants, passed beyond the control of that
court at the expiration of the term at which the same was
rendered, and that thereafter it was not within its power to
alter, amend or set aside the same, that the time within which
plaintiffs might have taken an appeal, or have compelled the
administrator to take an appeal from the judgment, had expired long prior to the time when they acquired knowledge of
the matters and things hereinbefore complained of, that by
reason thereof plaintiffs are wholly without remedy in the
premises unless the relief prayed be granted them, that all the
acts and doings of the defendants toward procuring the said
judgments of the Probate Court were wrongful, fraudulent and
inequitable, and tended to the manifest wrong, injury and
oppression of plaintiffs; and that in equity and good conscience the defendants ought not to have or enjoy the benefit
or advantage of the said judgments.
The relief prayed was that the judgments of the Probate

McDANIEL v. TRAYLOR.
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Court be set aside and held not to be valid or lawful liens upon
or against the real estate herein described, nor upon the right,
title or interest therein of the plaintiffs; that the defendants
be enjoined from enforcing such judgments or from taking
any benefit, profit or advantage by them, and that all the
defendants being without the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court,
an order be made directing them to be notified of this suit by
publication, according to the provisions of the act of Congress
of March 3, 1875. 18 Stat. 470.
By the act just referred to it was, among other things, provided. "SE. 8. That when m any suit, commenced m any
Circuit Court of the United States, to enforce any legal or
equitable lien upon, or clain to, or to remove any encumbrance
or lien or cloud upon the title to real or personal property
within the district where such suit is brought, one or more of
the defendants therein shall not be an inhabitant of, or found
within, the said district, or shall not voluntarily appear thereto,
it shall be lawful for the court to make an order directing such
absent defendant or defendants to appear, plead, answer, or
demur, by a day certain to be designated, which order shall be
served on such absent defendant or defendants, if practicable,
wherever found, and also upon the person or persons in possession or charge of said property, if any there be, or where
such personal service upon such absent defendant or defendants is not practicable, such order shall be published m such
manner as the court may direct, not less than once a week
for six consecutive weeks; and in case such absent defendant
shall not appear, plead, answer, or demur within the time so
limited, or within some further time, to be allowed by the
court, in its discretion, and upon proof of the service or publication of said order, and of the performance of the directions
contained in the same, it shall be lawful for the court to entertam jurisdiction, and proceed to the hearing and adjudication
of such suit in the same manner as if such absent defendant
had been served with process within the said district; but said
adjudication shall, as regards said absent defendant or de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Appellants.

196 U. S.

fendants without appearance, affect only the property which
shall have been the subject of the suit and under the jurisdic"
Rev
tion of the court therein within such district.
Stat. Supp., vol. 1, pp. 84, 85, 18 Stat. 470, c. 137
Upon demurrer to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court that
court dismissed the suit, being of opinion that the value of the
matter in dispute was not sufficient to give jurisdiction. McDaniel v Traylor, 123 Fed. Rep. 338.
Mr G B .Webster and Mr J R. Beasley for appellants:
The bill being for removal of cloud on title the value of the
property affected controls. As to nature of the bill see Coke
Litt. 100a, Black's Law Diet. 214, Welden v Stwkney, 1 D. C.
App. 343, Cooley on Taxation, 542, Detroit v Martn, 34
Michigan, 170; Bizssell v Kellogg, 60 Barb. 629; Lick v Ray,
43 California, 83 , Ward v Dewey, 16 N. Y 531 , Byne v

Vivian, 5 Ves. 604, Dull's Appeal, 113 Pa. St. 516. As to
jurisdictional amount involved in such cases, see Smith v
Adams, 130 U S. 175, Simon v House, 46 Fed. Rep. 317,
Woodside v Ciceroni, 93 Fed. Rep. 1, Cowell v Water Supply
Co., 96 Fed. Rep. 769; S. C., 121 Fed. Rep. 53, Fullerv Grand
Rapids, 40 Michigan, 395, Scripture v Johnson, 3 Connecticut,
211, Queyrouse v Thibodeaux, 30 La. Ann. 1114, Simon v
Richard, 42 La. Ann. 842, Kahn v Kerngold, 80 Virgina, 342,
Ayers v Blair, 26 W Va. 558.
The value of the property being the test of the jurisdictional
amount, the complainants could have proceeded against any
of the defendants irrespective of the amount of his claim, and
therefore may join all in one bill, unless that would make the
bill multifarious, and in this case it does not have that effect.
Fellows v Fellows, 4 Cow 682, Story's Eq. Pl. ยง 271, Gaines v
Chew, 2 How 619.
Even though the value of the real estate is not the true test
of the amount in controversy, the complainants were entitled
to join the several defendants in one bill, and when so joined

McDANIEL v. TRAYLOR.
196 U. S.

Argument for Appelees.

the aggregate amount of their claims was the amount m controversy 1 Pomeroy Eq. Jur., 2d ed., ยง269; Waterworks v
Youmans, L. R. 2 Ch. 8, Campbell v Mackay, 1 Myl. & Cr.
603, Hardiev Bulger, 66 Mississippi, 577, De Forrestv Thompson, 40 Fed. Rep. 375, Brown v Safe Dep. Co., 128 U S. 403,
N Y & N H. R. R. Co. v Schuyler, 17 N. Y 592.
Even if the transactions of which complaint is made were
separate as to the several defendants, yet if it is alleged that
all were part of the same fraudulent scheme or conspiracy,
the bill is not multifarious. Duff v Bank, 13 Fed. Rep. 65,
Pullman v Stebbins, 51 Fed. Rep. 10; Marshall v Holmes, 141
U. S. 589; Shields v Thomas, 17 How 3, Clay v Field, 138
U. S. 479; Handley v Stutz, 137 U S. 369; Dams v Schwartz,
155 U S. 647, Illinois Central v Coffery, 128 Fed. Rep. 770;
Walter v Railroad Co., 147 U S. 370; Railroad Co. v Walker,
148 U S. 392, Fishback v Telegraph Co., 161 U S. 96, Bank
v Cannon, 164 U S. 319 and Gibson v Shufeldt, 122 U S. 27,
distinguished.
Mr N W Norton for appellees:
Where the bill is to relieve property of a lien or charge, the
amount of the lien and not the value of the property is the
test of jurisdiction. Ross v Prentiss, 3 How 771, Came v
Russ, 152 U S. 250; Farmers' Bank v Hoop, 7 Pet. 168,
Peyton v Robertson, 9 Wheat. 527, Gibson v Shufeldt, 122
U S. 27
Separate cases cannot be combined to make up the jurisdictional amount. Walter v Railroad Co., 147 U S. 370;
Slaver v Bigelow, 5 Wall. 208, Russell v Stansell, 105 U S.
303, Trust Co. v Waterman, 106 U S. 265, Hawley v Fairbanks, 108 U S. 543, Stewart v Dunham, 115 U S. 61, Clay v
Field, 138 U S. 464.
The bill is against persons who must respond severally to
the plaintiffs if at all and neither of the judgments is for as
much as $2,000. The clans were all separate and cannot be
united in one action without making it multifarious.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

If, within the meaning of the judiciary act of 1887, 1888,
the value of the matter in dispute exceeded the sum of two
thousand dollars, exclusive of interest and costs (25 Stat.
433), then there was no reason for dismissing the bill for want
of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court, for, diversity of citizenship
was shown by the bill, and under the above act of March 3,
1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470, it was competent for the Circuit
Court, by a final decree, to remove any encumbrance or lien
or cloud upon the title to real or personal property within the
district, as against persons not inhabitants thereof and not
found therein, or who did not voluntarily appear in the suit.
The lands of which Hiram Evans died possessed were of the
alleged value of $16,000, and we assume that the plaintiffs
jointly owned one undivided half of them. Was the value of
the joint interest of the plaintiffs in the lands in question to
be deemed the value of the matter in dispute, or was the
Circuit Court without jurisdiction if no one of the alleged
fraudulent claims held by the defendants exceeded two thousand dollars, exclusive of interest and costs?
Some light will be thrown upon this question by certain
cases in which this court held it to be competent for a Circuit
Court, in a suit in equity, to deprive parties of the benefit of
a judgment or order fraudulently obtained by them in a state
court.
In Johnson v Waters, 111 U S.640, 667, the question was
as to the authority of a Circuit Court to set aside as fraudulent
and void certain sales made by a testamentary executor under
the orders of a Probate Court. Conceding that the admnstration of the estate there in question properly belonged to
the Probate Court, and that in a general sense its decisions
were conclusive, especially upon parties, Mr. Justice Bradley,
speaking for this court said. "But this is not umversally true.
The most solemn transactions and judgments may, at the

McDANIEL 'v. TRAYLOR.
196 U. S.

Opinon of the Court.

instance of the parties, be set aside or rendered inoperative
for fraud. The fact of being a party does not estop a person
from obtaining in a court of equity relief against fraud. It
is generally parties that are the victims of fraud. The Court
of Chancery is always open to hear complaints against it,
whether committed 7n paws or in or by means of judicial proceedings. In such cases the court does not act as a court of
review, nor does it inquire into any irregularities or errors of
proceeding in another court; but it will scrutinize the conduct
of the parties, and if it finds that they have been guilty of
fraud in obtaining a judgment of decree, it will deprive them
of the benefit of it, and of any inequitable advantage which
they have derived under it."
In Arrowsmith v Gleason, 129 U S. 86, 98, the question
was whether the Circuit Court had jurisdiction by its decree to
set aside a sale of an infant's lands fraudulently made by his
guardian under authority derived from a Probate Court, and
give such relief as would be consistent with equity One of
the grounds of demurrer to the bill in that case was that the
Circuit Court had no authority to set aside and vacate the
orders of the state court. This court said. "If by this is meant
only that the Circuit Court cannot by its orders act directly
upon the Probate Court, or that the Circuit Court cannot
compel or require the Probate Court to set aside or vacate its
.own orders, the position of the defendants could not be disputed. But it does not follow that the right of Harmening,
in his lifetime, or of his heirs since his death, to hold these lands,
as against the plaintiff, cannot be questioned in a court of
general equitable jurisdiction upon the ground of fraud. If
the case made by the bill is clearly established by proof, it may
be assumed that some state court, of superior jurisdiction and
equity powers, and having before it all the parties interested,
might afford the plaintiff relief of a substantial character.
But whether that be so or not, it is difficult to perceive why
the Circuit Court is not bound to give relief according to the
recognized rules of equity, as administered in the courts of the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

196 U. S.

United. States, the plaintiff being a citizen of Nevada, the defendants citizens of Ohio, and the value of the matter in dispute, exclusive of interest and costs, being in excess of the
amount required for the original jurisdiction of such courts."
"While there are general expressions in some cases apparently
asserting a contrary doctrine, the later decisions of this court
show that the proper Circuit Court of the United States may,
without controlling, supervising, or annulling the proceedings
of state courts, give such relief, in a case like the one before us,
as is consistent with the principles of equity"
After citing the case of Johnson v Waters, above, the court
referred to Rezgal v Wood, 1 Johns Ch. 402, 406, in which
Chancellor Kent said. "Relief is to be obtained not only against
writings, deeds, and the most solemn assurances, but against
judgments and decrees, if obtained by fraud and imposition."
It also referred to Bowen v Evans, 2 H. L. Cas. 257, 281, in
which Lord Chancellor Cottenham said. "If a case of fraud be
established, equity will set aside all transactions founded upon
it, by whatever machinery they may have been effected, and
notwithstanding any contrivances by which it may have been
attempted to protect them. It is immaterial, therefore,
whether such machinery and contrivances consisted of a decree
of a court of equity, and a purchase under it, or of a judgment
at law, or of other transactions between the actors in the
fraud." The opinion of this court concluded. "These principles control the present case, which, although involving rights
arising under judicial proceedings in another jurisdiction, is
an original, independent suit for equitable relief between the
parties, such relief being grounded upon a new state of facts,
disclosing not.only imposition upon a court of justice in procuring from it authority to sell an infant's lands when there
was no necessity therefor, but actual fraud in the exercise,
from time to time, of the authority so obtained. As this case
is within the equity jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, as defined by the Constitution and laws of the United States, that
court may, by its decree, lay hold of the parties and compe

XcDANIEL v. TRAYLOR.
196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

them to do what, according to the principles of equity, they
ought to do, thereby securing and establishing the rights of
which the plaintiff is alleged to have been deprived by fraud
and collusion."
In Marshall v Holmes, 141 U S. 589, 595, 596, it appeared
that twenty-three judgments for different amounts were
fraudulently procured to be rendered in a state court against
a citizen of another State. Upon learning of the judgments
the latter brought suit in one of the courts of Louisiana for a
decree avoiding them as obtained upon false testimony, and
thereafter filed a petition and bond for the removal of the case
to the Circuit Court of the United States. The right of removal was denied, and the court dissolved the prelimmary
injunction which had been granted, and authorized Mayer,
who had become the owner of the judgments, to proceed in
their collection. Upon appeal to a higher state court, the
original judgment was affirmed, and that judgment was
brought here for review by writ of error. This court sustained the right of removal. After stating that the judgments
aggregated more than three thousand dollars and were all held
by Mayer and against the plaintiff, we said. "Their validity
depends upon the same facts. If she is entitled to relief
against one of the judgments, she is entitled to relief against
all of them. The cases in which they were rendered were, in
effect, tried as one case, so far as she and Mayer were concerned, for the parties stipulated that the result in each one
not tried should depend upon the result in the one tried. As
all the cases not tried went to judgment in accordance with the
result in the one tried, as the property of Mrs. Marshall [the
plaintiff] was liable to be taken in execution on all the judgments; as the judgments were held in the same right, and as
their validity depended upon the same facts, she was entitled,
m order to avoid a multiplicity of actions, and to protect herself against the vexation and cost that would come from
numerous executions and levies, to bring one suit for a decree
finally determining the matter in dispute in all the cases.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

And as, under the rules of equity obtaining in the courts of
the United States, such a suit could be brought, the aggregate
amount of all the judgments against which she sought protection, upon grounds common to all the actions, is to be
deemed, under the act of Congress, the value of the matter
here in dispute."
The question of jurisdiction here presented arises out of
facts not to be found in any case brought to our attention or
of which we have knowledge.
The suit is to remove a cloud on the title to certain lands of
the value of $16,000. The plaintiffs, being three of the six
heirs at law of the intestate, jointly own an undivided interest
of one-half of those lands, but no interest in any particular
part of them. If the value of their joint undivided interest,
$8,000, or the value of the undivided interest of each (onethird of $8,000), is to be taken as the value of the matter in
dispute, then the Circuit Court had jurisdiction. But we are
of opinion that within the meaning of the judiciary act of
1887, 1888, the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, in this case,
depended upon the value in dispute measured by the aggregate amount of the claims of the defendants.
It is contended that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
must fail, because no one defendant has a claim of the required
jurisdictional amount. In support of this contention several
cases are cited of the class to which Waller v Northeastern
Railroad Co., 147 U S. 370, 372, 373, belongs. That was a
suit by a railroad company against the treasurers and sheriffs
of several counties through which its road passed, to enjoin
them-separately, of course--from issuing executions against
or seizing the property of the company for the purpose of
collecting a tax based upon an assessment alleged to be unconstitutional and void. The court said. "It is entirely clear
that, had these taxes been paid under protest and the plaintiff
had sought to recover them back, it would have been obliged
to bring separate actions in each county As the amount
recoverable from each county would be different, no joint

McDANIEL v. TRAYLOR.
96 U.'S.

Opinion of the Court.

judgment could possibly be rendered. So, had a bill for injunction been filed in a state court, and the practice had
permitted, as in some States, a chancery subpoena to be served
in any county of the State, these defendants could not have
been joined in one bill, but a separate bill would have had to
It is well settled in this
be filed in each county
having several inmore
plaintiffs,
two
or
court that when
terests, unite for the convenience of litigation in a single suit
it can only be sustained in the court of original jurisdiction,
or on an appeal in this court, as to those whose claims exceed
the jurisdictional amount; and that when two or more defendants are sued by the same plaintiff in one suit, the test of
jurisdiction is the joint or several character of the liability
to the plaintiff."
The case before us, however, is presented by the bill in an
entirely different aspect. The case may be regarded as exceptional in its facts, and may be disposed of without affecting
former decisions. There is no dispute as to the amount of any
particular claim. So far as the bill is concerned, if any one of
the specified claims is good against the estate of Hiram Evans,
then all are good, if the lands in question, or any interest in
them, can be sold to pay one claim, they must be sold to pay
all. The court could not, under the bill, enjoin the prosecution of one claun and leave the others untouched. The matter
in dispute is whether the lands in which the plaintiffs have a
joint undivided interest of one-half can be sold to pay all the
claims, sn the aggregate, which the defendants, by combsnaton
and conspiracy, procured the Probate Court to allow against
the estate of Hiram Evans. The essence of the suit is the
alleged fraudulent combination and conspiracy to fasten upon
that estate a liability for debts of John Evans, which were held
by the defendants and which they, acting in combination,
procured, in co6peration with James Evans, to be allowed as
claims against the estate of Hiram Evans. By reason of that
combination, resulting in the allowance of all those claims in
the Probate Court, as expenses of admininstering the estate of

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. z,

Hiram Evans, the defendants have so tied their respective
claims together as to make them, so far as the plaintiffs and
the relief sought by them are concerned, one claim. The validity of all the claims depends upon the same facts. The lien
on the lands which is asserted by each defendant has its origin as
well in the combination to which all were parties as in the
orders of the Probate Court which, in furtherance of that
combination, were procured by their joint action. Those
orders were conclusive against the plaintiffs, as to all the
claims, if the claims could be allowed at a11 against the estate
of Hiram Evans. A comprehensive decree by which the
plaintiff can be protected against those orders will avoid a
multiplicity of suits, save great expense and do justice. If
the plaintiffs do not prove such a combination and conspiracy,
in respect, at least, of so many of the specified claims as in the
aggregate will be of the required amount, then their suit must
fail for want of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court; for, in the
absence of the alleged combination, the claim of each defendant must, according to our decisions, be regarded, for purposes
of jurisdiction, as separate from all the others.
An instructive case on the general subject is Shields v
Thomas, 17 How 3. That was a suit in equity in a Kentucky
state court in which the plaintiffs, as the legal representatives
of an intestate, sought a decree for certain proportionate
amounts alleged to be due them respectively from the defendant, who had married the widow and thereby obtained possession of the property of the deceased. The defendant was
charged with having converted to his own use a large amount
of the intestate's property to which the legal representatives
of the intestate, plaintiffs in the suit, were entitled. In that
suit a decree was rendered against the defendant for a large
sum of money, "the shares of the respective complainants
being apportioned to them in the decree," and the defendant
being required by the decree to pay to each of the plaintiffs
the specific sum to which he was entitled as his portion of the
property misappropriated by him. Subsequently a suit was

McDANIEL v. TRAYLOR.
196 U. S.

Oplmon of the Court.

brought in a Circuit Court of the United States (jurisdiction
being based on diversity of citizenship), to enforce the decree
rendered in the Kentucky state court, and to compel the defendant to pay to the plaintiffs, respectively, the several sums
which had been decreed m their favor. A decree to that effect
was rendered. The whole amount which the defendant was
required by the decree to pay was large enough to give this
court jurisdiction on appeal, although the specific sum awarded
to each plaintiff was less than the jurisdictional sum. The
defendant appealed to this court, and a motion was made to
dismiss the appeal on the ground "that the sum due to each
complainant is severally and specifically decreed to him, and
that the amount thus decreed, is the sum in controversy between each representative and the appellant, and not the
whole amount for which he has been held liable."
After observing that if that view of the matter in controversy was correct, this court was without jurisdiction, Chief
Justice Taney, speaking for the court, said. "But the court
think the matter in controversy, in the Kentucky court, was
the sum due to the representatives of the deceased collectively,
and not the particular sum to which each was entitled, when
the amount due was distributed among them, according to the
laws of the State. They all claimed under one and the same
title. They had a common and undivided interest in the
claim, and it was perfectly immaterial to the appellant how
it was to be shared among them. He had no controversy with
either of them on that point; and if there was any difficulty as
to the proportions in which they were to share, the dispute
was among themselves, and not with him.
"It is like a contract with several to pay a sum of money
It may be that the money, when recovered, is to be divided
between them in equal or unequal proportions. Yet if a controversy arises on the contract, and the sum in dispute upon
it, exceeds two thousand dollars, an appeal would clearly lie
to this court, although the interest of each individual was
less than that sum.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

"This being the controversy in Kentucky, the decree of that
court, apportioning the sum recovered among the several
representatives, does not alter its character when renewed in
Iowa. So far as the appellant is concerned, the entire sum
found due by the Kentucky court is in dispute. He disputes
the validity of that decree, and denies his obligation to pay any
part of the money And if the appellees maintain their bill,
he will be made liable to pay the whole amount decreed to
them. This is the controversy on his part; and the amount
exceeds two thousand dollars. We think the court, therefore,
has jurisdiction on the appeal."
The doctrines of Shwelds v Thomas have been frequently
recognized by this court. In the recent case of Overby v
Gordon, 177 U S. 214, 218, the court, interpreting the decision
in that case, said. "It was held that where the representatives
of a deceased intestate recover a judgment against an admmistrator for an amount in excess of the sum necessary to
confer jurisdiction to review, and such recovery was had under
the same title and for a common undivided interest, this court
had jurisdiction, although the amount decreed to be distributed
to each representative was less than the jurisdictional sum."
See also The Connemara, 103 U S. 754, Handley v Stutz, 137
U S. 366, New Orleans Pacific Ry. v Parker,143 U. S. 42, 51,
Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v Gentry, 163 U S. 353, 361, Dams
v Schwartz, 155 U. S. 631, 647
It is said that as to any single one of the claims in question
the plaintiffs in the present case could have released the lands
in which they had an undivided interest, by paying that particular claim, therefore, it is argued, the value of the matter in
dispute, as between the plaintiffs and such defendant, was the
amount of the latter's claim. And so as to each separate
claim. But that same thing could have been said as to the
respective claims involved in Shelds v Thomas. The defendant there could have paid off any of the respective claims
involved. This court, however, held that fact to be immaterial because the defendant disputed the validity of the

McDANIEL v. TRAYIOR.
196 U. S.

Opunon of the Court.

original decree holding him liable for all .the claims, and had
no concern as to how the whole amount decreed against him
was to be distributed. So here, the plaintiffs suing to protect
their common undivided interest in lands put m peril by
fraudulent orders obtained by the defendants acting in combination to obtain such orders for their benefit, are only concerned in preventing the defendants from proceeding under the
orders of the Probate Court, which they procured for their
benefit equally, and under which they all now equally claim.
The plaintiffs made no contest as to particular claims. They
dispute all of them as claims against Hiram Evans' estate.
If the orders of the Probate Court stand for thebenefit of the
respective defendants, then the plaintiffs' interests in the
lands are liable for all the claims asserted by the defendants;
for there is no dispute here as to the amount of any particular
claim. Hence, as we have said, the value of the matter m
dispute is the aggregate amount of the claims fraudulently
procured by the defendants acting in combination to be
allowed in the Probate Court as claims against the estate of
Hiram Evans.
For the reasons stated we hold. 1. That it was competent
for the Circuit Court upon the case made by the bill to deprive
the defendants, acting in combination and claiming the benefit
of the orders made in the Probate Court allowing their respective claims. 2. That the value of the matter in dispute
in the Circuit Court was the aggregate amount of all the
claims so allowed against the estate of Hiram Evans.
The decree is reversed with directions to set aside the order
dismissing the suit for want of jurisdiction, to overrule the
demurrer, and for further proceedings as may be consistent
with this opinion and with the law.
Reversed.

