MISSOURI v. 'NEBRASKA.
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

MISSOURI v. NEBRASKA.
NEBRASKA v. MISSOURI.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.
No. B, Orignal. Submitted November 28, 1904.-Decided December 19,1904.

Accretion is the gradual accumulation by alluvial formation and where a
boundary river changes its course gradually the parties on either side
hold by the same boundary-the center of the channel. Avulsion is the
sudden and rapid change in the course and channel of a boundary river.
It does not work any change in the boundary, which remains as it was
in the center of the old channel although no water may be flowing
therein. These principles apply alike whether the rivers be boundaries
between private property or between States and Nations.
The boundary line between Missoun and Nebraska in the vicinity of Island
Precinct is the center line of the original channel of the Missouri River
as it was before the avu]sion of 1867 and not the center line of the channel
since that time, although no water is now flowing through the original
channel.
Nothing in the acts of 1820 and 1836 relating to Missouri or the act admitting Nebraska into the Union indicates an intent on the part of Congress to alter the recognized rules of law fixing the rights of parties where
a river changes its course by accretion or by avulsion.

Tmis is a case of disputed boundary between two States
of the Umon.
The suit was commenced by an original bill filed in this
court by the State of Missouri against the State of Nebraska.
The relief sought by the former State is a decree declaring its
right of possession of, and its jurisdiction and sovereignty over,
certain territory east and north of the center of the main channel of the Missouri River as it runs between the two States at
the present time, that Missouri be quieted in its title thereto),
and that the State of Nebraska be forever enjoined and restrained from disturbing Missouri in the full enjoyment and
possession of said territory
The State of Nebraska, after answering, filed a cross bill

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

asking a decree confirming the possession, jurisdiction and
sovereignty of Nebraska over said territory; that the boundary
line between that part of Missouri known as Atchison County
and that part of Nebraska known as Nemaha County, be ascertained and established, and permanent monuments erected
to indicate the location of such line, and that the State of
Missouri be enjoined and restrained from disturbing the State
of Nebraska in the full enjoyment and possession of said
territory
The commissioners heretofore appointed to take the evidence
have filed their report, and it is agreed that their finding of
facts is correct. The case is before us upon questions of law
arising out of the pleadings, the report of the commissioners,
and the stipulation of the parties.
By an act of Congress of March 6, 1820, provision was made
for the admission of Missouri into the Union with the following
boundary" "Beginning in the middle of the Mississippi River,
on the parallel of thirty-six degrees north latitude, thence west,
along that parallel of latitude, to the St. Francois River;
thence up, and following the course of that river, in the middle
of the main channel thereof, to the parallel of latitude thirtysix degrees and thirty minutes; thence west along the same, to
a point where the said parallel is intersected by a meridian
line passing through the middle of the mouth of the Kansas
River, where the same empties into the Missouri River, thence,
from the point aforesaid north, along the said meridian line,
to the intersection of the parallel of latitude which passes
through the rapids of the river Des Moines, making the said
line to correspond with the Indian boundary line, thence east,
from the point of intersection last aforesaid, along the said
parallel of latitude, to the middle of the channel of the main
fork of the said river Des Moines; thence down and along the
middle of the main channel of the said river Des Moines, to
the mouth of the same, where it empties into the Mississippi
River; thence, due east, to the middle of the main channel of
the Mississippi River; thence down, and following the course

MISSOURI v. NEBRASKA.
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

of the Mississippi River, in the middle of the main channel
thereof, to the place of beginning- Provided, That said State
shall ratify the boundaries aforesaid. (a) And provided also,
That the said State shall have concurrent jurisdiction on the
river Mississippi, and every other river bordering on the said
State, so far as the said rivers shall form a common boundary
to the said State, and any other State or States, now or hereafter to be formed and bounded by the same, such rivers to be
common to both, and that the river Mississippi, and the navigable rivers and waters leading to the same, shall be common
highways, and forever free, as well to the inhabitants of the
said- State as to other citizens of the United States, without
any tax, duty, impost, or toll, therefor, imposed by the said
State." 3 Stat. 545.
On January 15, 1831, the State of Missouri, speaking by its
Legislature, memorialized Congress to make more certain and
definite its northwest boundary That memorial, among other
things, stated. "When this State government was formed,
the whole country on the west and north was one continued
wilderness, inhabited by none but savages, and but little
known to the people or to the Government of the United
States. Its geography was unwritten, and none of our citizens possessed an accurate knowledge of its localities, except
a few adventurous hunters and Indian traders. The western
boundary of the State as indicated by the act of Congress of
the sixth of March, eighteen hundred and twenty, and-adopted
by the Constitution of Missouri, is a 'meridian line passing
through the middle of the mouth of the Kansas River, where
the same empties into the Missouri River,' and extends from
the parallel of latitude of 36 degrees and thirty minutes north,
'to the mtersection of the parallel of latitude which passes
through the rapids of the river Des Momes.' The part of this
line which lies north o the Missouri River has never been surveyed and established, and consequently its precise position
and extent are unknown. It is believed, however, that it
extends about one hundred miles north from the Missouri

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

River, and almost parallel with the course of the stream, so
as to leave between the line and the river a narrow strip of land,
varying in breadth from fifteen to thirty miles. This small
strip of land was acquired by the United States from the
Kansas Indians, by the treaty of the third of June, eighteen
hundred and twenty-five, and is now unappropriated and at
These
the free disposal of the General Government.
considerations seem to us sufficiently obvious to impress upon
the public mind the necessity of interposing, whenever it is
possible, some visible boundary and natural barrier between
the Indians and the whites. The Missouri River, bending as
it does, beyond our northern line, will afford the barrier against
all the Indians on the southwest side of that river, by extending the north boundary of this State in a straight line
westward, until it strikes the Missourb, so as to include within
this State the small district of country between that line and the
river, which we suppose is not more than sufficient to make
In every
two, or at most three, respectable counties.
view, then, we consider it expedient that the district of country
in question should be annexed to and incorporated with the
State of Missouri, and to that end we respectfully ask the
With these views of the present
consent of Congress.
condition and future importance of that little section of country, and seeing the impossibility of conveniently attaching it
now or hereafter to any other State, your memorialists consider it highly desirable, and indeed necessary, that it should
be annexed to and form a part of the State of Missouri. And
to the accomplishment of that desirable end we respectfully
request the assent of Congress."
A subsequent act, entitled "An act to extend the western
boundary of the State of Missouri to the Missouri River,"
approved June 7, 1836, provided. "That when the Indian title
to all the lands lying between the State of Missouri and the Missouri River shall be extinguished, the jurisdiction over said
lands shall be hereby ceded to the State of Missouri, and the
western boundary of said State shall be then extended to the

MISSOURI r NEBRASKA.
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Missouri River, reserving to the United States the original right
of soil in said lands, and of disposing of the same: Provded,
That this act shall not take effect until the President shall
by proclamation, declare that the Indian title to said lands
has been extinguished, nor shall it take effect until the State
of Missouri shall have assented to the provisions of this act."
5 Stat. 34.
It is alleged in the bill that Congress intended by the act
of 1836 to meet the wishes of Missouri as expressed in its
memorial, that after the passage of that act the President,
by proclamation, declared that the Indian title to the lands
covered by that act had been extinguished, and that Missouri
duly assented to its provisions.
By an act of Congress approved February 9, 1867, Nebraska
was admitted into the Union, with the following boundary"Commencing at a point formed by the intersection of the
western boundary of the State of Missouri with the fortieth
degree north latitude, extending thence due west along said
fortieth degree north latitude to a point formed by its intersection with the twenty-fifth degree of longitude west from
Washington, thence north along said twenty-fifth degree of
longitude to a point formed by its intersection with the fortyfirst degree of north latitude, thence west along said forty-first
degree of north latitude to a point formed by its intersection
with the twenty-seventh degree of longitude west from Washington, thence north along said twenty-seventh degree of west
longitude to a point formed by its intersection with the fortythird degree north latitude, thence east along said forty-third
degree of north latitude to the Reya Paha River; thence down
the middle of the channel of said river, with its meanderings,
to its junction with the Niobrara River; thence down the
middle of the channel of said Niobrara River, and following
the meanderings thereof, to its junction with the Missouri
River; thence down the middle of the channel of said Missouri
River, and following the meanderings thereof, to the place of
beginning." 14 Stat. 391, 13 Stat. 47

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for State of Missouri.

196 U. S.

Mr Edward C Crow, Attorney General of the State of
Missouri, and Mr Sam B Jefferes, for the State of Missouri.
The only question here involved-that the central channel
of Missouri River wherever it may at any time run is the
boundary line between Missolirl and Nebraska-is one of law
The contention of Missouri is that the central thread of the
middle channel of the Missouri River is the dividing line between the States in question, and that this central thread
constitutes at all times the proper line of division regardless
of where it may run or be located.
The act of Congress, annexing Platte's Purchase to the
jurisdiction of Missouri, construed in a practical way and m
conformity with the legislative memorial of Missouri, approved June 15, 1831, unquestionably fixes the Missouri River
as the boundary and brands it as the perpetual and natural
monument without further description or further evidence.
There can be no question but that the Missouri River was
designated as a natural monument by both the act of annexation and the memorial requesting the same. Being a natural
monument, it must stand as ordained, for natural monuments
are objects permanent in character, if they are found upon
land as they were placed by nature, such as streams, lakes
and ponds. 3 Washburn's Real Property, 5th ed., 435, Tiedeman on Real Property, 2d ed., ยง 831.
Where a river is made the boundary between jurisdictions,
the middle of the river is considered the point or line of demarkation, or, in other words, the term "river" when used to
designate a boundary between two jurisdictions, means, m
law, the middle of the river. Stanford v Mantn, 30 Georgia,
355, Hicks v Coleman, 85 Am. Dec. 103, Lowell v Robinson,
33 Am. Dec. 673, Hardinv Jordan, 140 U S. 380.
It is not the meander line formed by what may be termed
the water's margin, but the waters themselves which constitute
the real boundary Railroad Co. v Schurmer, 7 Wall. 272,
Jeffires v East OmahaLand Co., 134 U S. 178, Houck v Yates,
82 Illinois, 179; Fuller v Dauphin, 124 Illinois, 542; St. Louis

MISSOURI v NEBRASKA.
196 U. S.

Argument for State of M1issour.

Brutge Co. v People ex rel., 125 Illinois, 228, Butterworthv St.
Louss Brndge Co., 123 Illinois, 535.
It has been said that a river is composed of the bed, banks
and stream. Eastman v Water Company, 43 Minnesota, 60.
This, however, is not an exact statement of the true meaning
of the term. A more apt way of putting it is that a river is
composed of a stream of constantly and continuously flowing
water, through a natural drainage basin, with the bed and
banks as essential mcidents to it. It is not the bed and banks
which constitute the river, but the natural stream of water.
When observed from the standpoint of the reason upon which
the legislature of Missouri memorialized Congress to annex
Platte's Purchase to Missouri and the act of Congress annexing the same, no other conclusion can be reached but that it
was intended to make the stream the boundary line wherever
that stream might at any time run.
The channel is the passageway between the banks through
which the water of the stream flows. Benjamrn v Rsver Improvement Company, 42 Michigan, 628.
The term "natural channel" includes not only all channels through which in the existing conditions of the country
water naturally flows, but new channels through which it
might afterwards flow Larrabe v Cloverdale, 131 California,
96.
The rule is settled that meander lines are not intended as
boundaries, but that the body of the water will be regarded
as the true boundary Jeffrws v East Omaha Land Co., 134
U S. 178, Mitchell v Smith, 140 U S. 406, Hardin v Jordan,
140 U S. 371, Clute v Fisher, 65 Michigan, 48, Norwood v
Smith, 59 Wisconsin, 344. This notwithstanding that in certain instances if a boundary river leaves its old channel and
forms a new one, within the limits of either of the States which
border on it, the old channel will remain the boundary Indiana v Kentucky, 136 U S. 479, Missour v Kentucky, 11 Wall.
395, Nebraska v Iowa, 143 U S. 359, however, do not control
as different principles and facts are involved. In this case

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for State of Mhissouri.

196 U. S.

that territory known as Platte's Purchase, was annexed to
Missouri by reason of a memorial coming from its legislative
department in 1831, wherein certain important and substantial
reasons were set out why the Missouri River, north of the
mouth of the Kaw, should be fixed forever as an absolute
boundary of Missouri. Soon afterwards this territory was
annexed to the jurisdiction of the State. Congress had uindoubted authority to annex the territory in the manner herein
described. There can be no question but that it was the intention of the legislature of Missouri to make the request in
the manner herein presented, because it was so shown clearly
from the resolution.
As the annexation statute construed in the light of the
memorial, shows the plain intention of Congress was to make
the Missouri River wherever it might run the absolute boundary of the State, it matters not whether those conditions still
exist which were considered in the memorial, and which authorized, warranted and induced Congress to so ordain. The
conditions which moved Congress to enact the statute may
have passed away That, however, does not deprive the State
of Missouri of the right to demand a strict compliance with
the original grant as it was intended when made.
Missouri was admitted into the Union in 1820, long prior
to the admission of Nebraska and during a time when all the
territory immediately west of the Missouri River belonged to
the Federal Government. At the time of its admission there
was no practical assurance that the territory now known as
Nebraska would ever be admitted into the Tnion. It belonged to the Federal Government to be disposed of at will,
to be held as a territory or afterwards subdivided and admitted into the Union as a State.
By accepting the terms of the memorial annexing Platte's
Purchase to the State of Missouri, the Federal Government
made an absolute guarantee to the people of Missouri that the
stream of water flowing from the Rockies, known as the
Missouri River, should forever be its absolute boundary line.

MISSOURI
196 U. S.

U. NEBRASKA.

Argument for State of Mlissouri.

Construed in the light of the memorial and according to
the plain words of the statute of annexation, Missouri now
claims that fixed and vested rights were obtained thereunder,
and that she is entitled to complete jurisdiction and sovereignty
over all the territory lying east of the Missouri River as hereinbefore stated, and that it was more important at the time of
the annexation that this river be made the absolute boundary
for all time to come than to afterward have such boundary
changed by reason of sudden variation in the channel of the
river. Indeed, had the fact in question been raised long prior
to the admission of Nebraska into the Union, and after the
annexation statute had been approved, no one would have
questioned the right of Missouri to claim and obtain absolute
sovereignty over the territory here involved. This principle
is made manifest by reason of the terms of the statute construed in the light of the memorial and it fixes a vested privilege and right in the State of Missouri regardless of what might
afterwards have been done by the Federal Congress without
the consent of this complainant.
The rights and duties with respect to waters depends primarily upon the relations which the opposing parties bear
towards each other. Farnham on Waters and Water Rights, 3.
In this controversy, there is no agreement or contractual
relations existing between the State of Nebraska and the State
of Missouri, so far as the boundary line between the two States
is concerned. Both States derive their power and rights in
the premises from the Federal Government and Missouri, prior
to the admission of Nebraska, being granted and delegated
with sovereignty and power over the territory known as Platte's
Purchase, and the Missouri River being at the time-fixed as
the absolute boundary line, is asking that the terms of the
grant annexing the northwestern territory to it be strictly
carried out. Congress unquestionably had authority to fix
the Missouri River as it then and as it might subsequently run
as the western boundary When Nebraska was admitted into
the Union, it came with both actual and constructive notice

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for State of Nebraska.

196 U. S.

that its jurisdiction could never extend to the east of the
Missouri River south of the boundary line between Iowa and
Missouri.
Mr Frank N Prout, Attorney General of the State of
Nebraska, and Mr W H. Kelligar, for the State of Nebraska.
Where the course of a river forming the boundary between
States is suddenly changed by avulsion, the boundary remains
unchanged. The findings of the commissioners and the edence adduced before them show that the Missouri River between Missouri and Nebraska changed its course m a single
day-July 5, 1867-and left a large area of Nebraska land on
the east side. This fact and the correctness of the findings of
the commissioners are also established by stipulations of the
parties.
The change having taken place in a single day, it is perfectly clear that no law applicable to accretion could have
operated to transfer the territory in controversy from Nebraska to Missouri. The jurisdiction of those States and the
status of the citizens do not fluctuate with every freak of the
Missouri River. If they did, a large portion of the Nebraska
population might go to bed at night in Nebraska and get up
in the morning on the same spot in Missouri.
The rule applicable to the facts presented by the record
has been stated by this court, that where a stream, which is
a boundary, from any cause suddenly abandons its old and
seeks a new bed, such change of channel works no change of
boundary, and that the boundary remains as it was, m the
center of the old channel, although no water may be flowing
therein. Iowa v Nebraska, 143 U S. 361.
The boundary line between States does not change with a
change in the channel of a river which had been the boundary
Missoun v Kentucky, 11 Wall. 401, Holbrook v Moore, 4
Nebraska, 437, Collins v State, 3 Tex. Cr. App. 325, Willey v
Lewis, 28 Wkly. L. B. 104, Act of 1836, 5 Stat. 34.
The act of 1836, 5 Stat. 34, merely extends the boundary

MISSOURI v. NEBRASKA.
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the State of Missouri to the Missouri River upon extinguishment of the Indian title to the intervening land, and
does not purport to change the rule of law that where the
course of a river forming a boundary is suddenly changed by
avulsion, the boundary remains unchanged. The act furnishes no foundation for complainant's argument that the
shifting channel of the Missouri River, wherever it may be,
whether changed by accretion or avulsion, is the eternal
boundary line between Missouri and Nebraska. If the Missouri River should suddenly cut across the west end of Nebraska, complainant's theory would wipe Nebraska off the
map and leave Missouri in possession of a vast empire acquired without regard to the rights of the inhabitants. No
such conclusion is deducible from the enactment quoted.
But the argument of complainant seems to be that the act
of Congress derived some additional significance from the
legislative memorial of Missouri, in pursuance of which the
statute was enacted. The memorial amounts to nothing more
than an argument in favor of the passage of the act. The
intention of Congress is clearly expressed in the enactment
and there is no occasion to resort to the memorial, either to
ascertain the legislative will or to give effect to the statute.
Had Nebraska never been admitted into the Union, the
State of Missouri would not now have jurisdiction of a crime
committed on the land in dispute known as Island Precinct.
It is a rule of the courts, both state and Federal, that where
the course of a river forming the boundary between States is
suddenly changed by avulsion, the boundary remains unchanged.

MR. JUSTiCE HARLAN, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
'It is undisputed in the case that prwr to July 5, 1867, the
bed and channel of the Missouri River were substantially as
they had been continuously from the date of the admission of
voL. oxcvi-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

196 U. S.

the respective States into the Union, only such variations oc-

curring during that entire period as naturally followed in the
course of time from one side of the river to the other. But on
the day just named, July 5, 1867 (which was after the admission of Nebraska into the Union), within twenty-four hours
and during a time of very high water, the river, which had for
years passed around what is called McKissick's Island, cut a
new channel across and through the narrow neck of land at the
west end of Island Precinct (of which McKissick's Island
formed a part), about a half mile wide, making for itself a new
channel and passing through what was admittedly, at that
time, territory of Nebraska. After that change the river
ceased to run around McKissick's Island. In the course of a
few years, after the new channel was thus made, the old channel dried up and became tillable land, valuable for agricultural
purposes, whereby the old bed of the river was vacated about
fifteen miles in length. This change in the bed or channel of
the river became fixed and permanent, for, at the commencement of this suit it was the same as it was immediately after
the change that occurred on the fifth day of July, 1867 The
result was that the land between the channel of the river as
it was prior to July 5, 1867, and the channel as it was after
that date and is now, was thrown on the east side of the
Missouri River; whereas, prior to that date it had been on the
west side.
The fundamental question in the case is, whether the sudden
and permanent change in the course and channel of the river
occurring on the fifth day of July, 1867, worked a change in
the boundary line between the two States.
The former decisions of this court relating to boundary lines
between States seem to make this case easy of solution.
In New Orleans v United States, 10 Pet. 662, 717, argued
elaborately by eminent lawyers, Mr. Webster among the number, this court said. "The question is well settled at common
law, that the person whose land is bounded by a stream of
water, which changes its course gradually by alluvial forma-

MISSOURI v. NEBRASKA.
196 U. S.

Opunon of the Court.

tions, shall still hold by the same boundary, including the
accumulated soil. No other rule can be applied on just principles. Every proprietor whose land is thus bounded is subject
to loss, by the same means which may add to his territory;
and as he is without remedy for his loss, in this way, he cannot be held accountable for his gain." It was added-what
is pertinent to the present case-that "this rule is no less just
when applied to public, than to private rights." The subject
was under consideration in Missouri v Kentucky, 11 Wall. 395,
and Indiana v Kentucky, 136 U S. 479. But it again came
under consideration in Nebraska v Iowa, 143 U S. 359, 361,
367, 370. In the latter case, the court, after referring to the
rule announced in New Orleans v United States, and citing
prior cases in which that rule had been recognized, said. "It
is equally well settled, that where a stream, which is a boundary, from any cause suddenly abandons-its old and seeks a new
bed, such change of channel works no change of boundary;
and that the boundary remains as it was, in the center of the
old channel, although no water may be flowing therein. This
sudden and rapid change of channel is termed, in the law,
avulsion. In Gould on Waters, sec. 159, it is said. 'But if the
change is violent and visible, and arises from a known cause,
such as a freshet, or a cut through which a new channel is
formed, the original thread of the stream continues to mark
the limits of the two estates.' 2 Bl. Com. 262; Angell on
Water Courses, ยง 60; Trustees of Hopkins' Academy v Dwkmson, 9 Cush. 544, Buttenuth v St. Louts Bridge Co., 123 Illinois,
535, Hagan v Campbell, 8 Porter (Ala.), 9; Murry v Sermon,
1 Hawks (N. C.), 56.
"These propositions, which are universally recognized as
correct where the boundaries of private property touch on
streams, are in like manner recognized where the boundaries
between States or nations are, by prescription or treaty, found
in running water. Accretion, no matter to which side it adds
ground, leaves the boundary still the center of the channel.
Avulsion has no effect on boundary, but leaves it u the center

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

196 U. S.

of the old channel." Again, in the same case, the court, referring to the very full examination of the authorities to be
found m one of the opinions of Attorney General Cushing
(8 Op. Atty Gen'l, 175), said. "The result of these authorities
puts it beyond doubt that accretion on an ordinary river would
leave the boundary between two States the varying center of
the channel, and that avulsion would establish a fixed boundary, to wit, the center of the abandoned channel. It is contended, however, that the doctrine of accretion has no application to the Missouri River, on account of the rapid and great
changes constantly going on in respect to its banks; but the
contrary has already been decided by this court in Jeffries v
Land Company, 134 U S. 178, 189." In Nebraska v Iowa, it
appeared that the Missouri River near the land there in dispute had pursued a course in the nature of an ox-bow, but it
suddenly cut through the neck of the bow and made for itself
a new channel. The court said. "This does not come within
the law of accretion, but that of avulsion. By this selection
of a new channel the boundary was not changed, and it remained as it was prior to the avulsion, the center line of the
old channel, and that, unless the waters of the river returned
to their former bed, became a fixed and unvarying boundary,
no matter what might be the changes of the river in its new
channel."
Manifestly, these observations cover the present case and
make it clear that the boundary line between Missouri and
Nebraska in the vicinity of Island Precinct cannot be taken
to be the middle of the channel of the Missouri River, as it has
been since the avulsion of 1867 and now is, but must be taken
to be the middle of the channel of the river as it was prior to
such avulsion. We cannot see that there are any facts or
circumstances that withdraw the present case from the rule
established in former adjudications.
Counsel for Missouri contend that the act admitting Missouri
into the Union, the memorial sent by the Legislature of that
State to Congress in 1831, and the act of June 7, 1836, with the

MISSOURI v,. NEBRASKA.
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

proclamation of the President as to the extinguishment of
Indian titles to lands between Missouri, as originally bounded,
and the Missouri River, show that Congress intended that, so
far as the boundary of the State of Missouri was concerned,
the middle of the channel of the Missouri River, wherever it
may be at any particular time-and regardless of any changes,
however caused or however extended, or permanent, suddenly
occurring in its course or channel-was to be taken as a perpetual, natural monument fixing the boundary line. We cannot accept this view We perceive no reason to believe that
Congress intended, either by the acts of 1820 and 1836 relating to Missouri or the act admitting Nebraska into the Union,
to alter the recognized rules of law which fix the rights of parties where a river changes its course by gradual, insensible
accretions, or the rules that obtain in cases where, by what is
called avulsion, the course of a river is materially and permanently changed. Missouri does not dispute the fact that when
Nebraska was admitted into the Union the body of land described in the present record as Island Precinct was mNebraska.
It is equally clear that those lands did not cease to be within
the limits of Nebraska by reason of the avulsion of July 5,
1867
For the reason stated we adjudge, in respect of the matters
involved in this suit, that the middle of the channel of the
Missouri River, according to its course as it was prior to the
avulsion of July 5, 1867, is the true boundary line between
Missouri and Nebraska. Accordingly, the original bill must
be dismissed, and a decree entered in favor of the State of
Nebraska on its cross bill.
It appears from the record that about the year 1895 the
county surveyors of Nemaha County, Nebraska, and Atchison
County, Missouri, made surveys of the abandoned bed of the
Missouri River, in the locality here in question, ascertained the
location of the original banks of the river on either side, and
to some extent marked the middle of the old channel. If the
two States agree upon these surveys and locations as correctly

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
196 U. S.

Syllabus.

narkmg the original banks of the river and the middle of the
ol channel, the court will, by decree, give effect to that agreement, or, if either State desires a new survey the court will
order one to be made and cause monuments to be placed so
as to permanently mark the boundary line between the two
States. The disposition of the case by final decree is postponed for forty days, m order that the court may be advised
as to the wishes of the parties in respect of these details.

KEELY v. MOORE.
ERROR

TO

THE

COURT OF APPEALS

OF

THE

DISTRICT

OF

COLUMBIA.
No. 55. Argued November 9,1904.-Decided December 19,1904.
The signature of a resident of the District of Columbia to a will executed
abroad was witnessed on the day of execution by two witnesses; on the
day following an American vice consul signed, as such and under seal, a
certificate that the testator had appeared before him and acknowledged
'the will and his signature thereto. It did not state that the testator
signed in his presence. The law in the District of Columbia required three
witnesses in testator's presence, but did not require the testator to sign
in presence of witnesses. The will was attacked also on grounds of testator's insanity and undue influence on the testator who had, previous to the
execution of the will, been for a short time in an insane asylum. in an
action affecting title to real estate there were issues sent to a jury and
the title under the will sustained. Held, that:
Under the circumstances in this case the jury might properly draw the reference that the vice consul executed the certificates in the ordinary course
of business and in presence of the testator.
Although a notary taking an acknowledgment as required by law is not,
in the absence of separate signature as such to be regarded as a witness,
inasmuch as the certificate in this case was not required by law and was
unnecessary, it was, together with the description appended to the vice
consul's name, immaterial and could be disregarded as surplusage and the
vice consul's signature regarded as that of a witness m his unofficmil capacity.

