WORCESTER v. STREET RAILWAY CO.
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

CITY OF WORCESTER v. WORCESTER CONSOLIDATED
STREET RAILWAY COMPANY
SAME v. SAME.
SAME ET AL. v. SAME.
SAME ET AL. v. SAME.
SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL AND THE SUPERIOR COURTS
OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Nos. 144,145,146,141 and 148. Argued January 23, 24,19m.-Decded February 20, 105.
The city is the creature of the State. A municipal corporation is simply
a political subdivision of the State existing by virtue of the exercise of
the power of the State through its legislative department.
While a municipal corporation may own property not of a public or governmental nature which is entitled to constitutional protection, the obligation
of a railroad company to pave and repair streets occupied by it based on
accepted conditions of a municipal ordinance granting rights of location
is not private property beyond legislative control.
Chapter 578, Laws of Massachusetts of 1898, providing for taxation of
street railway companies is not void, as violating the impairment of
obligation clause of the Federal Constitution, so far as this case is concerned, because it relieved a railroad company from the obligation to
pave and repair streets under the terms and conditions of certain municipal ordinances which the company had duly accepted.

THESE five cases were brought here by writs of error, sued
out by the city of Worcester, for the purpose of reviewing the
several judgments of the Supreme and Superior Courts of the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts, respectively, affirming the
judgments of the trial courts in favor of the railroad company,
the defendant in error. The five cases involve the same questions and were brought for the purpose of answering any
possible objection to the particular mode adopted in any one
case for the purpose of obtaining the relief sought by the
plaintiff in error. 182 Massachusetts, 49. The first two cases
were petitions for writs of mandamus against the railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

company, which petitions were demurred to, and the demurrers sustained. Of the three other cases, two were suits in
equity, and were brought by the city against the railroad
company, and were heard upon the bills and demurrers thereto,
the court sustaining the demurrers; the fifth case was an action
on contract originally brought by the city against the railroad
company, in the Superior Court and heard upon demurrer to
the complaint, which was sustained and judgment ordered
for defendant from which judgment plaintiff appealed to the
Supreme Judicial Court of the Commonwealth.
The defendant in error is a street railroad corporation,
organized and doing business under the laws of the State of
Massachusetts, and it owned and operated in the city of
Worcester and m numerous outlying cities and towns a street
railway system, parts of which had previously belonged to
other similar corporations and had been acquired by the consolidated company in 1901, by the purchase of the franchises
and properties of such other companies under the general
provisions of the street railway laws of the Commonwealth.
Under the general laws of the Commonwealth, as they existed,
from 1891 to 1893, it was provided that a street railway company might apply to the board of aldermen of a city, or the
selectmen of a town, for the location of the tracks of the railway company in the streets of the city or town, and, after
hearing, it was provided that the board might grant the peti.tion "under such restrictions as they deem the interests of the
public may require, and the location thus granted shall be
deemed and taken to be the true location of the tracks of the
railway, if an acceptance thereof by said directors in writing
is filed with said mayor and aldermen or selectmen within
thirty days after receiving notice thereof." Section 7 of
chap. 113 of the Massachusetts Public Statutes.
The law also provided (section 21 of above act) that the
board of aldermen or the selectmen might, from time to time,
"under such restrictions as they deem .the interests of the
public may require, upon petition, authorize a street railway

WORCESTER v. STREET RAILWAY CO.
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

company whose charter has been duly accepted and whose
tracks have been located and constructed, or its lessees and
assigns, to extend the location of its tracks within their city
or town, without entering upon or using the tracks of another
street railway company; and such extended location shall be
deemed to be the true location of the tracks of the company,
if its acceptance thereof in writing is fied in the office of the
clerk of the city or town within thirty days after receiving
notice thereof."
Section 32 of the act made it the duty of every street railway company to keep m repair, to the satisfaction of the superintendent of streets, "the paving, upper planking or other
surface material of the portions of streets, roads and bridges
occupied by its tracks, and if such tracks occupy unpaved
streets or roads, (the company) shall, in addition, so keep m
repair eighteen inches on each side of the portion occupied
by its tracks," etc.
As the law then stood, the railroad company, on several
different occasions, between 1891 and 1893, made applications
for and was granted the privilege of extending the location
of its tracks. On the eleventh day of May, 1891, the defendant in error, upon application, was duly granted an extension
of its location for its tracks in certain streets in the city of
Worcester, which extension of location was stated in the order
or decree of the board of aldermen to be granted "upon the
following conditions;" eight different conditions then follow,
among which is:
"Second. That block paving shall be laid and 'maintained
between the rails of its track and for a distance of eighteen
inches outside of said rails for the entire distance covered by
this location.' "
This order or decree was duly accepted in writing by the
defendant in error, and its acceptance filed with the clerk of
the city of Worcester. Other extensions of locations were
applied for and granted during this time, some of which were.
upon the condition or restriction that the paving should be

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

between the rails and outside thereof to the street curb, and
these conditions were accepted and the acceptance duly filed
in the city clerk's office.
Subsequently and in 1898, (chap. 578 of the Massachusetts
Laws of that year), provision was made for a somewhat different system of taxation than that which prevailed at the time
these several extensions of locations were granted and accepted by the railroad company It was provided by section 11 of that act as follows:
"SE . 11. Street railway companies shall not be required
to keep any portion of the surface material of streets, roads
and bridges in repair, but they shall remain subject to all
legal obligations imposed in original grants of locations, and
may, as an incident to their corporate franchise, and without
being subject to the payment of any fee or other condition
precedent, open any street, road or bridge in which any part
of their railway is located, for the purpose of making repairs
or renewals of the railway, or any part thereof, the superintendent of streets or other officer exercising like authority,
or the board of aldermen or selectmen, in any city or town
where such are required, issuing the necessary permits therefor."
After the passage of this act of 1898 the railroad company
consented and conformed to its requirements, and thereafter
omitted to make the repairs in the streets which had been
required of it at the time when its extended locations were
granted during the period from 1891 to 1893. The city thereafter sought by these various actions or proceedings to compel
the street railway company to repair and maintain the surface
of the streets, as provided for by the law in force when the
extended locations were given and accepted. During the time
that the railroad company had since the passage of the act of
1898, omitted to make the repairs provided for as a condition
for the granting of its application for extended locations, the
city had incurred expenses in renewing and repairing various
portions of the pavements, because of the omission and refusal

WORCESTER v. STREET RAILWAY CO.
196 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

of the railroad company to do so, and one of these actions was
brought to recover the expenses thus incurred by the city in
making such repairs and renewing such pavement.
Mr Arthur P Rugg, with whom Mr John R. Thayer was
on the brief, for plaintiff in errorThe conditions contained in the grants of extensions were
legally imposed, the city and the railroad company were empowered to enter into ,contracts and the acceptance of the
location with the conditions constituted a contract and the
obligation to pave assumed by the contract is a property right
which cannot be taken from the city without due process of
law
As to what is a property right within the Fourteenth Amendment see Campbell v Holt, 115 U S. 620. Restrictions constitute valuable property rights. Soulard v United States,
4 Pet. 511, MetropolitanCity Ry. Co. v Chicago, 87 fllinois, 317
Under the Massachusetts laws the muicipality has certain
property rights with reference to highways and the repair
thereof. Rev Laws, c. 51, §§ 1, 17, 18, 23, Butman v Newton,
179 Massachusetts, 1, 6, Perry v Worcester, 6 Gray, 544,
Deane v Randolph, 132 Massachusetts, 475, Hill v Boston,
122 Massachusetts, 344, Prattv Weymouth, 147 Massachusetts,
245, 254, Brookfield v Reed, 152 Massachusetts, 568, Collins
v Greenfield, 172 Massachusetts, 78, 81, Tindley v Salem, 137
Massachusetts, 171. Under the laws of Massachusetts the
municipality has authority to arrange for the repair of streets.
Morrson v. Lawrence, 98 Massachusetts, 219; Sampson v
Boston, 161 Massachusetts, 288, Cavanagh v Boston, 139
Massachusetts, 426, Smith v Rochester, 76 N. Y 506, Anthony
v Adams, 1 Metc. 284.
This property right cannot be taken from the city by the
legislature. Legislative power over the municipality is very
extensive, but it is not universal and does not extend to property acquired for special purposes or to rights of immunity,
m which respect the city has the same rights as the individual

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

196 U. S.

to his private property Mt. Hope Cemetery v Boston, 158
Massachusetts, 509, and cases cited on p. 512, Commissioners
v Lucas, 93 U S. 108, Mt. Pleasant v Beckwith, 100 U S.
514, 533, Broughton v Pensacola, 93 U S. 266, New Orleans,
M. & T R. Co. v Ellerman, 105 U S. 166, 172, Richmond v
Telephone Co., 174 U S. 761, 777
These property interests and pecuniary rights of a muicipality as to a public way, when taken in conjunction with the
contract power of the municipality with reference to the repair
of streets, Brookfield v Reed, 152 Massachusetts, 568, places
the property rights of the city, in respect of highways, upon
the same basis as its property rights in sewer systems and
water works. Property rights of municipalities in sewers are
recognized in a multitude of cases. Johnston v District of
Columbia, 118 U S. 19, Maxmilian v Mayor, 62 N. Y 164,
Coan v Marlborough, 164 Massachusetts, 206, Child v Boston,
4 Allen, 41. As to water works see Hand v Brookline, 126
Massachusetts, 324, Johnson v Worcester, 172 Massachusetts,
122, Lynch v Spnngfield, 174 Massachusetts, 430; Esberg
Gunst Co. v Berlin, 55 Pac. Rep. 961, S. C., 34 Oregon, 282,
Walla Walla v Walla Walla Water Co., 172 U S. 1. As to
wharves, Mersey Docks Board v Gibbs, 11 H. L. Cases, 686,
Petersburg v Applegarth, 28 Gratt. 321, Pittsburgh v Grzer,
22 Pa. St. 54. As to gas works, Western Savings Fund Society
v Philadelphia,31 Pa. St. 183, San Francisco Gas Co. v San
Francisco, 9 California, 483, Muldleborough v N Y., N H. &
H. R. R. Co., 179 Massachusetts, 520.
The city of Worcester has a special proprietary right in the
property of the defendant in error reserved to it in the original
statute incorporating the railroad company, Chap. 148, Mass.
Laws of 1861, in regard to its right of purchase of the railroad
company's property This is property Richardson v Sibley,
11 Allen, 65, Cambridge v Railroad Co., 10 Allen, 50; Boston
& Albany R. R. Co. v Cambrdge, 159 Massachusetts, 283,
Water Supply Co. v Brantree, 146 Massachusetts, 482, Water
Co. v Rockport, 161 Massachusetts, 279.

WORCESTER v. STREET RAILWAY CO.
196 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

A municipal corporation is a "person" within the meaning
of that word as used in the Fourteenth Amendment.
The word "corporation" as used in certain statutes, ineludes a municipal corporation. Loeb v Columbsa Township,
179 U. S. 472, 486, Andes v Ely, 158 U S. 312, 1 Dillon on
Mun. Corp., 4th ed., §§ 18, 19, 20; Mass. P S., c. 3, § 3, ci. 16,
Mass. R. L., c. 8, § 5, cl. 16, Covington & L. Turnpike R. R. Co.
v Sandford, 164 U S. 578, 592, Pembna Consol. Mining Co.
v Pennsylvana, 125 U S. 181.
The act of the Massachusetts legislature should not be
construed to have abrogated the municipality's contract with
the railroad company and this court can so hold notwithstanding the construction placed on the act by the state court.
Where the validity of the state statute is attacked upon the
very ground that it was in conflict with the contract clause of
the Federal Constitution this court examines de novo the
meaning of the statute and places its own interpretation upon
it. McCullough v VirginIa, 172 U S. 102, 109; Yick Wo v
Hopksns, 118 U S. 356, Mobile & Ohw R. Co. v Tennessee,
153 U S. 486, Wilson v Standefer, 184 U. S. 399, and cases
cited on p. 411. The legislative history of the act shows that
it was not intended to abrogate the rights of the municipality
Mr Bentley W Warren for defendant in errorThe board of aldermen cf Worcester in imposing the socalled conditions, claimed by the city to amount to contracts,
contained in the orders of location acted, so far as it was intrusted with any power m relation to the location and construction of the defendant's railway, not in the capacity of
officers or representatives of the city of Worcester, but as
public officers under authority delegated to them by the legislature. The city of Worcester, as a municipal corporation,
had no power, whether acting by its board of aldermen, by
its city government, or otherwise, with respect to street railway locations within its limits. Municipal corporations in
Massachusetts possess only such powers and rights as are exVOL. OxCvi-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Defendant in Error,

196 U. S.

pressly or by implication granted by the State. Spaulding v
Peabody, 153 Massachusetts, 129, Opinion of Justices, 150
Massachusetts, 592, Swift v Falmouth, 167 Massachusetts,
115, Bangs v Snow, 1 Massachusetts, 180, 189.
Without express legislative authority a town cannot appropriate money for defense against an invading enemy, Stetson v Iempton, 13 Massachusetts, 272, 279, nor to build a
county highway, Parsonsv Goshen, 11 Pick. 396, nor to celebrate Cornwallis's surrender, Tash v Adams, 10 Cush. 252;
nor to purchase company uniforms, Claflin v Hopkznton, 4
Gray, 502, nor to celebrate the Fourth of July, Hood v Lynn,
1 Allen, 103, Gerry v Stoneham, 1 Allen, 319; Morrson v.
Lawrence, 98 Massachusetts, 219, nor to pay expenses incurred in promoting or opposing the annexation of one municipality to another. Minot v West Roxbury, 112 Massachusetts, 1, Coolidge v Brookline, 114 Massachusetts, 592.
The powers of a municipality are only such as they can be
clearly shown to possess. Minturn v Lane, 23 How 435,
Detroit v Citizens' Street Ry. Co., 184 U S. 368, 388. Every
reasonable doubt is against the power. This doctrine is vital
to the public welfare. Pearsallv Great Northern Railway Co.,
161 U S. 646, 664, FertilizingCo. v Hyde Park, 97 U S. 659,
666, Citzens' Street Ry. Co. v Detroit Ry. Co., 171 U S. 48, 54.
Assuming that the board of aldermen impose the conditions
in form and manner as they attempted to do, nevertheless they
represented said city in its corporate capacity as a mere governmental agency, and not in its private corporate capacity,
so that, if said city became the obligee in any contract to which
the railway company was obligor, the rights of said city
thereunder were held not as its private property, but in trust
as a governmental agency for the public in general, and were,
therefore, subject at all times to the control of the legislature.
Cities have almost no private property South Dakota v
North Carolina, 192 U S. 286, 2 Dillon Mun. Corp., 656, 683,
Brmmer v Boston, 102 Massachusetts, 19; Agawan v Hampden County, 130 Massachusetts, 528, and cases cited on p. 530;

WORCESTER v. STREET RAILWAY CO.
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

citing Freeland v Hastings, 10 Allen, 570, 579, Rawson v
Spencer, 113 Massachusetts, 40, 45, Stone v Charlestown, 114
Massachusetts, 214, 223, Coolidge v Brookline, 114 Massachusetts, 592, Hill v Boston, 122 Massachusetts, 344, 349, 355,
Laranw v Albany, 92 U S. 307, Tippecanoe Commissioners
v Lucas, 93 U S. 108, 114, New Orleans v Clark, 95 U S. 644,
654, Menwether v Garrett, 102 U S. 472, Prince v Crocker,
166 Massachusetts, 347, Browne v Turner, 176 Massachusetts, 9.
The burden of proof is strongly upon the party asserting
such private ownership by a municipality Proprietors of
Mt. Hope Cemetery v Boston, 158 Massachusetts, 509, as cited
and distinguished m Browne v Turner, 176 Massachusetts,
9, 13.
Whatever may have been the state of the law at the time
the extensions of location involved m these suits were granted,
the legislature, by enacting c. 578 of the acts of 1898, relieved
defendant from obligation to keep m repair any part of the
surface material of the streets included in any of said extended
locations.
Assuming the statute abrogated the obligations (if they
were such) set out m the five cases, the legislature of Massachusetts did not, in so abrogating the obligations, violate any
provisions of the Constitution of the Umted States. If such
obligations were property such property was not private municipal property and was subject to legislative control. East
Hartfordv Bridge Co., 10 How 511, Laramie County v Albany
County, 92 U S. 307, Meiwether v Garrett, 102 U S. 472,
Browne v Taylor, 176 Massachusetts, 9, and cases cited on
p. 14, People v Kerr, 27 N. Y 188, Clinton v Cedar Rapids
R. Co., 24 Iowa, 455.
MR. JUSTICE PIECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant in error makes no objection to the form in

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

which the question to be decided comes before us. Whether
one or the other action or proceeding is proper and appropriate
need not, therefore, be considered.
The contention on the part of the plaintiff m error is that,
by virtue of the restrictions or conditions placed by it upon
granting the various extensions of locations of the tracks of
the railroad company, and by the acceptance of the same by
the company, a contract was entered into between the city and
the railroad company, which could not be altered without the
consent of both parties, and that as the city had never consented to any alteration of the obligation of the railroad company to make the repairs in the streets as provided for in those
restrictions or conditions, the subsequent legislation contamed m the act of 1898 impaired the obligation of that contract, and was therefore void, as a violation of the Constitution
of the United States.
In the view we take of this subject it may be assumed, for
the purpose of argument, that the city of Worcester had power,
under the legislation of the State, to grant the right to extend
the location of the railroad company's tracks upon the restrictions or conditions already mentioned. It may also be assumed, but only for the purpose of the argument, that the
restrictions or conditions contained m the orders or decrees
of the board of aldermen, upon their acceptance by the company, became contracts between the city and the company
The question then arising is, whether the legislature, in the
exercise of its general legislative power, could abrogate the
provisions of the contract between the city and the railroad
company with the assent of the latter, and provide another
and a different method for the paving and repairing of the
streets through which the tracks of the railroad company were
laid under the permit of their extended location. We have no
doubt that the legislature of the Commonwealth had that
power. A municipal corporation is simply a political subdivision of the State, and exists by virtue of the exercise of the
power of the State through its legislative department. The

WORCESTER v. STREET RAILWAY CO
198 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

legislature could at any time terminate the existence of the
corporation itself, and provide other and different means for
the government of the district comprised within the limits of
the former city The city is the creature of the State., East
Hartford v Hartford Brdge Co., 10 How 511, 533, 534.
As is stated in United States v Railroad Company, 17 Wall.
322, 329, a mumcipal corporation is not only a part of the State
but is a portion of its governmental power. "It is one of its
creatures, made for a specific purpose, to exercise within a
limited sphere the powers of the State. The State may withdraw these local powers of government at pleasure, and may,
through its legislature or other appointed channels, govern the
local territory as it governs the State at large. It may enlarge
or contract its powers or destroy its existence. As a portion
of the State in the exercise of a limited portion of the powers
of the State, its revenues, like those of the State, are not subject to taxation."
In New Orleans v Clark, 95 U S. 644, 654, it was stated by
Mr. Justice Field, in delivering the opinion of the court, that:
"A city is only a political subdivision of the State, made for
the convenient administration of the government. It is an
instrumentality, with powers more or less enlarged, according
to the requirements of the public, and which may be increased
or repealed at the will of the legislature. In directing, therefore, a particular tax by such corporation, and the appropriation of the proceeds to some special municipal purpose, the
legislature only exercises a power through its subordinate
agent, which it could exercise directly; and it does this only in
another way when it directs such corporation to assume and
pay a particular claim not legally binding for want of some
formality in its creation, but for which the corporation has
received an equivalent."
In Commssioners of Laramie County v Commissioners of
Albany County et al., 92 U S. 307, it was held that public or
municipal corporations were but parts of the machinery employed in carrying on the affairs of the State, and that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

charters under which such corporations are created may be
changed, modified or repealed as the exigencies of the public
service or the public welfare may demand, that such corporations were composed of all the inhabitants of the territory
included in the' political organization, and the attribute of
individuality is conferred on the entire mass of such residents,
and it may be modified or taken away at the mere will of the
legislature, according to its own views of public convenience,
and without any necessity for the consent of those composing
the body politic.
It was said in that case that "public duties are required of
counties as well as of towns, as a part of the machinery of the
State, and, in order that they may be able to perform those
duties, they are vested with certain corporate powers; but their
functions are wholly of a public nature, and they are at all
times as much subject to the will of the legislature as incorporated towns, as appears by the best text writers upon the
subject and the great weight of judicial authority "
In Commssoners &c. v Lucas, Treasurer,93 U S. 108, 114,
the question of the validity of an act of the legislature was
presented, and Mr. Justice Field, in delivering the opinion of
the court, said.
"Were the transaction one between the State and a private
-individual, the invalidity of the act would not be a matter of
serious doubt. Private property cannot be taken from individuals by the State, except for public purposes, and then
only upon compensation or by way of taxation, and any enactments to that end would be -regarded as an illegitimate and
But beunwarranted exercise of legislative power.
as
cities,
such
corporations,
tween the State and municipal
counties, and towns, the relation is different from that between
the State and the individual. Municipal corporations are
mere instrumentalities of the State, for the convenient administration of government, and their powers may be qualified,
enlarged or withdrawn, at the pleasure of the legislature."
In Mount Pleasant v Beckwith, 100 U S.514, it was held

WORCESTER v STREET RAILWAY CO.
196 U. S.

Opunon of the Court.

that, where no constitutional restriction is inposed, the corporate existence and powers of counties, cities and towns are
subject to the legislative control of the State creating them.
In New Orleans v New Orleans Water Works Company, 142
U. S. 79, it was also held that a municipal corporation was the
mere agent of the State in its governmental character, and was
in no contract relations with its sovereign, at whose pleasure
its charter may be amended, changed or revoked without the
impairment of any constitutional obligation. It was also
therein held that such a corporation, m respect to its private
or proprietary rights and interests, might be entitled to constitutional protection. The Massachusetts courts take the
same view of such a corporation. Browne v Turner, 176
Massachusetts, 9.
Enough cases have been cited to show the nature of a
municipal corporation as stated by this court. In general it
may be conceded that it can own private property, not of a
public or governmental nature, and that such property may
be entitled, as is said, "to constitutional protection." Property which is held by these corporations upon conditions or
terms contained in a grant and for a special use, may not be
diverted by the legislature. This is asserted in Commisswzoners
&c. v Lucas, Treasurer, 93 U S. 108, 115, and m Mount Hope
Cemetery v Boston, 158 Massachusetts, 509, the Supreme Court
of Massachusetts held that cities might have a private ownership of property which could not be wholly controlled by the
Q
state government.
It seems, however, plain to us that the asserted right to
demand the continuance of the obligation to pave and repair
the streets, as contained in the orders or decrees of the board
of aldermen granting to the defendant the right to extend the
locations of its tracks on the conditions named, does not amount
to property held by the corporation, which the legislature is
unable to touch, either by way of limitation or extinguishment.
If these restrictions or conditions are to be regarded as a contract, we think the legislature would have the same right to

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

196 U. S.

terminate it, with the consent of the railroad company, that
the city itself would have. These restrictions and conditions
were of a public'nature, imposed as a means of collecting from
the railroad company part, or possibly the whole, of the expenses of paving or repaving the streets m which the tracks
were laid, and that method of collection did not become an
absolute property right m favor of the city, as against the right
of the legislature to alter or abolish it, or substitute some other
method with the consent of the company, even though as to
the company itself there might be a contract not alterable except with its consent. If this contention of the city were held
valid, it would very largely diminish the right of the legislature
to deal with its creature in public matters, in a manner which
the legislature might regard as for the public welfare. In City
of Spnngfield v Sprbngfield Street Railway, 182 Massachusetts,
41, this question was before the Supreme Judicial Court of
Massachusetts, and the contention of the city, to the same
effect as the plaintiff in error contends in this case, was overruled. It was therein held that the city acted in behalf of the
public in regard to these extensions of locations, and that the
legislature had the right to modify or abrogate the conditions
on which the locations in the streets and public ways had been
granted, after such conditions had been originally imposed by
it. The case at bar was decided at the same time as the
Sprngfield case (182 Massachusetts, 49), and the proposition
that the legislature had the power to free the company from
obligations imposed upon it by the conditions in the grant of
the extended locations was adhered to, and the Sprngfield
case cited as authority for the same. We concur in that view
There is no force in the contention that the city of Worcester
has a proprietary right in the property of the defendant in
error, reserved to it under the original statute incorporating the
Worcester Horse Railroad Company (Chap. 148, Mass. Laws
of 1861.) These sections simply give the city of Worcester
the right, during the continuance of the charter of the corporation and after the expiration of ten years from the opening of

FLANIGAN v. SIERRA COUNTY
196 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

any part of said road for use, to purchase all its franchises,
property, rights, etc. That right is not affected by the legislation m question, even assuming (which we do not for a moment
intimate) that the act of 1898 affected the right of the city
to make the purchase under the sections, above cited.
We see no reason to doubt the validity of the act of 1898,
and the judgments of the Supreme Judicial Court and the
Superior Court of Massachusetts are, respectively,
Affirmed.

FLANIGAN v. SIERRA COUNTY
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 121. Argued January 12, 1905.-Decided February 20, 1905.

Whether a statute of a State is or is not a revenue measure and how rights
thereunder are affected by a repealing statute depends upon the construction of the statutes, and where no Federal question exists this court
will lean to an agreement with the state court.
Under the California cases the county ordinance imposing licenses involved
in this case was a revenue and not a police measure.
While the doctrine that powers derived wholly from a statute are extinguished by its repeal and no proceedings can be pursued under the repealed statute, although begun before the repeal, unless authorized under
a special clause in the repealing act has been oftenest illustrated in regard
to penal statutes, it has been applied by the California courts to the
repeal of the power of counties to enact revenue ordinances and will
therefore m such a case be applied by this court.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr C C Cole, with whom Mr Joseph C Campbell and Mr
Thomas H. Breeze were on the brief, for petitioner"
The ordinance under which this action was commenced was

repealed by the act of the legislature of the State of California
of March 23, 1901, and hence the action is abated.

Garmson

