OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

196 U. S.

equivalent, sunk upon lode or placer claims," and "the location and description of each corner, with the markings thereon."
A failure to comply with these regulations was the ground upon
which'the Supreme Court of Montana held the location invalid.
It is contended that these provisions are too stringent, and conflict with the liberal purpose manifested by Congress in its
legislation respecting mining claims. We do not think that
they are open to this objection. They certainly do not conflict with the letter of any Congressional statute, on the contrary, are rather suggested by sec. 2324. It may well be that
the state legislature, in its desire to guard against false testimony in respect to a location, deemed it important that full
particulars in respect to the discovery shaft and the corner
posts should be at the very beginning placed of record. Even
if there were no danger of false testimony, it was not unreasonable to guard against the resurrection of incomplete locations when by subsequent explorations mining clams of great
value have been uncovered.
We see no error in the rulings of the Supreme Court of
Montana, and its judgment is

Affirmied.

CHICAGO, INDIANAPOLIS AND LOUISVILLE RAILWAY COMPANY v. McGUIRE.
ERROR TO THE APPELLATE COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
No. 69. Argued December 2,5,1904.-Decided JanuT3,1905.

Where certain facts from which a Federal question might arise were argued
in the state court, but their Federal character was not indicated, they
cannot be made the basis of a writ of error.
Where a petition to transfer the case to the Supreme Court of the State,
which contains a mere suggestion of the violation of a Federal right without any reference to the Constitution of the United States, is demed vithout opinion, this court may infer that the petition was denied because the
constitutional point was not made in the courts below, and if it was considered, the burden to show it is on the plaintiff in error.

CHICAGO, INDIANAPOLIS &c. RY CO. v. McGUIRE. 129
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

It is too late to set up a Federal question for the first time in the petition
for writ of error to this court.
Because plaintiff in error relied solely for title upon a decree of foreclosure
and sale in a Federal court it does not necessarily follow that a Federal
question was set up and decided adversely, no statute, state or Federal,
or authority thereunder, being called m question.

THis was a suit in the nature of a bill in equity instituted
in the Circuit Court for Pulaski County, by the railroad company, to quiet its title to certain land, and for an injunction.
The case was tried before a jury and a verdict returned for the
defendants, under instruction of the court.
Both parties claimed title through the Louisville, New
Albany and Chicago Railway Company-plaintiff in error,
which was also plaintiff below, through certain mortgages
given by the New Albany Company in 1886, 1890 and 1894,
which were foreclosed m the United States Circuit Court, and
through which foreclosure and subsequent sale its title became
vested-defendants, through a judgment recovered by McGuire September 24, 1896, in the Circuit Court of White
County, against the New Albany Company for $2,416.30,
upon which an execution was issued October 16, 1897, to the
sheriff of Pulaski County, and a levy made upon the real estate
in dispute. A sale was made November 13, 1897, to the defendant Hathaway, to whom a deed was executed by the
sheriff November 23, 1898.
It was insisted by the plaintiff railroad company that the
property in controversy was a part of the ground appurtenant
to its station at Francesville, Indiana, and that the foreclosure
and sale of the property of the New Albany road, through
which it obtained its title, carried with it the title to the
premises in dispute. The judgment of McGuire was obtained
after the execution of the mortgages through which the plaintiff claimed its title. Defendants insisted that the disputed
property was not embraced within the mortgages under the
after-acquired property clause inserted therein, because entirely foreign to the operation of the railroad, and therefore
could not have been embraced within the foreclosure and sale.
vOL. cxovi-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

196 U. S.

The Appellate Court of Indiana sustained their contention,
held that the trial court was right in instructing the jury to
return a verdict for the appellees, and affirmed its judgment.
31 Ind. App. 110. The Supreme Court deied a petition for
review
Mr Harry R. Kurre, with whom Mr E. C Field and Mr.
G W Kretznger were on the brief, for plaintiff in error, cited
and distinguished in support of jurisdiction Howard v Flemng, 191 U S. 137, Beals v Cone, 188 U S. 184, Le-gh v. Green.,
193 U. S. 79, Mallett v North Carolina, 181 U S. 589; Gableman v Peora&c., 179 U S. 335, Defiance &c. v Defiance, 191
U S. 184, Home for Incurables v New York, 187 U S. 155,
Johnson v New York &c., 187 U S. 491, Mutual Life v McGrew, 188 U S. 291, Bausman v Dixon, 173 U. S. 113, West.
Un. Tel. Co. v Ann Arbor &c., 178 U S. 239, Pope v Loussville &c., 173 U S. 573, Marrow v Brnkley, 129 U. S. 178;
Wedding v Meyler, 192 U S. 573, Wabash Railway v Pearce,
192 U S. 179, Cent. Nat. Bk. v Stevens, 169 U S. 432, 460;
Crawford v Burke, 195 U S. 176, and as to the proper presentation of the case in the state court, Bane v Keefer, 152 Indiana,
544, Terre Haute v Fagan,21 Ind. App. 371, Hedrck v Hall,
155 Indiana, 371.
Mr W H. H. Miller and Mr Maurwe Winfield for defendants in error.
MR. JusTIoD. BRowx, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

Motion is made to dismiss this writ of error upon two grounds,
(1) That the supposed Federal question was not set up and
claimed until too late. (2) That there is no Federal question
in the case.
The motion must be sustained upon the first ground. The
Federal question now put forward by the plaintiff is that the

CHICAGO, INDIANAPOLIS &c. RY. CO. v. McGUIRE. 131
196 U. S.

Opini of the Court.

Appellate Court failed to give full faith and credit to the foreclosure decree made by the Circuit Court of the United States
and the sale in pursuance thereof, in refusing to hold that the
mortgages foreclosed by said decree covered and included in
their description of the property therein conveyed the real
estate in controversy This question, however, never seems
to have been presented either to the court of first instance or
to the court of appellate jurisdiction. It is true the question
was argued at length as to what was intended to be covered
by the description m the mortgages and by the foreclosure and
sale, but the Federal character of this question was not indicated until after a petition for a rehearing in the Appellate
Court had been overruled. Plaintiff then filed in the Supreme
Court of the State a petition for the transfer of the cause to
tha court, and, as grounds for such transfer, insisted that the
Appellate Court erred in holding that the property in controversy was after-acquired property, not used for railway
purposes, and on this account was not within the mortgages
upon which appellant's title was based, and that the court
thereby "refused to give due effect to the judgment of the
Federal court."
This petition appears to have been denied by the Supreme
Court without an opimon. Doubtless, if that court had proceeded to pass upon this as a Federal question we should have
held it sufficient, but it will be observed that the petition contamed a. mere suggestion of a violation of a Federal right, not
the distinct presentation of a Federal question, and that no
reference was made to the Constitution of the United States.
Oxley Stave Co. v Bulter County, 166 U S. 648. We are left
to infer that the petition was denied because the point of constitutionality was not made in either of the courts below
The rule seems to be settled in Indiana, as in many other
States, that the matter assigned in the Supreme Court of the
State as error must have been properly presented in the court
below and there adjudicated. Coleman v Dobbins, 8 Indiana,
156, 164, Priddy v Dodd, 4 Indiana, 84, Wesley v Millord, 41

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

Indiana, 413, Selkrng v Jones, 52 Indiana, 409; Russell v
Harrison, 49 Indiana, 97 This is also the practice in this
court. Cornell v Green, 163 U S. 75, 80; Ansbro v United
States, 159 U S. 695, Pine River Logging Co. v United States,
186 U S. 279, 289. If the Supreme Court did in fact consider the Federal question the burden was upon the plaintiff
to show it. There is no presumption that the court considered
such question. Under such circumstances we decline to review the constitutional question here. This was expressly
held in Jacob? v Alabama, 187 U. S. 133, Layton v Missouri,
187 U S. 356, Spies v Illinois, 123 U S. 131.
True, the Federal question was set up at length in the petition filed in the Appellate Court for a writ of error from this
court, but that was clearly too late. Fowler v Lamson, 164
U. S. 252, MissouriPacific Co. v Fitzgerald, 160 U. S. 556, 575,
Ansbro v United States, 159 U S. 695.
In this connection the plaintiff in error urges upon us the
proposition that, as it relied solely upon a title derived by a
foreclosure and sale in a Federal court, the state court must
necessarily have considered and decided that question, and
that in such cases the Federal Constitution need not be specially set up and claimed. This argument would necessarily
not apply to the Supreme Court of the State, which, as above
indicated, might have held and probably did hold that
the Federal question, not having been suggested in the court
below, could not be made available on appeal. The Appellate
Court did not discuss it. There are doubtless a few cases
which hold that, where the validity of a treaty or statute or
authority of the United States is raised, and the decision is
against it, or the validity of a state statute is drawn in question, and the decision is in favor of its validity, and the Federal
question appears in the record and was decided, or such decision
was necessarily involved in the case, the fact that it was not
specially set up and claimed is not conclusive against a review
of such question here. Columbia Water Power Company v
Street Railway Co., 172 U S. 475, 488. But as the validity of

AMERICAN EXPRESS CO. v. IOWA.
196 U. S.

Syllabus.

no statute, state or Federal, or authority thereunder, was called
in question here, this rule does not apply The true and
rational rule stated by this court in Brdge Propmetors v
Hoboken Co., 1 Wall. 116, 143, is clearly applicable: "That the
court must be able to see clearly, from the whole record, that a
certain provision of the Constitution or act of Congress was
relied on by the party who brings the writ of error, and that
the right thus claimed by him was denied." This case is the
not infrequent one of an attempt to clutch at the jurisdiction
of this court as an afterthought, when all other resources of
litigation have been exhausted.
The Federal question, if any such existed, as to which we
express no opinion, was not set up or claimed at the proper
time, and
The writ of error must, therefore, be dism.ssed.

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY v. IOWA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 67. Argued December 2, 1904.-Decided January 3, 1905.

The writ of error in O'Neil v. Vermont, 144 U. S. 344, was dismissed because it did not appear that the commerce clause of the Constitution was
relied on in, was called to the attention of, or passed on by, the state court,
and the case is inapposite where it appears that the protection of commerce clause was properly set up, relied upon in, and demed by, the
state court.
Bowman v Chwago, 125 U. S. 465, Letsj v. Hardin,135 U. S. 100, Rhodes
v. Iowa, 170 U. S. 412, Vance v. Vandercook Co. No. 1, 170 U. S. 438,
rest on the broad principle of the freedom of commerce between the States,
of the right of citizens of one State to freely contract to receive and send
merchandise from and to another State, and on the want of power of one
State to destroy contracts concerning interstate commerce valid m the
States where made.
The right of the parties thereto to make a contract, valid in the State where
made, for the sale and purchase of merchandise and in so doing to fix the

