OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

CALEDONIAN COAL COMPANY v. BAKER.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREM1E COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
NEW MEXICO.

No. 419. Argued January 27, 190.-Decided February 20, 190.
In an action for mandamus against a judge of a territorial court in New
Mexico, who, after the appeal, ceased to be judge and whose successor has
consented that the action be revived against him, this court may, under
the act of Congress of February 8, 1899, if in its judgment necessity
exists for such action in order to obtain a settlement of the legal questions involved, substitute the name of the successor in place of the original
appellee. In this case this court orders the substitution, the party substituted not to be liable for any costs prior hereto.
A court cannot acquire jurisdiction over the person of a defendant except
by actual service of notice upon him within the jurisdiction or upon some
one authorized to accept service in his behalf, or by his waiver, by general appearance or otherwise, of the want of due service.
Service of a summons in an action in a territorial court of New Mexico on
the president of a railway corporation, while passing through New Mexico
as a passenger on a railroad train, held insufficient as a personal service
of a corporation organized under an act of Congress, having offices in
New York, Kansas and Illinois, and none in New Mexico; the mere ownership of lands, the bringing of suits to protect such lands, in New
Mexico does not locate the corporation in New Mexico for the purposes
of a personal action against it based on such a service of the summons.
Nor was such service authorized by the Compiled Laws of New Mexico,
1897
Although the state of the statute law in respect of suits like this may operate injuriously at times the situation cannot be changed by the courtsthat can only be done by legislation.

Tnis appeal brings up for review a final judgment of the
Supreme Court of the Territory of New Mexico denying an
application to that court by the Caledonian Coal Company
for a writ of mandamus to compel Benjamin S. Baker, Judge
of the District Court of the Second Judicial District of that
Territory, to take cognizance of a certain action brought m

CALEDONIAN COAL COMPANY v. BAKER.
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

that court against the Santa F6 Pacific Railroad Company
and others.
The petition for mandamus makes the following case:
On the seventeenth day of February, 1904, the Caledonian
Coal Company, organized under the laws of New Mexico,
commenced an action in the District Court of the Second
Judicial District of that Territory against the Santa F6 Pacific
Railroad Company, the Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6 Railroad Company, the Colorado Fuel and Iron Company and the
American Fuel Company, to recover damages for alleged
violations of the Interstate Commerce Act of 1887 and the
Anti Trust Act of 1890.
By the ninth section of the above act of 1887 it is provided
that "any person or persons claiming to be damaged by any
common carrier subject to the provisions of this act may either
make -complaint to the Commission as hereinafter provided
for; or may bring suit in his or their own behalf for the recovery
of the damages for which such common carrier may be liable
under the provisions of this act, in any District or Circuit Court
of the United States of competent jurisdiction, but such person or persons shall not have the right to pursue both of said
remedies, and must in each case elect which one of the two
methods of procedure herein provided for he or they will
adopt.
" 24 Stat. 379, c. 104. And by section 7 of
the above act of 1890 it was provided that "any person who
shall be injured m his business or property by any other person
or corporation by reason of anything forbidden or declared
to be unlawful by this act, may sue therefor in any Circuit
Court of the United States in the District in which the defendant resides or is found, without respect to the amount in
controversy, and shall recover threefold the damages by him
sustained, and the costs of suit, including a reasonable attorney's fee." 26 Stat. 209, c. 647
A summons was issued against the Santa F6 Pacific Railroad
Company and was returned by the Marshal of the Territory,
the return stating that it was served at the above district on
voL. cxcvi-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

the thirteenth day of May, 1904, by delivering a true copy
thereof, with a copy of the complaint thereto attached, to
E. P Ripley, president of the defendant corporation.
The Santa F6 Pacific Railroad Company is a corporation organized and existing under the act of Congress of March 3,
1897, defining the rights of purchasers under mortgages authorized by an act of Congress approved April 20, 1871, concerning
the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company 29 Stat. 622,
c. 374.
When the grievances set out m the petition were committed,
the Santa F6 Pacific Railroad Company was the owner of a
line of railroad within the Second Judicial District of New
Mexico and elsewhere within that Territory, but which line,
at the commencement of this action, had been sold and transferred to, and was being operated by, the Atchison, Topeka
and Santa F6 Railroad Company under a conveyance authorized by an act of Congress of June 27, 1902, 32 Stat. 405,
c. 1159, was the owner of several hundred thousand acres of
land within that District; and, at the commencement of the
action for damages, was prosecuting in one of the counties of
the Territory, within the same District, suits involving the
company's title and possession of parts of those lands.
All of those lands, with the rights, privileges and franchises
appertaining thereto where acquired by the Santa F6 Pacific
Railroad Company as the successor of the Atlantic and Pacific
Railroad Company, to which last named company they were
granted by the act of Congress of July 27, 1866. 14 Stat.
292, c. 278.
The petition for mandamus alleged that by reason of the
above facts the Santa F6 Pacific Railroad Company was an
"inhabitant" of the Second Judicial District of New Mexico,
and by reason of the presence of Ripley, its president, in that
Territory and within that District and the service of summons
in the above action upon him as such president, the company
was "found" in the District within the meaning of the acts
Qf Congress,

CALEDONIAN COAL COMPANY v. BAKER.
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Nevertheless, the defendant Baker, Associate Justice of the
Supreme Court of the Territory and Judge of the District
Court of the Second Judicial District, quashed the return of
the above summons and refused to assume jurisdiction of the
action, so far as the Santa F6 Pacific Railroad Company was
concerned, or to require that company to answer the declaration or complaint filed by petitioner.
The defendant Baker made a return to a rule issued against
him to show cause. From that return it appeared that the
Santa F6 Pacific Railroad Company specially appeared m the
action for the purpose of moving and did move to quash the service of process, upon grounds set forth in an affidavit of its
president. In that affidavit Ripley stated that when served
with summons he was only a passenger on a railroad train
passing through the Territory; that the company had its office
in the city of New York, while its land commissioner had an
office at Topeka, Kansas, and its president an office at Chicago,
Illinois; that the company had no property in the Territory of
New Mexico, except lands acquired by it under a foreclosure
of a mortgage of the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company,
and which lands were undisposed of, that it has had no office
or place of business in the Territory since the sale of its road.
This affidavit was used on the hearing of the motion to quash,
and the facts stated in it were not contradicted.
The contention of the company, therefore, was that the
service in question was msufficient to bring the company,
personally, before the court.
The return of the judge also stated that the actions in ejectment brought by the railroad company against trespasses upon
its property were instituted prior to the sale of its railroad
property and franchises to the Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6
Railroad Company; and that the refusal of the judge to assume
jurisdiction m the case referred to was upon the ground that
the service upon Ripley as president of the company was not,
in his opinion, sufficient to subject it personally to the jurisdiction of the court.

OCTOBER TERI,

1904.

Argument for Appellant.

196 U. S.

The relief sought was an alternative writ of mandamus,
directing Judge Baker to assume jurisdiction of the cause, so
far as the Santa F6 Railroad Company was concerned, and to
require that company to plead, answer or demur.
The Supreme Court of the Territory, after hearing the case,
upon the pleadings, return and the proofs, denied the petition
for mandamus and dismissed the application. From that order
the present appeal was prosecuted.
Mr Neill B. Field for appellant:
The District Court had jurisdiction of the subject matter
of the original action. Section 17, Organic Act, New Mexico,
9 Stat. 452, § 1910 Rev Stat., 26 Stat. 209, 24 Stat. 379.
If the District Courts of the Territories, when sitting for the
trial of causes arising under the Constitution and laws of the
United States, are not invested with jurisdiction to administer
the remedy here invoked, then persons and corporations violating these statutes, and confining their operations to the Territories need not respond in damages, however flagrant their
violations of the law They cannot be sued, in the United
States Circuit or District Courts, because the jurisdiction of
those courts does not extend to the Territories; and if they
cannot be sued in the territorial courts, they cannot be sued
at all.
The District Courts of the Territories are invested with admiralty jurisdiction which is analogous on the question of jurisdiction. City of Panama, 101 U S. 458, Insurance Co. v.
Canter, 1 Pet. 511, and see construction of act of March 3,
1887, 24 Stat. 505, and cases cited, In re Cooper, 143 U S.
494; United States v Foreman, 5 Oklahoma, 237, Johnson v
United States, 6 Utah, 407, United States v Johnson, 140
U S. 703.
The Santa F6 Pacific Railroad Company is not a "foreign"
corporation in New Mexico.
The fundamental error of the court below lies in the assumption that the company is a "foreign" corporation in

CALEDONIAN COAL COMPANY v. BAKER.
196 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

New Mexico. The assumption is supported by no reasoning,
but that the court did so assume appears from the opinion.
See act of incorporation, 29 Stat. 622. A corporation created by or under authority of an act of Congress has its
domicile in every place where it may lawfully exercise its
corporate powers. Bank of Augusta v Earle, 13 Pet. 588,
1 Thomp. on Corp. § 681, 2 Morawetz, § 984, Commonwealth
v Tex. & P R. R. Co., 98 Pa. St. 100; California v Pac. R.
R. Co., 127 U S. 39.
The railroad company holds its lands in New Mexico under
the authority of Congress, and that authority is clearly not
subject to be circumscribed by territorial legislation. The
franchise to exist as a corporation is on the same footing.
Com. v Tex. & Pac. R. R. Co., 127 U S. 39; Van Dresser v
Oregon Ry. & Nay. Co., 48 Fed. Rep. 202; Pac. R. R. Removal
Cases, 115 U. S. 1, Bank of U S. v Roberts, 2 Fed. Cas. 728.
The Santa F6 Pacific Railroad Company was "found"
within the district in which the suit was brought.
The court below treated the railroad company as being on
the same footing with a corporation chartered by a State,
citing United States v Southern Pacific Railroad Company,
49 Fed. Rep. 297, but this case does not sustain the proposition.
As to how service may be made on domestic corporations,
see Comp. Laws, New Mexico, 1897, §§ 450, 2963, Kansas
R. R. City v Daugherty, 138 U. S. 298.
The contention of the railroad company must be clearly
established and it affirmatively appears from the answer that
service on it was sufficient, and that appellant is entitled to
the relief prayed for. New Haven &c. Co. v Downgton Co.,
130 Fed. Rep. 605, United States v Southern Pac. R. Co., 49
Fed. Rep. 297, Cosmopolitan &c. Co. v Walsh, 193 U. S. 460.
Mr Robert Dunlap for appellee:
It does not sufficiently appear that the District Court obtained jurisdiction in a personal action so as to enable it to
render a personal judgment against the Santa F6 Pacific Rail-

OCTOBER TERI, 1904.
Argument for Appellee.

196 U. S.

road Company by the service made on its president while he
was casually passing through the district and was not at the
time representing the railroad company The railroad company was not so identified with its president at the time in
that district as to render the service of summons upon him
a service upon it so as to subject it to the orders or judgments
of that court. Goldey v Morning News Co., 156 U. S. 521,
Mex. Cent. Ry. Co. v Pinkney, 149 U S. 209; Hams v Hardeman, 14 How 339, Phillips v Burlington Library Co., 141
Pa. St. 462.
A corporation can be said to have a techmcal habitat or
place of residence only in the State or district where its corporate meetings are held. G., H. & San Ant. Ry. Co. v Gonzales,
151 U S. 496, Int. Com. Comm. v Tex. & Pac. Ry. Co., 57
Fed. Rep. 949; Jones v Scottish Accuent Ins. Co., L. R. 17
Q. B. Div 421, Watkins v Scottish Imperial Ins. Co., L. R.
23 Q. B. D 285, Frick Co. v Norfolk & W R. Co., 26 Fed.
Rep. 725, Lafayette Ins. Co. v French, 18 How 408.
The service of summons, even upon the president of a corporation while temporarily in a State or district in which the
corporation is not at the time transacting its business, is not
a valid service upon the corporation, even though the local
laws should authorize the same, because such president does
not then represent that corporation. Saint Clair v Cox, 106
U S. 350; Goldey v Morning News, 156 U S. 518, Construction
Co. v Fitzgerald, 137 U S. 106, Mecke v Valleytown Mineral
Co., 93 Fed. Rep. 697, Beale on For. Corp. § 270.
The rule is the same even though the corporation at some
period prior to the service had been engaged in business in the
particular State or district, or that some officer of the corporation had at all times resided therein. The corporation has
the right to withdraw from the State or district, and when it
is no longer represented in such State or district by an agent
transacting therein its ordinary business, it cannot be said to
be present therein at the time. Conley v Matheson Alkali
Works, 190 U S. 406, Geer v Mathseson Alkali Worksz, 190

CALEDONIAN COAL COMPANY 'v. BAIER.
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 428, DeCastro v Compagne Francase&c., 76 Fed. Rep.
426, Earle v Chesapeake & Ohw R. Co., 127 Fed. Rep. 235,
Cady v Associated Colonies, 119' Fed. Rep. 420; Eldred v
Am. Palace-CarCo., 105 Fed. Rep. 455, Beale on For. Corp.
A
§§ 279, 281.
The railroad company may -still qwn lands within the Territory of New Mexico without being represented therein by any
authorized agency Owning or holding lands in such district
is not doing or transacting its business therein. Mo. Coal &
Mining Co. v Ladd, 160 Missouri, 435, nor is it doing business in the Territory by prosecuting suits. McCall v Mortgage Co., 99 Alabama, 427, St. L., A. & T Ry. Co. v Fire
Assn., 55 Arkansas, 163, Utley v Mining Co., 4 Colorado, 369.
The test is whether the corporation has an agency within
the district transacting therein its ordinary business so that
it may be said to be impersonated in or represented by such
agency, for general purposes, including its subjection to the
service of process therein. Saint Clair v Cox, 106 U S. 351,
United States v Am. Bell Tel. Co., 29 Fed. Rep. 17
The District Court has no jurisdiction. It is a terminal
court and was not included in § 9, act of February 4, 1887,
24 Stat. 382. Reynolds v United States, 98 U S. 145, 154,
McAllister v United States, 141 U S. 174. As to what is a
court of competent jurisdiction under act of March 3, 1887,
see Unwn Switch Co. v Hall Signal Co., 65 Fed. Rep. 625,
and as to what is meant by "where defendant resides or may
be found" under act of July 2, 1890, see United States v Bell
Tel. Co., 29 Fed. Rep. 34, Maxwell v A., T & S. F R. R. Co.,
34 Fed. Rep. 286, Bentlif v London &c. Corporation,44 Fed.
Rep. 667, Clews v Woodstock Iron Co., 44 Fed. Rep. 31, St.
Louis Wire Co. v Consolidated Wire Co., 32 Fed. Rep. 802,
'Good Hope v Railway Fencing Co., 22 Fed. Rep. 635.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
At the present term the appellant suggested that Judge

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opunon of the Court.

196 U. S.

Baker had been succeeded in office by Judge Ira A. Abbott.
And it moved that such order be made m the premises as
would be conformable to the rules and practice of this court.
Judge Abbott consents that the action may be revived against
him as the successor of Judge Baker, and proceed to a hearing,
without further summons or notice, upon the record as now
presented to the court.
The first question to be considered is whether it is competent
for this court, Judge Baker having ceased to be judge, to
substitute the name of his successor, as the appellee.
In United States v Boutwell, 17 Wall. 604, 607, which was
a mandamus against Mr. Boutwell as Secretary of the Treasury,
it appeared that after the case was brought to this court the
defendant resigned his office. Thereupon a motion was made
to substitute the name of his successor, Mr. Richardson. It
did not appear that any previous application was made to the
latter for leave to substitute his name, and he opposed the
motion, which was denied.
Mr. Justice Strong delivered the opinion of the court, sayng- "The office of a writ of mandamus is to compel the performance of a duty resting upon the person to whom the writ is
sent. That duty may have originated in one way or in another.
It may, as is alleged in the present case, have arisen from the
acceptance of an office which has imposed the duty upon its
incumbent. But no matter out of what facts or relations
the duty has grown, what the law regards and what it seeks to
enforce by a writ of mandamus, is the personal obligation of
th6 individual to whom it addresses the writ. If he be an
officer, and the duty be an official one, still the writ is aimed
exclusively against him as a person, and he only can be punished for disobedience. The writ does not reach the office. It
cannot be directed to it. It is, therefore, in substance a personal action, and it rests upon the averred and assumed fact
that the defendant has neglected or refused to perform a
personal duty, to the performance of which by hin the relator
has a clear right. Hence it is an imperative rule that previous

CALEDONIAN COAL COMPANY v. BAKER.
196 U. S.

Opumon of the Court.

to making application for a writ to command the performance
of any particular act, an express and distinct demand or
request to perform it must have been made by the relator or
prosecutor upon the defendant, and it must appear that he
refused to comply with such demand, either in direct terms or
by conduct from which a refusal can be conclusively inferred.
Thus it is the personal default of the defendant that warrants
impetration of the writ, and if a peremptory mandamus be
awarded, the costs must fall upon the defendant." The court
proceeded. "It necessarily follows from this, that on the death
or retirement from office of the original defendant, the writ
must abate in the absence of any statutory provision to the
contrary When the personal duty exists only so long as the
office is held, the court cannot compel the defendant to perform it after his power to perform has ceased. And if a
successor in office may be substituted, he may be mulcted in
costs for the fault of his predecessor, without any delinquency
of his own. Besides, were a demand made upon him, he
might discharge the duty and render the interposition of the
court unnecessary At all events, he is not in privity with
his predecessor, much less is he his predecessor's personal
representative. As might be expected, therefore, we find no
case in which such a substitution as is asked for now has ever
been allowed in the absence of some statute authorizing it."
That case was followed by United States v Chandler, 122
U. S. 643, United States v Lochren, 164 U S. 701, Warner
Valley Stock Co. v Smith, 165 U S. 28, and United States ex rel.
&c. v Butterworth, 169 U S. 600, 604, 605. In the latter case
the court, after referring to prior cases, concluded its opinion
in these words: "In view of the mconvenience, of which the
present case is a striking instance, occasioned by this state of
the law, it would seem desirable that Congress should provide
for the difficulty by enacting that, in the case of suits against
the heads of Departments abating by death or resignation, it
should be lawful for the successor in office to be brought into
the case by petition, or some other appropriate method."

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

196 U. S.

Later, Congress, its attention being thus called to the
matter, passed the act of February 8, 1899, c. 121, by which it
was provided. "That no suit, action, or other proceeding
lawfully commenced by or against the head of any Department or Bureau or other officer of the United States in his
official capacity, or in relation to the discharge of his official
duties, shall abate by reason of his death, or the expiration of
his term of office, or his retirement, or resignation, or removal
from office, but, in such event, the court, on motion or supplemental petition filed, at any time within twelve months thereafter, showing a necessity for the survival thereof to obtain a
settlement of the questions involved, may allow the same to
be maintained by or against his successor in office, and the
court may make such order as shall be equitable for the payment of costs." 30 Stat. 822.
In view of the reasons assigned, in the Boutwell case, for the
inability of the court, in mandamus proceedings, to substitute
an existing public officer as a party in the place of his predecessor, who had ceased to be in office, we perceive no reason
why, under the act of 1899, the successor of Judge Baker may
not be now made a party in his stead. Certainly, the statute
authorizes that to be done, if in the judgment of the court,
there is a necessity for such action in order to obtain a settlement of the legal question involved. We think such a necessity
exists in this case, and as Judge Abbott waives any formal
summons and consents to the substitution of his name in place
of that of Judge Baker, the motion of appellant is granted, and
such substitution is ordered to be and is now made, subject,
however, to the condition that he shall not be liable for any
costs prior to this date.
We come now to the merits of the case.
The act under which the Territory of New Mexico was
created and organized, approved September 9, 1850, provides
that the legislative power of the Territory of New Mexico
should extend to all rightful subjects of legislation consistent
with the Constitution of the United States. The same act

CALEDONIAN COAL COMPANY v. BAKER.
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

divides the Territory into three judicial districts and requires
a District Court to be held in each of such districts by one of
the justices of the Territorial Supreme Court. It also provides: "Each of the said District Courts shall have and exercise
the same jurisdiction in all cases arising under the Constitution
and laws of the United States as is vested in the Circuit and
" This provision
District Courts of the United States;
United States,
of
the
Statutes
Revised
the
in
retained
was

§1910.
The present case clearly arises under the laws of the United
States; for, the action brought in the Territorial District Court
was expressly based on the Interstate Commerce Act of 1887
and the Anti Trust Act of 1890.
And the question arises upon the very face of the record
whether the Territorial District Court could take cognizance
at all of suits for damages authorized by those acts. We have
seen that by section 9 of the above act of 1887 any person or
persons alleged to have beeen damaged by a common carrier,
embraced by the provisions of that act, may bring suit in his
or their own behalf "in any District or Circuit Court of the
United States of competent jurisdiction;" and by the above
act of 1890 any person injured in his business or property by
any other person or corporation by reason of anything forbidden or declared to be unlawful by that act may sue therefor "in any Circuit Court of the United States in the district
in which the defendant resides or is found."
Although by the statutes in force prior to the passage of
the Interstate Commerce (1887) and Anti Trust Acts (1890),
the Territorial District Courts of New Mexico were given the
same jurisdiction in cases arising under the Constitution and
laws of the United States as is vested in the Circuit and District Courts of the United States, are those acts to be construed
as excepting from the general jurisdiction of the Territorial
District Courts cases that may arise under them? In other
words, can a suit for damages under either of those acts be
brought in any court except, under the act of 1887, in a Circuit

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opnon of the Court.

196 U. S.

or District Court of the United States, and, under the act of
1890, in a Circuit Court of the United States? Did Congress
intend that only courts of the United States, invested by the
Third Article of the Constitution with the judicial power of
the United States, McAllister v United States, 141 U S. 174
should have original jurisdiction of suits of that character?
The questions suggested by these inquiries were not much
discussed by counsel, and we pass them as being, in our view
of the case, not necessary to be now decided, for, if a controversy like that raised by the plaintiff is equally cogmzable by
a Territorial District Court or by a Circuit or District Court of
the United States, it would still remain to inquire whether the
defendant company was brought before the court in which
the suit was instituted in such way that a personal judgment
could be rendered against it?
It is firmly established that a court of justice cannot acquire
jurisdiction over the person of a defendant, "except by actual
service of notice within the jurisdiction upon him or upon some
one authorized to accept service in his behalf, or by his waiver,
by general appearance or otherwise, of the want of due service." Goldey v Morning News, 156 U S. 518, 521, Pennoyer
v Neff, 95 U S. 714, Mexican Central Railway v Pinkney,
149 U S. 194, 209, United States v Amencan Bell Tel. Co.,
29 Fed. Rep. 17 This principle is applicable to all courts.
We are of opinion that the service of summons upon Ripley,
as president, while he was passing through the Territory on a
railroad tram was insufficient as a personal service on the
company of which he was president. It is true that the company owned lands in the Territory, but its office, at which the
meetings of its directors were held, was in the city of New
York, while the office of its land commissioner was at Topeka,
Kansas, and the office of its president was at Chicago, Illinois.
The mere ownership of lands in New Mexico, or the bringing
of suits there to protect its lands against trespasses, could not
have had the effect to put the company into that Territory
for the purposes of a personal action against it based on service

CALEDONIAN COAL COMPANY v. BAKER.
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of summons upon one of its officers while passing through the
Territory on a railroad tram. If by the laws of New Mexico
a party having a cause of action against the company, based
on the acts of 1887 and 1890, could have sued out an attachment and caused it to be levied upon its lands in the Territory
in order to secure the satisfaction of any judgment he might
finally obtain in such action-upon which point we express
no opimon-it would not follow that a personal judgment
could have been rendered against the company In such case
the judgment of the court could not affect anything except
the lands attached. No personal judgment could have been
rendered against the company by reason merely of such
attachment.
It is contended that the case is covered by section 450 of
the Compiled Laws of New Mexico, 1897 That section provides that: "In suits against any corporation, summons shall
be served in that county where the principal office of the
corporation is kept or its principal business carried on, by
delivering a copy to the president thereof, if he may be found
in said county, but if he is absent therefrom, then the summons
shall be served in like manner in the county, on either the
vice-president, secretary, treasurer, cashier, general agent,
general superintendent or stockholder, or any agent of said
corporation, within such time and under such rules as are
provided by law for the service of such process in suits against
real persons, and if no such person can be found in the county
where the principal office of the corporation is kept, or in the
county where its principal business is carried on, to serve such
process upon, a summons may issue from either one of such
counties, directed to the sheriff of any county in this Territory
where any such person may be found and served with process.
If such corporation keeps no principal office in any county,
and there is no county in which the principal business of such
corporation is carried on, then suit may be brought against it
m any county where the above-mentioned officers, or any or
either of them may be found, Provided, That the plaintiff may,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

196 U. S.

in all cases, bring his action m the county where the cause of
action accrued."
Counsel for appellant substantially concedes that this
statute applies only to domestic corporations, that is, corporations created by or organized under territorial enactments.
But if it is to be assumed that these provisions could be made
applicable to a corporation created by an act of Congress, and
that for the purposes of suit such a corporation may be deemed
a domestic corporation m any State or Territory which it might
lawfully enter, still, it is evident that the above section cannot
avail the plaintiff. The Santa F6 Railroad Company, when
sued in the Territorial District Court, was not an inhabitant of
the district within the meaning of the local statute; it had no
principal or other office in the Territory; nor did it have an
officer who could, in a legal sense,-be "'found" there; nor did it,
in any just sense, carry on business in the Territory The
company sunply owned lands there, and that fact was not
sufficient by itself to bring the case within the provisions of
the territorial statute. This state of the law may sometimes
operate injuriously upon those who may wish to sue the railroad company in the territorial courts. But the situation cannot be changed by the courts. That can only be done by
legislation.
For the reasons stated the judgment of the Supreme Court
of the Territory must be
Affirmed.

