SIXTO v. SARRIA.
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

SIXTO v. SARRIA.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
THE DISTRICT OP PORTO RICO.

FOR

No. 40. Submitted November 3, 1904.-Decided January 3, 105.

Under the law of Porto Rico while an heir to an intestate may assert his
rights against one already designated heir ab intestato any time within five
years after the decree of designation, the heir so designated may within the
five year period collect debts due to the intestate's estate and, where the
payment is made in good faith and under the order of the court into which

the money was paid by the debtor, and without notice of existence and
claims of other heirs, discharge the debtor from liability, notwithstanding such other heirs subsequently assert their claims and are also designated as joint heirs ab zntestato.
Where, however, the debtor has legal notice from the court where the matter is pending that one not originally designated has asserted and is prosecuting a claim to recognition as an heir ab mntestato, any payments he
makes to the one first designated are at his own peril and liability to account to the other heir after his claim has been established for his proportionate share, and the debtor is not protected by a decree and order
of the court directing payment to the assignee of the heir originally designated in a proceeding to which such asserting heir was not a party.
Where the payment to the heir originally designated is made before the
debt is due and after the other heir has asserted his claim, and under
circumstances indicating collusion, it is for the jury to determine whether
the payment was made in good faith and without knowledge of the rights
of the asserting heir.

Tars is a writ of error bringing in review the proceedings of
the District Court of the United States for the District of
Porto Rico.
The original action was in assumpsit brought by Adolfo Sixto,
an alien, and a subject of the King of Spain; against Laureano
Sarria, a citizen of Porto Rico. The declaration set forth m
substance.
That on November 27, 1892, the defendant was indebted to
one Manuel Sixto, since deceased, m the sum of $16,000,
Spanish money, with interest from May 15 of the same year,
which sum said Sarria had promised to pay in four annual in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

stallments, falling due respectively on the fifteenth day of May
of each and every year from 1893 until 1896, inclusive. That
the said Manuel Sixto departed this life on November 27,
1892, leaving two children, plaintiff and one Maria Belen Sixto
Melendez, as his heirs at law That as such heir the plaintiff
was entitled to one-half of the indebtedness of $16,000, Spanish
money, with interest at the rate of eight per cent from May 15,
1892. The declaration contained the usual averments in assumpsit of promise and default. The defendant filed a plea
and amended plea to this declaration which set up the general
issue, and for further plea averred
"And for a further and second plea to the said declaration,
the defendant says that on the fifteenth day of May, eighteen
hundred and ninety-two, the defendant became indebted m
the sum of sixteen thousand dollars (16,000) Mexican dollars,
money then current in Porto Rico, to one Manuel Sixto, on
account of the purchase price of a farm situated in the island
of Vieques, district of Porto Rico, and called 'Monte Santo';
that on the said fifteenth day of May, eighteen hundred and
ninety-two, the defendant made and constituted a mortgage
upon the said farm in favor of the said Sixto, as security for
the payment of the aforesaid amount of sixteen thousand
(16,000) Mexican dollars, together with a certain interest as
stipulated in the said instrument of mortgage, that thereafter
the said mortgage was duly registered in the registry of property of Humacao, Porto Rico, on the eleventh day of July,
eighteen hundred and ninety-two, that the payment of the
aforesaid sum of sixteen thousand (16,000) Mexican dollars, as
provided for in the said instrument of mortgage, was to be
made in the manner following, to wit. four thousand (4,000)
dollars on the fifteenth day of May, eighteen hundred and
ninety-three, and four thousand (4,000) dollars on the fifteenth
day of May, of the years eighteen hundred and ninety-four,
eighteen hundred and ninety-five, and eighteen hundred and
nmety-six. And the defendant further says that the aforesaid
Emanuel Sixto departed this life on the twenty-seventh day of

SIXTO v. SARRIA.
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

November, eighteen hundred and ninety-two, before any of the
installments aforesaid had fallen due, that the said Sixto died
intestate, and soon after his death, to wit, in the year eighteen
hundred and ninety-three, judicial proceedings touching and
respecting the settlement and inheritance of the estate of the
said Manuel Sixto, deceased, and which said proceedings are
known in the law of Porto Rico as 'proceedings ab zntestato,'
were instituted in the court of first instance of Humacao,
Porto Rico, the said court being then and there a court of
record and of general jurisdiction, and the said court in said
proceedings by a decree dated the fifteenth day of June,
eighteen hundred and ninety-three, ordered the said defendant
to pay into and deposit with the said court all sums of money
then due by the said defendant to the said estate of the said
Manuel Sixto, deceased, by virtue of the aforesaid mortgage,
and the defendant thereupon and in obedience to the said
order of the said court did on the twenty-second day of June,
eighteen hundred and ninety-three, consign and deposit with
the said court and did place at the disposal of the same the
sum of four thousand (4,000) pesos of the money then current
in Porto Rico, and the further suni of eight hundred twentytwo and fifty-two hundredths (822.52) dollars of the same kind
of money, the first sum being the amount of the first installment due May fifteenth, eighteen hundred and ninety-three,
and the second sum being the interest due on the aforesaid
mortgage credit up to the first of June, eighteen hundred and
ninety-three. And the said decree of the said court was duly
entered before the commencement of this action and still is in
full force and effect.
"And the defendant further says, as to the third installment above mentioned, that by judgment of the Supreme
Court of Porto Rico, then known as the 'audiencia territorial,' dated the eighteenth day of February, eighteen hundred
and ninety-six, rendered and entered in certain foreclosure
proceedings had before the said court on appeal from the
court of first instance of Humacao, in which proceedings the
VOL. Oxcvi-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

defendant and one Antonio Roig y Torruellas were plaintiffs,
and which said proceedings the said Roig, as owner of the
third and fourth installments of the mortgage before mentioned, sought to foreclose the same to the extent of the third
installment aforesaid, together with certain interest, the defendant was found to be indebted to the said plaintiff, Roig,
in the amount of the third installment aforesaid, together
with the corresponding interest, and was ordered to pay the
amount of said indebtedness so found due by the said judgment to the said Roig within the period of thirty days
thereof, and the said judgment further provided for execution to issue upon the non-compliance with the terms thereof
by the defendant. Said judgment was duly entered before
the commencement of this suit and is still in force and effect.
And the said defendant thereupon and in compliance with the
said judgment of the said court thereafter paid unto the said
plaintiff, Roig, the amounts ordered to be paid by the said
judgment, to wit, the amount of the third installment of the
aforesaid mortgage, together with the corresponding interest.
And all of this the defendant is ready to verify"
The additional or amended plea sets forth.
"And the defendant as to the second installment aforesaid
says that he has paid the same, together with the corresponding interest, on the 4th day of April, 1894, to one Belen Sixto,
who was then the record owner of said mortgage credit, and
who had previously been declared heir ab tnlestato of said
Manuel Sixto, deceased, by the order and decree of the proper
court, to wit, the court of the first instance of Humacao,
respectively on the 21st and 23d of the month of November,
1893.
"And as to the third and fourth installments the defendant
says that on the 11th day of September, 1894, the aforesaid
Belen Sixto, for a valuable consideration, ceded and transferred the said two installments to one Antonio Roig y Torruellas; that thereupon the said transfer was duly recorded
and the said two installments appeared upon the record to

SIXTO v. SARRIA.
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

be the property of the said Roig, and thereupon, to wit, on
or about the 16th day of May, 1896, the defendant paid the
said Roig the amount of said two installments, together with
all interest due."
The bill of exceptions brings into the case the testimony
and the rulings and charge of the court. The facts developed
are: Manuel Sixto sold a farm to the defendant Sarria for
$16,000 Mexican money, payable in four equal installments
with interest. A mortgage was taken upon the property to
secure the payment of the purchase price. Manuel Sixto y
Andino died November 27, 1892, leaving no issue except two
natural children, a daughter by the name of Maria Belen
Sixto y Melendez (hereafter called Maria Belen), who lived
in Vieques, and the plaintiff in error, a son, who lived in the
island of St. Thomas. After the death of Manuel Sixto, the
daughter, Maria Belen, filed her petition in the court of first
instance of Humacao, Porto Rico, allegmg that she was the
only heir of Manuel Sixto, deceased, and praying the court to
declare her heir ab mntestato according to the provisions of
section 980, and following, of the Code of Porto Rico then in
force. Upon June 22, 1893, the defendant in error, Sarma,
paid into court, where the petition of Maria Belen was then
pending, the first installment due, with interest. On November 21, 1893, Maria Belen, by decree of the court, was adjudged heir ab mntestato of Manuel Sixto, without prejudice
to the rights of third parties. On the twenty-fifth of the same
month the assets received by the administrator of Manuel
Sixto, who had been appointed during the proceeding, and
the money paid into court by defendant in error, by order
of the court were made over to Maria Belen as sole heir ab
sntestato. On November 24, 1893, the plaintiff m error,
Adolfo Sixto, presented to the same court of first instance
his petition to be declared the heir of Manuel Sixto, deceased
(jointly entitled with Maria Belen), invoking the exercise by
the court of "voluntary jurisdiction" under the section of
the code whereby Maria Belen had been adjudged heir. To

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

this petition Maria Belen answered, alleging that she had been
duly declared the only heir of Manuel Sixto, and that the
plaintiff in error could only contest her right by a "contentious suit" (expediente contenstoso).
The court sustained this contention, and Sixto appealed,
but later abandoned the appeal, and on April 4, 1894, began
a suit in the form of a contentious proceeding, making Maria
Belen a party defendant, and praying the court to declare
him (Adolfo Sixto) an equal heir with her in the estate of
Manuel Sixto, and asking the court to issue an order to the
registrar of property, requiring him to make a cautionary
entry m the register concerning the property affected by this
suit, and also requiring the defendant in error to retain, at
the disposition of the court, the sums still owing to the estate
of Manuel Sixto. On June 2, 1894, a notice was accordingly
issued to Sarria and one to the registrar. The one to Sarma
was issued on June 5, 1894, and the one to the registrar on
June 4, 1894. The defendant, Maria Belen, being notified of
these orders, on June 26, 1894, answered the plaintiff's petition, and in her answer prayed that the interlocutory order
of June 2, 1894, be vacated and the notices canceled. On
August 30, 1894, the prayer of defendant's answer was granted
by the court, and orders issued accordingly to the registrar
and to Sarria, and notice was given to the solicitor of the
plaintiff. On September 1, 1894, the order reached the registrar, and the order of cancellation was made on the books on
September 3, 1894. On September 3, 1894, the plaintiff filed
a petition for an appeal from the court's order of August 30,
1894, praying that it be allowed "in both effects," that is,
(Code, sec. 383), with the effect of a review and stay of proceedings, but the judge granted the same with one effect only,
that is, for a review of the judgment. In the appellate court,
on November 17, 1894, that court held that the allowance of
both effects had been wrongfully denied, and ordered that the
appeal be considered as having been taken for both effects.
On December 22, 1894, the appellate court granted a further

SIXTO v. SARRIA.
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

order, that Sarria, the defendant m error, be notified of his
obligation under the decree of June 2, 1894, which order was
accordingly issued. On November 29, 1895, the appellate
court (audiencia) rendered its decision on the merits of the
appeal, and reversed the order of August 30, 1894, and reaffirmed the order of June 2, 1894, m its validity and regularity
The court used the following language:
"That which was ordered m the decree appealed from regarding Mr. Laureano Sarra is hereby set aside, leaving in
force the requisition ordered and directed to said Sarria on
June 2 by the judge of first instance until the resolution of
the pending appeal."
This decision was certified to the court below in January,
1896, and in March following the solicitor of the plaintiff requested the court to notify Sarria and the registrar that the
order of June 2, 1894, was still m force, which was accordingly
done, and the defendant in error made reply thereto as follows:
" Having received notice that the installment of the mortgage had been transferred to Mr. Antonio Roig, who has recorded said transfer in the registry of property, and supposing that he will proceed to collect the same judicially as he did
the previous installment, he is unable to accept the notification, and he will appear before the audiencia in the premises."
The registrar refused to comply with the order for these
reasons: "First, because subsequent to the illegal cancellation
of the cautionary notice the property as well as the encumbrance had been transferred on the registry; and, second, because the mortgage law contained no provision regarding the
form of carrying into effect such an order." Thereafter the
plaintiff asked the court for a further order to the registrar,
but this was denied.
The case proceeded to proof and argument, and on December 15, 1896, a final decision was rendered, adverse to the
plaintiff, from which decree he took an appeal, which was allowed "in both effects." The appeal was also allowed from

OCTOBER TERAI,

1904.

Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

the order denying a further order to the registrar. On February 2, 1897, the appellate court consolidated the appeals
and ordered the suspension of further proceedings until final
decision.
In the meantime, on April 26, 1896, by an order of the
court of the first instance, Sarria was allowed to withdraw his
deposit of the third installment. The order recited that one
Roig had become the purchaser from Maria Belen of the third
and fourth installments, and had recovered judgment in the
audiencia against Sarria for the third installment, found that
Maria Belen had the right to transfer these installments, and
ordered a copy of the decree to be placed in the records by
the actuary
Thus the matter remained until after the conclusion of the
war with Spain, resulting in a change of sovereignty of Porto
Rico.
By the military government, an order was issued abolishmg the territorial audiencia, the appellate court aforesaid,
creating in its place the District Court of San Juan. On September 29, 1899, that court rendered its final decision upon
both appeals, reversing the action of the court below, and
deciding the plaintiff to be legally proved the heir of Manuel
Sixto. The trial in the United States District Court in the
present suit resulted in a verdict and judgment for the defendant.
Mr N B. K. Pettngill for plaintiff in error.
There was no appearance or brief for defendant in error.
MR. JusTIcE DAY, after making the foregoing statement of
facts, delivered the opinion of the court.

It is evident from the foregoing statement of facts that the
controversy, as it appeared in the United States District Court,
was resolved into the question whether Adolfo Sixto, who had
been duly adjudged the co-heir with Maria Belen of Manuel

SIXTO v. SARRIA.
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Sixto, deceased, was entitled to recover one-half of the amount
due on the mortgage debt which the defendant Sarria claimed
to have discharged by legal payments. The recovery sought
was for one-half of the four installments of purchase money
due respectively on the fifteenth day of May m the years
from 1893 until 1896, inclusive. The defendant interposed
different defenses to different installments of the debt. We
will proceed to consider them, together with the charge and
rulings of the court concerning the same.
Referring to the first and second installments, we find it to
be the contention of the plaintiff in error that Maria Belen,
having been adjudged heir ab tntestato under a decree which
expressly reserved the rights of third parties, no payment
could have been lawfully made to her as against the rights of
the plaintiff in error, and that if any such payment was made
it was subject to the risk that the subsequent established
rights of the plaintiff m error might entitle him to recover
from Sarria one-half of such payments. Upon this subject
the court charged the jury"On February 15, 1894, she [Maria Belen] having been declared the heir, the entry was made of that fact m the registry (of property). I say to you as a matter of law, that that
declaration of her heirship was without prejudice to the rights
of third parties-and that meant that if any other person
showed himself afterwards to be an heir he was entitled to a
proper proportion of the estate, but so far as a collection of
debts, and so far as a proper attention to the assets were concerned and the control of them, she became entitled to attend
to that."
Upon the same subject the plaintiff in error had requested
the court to charge.
"As the ex parte decree declaring Belen Sixto the heir of
Manuel Sixto expressly saved the rights of third parties, that
was notice to the defendant that any payment made to her
was made at his peril as against the other true heirs; and, as.
defendant was not required by any legal authority to pay the

OCTOBER TERMT, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

first two payments to Belen Sixto, and as the plaintiff is
shown in truth to have been an equal heir with Belen Sixto,
the plaintiff is entitled to recover one-half of those two payments."
So far as this contention is concerned, we think the court
below was right. The sections of the Code of Porto Rico
(War Department translation), under which Maria Belen was
declared the heir ab mntestato of Manuel Sixto, are as follows:
"976. After the measures indispensable for the security of
the property prescribed in the foregoing section have been
taken, and without prejudice to including in the same proceedings the making of the inventory, the designation of heirs
ab ntestato shall be proceeded with in a separate record.
"977 This designation may also be made at the instance
of the interested parties, without the necessity of previously
taking the steps mentioned, m cases in which they are not
necessary and in which the institution of intestate proceedings is not requested.
" 978. Heirs ab ntestato, who are descendants of the deceased, may obtain a declaration of their rights by proving,
with the proper documents or with the evidence obtainable,
the death of the person whose estate is in question, their relationship to the same, and with the evidence of witnesses
that said person died intestate, and that they, or the persons
whom they designate, are his only heirs.
"The services of a solicitor or attorney are not necessary m
order to present this claim.
"979. The deputy public prosecutor shall be cited to appear at said proceeding, to whom the record shall afterward
be referred for the period of six days for his report thereon.
"Should he find the proof insufficient, a hearing shall be
granted to the interested parties in order that they may cure
the defect.
"When the deputy public prosecutor requests it, or the
judge considers it necessary, the documents presented shall be
compared with the originals.

SIXTO v. SARRIA.
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"980. When the foregoing steps have been taken. the judge
shall, without further proceedings, make a ruling designating
the heirs ab sntestato should he deem it proper, or he may refuse
to make such declaration, reserving the rights of the claimants
to institute an ordinary action. This ruling may be appealed
from both for review and a stay of proceedings.
"1000. After the declaration of heirs ab 'ntestato has been
made, by a final judgment or ruling, the proceedings shall be
continued according to the procedure prescribed for testamentary proceedings.
"1001. The judge shall order that there be delivered to the
heirs instituted all the property, books, and papers of the intestate, and that the administrator render an account of his
administration to them, the judicial intervention ceasing."
It is argued that this appointment of the heir ab zntestato
is subject to the limitation that the rights of the heir are not
fixed until five years have elapsed from the date of the designation by the court proceedings, and in support of this contention
certain articles of the Mortgage Law of Porto Rico are cited.
"2. In the registries mentioned in the preceding article shall
be recorded.
"1. Instruments transferring or declaring ownership of
realty, or of property rights thereto.
"2. Instruments by which rights of use, use and occupancy,
emphyteusis, mortgage, annuity, servitudes, and any others
by which states are created, acknowledged modified or extinguished.
"23. The instruments mentioned m articles 2 and 5, which
are not duly recorded or entered in the registry, cannot prejudice third persons.
"The record of real property and property rights, acquired
through an inheritance or legacy, shall not prejudice third
persons until five years have elapsed since the date thereof,
excepting m cases of testate or intestate inheritances, legacies
and additions thereto, when left to legal heirs.
"381. Property acquired through inheritance or legacy can-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. s.

not be cleared until five years have elapsed from the date of
their record in the registry"
But we think this limitation of five years was intended to
permit such heirs at law or parties beneficially interested in
the estate to assert their rights as against the heir and the
property in his hands, and to prevent its transfer except sub3ect to the right of such persons to assert their claims within
the permitted limitation. We are here dealing with the right
to collect the assets, and the Code provides, sees. 1000, 1001,
that after the designation of the heir or heirs ab 'intestatoby
a final judgment or ruling of the court the proceedings shall
be continued according to the procedure prescribed for testamentary proceedings, and the judge may order that all the
property, books and papers of the intestate be turned over
to the heirs, and that the administrator render his account
of his administration of the estate, and thereupon judicial intervention shall cease. It seems to us manifest that the effect of these proceedings is to permit the heir ab sntestato,
after such final decision, to receive and collect the estate.
It may be that others will establish an interest in the property for which the heir will have to respond, and it is specially provided that, for the purpose of transfer, property shall
not be deemed clear until after five years have elapsed. But
this does not require that the collection of debts shall be delayed for a like period or that they shall be paid to the legally declared heir or heirs, upon pain of being required to
respond to others who may within the limitation permitted
establish a right to the property Such construction would
seem to be unreasonable, and we are cited to no authority
that goes to that extent. It is opposed to the practice of the
civil law upon which the Code of Porto Rico is based, in
which system the heir by intestacy corresponded with the
common law administrator, except that the Roman heir was
entitled to administer both the real and personal estate.
Story on Conflict of laws, ยง508.
In the present case the first installment was due on May 15,

SIXTO v. SARRIA.
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

1893, and was paid into court of first instance according to
its order and a receipt given therefor under the seal of the
court on June 22, 1893. This was done before any proceedings were instituted by the plaintiff m error. The payment
was made under the order of the court, and we see no reason
why the defendant in error should not be discharged thereby
As to the second installment, other considerations apply
Sarria testified that while this installment fell due on May 15,
1894, he paid the same on April 1, 1894, to Maria Belen, winch
payment, he says, was solenmzed by a notarial act duly acknowledged. As to this payment, the court in its charge took
the view that the contentious suit of Adolfo Sixto was not
commenced until April 4, 1894, of which fact Sarria was not
notified until June 5, 1894, and therefore Maria Belen had the
right to collect this payment. The suit of April 4, 1894, was
the one begun by Adolfo Sixto after the decision against him
in the court of first instance, holding that he could only contest the right of Maria Belen by a contentious proceeding,
from which the plaintiff in error took an appeal, but abandoned the same, and on April 4, 1894, amended the suit to a
contentious proceeding, making Maria Belen a party defendant, and seeking for an order to the registrar to make a
cautionary order touching the property in controversy, and
also an order to the defendant in error reqiring him to retain
at the disposition of the court whatever sums he owed to
the estate of Manuel Sixto, deceased. On the day of the beginning of this contentious suit, Sarria paid to Maria Belen,
anticipating the maturity of the installment by more than a
month, the amount winch would have fallen due on the fifteenth day of May following.
We think that, in view of the testimony produced, the
validity of this payment should have been submitted to the
jury under proper instructions. The plaintiff testified that he
was known to the defendant, and that the latter was well
aware that he was a son of Manuel Sixto, deceased. The
proceeding to declare his rights had been begun. It is evident

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

from a letter written to him on November 11, 1892, by Maria
Belen, that she recognized the plaintiff in error as her brother,
for m this letter she announces the death of "our beloved
father," subscribed herself as "sister," and requests Sixto to
come over to Vieques at once, as his presence was necessary
m order to collect money coming from the estate. Under
these circumstances, the question of whether Sarria had notice
of the plaintiff in error's rights and demands, and whether this
was a valid payment, or was made in anticipation of the possible claims of Adolfo Sixto, with intent to deprive hun of his
rights, should have been left to the jury, instead of the instruction given which practically required a finding for the defendant m error.
As to the third and fourth installments, the defendant claims
to have paid these to one Roig. It appears that these alleged
payments to Roig were evidenced by certain notarial instruments, which became of record m the office of the registrar of
deeds, and, as is recited in that record, Roig appears to have
been the declared purchaser of the third and fourth installment by assignment from Maria Belen, and the court of first
instance, on April 25, 1896, at the instance of Sarria, permitted
him to withdraw the third installment, and declared IRoig entitled to collect the third and fourth installments. Upon this
subject the court charged the jury"
"In this contentious suit by Adolfo Sixto against Belen,
this defendant, Sarria, was ordered on June 2, 1894, to pay
into court whatever money he might be owing. That order
was served on Sarria on June 5, 1894, and afterwards that
court decided that Sixto, the plaintiff in this suit, was not
entitled to attach this money He obtained an appeal from
that judgment, but not from that portion of it that canceled
the annotation made in the registry of deeds of the attachment
of that fund. Subsequently, on November 17, 1894, an appeal
was allowed in the upper court from that portion of it, but
no notice was given as to Sarria, who was merely a garnishee
in the suit, and who had received no notice not to pay over

SIXTO v. SARRIA.
196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

the money until the lower court decided whether he had the
right to pay it over. Between the time the court decided the
attachment and the time the appeal was allowed in the upper
court, Belen Sixto assigned to Roig the third and fourth installments. I say to you, as a matter of law, that there was
nothing to hinder her from doing that at that time, she had,
in law, the right to do it."
The counsel for the plaintiff requested the court, upon the
same subject, to charge.
"As it is shown by the uncontradicted evidence that the
judge of the court of first instance of Humacao was entirely
without authority or jurisdiction to issue his order on August 30, 1894, directing the registrar to make annotation on
his books of said order, said order to the registrar was void
and the annotation made by the registrar was void, and the
former annotation remained in force, which was notice to all
the world, including this-defendant, that the plaintiff had an
interest in those payments such as might be declared by the
court, and the court having afterwards decided that the
plaintiff here is entitled to a one-half interest in said estate,
the plaintiff is now entitled to recover one-half of the last two
payments, with interest."
It appears that Adolfo Sixto was not a party to the suit
between Roig and Sarria, in which it is declared that Roig
was held entitled to recover the third installment, and if
Sarria had notice of the pendency of the suit to establish the
rights of Adolfo Sixto in such wise as to be bound by the result thereof, he could not prevent Sixto's recovering an interest in the property by wrongfully paying it over in the
proceedings to which the plaintiff in error was not a party
The court below seems to have given its charge upon this
subject upon the theory that the order of August 30, 1894,
was not appealed from in such wise as to prevent Sarria from
paying the third and fourth installments to the assignee Roig,
and it is said that he was merely a garnishee in the suit,
and had then received no notice not to pay over the money

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

196 U. S.

until the lower court had decided whether he had the right
to pay it over. The payment of the third and fourth installments was made to Roig by permitting Sarria, in the court
of first instance, to withdraw the installment which he had
paid into court under the order of June 2, 1894. These installments were paid to Roig on May 16, 1896, but in the
attitude of the suit then pending to establish the rights of
Adolfo Sixto, and Sarria's knowledge thereof, could the latter
legally make these payments so as to conclude the rights of
the plaintiff in error ? It is true that the lower court on August 30, 1894, had held in favor of Maria Belen, vacating the
notice sent to Sarria and the cautionary notices to the registrar, and the plaintiff in error had prayed an appeal "in both
effects," 7..e., for a review of the order and a stay of proceedings, but was refused an appeal in the latter aspect, from
which refusal he also appealed, and this was the attitude of
the case at the time of the alleged purchase by Roig on September 11, 1894. On November 17, 1894, the audiencia considered the application of Sixto for the enlargement of the
appeal, and held that such allowance was wrongfully denied
in the lower court, and ordered that the appeal be " considered as having been taken for both effects." On January 8, 1895, Sarria was notified of this order, and appeared
and asked that a clear and detailed statement be given him
"as to what he was to comply with." Thereupon a new explanatory order was directed to Sarria, informing him that
the previous requisition meant the ratification of the one previously directed to him by the court, "in order that the sums
which he owed from that time to Mr. Manuel Sixto should
not be delivered by him except to the court in order to deposit the same in the royal treasury" This order was duly
served on Sarria on February 5, 1895.
On November 29, 1895, the audiencia heard the appeal, and,
reversing the order of August 30, declared the order of June 2,
1894, in full force, whereby the cautionary entry was ordered
to be made by the registrar of property, and the notification

SIXTO v. SARRIA.
196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

ordered to Sarria to hold the payments on the mortgage or pay
the same into the treasury, to abide the order of the court.
The registrar refused to comply, assigning as a reason that
the encumbrance had been assigned to third parties and
that the mortgage law did not justify such an order. Subsequent proceedings resulted in the final decree of the military
court deciding the merits of the controversy in favor of Sixto.
The decision of November 29, 1895, was also notified to Sarria,
and on May 4, 1896, the entry of the court discloses:
"On May 4, 1896, appeared Mr. Laureano Sarria y Gonzalez
and stated. that, having received notice that the installment
of the mortgage had been transferred to Mr. Antonio Roig,
who has recorded said transfer in the registry of property, and
supposing that he will proceed to collect the same judicially, as
he did the previous installment, he is unable to accept the notification, and he will appear before the audiencia in the premises."
Over the objection of the plaintiff in error, Sarria was permitted to testify that he paid the installment to Roig by order of the audienca. But the plaintiff in error was not a party
to such proceeding, if it had been legally proved, and of course
could not be concluded by it. On being notified that the order of June 2, 1894, was in full force, requiring him to hold
the funds, while Sarria says he is unable to accept the notification, he declares "he will appear before the audiencia m the
premises." Instead of so doing, unless the appearance in the
Roig case can be so considered, he made application in the
court of first instance for a release of the deposited installment in oraer to pay it to Roig, and that court made the order, although it had been notified of the decision of the audiencia of November 29, 1895. This order could have no effect
on the rights of the plaintiff in error, nor can it protect Sarria,
who acted in the face of knowledge of the decision of the
higher court instead of appearing in that court at the suit of
Sixto, and having the rights of Roig and the contesting heirs
determined. We conclude that the plaintiff in error had the
right to recover his share of the third and fourth installments,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

notwithstanding the alleged transfers and payments to Roig,
and the alleged decree of the audiencia m the proceeding to
which Sixto was not a party
For error m the court's charge as to the second, third and fourth
installments, the 3udgment will be reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings consistent with ths opnon.

FULLERTON v. TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CRIMINAL APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
TEXAS.
No. 112. Argued December 16, 190.-Decided January 9,1905.

It is too late to raise a Federal question by petition for rehearing in the
Supreme Court of a State after that court has pronounced its final decision unless it appears that the court entertained the petition and disposed of the question.
The certificate of the presiding judge of the Supreme Court of the State, made

after the decision, to the effect that a Federal question was considered and
decided adversely to plaintiff in error, cannot in itself confer junsdiction
on this court; and on the face of this record and from the opinions the
reasonable inference is that the application for rehearing may have been
denied in the mere exercise of discretion, or the alleged constitutional
question was not passed on in terms because not suggested until too late.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr William W Griffin, with whom Mr A. D Englesman
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr C. K. Bell, Attorney General of the State of Texas,

appeared for defendant in error but did not make any argument or file any brief.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.
Fullerton was charged by information with unlawfully conducting, carrying on and transacting the business of dealing
m futures m cotton, grain, etc., and unlawfully keeping a
bucket shop, so called, "Where future contracts were then and

