HUNT v. SPRINGFIELD FIRE & MARINE INS. CO.
196 U. S.

47

Statement of the Case.

burden was upon the defendant to satisfy the jury by a preponderance of testimony that he was at the time of executing the will of sound mind. There was no error in this
instruction.
There were also a large number of exceptions taken to the
admission or exclusion of testimony and to the charge of the
court, but to consider them in detail would subserve no useful purpose. We have examined them carefully, and have

come to the conclusion that there was no ruling of the court
of which the plaintiffs were entitled to complain. The evidence of insanity was very slight, and there was no legal tes-

timony to show that the will was executed under the pressure
of an undue influence.

The judgment of the Court of Appeals is, therefore,
Alfirmed.

HUNT v. SPRINGFIELD FIRE AND MARINE INSURANCE COMPANY
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Nto. 65. Argued December 1, 2, 1904.-Decided December 19, 190.

A policy of insurance provided that it should be void if the interest of the
insured was other than the unconditional and sole ownership or if the property were encumbered by a chattel mortgage. It was in fact subject to
certain trust deeds which the insured claimed after loss were different instruments in law. Held, that:
A deed of trust and a chattel mortgage with power of sale are practically
one and the same instrument as understood in the District of Columbia.
The rule that in case of attempted forfeiture if the policy be fairly susceptible of two constructions the one will be adopted which is more favorable
to the insured was inapplicable to this case.
The contract of an insurance company is a personal one with the assured
and it is not bound to accept any other person to whom the latter may
transfer the property.

THIS was an action to recover on a policy of insurance upon
household furniture and ornaments.

Defense. That it was provided that the policy should be

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

void if the interest of the insured was other than the unconditional and sole ownership of the property insured, or if the
"said property should be or become encumbered by a chattel
mortgage," when in fact it was subject, at the time the policy
was written, to three trust deeds to secure the payment of
various sums of money Plaintiff demurred to the pleas setting
up this defense. The court overruled the demurrer, entered
judgment for the defendant, which was affirmed by the Court
of Appeals. 20 D C. App. 48.
Mr D W Baker and Mr John C Gittzngs for plaintiff m
error*
If the policy is so drawn as to require interpretation and
to be fairly susceptible of two different constructions, the one
will be adopted which is most favorable to the insured. Thompson v Insurance Company, 136 U S. 296, Knickerbocker Life
Ins. Co. v Norton, 96 U S. 246, Kansas City Bank v Fire
Insurance Co., 95 U S. 673, Continental Ins. Co. v Vanlue,
126 Indiana, 410, McMaster v New York Life Ins. Co., 183
U S. 26, 40.
As to difference between a mortgage and a deed of trust,
see Charles v Clagett, 3 Maryland, 82, Bank of Commerce v
Lannahan, 45 Maryland, 396, 407, Stanhope v Dodge, 52
Maryland, 490; Harrison v Annapolis & Elkrdge R. R. Co.,
50 Maryland, 490.
Mr Andrew B Duvall for defendant in error.
MR.

JusTicE

BRowN,

after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The sole question presented by the record m this case is
whether the provision in the policy for the unconditional
ownership of the property by the plaintiff, and for the nonexistence of any chattel mortgage thereon, was broken by
certain trust deeds to secure the payment of money in each
case.
Plaintiff relies upon the familiar principle of law that the

HUNT v. SPRINGFIELD FIRE & MARINE INS. CO.
196 U. S.

49

Opimon of the Court.

conditions of a policy of insurance, prepared as they are by
the company, and virtually thrust upon the insured, frequently without his knowledge, must be construed strictly,
and while the legal effect of a chattel mortgage and of a deed
of trust to secure the payment of money may be practically
the same, they are in law different instruments; and that a
condition against one is not broken by the existence of the
other. We recognize the rule laid down by this court in
Thompson v Phen?.x Insurance Company, 136 U. S. 287, that
in case of attempted forfeiture, if the policy be fairly susceptible of two constructions, the one will be adopted which is more
favorable to the insured. This rule was reiterated in McMaster v New York Insurance Company, 183 U S. 25, but we
cannot recognize it as applicable to this case.
A deed of trust and chattel mortgage with power of sale are
practically one and the same instrument, as understood in this
District. In the language of Mr. Justice Morris, in speaking
of mortgages of real estate in Middleton v Parke, 3 D C. App.
149"
"The deed of trust is the only form of mortgage that has
been in general use in the District of Columbia for many years.
The common law mortgage is practically unknown with us;
and every one understands that, when a mortgage of real
estate here is spoken of, the deed of trust is what is intended.
The deed of trust is here used as the equivalent of a
mortgage, and so the term is universally used by the community Indeed, while a mortgage is not necessarily perhaps
a deed of trust, a deed of trust to secure the loan of money is
necessarily a mortgage."
It was said by this court in Shillaber v Robinson, 97 U S.
68, 78, that "if there is a power of sale, whether in the creditor
or in some third person to whom the conveyance is made for
that purpose, it is still in effect a mortgage, though in form a
deed of trust, and may be foreclosed by sale in pursuance of
the terms in which the power is conferred, or by suit in chancery "
VOL. cxOvi--4

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

196 U. S.

The legal effect of the two instruments has been recognized
as practically the same in several cases in this and other courts.
Platt 'v Unon Pacific R. R. Co., 99 U S. 48, 57, Palmer v
Gurnsey, 7 Wend. 248, Eaton v Whittng, 3 Pick. 484, Wheeler
& Wilson Mfg. Co. v Howard, 28 Fed. Rep. 741, Bartlett v
Teah, 1 McCrary, 176, Southern Pacific R. R. Co. v Doyle, 11
Fed. Rep. 253, McLane v Paschal,47 Texas, 365.
There may be cases under particular statutes recognizing
a difference between them in reference to the application of
the recording laws, as appears to be the case in Maryland,
Charlesv Clagett, 3 Maryland, 82, but in their essential features
and m their methods of enforcement they are practically
identical. Both are transfers conditioned upon the payment
of a sum of money; both are enforceable in the same manner,
and the difference between them is one of name rather than
substance. The provision in the policy is one for the protection of the insurer, who is entitled, if he insists upon it in his
questions, to be apprised of any fact which qualifies or limits
the interest of the insured in the property, and would naturally
tend to diminish the precautions he might take against its
destruction by fire.
In passing upon the identity of the two instruments in this
case we may properly refer to the further provision of the
policy that the interest of the insured must be an unconditional and sole ownership. While the breach of this condition is not specifically urged in the briefs, we may treat it as
explanatory of the other condition against the existence of
chattel mortgage. The company evidently intended by this
provision to protect itself against conditional transfers of every
kind. The contract of the company is a personal one with the
insured and it is not bound to accept any other person to whom
the latter may transfer the property
The conditions of the policy in this case were broken by the
trust deeds, and the judgment of the court below is, therefore,
Affirmed.

