OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

sense, compensated for the services alleged to have been rendered in violation of the statute, until by payment of the
checks by the St. Louis bank he was relieved of all liability to
the Riggs National Bank arismg from his indorsing the checks
to it. The accused is to be regarded as having received, at
St. Louis, compensation for his services, because the check
made in his behalf was paid there to his representative. The
offense was, therefore, consummated at that city, and the
Federal Court at St. Louis had jurisdiction.
Nor, in my opinion, does the record show any error, in respect of instructions that were to the substantial prejudice of
the accused, no error for which the judgment should be reversed.
It seems to me that 'in reversing the judgment upon the
grounds stated in the opinion the court has sacrificed substance to mere form. The result, I submit, well illustrates
the familiar maxim. Qui haeret n litera haeret mn cortice.

UNITED STATES v. HARVEY STEEL COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 275. Argued January 3,4,190M.-Decided January 16, 1906.

The United States made a contract with the steel company for the use of
a process described as patented. The contract provided that m case it
should at any time be judicially decided "that the company was not
legally entitled under the patent to the process and the product the payment of royalties should cease. In a suit by the company for royalties
the United States attempted to deny the validity of the patent while
admitting there was no outstanding decision against it. Held, that this
defense was not open.
Held further, that under the circumstances of this case, the contract, properly
construed, extended to the process actually used even if it vaned somewhat from that described m the patent.

Tim facts are stated ii! the opinion.

UNITED STATES v. HARVEY STEEL CO.
196 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

Mr Assistant Attorney General Pradt for the United States:
The Court of Claims ignored the fact that the contract called
for the steel company to furnish a patented process and that
m so doing it not only warranted the validity of the patent
but made an express agreement that there should be no liability on the part of the United States for royalties if the
patent were judicially declared invalid. There is no estoppel
against the United States asserting that the patent is invalid.
Through the adoption of the process by the Government the
company not only received $96,000 but the value of the process
was demonstrated and made known to the world and thus
enabled the company to make contracts with foreign governments.
The contention of claimant that a licensee cannot set up the
invalidity of the patent does not apply to this case. Walker
on Patents, 3d ed. ยง307 Such a holding would practically
nullify the principal provision of the contract. Nor is it true
that the validity of the patent can only be questioned in an
action for infringement. Such an action is impossible in this
case as the only users of this patent in this country are those
building ships for this Government. The clause cannot properly be construed to apply to a case in which the manufacture
of armor plate for the United States should be enjoined in an
action for mfrmgement by parties claiming under some patent,
and asserting that the Harvey patent was invalid, because if
the agents of the United States were thus enjoined, that fact
itself would amount to an eviction and bring the contract to
an end and thus render the clause superfluous and useless.
Walker on Patents, 3d ed. ยง 307, Am. Electrc Co. v Gas Company, 47 Fed. Rep. 43, Consumers' Gas Co. v Electrw Co., 50
Fed. Rep. 778. The essential element in estoppel that the
claimant has changed his position for the worse is wanting.
If the patent was valid it was so narrow as not to include
the process actually used.
There is no ambiguity in the contract and it is not permissible
to consider circumstances and negotiations leading up to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Appellee.

196 U. S.

contract. 17 Am. & Eng. Ency of Law, 2d ed., 23, Spmngsteen v Samson, 32 N. Y 703, Muldoon v Deline, 135 N. Y
150; Railroad Co. v Trimble, 10 Wall. 367, Dams v Shafer,
50 Fed. Rep. 764,
Mr James R. Soley and Mr Frederw H. Betts for appellee:
The court below did not err in refusing to enter into an
examination of the state of the prior art to determine whether
the Harvey patent was valid or invalid. A party who has
contracted to pay royalties for the use of a patented process
with full knowledge of what he was contracting for, and who
has had the benefit of the use of such process, cannot resist
payment of such royalty on the plea that the patent granted
is invalid. A license under a patent never implies a warranty
of validity 3 Robinson on Patents, 692, Walker on Patents,
4th ed., 305, Stott v Rutherford, 92 U S. 107, Kinsman v
Parkhurst,18 How 289; Eureka Co. v Bailey Co., 11 Wall. 488,
Crossley v Dixon, 10 H. of L. Cas. 306.
The validity of a patent cannot be determined in a suit
against licensee for royalties, nor can the holder of a license
deny the validity of a patent which he enjoys under it. Moore
v Boiler Co., 84 Fed. Rep. 346, Bsrdsall v Perego, 5 Blatch.
251, Sargent v Lamed, 2 Curtis, 340; Marsh v Dodge, 41 Hun,
278, Bartlett v Holbrook, 1 Gray, 118, Marston v Sweet, 66
N. Y 207, Pope Mfg. Co. v Owsley, 27 Fed. Rep. 105, Marsh
v HarrisCo., 63 Wisconsin, 283, Magw Ruffle Co. v Elm City
Co., 13 Blatch. 151.
In order to construe the clause relating to the validity of
the patent as requested by the Government it would be necessary to disregard all well settled rules of construction. Charter
Gas Engine Co. v Charter, 47 Ill. App. 36.
No contract for the use of a patent right upon the payment
of royalties would create a monopoly unless it was a contract
for an excluswve use, which this was not. But the principle
that a licensee, acting under a license, is estopped from setting
up the invalidity of the patent as a defense in a suit for royalties

UINITED STATES v. HARVEY STEEL CO.
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

is just as applicable whether the license is for the exclusive use
or for any partial use, or, as in this case, for such use as the
licensee desired. Marston v Swett, 82 N. Y 526, 533.
The Court of Claims committed no error in declining to
examine the prior art m order to construe the patent, as m an
action for infringement. The Government has admitted it
used the Harvey process. Greenleaf on Evidence, 6th ed.,
207, and it well knew what it had contracted for and what it
received by its license and is now estopped from denying it
used the process. Eureka Co. v Bailey Co., 11 Wall. 492,
Hobbe v Smith, 27 Fed. Rep. 659; Andrews v Landers, 72
Fed. Rep. 670; Sproull v Pratt & Whitney, 97 Fed. Rep. 809.
The Court of Claims, in fact, found that the process used was
that described in the Harvey patent.
Mn.

JusTIE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a claim for royalties upon a contract made between
the parties to the suit under the following circumstances:
The Harvey Steel Company is the owner of a patent, numbered 460,262, for a process for hardening armor plates and
for armor plates. After careful experiments, made by the
Navy Department, before the patent was granted, a contract
was made on March 21, 1892, the material elements of which
are these. It recited that the company was the owner of the
patented rights to a process "known as the 'Harvey process'
for the treatment of armor plate for use in the construction of
vessels;" an agreement that armor plate "treated under the
said 'Harvey process' " shall be applied to certain vessels; the
previous giving of an option to the Navy Department "of purchasing the right to use and employ the 'Harvey process' for
treating armor plates, as follows: 'We hereby agree to give to
the Navy Department an option for the purchase of the application of the Harvey process for treating armor plates, which
was tested at the Naval Ordnance Proving Ground, Annapolis,
Md., February 14, 1891/" on terms set forth, one of which

OCTOBER TERMA,

1904.

Opimon of the Court.

196 U. S.

was that Harvey, the inventor, should furnish all details in his
possession, or which he might develop in the perfection of his
methods; the acceptance of the offer by the Navy Department; and an agreement by the United States to pay the expense of applying "the said process," etc. The contract then
went on to agree that the United States, upon the terms stated,
might use "the herembefore-mentioned process known as the
'Harvey process,"' gave the company a royalty of one-half of
one cent a pound up to $75,000, when the royalty was to
cease, and stated other terms.
This contract had conditions for further tests, etc. Numerous further experiments were made, and on October 8, 1892,
the company was informed by letter that "the Harvey process
for armor plate has been definitely adopted by the Navy Department." In pursuance of the offer mentioned in the contract, the Navy Department required and received from
Harvey a revelation of the secret process and improvements,
and thereafter, on April 12, 1893, the parties made a new
contract upon which this suit is brought. This recited, as
before, that the company was owner of the patented rights to
a process "known as the Harvey process," and referred to -the
patent by number and date. It then recited the making of the
agreement of March 21, 1892, "whereby the party of the first
part granted to the party of the second part the right to use
and employ the Harvey process aforesaid," etc. It then canceled the old contract, and agreed that, in consideration of
$96,056.46 royalty, the United States might use "the aforesaid
Harvey process" for all naval vessels authorized by Congress
up to and including July 19, 1892, and further, that it might
use the "aforesaid Harvey process" upon vessels authorized
after that date, "paying therefor" a half a cent a pound. The
company covenanted to hold the United States harmless from
further claims, and from demands on account of alleged infringement of "patented rights appertaining to said process;"
to furnish full information regarding the composition and application of the compounds employed in the Harvey process,

UNITED STATES v. HARVEY STEELCO.
196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

and all improvements which it might make upon "said process
as covered by the aforesaid letters patent," and that the
United States might adopt and use such improvements.
Finally, it was agreed that "in case it should at any time be
judicially decided that the party of the first part is not legally
entitled, under the leterspTtent aforesaid, to own and control
the exclusive right to the use and employment of said process,
and the decrementally hardened armor plates produced thereunder, as set forth m the letters patent aforesaid, then the
payment of royalty under the terms of this agreement shall
cease, and all sums- of money due the party of the first part
from the party of the second part, as royalty for the use and
employment of said process, and armor plates, as aforesaid,
shall become the property of the party of the second part."
The United States has built battle ships armored by the
flarvey process communiedted to it, and, subject to the questions which will be mentioned, by the terms of the contract
there was due a royalty of sixty thousand eight hundred and
six dollars and forty-five cents, to which sum the Court of
Claims found the claimant entitled. 38 C. Cl. 662. It never
has been judicially decided that the claimant has not the rights
mentioned m the last quoted clause of the contract. The7
United States asked additional findings, which, it now contends,
would establish that the patent was mvalid, or, if valid, valid
only if restricted to the use of a heat above 3100' Fahrenheit,
in which case the patent was not used by the United States.
These findings were refused as immaterial and the United
States appealed. The main question is whether, under the
last quoted clause of the contract, the United States can set
up the invalidity of the patent m this suit. It is argued also
that the United States ought to have been allowed to show
that it had not used the patent, properly construed, although
it is not denied that it has used the process communicated to
it and known in common speech as the Harvey process.
It is not argued that there was a technical entire failure of
consideration. The claimant was under continuing obliga-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

tiys, which it is not suggested that it did not perform or is not
still peiforming, and one of which, the imparting of its secret
information and improvements, it had performed under the
original agreement, out of which the last contract sprang. The
argument is put mainly cn -the construction of the clause
quoted, coupled with the further argument- that the- United
States ought not to be estopped as licensee to deny the validity
of the patent because it is not a vendor but simply a user of
the patented article, and therefore has not enjoyed the advantage of a practical monopoly, as a seller might have enjoyed it even if the patent turned out to be bad. This distinction between sale and use, even for a non-competitive
purpoe, does not impress us.- So far as the practical advantage secured is matter for cbnsideration, whether a thing
made under a patent supposed to be valid, is used or sold, it
equally may be assumed that the thing would not have been
used or sold but for the license from the patentee. We regard
the clause in the contract as the measure of the appellant's
rightThe words of the condition on which the payment of,royalty
was to cease, taken in their natural and literal sense, do not
mean what the Government says. A plea of that condition,
to satisfy the words "in case it should at any time be judicially
decided" that the patent was bad, would have to be that it had
been decided to that effect. It would not be enough to say
that the defendant thought the patent-bad, -and would like to
have the court decide so now. We see no reason to depart
from the literal meaning of the words. It is argued that so
construed they are very little good to the United States, since
private persons would not use the armor plates, and the more
the United States used them the larger would be the royalties
which the company received, so that it would have no motive,
even if it had a right, to sue the makers of the plate. It is answered that armor was made for foreign governments, and that
the makers were sued by the claimants in good faith, although,
as it turned out, the final decrees were entered by consent.

UNITED STATES v. HARVEY STEEL CO.
196 U. S.

Opmion of the Court.

And it is argued on the other hand that the Government's
construction would put the claimants at a great disadvantage,
and would be giving up all benefit of the patent at the moment
it was issued. We do not amplify the considerations of this
sort on one side or the other. They are too uncertain to have
much weight. The truth seems to be that the proviso is a
more or less well-known and conventional one in licenses,
Charter Gas Engine Co. v Charter, 47 Ill. App. 36, 51, not.a
special contrivance for the special case, and that fact alone is
enough to invalidate attempts to twist the meaning of the
words to the interest of either side. The proviso was inserted,
no doubt, on the assumption that a licensee, when sued for
royalties, is estopped to deny the validity of the patent which
he has been using, and to give him the benefit of litigation by
or against third persons, notwithstanding that rule.
We have somewhat more difficulty with the other question
mentioned. It is argued that the agreement was only to pay
for the use of the process covered by the patent named, and
that if the meaning of the parties was to cover anything
broader than the patent, even what was known in their speech
as the Harvey process, that meaning could be imported into
the contract only by reformation, not by construction of the
contract as it stands. But we are of opinion that this defense
also must fail. In the first place, it is not fully open on the
record. The findings asked had a different bearing. All that
were asked might have been made without necessitating a
judgment for the United States as matter of law and the court
believed that the difference between patent and process was
trivial. But we should hesitate to admit the defense in any
event. The argument is that at the time of the contract it was
supposed that the heat required for the process was greater
than that actually used, that the patent was valid only for a
process with the greater heat, and that the contract covers no
more than the patent. But the fact that the parties assumed
that the process used and intended to be used was covered by
the patent, works both ways. It shows that they thought

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opmon of the Court.

.196 U. S.

and meant that the agreement covered and should cover the
process actually used. We think that this can be gathered
from the agreement itself apart from the mere supposition of
the parties. The contract dealt with a process "known as the
Harvey process." It imported the speech of the parties and
the common speech of the time into the description of the
subject matter. The words, Harvey process, commonly are
put in quotation marks in the first contract, thus emphasizing
the adoption of common speech. They mean the. process
actually used. The contract states that it is dealing'with the
same thing that had been the subject of the former agreement.
That agreement further identified that subject as a process
which was tested at the Naval Ordnance Proving Ground. It
also identified it, it is true, as a patented process, but, if the
incompatibility of the two marks is more than trivial, as it was
regarded by the court which found the facts with which we
have to deal, the identification by personal familiarity and by
common speech is more pungent and immediate than that by
reference to a document couched m technical terms, which the
very argument for the United States declares not to have been
understood. It is like a reference to monuments in a deed.
As we have said, this identification by personal experiment
and by common speech is carried forward into the contract in
suit. The latter contract manifests on its face that it is dealing with a process actually in use, which requires the commumcation of practical knowledge and which further experience
may improve.
We have not thought it useful to do more than indicate the
line of thought which leads us to the conclusion that the claimant must prevail. We have confined ourselves to the dry
point of the law It might have been enough to say even less
and to affirm the judgment on the ground that the findings
asked and refused, so far as they were not refused because
not proved, were only grounds for further inferences, not special verdict establishing the defense as matter of law But
the fuller the statement should be made the more fully it would

ROONEY v. NORTH DAKOTA.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

appear that the United States was dealing with a matter upon
which it had all the knowledge that any one had, that it was
contracting for the use of a process, which, however much it
now may be impugned, the United States would not have
used when it did but for the communications of the claimant,
and that it was contracting for the process which it actually
used-a process which has revolutionized the naval armor of
the world.
Judgment affirmed.

ROONEY v. NORTH DAKOTA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH DAKOTA.
No.123.

Argued Jauuary 12,1905.-Decided January 23,1905.

By chapter 99, March 9, 1903, Laws of North Dakota, the statutes in force
when plaintiff in error committed the crime for which he was tried, and
when the verdict of guilty was pronounced were altered to the following
effect: Close confinement in the penitentiary for not less than six or more
than nine months after judgment and before execution was substituted
for confinement in the county jail for not less than three nor more than
six months after judgment and before execution, and hanging within an
inclosure at the penitentiary by the warden or his deputy was substituted
for hanging by the sheriff in the yard of the jail of the county in which
the conviction occurred.
Held that the changes looked at in the light of reason and common sense are
to be taken as favorable to the plaintiff in error, and that a statute which
mitigates the rigor of the law in force at the time the crime was committed cannot be regarded as ex post facto with reference to that crime.
Held that close confinement does not necessarily mean solitary confinement and the difference m phraseology between close confinement and
confinement is immaterial, each only meaning such custody as will insure
the production of the criminal at the time set for execution.
Held that the place of punishment by death -within the limits of the State
is not of practical consequence to the criminal.

THIS writ of error brings in question a final judgment of the
Supreme Court of the State of North Dakota, affirming the

