CASES ADJUDGED
IM THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.

JOHNSON v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY
SAME v. SAME.
ERROR AND

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 32, 87.

Argued October 31, 1904.-Decided December 19, 1904.

1. Statutes in derogation of the common law and penal statutes are not to
be construed so strictly as to defeat the obvious intention of Congress as
found in the language actually used according to its true and obvious
meaning.
2. Locomotive engines are included by the words "any car" contained in
the second section of the act of March 2, 1893, 27 Stat. 531, c. 196, requiring cars engaged in interstate commerce to be equipped with automatic couplers. And although they were also required by the first section
of the act to be equipped with power driving wheel brakes, the rule that
the expression of one thing excludes others does not apply, inasmuch as
there was a special reason for that requirement and in addition the same
necessity for automatic couplers existed as to them as in respect to other
cars.

3. A dining ear regularly engaged in interstate traffic does not cease to be
so when waiting for the train to make the next trip.
4. The equipment of ears with automatic couplers which will not automatically couple with each other so as to render it unnecessary for men
to go between the ears to couple and uncouple is not a compliance with
the law.
5. The act of March 2, 1903, 32 Stat. 943, c. 976, treats as correct the view
herein expressed and is declaratory thereof.

VOL. oxCvI-1

(1)

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

196 U. S.

brought this action in the District Court of the
First Judicial District of Utah against the Southern Pacific
Company to recover damages for injuries received while employed by that company as a brakeman. The case was removed to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Utah by defendant on the ground of diversity of
citizenship.
The facts were briefly these: August 5, 1900, Johnson was
acting as head brakeman on a freight tram of the Southern
Pacific Company, which was making its regular trip between
San Francisco, California, and Ogden, Utah. On reaching the
town of Promontory, Utah, Johnson was directed to uncouple
the engine from the train and couple it to a dining car, belonging to the company, which was standing on a side track, for
the purpose of turning the car around preparatory to its being
picked up and put on the next west-bound passenger tram.
The engine and the dining car were equipped, respectively, with
the Janney coupler and the Miller hook, so called, which would
not couple together automatically by impact, and it was,
therefore, necessary for Johnson, and he was ordered, to go
between the engine and the dining car, to accomplish the
coupling. In so doing Johnson's hand was caught between
the engine bumper and the dining car bumper and crushed,
which necessitated amputation of the hand above the wrist.
On the trial of the case, defendant, after plaintiff had rested,
moved the court to instruct the jury to find in its favor, which
motion was granted, and the jury found a verdict accordingly,
on which judgment was entered. Plaintiff carried the case to
the Circuit Court of -Appeals for the Eighth Circuit and the
judgment was affirmed. 117 Fed. Rep. 462.
JOHNSON

Mr W L. Magrnnss, with whom Mr L. A. Shaver and
Mr John M. Gitterman were on the brief, for petitioner and
plaintiff in errorThe act of Congress of March 2, 1893, in as far as it aims to
protect the lives and limbs of men, is remedial in its character,

JOHNSON v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO.
196 U. S'

3

Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

and should be so construed as to prevent the mischief and
advance the remedy C., M. & St. P R. R. v Voelker, 129
Fed. Rep. 522, Wall v Platt, 48 N. E. Rep. 270; Holy Tnnity
v United States, 143 U S. 457, Potter's Dwarris on Statutes,
234, Brady v Daly, 175 U S. 156, Reed v Northfield, 13 Pick.
94, Huntngton v Attrill, 146 U S. 665, United States v Lacher,
5 Wheat. 76, Am. Fur Co. v United States, 2 Pet. 358, United
States v Morrs, 14 Pet. 464, United States v Reese, 92 U S.
214, United States v Hartwell, 6 Wall. 385, United States v
Winn, 3 'Sumn. 209, United States v Mattock, 2 Sawy 148.
So construing the law, the word "car" must be held to be
used m section 2 of said act m a generic sense and as embracing a locomotive or a tender as well as the other cars composing a tram. This view is, moreover, sustained by definitions
in the standard dictionaries and also by decisions of the courts.
Flemingv Southern R. R., 131 N. Car. 476, East St. Louis R. R.
v O'Hara, 150 Illinois, 580; K. C., M. & B R. R. v Crocker,
9 Alabama, 412, Thomas v Ga. R. R., 38 Georgia, 222, New
York v Thrd Avenue R. R., 117 N. Y 444, 646, Benson v
Railraod Co., 75 Minnesota, 163.
Locomotives and tenders fall within the reason of the law,
as injury to or loss of life or limb of employ6s is as likely to
occur in coupling or uncoupling a locomotive or tender as in
case of cars of other descriptions. Winkler v P & R. R. R.,
53 Atl. Rep. 90; S. C., 4 Pennywell, 384.
Even though the locomotive or tender is not to be construed as a car, under sec. 2, the dining car was not equipped
so as to couple automatically by impact with the vehicle
it was intended to be coupled with, and was theref(re not
equipped as required by the act of Congress. B & 0 R. R.
v Baugh, 149 U S. 378, Mobile v Kimball, 102 U S. 691.
The history of the act of Congress shows that its purpose
was not to require cars to be maintained in a condition of
equipment with automatic couplers, but rather to govern the
equipments only at such times as it was necessary to couple
them together. 5th Annual R. Inter. Com. Comm., 1891,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

196 U. S.

apx. G, 6th Annual R., 1892, 69; 7th Annual R., 1893, 76,
10th Annual R., 1896, 94, 16th Annual R., 1902, 61, The
President's Annual Messages, 1889, 1890, 1891, 1892.
Automatic couplers were already in use when this act of
Congress was passed, and the evils that were to be remedied
were such as grew out of the want of interchangeability between different kinds of automatic couplers so that it is a
solecism to say that the statute requires the use of automatic
couplers.
Nor can such interpretation of the statute be justified by
its practical operation because the railroads of the country,
recognizing the necessity of regulations requiring coupling
appliances to be interchangeable, had adopted such regulations as a condition of receiving cars. See address of Mr.
Haines, Pres. Am. Ry Assn., at Hotel Brunswick, N. Y.,
1892, published in "American Railway Management."
A common carrier cannot be compelled to receive from, and
transport for, a connecting line a car defective in safety appliances. Oregon Short Line &c. v N P Ry. Co., 51 Fed. Rep.
465, Mich. Cong. Water Co. v Railway Co., 2 I. C. C. Rep. 594,
Railway Co. v Curti, 71 N. W Rep. 42, Railroad Co. v
Snyder, 45 N. E. Rep. 559, Wilson v Railroad Co., 129 Fed.
Rep. 774 (citing Railroad Co. v Wallace, 66 Fed. Rep. 506),
Railroad Co. v Mackey, 157 U S. 72, 91, Felton v Bullard,
94 Fed. Rep. 781.
Congress did not create a "coupler monopoly," because the
adoption of a type merely prescribed a condition. See Report
of Hearings before House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce in relation to the bill for protection of trainmen, Feb. 18, 1892, Hearing before Senate Committee on
Interstate Commerce, Feb. 10, 1892.
Before the enactment of the Safety Appliance Law the railroads had adopted a uniform interchangeable type of coupler.
See proceedings of Master Carbuilders' Assn., 1887, 1888 and
1894, Massachusetts R. R. Repts. for 1884, 1886, 1888, 1891.
The intent of the law is that the couplers actually used on

JOHNSON v. SOUTHIERN PACIFIC CO.
196 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

two cars must couple with each other automatically on impact.
To hold that the phrase, "couplers coupling automatically by
impact," means not couplers coupling with each other but
with other couplers not used, is to do violence to the natural
meaning of the words and to import into the statute language
which will, to a large extent,'render it nugatory A construction of a law contrary to the obvious meaning of its language
and which takes from under its operation a case clearly within
its reason, should not be indulged.
Automatic couplers were already in use when the act of
Congress was passed and the evils to be remedied were those
growing out of the want of interchangeability between the
different kinds of automatic couplers used rather than the
absence of such couplers.
A phrase, "any car used in moving interstate traffic," embraces a car regularly employed in that business until permanently withdrawn. A car being used in interstate traffic
between two termins, making trips back and forth, is employed in interstate traffic to the same extent while being
turned or prepared for a return trip as when actually en route.
Voelker v C., M. & St. P 1R. R., 116 Fed. Rep. 867, Pullman
Car Co. v Pennsylvania, 141 U S. 19, Crawford v N Y C
R. R., 10 Am. Neg. Rep. 166.
The construction by the court below of this phrase is too
narrow and would result in a divided jurisdiction. Under it,
while actually moving en route, the car would be subject to
regulation by Congress, but when it reaches its destination
and is being moved preparatory to its return, it will be subject to state regulation. Regulation cannot be in this way
"split up." It must be wholly in Congress or wholly in the
State. Hanley v Kansas City Southern By. Co., 187 U S.
620; Lord v S. S. Co., 102 U S. 541, Pacific Coast S. S. Co. v
R. R. Commisswners, 9 Sawyer, 253.
There is a distinction between a car or instrument used in
moving interstate commerce and the commerce itself. A car
used in interstate traffic is one thing and the point of time

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

196 U. S.

when the character of interstate commerce attaches to a
commodity is another. Coe v Errol, 116 U S. 525, and
others cited by defendants, distinguished.
The dining car was generally used in moving interstate
commerce and such general use renders it subject to the
Safety Appliance Act, although empty at the time of the accident. Voelker v Railway Co., 116 Fed. Rep. 867, 873, Crawford v Railroad Co., 10 Am. Neg. Rep. 166, The R. W Parsons,
191 U S. 17, The Old Natchez, 9 Fed. Rep. 476, The Daniel
Ball, 10 Wall. 557, Delaware & Hudson Canal Co. v Pennsylvania, 1 L. R. A. 232.
There is no distinction between a loaded car and an empty
car, as Congress was dealing with a vehicle. Gibbons v Ogden,
9 Wheat. 1, In re Lennon, 54 Fed. Rep. 746, Malott v Hood,
99 Ill. App. 360; Winkler v P & R. R. R., 53 Atl. Rep. 90.
None of the three things laid down in Kelley v Rhoads, 188
U S. 1, which would take a car out of interstate traffic, to wit:
an indefinite delay, (2) awaiting transportation at the commencement of the journey, (3) or waiting sale or delivery at
the termination, existed in this case.
The use of the Miller hook with the Janney coupler, because it greatly increased the danger, was negligence, and
should be left to the jury Greenlee v Ry. Co., 122 N. Car. 977,
982, Troxler v Ry. Co., 124 N. Car. 191, Mather v Rillston, 156
U S. 391, Railway Co. v Carlin, 111 Fed. Rep. 778, Dissenting opinion in Kilpatrwk v Railroad Co., 121 Fed. Rep. 16.
The question of contributory negligence was not considered
either in the Circuit Court or the Circuit Court of Appeals;
section 8 of the Safety Appliance Law expressly states that
any employ6 injured by reason of defective equipment shall
not be deemed to have assumed the risk. If there is any
question of contributory negligence it should be left to the
jury under proper instructions by the court. Greenlee v Ry.
Co., 122 N. Car. 977, Railroad Co. v Ives, 144 U S. 409;
Carson v Railroad, 46 S. E. Rep. 525.
The amendatory act of March 2, 1903, expressly providing,

JOHNSON v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO.
196 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

amongst other things, that the car coupler provision of section 2 of the original act shall apply to locomotives and
tenders as well as ordinary cars, is merely declaratory of the
intent of Congress in the original act and is a legislative
construction of that act.
The Attorney General and the Solicitor General for the United States:
The testimony shows that the engine "backed up" and the
tender was therefore -presented for the coupling. This is in
accordance with common usage and ordinary observation in
practical railroading. A tender is certainly a car; but either
a locomotive or a tender is a car within the meaning of section 2 of the act of March 2, 1893. The generic meaning of
"car" under the definitions and authorities includes engine
and tender. Winkler v P & R. Ry. Co., 53 At. Rep. 90;
East St. Louis Ry. Co. v O'Hara, 150 Illinois, 580; K. C.,
M. & B. R. R. Co. v Crocker, 9 Alabama, 412, Thomas v
Georgia R. R. &c. Co., 38 Georgia, 222, New York v Third
Ave. Ry. Co., 117 N. Y 404. The fact that the first section
of the act requires a locomotive engine to be equipped with a
power brake, and section 2 forbids the use of any car not
equipped for coupling as directed, ought not to exclude the
-full import of the term car in the second section, when the
general intent of Congress and the necessary and invariableuse of an engine or tender to make couplings are regarded.
Nor should the fact that part of the language of section 2 is
restricted to the conception of something drawn by the traction
power exclude the engine. The language is, "it shall be unlawful for any such common carrier to haul or permit to be
hauled or used on its lines," etc. Considering the evil and the
remedy, the words "or used" ought to be viewed as intentionally enlarging the category so as to include an engine,
which is of course more frequently used than any other vehicle
of a tram in moving traffic. Use is the word applied to an
engine in the first section.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Argument for the United States.

196 U. S.

It is significant that notwithstanding the opposing argument as to engines, this engine was properly equipped, the

dining car was in reality the offending thing. No engine of
the company at this time, either passenger or freight, was
furnished with a Miller hook. This in itself sharply accentuates the necessity for construing the law to include engines,
and the plain duty of supplying interchangeable appliances
between engines and ordinary cars.
The act of March 2, 1903, which extended the provisions of
the act of 1893 relating to automatic couplers, etc., to apply
to trains, locomotives, and tenders, did not change or enlarge
the earlier law, but should be viewed as a legislative construction and merely declaratory thereof. United States v Freeman, 3 How 556, Stockdale v Insurance Co., 20 Wall. 323,
Koshkonong v Burton, 104 U S. 668, Cope v Cope, 137 U S.
682, Bailey v Clark, 21 Wall. 284.
The provision that the act of 1903 should not take effect
until six months after its passage does not weaken this argument, because the suspension evidently related to the new
features introduced into the law as to the minimum number
of cars in a train to be operated by tram brakes. The suspension did not affect a case arising under the original law and
involving the meaning of the word "car" or the scope of the
automatic coupling requirement, because it was specifically
provided by the later act that nothing therein contained
should be construed to relieve any common carrier from the
liabilities or requirements of the act of 1893. At the very
least some cars must have been equipped as directed by the act
of 1893, and the act of 1903 was not intended to operate as a
further extension of time as to them. Did the act of 1903
mean that until September 1 of that year it was not necessary
to equip passenger and freight cars with couplers "coupling
automatically by impact, etc.?"
The requirement of the law was not complied with by the
equipment with couplers which would couple automatically
by impact with others of their own type, but which were not

JOHNSON v
196 U. S.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO.

Argument for the United States.

interchangeable with those actually presented. The test of
compliance is in the words "without the necessity of men
going between the ends of the cars." The loss of life and injuries to railroad employ6s due to the old link and pm couplings, and especially to the combination of these with patent
couplings not working together, and the dilemma as to interchanges of automatic couplers of different types, were clearly
in the mind of Congress at the time of the passage of the act
of 1893, as appears from an examination of the messages of
the President for the years 1889-1892 and from the reportsof Senate and House committees and the debates upon the
bill. These are proper to refer to in order to show the situation as it existed and was pressed upon the attention of Congress. American Net & Tunne Co. v Worthington, 141 U S.
468, Holy Trinity Church v United States, 143 U S. 457,
Dunlap v United States, 173 U S. 65, Downes v Bidwell, 182
U S. 244. The result was that Congress passed an act in
which ample provision was made to cover the difficulty and
to compel the railroads, whatever particular devices they respectively adopted, to act with such degree of uniformity that
the danger should be eliminated by the principle of interchangeability
The act is remedial and should be liberally construed. Taylor
v United States, 3 How 197, Clicquot v United States, 3 Wall.
114, United States v Hodson, 10 Wall. 395, Smythe v Fiske, 23
Wall. 374, United States v Stowell, 133 U S. 12. Even if it
should be conceded that the act is penal in a strict sense, yet
it should not be construed so strictly as to defeat the intention
of Congress; the construction should be fair and reasonable,
so as to effectuate the law rather than destroy it, and to avoid
absurd and unjust results. United States v Lacher, 134 U S.
624, United States v Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 76, and cases cited
on brief of plaintiff in error. But the act is not strictly penal,
it is hardly penal at all, it simply imposes a moderate fine,
which is to be recovered in a "suit "-that is, a civil action.
Atcheson v Everitt, 1 Cowp. 382, Ketland v The Cassius, 2

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Defendant m Error.

196 U. S.

Dall. 365, United States v La Vengeance, 3 Dall. 297, The
Sarah, 8 Wheat. 394.
The clause "without the necessity of men going between
the ends of the cars" applies to the act of coupling as well as
uncoupling. Chwago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co. v Voelker, 129 Fed. Rep. 522, Carson v Southern Ry. Co., 46 S. E.
Rep. 525.
The car was "used in moving interstate traffic," regularly
and continuously, as the evidence shows. That phrase of the
act does not refer merely to a single trip, nor contemplate that
a car shall be actually moving on an interstate journey at the
particular moment, but that it shall be ordinarily or customarily employed in that manner, as was the car m question.
There is nothing to show that the car was empty; on the contrary, the necessary presumptions are the other way The
statute applies to all cars, whether empty or loaded, and
whether temporarily delayed or actually en route, which are
"used" in interstate commerce. Malott v Hood, 99 Ill. App.
630; Kelley v Rhoads, 188 U S. 1, and cases cited by plaintiff
inerror.
Mr Maxwell Evarts, with whom Mr Martin L. Clardy and
Mr Henry G Herbel, were on the brief, for respondent and
defendant in error"
The dining car was not an interstate car, while it had been in
such use and might be thus used again. When it was not so
used it maintained its local character and did not come under
the act. The mere intention to make a commodity a subject
of interstate commerce does not of itself impress the article
with that character. Norfolk &c. Ry. v Commonwealth., 93
Virginia, 749, 752, Coe v Errol, 116 U S. 517, Turprn v
Burgess, 117 U S. 504, 507, Morgan Co. v Louisiana, 118
U S. 455, 465, Smith v Alabama, 124 U S. 465, 482, Kidd v
Pearson, 128 U S. 1, 20; Pullman Co. v Pennsylvania, 141
U S. 18, 25, Postal Tel. Co. v Adams, 155 U S. 688, 698,
Adams Express Co. v Ohw, 165 U S. 194, American Ref.

JOHNSON v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO.
196 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Trans. Co. v Hall, 174 U S. 70; Diamond Glue Co. v U S.
Glue Co., 187 U S. 611, 616, Diamond Match Co. v Ontonagon,
188 U S. 82, United States v Boyer, 85 Fed. Rep. 432, CottIng
v Stock Yards Co., 82 Fed. Rep. 839, 844, S. C., 183 U S. 79;
ChT., St. P &c. Ry. v Becker, 35 Fed. Rep. 883, Union Ref. &
Trans. Co. v Lynch, 18 Utah, 378, Winkley v Newton, 67
N. H. 80.
When the commodity has actually started the interstate
commerce feature commences. The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall.
557, 565.
There is a distinction between the commodity and the
vehicle. The character of the vehicle must be determined by
the destination of the commodity with which it is burdened,
or, if empty, the purpose for which the tram, of which it forms
a part, is being moved at the time of the alleged injury In
other words, it must either be loaded with interstate freight
or actually be a part of a tram which is moving on an interstate mission. The mere intention to use an isolated car
standing in a railroad -yard for that purpose is insufficient to
give it an interstate character. There is nothing in the car
itself to indicate its character; but, chameleon like, it changes
its hue according to the use to which it is put at any particular
time. Railway Gross Receipts Case, 15 Wall. 284, 294, Wiggins
Ferry Co. v East St. Louis, 107 U S. 365, 374. See analogous
ruling in Munn v Illinois, 94 U S. 113, 135, as to warehouses.
The statute must be strictly construed. The rule of liberal
construction of remedial statutes does not apply Where a
statute creates a liability, where none existed before, it must
be strictly and literally construed. Sutherland on Stat. Construction, ยง 371.
There was no duty on the railroad company to eqip its
engines with automatic couplers under the common law
When language is clear it needs no construction. Yerke v
United States, 173 U S. 439; Thornley v United States, 113
U S. 310, and words are to be construed according to their
popular sense. Millard v Lawrence, 16 How 251, 261. See

OCTOBER TERN,

1904.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

196 U. S.

also Bryce v Burlington &c. Ry. Co., 119 Iowa, 274, Lake
County v Rollins, 130 U S. 662, and cases cited on p. 670;
United States v Reese, 92 U S. 214, 220.
The engine is not within the statute. A penal statute cannot be construed by equity to extend to cases not within the
correct and ordinary meaning of the expressions of the law
United States v Harris, 177 U S. 309; Sarlls v United States,
152 U S. 575, United States v Sheldon, 2 Wheat. 119, 122.
The policy of the Government does not necessarily call for
a liberal construction of the act. Hadden v Collector, 5 Wall.
107, 111, St. Paul &c. Ry. v Phelps, 137 U S. 528, 536.
The amendatory act of 1903, 32 Stat. 943, shows that the
act originally did not include engines. Neither the engine nor
dinmg car were at the time instruments of interstate commerce. The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557, Chi., St. P &c. Ry.
v Becker, 35 Fed. Rep. 883.
The interstate commerce act does not apply It is a penal
statute and fails to reach this case. United States v Harrs,
177 U S. 305, 309, Sarlls v United States, 152 U S. 570.
Plaintiff assumed the risk. Railway v Smithson, 45 Michigan, 212, 220; Hodges v Kimball, 44 C. C. A. 193, Whitcomb v
Oil Co., 153 Indiana, 513, 519, Boland v Railway, 106 Alabama, 641, Kohn v McNulta, 147 U S. 238.
Plaintiff's contributory negligence was such as to bar this
action. San Antonio Traction Co. v De Rodriquez, 77 S. W
Rep. 420; Houston &c. Ry. v Martn, 21 Tex. Civ. App. 207,
Denver & R. G Ry. Co., v Arrghi, 129 Fed. Rep. 347, Norfolk
&c. Ry. v Emmert, 83 Virginia, 640, 645, Brooks v Railway
Co., 47 Fed. Rep. 687, So. Ry. Co. v Arnold, 114 Alabama, 183,
189, Cleary v Railway Co., 66 N. Y Supp. 568.
As plaintiff admitted he had been furnished with written
rules by the company and had read and was familiar with
them, his breach thereof precluded him from recovering for
his injuries. Fluhrer v Railway, 121 Michigan, 212, Platton
v So. Ry., 49 C. C. A. 571, Erie Ry. v Kane, 55 C. C. A. 129;
K. &c. Ry. v Dye, 16 C. C. A. 604.

JOHNSON v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO.
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. OHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

This case was brought here on certiorari, and also on writ
of error, and will be determined on the merits, without discussing the question of jurisdiction as between the one writ
and the other. Pullman's Car Company v Transportatwn
Company, 171 U S. 138, 145.
The plaintiff claimed that he was relieved of assumption of
risk under common law rules by the act of Congress of March 2,
1893, 27 Stat. 531, c. 196, entitled "An act to promote the
safety of employ~s and travelers upon railroads by compelling
common carriers engaged in interstate commerce to equip
their cars with automatic couplers and continuous brakes and
their locomotives with driving-wheel brakes, and for other
purposes."
The issues involved questions deemed of such general importance that the Government was permitted to file brief and
be heard at the bar.
The act of 1893 provided.
"That from and after the first day of January, eighteen
hundred and ninety-eight, it shall be unlawful for any common
carrier engaged in interstate commerce by railroad to use on
its line any locomotive engine in moving interstate traffic not
equipped with a power driving-wheel brake and appliances
for operating the train-brake system."
"SEc. 2. That on and after the first day of January, eighteen
hundred and ninety-eight, it shall be unlawful for any such
common carrier to haul or permit to be hauled or used on its
line any car used in moving interstate traffic not equipped with
couplers coupling automatically by impact, and which can be
uncoupled without the necessity of men going between the
ends of the cars."
"SEC. 6. That any such common carrier using any locomotive engine, running any train, or hauling or permitting to
be hauled or used on its line any car in violation of any of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

provisions of this act, shall be liable to a penalty of one hundred dollars for each and every such violation, to be recovered
in a suit or suits to be brought by the United States district
attorney in the District Court of the United States having
jurisdiction in the locality where such violation shall have
been committed, and it shall, be the duty 'of such district
attorney to bring such suits upon duly verified information being lodged with him of such violation having occurred."
"SEc. 8. That any employ6 of any such common carrier
who may be injured by any locomotive, car, or train in use
contrary to the provision of this act shall not be deemed thereby
to have assumed the risk thereby occasioned, although continuing in the employment of such carrier after the unlawful
use of such locomotive, car, or tram had been brought to his
knowledge."
The Circuit Court of Appeals held, in substance, Sanborn, J.,
delivering the opinion and Lochren, J., concurring, that the
locomotive and car were both equipped as required by the act,
as the one had a power driving-wheel brake and the other a
coupler; that section 2 did not apply to locomotives; that at
the time of the accident the dining car was not "used in moving interstate traffic;" and, moreover, that the locomotive, as
well as the dining car, was furnished with an automatic coupler
so that each was equipped as the statute required if section 2
applied to both. Thayer, J., concurred in the judgment on
the latter ground, but was of opinion that locomotives were
included by the words "any car" in the second section, and
that the dining car was being "used in moving interstate
traffic."
We are unable to accept these conclusions, notwithstanding
the able opinion of the majority, as they appear to us to be
inconsistent with the plain intention of Congress, to defeat the
object of the legislation, and to be arrived at by an madmissible narrowness of construction.
The intention of Congress, declared in the preamble and in

JOHNSON v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO.
196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

sections one and two of the act, was "to promote the safety of
employ6s and travelers upon railroads by compelling common
carriers engaged in interstate commerce to equip their cars
with automatic couplers and continuous brakes and their locomotives with driving-wheel brakes," those brakes to be accompanied with "appliances for operating the train-brake
system;" and every car to be "equipped with couplers coupling
automatically by impact, and which can be uncoupled without
the necessity of men going between the ends of the cars,"
whereby the danger and risk consequent on the existing system was averted as far as possible.
The present case is that of an injured employ6, and involves
the application of the act in respect of automatic couplers, the
preliminary question being whether locomotives are required
to be equipped with such couplers. And it is not to be successfully denied that they are so required if the words "any
car" of the second section were intended to embrace, and do
embrace, locomotives. But it is said that this cannot be so
because locomotives were elsewhere in terms required to be
equipped with power driving-wheel brakes, and that the rule
that the expression of one thing excludes another applies.
That, however, is a question of intention, and as there was
special reason for requiring locomotives to be equipped with
power driving-wheel brakes, if it were also necessary that
locomotives should be equipped with automatic couplers, and
the word "car" would cover locomotives, then the intention
to limit the equipment of locomotives to power driving-wheel
brakes, because they were separately mentioned, could not be
imputed. Now it was as necessary for the safety of employ~s
in coupling and uncoupling, that locomotives should be
equipped with automatic couplers, as it was that freight and
passenger and dining cars should be, perhaps more so, as
Judge Thayer suggests, "since engines have occasion to make
couplings more frequently"
And manifestly the word "car" was used in its generic
sense. There is nothing to indicate that any particular kind

OCTOBER TERI, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

of car was meant. Tested by context, subject matter and
object, "any car" meant all kinds of cars running on the rails,
including locomotives. And this view is supported by the
dictionary definitions and by many judicial decisions, some
of them having been rendered in construction of this act.
Winkler v Philadelphza & Reading Railway Company, 53 Atl.
Rep. 90; 4 Penn. (Del.) 387, Fleming v Southern Railway
Company, 131 N. Car. 476, East St. Louts Connecting Railway Company v O'Hara, 150 Illinois, 580; Kansas City &c.
Railroad Company v Crocker, 95 Alabama, 412; Thomas v
Georgza Railroad and Banking Company, 38 Georgia, 222,
Mayor &c. v Third Ave. R. R. Co., 117 N. Y 404, Benson v.
Railway Company, 75 Minnesota, 163.
The result is that if the locomotive m question was not
equipped with automatic couplers, the company failed to
comply with the provisions of the act. It appears, however,
that this locomotive was m fact equipped with automatic
couplers, as well as the dining car, but that the couplers on
each, which were of different types, would not couple with
each other automatically by impact so as to render it unnecessary for men to go between the cars to couple and uncouple.
Nevertheless, the Circuit Court of Appeals was of opinion
that it would be an unwarrantable extension of the terms of
the law to hold that where the couplers would couple automatically with couplers of their own kind, the couplers must
so couple with couplers of different kinds. But we think that
what the act plainly forbade was the use of cars which could
not be coupled together automatically by impact, by means
of the couplers actually used on the cars to be coupled. The
object was to protect the lives and limbs of railroad employ~s
by rendering it unnecessary for a man operating the couplers
to go between the ends of the cars, and that object would be
defeated, not necessarily by the use of automatic couplers of
different kinds, but if those different kinds would not automatically couple with each other. The point was that the

JOHNSON v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO.
Opunon of the Court.

196 U. S.

railroad companies should be compelled, respectively, to adopt
devices, whatever they were, which would act so far uniformly
as to eliminate the danger consequent on men going between
the cars.
If the language used were open to construction, we are
constrained to say that the construction put upon the act by
the Circuit Court of Appeals was altogether too narrow
This strictness was thought to be required because the
common law rule as to the assumption of risk was changed
by the act, and because the act was penal.
The dogma as to the strict construction of statutes in derogation of the common law only amounts to the recognition of
a presumption against an intention to change existing law,
and as there is no doubt of that intention here, the extent of
the application of the change demands at least no more rigorous construction than would be applied to penal laws. And,
as Chief Justice Parker remarked, conceding that statutes in
derogation of the common law are to be construed strictly,
"they are also to be construed sensibly, and with a view to the
object aimed at by the legislature." Gibson v Jenney, 15
Massachusetts, 205.
The primary object of the act was to promote the public
welfare by securing the safety of employ6s and travelers, and
it was in that aspect remedial, while for violations a penalty
a civil action, was proof one hundred dollars, recoverable ifi
vided for, and in that aspect it was penal. But the design to
give relief was more dominant than to inflict punishment,
and the act might well be held to fall within the rule applicable
to statutes to prevent fraud upon the revenue, and for the
collection of customs, that rule not requiring absolute strictness of construction. Taylor v United States, 3 How 197,
United States v Stowell, 133 U S. 1, 12, and cases cited. And
see Farmers' and Merchants' Natsonal Bank v Dearng, 91
U S. 29, 35, Gray v Bennett, ,3 Met. (Mass.) 522.
Moreover, it is settled that "though penal laws are to be
construed strictly, yet the intention of the legislature must
VOL. cxCvi-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.

OpnmoA of the Court.

196 U. S.

govern in the construction of penal as well as other statutes;
and they are not to be construed so strictly as to defeat the
obvious intention of the legislature." United States v Lacher,
134 U S. 624. In that case we cited and quoted from United
States v Winn, 3 Sumn. 209, in which Mr. Justice Story, referrmg to the rule that penal statutes are to be construed
strictly, said.
"I agree to that rule in its true and sober sense, and that is,
that penal statutes are not to be enlarged by implication, or
extended to cases not obviously within their words and purport. But where the words are general, and include various
classes of persons, I know of no authority, which would justify
the court in restricting them to one class, or in giving them the
narrowest interpretation, where the mischief to be redressed
by the statute is equally applicable to all of them. And where
a word is used in a statute, which has various known significations, I know of no rule, that requires the court to adopt one
in preference to another, simply because it is more restrained,
if the objects of the statute equally apply to the largest and
broadest sense of the word. In short, it appears to me, that
the proper course in all these cases, is to search out and follow
the true intent of the legislature, and to adopt that sense of
the words which harmonizes best with the context, and promotes in the fullest manner, the apparent policy and objects
of the legislature."
Tested by these principles, we think the view of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which limits the second section to merely
providing automatic couplers, does not give due effect to the
words "coupling automatically by impact, and which can be
uncoupled without the necessity of men going between the
cars," and cannot be sustained.
We dismiss as without merit the suggestion, which has been
made, that the words "without the necessity of men going
between the ends of the cars," which are the test of compliance
with section two, apply only to the act of uncoupling. The
phrase literally covers both coupling and uncoupling, and if

JOHNSON v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO.
196 U. S.

Opinon of the Court.

read, as it should be, with a comma after the word "uncoupled," this becomes entirely clear. Chwago, Milwaukee &
St. Paul Railway Company v Voelker, 129 Fed. Rep. 522,
United States v Lacher, supra.
The risk m coupling and uncoupling was the evil sought to
be remedied, and that risk was to be obviated by the use of
couplers actually coupling automatically True, no particular
design was required, but whatever the devices used they were
to be effectively interchangeable. Congress was not paltering
m a double sense. And its intention is found "in the language actually used, interpreted according to its fair and obvious meaning." United States v Harms, 177 U S. 305, 309.
That this was the scope of the statute is confirmed by the
circumstances surrounding its enactment, as exhibited in
public documents to which we are at liberty to refer. BInns
v United States, 194 U S. 486, 495, Holy Trnity Church v
United States, 143 U S. 457, 463.
President Harrison, in his annual messages of 1889, 1890,
1891 and 1892, earnestly urged upon Congress the necessity
of legislation to obviate and reduce the loss of life and the
injuries due to the prevailing method of coupling and braking.
In his first message he said. "It is competent, I think, for
Congress to require uniformity in the construction of cars used
in interstate commerce, and the use of improved safety appliances upon such trams. Time will be necessary to make the
needed changes, but an earnest and intelligent beginning should
be made at once. It is a reproach to our civilization that any
class of American workmen should, in the pursuit of a necessary and useful vocation, be subjected to a peril of life and
limb as great as that of a soldier in time of war."
And he reiterated his recommendation in succeeding messages, saying in that for 1892: "Statistics furnished by the
Interstate Commerce Commission show that during the year
ending June 30, 1891, there were forty-seven different styles
of car couplers reported to be in use, and that during the same
period there were 2,660 employ6s killed and 26,140 injured.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

196 U. S.

Nearly 16 per cent of the deaths occurred in the coupling and
uncoupling of cars, and over 36 per cent of the injuries had
the same origin."
The Senate report of the first session of the Fifty-second
Congress (No. 1049), and the House report of the same session
(No. 1678), set out the numerous and increasing casualties due
to coupling, the demand for protection, and the necessity of
automatic couplers, coupling interchangeably The difficulties
in the case were fully expounded and the result reached to
require an automatic coupling by unpact so as to render it
unnecessary for men to go between the cars, while no particular
device or type was adopted, the railroad companies being left
free to work out the details for themselves, ample time being
given for that purpose. The law gave five years, and that was
enlarged, by the Interstate Commerce Commission as authorized by law, two years, and subsequently seven months, making seven years and seven months in all.
The diligence of counsel has called our attention to changes
made in the bill in the course of its passage, and to the debates
in the Senate on the report of its committee. 24 Cong. Rec.,
pt. 2, pp. 1246, 1273 et seq. These demonstrate that the difficulty as to interchangeability was fully in the mind of Congress and was assumed to be met by the language which was
used. The essential degree of uniformity was secured by providing that the couplings must couple automatically by impact without the necessity of men going between the ends of
the cars.
In the present case the couplings would not work together,
Johnson was obliged to go between the cars, and the law was
not complied with.
March 2, 1903, 32 Stat. 943, c. 976, an act in amendment of
the act of 1893 was approved, which provided, among other
things, that the provisions and requirement, of the former act
"shall be held to apply to common carriers by railroads in the
Territories and the District of Columbia and shall apply in all
cases, whether or not the couplers brought together are of the

JOHNSON v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO.
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

same kind, make, or type;" and "shall be held to apply to all
trams, locomotives, tenders, cars, and similar vehicles used on
any railroad engaged in interstate commerce."
This act was to take effect September first, nineteen hundred and three, and nothing m it was to be held or construed
to relieve any common carrier "from any of the provisions,
powers, duties, liabilities, or requirements" of the act of 1893,
all of which should apply except as specifically amended.
As we have no doubt of the meaning of the prior law, the
subsequent legislation cannot be regarded as intended to operate to destroy it. Indeed, the latter act is affirmative, and
declaratory, and, in effect, only construed and applied the
former act. Bailey v Clark, 21 Wall. 284, United States v
Freeman, 3 How 556, Cope v Cope, 137 UI S. 682, Wetmore v
Markoe, post, p. 68. This legislative recognition of the scope
of the prior law fortifies and does not weaken the conclusion
at which we have arrived.
Another ground oii which the decision of the Circuit Court
of Appeals was rested remains to be noticed. That court held
by a majority that as the dining car was empty and had not
actually entered upon its trip, it was not used in moving interstate traffic, and hence was not within the act. The dining car
had been constantly used for several years to furnish meals to
passengers between San Francisco and Ogden, and for no other
purpose. On the day of the accident the eastbound train was
so late that it was found that the car could not reach Ogden
in time to return on the next westbound train according to
intention, and it was therefore dropped off at Promontory to
be picked up by that tram as it came along that evening.
The presumption is that it was stocked for the return, and
as it was not a new car, or a car just from the repair shop, on
its way to its field of labor, it was not "an empty," as that
term is sometimes used. Besides, whether cars are empty or
loaded, the danger to employ~s is practically the same, and
we agree with the observation of District Judge Shiras in
Voelker v Railway Company, 116 Fed. Rep. 867, that "it can-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opmion of the Court.

196 U. S.

not be true that on the eastern trip the provisions of the act
of Congress would be binding upon the company, because the
cars were loaded, but would not be binding upon the return
trip, because the cars are empty"
Counsel urges that the character of the dining car at the
time and place of the injury was local only and could not be
changed until the car was actually engaged in interstate movement or being put into a tram for such use, and Coe v Errol,
116 U S. 517, is cited as supporting that contention. In Coe
v Errol it was held that certain logs cut in New Hampshire,
and hauled to a river in order that they might be transported
to Maine, were subject to taxation in the former State before
transportation had begun.
The distinction between merchandise which may become an
article of interstate commerce, or may not, and an instrument
regularly used in moving interstate commerce, which has
stopped temporarily in making its trip between two points in
different States, renders this and like cases inapplicable.
Confessedly this dining car was under the control of Congress while in the act of making its interstate journey, and in
our judgment it was equally so when waiting for the tram to
be made up for the next trip. It was being regularly used in
the movement of interstate traffic and so within the law
Finally it is argued that Johnson was guilty of such contributory negligence as to defeat recovery, and that, therefore,
the judgment should be affirmed. But the Circuit Court of
Appeals did not consider this question, nor apparently did the
Circuit Court, and we do not feel constrained to inquire whether
it could have been open under ยง 8, or, if so, whether it should
have been left to the jury under proper instructions.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals ss reversed, the
judgment of the Circuit Court s also reversed, and the cause
remanded to that court with snstructonsto set aside the verdict
and award a new tinal.

