OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Syllabus.

196 U. S.

Construing the third plea most strongly against the pleader,
the conclusion was that it disclosed no defense in the action.
This was purely a local question, and is not assignable as error
here.
Whether, aside from the Federal question discussed, the
courts of New Jersey should have sustained this action upon
principles of comity between the States, was also a question
within the exclusive jurisdiction of the state court. Finney
v Guy, 189 U S. 335.
The writ of error must, therefore, be
Dsmssed.

CORRY v. THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF BALTIMORE.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF MARYLAND.
No. 86. Argued December 8, 1904.-Decided February 20, 1905.
The sovereign that creates a corporation has the incidental right to impose
reasonable regulations concerning the ownership of stock therein and it
is not an unreasonable regulation to establish the situs of stock for purposes of taxation, at the principal office of the corporation whether owned
by residents or non-residents, and to compel the corporation to pay the
tax for the stockholders giving it a right of recovery therefor against the

stockholders and a lien on the stock.
Where valid according to the laws of the State such a regulation does not
deprive the stockholder of his property without due process of law either
because it is an exercise of the taxing power of the State over persons
and things not within its jurisdiction, or because notice of the assessment is not given to each stockholder, provided notice is given to the
corporation and the statute either m terms, or as construed by the state
court, constitutes the corporation the agent of the stockholders to receive
notice and to represent them m proceedings for the correction of the assessment.
While the liability of non-resident stockholders for taxes on his stock may
not be expressed in the charter of the company if it existed m the general
laws of the State at the time of the creation of the corporation or the
extension of its charter, and the constitution of the State also contained
at such times the reserved right to alter, amend and repeal, those provisions of the constitution and general laws of the State are as much A
part of the charter as if expressly embodied therein,

CORRY v. BALTIMORE.
196 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Tim New York and Baltimore Transportation Line was
chartered in 1847 by the general assembly of Maryland, and
it still exists by virtue of an extension in 1876 of its charter.
At all times the corporation has maintained its principal office
in the city of Baltimore.
James C. Corry, a resident and citizen of Pennsylvania,
acquired one hundred and fifty shares of the stock of the
transportation line, having a face value of twenty dollars per
share.
The one hundred and fifty shares standing in Corry's name,
as stated, were assessed for the years 1899 and 1900 for state
and the municipal taxes of the city of Baltimore, the total taxes
.being $43.27 for the year 1899 and $36.49 for the year 1900.
Conformably to the laws of Maryland, payment of said taxes
was demanded of the transportation company To restrain
compliance with this demand Corry commenced the present
suit, making defendants to the bill of complaint the mayor
and council of Baltimore, the treasurer of the city, the treasurer of the State, and the transportation company The relief
prayed was based on averments that the laws of Maryland
under which the taxes were levied were repugnant to the
state and Federal Constitutions, upon grounds specified in
the bill. A decree was entered sustaining general demurrers,
interposed by the various defendants, and dismissing the bill.
This was affirmed by the Court of Appeals of Maryland. 96
Maryland, 310.
Mr William P Maulsby, with whom Mr Edunn G. Baetler
was on the brief, for plaintiff in errorWhile the sovereign power of taxation extends to persons
residing and property situate within its boundaries and includes the right to tax 2n rem the local property of a nonresident, it does not include the right to inpose a tax m
personam, or a personal obligation on the non-resident himself.
Cooley on Taxation, 3d ed., 249, Lousville Ferry Co. v Kentucky, 188 U, S. 385, 397, Dewey v Des Mones, 173 U. S. 193,

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

196 U. S.

204, McCulloch v Maryland,4 Wheat. 316, 429, State Tax on
Foreign Held Bonds, 19 Wall. 319; Baltsmore v Hussey, 67
Maryland, 112, Coe v Errol, 116 U S. 517, 524, Fargo v Hart,
193 U S. 490, 500; Commonwealth v Standard Oil Co., 101 Pa.
St. 119; Gloucester Ferry Co. v Pennsylvana, 114 U. S. 196,
208, St. Louss v Ferry Co., 11 Wall. 423, New York City v
McLean, 170 N. Y 374, 387, Tappan v Bank, 19 Wall. 490,
distinguished, and see County v So. Pac. R. R. Co., 15 Fed.
Rep. 753, Cooley on Const. Lim. 3.
A State cannot require a non-resident's personal subjection
to its sovereignty Pennoyer v Neff, 95 U. S. 733, Paul v
Virgnmia, 8 Wall. 168, 180; Carfield v Coryell, 4 Wash. C. C.
380; Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 30, 76.
The capital stock tax is a tax rn personam on the stockholder, not a tax ?n rem on his share.
For distinction between these two classes of taxes see Leigh
v Green, 193 U S. 79, 90. It is of special importance only
as to non-resident stockholders. As to character of its taxes
Maryland differs from every State of the Union. 27 Am. &
Eng. Ency Law, 632, Code of Maryland, 1888, 1903, Art. 81,
§§ 2, 90, 150-162, Art. 15 Decl. of Rights.
The method of ascertaining the taxes on the shares of a
corporation is never correct and always errs on the side of
the excess. There is no relation between the actual and
assessed value of the shares. Bank v Commonwealth, 9 Wall.
353. Under the method of assessment the tax is not one on
the shares but on the owner. Houston v New Orleans, 119
U S. 265, 276, Stapleton v Haggard, 91 Fed. Rep. 93. It is
also recoverable in assumpsit and is not a tax on the corporation. The tax is levied without due process of law It has
never been decided what due process requires as to taxation.
Turpn v Lemon, 187 U S. 51, Glidden v Harmngton, 189
U. S. 255. But see Cooley on Taxation, 363, Railroad Tax
Cases, 13 Fed. Rep. 752, under which opportunity to the
person taxed to question the validity or amount of the tax
is requisite.

CORRY v. BALTDIORE.
19o U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

The notice need not be personal, but it may be by publication, or a statute may give notice by fixing the time and place
of hearing. W & St. Peters L. Co. v Minnesota, 159 U S.
526, 536, Merchants' Bank v Pennsylvania,167 U S. 461, 466,
Pittsburg Ry. v Backus, 154 U. S. 421, 425. The time and
place for hearing must be m some way prescribed. Railroad
Tax Cases, 92 U S. 575, 610; Plamer v McMahon, 133 U S.
669; Hagarv Reclam. Dist., 111 U. S. 701, 710; Montscello Co.
v Baltimore, 90 Maryland, 416, 428.
The Maryland statute does not afford these opportunities.
It only gives the corporation and not the shareholders the
right to be heard. Clark Distilling Co. v Cumberland, 95
Maryland, 468, 475.
The elements of such opportunity or due process, are Federal
questions on which the Supreme Court would not consider the
decision of the state court conclusive. State Bank v Knopp,
16 How 391, Wmght v Nagle, 101 U S. 793, McCullough v
Virgmsa, 172 U. S. 109.
The corporation is not really the agent for the stockholder
as held by the state court. Cook on Stockholders, § 11.
The whole tax is a mere nullity, as ultra mres and void. It
is twofold and not provided for by law Pennoyer v Neff,
95 U S. 714.
Whether the State has the right to exercise the powers;
or whether the exercise is ultra lnres; whether it has -the power
to so tax a non-resident; whether the tribute exacted by its
revenue laws is taxation or spoliation, is a Federal question.
Dewey v Des Momes, 173 U S. 193, 201, Louisville Ferry Co.
v Kentucky, 188 U. S. 385, Fargo v Hart, 193 U S. 490;
State Tax on ForeignHeld Bonds, 15 Wall. 300; Santa Clarav
So. Pac. R. R., 18 Fed. Rep. 385.
Mr Albert C Ritchis, with whom Mr W Cabell Bruce was
on the brief, for defendants m errorThe tax statute has been construed and upheld by the
Maryland courts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

196 U. S.

A State has the power to fix the situs of shares of stock held
in its corporations by non-residents of the State, at the place
m the State where the corporation has its principal office, and
to provide for the taxation of such non-resident stockholders
on account of their shares at such place, and no right granted
or secured by the Constitution of the United States is violated
thereby
This court will not set aside the Maryland statutes here m
question, unless they encroach upon legitimate national authority or violate some right granted or secured by the Constitution of the United States. Lake Erie R. R. Co. v Pennsylvansa, 153 U S. 628, 641, Kirtland v Hotchkiss, 100 U. S.
490, 498.
The only question before this court, is the power and authority of the State to declare that Maryland is the situs for
purposes of taxation of stock in Maryland corporations held
by non-residents and that such stock shall be there taxed.
If the State possesses this power, its right to exercise it is in no
way affected by the fact that the non-resident stockholder
may or may not be taxed upon his stock m the State of his
domicile. Blackstone v Miller, 188 U S. 189, 205, and cases
cited.
Movable personal property is always subject to taxation
in the State where it is situated. Coe v Errol, 116 U. S. 517,
Am. Refrigerator Co. v Hall, 174 U S. 70; Union Refrigerator
Co. v Lynch, 177 U S. 149. Shares of stock, however, are
personal property of an intangible nature. They represent
property invested in the corporation, which should pay its
share of the expenses of the State. The corporation derives
its existence from the State creating it. Its shares are authorized to be issued by, and are subject to, the control of
the laws of the State and can be subjected to taxation by the
State. Bank v Commonwealth, 9 Wall. 353, 361, Tappan
v Merchants' Bank, 19 Wall. 490; New Orleans v Stempel, 175
U S. 309, 320; Bristolv Washington County, 177 U S. 133, 144,
St. Albans v National Car Co., 57 Vermont, 68, Pullman Co.

CORRY v. BALTIMORE.
196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

v Pennsylvania, 141 U S. 18, 22, Adams Express Co. v Oho,
166 U S. 185, 224, Loan Society v Multonomah County, 169
U. S. 421, Travellers Ins. Co. v Connectwut, 185 U S. 364,
State Tax on ForeignHeld Bonds, 15 Wall. 300, distinguished,
see Matter of Bronson, 150 N. Y 1. The tax cannot impair
the obligation of any contract. See also Delaware R. R. Tax
Case, 18 Wall. 206, Murray v Charleston, 96 U S. 432, Kbrtland v Hotchk?ss, 100 U S. 491, Ere R. R. Co. v Pennsylvania, 153 U

S. 628.

Although the laws of Maryland make no provision for notice
to the individual stockholders of a Maryland corporation, or
for any opportunity to be heard by them, upon the question
of the valuation of their stock for purposes of taxation, yet
ample provision is made for notice to, and an opportunity to
be heard by, the corporation itself, and inasmuch as the corporation, under the Maryland system of taxation, acts for and
as the representative of the stockholders, the Maryland statute
gratifies the requirement of due process of law Turpm v
Lemon, 187 U S. 51, 58, Glidden v Harmngton, 189 U S. 255,
258, Bank v Pennsylvania, 167 U S. 461, 466, Am. Casualty
Co. Case, 82 Maryland, 535, Clark Distilling Co. v Cumberland,
95 Maryland, 468, 474.
after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR.

JUsTICe WHITE,

The subjects and methods of taxation of property within
the State of Maryland are regulated generally by article 81
of the Code of Public General Laws of that State.
A tax for state purposes and one for local purposes is laid
upon all property In each year the officers of domestic -corporations are required to furnish information respecting the
value of the shares of stock in such corporations to the state
tax commissioner, who determines the aggregate value thereof,
deducts therefrom the assessed value of the real estate owned
by the corporation, and the quotient, obtained by dividing

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinon of the Court.

196 U. S.

the remainder by the total number of shares of stock, is treated
as the taxable value of each share, subject, however, to correction on appeal to the state comptroller and state treasurer
after notice to the corporation of the valuation fixed by the
tax commissioner. The rate of the state tax is determined
by the general assembly, and that for municipal purposes m
Baltimore is fixed by the mayor and council of that city
The levy on property m Baltimore, both for state and city
purposes, is made by the municipal authorities. In case of
stock m Maryland corporations owned by non-residents the
statutes declare that the situs of such stock, for the purpose
of taxation, shall be at the principal office of the corporation
in Maryland, and such shares are there assessed at their value
to the owners. The statutes undoubtedly npose upon a
Maryland corporation the duty of paying for and on account
of the owners the taxes assessed m respect of the shares, and
compel such payment without reference to the dividends,
giving to the corporation a lien upon the shares of stock, and
entitling the corporation, when it pays the taxes, to proceed
by a personal action to recover the amount paid. Dugan v.
Mayor of Baltimore, 1 G. & J 499, 502, Mayor &c. v Howard,
6 H. & J 383, 394, Amercan Coal Co. v Allegany Co. Comrs.,
59 Maryland, 185, Hull v Southern Development Co., 89 Maryland, 8, 11.
The Maryland decisions have also settled that the tax is on
the stockholder personally because of his ownership of the
stock, and is not on the stock n rem or on the corporation.
The Maryland doctrine on the subject is shown by the opinion
of the Court of Appeals of Maryland m United States Electrc
Power & inght Company v State, 79 Maryland, 63, where the
court said (p. 70)
"But the tax is not a tax upon the stock or upon the corporation, but upon the owners of the shares of stock, though
the officers of the corporation are made the agents of the State
for the collection of the state tax. It is not material what
assets or other property make up the value of the shares.

CORRY v. BALTIMORE.
196 U. S.

Opunon of the Court.

Those shares are property, and under existing laws are taxable
property They belong to the stockholders respectively and
individually, and when for the sake of convenience in collecting the tax thereon, the corporation pays the state tax upon
these shares into the state treasury, it pays the tax not upon
the company's own property, nor for the company, but upon
the property of each stockholder and for each stockholder
respectively, by whom the company is entitled to be reinbursed. Hence when the owner of the shares is taxed on
account of his ownership and the tax is paid for him by the
company, the tax is not levied upon or collected from the
corporation at all."
See, also, Hull v Southern Development Co., supra.
Substantially similar laws for the taxing of stock m Maryland corporations were m force m Maryland at the time of the
incorporation of the transportation company, and have been
m force ever since.
All the clamis of Federal right here asserted are embraced
in and will be disposed of by passing on two propositions,
which we shall consider separately
The first proposition is that, as the authority of the State
of Maryland to tax is limited by the effect of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States to persons and property within the jurisdiction of the State, and as
the tax in question was not 'n rem against the stock but was
rn personam against the owner, the power attempted to be
exercised as it imposed a personal liability was wanting in
due process of law
The Court of Appeals of Maryland disposed of this contention by deciding that it was in the power of the State of Maryland to fix for the purposes of taxation the situs of stock m
domestic corporations held by a non-resident. It also held
that, as such corporations were created by the State and were
subject to its regulating authority, it was within its power to
impose, as a condition to the right to acquire stock in such
corporations, the duty of paying the taxes assessed on the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opunon of the Court.

196 U. S.

stock, and, moreover, that the State might compel the corporation to pay such taxes on behalf of the stockholder, and
confer upon the corporation a right of action to obtain reimbursement from a stockholder when the payment was made.
The court, in its opinion in this case, did not expressly elaborate
the foregoing considerations, but contented itself by referring
to previous decisions by it made. Among the cases so referred
to was the case of American Coal Companyv Alleghany County
Comrs., 59 Maryland, 185, 193, where it was said.
"The appellant is a Maryland corporation, deriving its
existence, and all its powers and franchises, from this State.
And such being the case, it is settled, that the sovereign power
of taxation extends to everything which exists by the authority of the State, or which is introduced by its permission,
except where such power is expressly or by necessary implication excluded. The separate shares of the capital stock of
the corporation are authorized to be issued by the charter
derived from the State, and are subject to its control in respect
to the right of taxation, and every person taking such shares,
whether resident or non-resident of the State, must take them
subject to such state power and jurisdiction over them. Hence
the State may give the shares of stock, held by individual
stockholders, a special or particular situs for purposes of
taxation, and may provide special modes for the collection
of the tax levied thereon."
That it was rightly determined that it was within the power
of the State to fix, for the purposes of taxation, the situs of
stock in a domestic corporation, whether held by residents or
non-residents, is so conclusively settled by the prior adjudications of this court that the subject is not open for discussion.
Indeed, it was conceded in the argument at bar that no question was made on this subject. The whole contention is that,
albeit the situs of the stock was in the State of Maryland for
the purposes of taxation, it was nevertheless beyond the power
of the State to personally tax the non-resident owner for and
on account of the ownership of the stock, and to compel the

CORRY v. BALTIMORE.
196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

corporation to pay and confer upon it the right to proceed by
a personal action against the stockholder in case the corporation did pay Reiterated in various forms of expression, the
argument is this, that as the situs of the stock within the State
was the sole source of the jurisdiction of the State to tax, the
taxation must be confined to an assessment n rem against the
stock, with a remedy for enforcement confined to the sale of
the thing taxed, and hence without the right to compel the
corporation to pay or to give it, when it did pay, a personal
action against the owner.
But these contentions are also m effect long since foreclosed
by decisions of this court. Natonal Bank v Commonwealth,
9 Wall. 353, Tappan v Merchants' National Bank, 19 Wall.
490. - In Natwnal Bank v Commonwealth (pp. 361, 362), it
was said.
"If the State cannot require of the bank to pay the tax on
the shares of its stock it must be because the Constitution of
the United States, or some act of Congress, forbids it.
"If the State of Kentucky had a claim against a stockholder
of the bank who was a non-resident of the State, it could undoubtedly collect the clain by legal proceeding, in which the
bank could be attached or garnished, and made to pay the
debt out of the means of its shareholder under its control.
This is, in effect, what the law of Kentucky does in regard to
the tax of the State on the bank shares."
And it was further observed (p. 363)
"The mode under consideration is the one which Congress
itself has adopted in collecting its tax on dividends, and on
the income arising from bonds of corporations. It is the only
mode which, certainly and without loss, secures the payment
of the tax on all the shares, resident or non-resident; and, as
we have already stated, it is the mode which experience has
justified in the New England States as the most convenient
and proper, in regard to the numerous wealthy corporations
of those States."

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

But it is insisted that these rulings concerned taxation by
the States of the shares of stock in national banks under the
provisions of the national banking act, and are therefore not
applicable. The contention is thus expressed.
"This act forms a part of the charter of the national banks,
and provides for this liability Charters can and frequently
do undoubtedly provide for a personal liability of stockholders in various forms; the liability to creditors of the corporation is one of the common illustrations, and the liability
may be thus imposed for a tax as well as for any other debt or
obligation. The court therefore held [in the Tappan case,
19 Wall. 500] that under the national banking act the shareholders were liable, because that act 'made it the law of the
property' The liability arose, not out of the taxing power
of the sovereign, but from the subscription or charter contract
of the subject."
In substance, the contention is that the conceded principle
has no application to taxation by a State of shares of stock
in a corporation created by it, because by the Constitution of
the United States the States are limited as to taxation to
persons and things within their jurisdiction, and may not,
therefore, impose upon a non-resident, by reason of his property within the State, a personal obligation to pay a tax. By
the operation, therefore, of the Constitution of the United
States it is argued the States are restrained from affixing, as a
condition to the ownership of stock in their domestic corporations by non-residents, a personal liability for taxes upon such
stock, since the right of the non-resident to own property in
the respective States is protected by the Constitution of the
United States, and may not be impaired by subjecting such
ownership to a personal liability for taxation. But the contention takes for granted the very issue involved. The prmciple upheld by the rulings of this court to which we have
referred, concerning the taxation by the States of stock in
national banks, is that the sovereignty which creates a corporation has the incidental right to impose reasonable regulations

CORRY v. BALTIMORE.
196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

concerning the ownership of stock therein, and that a regulation establishing the situs of stock for the purpose of taxation,
and compelling the corporation to pay the tax on behalf of
the shareholder, is not unreasonable regulation. Applying
this principle, it follows that a regulation of that character,
prescribed by a State, in creating a corporation is not an
exercise of the taxing power of the State over persons and
things not subject to its jurisdiction. And we think, moreover, that the authority so possessed by the State carries with
it the power to endow the corporation with a right of recovery
against the stockholder for the tax which it may have paid on
his behalf. Certainly, the exercise of such a power is no
broader than the well-recognized right of a State to affix to
the holding of stock in a domestic corporation a liability on a
non-resident as well as a resident stockholder in personam in
favor of the ordinary creditors of the corporation. Flash
v Conn, 109 U S. 371, Whitman v Oxford Nat-onal Bank,
176 U S. 559, Nashua Savings Bank v Anglo-American L. M,
& A. Co., 189 U. S. 221, 230, and cases cited, Platt v Wilmot,
193 U S. 602, 612.
Whilst it is true that the liability of the non-resident stockholder in the case before us, as enforced by the laws of Maryland, was not directly expressed in the charter of the corporation, it nevertheless existed in the general laws of the State
at the time the corporation was created, and, be this as it may,
certainly existed at the time of the extension of the charter.
This is particularly the case, since the constitution of Maryland, for many years prior to- the extension of the charter of
the transportation company, contained the reserved right to
alter, amend and repeal. From all the foregoing it resulted
that the provisions of the general laws and of the constitution
of Maryland were as much a part of the charter as if expressly
embodied therein. Nor can this conclusion be escaped by the
contention that, as the provisions of the statute imposing on
non-resident stockholders in domestic corporations a liability
for taxes on their stock violated the Constitution of the United

OCTOBER TERI, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

196 U. S.

States, therefore such unconstitutional requirements cannot
be treated as having been incorporated in the charter, for this
argument amounts only to reasserting the erroneous proposition which we have already passed upon.
Having disposed of the first proposition we come to consider the second, which is that the legislation of the State of
Maryland is repugnant to the Constitution of the United States,
because of the omission to directly require the giving of notice
to the non-resident stockholder of assessments on his stock
and opportunity for contest by him as to the correctness of
the valuation fixed by the taxing officers. The highest court
of the State of Maryland has construed the statutory provisions in question as in legal effect constituting the corporation the agent of the stockholders to receive notice and to
represent them m proceedings for the correction of an assessment. Thus m Clark Dmtilling Co. v Cumberland, 95 Maryland, 468, the court said (p. 474)
"A notice to each shareholder is unnecessary because the
corporation represents the shareholders. The officers of the
corporation are required by the Code to make an annual return
to the state tax commissioner, and upon the information disclosed by that return the valuation of the capital stock is
placed each year. If the valuation is not satisfactory an
appeal may be taken by the corporation for the shareholders.
An opportunity is thus afforded for the shareholders to be
heard through the corporation, and that gratifies all the requirements of law If each and every shareholder m the
great number of companies throughout the State had a right
to insist upon a notice before an assessment of his shares could
be made, and if each were given a separate right of appeal, it
would be simply impossible to fix annually a valuation on
shares of capital. The policy of the law is to treat the corporation not merely as tax collector after the tax has been levied,
but to deal with it as the representative of the shareholder m
respect to the assessment of the shares; and when notice has
been given to the corporation, and it has the right to be heard

CORRY v. BALTIMORE.
196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

on appeal, notice is thereby given to the shareholders, and
they are accorded a hearing. This is so in every instance
where the assessment is made by the state tax commissioner,
because the revenue laws throughout treat the corporation as
the representative of the shareholders, and as no official other
than the tax commissioner has power to assess capital stock,
no notice other than the one given by him is necessary; and
as no notice other than the one given by him is necessary, a
notice by the municipality to each shareholder is not requisite."
If a tax was expressly imposed upon the corporation the
stockholders, though interested in the preservation of the
assets of the corporation, could not be heard to object that
the statute did not provide for notice to them of the making
of the assessment. The condition attached by the Maryland
law to the acquisition of stock in its domestic corporations,
that the stockholders, for the purpose of notice of the assessment of the stock and proceedings for the correction of the
valuation thereof, shall be represented by the corporation, is
not in our opinion an arbitrary and unreasonable one, when it
is borne in mind that the corporation, through its officers, is
by the voluntary act of the stockholders constituted their
agent and vested with the control and management of all the
corporate property, that which gives value to the shares of
stock and in respect to which taxes are but mere mcidents in
the conduct of the business of the corporation. The possibility that the state taxing officials may abuse their power
and fix an arbitrary and unjust valuation of the shares, and
that the officers of the corporation may be recreant in the
performance of the duty to contest such assessments, does
not militate against the existence of the power to require the
numerous stockholders of a corporation chartered by the
State, particularly those resident without the State, to be
represented in proceedings before the taxing officials through
the agency of the corporation.
As we conclude that the legislation of the State of Maryland

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

m question does not contravene the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States, the judgment of the Court of Appeals of Maryland is

Affirmed.

VANDERBILT v. EIDMAN.
CERTIFICATE

FROM THE UNITED

STATES

CIRCUIT COURT OF

APPEALS FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 206. Argued October 13, 14, 1904.-Decided February 20,1905.
Where a legacy under the will of one dying m September, 1899, was to be
held m trust by the executors, the legatee only to receive the income
until he reached a specified age, which would be subsequent to 1902,
when he was to receive the principal, §§ 29 and 30 of the war revenue
act of June 13, 1898, 30 Stat. 464, did not authorize the assessment or
collection, prior to the time when, if ever, such rights or interests should
become absolutely vested in possession and enjoyment, of any tax with
respect to any of the rights or interests of the legatee with the exception
of is present right to receive the income until the age specified.
The amendatory act of March 2, 1901, 31 Stat. 946, as to the questions
involved in this suit regnacted §§ 29 and 30 of the act of 1898 and did
not enlarge them so as to embrace subjects of taxation not originally
included thereto, and did not justify the new construction thereafter
placed upon the act by the Government, that death duties should become
due within one year as to legacies and distributive shares not capable
of being immediately possessed and enjoyed and therefore not subject
to taxation under the original act. The refunding act of June 27, 1902,
32 Stat. 406, passed after §§ 29 and 30 of the act of 1898 had been repealed by the act of April 12, 1902, 32 Stat. 96, was in a sense declaratory
of the construction now given by this court to those sections of the act
of 1898 and was a legislative affirmance of such construction of the act
as it had been adopted by the Government prior to the amendatory act
of March 2, 1901, and a repudiation of the opposite construction adopted
thereafter.

CORNELIUS VANDERBILT died m the city of New York on
September 12, 1899, leaving a will, which was admitted to
probate, the seventeenth clause of which provides as follows:
"Seventeenth. All the rest, residue and remainder of all

