UNITED STATES v. MONTANA LUMBER
196 U. S.

LFG. CO. 573

Statement of the Case.

The devise to Gregory C. was held to be of the fee.
From these vwws it follows that the decree of the Court of Appeals must be and it ss reversed, and the case ss remanded to
that court with directwns to reverse the decree of the Supreme
Court, and remand the case to that court with directions to
enter a decree sn accordance with this op'znon.
MR. JUSTICE PECEHAM dissents.

UNITED STATES v. MONTANA LUMBER AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEA&LS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 125. Argued January 13,1905.-Decided February 20, 1905.

While the grant to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company under the act
of July 2, 1864, was zn prmsenii, and took effect upon the sections granted
when the road was definitely located, by relation as to the date of the
grant, the survey of the land and the identification of the sectionswhether odd or even-is reserved to the Government, and the equitable
title of the railroad company and its assigns becomes a legal title only
upon the identification of the granted sections. Until the identification
of the sections by a government survey the United States retains a
special interest in the timber growing m the township sufficient to recover the value of timber cut and removed therefrom.
In a suit brought by the United States for that purpose private surveys
made by the railroad company cannot be introduced as evidence to show
that the land from which the timber was cut were odd sections within
the grant and included m a conveyance from the railroad company to
the defendants.

by the United States against the Montana Lumber
Company and the other defendants for the recovery of $15,000,
for the value of 2,000,000 feet of lumber which had been cut
by the lumber company on unsurveyed lands within the District of Montana, and converted by the defendants to their own
AcTION

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

use. It is alleged that the land from which the lumber was cut
when surveyed will be m township 26 N., of range 34 W., of
the Montana meridian. The railway company answered separately denying the allegations of the complaint. The other
defendants also denied the allegations of the complaint.
Further answering, they admitted the cutting of the lumber,
but alleged it was cut from land which, when surveyed, would
be section 5 of said township, and that said section was within
the limits of the grant made by Congress to the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company, and that the lumber company was
at the time of the cutting the owner of the lands by conveyances from the railway company
The case was tried to a jury A nonsuit was granted as to
the railway company Under instructions of the court a verdict was returned for the other defendants.
On the trial of the case the lumber company was permitted
to introduce in evidence, over the objection of the plaintiff, a
private survey of a portion of the township made by one
John J Ashley, a civil engineer and surveyor, m the year 1886,
for the Northern Pacific Railway Company, for the purpose
of ascertaining the location of the railroad sections contained
m said township, .m connection with other evidence that the
timber sued for was taken from what Ashley had designated
as section 5.
In rebuttal of this evidence the plaintiff offered to prove
by George F Rigby, a surveyor and engineer, that he had
made a survey of the same lands, and that the Ashley survey
was incorrect, and that section 5 as located by Ashley had
been placed three-fourths of a mile too far east. The court
ruled out the testimony From the judgment entered upon
the verdict for the defendants the case was taken by writ of
error to the Circuit Court of Appeals. Whereupon the latter
court stated the facts substantially as above, and recited that
there were two other cases pending involving the same questions, and that the court was divided in opinion, and certified
to this court the following questions:

UNITED STATES v. 31ONTANA LUMBER MFG. CO. 575
196 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

"First. Did the District Court for the District of Montana
err m admitting in evidence the proof of the survey made by
Ashley and the proof tending to show that the timber cut by
the Montana Lumber and Manufacturing Company had been
cut on what will be, when surveyed by the United States,
section 5 of township 26 north, of range 34 west, Montana
meridian?
"Second. Did the court err in excluding the evidence offered, on behalf of the plaintiff in error, tending to show that
the Ashley survey was erroneous?
"Third. Did the court err in instructing the jury to return
a verdict for the defendants in error on the ground that the
United States had failed to prove its ownership of the land
from which the timber was cut?"
Mr Marsden C. Burch, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom The Solicitor General was on the brief,
for the United States:
A sovereign makes its own surveys and fixes the boundaries
of its grants. The Ashley survey, made under the direction
of the railway company, was incompetent, and the fact that
Ashley testified that it was made after the method of Government surveys did not relieve it of its vice.
A grantee cannot establish the boundaries of his grant by
his own survey, nor can a court of justice do so. Cooper v
Roberts, 18 How 175, Cragin v Powell, 128 U S. 691, Robinson v Forest, 29 California, 325, Maguire v Tyler, 8 Wall. 660,
661, United States v McLaughlin, 127 U S. 428, Grogan v
Knight, 27 California, 519, Middleton v Low, 30 California,
605, Blake, v Doherty, 5 Wheat. 358, United States v Hanson,
16 Pet. 194, Les Bois v Bramell, 4 How 449; Mackey v Dillon,
4 How 448, Glenn v United States, 13 How 256, Smith v
United States, 10 Pet. 326.
The court erred in excluding the evidence offered by the
Government tending to show that the Ashley survey was
erroneous and also erred in instructing the jury to returna

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opunon of the Court.

196 U. S.

verdict for defendants on the ground that the Government
had failed to prove its ownership of the land from which the
timber was cut.
It is true while some authorities hold that the grant to the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company was a grant -n prcesenti,
it is also true that no title can pass to any particular land until
the regular official survey has been made, for until then there
is no identification of the land granted. Therefore the Government, by its proof of the fact that township 26 was Government land, sustained the allegations of its complaint, and the
defendants were therefore forced to disprove the Government's
case if they could. This they sought to do by the same evidence which they were to offer in support of their special plea.
If, then, such evidence was incompetent, it neither disproved
the Government's case nor proved their special plea.
Outside of the thirteen original States of the Union we have
been unable to find that any court has ever decided, or that
any counsel has ever made the claim, that it was necessary
that the United States, being the party plaintiff, should prove
the title to its land. As in England primarily all lands were
property of the Crown, so in the United States all lands outside
of the said original States are presumed to belong to the United
States, and any party claiming a title adverse to the Government must prove his way from the Government by a regular
chain to himself. Northern Pacific R. R. Co. v Hussey, 61
Fed. Rep. 231, Deseret Salt Co. v Tarpey, 142 U S. 241,
United States v Loughrey, 172 U S. 206.
There was no brief or appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JTSTICE MCKBENNA,

after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
In the view we take of the case the answer to the second
question becomes unnecessary The answer to the first and
third depends upon the effect of the grant to the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company by the act of July 2, 1864.

UNITED STATES v. MONTANA LUBER MFG. CO. 577
196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

The third section of that act contains the usual granting
words: "That there be, and hereby is, granted to the 'Northern Pacific Railroad Company,' its successors and assigns,"
every alternate section of public land, not mineral, designated
by odd numbers, on each side of the line of the railroad when
definitely fixed.
It has been decided many times that such grants are rn
praesentz, and take effect upon the sections of the land when
the road is definitely located, by relation as to the date of the
grant. But the survey of the land is reserved to the Government (section 6), m other words, the identification of the
sections-whether odd or even-is reserved to the Government; and by the act of July 15, 1870, making appropriations
for the sundry civil expenses of the Government for the year
ending June 30, 1871, it was provided, m regard to the grant
to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, that the cost of
surveying must be paid by the company, and no conveyance
should be made of the lands until such cost be paid. On
account of that provision it was held in Northern Pacific Railroad Company v Traill County, 115 U S. 600, that the land of
a railroad company was not subject to taxation. It was said,
"to secure the payment of those expenses, it (the Government) decided to retain the legal title in its own hands until
they were paid." See also New Orleans Pacific Railway Co.
v United States, 124 U S. 124. The equitable title becomes
a legal title only upon the identification of the granted sections. DeseretSalt Co. v Tarpey, 142 U. S. 241. As expressed
in Leavenworth &c. Railroad Co. v United States, 92 U S. 733,
741, "They" (the words "there be and is hereby granted")
"vest a present title,
though a survey of the lands
and a location of the road are necessary to give precision to it,
and attach it to any particular tract." The right of survey is
in the United States. It was error, therefore, in the trial court
to admit the survey made by Ashley It was also error to instruct the jury to return a verdict for the defendants. Until
the identification of the even and odd-numbered sections the
VOL. Oxovi-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

United States retained a special property, at least, in the
timber growing in the township, and this was sufficient to
enable it to recover the value of the timber cut and removed
by the defendants. A contrary conclusion would impair the
Government's right of survey and force it into controversies
over surveys made by the railroad or its grantees. It would
enable the railroad company or its grantees to despoil the lands
of their timber and leave them denuded, and, may be worthless, to the Government. Indeed it would reverse the statutory
grant of powers and transfer the location of the sections from
the Government to the railroad company The extent and
the effect of the power of the Government to make its own
surveys is expressed and illustrated in the following cases:
Magutre v Tyler, 8 Wall. 650; Cragrnv Powell, 128 U S. 691,
United States v McLaughlin, 127 U S. 428, Blake v Doherty,
5 Wheat. 358, Central Pacific Railroad Co. v Nevada, 162
U. S. 512, United States v Hanson, 16 Pet. 196, Les Bois v
Bramell, 4 How 449, Mackey v Dillon, 4 How 421, Glenn v
United States, 13 How 250; Smith v United States, 10 Pet. 326.
There is nothing in Northern Pacific Railroad Company v
Hussey, 61 Fed. Rep. 231, which militates with these views.
In that case relief was granted by injunction against a trespasser upon unsurveyed land at the suit of the railway company, its contingent interest being held sufficient for that
purpose. The paramount control and property in the United
States was not in question.
We, therefore, answer the first and the third question
certified by the Circuit Court of Appeals in the affirmative.
MR. JusTIce BREWER concurs

in the result.

