OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Syllabus.

196 U. S.

this writ of error was allowed by the presiding judge of the
Court of Criminal Appeals, who certified that on that motion
it was contended "that under the evidence in the cause plaintiff in error was engaged m interstate commerce and commerce between different States within the meaning of article
one, section eight, of the Constitution of the United States, and
that the statutes of the State of Texas could not make such
matters and transactions an offense, and that to do so would
violate said constitutional provision." And further "that
said contention was duly considered by us and decided adversely to plaintiff in error."
But on the face of the record proper and from the opinions,
the reasonable inference is that the court may have denied
the application in the mere exercise of its discretion, or declined to pass on the alleged constitutional question, in terms,
because it was suggested too late, and nothing is more firmly
established than that such a certificate cannot m itself confer
jurisdiction on this court. Henkel v Cincinnati, 177 U. S.
170; Dibble v Bellingham Bay Land Company, 163 U. S. 63.
Writ of errordismissed.

CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RAILWAY COMPANY v.
MURPHEY
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
No. 111. Argued December 16, 1904.-Decided January 9, 1905.
Where the highest court of the State holds that a statute fixing the liability
of common carriers applies to shipments made to points without the
State, this court must accept that construction of the statute
The police power of the State does not give it the right to violate any provision of the Federal Constitution.
The imposition, by a state statute, upon the initial or any connecting carrier,
of the duty of tracing the freight and informing the shipper, m writing,
when, where, how and by which carrier the freight was lost, damaged or
destroyed, and of giving the names of the parties and their official position, if any, by whom the truth of the facts set out in the information can
be established, is, when applied to interstate commerce, a violation of the

CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RY CO. v. MURPHEY
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

195

(

commerce clause of the Federal Constitution; and §§ 2317, 2318 of the
Code of Georgia of 1895, imposing such a duty on common carriers is void
as to shipments made from points in Georgia to other States. Richmond
& Alleghany R. R. Co. v. Tobacco Company, 169 U. S. 311 distinguished.

plaintiff in error brings this case here to review the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia, affirming a judgment of the trial court, in favor of the defendants in error, for
the damages sustained by them on the shipment of certain
grapes, as hereinafter more particularly stated. (First reported, 113 Georgia, 514, and again on appeal from judgment
on second trial, 116 Georgia, 863.)
The trial court gave judgment for the shippers of the grapes,
who were plaintiffs below, for the amount of the difference between the market price of the grapes as shipped in good order
and'the amount they actually received for the same in their
damaged condition, being the sum of $434.55. The action was
commenced in the Pike County Court, in the State of Georgia,
and the petition averred that on July 31, 1897, the petitioners
shipped a carload of grapes from Barnesville, Georgia, consigned to Rocco Brothers, Omaha, Nebraska, by way of the
Central of Georgia Railway Company The freight was to be
conveyed by more than two common carriers, the initial carrier
being the Central of Georgia Railway Company, and the freight
was shipped under a contract of shipment in which it was
provided that the responsibility of each carrier should cease
upon delivery to the next "in good order." The grapes were
greatly damaged on the route between Barnesville and Omaha,
and the damage resulted from the negligence of the common
carriers on the route. The petitioners applied to the plaintiff
in error, the initial carrier on the route, and served it with an
application in writing August 20, 1897, in which they requested
that the railway company should trace the freight and inform
the petitioners, in writing, when, how and by which carrier the
freight was damaged, and also that the company should furnish
the petitioners the names of the parties and their official position, if any, by whom the truth of the facts set forth in the
THE

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

information could be established. The railroad company failed
to trace the freight and give the information in writing within
the thirty days required by law, wherefore the petitioners
averred that the railroad company became indebted to the petitioners, to the amount of the damage to the grapes as stated.
The plaintiff in error demurred to the petition, the demurrer
was overruled, and it then put m an answer denying many of
the allegations of the petition. Upon the trial it appeared that
the grapes were shipped from Barnesville, Georgia, to Omaha,
Nebraska, and they were "routed" by the shippers over the
Central of Georgia, then the Western and Atlantic, then the
Nashville, Chattanooga and St. Louis, then the Louisville and
Nashville, and then the Wabash Railroads. The initial carrier,
the plaintiff in error, issued to the shippers, A. 0. Murphey and
Hunt, a bill of lading for the carload of grapes, which showed
the routing as above stated, and the bill was signed by Murphey
and Hunt, as the contract between the plaintiff in error and
themselves. It contained a promise "to carry (the grapes) to
said destination, if on its road, or to deliver to another carrier
on the route to said destination, subjedt in either instance to
the conditions named below, which are agreed to in consideration of the rate named." Omaha, Nebraska, is not on the road
of the plaintiff in error. Paragraph 5 of the bill of lading,
under which the shipment of grapes was made, reads as follows:
"5. That the responsibility, either as common carrier or
warehouseman, of each carrier over whose line the property
shipped hereunder shall be transported, shall cease as soon as
delivery is made to the next carrier or to the consignee; and
the liability of the said lines contracted with is several and not
joint, neither of the said carriers shall be responsible or liable
for any act, omission or negligence of the other carriers over
whose line said property is or is to be transported."
The grapes were carried under the contract contained m
the bill of lading, and arrived at Omaha, in the State of Nebraska, in a damaged condition.
The law under which the action was brought is found in

CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RY. CO. v. MURPHEY.
196 U. S.

197

Statement of the Case.

sections 2317 and 2318 of the Code of Georgia of 1895. Those
sections are set forth in full in the margin.'
On the twentieth day of August, 1897, the shippers availed
themselves of these provisions of the statute, and duly demanded of the plaintiff in error that it should trace the grapes
and inform the shippers, in writing, when, how and by which
carrier the grapes were damaged, and the names of the parties
and their official position, if any, by whom the truth of the
facts set out in the information could be established. They
also demanded that the information should be furnished within
thirty days from the date of the application. The plaintiff in
error, although it endeavored so to do, failed to furnish the
information within the time mentioned in the statute. It
offered to prove on the trial that the car in which the grapes
were originally shipped at Barnesville, on the road of the
plaintiff in error, reached Atlanta, Georgia, the end of the line
of the plaintiff in error, in due time, and that the grapes were
then in good order, and the car was promptly delivered to the
next connecting line, that is, the Western and Atlantic Railroad, and by that road it was delivered to the Nashville,
Chattanooga and St. Louis Railroad Company, at Nashville,
Tennessee, with the grapes in like good order and condition.
The evidence was rejected, the court holding that the plaintiff
ISEc. 2317. When any freight that has been shipped, to be conveyed by
two or more common carriers to its destination, where, under the contract
of shipment or by law, the responsibility of each or either shall cease upon
the delivery to the next "in good order" has been lost, damaged or destroyed, it ghall be the duty of the initial or any connecting carrier, upon
application by the shipper, consignee or their assigns, within thirty days
after application, to trace said freight and inform said applicant, in writing,
when, where, how and by which carrier said freight was lost, damaged or
destroyed, and the names of the parties and their official position, if any,
by whom the truth of the facts set out in said information can be established.
SEc. 2318. If the carrier to which application is made shall fail to trace
said freight and give said information, in writing, within the time prescribed,
then said carrier shall be liable for the value of the freight lost, damaged or
destroyed, in the same manner and to the same amount as if said loss, damage or destruction occurred on its line.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

196 U. S.

in error had failed to comply with the conditions of the statute,
and that it was therefore liable for the amount of the damage
sustained by the petitioners on whatsoever road the damage
actually occurred.
Mr John I. Hall, with whom Mr Henry C. Cunnsngham,
Mr Lloyd Cleveland and Mr Robert L. Berner were on the
brief, for plaintiff in errorSection 2317 of the Civil Code of Georgia imposes a burden
upon the carrier and interferes with its full freedom to contract with shippers with respect to confining its liability to its
own line and is void when applied to interstate commerce.
Under the Constitution any person, natural or artificial, may
engage in interstate commerce. Vance v Vandercook Co., 170
U S. 438, 455. The freedom of interstate commerce cannot
be affected by state legislation. Welton v Missouri, 91 U S.
282, Hall v De Curr, 95 U S. 485, Wabash v Illinois, 118 U S.
558, Railroad Co. v Husen, 95 U S. 465, 472, W U Tel. Co.
v Pendleton, 122 U S. 347, Fargo v Mchgan, 121 U S. 230;
.Rschmond R. R. Co. v Tobacco Co., 24 S. E. Rep. 261, distinguished, and see S. C., 169 U S. 311. Under § 2276, Civil
Code of Georgia, 1895, a carrier may by express contract limit
its liability to its own line. Central R. R. Co. v Avant, 80
Georgia, 195, Richmond & Danville v Shomo, 90 Georgia, 496.
The requirements of the statute involved are unreasonable and
as such interfere with interstate commerce and are void. C.,
C & St. L. R. R. v Illinos, 176 U S. 514, and cases cited.
The statute fixes a liability on the carrier without due process
of law Wallace v Railway Co., 94 Georgia, 732. An act of
legislature which arbitrarily makes one person liable for the
debts or responsible for the acts of another would deprive hin
of due process of law Camp v Rogers, 44 Connecticut, 291,
Colon v L?.sk, 47 N. E. Rep. (N. Y ) 302, People v O'Brien, 18
N. E. Rep. (N. Y.) 692, Towle v H. Mann, 53 Iowa, 42, Ohio
R. R. Co. v Lackey, 78 Illinois, 55, Beilenberg v Railway Co.,
20 Pac. Rep. 314. Nor does the statute permit any defense.

CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RY CO. v. MIJRPHEY
196 U. S.

199

Argument for Defendants in Error.

Mr W W Lambdin, with whom Mr Hoke Smith was on
the brief, for defendants in error.
Doubts are always resolved in favor of the constitutionality
of the statute. The violation must be clear and palpable in
order for the statute to be held unconstitutional. Cooley's
Constitutional Limitations, 6th ed., 216, Ogden v Saunders, 12
Wheat. 213, 270; Munn v Illinois, 94 U S. 113, 125, Cooper
v Telfasr, 4 Dall. 14, 19; Plumley v Massachusetts, 155 U S.
461, 479; Cary v Giles, 9 Georgia, 253, 258.
Under the facts in this case, the shipment of grapes was
damaged by the negligence of one of the carriers, which handled
the shipment. Central &c. Ry. Co. v Murphey, 113 Georgia,
514, 520.
The initial carrier having failed to trace the freight and give
to the shipper the required information, it became "liable for
the value of the freight lost, damaged or destroyed in the same
manner, and to the same extent as if said loss, damage or
destruction occurred on its own line." The law under the facts
in this case imputes the negligence to the defendant company,
and makes the same, in effect, its negligence. Code of Georgia
of 1895, § 2318, case below, 113 Georgia, 514, 520.
This statute was before the state court in Southern Ry. Co.
v Ragsdale, 119 Georgia, 773, and the ruling made in this case
was adhered to. A strong intimation was given in this last
case to the effect that if the railroad company should prove that
it was impossible for it to trace the freight and give the required information within the time provided, such would be a
defense to the action. In the case at bar, however, the court
herd affirmatively that the facts offered in evidence by the
defendant were not sufficient to make out such a defense.
A railroad company is not compelled to make a contract to
forward goods beyond its own line. Coles v Railroad Co., 86
Georgia, 251, A., T &c. R. R. Co. v Railroad Co., 110 U S.
668, 680. But when it receives goods consigned to a point
beyond its own line, it undertakes to transport them to their
destination, and if the goods are lost or damaged, it will be

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

196 U. S.

liable therefor, in the absence of a contract otherwise limiting
its liability Falvey v Railroad Co., 76 Georgia, 597, Hutchinson on Carriers, 2d ed., §§ 145, 152. However, it may by express contract, limit its liability to its own line. Central Ry.
Co. v Avant, 80 Georgia, 195, R. & D R. R. Co. v Shomo, 90
Georgia, 500.
Such being the state of the law in Georgia, and the shipper
not being able to hold the carrier with which he dealt liable,
on account of the limitations which were put in the contracts
of shipment in pursuance of the decisions cited supra and the
shipper not being able to discover how or where his goods were
damaged, and being thus entirely helpless in the premisesall the avenues of information being closed to him-the legislature of Georgia came to his relief and gave him a remedy by
enacting the statute under consideration.
The contract under which the goods were shipped in this
case was made in Georgia, and is governed by the laws of that
State. Liverpool &c. Co. v Insurance Co., 129 U S. 397
The defendant railroad company "being affected with a
public interest," and being a Georgia corporation, and being
clothed with special privileges, is therefore subject to legislative control in the interest of the public. Munn v Illinois, 94
U. S. 113, Ga. R. R. Co. v Smith, 128 U S. 174, Chicago &c.
Ry. Co. v Pullman Car Co., 139 U S. 79, 90; Smyth v Ames,
169 U S. 466, 544.
The statute does not violate the commerce clause of the
Federal Constitution, nor does it attempt to regulate mterstate commerce. States may, in the exercise of their reserved
powers, enact laws which, though they incidentally relate to
and affect commerce between the States, yet are not to be considered as regulations of that commerce within the meaning
of the Constitution of the United States. Sherlock v Alling,
93 U S. 99, 103, Peik v Chicago &c., Ry. Co. et al., 94 U S. 164,
Bagg v Wilmington &c. Ry. Co., 109 N. Car. 279; Kidd v. Pearson,
128 U S. 1, 16,Fry v State, 63 Indiana, 552, Williams v Fears,
179 U S. 270; S. C., affirming 110 Georgia, 584, Smith v Ala-

CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RY CO. v. MURPHEY
196 U. S.

201

Argument for Defendants in Error.

bama, 124 U S. 465, Nashville &c. Ry. Co. v Alabama, 128
U S. 96, 100; Missou &c. Ry. Co. v Haber, 169 U S. 613, 626,
New York &c. R. R. Co. v New York, 165 U S. 628, Richmond
&c. R. R. Co. v PattersonTobacco Co., 169 U S. 311, affirming
S. C., 24 S. E. Rep. (Va.) 261, St. Joseph &c. R. R. Co. v
Palmer (Neb.), 22 L. R. A. 335, Hart v Railway Co., 69 Iowa,
485, McCann v Eddy, 133 Missouri, 59; Missour &c. Ry. Co.
v McCann, 174 U S. 580.
The statute m question comports with sound public policy
and with responsibility placed upon carriers by the common
law and the statutes and decisions of the various States and of
the United States. The shipper and the carrier are on an
unequal footing, and the carrier is therefore held to rigid responsibility Code of Georgia of 1895, § 2264, Central Ry. Co.
v Hasselkus, 91 Georgia, 382, Penn. R. R. Co. v Hughes, 191
U S. 477, 489; Balt. & Ohw R. R. Co. v Vozgt, 176 U S. 498,
505, New York &c. R. R. Co. v Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357, Bank
of Ky. v Adams Ex. Co., 93 U S. 174, Railway Co. v Stevens,
95 U S. 655, Missouri &c. R. R. Co. v McCann, 174 U S. 580;
Brockway v Express Co., 168 Massachusetts, 257, Ohw &c.
Ry. Co. v Tabor, 98 Kentucky, 503, Cent. R. R. Co. v Lzpp?nan,"110 Georgia, 665.
The United States Supreme Court will generally adopt the
construction placed upon a statute of a State by the court
of last resort of such State. Sioux City Trust Co. v Trust
Co., 172 U S. 642, Postal Tel. Cable Co. v. Adams, 155 U S.
688, Geer v Connectwut, 161 U. S. 519; Railroad Tax Cases,
92 U. S. 575.
The statute under consideration facilitates the safe transportation of goods, and is therefore constitutional. Chcago
&c. Ry. Co. v Solan, 169 U S. 133.
The regulation of the enjoyment of the relative rights and
performance of the duties of all persons within the jurisdiction
of a State, belongs primarily to such State under its reserved
power to provide for the safety of all persons and property
within its limits. Missouri &c. Ry. Co. v Haber, 169 U S. 613,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

635, Lake Shore &c. Ry. Co. v Ohio, 173 U S. 299, citing 7
Cush. 53, 85, Cooley's Const. Lim., 6th ed., 715.
Plaintiff in error's contention that the statute deprives it of
its property without due process of law, is not well taken. The
railroad company was duly served with notice and process
and has had its day in court. Chicago &c. Ry. Co. v Zernwke,
183 U S. 582, 587, Missouri Ry. Co. v Mackey, 127 U. S. 205,
Minneapolis &c. Ry. Co. v Herrick, 127 U S. 210; Mo. Pac.
Ry. Co. v Humes, 115 U S. 512, Walker v Saumnet, 92 U. S.
90; St. Louss &c. Ry. Co. v Mathews, 165 U S. 1, Jones v.
Brim, 165 U S. 180.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
The Supreme Court of Georgia has held in this case that the
statute applies to shipments of freight destined to points outside, as well as to those inside the State, and we must accept
that construction of the state statute. The question for us to
decide is whether the statute, when applied to an interstate
shipment of freight, is an interference with or a regulation of
interstate commerce, and therefore void.
We think the imposition upon the initial or any connecting carrier, or the duty of tracing the freight and informing
the shipper, in writing, when, where, how and by which carrier
the freight was lost, damaged or destroyed, and of giving the
names of the parties and their official position, if any, by whom
the truth of the facts set out in the information can be established, is, when applied to interstate commerce, a violation of
the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution. The Supreme Court of Georgia has held that a carrier has in that State
the right to make a contract with the shipper, to limit its liability as a carrier to damage or loss occurring on its own line.
Central Railroad Co. v Avant, 80 Georgia, 195, Richmond &
Danville Railroad Co. v Shomo, 90 Georgia, 496.
Whether the State would have the right to prohibit such a

CENThRAL OF GEORGIA RY
196 U. S.

CO. v. INURPHEY.

203

Opinion of the Court.

contract with regard to interstate commerce need not therefore be considered. It has not done so, but on the contrary its
highest court has recognized the validity of such a contract.
Without the provisions of the statute in question, the plaintiff
in error would not be liable to the shippers in this case, if,
without negligence, they delivered the consignment in good
condition to the succeeding carrier. This they offered to prove
was the case. But if this statute be valid, this limitation of
liability can only be availed of by the railroad company by
complying with its provisions. In other words, before it can
avail itself of the exemption from liability beyond its own line,
provided for by its valid contract, the initial or any connecting
carrier must comply with the terms of the statute, and must
within thirty days after notification obtain and give to the
shipper the information provided for therein. This is certainly a direct burden upon interstate commerce, for it affects
most vitally the law in relation to that commerce, and prevents
the exemption provided by a legal contract between the parties from taking effect, except upon terms which we hold to
be a regulation of interstate commerce. It is said that the
reason for the passage of such an act lies in the fact that, as a
general rule, shippers under such a contract as the one in
question are very much inconvenienced in obtaining evidenc4
of the loss or damage, where it occurred on another road than
that of the initial carrier. It is contended that under such
contracts, there being great difficulty in identifying the particular carrier upon whose road the loss occurred, it is reasonable to make the initial or other connecting carrier liable
therefor, unless such carrier furnish the information provided
for in the statute.
We can readily see that a provision, such as is contained in
the statute in question, would be a very convenient one to
shippers of freight through different States. And a provision
making the initial or any connecting carrier liable in any event
for any loss or damage sustained by the shipper, on account of
the negligence of any one of the connecting lines, would also

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

be convenient for the shippers; but it would hardly be maintained, when applied to the interstate shipment of freight,
that a state statute to that effect would not violate the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution. The provision of
this statute, while not quite so onerous, is yet a very plain
burden upon interstate commerce. It is also said that it is
so much easier for the initial or other connecting carrier to
obtain the information provided for in the statute than it is
for the shipper, that a statute requiring such information to
be obtained under the penalty of such carrier being liable for
the damage sustained, ought to be upheld for that very reason.
Assuming the fact that the carrier might more readily obtain
the information than the shipper, we do not think it is material
upon the question under consideration. We are not, however,
at all clear in regard to the fact. The loss or damage might
occur on the line of a connecting carrier, outside the State
where the shipment was made, (as was the case here), and we
do not perceive that the initial carrier has any means of obtaming the information desired, not open to the shipper. The
railroad company, receiving the freight from the shipper, has
no means of compelling the servants of any connecting carrier
to answer any question in regard to the shipment or to acknowledge its receipt by such carrier, or to state its condition
when received. And when it is known by the servants of the
connecting company that the object of such questions is to
place in the hands of the shipper information upon which its
liability for the loss or damage to the freight is to be based, it
would seem plain that the information would not be very
readily given, and the initial or other carrier could not compel
it. The effect of such a statute is direct and immediate upon
interstate commerce. It directly affects the liability of the
carrier of freight destined to points outside the State, with
regard to the transportation of articles of commerce, it prevents a valid contract of exemption from taking effect, except
upon a very onerous condition, and it is not of that class of
state legislation which has been held to be rather an aid to

CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RY CO. v. MURPHEY.
196 U. S.

205

Opinon of the Court.

than a burden upon such commerce. The statute in question
prevents the carrier from availing itself of a valid contract,
unless such carrier comply with the provisions of the statute
by obtaining information which it has no means of compelling
another carrier to give, and yet if the information is not obtamed the carrier is to be held liable for the negligence of
another carrier over whose conduct it has no control. This is
not a reasonable regulation in aid of interstate commerce, but
a direct and immediate burden upon it.
The case of Rwhmond & Allegheny Railroad Co. v Tobacco
Company, 169 U S. 311, is not an authority against these
views, but, on the contrary, it supports and exemplifies them.
Section 1295 of the Virginia Code of 1887, was held not to
be a regulation of interstate commerce, because it simply
established a rule of evidence ordaining the character of proof
by which a carrier might show that, although it received goods
for transportation beyond its own line, nevertheless, by agreement, its liability was limited to its own line. The statute
left the carrier free to make any limitation as to its liability
on an interstate shipment, beyond its own line, as it might
deem proper, provided only the evidence of the contract was
in writing and signed by the shipper. The provision of the
Virginia statute that, although the contract in writing provided for therein was made in fact, yet "if such thing be lost
or injured such common carrier shall himself be liable therefor,
unless, within a reasonable time after demand made, he shall
give satisfactory proof to the consignor that the loss or injury
did not occur while the thing was in his charge," is a materially
different provision from the one under consideration. A provision in a statute may be deemed a reasonable one, and not a
regulation of interstate commerce, where the statute simply
imposes a duty bpon the carrier, when the loss has not happened
on the carrier's own line, to inform the shipper of that fact
within a reasonable time, and this court has said in the above
case that such a provision is manifestly within the power of
the State to adopt. This is very different from the duty un-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

posed upon the carrier by the statute in question here, which
is much more onerous, and imposes a liability, unless the detailed information provided for m the statute is obtained and
given to the shipper.
The case of Chwago, Milwaukee &c. Railway Company v.
Solan, 169 U S. 133, holds the same general principle as that
involved in the case just cited. To the same effect are the
cases referred to in the opinion of Mr. Justice Gray in the Solan
case. It is idle to attempt to comment upon the various cases
decided by this court relating to this clause of the Federal
Constitution. We are familiar with them, and we are certain
that our decision in this case does not run counter to the
principles decided m any of those cases. The statute here
considered we think plainly imposes a burden upon the carrier
of interstate commerce and is not an aid to it, but in its direct
and immediate effect it is quite the contrary
The power to regulate the relative rights and duties of all
persons and corporations within the limits of the State cannot
extend so far as to thereby regulate interstate commerce.
The police power of the State does not give it the right to
violate any provision of the Federal Constitution. Being of
the opinion that the statute in question when applied to an
interstate shipment is a regulation of interstate commerce, we
must hold the statute, so far as it affects such shipments, to
be void on that account. The judgment of the Supreme
Court of Georgia is reversed and the case remanded for such
further proceedings as may be cousistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

