ROONEY v. NORTH DAKOTA.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

appear that the United States was dealing with a matter upon
which it had all the knowledge that any one had, that it was
contracting for the use of a process, which, however much it
now may be impugned, the United States would not have
used when it did but for the communications of the claimant,
and that it was contracting for the process which it actually
used-a process which has revolutionized the naval armor of
the world.
Judgment affirmed.

ROONEY v. NORTH DAKOTA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH DAKOTA.
No.123.

Argued Jauuary 12,1905.-Decided January 23,1905.

By chapter 99, March 9, 1903, Laws of North Dakota, the statutes in force
when plaintiff in error committed the crime for which he was tried, and
when the verdict of guilty was pronounced were altered to the following
effect: Close confinement in the penitentiary for not less than six or more
than nine months after judgment and before execution was substituted
for confinement in the county jail for not less than three nor more than
six months after judgment and before execution, and hanging within an
inclosure at the penitentiary by the warden or his deputy was substituted
for hanging by the sheriff in the yard of the jail of the county in which
the conviction occurred.
Held that the changes looked at in the light of reason and common sense are
to be taken as favorable to the plaintiff in error, and that a statute which
mitigates the rigor of the law in force at the time the crime was committed cannot be regarded as ex post facto with reference to that crime.
Held that close confinement does not necessarily mean solitary confinement and the difference m phraseology between close confinement and
confinement is immaterial, each only meaning such custody as will insure
the production of the criminal at the time set for execution.
Held that the place of punishment by death -within the limits of the State
is not of practical consequence to the criminal.

THIS writ of error brings in question a final judgment of the
Supreme Court of the State of North Dakota, affirming the

OCTOBER TERAI, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

judgment of an inferior court of that State, by which, pursuant
to the verdict of a jury, the plaintiff in error, John Rooney,
was sentenced to death for the crime of murder in the first degree.
The sole question upon which the plaintiff in error seeks
the judgment of this court, and the only one that will be noticed, is whether the statute under which he was sentenced
was ex post facto and therefore unconstitutional in its application to his case. His counsel agrees that the judgment must
stand if the statute be constitutional.
Before as well as after the passage of the statute under
which the sentence was pronounced the punishment prescribed by the State for murder in the first degree was death
or imprisonment in the penitentiary for life. Rev Codes,
North Dakota, 1899, § 7068.
By the statutes in force at the time of the commission of
the offense, August 26, 1902, as well as when the verdict of
guilty was rendered, it was provided that when a judgment
of death is rendered the judge must deliver to the sheriff of the
county a warrant stating the conviction and judgment, and
appointing a day on which the judgment is to be executed,
"which must not be less than three months after the day in
which judgment is entered, and not longer than six months
thereafter," § 8305, that when there was no jail within the
county, or whenever the officer having in charge any person
under judgment of death deemed the jail of the county where
the conviction was had insecure, unfit or unsafe for any cause,
he could confine the convicted person in the jail of any other
convenient county of the State, § 8320; that the judgment of
death should be executed within the walls or yard of the jail
of the county in which the conviction was had, or within some
convenient inclosure within such county, §8321, and that
judgment of death must be executed by the sheriff of the
county where the conviction was had, or by his deputy, one
of whom at least must be present at the execution. Rev.
Codes of North Dakota, 1899, §8322.

ROONEY v. NORTh DAKOTA.
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

The sentence of death was pronounced March 31, 1903.
Prior to that date, namely, on March 9, 1903, the legislature
-without changing the law prescribing death or imprisonment for life as the punishment for the crime of murder in the
first degree-passed an act providing that all executions should
take place at the penitentiary, and amending certain sections
of the Revised Codes of 1899. By that act it was provided.
"§ 1. The mode of inflicting the punishment of death shall
be by hanging by the neck until the person is dead, and the
warden of the North Dakota penitentiary, or in case of his
death, inability or absence, the deputy warden shall be the
executioner; and when any person shall be sentenced, by any
court of the State having competent jurisdiction, to be hanged
by the neck until dead, such pun'ishment shall only be inflicted
within the walls of the North Dakota penitentiary at Bismarck,
North Dakota, within an enclosure to be prepared for that
purpose under the direction of the warden of the penitentiary
and the board of trustees thereof, which enclosure shall be
higher than the gallows, and so constructed as to exclude
public view"
"§ 3. When a person is sentenced to death, all writs for
the execution of the death penalty shall be directed to the
sheriff by the court issuing the same, and the sheriff of the
county wherein the prisoner has been convicted and sentenced,
shall, within the next ten days thereafter, in as private and
secure a manner as possible to be done, convey the prisoner to
the North Dakota penitentiary, where the said prisoner shall
be received by the warden, superintendent or keeper thereof,
and securely kept m close confinement until the day designated
"
for the execution.
"§ 14. That section 8305 of the Revised Codes of 1899,
relating to judgment of death, warrant to execute, be amended
so as to read as follows: §8305. When the judgment of death
is rendered the judge must sign and deliver to the sheriff of the
county a warrant duly attested by the clerk under the seal of
the court, stating the conviction and judgment, and appointing
VOL. oxovI-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

196 U. S.

a day upon which the judgment is to be executed, which must
not be less than six months after the day in which the judgment is entered, and not longer than nine months thereafter."
"§ 16. All acts and parts of acts in conflict with the provision of this act are hereby repealed." Laws of North Dakota,
1903, c. 99, p. 119.
By the sentence it was ordered that the accused be conveyed to the state penitentiary, "there to be kept in close
confinement until October the ninth 1903," and, within an
inclosure in that building to be erected for the purpose, be
hung by the warden of the penitentiary, or m case of his
inability to act or his absence therefrom, by the deputy warden,
before the hour of sunrise on the day fixed for the execution.
Mr B. F Spalding, with whom Mr Seth Newman was on
the brief, for plaintiff in errorSection 10, Art. I, U S. Const., provides "No State
ex post facto law,
shall pass any
The punishment for murder in the first degree, where the
death penalty is determined upon by the jury, under the law
in force when this offense was committed, and the punishment
fixed by the statute of March 9, 1903, was altered. Three
months are added to the term of imprisonment before the
execution. Under the former law the imprisonment before
the execution, in case there was no jail in the county, in which
the conviction was had, or where the jail in such county was
deemed insecure, unfit or unsafe, was in another convenient
county in the State. Under the latter law such imprisonment
is in the penitentiary of the State, and in close confinement.
Under the former law the defendant was to be executed in
the county m which he was convicted, by the sheriff of such
county, or his deputy Under the latter law, the defendant is
to be executed at the penitentiary of the State by the warden
or his deputy Plaintiff in error was sentenced under the
statute of 1903, which is ex post facto and void.

ROONEY v. NORTH DAKOTA.
196 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Section 8305, Rev Codes N. Dak., 1899, provides that the
-day appointed on which the judgment of death shall be exemust not be less than three months after
cuted "
the day in which the judgment is entered, and not longer than
six months thereafter," as amended by the statute of 1903, it
provides that the day appointed on which the judgment of
death shall be executed "must not be less than six months
after the day m which the judgment is entered, and not longer
than nine months thereafter."
If the imprisonment under the latter statute was to be in
the county jail, as under the former, the statute would be ex
post facto, because the punishment is increased by the three
months' added imprisonment. Ex parte Mealey, 134 U S. 160;
People v McNulty, 28 Pac. Rep. (Cal.) 816.
Section 3 of the act of 1903 provides that persons sentenced
to death shall, within ten days thereafter, be conveyed to the
North Dakota penitentiary, "and securely kept in close con"
finement until the day designated for the execution.
Imprisonment in the penitentiary as compared with imprisonment in the county jail is an increased and greater punishment. Case supra.
Mr Emerson H. Smith, with whom Mr W H. Barnett was
on the brief, for defendant in errorThe statute of 1903 is not void as ex post facto; it is an additional bulwark in favor of personal security Calder v Bull,
3 Dall. 386. For definitions of ex post facto laws in which
increase of punishment is an element, see United States v Hall,
26 Fed. Cas. 84, S. C., 6 Cranch, 171, King v Missouri, 107
U S. 221, Hopt v Utah, 110 U. S. 574, In re Medley, 134 U S.
160; Cummngs v Misouri, 4 Wall. 277, Ex parte Garland, 4
Wall. 333, State v Hayes, 140 N. Y 484. The act is in mitigation of the death penalty any change in which, short of death
itself, is considered a mitigation, and postponement of the
time of its infliction is also a mitigation. Commonwealth v
Gardner, 11 Gray, 438, Commonwealth v Wyman, 12 Cush. 239;

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

Cooley on Const. Lim. § 272, In re Tyson, 13 Colorado, 487.
If any shortening of life is to the convict's disadvantage any
extension of life must be considered to his advantage. Terntory v Miller, 4 Dakota, 173, 181; State v Rooney, 95 N. W
Rep. (N. Dak.) 517
The fact that the convict is kept in the penitentiary in close
confinement instead of m the county jail does not increase the
severity of the punishment. The word "close" is not necesIf the statute does not
sarily synonymous with "solitary"
no
require solitary imprisonment there is presumption that the
officers of the penitentiary will make the confinement solitary
Bolden v State, 137 U S. 483.
The fact that the execution is to be at the penitentiary
instead of in the county m which the conviction was had does
not make the statute ex post facto. In re Tyson, 30 Colorado,
487
'Whether the change in this law works to the advantage
or disadvantage of the convict, z. e., which is the severer
punishment, imprisonment for three months longer before hangmng, under the new law, or death by hanging three months
earlier, under the old law, is a question of law for the court
to decide. People v Hayes, 140 N. Y 488, and other cases
cited in 95 N. W Rep. 518. Hartung v People, 22 N. Y.
695, distinguished.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

It appears from the statement of the case that the statute
in force when the sentence of death was pronounced differed
from those m force when the crime was committed and when
the verdict was rendered, m these particulars:
1. By the later law, close confinement m the penitentiary
for not less than six months and not more than nine months,
after judgment and before execution, was substituted for confinement in the county jail for not less than three months nor
more than six months after judgment and before execution.

ROONEY v. NORTH DAKOTA.
196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

2. By the later law, hanging, within an inclosure at the
penitentiary by the warden or his deputy, was substituted for
hanging by the sheriff within the yard of the jail of the county
in which the conviction occurred.
We are of opinion that in the particulars just mentioned the
statute of 1903 is not repugnant to the constitutional provision
declaring that no State shall pass an ex post facto law It did
not create a new offense nor aggravate or increase the enormity
of the crime for the commission of which the accused was convicted, nor require the infliction upon the accused of any
greater or more severe punishment than was prescribed by
law at the time of the commission of the offense. The changes,
looked at in the light of reason and common sense and applied
to the present case, are to be taken as favorable rather than
as unfavorable to him. It may be sometimes difficult to say
whether particular changes in the law are or are not in mitigation of the punishment for crimes previously committed.
But it must be taken that there is such mitigation when by
the later law there is an enlargement of the period of confinement prior to the actual execution of the criminal by hanging.
The giving, by the later statute, of three months' additional
time to live, after the rendition of judgment, was clearly to
his advantage, for the court must assume that every rational
person desires to live as long as he may If the shortening of
the time of confinement, whether in the county jail or in the
penitentiary before execution, would have increased, as undoubtedly it would have increased, the punishment to the
disadvantage of a criminal sentenced to be hung, the enlargement of such time must be deemed a change for his benefit.
So that a statute which mitigates the rigor of the law in force
at the time a crime was committed cannot be regarded as ex
post facto with reference to that crime. Calder v Ball, 3 Dall.
386, 391, Chase, J., Story's Cost. § 1345, Cooley's Const. Lim.
*267, Commonwealth v Gardner, 11 Gray, 438, 443, 1 Bishop's
Crim. Law, § 280. Besides, the extension of the time to live,
given by the later law, increased the opportunity of the ac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

cused to obtain a pardon or commutation from the Governor
of the State before his execution.
Nor was the punishment, in any substantial sense, increased
or made more severe by substituting close confinement in the
penitentiary prior to execution for confinement m the county
jail. It is contended that "close confinement" means "solitary confinement," and Medley's Case, 134 U. S. 160, is cited
in support of the contention that the new law increased the
punishment to the disadvantage of the accused. We do not
think that the two phrases import the same kind of punishment. Although solitary confinement may involve close confinement, a criminal could be kept m close confinement without
being subjected to solitary confinement. It cannot be supposed that any criminal would be subjected to solitary confinement when the mandate of the law was simply to keep
him in close confinement.
Again, it is said that the law m force when the crime was
committed only required confinement, whereas the later statute required close confinement. But this difference of phraseology is not material. "Confinement" and "close confinement" equally mean such custody, and only such custody, as
will safely secure the production of the body of the prisoner
on the day appointed for his execution.
The objection that the later law required the execution of
the sentence of death to take place within the limits of the
penitentiary rather than m the county jail, as provided in
the previous statute, is without merit. However material the
place of confinement may be in case of some crimes not involvmg life, the place of execution, when the punishment is
death, within the limits of the State, is of no practical consequence to the criminal. On such a matter he is not entitled
to be heard.
The views we have expressed are in accord with those announced by the Supreme Court of North Dakota. State v.
Rooney, 12 N. Dak. 144, 152.
We are of opinion that the law of 1903 did not alter the

UNITED STATES v. CROSLEY
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

situation to the material disadvantage of the criminal, and,
therefore, was not ex post facto when applied to his case in the
particulars mentioned.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. CROSLEY
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 99. Submitted December 9,1904.-Decided January 23,190.
While the court may not add to or take from the terms of a statute, the
main purpose of construction is to give effect to the legislative intent
as expressed in the act under consideration.
The Navy Personnel Act undertook to equalize the pay of naval officers
with those officers of the Army of equal rank as to duties properly required of a naval officer, and it has no operation to provide pay for
services peculiar to the Army.
A lieutenant in the Navy serving as aid to a rear-admiral is entitled to the
additional two hundred dollars allowed to a lieutenant serving as aid to
a major-general under § 1261, Rev. Stat., but he is not entitled to the
mounted pay allowed to the army lieutenant serving as such aid under
§ 1301, Army Regulations.

THIS case was tried in the Court of Claims upon a petition
filed to recover pay for services m the United States Navy,
rendered by the defendant in error, while he was a lieutenant
of the junior grade and acting as aid to Rear-Admiral Watson,
then serving with the rank of rear-admiral in the nine higher
numbers of that grade, and, under section 1466 of the Revised
Statutes, entitled to rank with a major-general in the Army
The claimant alleges that he should have received from
the first day of July, 1899, to the eighth day of September,
1899,-

