McCAFFREY v. MANOGUE.
Syllabus.

196 U. S.

MR.

JUSTICE MOKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case was submitted with Plansgan v Sierra County.
It is also an action for the recovery of a sum of $2,100, alleged
to be due for license tax, and $50 damages. The taxes were
unposed under an ordinance of the county of Plumas, substantially similar to the ordinance passed on in Flanigan v
Sierra County. The action was brought in the Superior Court
of Plumas County and removed, upon the petition of the petitioners herein, to the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of California. In that court, petitioners demurred to the complaint, which, being overruled, and they declining to answer,
judgment was taken against them by default. It was affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The questions are identical with those passed on in Flansgan
v Sierra County, and on the authority of that case the
Judgment s reversed and cause remanded for further proceed'Ings.

McCAFFREY v. MANOGUE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 131.

Argued January 17,18, 1905.-Decided February 20, 1905.

The policy of the law in favor of the heir yields to the intention of the testator
if clearly expressed or manifested. The rule of law that a devise of
lands without words of limitation or description gives a life estate only,
does not apply, and devises will be held to be of the fee, where it is plain
that the testator's intention was to dispose of his whole estate equally
between his heirs, and there is no residuary clause indicating that he intended passing less than all of his estate, and all of his heirs at law are
devisees under the will.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

THE question involved in this case is the construction of the
will of Hugh McCaffrey, deceased. It was duly admitted to
probate and recorded in the Supreme Court of the District.
It is as follows:
"WASHINGTON, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA,

"April Thsrteth, 1896.
"In the name of God, being now in good health and sound
in mind and body I hereby certify and declare this to be my
last will and testament, hereby annulling and revoking any
and all wills previously made.
"I give and bequeath to my daughter, Mary A. Quigley,
house number 301 at southwest corner of 11th and C streets
southeast, being in lot number 5, in square 970, with the store
and dwelling, stock and fixtures, and lot on which it stands,
also houses numbers 13 and 15 6th street southeast with lots
on which they stand, being parts of lots 19 and 20 in square 841,
also any money in bank to my account at the time of my death,
also any money due to me, also any building association stock.
She is to pay funeral expences and any other legal debts I
may owe, also to care for my lot in Mount Olivet cemetrey
"I give and bequeath to my son, James B. McCaffrey, house
number six hundred and two (602) East Capitol street and lot
on which it stands, being in lot number ten (10) in square
number eight hundred and sixty-eight (868).
"To my son, William H. McCaffrey, I give and bequeath
house 604 East Capitol street, being in lot number ten (10) in
square number eight hundred and sixty-eight (868) and lot
on which it stands.
"To my daughter, Lizzie Manogue, I give and bequeath
house number fourteen hundred and twenty-three (1423)
Corcoran street, N. W., and lot on which it stands, being lot
number fifty-four (54) in square number two hundred and
eight (208).
"2. To my son, Francis T MeCaffrey, I give and bequeath
house five hundred and nineteen (519) East Capitol street, and

AIcCAFFREY v. MANOGUE.
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

lot on which it stands, being part of lot number (20) in square
eight hundred and forty-one (841), also my horse and buggy
"And to my grandson, Frank Foley, I give and bequeath
house number one hundred and twenty-one (121) Eleventh
street, S. E., being in lot number fourteen (14), square number
nine hundred and sixty-eight (968), and lot on which it stands.
"To my grandson Joseph Quigley, I give and bequeath my
watch and chain.
"I hereby name and appoint as executors of this my last
will and testament, John E. Herrell and Patrick Maloney
"All the real estate herein described is located in the city
of Washington, District of Columbia.
"HUGH MCCAFFRBY.

[SEAL.]"

The devisees in the will were the only heirs of the testator.
On the tenth of July, 1897, Mary A. Quigley, died leaving
surviving four children, the appellants Catherine L., Margaret,
Mary and Joseph Quigley Edward Quigley, her husband, also
an appellant, survived her. She left a will, which was duly
admitted to record, by which she devised all her estate to
Catherine L. and Edward Quigley in trust for her children.
Francis T. McCaffrey, son of Hugh, and one of the devisees in
the latter's will, died October 20, 1898, leaving as heirs at law
his brothers and sisters, the children of his deceased sister,
Mary A. Quigley, and his nephew, Frank Foley He left a
will, by which he devised and bequeathed all of the property
to his sister, Lizzie C. Manogue, and his brothers, William A.
and James B. McCaffrey, "absolutely and in fee simple, according to the nature of the property, as tenants in common,
but not as joint tenants." At the time of his death he was
seized and possessed of the real estate devised to hun by his
father.
James B. McCaffrey has sold and conveyed the lot devised
to him to the respondent George W Manogue. Upon an attempt to sell the property devised by Francis T. MeCaffrey a
doubt was raised as to the extent of the interest devised to him

OCTOBER TERAM, 1904.
Argument for Appellants.

196 U. S.

and the other devisees by the will of H. McCaffrey, whether an
estate for life or in fee simple. This suit was brought "to have
it determined what estate each of the said devisees took
thereby, and to have their title quieted as against any person
or persons who may claim adversely to the same as heirs of
said Hugh McCaffrey, or under such heirs."
It was decreed by the trial court that only life estates were
devised by the will, and the decree was affirmed by the Court
of Appeals. 22 App. D C. 385.
Mr Arthur A. Btrney, with whom Mr 0 B. Hallam and
Mr Henry F Woodard were on the brief, for appellants:
In McCaffrey v Little, 20 App. D C. 116, the main question
herein was before the court but not decided. Mrs. Quigley
took a fee simple. Collier's Case, 6 Coke, 16, King v Ackerman, 2 Black, 408, Doe v Holmes, 8 Dunf. & East, 1, Sharswood's Blackstone, citing Goodlittle v Maddern, 7 East. 500;
Doe v Clarke, 8 New Rep. 349; Roe v Dan, 3 Man. & Sel.
522, Baddeley v Leapzngwell, Wilm. Notes, 235. The Court
of Appeals held that because the proofs taken by appellees
showed that out of the personal estate bequeathed to Mrs.
Quigley "a large surplus must necessarily remain to her after
the discharge of all possible demands and expenses," the charge
should be construed as upon the personal estate and not the
person. But the court had no right to look beyond the face
of the will in determining its construction, and should have
rejected the testimony as wholly incompetent to diminish the
estate which the fact of the personal charge defined as created
in Mrs. Quigley by the terms of the devise. The court cited
no authority for its reception of this evidence and ignored
authoritative decisions in doing so. King v Ackerman, 2
Black, 408, Barber v Pittsburg &c. Railway, 166 U S. 109;
Allen v Allen, 18 How 385, West v Fitz, 109 Illinois, 438,
Powell on Devises, Jarman, ยง 379, 2 Jarman on Wills.
If the limited construction of the several devises to life
estates only is declared, it must result that the testator,

McCAFFREY v. 1IANOGUE.
196 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

Hugh McCaffrey, died intestate as to the remainder after
the expiration of the life estates, for there is no residuary
devise, or other language to dispose of the remainders. It is
unreasonable to suppose that this was the testator's intention.

Kennedy v Alexander, 21 App. D. C. 424, Hardenburgh

v Ray, 151 U S. 112, Abbott v Essex Co., 18 How 202. The
other devisees took fee simples also.
Where from the fact of such condition in one of several
devises, it is manifest the testator intended to pass a fee in
such devise, the fact that in the others he has used similar
terms (although without attaching conditions), will, in the
absence of words of contrary import, establish a like intent
in those other devises, and the beneficiaries will take in fee.
Cases cited supra and Cook v Holmes, 11 Massachusetts, 529;
Butler v Butler, 2 Mackey, 96, 104, White v Creushaw, 5
Mackey, 113.
Mr Edwnn Forrestand Mr A. A. Hoehling, Jr.,for appellees
A devise without words of limitation or inheritance passes
only a life estate. The authorities sustaining it are uniform
in every jurisdiction, and the same rule of decision obtains
in the District of Columbia, with the exception only of cases
coming within the provisions of the Code, of which, however,
the case at bar is not one. 2 Jarman on Wills, 267, 2 Redfield
on Wills, 321, Farrarv Ayres, 5 Pick. 404, McAleer v Schneider, 2 App. D. C. 461, McCaffrey v Little, 20 App. D C. 116,
Wrght v Denn, 10 Wheat. 204, 236. And this is so notwithstanding the testator in the will may have declared an intention to dispose of his whole estate, although here there is
absolutely no expression by testator of any intention to dispose by will of his entire estate in the property, nor does he
attempt to dispose by will of his entire property
The Quigley devise cannot be enlarged by legal implication
to a fee. The directions to her were not a charge upon her
devise. Buggens v Yeates, 8 Vin. Abr. 72, 1 Jarman on Wills,
387, Wrght v Denn, 10 Wheat. 204, 236, Jackson v Harms,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

8 Johnson, 142, Burlingham v Belding, 21 Wend. 463, Turnbake v Parker,2 MacA. 444, Moor v Mellor, 5 Durnf. & East.
284, S. C., 1 Bos. & Pul. 558, S. C., 2 Bos. & Pul. 247, 253.
Even if the Quigley devise is so enlarged the other devises
in the will are not aided thereby
MR.

JUSTICE

MOKENNA, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
It will be observed that the devises are expressed in exactly
the same way To Mary A. Quigley, however, there are given
several pieces of real estate, the money of the testator in bank
and his building association stock. She is charged with the
payment of the testator's funeral expenses and debts; also
with the care of his cemetery lot. Nevertheless, neither of
the lower courts distinguished between the devisees-to all
was applied the rule of law that a devise of land without words
of limitation or description gives a life estate only The Court
of Appeals held that the charge or burden upon Mary A.
Quigley to pay the funeral expenses and debts of the testator
was offset by the gift to her of personal property It is insisted that the ruling is contrary to the decision m King v.
Ackerman, 2 Black, 408. It is there said. "The rule of law
which gives a fee, where the devisee is charged with a sum of
money, is a technical dominant rule, and intended to defeat
the effect" of the artificial rule established in favor of the heir
at law, that an indefinite devise of land passes nothing but a
life estate. It was, however, apparent to the Court of Appeals that, to follow Kafng v Ackerman, would not execute the
intention of the testator by opposing one technical rule by
another, but would discriminate between his heirs and destroy
the equality between them which it was the purpose of the will
to create. To effect this equality the court selected, not the
"dominant rule," whose virtue this court pointed out, but the
other, regarding it the most commanding. It is altogether a
strange tangle of technicalities. Apply either of them, or both

McCAFFREY v. MANOGUE.
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of them, and we defeat the intention of the testator. Are we
reduced to this dilemma? We think not, nor need we dispute
the full strength of the rule in favor of the heir at law It is
not an unyielding declaration of law It cannot be applied
when the intention of the testator is made plain. It cannot
be applied when the purpose of the testator, as seen in the will,
cannot be carried out by a devise of a less estate than the fee.
Bell County v Alexander, 22 Texas, 350. The policy of the
law in favor of the heir yields, we repeat, to the intention of a
testator if clearly expressed or manifested. That policy, the
reason for it and the elements of it, is expressed strongly by
Mr. Justice Story in Wmght v Denn ex dem. Page, 10 Wheat.
204, 227, 228
"Where there are no words of limitation to a devise, the
general rule of law is, that the devisee takes an estate for life
only, unless, from the language there used, or from other parts
of the will, there is a plain intention to give a larger estate,
we say, a plain intention, because, if it be doubtful or conjectural, upon the terms of the will, or if full legal effect can be
given to the language, without such an estate, the general rule
prevails. It is not sufficient, that the court may entertain a
private belief that the testator intended a fee, it must see that
he has expressed that intention, with reasonable certainty,
on the face of his will. For the law will not suffer the heir to
be disinherited upon conjecture. He is favored by its policy;
and though the testator may disinherit him, yet the law will
execute that intention only when it is put in a clear and unambiguous shape." (Italics ours.)
We think the intention of McCaffrey is "put in a clear and
unambiguous shape:" He intended to dispose of his whole
estate. It is true there is no introductory clause expressmg such intention, but there is no residuary clause indicating that he intended to pass less than all of his estate. And
all of his heirs at law were his devisees. In other words,
the very heirs for whom the rule is invoked are those among
whom he distributed his property, and surely he intended a

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

complete distribution-to vest in each the largest interest he
could give, not assigning life estates with residuary fees to the
very persons to whom such life estates were devised. In other
words, making each heir the successor of the other and of
himself. It was evident to the Court of Appeals-it is evident to us-that he intended to make his heirs equal. Of
this purpose the charge upon his daughter, Mary A. Quigley,
is dominantly significant, not only in effect, but in its expression. She is given a greater quantity of real estate than the
other devisees. She is given personal property besides, but,
declared the testator, "she is to pay funeral expenses and other
legal debts I may owe, also to care for my lot in Mount Olivet
Cemetery" That charge was not intended to enlarge the
quantity of interest in the real estate devised in the sense
contended for, but to make an equality between her and the
other heirs and devisees, and, we repeat, that was his especial
purpose. In other words, he gave her more property, not a
larger interest in it. The devise to his grandson, Frank Foley,
shows how carefully the testator regarded his heirs. Surely,
as he regarded that grandchild as inheriting the rights which
his mother might have inherited, he did not intend a disposition of his property which precluded his other grandchildren
of inheriting through their parents. And this will be the
result if the appellees are right. No devisee possesses an
estate which can be devised to or inherited by his or her
children.
Against the effect of the heirs at law of the testator being
also his devisees, it may be said that it has been held that,
though a testator has given a nominal legacy to his heir or
declared an intention to wholly disinherit him, the inflexibility
of the rule in favor of the heir has been enforced. Frogmorton
v Wright, 2 W Bl. 889, Roe d. Callow v Bolton, 2 W B1.
1045, Right v Sidebotham, 2 Douglas, 730, Roe d. Peter v
Daw, 3 M. & Sel. 518.
In Right v Sidebotham, Lord Mansfield felt himself constrained to enforce the rule, but he observed in protest: "I

McCAFFREY v. MANOGUE.
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

verily believe, that, m almost every case where by law a
general devise of land is reduced to an estate for life, the intent of the testator is thwarted, for ordinary people do not
distinguish between real and personal property The rule of
law, however, is established and certain, that express words
of limitation, or words tantamount, are necessary to pass an
estate of inheritance." And he hence concluded that words
tending to disinherit the heir at law, unless the estate is given to
some one else, were not sufficient to prevent the heir from taking.
Lord Ellenborough m Roe v Daw followed the rule, and declared also that he thereby probably defeated the intention
of the testator. It is a strange conclusion from the facts and
needs the sanction of those great names to rescue it from even
stronger characterization. Lord Mansfield spoke in 1781,
Lord Ellenborough in 1815. We cannot believe, if called upon
to interpret a will made in 1896, when the rights of heirs are
not so insistent and the rule in their favor lingers, where it
lingers at all, almost an anachronism, when ownership of real
property is usually in fee, and when men's thoughts and speech
and dealings are with the fee, they would hold that the purpose
of a testator to disinherit his heirs could be translated into a
remainder in fee after a devise of a life estate to another.
'But, perhaps, even the severe technicality of those cases
need not be questioned. In the construction of wills we are
not required to adhere rigidly to precedents. We said in
Abbott et ux. v Essex Co., 18 How 202, 213
"If wills were always drawn by counsel learned in the law,
it would be highly proper that courts should rigidly adhere to
precedents, because every such instrument might justly be
presumed to have been drawn with reference to them. But
in a country where; from necessity or choice, every man acts
as his own scrivener, his will is subject to be perverted by the
application of rules of construction of which he was wholly
ignorant."
To like effect is Cook et al. v Holmes et ux., 11 Massachusetts,
528, where the will passed on contluned the following devise:

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

"Item. To his grandson Gregory C., only child of his son
Daniel C., deceased, a certain piece of land in Watertown, containing about six acres." The will contained devises to other
sons of pieces of real estate, charging them with payment of
certain legacies. The will concluded as follows: "The abovedescribed legacies, together with what I have heretofore done
for my children and grandchildren, make them nearly equal,
and are their full portions of my estate."
The will, therefore, is similar to the will in the case at bar.
Equality between the devisees is as much the purpose of one
as the other, though it is expressed m one and deduced as an
implication in the other. Chief Justice Parker, m delivering
the opinion of the court, said. "The quality of the estate which
Gregory C. took by the devise must be determined by the words
of the will, taken together, and receiving a liberal construction,
to effectuate the intention of the testator, as manifested m the
will."
Further- "The words of the particular devise to Gregory,
considered by themselves, certainly give no inheritance."
And stating the rule of law to be, as contrasted with the popular
understanding, "that such a devise, standing alone, without
any aid m the construction from other parts of the will, would
amount only to an estate for life m the devisee," added.
"But it is too well established and known to require argument or authority now to support the position, that devises
and legacies m a will may receive a character, by construction
and comparison with other legacies and devises in the same
will, different from the literal and direct effect of the words
made use of in such devise, [Cases were cited in note] and this
because the sole duty of the court, in giving a construction, is
to ascertain the real intent and meaning of the testator; which
can better be gathered by adverting to the whole scope of the
provisions made by him for the objects of his bounty, than by
confining their attention to one isolated paragraph, probably
drawn up without a knowledge of technical words, or without
recollecting the advantage of using them."

UNITED STATES v. MONTANA LUMBER
196 U. S.

LFG. CO. 573

Statement of the Case.

The devise to Gregory C. was held to be of the fee.
From these vwws it follows that the decree of the Court of Appeals must be and it ss reversed, and the case ss remanded to
that court with directwns to reverse the decree of the Supreme
Court, and remand the case to that court with directions to
enter a decree sn accordance with this op'znon.
MR. JUSTICE PECEHAM dissents.

UNITED STATES v. MONTANA LUMBER AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEA&LS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 125. Argued January 13,1905.-Decided February 20, 1905.

While the grant to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company under the act
of July 2, 1864, was zn prmsenii, and took effect upon the sections granted
when the road was definitely located, by relation as to the date of the
grant, the survey of the land and the identification of the sectionswhether odd or even-is reserved to the Government, and the equitable
title of the railroad company and its assigns becomes a legal title only
upon the identification of the granted sections. Until the identification
of the sections by a government survey the United States retains a
special interest in the timber growing m the township sufficient to recover the value of timber cut and removed therefrom.
In a suit brought by the United States for that purpose private surveys
made by the railroad company cannot be introduced as evidence to show
that the land from which the timber was cut were odd sections within
the grant and included m a conveyance from the railroad company to
the defendants.

by the United States against the Montana Lumber
Company and the other defendants for the recovery of $15,000,
for the value of 2,000,000 feet of lumber which had been cut
by the lumber company on unsurveyed lands within the District of Montana, and converted by the defendants to their own
AcTION

