HAMBURG AMERICAN STEAMSHIP CO. v. GRUBE. 407
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

HAMBURG AMERICAN STEAMSHIP COMPANY v.
GRUBE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 411. Submitted January 16, 1905.-Decided February 20, 1905.

The agreement of September 16, 1833, between New York and New Jersey,
confirmed by act of Congress of June 28, 1834, 4 Stat. 708, did not vest
exclusive jurisdiction in the Federal Government over the sea adjoining
those States, neither of which abdicated any rights to the United States.
Although when the charge of the state court is not before this court, and
the record contains no exception to any part of it, the verdict and judgment must be held to have been rendered according to law, nevertheless,
if a provision of the Federal Constitution was properly invoked the motion to dismiss may be denied.
The act of the legislature of New Jersey of March 12, 1846, under which
the jurisdiction of the United States over Sandy Hook is derived ir
merely one of cession and does not purport to transfer jurisdiction over
the littoral waters beyond low water mark.

THis action was brought in the Supreme Court of New York
by Minnie Grube, as administratrix of John Grube, against
the Hamburg American Steamship Company, to recover damages for his death, under the statute of New Jersey in that
behalf, occasioned by the sinking of the James Gordon Bennett,
a vessel owned by a New Jersey corporation, by the steamship
Alene, belonging to the steamship company There was a
conflict of evidence as to the place of the collision, evidence
being given on the one hand that it occurred in waters beyond
the three-mile limit of the coast of the State of New Jersey,
and, on the other, that it occurred within the three-mile limit
along that coast.
The record discloses no instructions to the jury requested
by defendant below, and no exceptions were taken by it to the
charge of the court, which was not included in the bill of exceptions or case made.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

Defendant moved the court to direct a verdict in its favor
upon the following grounds:
"Defendant claims the right, under the statute of the United
States confirming and approving the agreement as to boundaries between the State of New York and the State of New
Jersey, to be free m navigating the main sea to the eastward
of Sandy Hook peninsula, from the operation of any law of
the State of New Jersey giving a right of action for injuries
causing death, and clais that under the statutes aforesaid,
the jurisdiction of that State extends only to the main sea,
that is to say, low water mark along its exterior coast line
and to a line drawn from headland to headland across the
entrance to the bay of New York. It, therefore, asks the
court to direct the jury to return a verdict for the defendant,
on the ground that it appears by uncontradicted evidence
that the collision between the steamship Alene and the schooner
James Gordon Bennett, to recover damages for which this
suit is brought, occurred upon the main sea and to the eastward of the Sandy Hook peninsula, and at a distance of more
than a mile to the eastward of low water mark upon the
exterior line thereof.
"Defendant claims the right, by reason of the purchase by
the United States of the Sandy Hook peninsula, and the
cession to the United States by the State of New Jersey of
jurisdiction over the same and the long continued use of that
peninsula, and of the main sea to the eastward of it for military
purposes, to be free in navigating the main sea to the eastward
of that peninsula from the operation of any law of the State
of New Jersey, giving a right of action for injuries causing
death, and claims that the main sea to the eastward of said
peninsula to a distance of three miles from- the shore is subject
to the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States. It, therefore, asks the court to direct the jury to return a verdict for
the defendant on the ground that it appears by uncontradicted
evidence that the collision between the steamship Alene and the
schooner James Gordon Bennett, to recover damages for which

HAMBURG AMERICAN STEAMSHIP CO. v. GRUBE. 409
196 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

this suit is brought, occurred upon the main sea and to the
eastward of the Sandy Hook peninsula, and at a distance of
more than a mile to the eastward of low water mark, upon the
exterior line thereof."
The court denied the motion and defendant excepted. The
jury found a general verdict for plaintiff below, and assessed
the damages. Judgment was entered thereon, which was
affirmed by the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court, and
a writ of error from the Court of Appeals was denied. This
writ of error was then allowed, and the case submitted on
motions to dismiss or affirm.
Mr Everett P Wheeler for plaintiff in errorThe effect of the statutes and deeds was to vest in the
United States title in fee to Sandy Hook and exclusive jurisdiction over it. All the prerequisite conditions were complied
with. As to the effect of jurisdiction of the United States
over lands ceded by the States see Story, Const. § 1227, In re
Ladd, 74 Fed. Rep. 31, United States v Tucker, 122 Fed. Rep.
518, Commonwealth v Clary, 8 Massachusetts, 72, United
States v King, 34 Fed. Rep. 302. As the States have no longer
legislative power over military tracts, so their inhabitants have
none of the rights of citizens of the States to which they
originally belonged. Sinks v Reese, 19 Ohio St. 306, Opinion
of the Justices, 1 Mete. (Mass.) 580; 6 Op. Atty Gen. 577,
United States v Carter, 84 Fed. Rep. 622.
The jurisdiction over Sandy Hook acquired by the United
States included the littoral waters lying to the eastward.
Such waters within three miles are subject to the jurisdiction
of the sovereign. Wheaton Int. Law, § 177, Dana's note to
same (105), citing Bynkershock, Pomeroy on Int. Law, § 144,
1 Hautefeuille, Droit des Nation Neutres, 53, Ex parte Tatem,
23 Fed. Cas. 708. Jurisdiction over these waters is vital to
the Umted States and a matter of mdifference to New Jersey,
and to realize the object of the cession control of the waters
is essential and when the use of a thing is granted everything

OCTOBER TERMT,

1904.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

196 U. S.

is granted by which the grantee may have and enjoy the same.
Kent's Comm. 467, note g; United States v Appleton, 1 Sumner, 492, Potter v Boyce, 73 App. Div N. Y 383, S. C., 176
N. Y 551, Huttemeter v Albro, 18 N. Y 48, R-chardson v
Bigelow, 15 Gray (Mass.), 154, Voorhees v Burchard,55 N. Y
98, Simmons v Cloonan, 81 N. Y 557, Middleton v La
Compagme, &c., 100 Fed. Rep. 866, distinguished.
The effect of the transfer of jurisdiction over Sandy Hook
and the adjacent waters was to deprive New Jersey of power to
legislate for that region, and the death act of that State,
passed subsequent to the cession, has no operation there.
Before the cession, Sandy Hook was subject to the common
and statute law of the State of New Jersey The cession did
not ipso facto abrogate this body of law, for it is well recognized
that change of sovereignty over territory does not ipso facto
work a general change of the law then existing. Halleck
Int. Law, ch. 34, § 14, Am. Ins. Co. v Canter, 1 Pet. 511, 542;
Commonwealth v Chapman, 13 Metc. (Mass.) 68, Chappell v
Jardine,51 Connecticut, 64, Chs. & Pac. Ry. Co. v McGlinn,
114 U S. 542, Barrett v Palmer, 135 N. Y 336, Madden v
Arnold, 22 App. Div N. Y 240. The act of cession was in 1846.
The statute giving a right of action for death by wrongful act
in 1848. This act is no more operative upon the Sandy Hook
peninsula than legislation of the State of Maryland enacted
after the cession of the District of Columbia is operative in
that District.
Such a cession severs the territory ceded from all further
political relations with the State of which it was formerly a
part. Thenceforth all legislation must be by the new sovereign. In re Ladd, 74 Fed. Rep. 31, Mitchell v Tibbets, 17
Pick. (Mass.) 298, Commonwealth v Clary, 8 Massachusetts,
72, Contzon v United States, 179 U S. 191.
The proviso in the New Jersey act as to retention of jurisdiction in certain cases contains nothing at variance with this
proposition. Ft. Leavenworth R. R. Co. v Lowe, 114 U. S.
525, United States v Cornell, 2 Mason, 60; United States v.

HAMBURG AMERICAN STEAMStIIP CO. v. GRUBE. 411
196 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

Meagher, 37 Fed. Rep. 875, Lasher v Texas, 30 Tex. App.
387, United States v Hammond, 1 Cranch. C. 0. 15. The
New Jersey laws referred to in the proviso then in operation
were laws then in force and not those subsequently passed.
McConihay v Wright, 121 U S. 201, Morris Canal Co. v The
State, 24 N. J Law, 62; Griswold v Dock Co., 21 Barb. (N. Y.)
225.
Under the Act of Congress ratifying the boundary agreement between the States of New York and New Jersey, the
boundary of the latter State extends only to the main sea,that is to low water mark along the coast.
This agreement was adopted by statutes of New York and
New Jersey Ch. 2, Gen. Laws N. Y § 7, 1 Heydecker's ed.
69; 3 Gen. Stats. N J 3464, and was ratified by Congress,
June 28, 1834, 4 Stat. 708. It was invalid until so ratified.
Const. U. S., Art. I, § 10.
The effect of this statute of the United States was to vest
in the United States jurisdiction over the littoral waters to the
south and east of the coast line of New York and New Jersey
The statute and the agreement provide that this line shall run
"to the main sea." These are technical words and it is well
settled that when the phrase "main sea" or its equivalent
"high seas," is used, it means the ocean from low water mark.
General Iron Screw Co. v Schurmans, 1 J & H. 180; The
Saxon=, 1 Lushington, 410; The Franconia,L. R. 2 Exch. Div
63, United States v Kessler, Baldwin, 15, 35, Lennan v Hamburg American S. S. Co., 73 App. Div N. Y 357, distinguished, 1 Blackstone Comm. 110; Bouvier, Title, High Seas;
Coulsford and Forbes on Waters, 11, United States v Ross, 1
Gallison, 624.
The agreement ratified by Congress shows on its face that
it was drawn by emment lawyers, one of whom, Benjamin F
Butler, soon after became Attorney General of the United
States, and had been one of the revisers of the statute law of
the State of New York. Another, Lucius Q C. Elmer, was
the author of the Digest of the Laws of New Jersey Both of

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

196 U. S.

these distinguished men were familiar with legal terms. If it
had been then intention in drawing the agreement between
the States to maintain the old jurisdiction of their respective
States over the littoral waters within the three-mile limit,
they certainly would have said so. The legislatures of the two
States and Congress certainly would have used language apt
for this purpose. See Art. II of treaty with Panama, Stat.
1903-04, 149 of Treaties.
Mr Gilbert D Lamb for defendant in errorThis court has no jurisdiction and will entertain none unless
it affirmatively appears in the record that a Federal question
was, of necessity, passed upon by the court below, and against
the claim of plaintiff in error-actually and properly set up.
Giles v Teasley, 193 U S. 146, Water Co. v Electrc Co., 172
U S. 475, 487, Eustus v Bolles, 150 U S. 361.
Plaintiff in error claims that the cession by the State of
New Jersey to the United States of America of a certain strip
of land at Sandy Hook vested in the United States exclusive
legislative jurisdiction over the littoral waters extending three
miles to the eastward of the coast line thereof, and that
therefore a verdict should have been directed. The plaintiff in error explicitly limited its claim to exclusive Federal
jurisdiction over the adjoining waters to the three-mile limit.
The record, however, discloses evidence that the collision in
question occurred beyond the three-mile limit.
The vessel sunk was owned by a New Jersey corporation
and as such was subject with its occupants to the legislative
jurisdiction and law of New Jersey, while on the high seas
and wherever the situs of the collision, the verdict as rendered,
was right. Int. Nay. Co. v Lndstorm, 123 Fed. Rep. 475,
McDonald v Mallory, 77 N. Y 546, Crapo v Kelly, 16 Wall.
610; Code Civ Pro. (N. Y.) § 522.
The clain of Federal jurisdiction, not being properly set up
in the record, the writ of error should be dismissed. So held
in Hamburg-AmericanS. S. Co. v Lennan, 194 U S. 629, and

HAMBURG AMTERICAN STEAMASHIP CO. v. GRUBE. 413
196 U. S.

Opinon of the Court.

see authorities cited and S. C., 73 App. Div N. Y 357, The
Alene, 116 Fed. Rep. 57
The rights of the United States at Sandy Hook extend only
to low water mark. Middleton v La Compagne &c., 100 Fed.
Rep. 866, Fort Leavenworth R. R. v Lowe, 114 U S.525.
MR. CmEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The assertion by plaintiff in error that Federal questions
were decided by the action of the courts below turns on the
denial of the motion to direct a verdict on the two grounds
above set forth.
As to the first ground, the contention is that the act of
Congress of June 28, 1834, 4 Stat. 708, c. 126, giving consent
to the agreement or compact between the States of New
Jersey and New York in respect of their territorial limits and
jurisdiction, dated September 16, 1833, vested exclusive jurisdiction in the Federal Government over the sea adjoining the
two States. But there is absolutely nothing in the agreement
and confirmatory statutes abdicating rights in favor of the
United States, and the transaction simply amounted to fixing
the boundaries between the two States. Laws New York,
1834, p. 8, c. 8, Laws New Jersey, 1834, p. 118. The first
proposition raised no Federal question.
As to the second ground, the contention is that the cession
by New Jersey to the United States of jurisdiction over a
certain strip of land at Sandy Hook vested in the United States
exclusive legislative jurisdiction over the littoral waters extending three miles to the eastward of the coast line thereof.
Yet there was evidence introduced on behalf of defendant
that the collision took place outside of that limit. And the
trial court was not requested to instruct the jury that if they
found the collision to have occurred within that limit the
verdict should be for the defendant.
The charge of the court is not before us, nor was any excep-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

196 U. S.

tion taken to any part of it, and the verdict and judgment
must be held to have been rendered on the facts according to
law Hamburg-Am. S. S. Co. v Lennan, 194 U S. 629.
This being the situation we hesitate to retain jurisdiction.
Nevertheless, as clause 17 of section 8 of Article I of the Constitution 1 may be regarded as having been properly invoked
by the second proposition, we feel justified in declining to
sustain the motion to dismiss. And retaining jurisdiction, we
think the judgment must be affirmed.
The jurisdiction of the United States over Sandy Hook
is derived from the act of the legislature of New Jersey of
March 12, 1846, set forth below 2 Laws N. J 1846, p. 124.
In 1806 and 1817 deeds of the land included in Sandy Hook
were given the United States, being simple conveyances of
real estate for named money consideration.
The New Jersey act of 1846 was merely one of cession,
to e-xercise exclusive legislaI The Congress shall have power
tion in all cases whatsoever, over such district (not exceeding ten miles
square) as may, by cession of particular States, and the acceptance of
Congress, become the seat of Government of the United States, and to
exercise like authority over all places purchased by the consent of the
legislature of the State in which the same shall be, for the erection of forts,
magazines, arsenals, dock-yards, and other needful buildings.
21. That the jurisdiction mn and over all that portion of Sandy Hook,
in the county of Monmouth, owned by the United States, lying north of an

east and west line through the mouth of Youngs Creek at low water, and
extending across the island or cape of Sandy Hook from shore to shore, and
bounded on all other sides by the sea and Sandy Hook Bay, be, and the
same is hereby, ceded to the said United States, for military purposes; and
the said United States shall retain such jurisdiction so long as the said tract
shall be applied to the military or public purposes of said United States,
and no longer.
2. That the jurisdiction ceded m the first section of this act shall not
prevent the execution on the said tract of land of any process, civil or
criminal, under the authority of this State, except so far forth as such process
may affect any of the real or personal property of the United States of
America within the said tract; nor shall it prevent the operation of the
public laws of this State within the bounds of the said tract, so far as the
same may not be incompatible with the free use and enjoyment of the said
premises by the United States for the purposes above specified.

McDANIEL v. TRAYLOR.
196 U. S.

Syllabus.

and the operation of the general laws of New Jersey was
reserved as therein provided. Fort Leavenworth R. R. Company v Lowe, 114 U S. 525, Chwago, Rock Island & Pacific
Railway Company v McGlinn, 114 U S. 542.
Moreover, as was held by the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit, in Middleton v La Compagnw Gnrale
Transatlantique,100 Fed. Rep. 866, the act did not purport
to transfer jurisdiction over the littoral waters beyond low
water mark, and for the purposes of this case the public laws
of New Jersey must be regarded as obtaining there, whether
enacted prior or subsequent to the cession.
Judgment affirmed.

McDANIEL v. TRAYLOR.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 129. Submitted January 16,190.-Decided February 20, 1905.

Complainants, who were heirs at law of an intestate leaving real estate the
undivided interest of each being valued at over S2,000, and situated within
the jurisdiction of the court, filed their bill in the proper Circuit Court of
the United States against proper parties, citizens of other States, alleging
that defendants had combined to procure and had fraudulently procured
orders of the probate court allowing their claims against one of the heirs
at law as claims against the intestate whereby such claims became liens
upon the intestate's real estate; the claim of each defendant was less
than $2,000 but the aggregate amount exceeded $2,000. So far as the
allegations of the bill were concerned if any one of the claims was good
all were good and the prosecution of one could not be enjoined unless all
were enjoined. The bill prayed that the cloud on title of the intestate's
real estate be removed by declaring the claims invalid and enjoining proceedings under the judgments of the probate court. The defendants were
proceeded against under the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470. The
Circuit Court dismissed the bill for want of jurisdiction. Held error and

that

