OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

taken to the Supreme Court of the United States in the same
manner and under the same regulations as from the Circuit
Courts of the United States."
Final judgments of the Circuit Courts of the United States
in actions at law can only be revised on writs of error. Deland
v Platte County, 155 U S. 221, Met. Railroad Company v.
District of Columbia, 195 U S.322, Bevns v Ramsey, 11 How
185, Sarchet v United States, 12 Pet. 143.
Appeal dismissed.

SCOTT v.CAREW
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 52. Argued November 7, 8, 1904.-Decided January 3,1905.
Unless an intent to the contrary is clearly manifest by its terms, a statute
providing generally for the disposal of public lands is inapplicable to
lands taken possession of and occupied by the Government for a special
purpose.
A prior appropriation is always presumed to except land from the scope
of a subsequent grant although no reference may be made m the latter
to the former.
The establishment of a military post under proper orders on public lands
amounts to an appropriation of the land for military purposes and withdraws the property occupied from the effect of general laws subsequently
passed for the disposal of public lands, and no right of an individual
settler attaches to or hangs over the land to interfere with the action of
the Government in regard thereto.
One who wrongfully settled on public land and was dispossessed by proper
authority so that the land might be used for a military post acquired by
such settlement no priority of right in the matter of purchase or homestead entry when the post was abandoned and the land opened to pnvate purchase.

ON December 31, 1900, the plaintiffs, who are now appellants, filed their bill of complaint in the Circuit Court of the

SCOTT v. CAREW
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

United States for the Southern District of Florida, praying
that the defendants, holding the legal title to a tract of land
under patent from the United States, be decreed to hold that
title in trust for them. A demurrer to the bill was sustained
and a decree of dismissal entered. This was affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, and from that
affirmance this appeal was taken.
The averments in the bill are: The plaintiffs are the sole descendants and heirs at law of Robert J Hackley, who died in
1845. In November, 1823, Hackley, then over twenty-one
years of age, and the head of a family, settled upon and cultivated the tract in controversy At that time the surrounding
country was a dense wilderness and he the only settler. He
erected on the tract a substantial dwelling and other buildings.
In 1824 Colonel Brooke, with a detachment of United States
troops, was sent to this portion of Florida, located a camp or
cantonment on this tract, dispossessed Hackley, and took
possession of the house and land so occupied and cultivated
by him. The Secretary of the Interior, in the contest proceedings hereinafter referred to, m an opinion which is attached to the bill as an exhibit, found that this action was
taken by order of the War Department. United States troops
continued to occupy the camp or cantonment until December 10, 1830, when by an executive order of the President the
Fort Brooke military reservation was established, containing
sixteen square miles of land and embracing the tract in controversy Thereafter this military reservation was reduced
from time to time by executive orders, until on June 1, 1878,
only the tract in controversy, commonly known as the "Reduced Fort Brooke military reservation," remained. On
January 4, 1883, it was relinquished, and transferred by the
Secretary of War to the Interior Department. Hackley, after
his removal from the tract, remained a resident of Florida up
to the time of his death. On March 3, 1823, Congress passed
an act authorizing the President to establish a land office in
each of the districts of East and West Florida as soon as in his

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

opinion there was a sufficient quantity of public land suryeved
to justify it. Under this act and by an executive order in
1828 a land office was established at St. Augustine, in the district in which this land. was situate. At the time this office
was established the hostility of the Indian tribes was such as
to render communication between it and that portion of Florida
where Hackley resided practically impossible. But in the year
1835, although the public surveys had not been extended into
this part of Florida, Hackley filed with the register of the land
office evidence designating the particular tract which had been
settled upon, inhabited and cultivated by him as aforesaid,
and claimed the right of preemption and purchase thereof
under and by virtue of the act of Congress of April 22, 1826.
By change of the boundary lines of the land districts of Florida
the land subsequently came within the jurisdiction of the land
office at Newnansville, Florida, whereupon on November 27,
1843, Hackley secured from the register of the land office at
St. Augustine a copy of the evidence formerly filed in that
office, and filed it with a notice of his claim with the register
of the office at Newnansville. On September 26, 1887, the
administrator of the estate of Hackley filed in the local land
office a supplemental notice of the clain of the legal representatives of Hackley to the right of preemption in the purchase of the tract. Other parties made application to the
Land Department for an entry of said lands, contest proceedmngs were had, which were terminated by a decision of the
Secretary of the Interior adverse to the claim of the plaintiffs,
and a patent was issued to Edmund S. Carew, under whom
the defendants claim.
The following statutes are relied upon by the parties: Act
of Congress, March 3, 1807, 2 Stat. 445, section 1 of which
provides:
"That if any person or persons shall, after the passing of this
act, take possession of, or make a settlement on any lands
ceded or secured to the United States, by any treaty made
with a foreign nation, or by a cession from any State to the

SCOTT 7, CAREW
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

United States, which lands shall not have been previously
sold, ceded, or leased by the United States, or the claim to
which lands, by such person or persons, shall not have been
previously recognized and confirmed by the United States;
or if any person or persons shall cause such lands to be thus
occupied, taken possession of, or settled, or shall survey, or
attempt to survey, or cause to be surveyed, any such lands;
or designate any boundaries thereon, by marking trees, or
otherwise, until thereto duly authorized by law; such offender
or offenders, shall forfeit all his or their right, title, and claim,
if any he hath, or they have, of whatsoever nature or kind the
same shall or may be, to the lands aforesaid, which he or they
shall have taken possession of, or settled, or cause to be occupied, taken possession of, or settled, or which he or they
shall have surveyed, or attempt to survey, or cause to be surveyed, or the boundaries thereof he or they shall have designated, or cause to be designated, by marking trees or otherwise. And it shall moreover be lawful for the President of the
United States, to direct the marshal, or officer acting as marshal, in the manner hereinafter directed, and also to take such
other measures, and to employ such military force as he may
judge necessary and proper, to remove from lands ceded, or
secured to the United States, by treaty, or cession as aforesaid, any person or persons who shall hereafter take possession
of the same, or make, or attempt to make a settlement thereon,
until thereunto authorized by law And every right, title, or
claim, forfeited under this act, shall be taken and deemed to
be vested in the United States, without any other or further
proceedings."
The other sections have no application to this case.
On February 5, 1813, 2 Stat. 797, the following act was
passed.
"That every person, or legal representative of every person,
who has actually inhabited and cultivated a tract of land lying
in either of the districts established for the sale of public lands,
in the Illinois Territory, which tract is not rightfully claimed

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

by any other person, and who shall not have removed from
said Territory; every such person and his legal representatives
shall be entitled to a preference in becoming the purchaser
from the United States of such tract of land at private sale,
at the same price and on the same terms and conditions in
every respect, as are or may be provided by law for the sale
of other lands sold at private sale in said Territory, at the time
of making such purchase: Prowded, that no more than onequarter section of land shall be sold to any one individual, in
virtue of this act; and the same shall be bounded by the sectional and divisional lines run, or to be run, under the direction
of the surveyor general for the division of the public lands:
Provmded also, that no lands reserved from sale by former acts,
or lands which have been directed to be sold in town lots, and
out lots, shall be sold under this act.
"SEc. 2. And be it further enacted, That every person claimmg a preference in becoming the purchaser of a tract of land,
in virtue of this act, shall make known his claim, by delivering
a notice in writing to the register of the land office, for the
district in which the land may lie, wherein he shall particularly
designate the quarter section he claims; which notice the
register shall file in his office, on receiving twenty-five cents
from the person delivering the same. And in every case where
it shall appear to the satisfaction of the register and receiver
of public monies of the land office, that any person, who has
delivered his notice of claim, is entitled, according to the
provisions of this act, to a preference in becoming the purchaser of a quarter section of land, such person so entitled shall
have a right to enter the same, with the register of the land
office, on producing his receipt from the receiver of public
monies for at least one-twentieth part of the purchase money,
as in case of other public lands sold at private sale: Promded,
that all lands to be sold under this act shall be entered with the
register, at least two weeks before the time of the commencement of the public sales, in the district wherein the land lies:
and every person having a right of preference in becoming the

SCOTT v. CAREW
196 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

purchaser of a tract of land, who shall fail so to make his entry
with the register, within the time prescribed, his right shall be
forfeited, and the land by him claimed shall be offered at public
sale, with the other public lands in the district to which it
belongs."
And on April 22, 1826, 4 Stat. 154, Congress passed another
act, the first section of which reads as follows:
"That every person, or the legal representatives of any
person, who, being either the head of a family, or twenty-one
years of age, did, on or before the first day of January, in the
year one thousand eight hundred and twenty-five, actually
inhabit and cultivate a tract of land situated in the Territory
of Florida, which tract is not rightfully claimed by any other
person, and who shall not have removed from the said Terntory, shall be entitled to the right of preemption in the purchase thereof, under the same terms, restrictions, conditions,
provisions and regulations, in every respect, as are directed by
the act, entitled 'An act giving the right of preemption, in the
purchase of lands, to certain settlers in the Illinois Territory,'
passed February the fifth, one thousand eight hundred and
thirteen. Provided, That no person shall be entitled to the
provisions of this section, who clais any tract of land in said
Territory, by virtue of a confirmation of the commissioners,
or by virtue of any act of Congress."
Mr Henry W Anderson and Mr Francis P Fleming, with
whom Mr William H. Lamar, Mr George H. Lamar, Mr
Francis P Fleming, Jr., Mr Beverley B. Mumford, Mr Eppa
Hunton, Jr., and Mr E. Randolph Williams were on the brief,
for appellants:
Hackley or his legal representatives acquired a right to, or
interest in, the land in controversy, by virtue of his settlement
thereon and cultivation thereof in 1823, 1824, and their subsequent acts.
In the construction and interpretation of statutes the courts
must so construe the law as to effect the object designated by

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Appellants.

196 U. S.

the Legislature, and to this end its provisions must be examined
in the light of surrounding circumstances at the time of their
enactment and of preceding history Sieman's Adm'r v Sellers, 123 U S. 276, 285, In re Ross, 140 U S. 453, 475, Ross v
Borland, 1 Peters, 654, Edwardsv Darby, 12 Wheat. 210; Gibbons v Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1.
The statutes involved were passed more than seventy-five
years ago, when the conditions and circumstances were entirely different from those now existing, or such as have existed
for many years past. It is essential, therefore, to review the
history and development of the public land system and the
legislation bearing thereon. Smith v Townsend, 148 U. S.
490; and see Chap. VIII, The History of the Public Domain,
Donaldson, 1881.
From the earliest times the relief and protection of the first
settlers has been a controlling consideration with every department of the Government, that first the protection and
afterwards the encouragement of bona fide settlements for the
purpose of making a home has been regarded as a most important consideration in the disposition of the public landsa consideration which finally led to the practical abandonment
of the system of sales and the enactment of the preemption
and homestead laws.
Hackley comes within the terms of the act of April 22, 1826.
The act is plain in its terms and the court must give it effect.
Sutherland, ยง234, United States v Hartwell, 6 Wall. 395,
United States v Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 95. Congress has always
protected the early settlers. Lamb v Davenport, 18 Wall. 307,
Lytle v Arkansas, 9 How 334, Wynn v Morrs, 16 Arkansas,
414.
The act amounted to a grant mn presenti to the settler within
its terms which could be defeated by the failure to perform
conditions subsequent. United States v Fitzgerald, 15 Pet.
418, Barnard v Ashley, 18 How 43, Brown v Clements, 3
How 666, Hall v Piptn, 24 How 132, Bryan v Forsythe, 19
How 334, Morrow v Whitney, 95 U S. 551, Caronditch v St.

SCOTT v. CAREW
196 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

Lous, 1 Black, 179; Glasgow v Hortiz, 1 Black, 595, Saw gnac
v Garrison,18 How 132.
The act of March 3, 1807, does not affect complainants'
rights. It did not under the contemporaneous construction of
the various preemption acts by the executive departments of
the Government to which the court will give controlling weight.
United States v Philbrwk, 120 U. S. 52, 59, Hahn v United
States, 107 U S. 405, Brown v United States, 113 U S. 571,
United States v Darby, 12 Wheat. 206, United States v Moore,
95 U S. 760; 2 Pub. Land Law Inst. & Orders, 272, 422, Cong.
Deb. for 1825, 1826, pp. 1422-1436.
The act of 1826 did not require that Hackley should be in
possession when the act was passed or January 1, 1826, but
only that he should have-as he had-cultivated it prior to
January 1, 1825. The courts will not read a condition into
an act which it does not contain. Newhall v Sanger, 92 U S.
765, Glasgow v Hortsz, 1 Black, 595, Ryan v Carter, 93
U S. 78, United States v Dixon, 15 Pet. 141, Minds v
United States, 15 Pet. 423, United States v Arredondo, 5 Pet.
691. Nor make exceptions which the Legislature did not insert in the act. French v Spencer, 21 How 228, Yturbzde v
United States, 22 How 290; Ross v Duval, 13 Pet. 45.
The act of 1826 was wholly retroactive and covered settlements on unsurveyed lands. Moore v Robblns, 96 U S. 530
536, distinguishing Atherton v Fowler, 96 U S. 513.
Hackley's ejectment from his settlement by military forces
of the United States, and the establishment of a camp thereon,
prior to the passage of the act of 1826, did not prevent him from
acquiring a right of preemption in the purchase of the lands.
The temporary occupation of this tract of land by the troops
of the United States in 1826, did not constitute a claim to the
land at all, and even if it had been claimed, it would not have
been within the terms of the act, since it was not a claim by
"any other person."
The legal effect of such occupation, if any, is purely a question of law, as to which the courts are in no way bound by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

finding of the Interior Department. Lee v Johnson, 116 U S.
48, Johnson v Towsley, 13 Wall. 72, Johnson v United States,
2 C. Cl. 391.
There was no order by competent authority nor was the
reservation made with such solemnity and publicity as will
forever set apart the lands so reserved, so that they cannot be
disposed of other than by act of Congress. Wolsey v Chapman, 101 U S. 755, United States v Tichnor, 12 Fed. Rep. 421.
The presumption which holds in the case of the Secretary
of War, that he is acting as the mouthpiece of the President,
does not apply in the case of orders issued by subordinate
officers. Wilcox v Jackson, 13 Wall. 498, United States v
Stone, 2 Wall. 537, Missours &c. Ry. Co. v Roberts, 152 U S.
119, Wilcox v McConnell, 13 Pet. 498, 19 Am. & Eng. Ency.
of Law, 1st ed., 441, United States v Fitzgerald, 15 Pet. 407
For distinction between mere "occupation" and reservation
of public-lands, see Morrow v Whitney, 95 U S. 551.
The occupation by the troops could have had no other effect
than possibly to delay Hackley's right and did not render the
act of 1826 inapplicable to these lands. On the termination
of the occupation he was entitled to perfect his interests.
Ham v Missours, 18 How 126, Beecher v Wetherby, 95 U. S.
517, State of Michigan,8 L. D 308, State of Lousiana,17 L. D
440; State of Wisconsin, 19 L. D 518, United States v Thomas,
151 U S. 577, Stockbridge and Menesee Indians v Wisconsin,
25 L. D 17, State of Florida,25 L. D 117
The right to perfect the title passed to Hackley's heirs.
Buxton v Traver, 130 U S. 232, distinguished.
Mr Edward R. Gunby, Mr Wm. Wade Hampton and Mr
Horatw Bisbee for appellees.
MR. Justice BREWER, after making the foregoing state-

ment of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
The vital question in this case is whether Hackley could
claim the benefit of the act of 1826, in reference to the tract in

SCOTT v. CAREW
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

controversy
Prior to that act he was wrongfully in possession
of the tract, and could have been summarily removed by order
of the President. (Act of March 3, 1807 ) His dispossession
was by authority of law It was done in the exercise of the
power vested in the President as Commander-n-Chief of the
Army, the order of the War Department being presumed to
be that of the President. The occupation of the tract by the
United States troops was rightful, being an occupation of
property of the Government by direction of the proper officer,
and that rightful occupation continued until the act was passed.
It is unnecessary to rest the case upon the clause in the act of
1826, "which tract is not rightfully claimed by any other person," although that is not without significance, or to discuss
the question whether the United States can be considered
another person. A more substantial reason is to be found in
the rule that whenever a statute is passed containing a general
provision for the disposal of public lands, it is, unless an intent
to the contrary is clearly manifest by its terms, to be held
inapplicable to lands which for some special public purpose
have been in accordance with law taken full possession of by
and are in the actual occupation of the Government. Where
particular tracts have been taken possession of by rightful
orders of an executive department, to be used for some public
purpose, Congress in legislating will be presumed to have intended no interference with such possession nor a sale or disposal of the property to private individuals. Such has been
the rule obtaining in the Land Department, as well as in the
courts. An early case was Wilcox v Jackson, 13 Pet. 498.
That case rested upon a claim of right of preemption under
the act of June 19, 1834, 4 Stat. 678, which revived an act
passed May 29, 1830, 4 Stat. 420, containing these provisions:
"That no entry or sale of any land shall be made, under the
provisions of this act, which shall have been reserved for the
use of the United States, or either of the several States in which
any of the public lands may be situated," or "which is -reserved
from sale by act of Congress, or by order of the President, or

OCTOBER TERM,

1904.

Opimon of the Court.

196 U. S.

which may have been appropriated, for any purpose whatsoever."
It appeared that at the request of the Secretary of War the
Commissioner of the General Land Office had marked upon
the official map of that department the tract in controversy
as reserved for military purposes, and directed it to be withheld from sale. The court held that this action was that of
the President, saying (p. 513)
"Now, although the immediate agent, in requiring this
reservation, was the Secretary of War, yet we feel justified in
presuming, that it was done by the approbation and direction
of the President. The President speaks and acts through the
heads of the several departments m relation to subjects which
appertain to their respective duties. Both military posts and
Indian Affairs, including agencies, belong to the War Department. Hence, we consider the act of the War Department,
in requiring this reservation to be made, as being in legal contemplation the act of the President, and, consequently, that
the reservation thus made was, in legal effect, a reservation
made by order of the President, within the terms of the act
of Congress."
And going beyond the special language of the act in respect
to the sale of lands, the court observed.
"But we go further, and say, that whensoever a tract of land
shall have been once legally appropriated to any purpose, from
that moment, the land thus appropriated becomes severed
from the mass of public lands, and that no subsequent law,
or proclamation, or sale, would be construed to embrace it, or
to operate upon it, although no reservation were made of it.
"The very act which we are now considering will furnish
an illustration of this proposition. Thus, in that act, there is
expressly reserved from sale the land, within that district,
which had been granted to individuals, and the State of Illinois.
Now, suppose this reservation had not been made, either in
the law, proclamation or sale, could it be conceived that, if
that land were sold at auction, the title of the purchaser would

SCOTT v. CAREW
196 U. S.

Opimion of the Court.

avail against the individuals or State to whom the previous
grants had been made? If, as we suppose, this question must
be answered in the negative, the same principle will apply to
any land which, by authority of law, shall have been severed
from the general mass."
In Leavenworth &c. R. R. Company v United States, 92
U. S. 733, 745, the doctrine announced in Wilcox v Jackson,
supra, was reaffirmed, the court, quoting the first paragraph
in the last quotation, added "it may be urged that it was not
necessary in deciding that case to pass upon the question,
but, however this may be, the principle asserted is sound and
reasonable, and we accept it as a rule of construction." In
that case it was held that a grant of public land in aid of a
railroad did not apply to lands included within an Indian
reservation, and that it was immaterial that the reservation
was afterwards set aside and the lands had become a part of
the public lands of the nation. Newhall v Sanger, 92 U S.
761, ruled that lands within the boundaries of an alleged
Mexican or Spanish grant which was sub yudice at the time the
Secretary of the Interior ordered a withdrawal of lands along
the route of the road, were not embraced by a grant to a railroad company, and it was said in the opinion (p. 763) "the
words 'public lands' are habitually used in our legislation to
describe such as are subject to sale or other disposal under
general laws."
In ShIvely v Bowlby, 152 U S. 1, it was held that while
Congress has power to grant lands below high-water mark in
navigable waters, yet the fact that the public surveys are made
to terminate on the banks or shores of those waters, indicates
that such lands are not subject to entry and sale under the
general land laws, but so far as they are situated in a Territory
are reserved for th'e use and control of the future State. This
doctrine was reaffirmed in Mann v Tacoma Land Company,
153 U S.273. Many authorities might be cited to the proposition that a prior appropriation is always understood to except
lands from the scope of a subsequent grant, although no refer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

ence is made m the latter to the former. See Lake Superior
&c. Company v Cunningham, 155 U S. 354, 373.
There is nothing in United States v Fitzgerald, 15 Pet. 407,
to conflict with the foregoing views. It merely decided that an
officer of the United States (in that case an inspector of customs) was not deprived by any act of Congress of the benefit
of the preemption laws, and the fact that he was put in possession of a tract of land by the collector of customs, who had
received no instructions to that effect from the Treasury
Department, was not an appropriation to the uses of the Government. It is true a letter from the Acting Commissioner of
the General Land Office to the register at New Orleans, statmg that the Secretary of the Treasury had directed that the
tract be reserved from sale for the use of the custom house at
New Orleans, and requesting the register to note upon his plats
that it was so reserved from sale, was m evidence, but this was
written two years after the inspector had entered and paid
for the land. Of course, such attempted reservation could
have no effect upon a title acquired by the entryman prior
thereto. Nor is there any conflict in United States v Tichenor,
12 Fed. Rep. 415. There it appeared that the commanding
officer of United States troops m Oregon ordered that a military reservation be established on the tract in controversy
In obedience thereto a lieutenant erected some buildings
thereon for the use of the soldiers. It was held by the Circuit Court that such action constituted no appropriation of
the land so as to exempt it from the operation of the general
land laws. But the ground of the decision was that the general commanding was acting without any direction from the
President or the War Department, the court saying (p. 423)
"It may be admitted, as suggested in Wilcox v Jackson,
13 Pet. 513, that if the order directing the reservation to be
made had been issued by the Secretary of War,-the head
of the department through whom the President would speak
and act upon the subject,-in the absence of evidence to the
contrary, it would be presumed that he acted by the direction

SCOTT v. CAREW
196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

of the President. But neither General Hitchcock nor Lieutenant Wyman had any authority to designate or establish a
reservation at Port Orford for any purpose. It is not alleged
that they were acting in the premises under the authority
of the President, and there is no presumption of law that they
were."
Again, it is urged that the establishment of this camp or
cantonment was a mere temporary matter, and not to be considered as in the nature of a reservation or appropriation, and
we are referred to orders and other papers found in the records
of the War Department, copies of which appear in the brief
of appellants' counsel. Those orders, if we are permitted to
consider them on this demurrer, make distinctly against the
contentions of counsel. We quote from that issued from the
Adjutant General's office:
"Order 70.
"Brevet Col. Brooke, with four companies of the Fourth
Infantry, will proceed with as little delay as practicable to
Tampa Bay, East Florida, where he will establish a military
post. He will -select a position with a view to the health
and in reference to the Florida Indians about to be removed
to that vicinity agreeable to the late treaty Upon this point
he will consult Col. Gadsden, the commissioner employed in
locating the Indians.
"The permanent headquarters of the Fourth Infantry will
remain at Cantonment Clinch, and, should Col. Clinch have
rejoined his regiment, on the receipt of this order he will be
charged with the duty of preparing Col. Brooke's command
for the expedition to Tampa.
"By order of Major Gen. Brown.
"E. KIRBY, Atd-de-Camp."
It will be seen that the direction is to "establish a military
post." It was for this "post" that the tract in controversy
was taken, and the statement in the report of Colonel Brooke,
as one of the reasons for its selection, that some two miles in
VOL. Oxcvi-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

196 U. S.

the rear of the place a ridge of piney lands commences, to
which the troops could retire with their tents on the slightest
manifestation of disease, does not alter the fact that this tract
was selected for the "post." The further fact that permanent
headquarters of the Fourth Infantry were to remain at Cantonment Clinch, is entirely consistent with the direction to
Colonel Brooke to proceed with four companies to Tampa
Bay and there establish this military post. The judgment
of the War Department, whose action is presumed to be the
action of the President, was that, having reference to the
Florida Indians who were about to be removed to that vicinity,
it was important to have a military post established. Its
permanence would depend largely on the developments of
the future. It remained a military post for half a century, and
a very large tract was in 1830 set apart for a surrounding reservation. True, it has since been all abandoned, but although
it may have been within the contemplation of the authorities
that a time would come when the necessity for this military
post would cease, it was none the less for the time being a
post established by the proper department of the Government. It was until the post was abandoned an appropriation
of the land for military purposes. Quite a number of reservations and posts in our Western territory once established have
afterwards been abandoned, but while so appropriated they
are excepted from the operation of the public land laws, and
no right of an individual settler attaches to or hangs over the
land to interfere with such action as the Government may
thereafter see fit to take in respect to it. No cloud can be
cast upon the title of the Government-nothing done by an
individual to embarrass it in the future disposition of the
land.
Without considering, therefore, the question of laches or
limitation we are of opinion that the decision of the Court of
Appeals was correct, and it is
Affirmed.

