BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
196 U. S

Syllabus.

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 343. Argued November 30, December 1, 1904.%-Decided January 16, 19.

A Senator of the United States was indicted and tried m the Eastern Distrct of Missouri for a violation of § 1782, Rev. Stat., the indictment
averring that he had rendered services for a certain corporation before
the Post Office Department in matters in which the United States was
interested, that is, whether a "fraud order" should issue agamst such
corporation, and that he had received payment at St. Louis therefor.
The defendant denied that the United States was interested in the matters
referred to in the indictment within the meaning of § 1782, Rev. Stat.,
or that he had rendered any service m violation thereof, and alleged that
the services which he had rendered to, and had been paid for by, the
corporation, were those of general counsel, and not connected with the
"fraud order." It was proved without contradiction that the compensation he received under certain counts was sent to him from St. Louis and
received by him m Washington m the form of checks on a St. Louis bank
which be deposited in his bank in Washington, receiving credit therefor
at once, and which checks were subsequently paid in due course. On the
trial the jurisdiction of the court was denied, the offense, if any there
was, having been committed at Washington and not at St. Louis, and
the defendant also asserted his privilege from arrest under § 6, Art. I
of the Constitution. The court held that the privilege from arrest was
waived and submitted to the jury whether there was any agreement by
which the place of payment of the checks was St. Louis and not Washington: Held that,
The facts alleged in the indictment showed a case that is covered by the
provisions of § 1782, Rev. Stat.
Whether a Senator of the United States has waived his privilege from
arrest and whether such privilege is personal only or given for the purpose of always securing a representation of his State in the Senate are not
frivolous questions; and, if properly raised in the court below and denied,
this court has jurisdiction to issue the writ of error directly to the District Court, and then to decide the case without being restricted to the
constitutional question.
It is not the habit of this court to decide questions of a constitutional
nature unless absolutely necessary to a decision of the case.
The deposit of checks in a bank and drawing against them by a customer
constitutes the relation of debtor and creditor and the bank becomes the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

absolute owner of the checks so deposited, and not the agent of the customer to collect them; this relation is not, in the absence of any special
agreement, affected by the right of the bank against the customer, and
his liability therefor, in case the checks are not paid.
The payment of the checks to defendant in this manner was a payment
at Washington, and if any crime was committed it was not at St. Louis,
and, m view of the evidence, it was error to submit to the jury any question as to where the payment was made, and those counts in the indictment which were based on allegations of payments in St. Louis should
have been dismissed as the court had no jurisdiction thereover.
This is not the case of the commencement of a crime in one district and
its completion in another so that the court m either district would have
jurisdiction under § 731, Rev. Stat.
Certain of defendant's requests to charge which were allowed were referred
to as mere abstract propositions of law and not otherwise specifically
charged; after having been out thirty-eight hours the jurors returned and
were instructed by the court in relation to their duty as jurors, and the
foreman having stated in answer to questions of the court that they stood
eleven to one, the court charged that it was their duty to agree if possible. Counsel then asked the court to instruct that defendant's requests
to charge which had been allowed were as much a part of the charge as
that which emanated from the court. This was refused. Held:
Error, and, under the circumstances of this case, it was a matter of right,
and not of discretion, that the jury should be charged as to the character of the requests.
When a jury is brought before the court because unable to agree, it is not
material for the court in order to instruct it as to its duty and the propriety of agreeing to understand the proportion of division of opinion,
and the proper administration of the law does not require or permit
such a question on the part of the presiding judge.
THE plaintiff in error having been convicted in the District
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Missouri
of a violation of the Revised Statutes of the United States,
sec. 1782, (1 U S. Comp. Stat., p. 1212), and set forth in the
margin,' has brought the case here directly from that court
by writ of error.
1 1 U. S. Comp. Stat. 1212.
S.c. 1782. No Senator, Representative, or Delegate, after his election and
during his continuance in office, and no head of a Department, or other
officer or clerk in the employ of the Government, shall receive or agree to
receive any compensation whatever, directly or indirectly, for any services
rendered, or to be rendered, to any person, either by himself or another, in
relation to any proceeding, contract, claim, controversy, charge, accusation,

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
196 U. S-

Statement of the Case.

The defendant was a member of the Senate of the United
States, representing the State of Kansas. The indictment
under which he was tried contained nine counts. The first
count, after averring that the defendant was a Senator from
the State of Kansas, averred that on the twenty-sixth day of
March, 1903, he received at St. Louis, Missouri, from the Rialto
Grain' and Securities Company $500 mnmoney, as compensation
for his services theretofore on November 22, 1902, and on divers
other days between that day and the twenty-sixth day of
March, 1903, rendered for the company before the Post Office
Department of the United States, in a certain matter then and
there pending before that Department, in which the United
States was directly interested, that is to say" Whether the company had violated the provisions of section 5480 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, m that the company had
through its officers devised a scheme and artifice to defraud,
which was to be effected through correspondence by means of
the post office establishment of the United States, and whether
the correspondence of the company at St. Louis, Mo., should
not be returned with the word "Fraudulent" plainly written
or stamped upon the outside, as authorized by law It also
averred that the services rendered by defendant to the company consisted in part of visits to the Postmaster General, the
chief inspector, and other officers of the Post Office Department, and of statements made to the Postmaster General, the
chief inspector, and other officers, which visits and statements
made by the defendant were made with a view and for the
purpose of inducing the Postmaster General, the chief inspector,
and other officers to decide the question then pending before
arrest, or other matter or thing m which the United States is a party, or
directly or indirectly interested, before any Department, court-martial,
Bureau, office, or any civil, military, or naval commission whatever. Every
person offending against this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be imprisoned not more than two years, and fined not
more than ten thousand dollars, and shall, moreover, by conviction therefor, be rendered forever thereafter incapable of holding any office of honor,
trust, or profit under the Government of the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

the Post Office Department in a way favorable to the Rialto
Company The second count of the indictment was the same
as the first, except that it averred the United States was "indirectly," instead of "directly," interested in the question as
to whether or not a "fraud" order should be issued. Upon
the third count the jury rendered a verdict of not guilty
Upon the fourth and fifth counts the Government entered a
nolle prosequl.. The third, fourth and fifth counts concededly
charged but one offense, which was the same as that charged
in the first and second counts, and all of these counts were based
upon the payment of $500 in cash to defendant at St. Louis on
the twenty-sixth of March, 1903. The sixth count averred the
receipt by defendant at the city of St. Louis, in the State of
Missouri, of a check for the payment of $500, which was received by the defendant on the twenty-second of November,
1902, the check being drawn upon the Commonwealth Trust
Company of St. Louis, payable to the order of the defendant
and by him duly mdorsed, and such check was paid by the
trust company to defendant at St. Louis, as compensation for
his services to the company between November 22, 1902, and
March 26, 1903, before the Post Office Department, in a matter
in which the United States was directly interested. The count
then contained the same averments of the character of the
question pending before the Post Office Department as are set
forth in the first count. The seventh count is the same as the
sixth, except that it averred the making of a check and the
payment thereof to the defendant on December 1-5, 1902, at
the city of St. Louis, in the State of Missouri, for the sum of
$500; all other averments being the same as the sixth count.
The eighth count averred the giving of a check for the sum of
$500 on January 22, 1903, at the city of St. Louis, in the State
of Missouri, in payment of services of the same nature as stated
in the sixth and seventh counts. The ninth count is the same
as the sixth, seventh and eighth, except that it averred the
receipt of a check by the defendant, dated Ferbuary 16, 1903,
at the city of St. Louis, in the State of Missouri, for the same

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
196 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

class of services and upon the same matter then pending before
the Post Office Department. The defendant demurred to the
indictment on the ground that it stated no crime, and that it
showed that the United States had no interest, direct or indirect, in the matter before the Post Office Department, inasmuch as the interest of the United States, under the statute,
must be either a pecuniary or property interest, which may be
favorably or unfavorably affected by action sought or taken
in the given matter pending before the Department. The demurrer was overruled, and the defendant then pleaded not
guilty
Mr John F Dillon and Mr Frederick W Lehmann, with
whom Mr HarryHubbard, Mr John M. Dillon and Mr W H.
Rossngton were on the brief, for plaintiff in errorThe United States was not "directly or indirectly interested"
in the question whether a fraud order should issue against the
Rialto Gram and Securities Company; and, therefore, the court
should have sustained the demurrer to the indictment, or should
have granted the motion in arrest of judgment, or should have
directed a verdict for defendant, and should not have instructed
that the United States was "interested" as alleged in the indictment. For legislative history of Rev Stat. § 1782, see
Cong. Globe, Part I, 1st Sess., Debates on Sen. Bill 28, 38th
Cong., 1863, 1864, pages 93, 460, 555, 559, 561, 714, 2773, and
act as passed Ch. 119, Appx. Cong. Globe, 177
Section 1782 does not say or mean things in which the people
of the United States are interested, but things in which the
United States, meaning the United States, as a Government,
is interested.
The kind of interest of the United States which is meant in
§ 1782 is shown by the things which the statute specifically
mentions, and the "other matters or things" referred to are
matters or things in which the United States has a similar
interest, under the principle of ejusdean generm and noscitur a
sociis. Lord Tenterden's Rule, 21 Am. & Eng. Ency of Law,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

196 U. S.

1012, Alabama v Montague, 117 U S. 602, 610. Such interesf must be visible, demonstratable and capable of proof.
Northampton v Smith, 11 Metcalf, 390, 395, McGrathv People,
100 Illinois, 464, Evans v Eaton, 7 Wheat. 356, State v Sutton,
74 Vermont, 12, Foreman v Mamanna, 43 Arkansas, 324,
Taylor v Commisswners, 88 Illinois, 526, C., B. & Q. R. R.
Co. v Kellogg, 54 Nebraska, 138, Sauls v Freeman,24 Florida,
209; Bowman's Case, 67 Missouri, 146.
Section 1782 is a criminal statute and is to be interpreted
as such. The court should not seek to include therein anything not included unquestionably in the statute. United
States v Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 76, United States v Sheldon, 2
Wheat. 119, United States v Moms, 14 Peters, 464, United
States v Clayton, 2 Dillon, 218.
There was no evidence establishing defendant's guilt as to
any of the offenses charged in the indictment or of any offense
whatever, and the court erred in refusing to direct a verdict of
not guilty as to each count.
There was no testimony that the Senator had done anything violative of the statute in his Department or in the inconsequential supplemental talk. The testimony shows affirmatively that the charge that he tried to prevent the fraud
order is not true. The letters and telegrams show that they
had no reference to any fraud order.
The employment and actual services rendered by Senator
Burton as general counsel had no relation to any matter charged
in the indictment, and were not prohibited by § 1782, and were
paid for by his monthly salary as general counsel.
The payments made by the four checks to Senator Burton
were made in Washington and not in St. Louis, and the court
in St. Louis had, under the Constitution, no jurisdiction of the
alleged offenses based on the checks, as set forth in the sixth,
seventh, eighth and ninth counts.
The four checks, when they were paid in St. Louis, belonged
neither to Burton nor to the Riggs National Bank of Washington, but in the instance of each check to a subsequent in-

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
196 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

dorsee, which was the owner of the check, and payment to such
subsequent mdorsee was not payment either to Burton or to
the Riggs Bank. Neither the Riggs Bank nor any other bank
was agent of Burton. Cravgze v Hadley, 99 N. Y 131, Metropolitan Nattonal Bank v Loyd, 90 N. Y 530; Bank o1 Republic
v Millard, 10 Wall. 152; Thompson v Riggs, 5 Wall. 663,
Marine Bank v Fulton -Bank, 2 Wall. 252, Phxn
Bank
v R lsey, 111 U S. 125, Scammon v Kimball, 93 U S.
362. St. Louis &c. Ry. Co. v Johnston, 133 U S. 566, distinguished.
The title to the check passed under commercial usage absolutely to the Riggs Bank and absolutely to each mdorsee.
The resolution of the New York Clearing House, June 4, 1896,
had for its object to prevent indorsements "for collection"
and to transfer absolute ownership. Evansville Bank v German American Bank, 155 U. S. 556, Commercial Bank v Armstrong, 148 U S. 50.
If the Riggs National Bank of Washington was the agent of
Burton to collect the checks, then the subsequent indorsees of
said checks, if they were agents at all, were the agents of the
Riggs National Bank and not of Burton. Hoover v Wise, 91
U. S. 308, 313, Exchange Bank v Third Nat. Bank, 112 U S.
276, citing Van Wart v Woolley, 3 B. & C. 439; Tradesman's
Bank v Third Natwnal Bank, 112 U S. 293.
The court should have directed an acquittal as there was no
proof of venue. Stone v State, 105 Alabama, 60; Randolph v.
State, 100 Alabama, 139; Justice v State, 99 Alabama, 180;
Childs v State, 55 Alabama, 28, Clark v State, 46 Alabama, 307
An indictment can be found only in that county in which the
crime has been committed. Stephen, Dig. Law Crin. Proc. 47,
Rex v Jones, 6 C. & P 137, 4 Black. Com. 303, 1 Chitty Crim.
Law, 189; 2 Hale P C. 163, 2 Hawk. P C., Ch. 25, §§ 24,
35, 51, Const. U. S., Art. III, § 2, el. 3, and 6th Amendment;
Story on Const. § 1775, 2 Tucker, Const. 678, Callan v Wilson, 127 U. S. 540; 12 Cyc. Law & Pro. 229, 239; Rev Stat.
§731.
VOL. oxovi-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

196 U. S.

There can be no implied or constructive presence under the
Constitution. United States v Burr, 4 Cranch. Appx. 470.
The common law principle as to the local jurisdiction m
respect of criminal offenses was adopted by the Constitution
of the United States, substituting "State" and "State and
district" for county
The court erred in trying the defendant, a Senator of the
United States, when the Senate was in session, and also in
pronouncing judgment and sentence of fine and imprisonment
against him, to be executed at a time when the Senate was in
session. Const. U S., Art. I, § 6, Story, Const. §§ 856-862,
and authorities there cited.
This immunity from arrest is not personal, but belongs to
the office of Senator for the benefit of the Government, the
State of Kansas and of his constituents, and the defendant
could not waive it, even if he had consented or attempted to do
so. The record shows no such waiver m fact or in law, and the
court had no power to try the cause while the Senate was in
session.
The defendant's supposed waiver, whatever its legal effect,
could, in any event, extend no further than the period during
which the defendant failed to set up his constitutional imunity, and after March 29, 1904, the court had no power to
pronounce the judgment and sentence of April 6, 1904, the
Senate being then in session.
The proceedings involve the Constitution, or application of
the Constitution, within the meaning of §5 of the act of March 3,
1891, and a writ will lie direct to this court. The trial
and judgment are in conflict with the immunity of a Senator
from imprisonment during the session. 2 Paterson Liberty
of the Subject, 140, 188 et seq., Rev Stat. § 727, May's Const.
Hist. II, ch. VII, 4th ed. 3, and ch. XI, 3 Stubb's Const. Hist.
538, Cooley's Const. Lim., 6th ed., 160; Jefferson's Parl. Man.
§3, on Privilege, Yonge's Const. Hist. 370; Lord Campbell's
Speeches, 179; 2 Hardcastle's Life, 1 Campbell, 188. As to
what a defendant in a criminal prosecution may waive, see

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
196 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

Hopt v Utah, 110 U S. 574, 579; Thompson v Utah, 170 U S.
343, 353, Schwk v United States, Harlan, J 's, dissent, 195
U. S. 65.
Evidence was improperly admitted and the trial court did
not by its charge and instructions to the jury cure the error
which it made m the admission of improper evidence; but, on
the contrary, confirmed such error. It also erred in its additional charge to the jury after they had come back for further
instructions as well as in its original charge and instructions.
First, in its instructions on propositions of law, and also in depriving the defendant of his constitutional right to have the
question of his guilt of the charge laid in the indictment tried
and decided by the jury United States v Burr, Appendix
4 Cranch. 470; and Second, in coercing the jury into rendering a verdict of guilty
It is error to instruct so that the instruction implies that the
court requires a conviction. Hodges v The State, 15 Georgia,
117, 121.
Mr Solicitor General Hoyt for the United States:
No constitutional question is presented or was saved so as
to justify direct review in this court unless the court think
fit to issue certiorari.
There are four important questions in the case: (1) Was
there any proceeding pending before the Post Office Department in which the United States was interested? (2) Did the
accused render services with the intent to influence the Department in such proceeding, and did he receive compensation
therefor? (3) Did the trial court have jurisdiction? (4) Did
the accused waive his privilege as Member of Congress, and
was it competent for him to do so?
I. The power of Congress to legislate, and the authority of
the Postmaster General under legislation are very broad, and
the Postmaster General acts well within his established powers
when he institutes a fraud order inquiry Art. I, sec. 8, cl. 8,
Constitution, §§ 396, 3929, 5480, Rev Stat., § 44, Postal Laws

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for the United States.

196 U. S.

and Reg., Public Cleanng House v Coyne, 194 U. S. 497,
Bates & Guild Co. v Payne, 194 U S. 106, In re Rapier, 143
U. S. 110.
No branch of any executive department more closely affects
the people than the postal service and the United States is
interested in a fraud order inquiry both because its revenue
and property rights are affected, and because its intangible
functions and responsibilities constitute an interest within the
meaning of the law The United States is vitally interested
to protect the people against a fraudulent use of the mails,
and to prevent the dissemination of the "literature" of a
fraudulent scheme. As to the broad scope of the Government's "interest" as parens patnte, see United States v Buntzng, 82 Fed. Rep. 883, 884, Palmer v Colladay, 18 D C. App.
426, Tyner v United States, 32 Wash. Law Rep. 258, Curley
v United States, 130 Fed. Rep. 1, 3-9.
II. Under the proved facts as to services to the Rialto
Company, especially when they are regarded together and
consecutively, there can be no doubt that services were rendered and compensation received in violation of the statute.
III. The last payment was made in cash to the accused at
St. Louis, and that is sufficient to sustain the judgment.
Claassenv United States, 142 U S.140; Evans v United States,
153 U S. 584, 595, Goode v United States, 159 U S. 669;
Putnam v United States, 162 U S. 687, Rzce v Ames, 180
U S. 371. But the counts on the checks are good. The
Government proved a custom and usage prevailing in Washington of regarding such checks as collection items, although
because of a customer's good standing immediate credit might
be given, such items being subject to immediate charge back
if returned unpaid. The checks were not purchased by the
bank, they were collected for Burton and paid to him at St.
Louis. This question of purchase or collection was submitted
to the jury under proper instructions. Ward v Smith, 7 Wall.
447, Dodge v Savngs & Trust Co., 93 U S. 379; Evansville
Bank v German Amercan Bank, 155 U S.556, and cases cited,

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
196 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

Scott v Ocean Bank, 23 N. Y 289, St. Louss & S. F Ry. Co. v
Johnston, 133 U S. 566. Authorities cited by plaintiff in error
distinguished.
Section 731, Rev Stat., supports the jurisdiction below, because at all events the offense as well as the process of payment
was completed at St. Louis. That statute is constitutional.
In re Palliser, 136 U S. 257, Homer v United States, 143
U S. 207, Putnamv United States, 162 U S. 687 Where an
offense is begun in one district and completed in another it
can be tried in the latter district.
IV The accused was not arrested. That is the only privilege, exemption from arrest. It applies only to arrests in
civil proceedings and not to indictable offenses. It was
promptly waived. It is purely personal and may be waived.
Arts. of Confed., Art. V, Bill of Rights of 1689, Stubbs, Select
Charters of Const. History, 2d ed., Oxford, Clarendon Press,
pp. 523-525, Art. I, sec. 6, cl. 1, of the Constitution, Coxe v
McClenachan, 3 Dall. 478, 1 Bl. Com. 164, 165, Bowyer's Com.
on Const. Law of England, 82-84, Hallam's Const. Hist.,
vol. III, pp. 379 et seq., Salk. 505, Stockdale v Hansard, 9 Ad.
and El. 225, 1 Win. & M. § 2, c. 2, 12 & 13 Win. III, c. 3,
11 Geo. II, c. 24, 10 Geo. III, c. 50; 1 Jac. I, c. 13, Viner's
Abridgment, vol. II, p. 36, Bartlett v Hebbes, 5 Term Rep. 686,
Geyer's Lessee v Irunn, 4 Dall. 107, I Story on the Const.

§865.
This privilege is not like the right of trial by jury, which is a
universal mandate to guard a system of jurisprudence and
protect all the people, and therefore because of the public
interest in the principle can only be waived and modified under
certain peculiar conditions and situations. Hopt v Utah, 110
U S. 574. When there is no constitutional mandate and no
public policy prohibiting, an accused may waive any privilege
which he is given the right to enjoy Schwk v United States;
Broadwel v United States, 195 U S. 65. Constituents are interested in being represented in the legislature at all times
during a session, but they are also interested in being properly

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

196 U. S.

represented, and a man under indictment is not fit to represent them. The public is thus interested in having the privilege waived and the charge determined as promptly as possible. Waiver is requisite for another reason, it is an unwritten
law of the Senate that it refrains from action within its own
power to discipline or expel, provided only that a member
under indictment does not appear in the Senate while such
charge in the courts is undetermined in his favor. In that
case two courses only are open, either to waive the privilege
and proceed to trial on the member's initiative, or else resign
and give the electors the opportunity to select a fit representative.
the foregoing statement of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making

Counsel for defendant base their right to obtain a direct
review by this court of the judgment of conviction in the District Court of Missouri upon the contention that the case involves the construction and application of the Constitution of
the United States in several particulars. They insist that
under Article 3, section 2, of the Constitution, and also under
the Sixth Amendment of the same, the defendant was entitled
to be tried by a jury of the State or district in which the crime
alleged against him in the indictment was committed. This
question arises by reason of those -counts of the indictment
which charge the receipt by defendant of various checks therein
set forth, at St. Louis, in the State of Missouri, while the evidence in the case shows, without contradiction, that the checks
were received in the city of Washington, D. C., and payment
thereof made to defendant by one of the banks of that city
Counsel contended that if any crime were committed by the
receipt of these checks and the payment thereof to the defendant (which is denied), that crime was committed in Washmgton and not in Missouri, and that it did not come within
section 731 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, pro-

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
196 U. S.

Opunon of the Court.

viding that when an offense against the United States is begun
in one judicial circuit and completed in another it shall be
deemed to have been committed in either, and may be dealt
with, etc., in either district, in the same manner as if it had
been actually and wholly committed therein. Counsel for
defendant also contend that the case involves the construction
and application of section 6 of Article I of the Constitution of
the United States, providing that Senators and Representatives
shall, in all cases except treason, felony and breach of the
peace, be privileged from arrest during their attendance at the
sessions of their respective houses and in going to and returnmg from the same. These questions were raised in the court
below Whether the defendant waived his alleged privilege of
freedom from arrest as Senator would probably depend upon
the question whether the offense charged was in substance a
felony, and if so, was that privilege a personal one only, and
not given for the purpose of always securing the representation
of a State in the Senate of the United States. However that
may -be, the question is not frivolous, and in such case the
statute grants to this court jurisdiction to issue the writ of error
directly to the District Court, and then to decide the case
without being restricted to the constitutional question. Homer
v United States, No. 2, 143 U S. 570. It is not the habit of
the court to decide questions of a constitutional nature unless
absolutely necessary to a decision of the case. Having jurisdiction to decide all questions in the case on this writ of error,
we deny the motion for a certiorari, and proceed to an examination of the record.
First. The question of the construction of the statute upon
which this indictment was framed is the first to arise. Upon
that question a majority of the court (Mr. Justice Harlan,
Mr. Justice Brown, Mr. Justice McKenna, Mr. Justice Holmes
and Mr. Justice Day concurring) are of opinion that the facts
alleged in the indictment show a case that is covered by the
provisions of the statute, while the Chief Justice, Mr. Justice Brewer, Mr. Justice White and the writer of this opinion

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opnion of the Court.

196 U. S.

dissent from that view, and are of opinion that the statute does
not cover the case as alleged in the indictment.
Second. Assuming that the statute applies to the facts stated
in the indictment, a further question arises upon the general
merits of the case, whether there was sufficient evidence of
guilt to be submitted to the jury, and a majority of the court
(the same Justices concurring) are of opinion that there was,
or are not prepared to say there was not, and the same minority
dissent from that view and are of opinion that there was no
evidence whatever upon which to found a verdict of conviction.
There are, however, other questions remaining, which we
now proceed to discuss on the theory that the statute covers
the case.
Third. The sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth counts of the
indictment aver the receipt by the defendant of the different
checks described, at the city of St. Louis, in the State of
Missouri, and the payment of the money thereon to the defendant at St. Louis, in that State, as compensation for services
theretofore performed by the defendant for the Rialto Company It may be assumed that on the facts averred in these
various counts in the indictment upon the checks, each of them
was good. It turned out, however, on the trial that these
averments of the place where the different checks were received and paid were not true, but, on the contrary, the evidence was wholly undisputed that each of them was received
by the defendant in the city of Washington, D C., and by him
there indorsed and deposited with the Riggs National Bank
of Washington, D C., and that they were afterwards duly paid
by the Commonwealth Trust Company at St. Louis, Missouri,
that the amount of each was in each instance immediately
credited by the Riggs National Bank to the account of the
defendant with the bank, and the cashier testified that the
defendant had the right, immediately after the credit was
made, to draw out the whole, or any portion thereof, without
waiting for the payment of the check at St. Louis.

BURTON 'v. UNITED STATES.
196 U. S.

Opuuon of the Court.

There was no oral or special agreement made between the
defendant and the bank at the time when any one of the checks
was deposited and credit given for the amount thereof. The
defendant had an account with the bank, took each check when
it arrived, went to the bank, indorsed the check which was
payable to his order, and the bank took the check, placed the
amount thereof to the credit of the defendant's account, and
nothing further was said in regard to the matter. In other
words, it was the ordinary case of the transfer or sale of the
check by the defendant and the purchase of it by the bank,
and upon its delivery to the bank, under the circumstances
stated, the title to the check passed to the bank and it became
the owner thereof. It was in no sense the agent of the defendant for the purpose of collecting the amount of the check
from the trust company upon which it was drawn. From
the time of the delivery of the check by the defendant to the
bank it became the owner of the check, it could have torn it
up or thrown it in the fire or made any other use or disposition
of it which it chose, and no right of defendant would have been
infringed. The testimony of Mr. Brice, the cashier of the Riggs
National B nk, as to the custom of the bank when a check
was not paid, of charging it up against the depositor'saccount,
did not in the least vary the legal effect of the transaction, it
was simply a method pursued by the bank of exacting payment from the indorser of the check, and nothing more.
There was nothing whatever in the evidence showing any
agreement or understanding as to the effect of the transaction
between the parties-the defendant and the bank-making it
other than such as the law would imply from the facts already
stated. The forwarding of the check "for collection," as stated
by Mr. Brice, was not a collection for defendant by the bank as
his agent. It was sent forward to be paid, and the Riggs Bank
was its owner when sent. With reference to the jurisdiction
of the court over the offense described in the sixth and followmg counts in the indictment, the court held that if the checks
were actually received by the defendant in Washington and

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

196 U. S.

the money paid to him by the bank in that city, and the title
and ownership of the checks passed to the bank at that time,
the court m Missouri had no jurisdiction to try the offense set
forth m those counts of the indictment already referred to.
There was no question that such was the fact, and it was error
to submit the matter to the jury to find some other fact not
supported by any evidence. The court said.
"The Government claims that the compensation referred to
in this count was sent to the accused by the Rialto Gram and
Securities Company, m the form of a check, drawn by it on the
Commonwealth Trust Company, payable to the order of the
accused, by mail, that he received the check representing this
compensation at Washington, in the District of Columbia, and
then and there indorsed the check, deposited it to his own
credit m the Riggs National Bank at Washington, that the
last mentioned bank afterwards forwarded the check by and
through its correspondents to St. Louis for payment by the
Commonwealth Trust Company, upon which it was drawn, and
that the Riggs Bank and its correspondents in all this matter
became and were the agents of the accused for securing this
money, and when the money called for by the check was finally
paid at St. Louis, Missouri, by the trust company, on which
it was drawn, it amounted to a payment of that money to the
accused at St. Louis, Missouri. This suggests an important
feature of the case, for the reason that unless it be true that
the accused received the money represented by and paid on
this check at St. Louis, this court would have no jurisdiction
to try the case."
"The Constitution of the United States confers upon the
accused in every criminal case the right to be tried by an
impartial jury of a State and district where the crime shall
have been committed.
"The receipt of the money is the gist of the crime charged
against the accused, and if he did not receive it in this district,
in fact in St. Louis, where he is charged to have received it, he
is not amenable to the law in this district, and cannot be con-

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
196 U. S.

Opinon of the Court.

victed in this court on this sixth count. Accordingly, it becomes your duty to ascertain and find from the evidence what
were the true relations between the accused and the Washington bank, when he deposited the check in question with that
bank, and what was the understanding between them as to
their respective rights in relation to the check and the proceeds
thereof. On this question the court charges you as follows:
"If it was the intent and understanding of the Washington
bank and the accused at the time the latter deposited the
check in question with the former, that the bank should forward the same in the usual course by and through its correspondents to St. Louis, for payment, and that in so doing it
and its correspondents should act only as the agents of the
accused for that purpose, then the final payment by the Commonwealth Trust Company at St. Louis, of the check to the
correspondents of the Washington bank, would amount in law
to a payment in St. Louis as charged in the sixth count, of the
amount of the check to the accused. If on the contrary it was
the understanding and intent of the Washington bank and
the accused at the time the latter deposited the check in question with the former that the bank should become the purchaser of the check, and should thereafter be the absolute
owner thereof, and not act as just indicated, as the agent of the
accused in the collection of the check, then the payment at
St. Louis by the Commonwealth Trust Company would amount
in law to a payment to the Washington bank and not to the
accused. In the latter event no crime would have been committed by the accused in this district, by reason of the check
referred to in the sixth count of the indictment.
"In order to find the accused guilty on the sixth count, you
must find from the evidence, by the same measure of proof as
is required in all criminal cases, that the check referred to in
the sixth count was deposited by the accused in the Washington bank for collection, and that the bank was to act in collectmg the same, as the agent of the accused, and not as the owner
of the check in question.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opnion of the Court.

196 U. S.

"In determining this issue, you are at liberty to and should
consider all the evidence adduced, the actual transaction as it
occurred at the Riggs Bank where the check was deposited, the
check itself and all its endorsements, the rights and privileges
which were immediately accorded the accused upon making
the deposit, the actual conduct and purpose of the Riggs Bank
in forwarding the check to St. Louis for payment, the customary conduct and uqage of that bank, and all banks in Washington at the time so far as shown by the proof. And if from
all these facts and all other facts disclosed by the proof you
find that the check in question was in fact deposited by the
accused, with the intent and knowledge on his part, as well as
on the part of the bank itself, that it should be forwarded to
St. Louis for collection for account of the accused, the bank
and its correspondents acting as agents for the accused to
make such collection, you should find that when the same was
actually paid to the last mdorser on the check at St. Louis by
the trust company upon which it was drawn, it was in contemplation of law paid to the accused himself.
"If on the contrary you find from the evidence that the
accused and the Riggs Bank, at the time of the deposit of the
check in question, understood and intended that the bank
should become the purchaser of the check and be its absolute
owner, then the subsequent forwarding of it to St. Louis for
payment was the act of the bank itself, and the final payment
of the check by the trust company at St. Louis was a payment not to the accused, but to the bank, and if such is the
fact your verdict on the sixth count must be not guilty"
A careful scrutiny of the evidence with relation to this charge
to the jury shows that there was no foundation for submitting
to the jury the question of what was the understanding (other
than such as arose from the transaction itself, as shown by
uncontradicted evidence) between the defendant and the bank
at the time when these various checks were deposited with the
bank and their proceeds placed to the credit of the defendant.
There was no agreement or understanding of any kind other

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

than such as the law makes from the transaction detailed,
which was itself proved by uncontradicted evidence offered by
the Government itself. In the absence of any special agreement that the effect of the transaction shall be otherwise (and
none can be asserted here), there is no doubt that its legal effect
is a change of ownership of the paper, and that the subsequent
action of the bank in taking steps to obtain payment for itself
of the paper which it had purchased can m no sense be said to
be the action of an agent for its principal, but the act of an
owner in regard to its own property The learned judge in his
charge to the jury did not, indeed, deny the general truth of
this proposition, but he left it to the jury to determine whether
there was not an agreement or understanding made or arrived
at by the parties at the time the checks were taken by the
defendant to the bank, which altered the legal effect of the
transaction actually proved. This, as we have said, there was
not the slightest evidence of, and it was error to submit that
question to the jury
The general transactions between the bank and a customer
in the way of deposits to a customer's credit and drawing
against the account by the customer constitute the relation
of creditor and debtor. As is said by Mr. Justice Davis, in
delivering the opinion of the court in Bank of the Republic v
Millard,-10 Wall. 152, in speaking of this relationship, page
155
"It is an important part of the business of banking to receive deposits, but when they are. received, unless there are
stipulations to the contrary, they belong to the bank, become
part of its general funds, and can be loaned by it as other
moneys. The banker is accountable for the deposits which he
receives as a debtor, and he agrees to discharge these debts by
honoring the checks which the depositors shall from time to
time draw on him. The contract between the parties is purely
a legal one, and has nothing of the nature of a trust in it. This
subject was fully discussed by Lords Cottenham, Brougham,
Lyndhurst and Campbell in the House of Lords in the case of

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

Foley v Hill, 2 Clark & Finnelly, 28, and they all concurred m
the opinion that the relation between a banker and customer,
who pays money into the bank, or to whose credit money is
placed there, is the ordinary relation of debtor and creditor,
and does not partake of a fiduciary character, and the great
weight of American authorities is to the same effect."
When a check is taken to a bank, and the bank receives it
and places the amount to the credit of a customer, the relation
of creditor and debtor between them subsists, and it is not that
of principal and agent. This principle is held m Thompson v
Riggs, 5 Wall. 663, and also m Marnne Bank v Fulton Bank,
2 Wall. 252. See also Scammon v Kimball, 92 U. S. 362, 369;
Davs v Elmira Savings Bank, 161 U. S. 275, 288.
The case of Cragie v Hadley, 99 N. Y 131, contains a statement of the rule as follows, per Andrews, J..
"The general doctrine that upon a deposit made by a customer, in a bank, in the ordinary course of business, or of money,
or of drafts or checks received and credited as money, the title
to the money, or to the drafts or checks, is immediately vested
in and becomes the property of the bank, is not open to question. (Commercial Bank of Albany v Hughes, 17 Wend. 94,
MetropolitanNat. Bank v Loyd, 90 N. Y 530.) The transaction m legal effect is a transfer of the money, or drafts or
checks, as the case may be, by the customer to the bank, upon
an implied contract on the part of the latter to repay the
amount of the deposit upon the checks of the depositor. The
bank acquires title to the money, drafts or checks, on an inplied agreement to pay an equivalent consideration when
called upon by the depositor in the usual course of business."
In Metropolitan Nat. Bank v Loyd, 90 N. Y 530, one of the
cases referred to by Judge Andrews, Judge Danforth, m speakmg of the effect of placing a check to the credit of a depositor
m his account with the bank, said that"The title passed to the bank, and they (the checks) were
not again subject to his control. [See Scott v Ocean Bank in

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
196 U. S.

Opunon of the Court.

City of New York, 23 N. Y 289, and other cases cited in the
opinion.]
"It is true no express agreement was made transferring the
check for so much money, but it was delivered to the bank
and accepted by it, and the bank gave Murray credit for the
amount, and he accepted it. That was enough. The property
in the check passed from Murray and vested in the bank. He
was entitled to draw the money so credited to him, for as to it
the relation of debtor and creditor was formed, and the right
of Murray to command payment at once was of the very nature
and essence of the transaction. On the other hand, the bank,
as owner of the check, could confer a perfect title upon its
transferee, and, therefore, when by its directions the plaintiff
received and gave credit for it upon account, it became its
owner and entitled to the money which it represented.
If, as the appellant insists, the check had been deposited for a
specific purpose-for collection, the property would have remamed in the depositor, but there is no evidence upon which
such fact could be established, nor is it consistent with the
dealings between the parties, or with any of the admitted
circumstances.
"These show that it was the intention of both parties to
make the transfer of the check absolute, and not merely to
enable the bank to receive the money upon it, as Murray's
agent."
The same principle is set forth in Taft v Bank, 172 Massachusetts, 363. In that case the court said. "So when, without
more, a bank receives upon deposit a check endorsed without
restriction, and gives credit for it to the depositor as cash in a
drawing account, the form of the transaction is consistent with
and indicates a sale, in which, as with money so deposited, the
check becomes the absolute property of the banker."
In the case at bar the proof was not disputed. The checks
were passed to the credit of defendant unconditionally, and
without any special understanding. The custom of the bank

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinon of the Court.

196 U. S.

to forward such checks for collection is a plain custom to forward for collection for itself. The only liability of defendant
was on his mdorsement. All this made a payment at Washmgton, and as a result there was a total lack of evidence to
sustain the sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth counts of the
indictment. The court should have, therefore, directed a
verdict of not guilty on those counts.
This is not a case of the commencement of a crime in one
district and its completion in another, so that under the statute
the court in either district has jurisdiction. Rev Stat. sec. 731,
1 Comp. Stat. p. 585. There was no beginning of the offense
m Missouri. The payment of the money was in Washington,
and there was no commencement of that offense when the
officer of the Rialto Company sent the checks from St. Louis
to defendant. The latter did not thereby begin an offense m
Missouri.
Fourth. The judgment must also be reversed because of the
error in the refusal of the court to charge as requested when the
jury came into court and announced an inability to agree.
Previous to the retirement of the jury the defendant's counsel
submitted to the court certain requests to charge the jury
twelve m all. Those numbered seven, ten and eleven were
refused. Numbers ten and eleven referred to the checks and
the effect of the transaction of depositing them with the Riggs
Bank. The other instructions referred to many of the questions arising m the case, and material upon the subject of the
trial then before the court. After the court had concluded his
main charge to the jury he added that he had been "asked by
counsel for the defendant to give certain declarations here,
and while I think they have, in the main, been covered by the
charge, yet I will give them to you." (They were the instructions requested by defendant and above described.)
"These are abstract propositions of law, which I give in connection with the charge, as perhaps more fully amplifying it.
I am willing to give them, inasmuch as they are asked, and they
contain general propositions of law" The jury then retired,

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
196 U. S.

Opinon of the Court.

and after being out from Saturday evening at 8 o'clock until
the following Monday morning at 10 o'clock without agreeing,
returned into court and were charged by the court in relation
to their duty as jurors. In the course of that charge the court
said to the jury as follows:
"I gather from this letter, Mr. Foreman, what I may be
incorrect about. I would like to ask the foreman of the jury
how you are divided. I do not want to know how many stand
for conviction, or how many for acquittal, but to know the
number who stand the one way and the number who stand
another way I would like the statement from the foreman.
"The FOREMAN Eleven to one.
"The COURT" The jury stand eleven to one. I gather that
from the communication. In the light of that fact I feel constrained to make a statement to you, and in making it to use
the language of the Supreme Court of the United States as
found in Allen v United States." (164 U. S.492.)
The court then charged the jury in relation to its duty to
agree if possible, and directed that the jury should, in the light
of the comments of the court then made, retire and make a
serious attempt to arrive at a verdict in the case. Counsel for
the defendant then asked the court to indicate to the jury
that the requests to charge theretofore, asked by the defendant
and which were given by the court, constitute as much a part"The CounT If you will wait a moment the jury may retire.
"Mr. KuuMi. I beg your Honor to state to the jury"The COURT" Stop a moment and then I will hear your
argument. I will, after the jury retire, hear counsel if they
have anything to say, or any exceptions they may wish to take
to the charge." The court here handed the foreman of the jury
the charge and instructions heretofore referred to and directed
the jury to retire for further consideration of their verdict.
"Mr. Lr.H N I do not believe that the requests to charge
in the manner made by defendant and given by the court to
the jury, were given as they should have been, the suggestions
being made by the court at the time, that they were mere abVOL. cxcvx-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

196 U. S.

stract statements, which had the effect to deprive them of
something of their force, when they were not intended as mere
abstractions and were believed by counsel to have specific
reference to the case, and those instructions as well as others
ought to be called to the attention of the jury We must except here as earnestly as it is in our power to do, against the
charge of the court made now
"The CouRT- If you except, I will allow the exception.
"Mr. KiRupi: What I desire to do in the presence of the jury
was to ask your Honor to indicate to the jury, as it was evident
the jury did not understand, that it was a fact that the requests to charge which were recognized by the court, acquiesced in by the court and given by the court, were just as
much a part of your Honor's charge as that which the court
read as emanating from the court itself.
"The CouRT- I did tell the jury so on Saturday
"Mr. KRumi. I submit it is apparent that they do not understand that they are just as much to be controlled by that part
of the instructions as any other part. That is evident from
the inquiry made.
"The COURT" The court has endeavored to answer the only
request made by the jury, and that is all I think should be
done."
We think the court should have instructed the jury as requested by counsel for the defendant, and that its refusal to
do so was error. Here was a case of very great doubt in the
minds of some of the jury It had deliberated for more than
thirty-six hours and been unable to agree upon a verdict. The
requests to charge originally made by counsel for defendant
had at that time been received as abstract propositions of law,
which the court gave in connection with the charge, saying
that he was willing to give them inasmuch as they were asked,
and as they contained general propositions of law It does
not appear from the bill of exceptions that defendant's counsel
then excepted to those remarks by the court, but when the
jury subsequently returned into court and announced their

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

inability to agree, counsel for defendant immediately saw the
extreme importance of having the requests to charge made to
the court regarded by the jury, not as abstract or general
propositions of law, but as requests which affected the case
then on trial with reference to the facts proved in the case;
and so, before the jury again retired, they commenced to propound their requests upon the subject to the court, but the
court before listening to them instructed the jury to retire,
and then followed the colloquy above set forth between court
and counsel.
Balanced as the case was in the minds of some of the jurors,
doubts existing as to the defendant's guilt in the mind of at
least one, it was a case where the most extreme care and caution
were necessary in order that the legal rights of the defendant
should be preserved. Considering the attitude of the case as
it existed when the jury returned into court for further instructions, we think the defendant was entitled, as matter of
legal right, to the charge asked for in regard to the previous
requests to charge, which had been granted by the court under
the circumstances stated, and it was not a matter of discretion
whether the jury should, or should not, be charged as to the
character of those requests. A slight thing may have turned
the balance against the accused under the circumstances shown
by the record, and he ought not to have longer remained
burdened with the characterization of his requests to charge,
made by the court, and when he asked for the assertion by the
court of the materiality and validity of those requests which
had already been made, the court ought to have granted the
request.
We must say in addition, that a practice ought not to grow
up of mquiring of a jury, when brought into court because
unable to agree, how the jury is divided, not meaning by such
question, how many stand for conviction or how many stand
for acquittal, but meaning the proportion of the division, not
which way the division may be. Such a practice is not to be
commended, because we cannot see how it may be material

OCTOBER TERMI,
HEA.LA,

1904.

J., diss9nting.

196 U. S.

for the court to understand the proportion of division of opinion among the jury All that the judge said in regard to the
propriety and duty of the jury to fairly and honestly endeavor to agree could have been said without asking for the
fact as to the proportion of their division, and we do not think
that the proper administration of the law requires such knowledge or permits such a question on the part of the presiding
judge. Cases may easily be imagined where a practice of this
kind might lead to improper influences, and for this reason it
ought not to obtain.
Our conclusion is, that the judgment must be reversed and
the cause remanded to the District Court of Missouri with directions to grant a new trial.
So ordered.
MR. JusTicE HARLAN, dissenting.

I dissent from so much of the opinion and judgment as holds
that the offenses charged against the defendant, based on the
checks made at St. Louis and mentioned in the sixth, seventh,
eighth and ninth counts, were committed in this District,
where the checks were received by him, and not at St. Louis,
where they were paid by the bank on which they were drawn
for his benefit. I am of opinion that the Riggs National
Bank, upon receiving the checks from the accused, became, in
every substantial sense, his agent and representative to present
the checks and receive the proceeds thereof, in which case, the
offense of receiving, by means of those checks, compensation
for services rendered in violation of the statute was committed
at St. Louis, not at Washington. In a strict sense, no title or
ownership of the checks passed to the Riggs National Bank, as
in the case of an unconditional sale, consummated by actual
delivery, of tangible, personal property for the recovery of the
possession of which the owner could, of right, maintain an
action in his own name, for, if the St. Louis bank on which the
checks were drawn had refused to accept or honor them, no

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
196 U. S.

HARLAN, J., dissenting.

action on the checks, or at all, could have been maintained
against it by the Riggs National Bank. Bank of Republic v
Millard, 10 Wall. 152, 156, First National Bank v Whitman,
94 U. S. 343, 344, St. Lous &c. Railway v Johnston, 133 U S.
566, 574, Fourth Street Bank v Yardley, 165 U S. 634, 643.
The checks were made at St. Louis and sent by mail from that
city to the accused in discharge of an obligation assumed by
his client at that city, and, as between him and his client, in
the absence of any special agreement on the subject, compensation for services rendered by him before the Department
could only be deemed to have been really made when -the
checks were paid by the bank on which they were directly
drawn. It is true that when the Riggs National Bank received
the checks and credited the account of the accused on its books
with the amount thereof, there arose, as between that bank
and him, only the relation of debtor and creditor. But when
his account at that bank was so credited, he became liable, by
implied contract-if the St. Louis bank failed to accept or pay
the check when presented-to pay back to the bank an amount
equal to the credit he received on the books of the Riggs National Bank. If the St. Louis bank had refused to accept or
pay the checks when presented, and if the accused had then
sued his client on its original contract with him, the latter
could not have resisted recovery upon the ground that he received compensation by having his account at the Washington
bank credited with the amount of the checks. Suppose the
accused had been indicted in Washington on the day after
the checks were mdorsed to the Riggs National Bank, and
the checks were not honored or paid when presented at the
St. Louis bank, could he in that case have been convicted under
the statute by proof that he received such credit at the former
bank for the amount of the checks? Clearly not. Yet he could
have been, if it be true that he was compensated, within the
meaning of the statute, when his account with the Riggs National Bank was credited with the amount of the checks. As
between the accused and his client, he was not, in any true

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

sense, compensated for the services alleged to have been rendered in violation of the statute, until by payment of the
checks by the St. Louis bank he was relieved of all liability to
the Riggs National Bank arismg from his indorsing the checks
to it. The accused is to be regarded as having received, at
St. Louis, compensation for his services, because the check
made in his behalf was paid there to his representative. The
offense was, therefore, consummated at that city, and the
Federal Court at St. Louis had jurisdiction.
Nor, in my opinion, does the record show any error, in respect of instructions that were to the substantial prejudice of
the accused, no error for which the judgment should be reversed.
It seems to me that 'in reversing the judgment upon the
grounds stated in the opinion the court has sacrificed substance to mere form. The result, I submit, well illustrates
the familiar maxim. Qui haeret n litera haeret mn cortice.

UNITED STATES v. HARVEY STEEL COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 275. Argued January 3,4,190M.-Decided January 16, 1906.

The United States made a contract with the steel company for the use of
a process described as patented. The contract provided that m case it
should at any time be judicially decided "that the company was not
legally entitled under the patent to the process and the product the payment of royalties should cease. In a suit by the company for royalties
the United States attempted to deny the validity of the patent while
admitting there was no outstanding decision against it. Held, that this
defense was not open.
Held further, that under the circumstances of this case, the contract, properly
construed, extended to the process actually used even if it vaned somewhat from that described m the patent.

Tim facts are stated ii! the opinion.

