BUTTE CITY WATER CO. v. BAKER.
196 U. S.

Syllabus.

reasonable time in which to elect whether they will accept or
not. If they decline to take the property the bankrupt can
assert title thereto. American File Company v Garre(t, 110
U. S. 288, 295, Sparhawk v Yerkes, 142 U S. 1, Sessions v
Romadka, 145 U S. 29, Dushane v Beall, 161 U S. 513. But
that doctrine can have no application when the trustee is
ignorant 6f the existence of the property and has had no
opportunity to zmake an election. It cannot be that a bankrupt, by omitting to schedule and withholding from his trustee
all knowledge of certain property, can, after his estate in
bankruptcy has been finally closed up, immediately thereafter
assert title to the property on the ground that the trustee had
never talken any action in respect to it. If the claim was of
value (as certainly this claim was according to the judgment
below) it was something to which the creditors were entitled,
and this bankrupt could not, by withholding knowledge of its
existence, obtain a release from his debts and still assert title
to the property..
The 3udgment of the Court of Civil Appeals is reversed, and
the case remanded to that court for further proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.

BUTTE CITY WATER COMPANY v. BAKER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MONTANA.
No. 109. Argued December 16, 1904.-Decided January 3, i9M5.
While the disposal of the public lands is made through the exercise of legislative power entrusted to Congress by the Constitution, yet Congress
prescribing the main and substantial conditions thereof may rightfully entrust to local legislatures the determination of those minor matters as to
such disposal which amount to mere regulations.
Regulations made by the local legislatures in regard to the location of min-

OCTOBER TERTA, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

196 U. S.

mg claims which are not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of the
United States are not invalid as an exercise of a power which cannot be
delegated by Congress and such regulations must be complied with in
order to perfect title and ownership under the mining laws of the United
States.
Even if doubts exist were the matter wholly res sntegra, and although consequences may not determine a decision, this court will pause before declaring invalid legislation long since enacted, and the validity whereof has
been upheld by state courts and recognized by this court, and on the faith
of which property rights have been built up and countless titles rest which
would be unsettled by an adverse decision.
The regulations contained ia § 3612 of the Montana Code are not invalid
as being too stringent and therefore in conflict with the liberal purpose
manifested by Congress in its legislation respecting minng claims.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr L. Orns Evans, with whom Mr W W Dixon was on
the brief, for plaintiff in error"
Congress cannot delegate to a State the authority to legislate upon the sufficiency of records of location of mining
claims, that being one of the steps m the disposition of public
lands. Mares v Dillon, 75 Pac. Rep. 963.
Congress is vested with authority to regulate the disposal
of the public-lands. Sec. 3, Art. IV, Const. U S., Pollard v
Hagan,3 How 224, De Lima v Bidwell, 182 U S. 197, Jourdan
v Barrett,4 How 169, 185, Russell v Lowth, 18 Am. Rep. 389;
United States v Hughes, 1-1-How 552, 568, United States v.
G-ratwt, 14 Pet. 526, 537, United States v Fitzgerald, 15
Pet. 407, 421, 2 Story on Const. § 1328, 2 Tucker on Const.
605.
Not only is the power of disposition in Congress, but the
States have no authority whatever in the matter. Irine v.
Marshall, 20 How 558, Wilcox v Jackson, 13 Pet. 498, Gibson
v Choteau, 13 Wall. 92, 104, Seymour v Sanders, 3 Dill. 437,
Russell v Lowth, 21 Minnesota, 167, Miller v Little, 47 California, 348, Van Brocklin v Anderson, 117 U S. 151, 167,
Cross v Harrison,16 How 164, Headley v Coffman, 56 N. W
Rep. 701, Chapman v Quinn, 56 California, 266, 292, Kissell
v St. Louis, 18 How 19.

BUTTE CITY WATER CO. v. BAKER.

19 U. S.

Argument for Defendant m Error.

Congress has no right to delegate that power. The Constitution does not give it the authority to delegate it. A
legislative body has no power of delegation m the matter of
making laws. Cooley Const. Lim., 6th ed., 137, Field v Clark,
143 U S. 649, Wayman v Southard, 10 Wheat. 48, Re Rahrer,
140 U. S. 545.
Congress never has delegated, or attempted to delegate, to
the State, the authority claimed to have been exercised.
If Congress did delegate the authority to the State, the act
of the State, the agent, becomes the act of the National Government, the principal, and is to be finally construed by this
court.
Submitted by Mr Robert B. Smith and Mr J E. Healy for
defendant in error-

So long have state and local regulations been recognized,
either expressly or by implication in this court, that they
have become a rule of property under which mining titles
have been perfected and under which. rights have grown
up.
The statutes of the United States, §§ 2322, 2323, 2324, Rev
Stat., give full recognition to local and state rules and regulations, seemingly recognizing that under mining laws everywhere such local rules have ever existed where mining has been
carried on. Lmdley on Mines, 2d ed. §§ 1 to 25, O'Donnell v
Glenn, 19 Pac. Rep. 305, Baker v Water Company, 72 Pac.
Rep. 617, Jackson v Roby, 109 U S. 440; Erhardt v Boaro,
113 U. S. 527, Shoshone Mining Co. v Rutter, 177 U S. 505,
Tellurde Co. v Railway Co., 175 U. S. 639; De Lamar Co. v
Nesbitte, 177 U. S. 524, Speed v MacCarthy, 181 U S. 275,
Blackburn v PortlandMining Co., 175 U S. 571.
The act of Montana of July 1, 1895, was modeled after
the Colorado law in the main, and was not adopted m Montana very long before it was copied in Nevada. Sisson v
Sommers, 55 Pac. Rep. 829; Purdum v "Laddin,59 Pac. Rep.
153.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.
MR.JUSTICE BREWER

196 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action of ejectment brought m the District
Court of Silver Bow County, Montana. The dispute was between two locations of the same mining ground. The defendant's location was adjudged invalid by the trial court, and its
decision was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State, on
the ground of a failure to comply with certain Montana statutes.
28 Montana, 222. These statutes contained regulations concerning the location of mining claims m addition to those prescribed by Congressional legislation, and the question is as to
the validity of those additional requirements.
Section 2319, Rev Stat., provides that "All valuable mmeral deposits in lands belonging to the United States, both
surveyed and unsurveyed, are hereby declared to be free and
open to exploration and purchase, and the lands in which they
are found to occupation and purchase, by citizens of the United
States and those who have declared their intention to become
such, under regulations prescribed by law, and according to
the local customs or rules of miners in the several mining districts, so far as the same are applicable and not inconsistent
with the laws of the United States."
Section 2322 gives to the locators the exclusive right of
possession and enjoyment of all the surface included within
the lines of their locations, "so long as they comply with the
laws of the United States, and with State, Territorial, and
local regulations not in conflict with the laws of the United
States governing their possessory title."
Section 2324 contains this grant of authority"SEc. 2324. The miners of each mining district may make
regulations not in conflict with the laws of the United States,
or with the laws of the State or Territory m which the district
is situated, governing the location, manner of recording,
amount of work necessary to hold possession of a mining
claim, subject to the following requirements: The location must
be distinctly marked on the ground so that its boundaries can

BUTTE CITY WATER CO. r BAKER.
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be readily traced. All records of mining claims hereafter made
shall contain the name or names of the locators, the date of
the location, and such a description of the claim or claims
located by reference to some natural object or permanent
monument as will identify the claim."
Section 2332 makes the statute of limitations for mining
claims of a State applicable for certain purposes to mining
claims under the Government.
Section 2338 reads as follows:
"As a condition of sale, in the absence of necessary legislation by Congress, the local legislature of any State or Territory
may provide rules for working mines, involving easements,
drainage, and other necessary means to their complete development; and those conditions shall be fully expressed m the
patent."
Section 2339 contains this clause:
"Whenever, by priority of possession, rights to the use of
water for mining, agricultural, manufacturing, or other purposes, have vested and accrued, and the same are recognized
and acknowledged by the local customs, laws, and the decisions
of courts, the possessors and owners of such vested rights shall
be maintained and protected in the same."
In 1893 Congress passed an act (28 Stat. 6) relieving from
the necessity of the annual labor for that year, "so that no
mining claim which has been regularly located and recorded
as required by the local laws and mining regulations shall be
subject to forfeiture for non-performance of the annual assessment for the year eighteen hundred and ninety-three," and a
similar statute was enacted in 1894 in respect to the annual
labor for that year 28 Stat. 114.
While in the above sections there is not that direct grant of
authority to the State to legislate respecting locations as there
is to miners to make regulations, yet there is a clear recognition
of such legislation. All these statutory provisions, except the
last two sections referred to, were embodied in the legislation
of 1872, and have been in force ever since.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

Acting upon the belief that they were fully authorized,
nearly all, if not all, the States in the mining regions have
passed statutes prescribing additional regulations in respect
to the location of mining claims, some having been m force for
more than a score of years.
This court has in many cases recognized the validity of such
state legislation. In Belk v Meagher, 104 U S. 279, 284,
Chief Justice Waite, speaking for the court, declared that "a
location is not made by taking possession alone, but by working on the ground, recording, and doing whatever else is required for that purpose by the acts of Congress and the local
laws and regulations."
In Erhardt v Boaro, 113 U S. 527, it appeared that there
were no mining regulations prescribed by the miners of the
district, and it was said by Mr. Justice Field (p. 536)
"We are therefore left entirely to the laws of the United
States and the laws of Colorado on the subject. And the laws
of the United States do not prescribe any time in which the
excavations necessary to enable the locator to prepare and
record a certificate shall be made. That is left to the legislation of the State, which, as we have stated, prescribes sixty
days for the excavations upon the vein from the date of discovery, and thirty days afterwards for the preparation of the
certificate and filing it for record. In the judgment of the
legislature of that State this was reasonable time."
Kendall v San Juan Mining Company, 144 U S.658, turned
on the question of compliance by the locator with a regulation
prescribed by the statutes of Colorado concerning the record of
locations, and the decision was that a failure to comply rendered the attempted location mvalid. In Shoshone Mining
Company v Rutter, 177 U S. 505, it was held that a suit
brought in support of an adverse clain was not one of which
a Federal court necessarily had jurisdiction, because, as said
(p. 508)
"In a given case the right of possession may not involve
any question under the Constitution or laws of the United

BUTTE CITY WATER CO. v. BAKER.
196 U. S.

Opunon of the Court.

States, but simply a determination of local rules and customs,
or state statutes, or even only a mere matter of fact."
Other cases containing similar recognition might also be
cited.
The validity of such state legislation has been affirmed by
the Supreme Courts of several States. See in addition to the
present case Wofley v Lebanon Mining Co., 4 Colorado, 112,
O'Donnell v Glenn, 8 Montana, 248, Metcalf v Prescott, 10
Montana, 283, 293, Purdum v Laddin, 23 Montana, 387, Sisson
v Sommers, 24 Nevada, 379; Copper Globe Minsng Co. v Allman, 23 Utah, 410; Northmore v Simmons, 97 Fed. Rep. 386.
In 1 Lindley on Mines, 2d ed., sec. 249, the author says:
"State statutes in reference to mining rights upon the public
domain must, therefore, be construed in subordination to the
laws of Congress, as they are more in the nature of regulations
under these laws than independent legislation.
"State and territorial legislation, therefore, must be entirely
consistent with the Federal laws, otherwise it is of no effect.
The right to supplement Federal legislation conceded to the
State may not be arbitrarily exercised, nor has the State the
privilege of imposing conditions so onerous as to be repugnant
to the liberal spirit of the Congressional laws. On the other
hand, the State may not by its legislation dispense with the
performance of the conditions imposed by the national law,
nor relieve the locator from the obligation of performing in
good faith those acts which are declared by it to be essential
to the maintenance and perpetuation of the estate acquired
by location. Within these limits the State may legislate."
What is the ground upon which the validity of these supplementary regulations prescribed by a State is challenged? It
is insisted that the disposal of the public lands is an act of
legislative power, and that it is not within the competency of
a Jegislature to delegate to another body the exercise of its
power; that Congress alone has the right to dispose of the
public lands, and cannot transfer its authority to any state
legislature or other body The authority of Congress over the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

public lands is granted by section 3, article IV, of the Constitution, which provides that "the Congress shall have power to
dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the Territory or other property belonging to the United
States." In other words, Congress is the body to which is
given the power to determine the conditions upon which the
public lands shall be disposed of. The Nation is an owner,
and has made Congress the principal agent to dispose of its
property Is it inconceivable that Congress, having regard to
the interests of this owner, shall, after prescribing the main
and substantial conditions of disposal, believe that those interests will be subserved if minor and subordinate regulations
are entrusted to the inhabitants of the mining district or State
in which the particular lands are situated? While the disposition of these lands is provided for by Congressional legislation, such legislation savors somewhat of mere rules prescribed by an owner of property for its disposal. It is not of
a legislative character in the highest sense of the term, and as
an owner may delegate to his principal agent the right to
employ subordinates, giving to them a limited discretion, so
it would seem that Congress might rightfully entrust to the
local legislature the determination of minor matters respecting
the disposal of these lands.
Further, section 2324 distinctly grants to the miners of each
mining district the power to make regulations, and the validity
of this grant has been expressly affirmed by this court. In
Jackson v Roby, 109 U S. 440, 441, we said.
"The act of Congress of 1866 gave the sanction of law to
these rules of miners, so far as they were not in conflict with
the laws of the United States. 14 Stat. 251, c. 262, sec. 1.
Subsequent legislation specified with greater particularity the
modes of location and appropriation and extent of each mining claim, recognizing, however, the essential features of the
rules framed by miners, and among others that which required work on the claim for its development as a condition
of its continued ownership."

BUTTE CITY WATER CO. v. BAKER.
196 U. S.

Opunon of the Court.

See also Erhardt v Boaro, supra, in which (p. 535) is this
declaration.
"And although since 1866 Congress has to some extent
legislated on the subject, prescribing the limits of location and
appropriation and the extent of mining ground which one may
thus acquire, miners are still permitted, in their respective
districts, to make rules and regulations not in conflict with the
laws of the United States or of the State or Territory in which
the districts are situated, governing the location, manner of
recording, and amount of work necessary to hold possession
of a claim."
Now, if Congress has power to delegate to a body of miners
the making of additional regulations respecting location, it
cannot be doubted that it has equal power to delegate similar
authority to a state legislature.
Finally, it must be observed that this legislation was enacted
by Congress more than thirty years ago. It has been acted
upon as valid through all the mining regions of the country.
Property rights have been built up on the faith of it. To now
strike it down would unsettle countless titles and work manifold injury to the great mining interests of the Far West.
While, of course, consequences may not determine a decision,
yet in a doubtful case the court may well pause before thereby
it unsettles interests so many and so vast-interests which have
been built up on the faith not merely f Congressional action,
but also of judicial decisions of many state courts sustaining it,
and of a frequent recognition of its validity by this court.
Whatever doubts might exist if this matter was wholly res
ntegra, we have no hesitation in holding that the question
must be considered as settled by prior adjudications and cannot now be reopened.
The Montana statute (Montana Codes Annotated, sec. 3612)
among other supplementary regulations, provided that the
declaratory statement filed in the office of the clerk of the
county in which the lode or claim is situated must contain
"the dimensions and location of the discovery shaft, or its

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

196 U. S.

equivalent, sunk upon lode or placer claims," and "the location and description of each corner, with the markings thereon."
A failure to comply with these regulations was the ground upon
which'the Supreme Court of Montana held the location invalid.
It is contended that these provisions are too stringent, and conflict with the liberal purpose manifested by Congress in its
legislation respecting mining claims. We do not think that
they are open to this objection. They certainly do not conflict with the letter of any Congressional statute, on the contrary, are rather suggested by sec. 2324. It may well be that
the state legislature, in its desire to guard against false testimony in respect to a location, deemed it important that full
particulars in respect to the discovery shaft and the corner
posts should be at the very beginning placed of record. Even
if there were no danger of false testimony, it was not unreasonable to guard against the resurrection of incomplete locations when by subsequent explorations mining clams of great
value have been uncovered.
We see no error in the rulings of the Supreme Court of
Montana, and its judgment is

Affirmied.

CHICAGO, INDIANAPOLIS AND LOUISVILLE RAILWAY COMPANY v. McGUIRE.
ERROR TO THE APPELLATE COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
No. 69. Argued December 2,5,1904.-Decided JanuT3,1905.

Where certain facts from which a Federal question might arise were argued
in the state court, but their Federal character was not indicated, they
cannot be made the basis of a writ of error.
Where a petition to transfer the case to the Supreme Court of the State,
which contains a mere suggestion of the violation of a Federal right without any reference to the Constitution of the United States, is demed vithout opinion, this court may infer that the petition was denied because the
constitutional point was not made in the courts below, and if it was considered, the burden to show it is on the plaintiff in error.

