OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Syllabus.

196 U. S.

Congress has not specifically required it. Until the discovery
of a lode or vein within the tunnel, its owner has only a possibility He is like an explorer on the surface. Adverse proceedings are called for only when one mineral claimant contests
the right of another mineral claimant.
If the defendant was not estopped by a failure to institute
-adverse proceedings then the trial court erred in striking out
the parts of the answer in reference to the date of plaintiff's
discovery, and the judgment of the Court of Appeals was right.
This conclusion avoids the necessity of any inquiry as to the
effect of the alleged estoppel, and the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

RAMSEY v. TACOMA LAND COMPANY
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
No. 138. Submitted January 17,1905.-Decided January 30,1905.

In a remedial statute such as ยง 5, act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 557, enabling
bona fide purchasers from railroad companies to perfect their titles by
purchase from the Government in case the land purchased was not included in the grant the term "citizens," in the absence of anything to
indicate the contrary, includes state corporations.
Whether a bona fide purchaser from a railroad company acts with reasonable promptness in availing of the provisions of the act of March 3, 1887,
is a question primarily for the Land Department and one attempting to
enter the land is charged with knowledge of the act, the railroad's title and,
if the deeds have been properly recorded, of the claims of the railroad's
grantee and subsequent assigns; and, under the circumstances of this
case, this court will not set aside the decision of the Land Department
allowing a bona fide purchaser to avail of the privilege of the act within
ten months after the lands had been stricken from the company's list
as the result of a decision affecting that and other lands rendered ten
years after the purchase from the railroad company, and during which
period all parties had considered the full equitable title to be m the railroad company and its grantees.

RAMSEY v. TACOMA LAND CO.
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

THis was a suit commenced in the Superior Court of Pierce
County, Washington, by the plaintiff in error, praying that she
be decreed to be the owner of the S.W I of the N.W I of
section 3, township 20 north, range 2 east, in said county,
and that the defendants be adjudged to hold the legal title
in trust for her. A decree of the trial court in her favor was
reversed by the Supreme Court of the State, and the cause
dismissed. 31 Washington, 351.
The essential facts, which are not disputed, are stated in the
opinion of the Supreme Court. The land was within the
primary limits of the grant to the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company by joint resolution of Congress, of May 31, 1870.
16 Stat. 378. The company filed its map of general route on
August 13, 1870, and its map of definite location on May 14,
1874. The Land Department thereupon withdrew from sale
and entry this with other tracts. On May 19, 1869, one
W C. Kincade made a preemption filing on the land, but had
abandoned the filing and the land prior to the act of 1870.
Subsequently to the filing of the map of definite location the
tract was held by the company and considered by the Land
Department to have passed to the company until the departmental decision of August 28, 1896, in Corlis v RailroadCompany, 23 L. D. 265 (on review 26 L. D. 652), which held that
lands situated as this were excepted from the grant. In 1874
the railroad company, for value and in good faith, sold and
conveyed the land to the Tacoma Land Company, a corporation created under the laws of Pennsylvania. Thereafter that
company, for value and in good faith, sold to the other defendants, who also acted in good faith. The several deeds
representing these transactions were placed on record in the
county where the tract is situated. On October 13, 1896, the
Commissioner of the General Land Office canceled the railroad company's list of the tract in question, on the basis of the
decision in Corlis v RailroadCompany. On February 24, 1897,
the plaintiff filed in the local land office her application to
enter the land as a homestead, which filing was accepted by

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

the local officers, and in May of that year she went upon the
land, and has there since remained, making improvements to
the value of $1,200. In August, 1897, the land company filed
its application to purchase the tract, under section 5 of the act
of Congress of March 3, 1887 24 Stat. 556. A contest between the plaintiff and the land company was had in the Department, which resulted in a decision in its favor, and to it a
patent was issued.
Mr John F Shafroth, Mr JohnC Stallcup and Mr J W. A.
Nichols for plaintiff in error.
Mr Stanton Warburton and Mr E. R. York for defendants
in error.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
Plaintiff in error presents but two questions which have not
already been determined by this court. One is whether a
state corporation is entitled to the benefit of section 5 of the
act of 1887, which names as beneficiaries "citizens of the
United States," or "persons who have declared their intentions to become such citizens." This can scarcely be considered a debatable question, for in United States v Northwestern Express Company, 164 U S. 686, similar language in
the Indian Depredations Statute was adjudged broad enough
to include a state corporation. No review of the authorities
there considered and no restatement of the argument is necessary Obviously, in a remedial statute like this, the term
"citizens" is to be considered as including state corporations,
unless there be something beyond the mere use of the word
to indicate an intent on the part of Congress to exclude them.
The other question arises on the contention of the plaintiff,
that the statute of 1887 is not curative but simply permissive;
that it does not attempt to confirm the title of the purchaser

RAMSEY v. TACOMA LAND CO.
196 U. S.

Opinon of the Court.

from the railroad company, but simply gives him the privilege
of purchasing from the Government at the ordinary price. It
is urged that it cannot be\ presumed that Congress intended
that the land should be heldindefinitely waiting for the election
of the purchaser, and that the privilege must be exercised at
once or considered as abandoned. It is said that the land
company did not attempt to exercise the prnilege immediately
after the passage of the act, but waited for more than ten
years. Obviously the statute is not a curative one, confirms
no title, but simply grants a privilege. We shall assume that
that privilege is not one continuing indefinitely, that the land
is not held free from entry until the purchaser from the railroad company has formally refused to purchase, and that he
must act within a reasonable time. Nevertheless, we are of
opinion that the action of the Land Department must be
sustained. It is true that the land company did not proceed
immediately after the passage of the act of 1887, but until
1896 both the railroad company and the Land Department
assumed that the land was already the property of the land
company by its purchase from the railroad company While
all parties considered the full equitable title as vested in the
land company, there was no duty cast upon it-of securing a
further title by purchase from the Government. Only after
the decision in the Corlis case in 1896, and on October 13 of
that year, was the land stricken from the railroad company's
list. Within ten months thereafter the land company made
its application. Now, whether it acted with reasonable promptness was a question primarily for the consideration of the Land
Department. That Department had before it the application
of the plaintiff to enter the land under the general land laws,
and that of the land company to purchase it under the act of
1887, and after a full consideration it decided in favor of the
land company, a decision which, in effect, determined that the
company had acted with all necessary promptness and was
entitled to the benefit of the statute. Of course, the privilege
granted by the statute would be of little or no avail if it had

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

196 U. S.

to be exercised on the very day Some time must be allowed
for acquiring knowledge of the situation and determining the
course of action. The plaintiff was as fully charged with
knowledge of this act of 1887 as the land company Upon
the records of the county were the deeds from the railroad to
the land company and from the latter to its grantees. So she
acted with knowledge both of the law and the facts, and is not
in a position now to complain of the action of the Land Dcpartment. We are not justified in setting aside the decision
of the Land Department and holding that it erred in awarding
to the land company the privilege which the statute, without
any express limitation of time, gives to it.
We see no error in the record, and the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Washington is
Affirmed.

MIUNSEY v. CLOUGH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW
HAMPSHIRE.
No. 126. Argued January 13,1905.-Decided January 30, 19W.
Proceedings in interstate rendition are summary; strict common law evidence is not necessary, and the person demanded has no constitutional
right to a hearing. The governor's warrant for removal is sufficient
until the presumption of its legality is overthrown by contrary proof in
a legal proceeding to review his action.
The indictment found m the demanding State will not be presumed to be
void on habeas corpus proceedings m the State in which the demand is
made if it substantially charges an offense for which the person demanded
may be returned for trial.
Where there is no doubt that the person demanded was not m the demanding State when the crime was committed and the demand is made on the
ground of constructive presence only he will be discharged on habeas
corpus, but he will not be discharged when there is merely contradictory
evidence as to his presence or absence, for habeas corpus is not the proper
proceeding to try the question of alibi or any question as to the guilt or
innocence of the accused.

