DOCTOR v. HARRINGTON.
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

DOCTOR v. HARRINGTON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 477. Submitted January 25, 1905.-Decided February 20, 1905.

The presumption of law that stockholders are deemed to be citizens of the
State of the corporation's domicil must give way to the actual fact proved

that complainant is a citizen of a different State from the corporation,
and m such a case the stockholder, if other conditions of jurisdiction exist
can bring his suit against the corporation m the Circuit Court of the
United States.
The ninety-fourth rule m equity contemplates and provides for a suit
brought by a stockholder against the corporation and other parties
on rights which may .be properly asserted by the corporation, and when
such a suit is between citizens of different States and is not collusive, but
the corporation is controlled by interests antagonistic to complainant,
it involves a controversy which is cognizable in a Circuit Court of the
United States, and the defendant corporation is not to be classed on the
same side of the controversy as complainant for the purpose of determining the diversity of citizenship on which the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court must rest.

THE bill in this case was dismissed by the Circuit Court on
the ground that it had no jurisdiction upon the fact alleged,
and certified to this court the question of jurisdiction.

The

following is the question certified.
"Whether or not the complainants' bill of complaint showed
that there was such diversity of citizenship between the parties
complainant and parties defendant in this cause as would be
sufficient under the provisions of the United States Revised
Statutes to confer jurisdiction upon the United States Circuit
Court for the Southern District of New York, of this cause."
The court further certified that it entered a decree dismissing the bill, "holding that it appeared from the said bill of
complaint that there was no such diversity of citizenship between the parties complainant and defendant as would confer

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

jurisdiction upon the United States Circuit Court for the
Southern District of New York in the cause within the meaning
of the United States Revised Statutes, and that in arranging
the parties to this cause relatively to the controversy the
Sol Sayles Company must be grouped on the side of the complainants, with the result that citizens of the same State would
thus be parties on both sides of the litigation, and thus deprive this court of jurisdiction."
The bill is very voluminous, and, as it is agreed by appellees
that the statement of appellants substantially states its allegation, we quote from appellants' brief as follows:
"This action was brought by the appellants, as stockholders
of the Sol Sayles Company, a corporation organized under the
laws of the State of New York, for the purpose of vacating and
setting aside a judgment obtained by the appellees Harrmgton
.against the Sol Sayles Company in the Supreme Court of the
State of New York, on October 28, 1902, and the levy and sale
under an execution issued thereunder, and of requiring the
appellees Harrington to deliver to the Sol Sayles Company
certain shares of stock in the Sayles, Zahn Company, and
certain bonds, belonging to the Sol Sayles Company, which
had been sold under such execution, and for other equitable
relief.
"In substance, the complainants allege in their bill of complaint that they are citizens of Morris County, New Jersey;
that the defendants Harrington are citizens of the State of
New York, and that the defendants Sol Sayles Company and
Sayles, Zahn Company are likewise citizens of said State, both
being incorporated under the laws of that State, that the Sol
Sayles Company was organized with a capital stock of $100,000,
divided into 1,000 shares of the par value of $100 per share, of
which the complainants owned 500 shares and the defendants
Harrington 500 shares; that by an arrangement made between
the owners of the stock, the voting power on a majority thereof
was given to the defendant John J Harrmgton, who directed
the management of the affairs of the corporation, dictated its

DOCTOR c HAkRRINGTON.
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

policy, and selected its directors; that on January 26, 1898, the
defendant John J Harrington caused the defendant Sayles,
Zahn Company to be organized, for the purpose of taking over
the business of the defendant Sol Sayles Company and of one
Henry Zahn, and thereupon the property of the Sol Sayles
Company and of Zahn was transferred to the Sayles, Zahn
Company, which likewise was controlled by the defendant John
J Harrington, that the Sol Sayles Company received, in consideration of the transfer of its property, $50,000 of the capital
stock of the Sayles, Zahn Company, and subsequently subscribed for $50,000 additional stock.
"It is further alleged that about February 1, 1899, the defendants Harrington, for the purpose of cheating and defrauding the Sol Sayles Company, and the complainants, of their
interest in the assets of the Sayles, Zahn Company, fraudulently caused the Sol Sayles Company to execute and deliver
to them, without any consideration whatsoever, its promissory
notes, aggregating $23,700, which were utterly fictitious, and
thereafter, and on October 3, 1902, the defendants Harrington,
in furtherance of their fraudulent scheme, caused an action to
be instituted and a judgment to be recovered against the Sol
Sayles Company, for the amount of the said promissory notes
and interest which was alleged to have accrued thereon, the
Sol Sayles Company being m utter ignorance of the nature of
the action and omitting to interpose any defense thereto.
"This scheme resulted in the recovery of a judgment against
the defendant Sol Sayles Company on October 28, 1902, for
$27,357.28, in favor of the defendants Harrington, who thereupon caused an execution to be issued to the sheriff of the
county of New York, against the property and assets of the
Sol Sayles Company, under which execution the said sheriff
levied on the shares of stock in the Sayles, Zahn Company,
and also two bonds of the New Jersey Steamboat Company,
which belonged to the Sol Sayles Company, and sold all of the
right, title and interest of the Sol Sayles Company in the said
certificates of stock and in the said bonds, the said defendants

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

Harrington causing them to be purchased for their own benefit;
said shares of stock being then, as the defendants Harrington
well knew, and have ever since continued to be, worth upwards
of $200,000.
"It further alleged that the complainants caused a demand
to be made upon the defendants Harrington, that they transfer
the said shares of stock and the said bonds to the Sol Sayles
Company, but that they have refused to do so, and have insisted that these shares of stock and bonds are their personal
and individual property, and that neither the Sol Sayles Company nor their complainants have any right, title or interest
in either the said shares of stock or the said bonds, or any part
thereof.
"The twentieth paragraph of the bill of complaint is as.
follows:
" 'The complainants were and each of them was a shareholder of the defendant Sol Sayles Company at the time of the
transactions herein complained of. This suit is not a collusive
one to confer upon a court of the Uited States jurisdiction
of a case of which it would not otherwise have cognizance.
The complainants are unable to secure any corporate action
on the part of the defendant Sol Sayles Company to redress
the wrongs hereinbefore set forth, nor are they able to obtain
any redress at the hands of the stockholders of the said defendant Sol Sayles Company The board of directors of said corporation is under the absolute control and domination of
the defendant John J Harrington, and the said Harrington,
-by reason of having possession of a majority of the capital
stock of the said corporation, likewise controls the action of
the stockholders. Although requested for information with
regard to the facts hereinbefore set forth, he has refused to give
any information with regard thereto, and has declined to
redress the wrongs, of which complaint is herein made, or
to give to the complainants any opportunity to lay before the
board of directors or the stockholders of the defendant Sol
Sayles Company the facts herein set forth.' "

DOCTOR r. HARRINGTON.
196 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

Mr Charles A. Hess for appellants:
There is diversity of citizenship between complainants and
defendants, the former being citizens of New Jersey and the
latter of New York.
Appellees' contention that appellants are estopped or debarred from asserting the actual facts as to diversity of citizenship because stockholders are presumed to be citizens of
the same State as the corporation, may on its face be good
reasoning, but it is based entirely on a legal fiction, which has
been indulged for the purpose of enabling the Federal courts
to exercise jurisdiction over corporations. Legal fictions,
however, are not always carried out to their logical conclusion, and this court has entertained jurisdiction in numerous
instances, where precisely the same state of facts existed as
in the present case. Among the more important precedents
are the following: Dodge v Woolsey, 18 How 331, Hawes v
Oakland, 104 U S. 450; Qusncy v Steel, 120 U S. 241, Pollock
v Farmers'L. & T Co., 157 U S. 429; Cottng v Kansas City
Stock Yard Co., 183 U. S. 79; Utah-Nevada Co. v DeLamar,
133 Fed. Rep. 113.
Even though complainants are seeking to maintain this
action in the right of the Sol Sayles Company, in view of the
trend of authority that fact is not entitled to weight as against
the circumstances that such company is in fact a defendant.
De Neufville v N Y & Northern Ry. Co., 81 Fed. Rep. 10, 13.
Mr Philip J Britt and Mr John J Adams for appellees:
There is no such diversity of citizenship between the complainants and defendants as is required under the Federal
statutes. Complainants sue, not in their own right, but as
stockholders of the Sol Sayles Company, and are, therefore,
to be conclusively presumed, for purposes of jurisdiction, to
be citizens of New York. See also rule 94 in equity
The action is brought in the right of the corporation. Davenport v Dows, 18 Wall. 626, Dewing v Perdicams, 96 1 S.
197, Porter v Sabsn, 149 U S. 473, Dwkerman v Northern

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Appellees.

196 U. S.

Trust Co., 176 U S. 188, Alexander v Donohoe, 143 N. Y. 203,
Flynn v Brooklyn City R. R. Co., 158 N. Y 493. As to different classes of stockholders' actions and where the damages
belong to the corporation and not to individual stockholders
see Niles v N Y C & H. R. R. Co., 176 N. Y 119; Smith v
Hurd, 12 Metc. 371, Allen v Curtis, 26 Connecticut, 456.
As to the status of corporations as citizens and the stockholders being of the same State as that under whose laws the
corporation is organized see Bank of U S. v Deveaux, 5
Cranch, 61, Hope Ins. Co. v Boardman, 5 Cranch, 57, Sullivan
v Fulton Steamboat Co., 6 Wheat. 540; Breithaupt v Bank of
Georgia, 1 Pet. 238, Commercial Bank v Slocomb, 14 Pet. 60;
Louisville &c. R. R. Co. v Letson, 2 How 497, 558, Marshall v B & 0 R. R. Co., 16 Ohio St. 314, 328, Drawbridge
Co. v Shepherd, 20 How 227, 233, Ohio & Miss. R. R. v
Wheeler, 1 Black, 286, 296, Muller v Dows, 94 U S. 444,
Steamship Co. v Tugman, 106 U S. 118, 121, Memphis &
Charleston R. R. v Alabama, 107 U S. 581, Shaw v Quincy
Mining Co., 145 U S. 444, 451, St. Louis & San Francsco
Railway Co. v James, 161 U S. 545, Barrow S. S. Co. v Kane,
170 U S. 100; Southern Ry. Co. v Allison, 190 U S. 326, Great
Southern Fire Proof Hotel Co. v Jones, 177 U S. 456, Taylor
v Illinois Central Ry. Co., 89 Fed. Rep. 119; Thomas v Board
of Trustees, 195 U S. 207, cases cited by appellants and
Hanchett v Blair, 100 Fed. Rep. 817, are not in point, and
as to rule 94 in equity see Dam.s & Farnum Mfg. Co. v Los
Angeles, 189 U S. 220.
The complainants are suing solely for the benefit of the Sol
Sayles Company and that corporation, although in form a
defendant, is, in legal effect, on the same side of the controversy as the complainants. Arapahoe County v Railway Co.,
4 Dillon, 277, Walden v Skinner, 101 U S. 589; and see also
as to where defendants may be on same side as complainants.
Covert v Waldron, 33 Fed. Rep. 311, The Removal Cases, 100
U S. 457, Pacific Railroad v Ketchum, 101 U S. 289; Harter
v Kernochan, 103 U S. 562, Evers v Watson, 156 U. S. 532;

DOCTOR v. HARRINGTON.
196.U. S.

Oplnon of the Court.

Brown v Truesdale, 138 U S. 389, 395, Merchants Cotton Press
Co. v N A. Ins. Co., 151 U S. 385, Wilson v Oswego Agency,
151 U S. 63, Cilly v Patton, 62 Fed. Rep. 498, Board of
Trustees v Blair, 70 Fed. Rep. 414, Consol. Water Co. v Babcock, 76 Fed. Rep. 642, Shipp v Williams, 62 Fed. Rep. 4,
Gardner v Brown, 21 Wall. 36, Pittsburg, C & St. L. Ry. Co.
v B. & 0 R. R. Co., 61 Fed. Rep. 705, Boston Safe Dep. &
Tr Co. v Racine, 97 Fed. Rep. 817, Old Colony Trust Co. v
Altanta Ry. Co., 100 Fed. Rep. 798, 1 Foster's Federal Practice, 64.
The lack of jurisdiction of the court can be raised at any
stage of the litigation, and even though the appellees had not
raised the question, the court could, of its own motion, have
dismissed the cause for want of jurisdiction. Grace v Am.
Cen. Ins. Co., 109 U. S. 278, 283, Mexican Cen. R. R. Co. v
Pinkney, 149 U S. 194, Thomas v Board of Trustees, 195
U. S. 207
Mr George H. Yeaman by leave of the court filed a brief
as amwus curce contending that diversity of citizenship did
not exist and that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of the
case.
MR. JusTIcE McKENNA,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
To sustain the action of the Circuit Court m dismissing the
bill the argument is as follows: (1) By a conclusive presumption of law the stockholders of a corporation are deemed to be
citizens of the State of the corporation's domicile. (2) Granting that the complainants are citizens of New Jersey, yet as
they are suing for the Sol Sayles Company, a New York corporation, that corporation, although in form a defendant, is
in legal effect on the same side of the controversy as the complainants, and since it is a citizen of the same State as the other
defendants, the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction, as the suit

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

does not involve a controversy between citizens of different
States.
1. This is based on the assumption adopted by this court,
that stockholders of a qorporation are citizens of the State
which created the corporation-an assumption physically
possible but hardly true in a single instance, and appellants
here contend that it should be classed with the fictions of the
law and subject to one of their fundamental maxims, and
cannot be carried beyofid the reasons which caused its adoption necessarily requisite. It is, however, more of a presumption than a fiction, but whether we regard it as either it cannot
be pushed to the end contended for by appellees.
The reason of the presumption (we will so denominate it)
was to establish the citizenship of the legal entity for the purpose of jurisdiction in the Federal courts. Before its adoption
difficulties had been encountered on account of the conditions
under which jurisdiction was given to those courts. A corporation is constituted, it is true, of all its stockholders, but it
has a legal existence separate from them-rights and obligations separate from them, and may have obligations to them.
It can sue and be sued. At first this could be done m the
Circuit Court of the United States only when the corporation
was composed of citizens of the State which created it. Bank
of United States v Deveaux, 5 Cranch, 61, Hope Insurance
Company v Boardman, 5 Cranch, 57 But .the limitation
came to be seen as almost a denial of jurisdiction to or against
corporations m the Federal courts, and m Louuville &c. Railroad Company v Letson, 2 How 497, prior cases were reviewed, and this doctrine laid down.
"That a corporation created by and doing business m a
particular State, is to be deemed to all intents and purposes
capable
as a person, although an artificial person,
a
natural
as
much
as
that
State,
a
citizen
of
of being treated as
person." And "when the corporation exercises its powers m
the State which chartered it, that is its residence, and such an
averment is sufficient to give the Circuit Courts jurisdiction."

DOCTOR v. HARRINGTON.
196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

The presumption that the citizenship of the corporators
should be that of the domicil of the corporation was not then
formulated. That came afterwards, and overcame the difficulty and objection that the legal creation, the corporation,
could not be a citizen within the meaning of the Constitution.
Marshal v B. & 0 Railroad Company, 16 How 314. This,
then, was its purpose, and to stretch beyond this is to stretch
it to wrong. It is one thing to give to a corporation a status,
and another thing to take from a citizen the right given him
by the Constitution of the United States. Disregarding the
purpose of the presumption, it is easy to represent it, as counsel does, as illogical if not extended to every stockholder; but
as easy it would be to show its falseness if so applied. But
such charges and countercharges are aside from the question.
To the fact and place of incorporation the law attaches its
presumption for a special purpose. Perhaps, as intimated in
St. Lours & San Francisco Ry. v James, 161 U. S. 545, 563,
this "went to the very verge of judicial power." Against the
further step urged by appellees we encounter the Constitution
of the United States.
2. The ninety-fourth rule in equity contemplates that there
may be, and provides for, a suit brought by a stockholder in a
corporation founded on rights which may properly be asserted
by the corporation. And the decisions of this court establish
that such a suit, when between citizens of different States,
involves a controversy cognizable in a Circuit Court of the
United States. The ultimate interest of the corporation made
defendant may be the same as that of the stockholder made
plaintiff, but the corporation may be under a control antagonistic to him, and made to act in a way detrimental to
his rights. In other words, his interests, and the interests of
the corporation, may be made, subservient to some illegal
purpose. If a controversy hence arise, and the other conditions of jurisdiction exist, it can be litigated in a Federal
court.
In Detroit v. Dean,, 106 U S. 537, Dean, who was a citizen

OCTOBER TERM, 1901
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

of New York and a stockholder in the Mutual Gas Light Company, a Michigan corporation, in order to protect its right and
property against the threatened action of a third party brought
suit against the latter and the corporation in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Michigan.
This court ordered the bill dismissed, not because Dean and
the corporation had identical interests, but because the refusal
of the directors of the corporation to sue was collusive. The
right of a stockholder to sue a corporation for the protection
of his rights was recognized, the condition only being the
refusal of the directors to act, which refusal, it is said, must be
real, not feigned. Hawes v Oakland, 104 U S. 450, was cited,
where a like right was decided to exist. See also Dodge v
Woolsey, 18 How 331, Davenpor[ v Dows, 18 Wall. 626,
Memphis v Dean, 8 Wall. 64, Greenwood v Freight Company,
105 U S. 13, Quncy v Steel, 120 U S. 241. It was said in
Dodge v Woolsey, that the refusal of the directors to sue caused
them and Woolsey, who was a stockholder in a corporation of
which they were directors, "to occupy antagonistic grounds
in respect to the controversy, which their refusal to sue forced
him to take in defense of his rights." Dodge v Woolsey was
modified by Hawes v Oakland, as to what circumstances would
justify a suit by a stockholder if the directors refuse to sue.
See also Qusncy v Steel, supra.
The case at bar is brought within the doctrine of those cases
by the allegations of the bill. The defendant corporations are
alleged to be under the control of John J and Dennis A.
Harrmgton, and that complainants are unable to secure any
corporate action on the part of the defendant, the Sol Sayles
Company, to redress the wrongs complained of. It is also
alleged that the Harrmgtons control the action of the stockholders, and have declined to redress the wrongs complained
of or give complainants any opportunity to lay before the
board of directors or the stockholders of the Sol Sayles Company the facts alleged. It is also alleged the suit is not collusive. It is manifest that if the matter alleged be true, com-

THE GERMANIC.
196 U. S.

Syllabus.

plamants will suffer irremediable loss if not permitted to sue,

and as they had a cause of action they rightly brought it in
the Circuit Court of the United States.
Decree reversed.

THE GERMANIC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No.128. Argued January 13, 16,1905-Decided February 20,1905.

.

foreign vessel from Liverpool arrived at its destination, New York, and
made fast to the wharf. Owing to unusual gales and weather she was
heavily weighted with snow and ice and made top heavy While the

cargo was being unloaded she suddenly rolled over and sank-, damaging
the cargo remaining in her, some of which had been shipped from points
east of Liverpool on bills of lading to Liverpool, thence to be forwarded
to New York, and containing certain exemptions of the carrier from
liability. The owners and insurers of cargo libelled the vessel; it was
found by the District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals that the
damage was due to negligence in unloading cargo and ruled that the
negligence fell within section one of the Harter Act and not within section three of the same as negligence in the navigation or management
of the vessel. Held, that:
This court will not go behind the findings of the two courts as to negligence and that the rule was correct.
When a case may fall under section one and section three of the Harter
Act the question which section is to govern must be determined by the
primary nature and object of the acts which cause the loss.
Semble. The standard of conduct is external and not merely co-extensive
with the judgment of the individual.
£rhe Harter Act will be applied to foreign vessels in suits brought in the
United States, and where claimants set up and rely upon the act they
must take the burden with the benefits and cannot claim a greater limitation of liability under provisions of bills of lading.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

