OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

mony that for the cheques certified each day there was deposited in advance an ample amount of cash - should have been
submitted to the jury on the question of "wilful" wrongdoing.
As "wilful" wrong is of the essence of the accusation, testimony bearing directly on the question of wilfulness is of vital
importance, and error in rejecting it cannot be regarded otherwise than as material and manifestly prejudicial.
The remaining question is in reference to the instruction as
to the burden of proof. We think that, so far as respects
the particular matter mentioned in the instruction quoted, the
rule remains as in other phases of a criminal trial; that the
burden of proof is on the government, and the defendant is
entitled to the benefit of a reasonable doubt. It may be that
certain presumptions follow from the entries in the books, and
accompanying testimony introduced by the government. It
may also be that those presumptions are conclusive in the
absence of contradictory or explanatory testimony, and, in
that aspect of the case, that the defendant must introduce
something to weaken the otherwise conclusive force of such
presumptions; but whenever testimony thus contradicting or
explaining is introduced, it becomes a part of the burden resting upon the government to make the case so clear that there
is no reasonable doubt as to the inferences and presumptions
claimed to flow from the books or other evidence.
Judgment reversed, and new trial ordered.

ALSOP v. RIKER.
RIKER v. ALSOP.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Nos. 59, 63. Argued November 8, 1894. -Decided

December 10, 1894.

A court of equity, in the exercise of its inherent power to do justice between parties, will, when justice demands it, refuse relief, even if the

ALSOP v. RIKER.
Opinion of the Court.
time elapsed without suit is less than that prescribed by the statute of
limitations.
The length of time during which a party neglects the assertion of his rights
which must pass in order to show lacdes in equity, varies with the peculiar circumstances of each case, and is not subject to an arbitrary r
Hal~tead v. Grinnan, 152 U. S. 412, affirmed and applied to this point.
The facts in this case, detailed in the opinion, disclose such laches on the
part of Riker in asserting the rights. which he here claims, that a court
of equity should refuse to interpose, without inquiry whether the suit
can or cannot be excluded from the operation of the statute of limitations of the State of New York.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.2r.Andrew J. Riker in person for himself.
-Mr. George W. Wingate for Alsop and for Campbell's
executors.
Mr. -John M21.Bowers, for Whitewright, submitted on his
brief.
MR. JUSTICE RARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

William I. Aspinwall, Joseph W. Alsop, Edwin Bartlett,
David Leavitt, Edward Learned, Samuel W. Comstock, and
William A. Booth, holders of construction bonds of the Ohio
and Mississippi Railroad Company, Eastern Division, issued to
the stockholders and creditors of that corporation on the 15th
day of December, 1858, a circular inviting them to unite in
adopting an agreement such as was transmitted with the circular. In that circular they expressed the opinion that by
the adoption of the proposed agreement the company would
be enabled to place its road and property in a condition to
command the entire business to which from its location it
would be fairly entitled; "to meet promptly all future demands upon it for interest ou its remaining indebtedness;
from its net earnings to pay fair dividends upon its stock
within a reasonable time; and that all causes for litigatioin
will be removed and the interests of all parties be thereby
placed in a safe and reliable position."
VOL. CLv-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

With the circular was submitted a statement showing that
the estimated liabilities of the company, with interest to July
1, 1859, aggregated $18,393,768, of which $2,050,000 were
first-mortgage bonds, $258,000 were second-mortgage bonds,
$ ,242,000 were construction or third-mortgage bonds, part ot
which were to be used in redeeming and retiring the secondmortgage bonds, and $3,320,000 were income bonds, including
scrip certificates.
The appellant, Andrew J. Riker, was at that time the holder
and owner of nine of the company's construction bonds.
The agreement recited that the subscribers were "desirous
that concessions shall be made by all parties in interest which
shall discharge a portion of the indebtedness of said company
and thereby assure the prompt payment of all sums which
shall become due on the residue thereof, and without preju(lice to the proper improvement and maintenance of the road
and its appurtenances."
By the first paragraph of the proposed agreement it was
provided that subscribers who were owners or legal representatives of legal demands against the company would discharge
the same on payment therefor by the company, as follows:
For the three coupons that were then, or that should become
due, on its first-mortgage bonds, next prior to and including
those due July 1, 1859, one-half thereof in money, and onehalf thereof in shares of the capital stock of the company at
par; for the coupons that were then, or that should become
due, on second-mortgage bonds, up to and including those due
April 1, 1859, one-half thereof in money, and one-half in
shares at par; for the principal of second-mortgage bonds, onethird in shares at par, and the remaining two-thirds in construction bonds at par; for the coupons that wero then due
or that might become due, on its income bonds, up to and including those due May 1, 1859, together with the principal
of such income bonds, in shares at par; for the scrip (certificates convertible into income bonds) issued by the company,
in shares at par; for other evidences of indebtedness against
the company, as the same were admitted or allowed by its
directors, in shares at par - the interest on the above demands,

ALSOP v. RIKER.
Opinion of the Court.

(excepting coupons,) so to be paid, to be made up to the first
day of July, 1859, and to be paid in the same manner as the
demands to which it related.
By the second paragraph it was provided that subscribers
being owners or legal representatives of shares of the capital
stock of the company, would transfer all their shares to its
directors or to such person or persons as the directors should
designate and appoint- to be reissued or retransferred to
make the above payments, and to return to the subscribers
or their legal representatives who transferred their shares
such portion as they would be entitled to under the agreeInent, the residue, if any, to belong to the company.
The :third paragraph provided that the covenants contained
in the above paragraphs were upon the following conditions:
1st. That the owners or legal representatives of all demands
or stock paid or transferred should subscribe to and comply
with the agreement, or that equivalent concessions be made
so that the entire payments contemplated should be made the company to purchase with any balance of shares remaining after the payments above named, or with other means,
fifty thousand dollars of the first-mortgage .or construction
bonds, and to cancel all the bonds and coupons so paid or
purchased, except those necessary for exchange for secondmortgage bonds as aforesaid - so that on the first day of July,
1859, the indebtedness should not exceed $5,000,000, of which
not more than $2,050,000 should be represented by first-mortgage bonds, and the residue by construction bonds, with
interest running from March 1, 1859. 2d. That the owners
-of income bonds should have loaned to the company the
money required to- make the cash part of the above payments,
such loan with interest to be repaid at the earliest practicable time, consistent with the proper maintenance of the road.
3d.. That the city of Cincinnati should grant such modifications and releases of its demands, contracts, and claims against
the company as its directors and the trustees named in the
agreement should deem satisfactory. 4th. That the capital
stock of the company should not exceed $7,500,000, unless
increased by a further reduction of its bonded debt.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

It was further provided that the subscribers should transfer
and deliver to the persons named as trustees, their survivors
and successors in trust, their several demands, and all evidences thereof, that were contemplated to be discharged or
paid for in shares of stock, and all their shares of said capital
stock, (with power to transfer,) to be managed by such trustees
for the benefit of the subscribers and their legal representatives in the proportions and upon the terms and conditions
specified in the agreement, and should comply with any requirements which the trustees, pursuant to authority, should
make.
The persons who sent out the above circular, their survivors
and successors, were named as trustees under the agreement,
a majority of them to have authority to do such acts and
things on behalf of the subscribers as they deemed necessary
or expedient to carry out the purposes of the agreement
which did not impose liability upon a subscriber to pay 'any
money except at hi§ option.
The other paragraphs of the agreement prescribed in detail
the mode in which the proposed scheme should be executed, and the authority which the designated trustees might
exercise.
Among other things, it was provided in the proposed agreement that the trustees should issue and deliver certificates
equal to the amount of demands admitted or allowed, properly
equalizing any differences occasioned by priorities of time in
such transfers or deliveries; that the trustees, in their discretion, might purchase for the benefit of the trust, bonds of the
company not contemplated to be delivered to them, also other
evidences of indebtedness and shares of stock deemed essential
or beneficial to the trust and to parties interested therein, and
issue certificates in payment therefor; that said certificates
should be the only evidence of the interest of subscribers in
the property of the trust, which interest was to be such proportion thereof as the amount of any certificate or certificates
bore to the amount of all the certificates issued by the
trustees; and that when the parties necessary to carry out
the provisions of the first three paragraphs of the agree-

ALSOP v. RIKER.
Opinion of the Court.

ment had subscribed and complied with the same, and the
trustees were furnished with evidences of the demands to be
paid only in part, the trustees should cancel and surrender to
the company all evidences of its indebtedness then belonging
to the trust.
In view of the contingency of a foreclosure of some of the
mortgages upon the road and property, it was provided that
the trustees might make such arrangements with the trustees
named therein; or with the owners of the bonds secured
thereby, as, in their opinion, would enable them to protect the
interests of the trust without making calls upon subscribers;
but failing in this, and if they deemed the trust property insufficient or unavailable for the purchase of the road and property at any sale thereof, then they might, on sixty days' notice,
make calls on owners of certificates for their just proportion
of the means necessary for the purpose, provided that any
party so called on could, at his option, omit or refuse to pay
any portion of any or of all such calls in the proportion of
money or bonds called, in which case the trustees could procure the deficiency from other persons, and issue and deliver
certificates for such amounts as they might agree upon.
It was further provided, that in the event of the purchase
of the road and property by the trustees and the procurement
of title and possession, the trustees should transfer the same to
the owners-or legal representatives of the certificates issued in
pursuance of the prop6sed agreement, according to and on the
surrender of their several certificates, and distribute to them
severally any other trust property, or the proceeds therefrom,
remaining in their hands, such'transfer and distribution to be
made to each certificate holder in the proportion that the
amounts of his certificates shall bear to the whole amount of
the certificates outstanding; and, that if any subscriber to the
agreement should, directly or indirectly, purchase the whole
or any part of the road or property, then every other subscriber, or his legal representative, could at any time thereafter, until sixty days shall have elapsed from service of notice
upon him, pay or legally tender to such purchasing subscriber
or subscribers such proportion of the purchase money paid by

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

him or them as was equal to the amounts of the certificates
issued to him or them, and to such other subscribers respectively under the agreement, and he should then be entitled to
participate in the ratio the money he paid or tendered should
bear to the purchase money.
The appellant Riker signed the agreement for three of tho
nine construction bonds held by him and kept the remaining
six in his possession.
On the 18th of March, 1859, formal notice was given to the
stockholders of the company by the trustees named that only
a part of those whose signatures were essential in order to
carry out the main purpose of the agreement had signed it,
and that the trustees under the authority given them had
adopted a resolution that the right to subscribe would cease
from and after May 1, 1859, except upon the unanimous consent of the trustees, and that on that day the trustees would
determine whether the agreement had been subscribed by a
sufficient number for the consummation.of the objects contemplated by it.
On the 13th day of December, 1860, and at the request of
the holders of certificates, the trustees made a statement that
was embodied in a circular addressed to creditors and stockholders, showing that the claims surrendered to the trustees
under the agreement aggregated at that time $10,549,570.84,
for which $182,995.66 was paid in cash and $10,366,575.18 in
trust certificates.
In the same statement the trustees said: "The suit instituted by the second-mortgage bondholders is being urged to a
decision in the courts of Ohio and Indiana, and a decree of
sale will no doubt be obtained in a few weeks at the latest;
when it will become necessary for the trustees to exercise the
authority.given in the agreement of 15th December, 1858, to
protect the property of the trust."
By a circular issued by the trustees to creditors and stockholders on the 11th day of July, 1861, the latter were informed
that the foreclosure suit instituted by the second-mortgage
bondholders had resulted in a decree of sale, and that by the
terms of such decree the road could not be sold for less than

AIJSOP v. RIKER.
Opinion of the Court.

$1,000,000 subject to the first mortgage of $2,050,000. Creditors and stockholders were also informed by the same circular
that the trustees required from them $623,165 in addition to
their then available means to enable them to protect the trust
by a purchase of the property. The sale under the decree
obtained by the holders of second-mortgage bonds was advertised for October 21, 1861. But as no bid was offered equal
to the requirements of the decree, the property was not then
sold.
Subsequently, certain amendments of the trust agreement
were made at meetings of the subscribers, which amendments,
the trustees claim, were made for the purpose of enabling
them to protect the trust by purchasing second-mortgage
bonds and holding them for the benefit of the trust. These
purchases were made prior to April 17, 1863.
During the year 1866 the trustees and the holders of certificates issued under the trust agreement determined to wind up
the trust. To that end the trustees, holding second-mortgage
bonds for the benefit of the trust, caused the property specified in the decree of foreclosure to be duly re-advertised for
sale. -The sale was adjourned from time to time, but it finally
took place on the 9th of January, 1867, the trustees becoming
the purchasers at $1,000,000. A plan of reorganization was
adopted by the certificate holders, and the trust agreement
was so amended that it could be carried into effect. That
plan contemplated the formation of a new corporation to receive from the trustees the property purchased by them, and
all other property and rights belonging to the trust. The
new corporation was formed by 'the name of the Ohio. and
Mississippi Railway Company, and on the 18th day of December, 1867, it took, by regular transfer from the trustees, the
trust property held by the latter, including all the property,
real and personal, and all the franchises of the old corporation.
The object of the present suit is to hold those who were
trustees under the agreement of 1858, and who participated
in the proceedings under which the Ohio and.Mississippi Railway Company acquired the property in question, personally
liable to Riker for the amount due on the six construction

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

bonds he withheld from the trustees. The theory of the suit
is that the agreement of 1858 bad in view the protection of
all the bonds held by subscribers, those withheld from as well
as those delivered to the trustees under that agreement; and,
consequently, that the purchase of the property by the~trustees
for the protection simply of the particular debts covered by
the trust agreement was contrary to its object and provisions,
.and was such a breach of duty upon their part as made them
liable to him for the amount due on- six construction bonds.
The defence, stated generally, was that the trustees held
relations of trust to those who subscribed the agreement of
1858 only in respect to the debts for which the subscribers
signed; that the plaintiff refused to avail himself of the
opportunity to become a party to that agreement in respectto the bonds held by him except the three construction bonds
for which he signed; that by the sale under the above decree
of foreclosure all the debts of the Ohio and Mississippi Railroad Company that were subordinate in right to the holders
of second-mortgage bonds were cut off; and that those who
acted from time to time as trustees under the agreement of
1858 had no duty to perform except to represent the subscribers thereto in respect to the parts of claims for which
they signed. The defendants also relied upon the statute of
limitations barring all claims not accruing within six and ten
years, respectively, before the commencement of action.
The court below sustained the plaintiff's demand, and rendered a personal decree for the amount due on his six construction bonds not embraced in the agreement of 1858. The
decree was for the aggregate sum of $18,305. Both plaintiff
and defendants appealed, the former claiming that a larger
amount should have been awarded to him.
The grounds upon which the Circuit Court held the plaintiff to be entitled to a decree for the value of his six unsurrendered construction bonds are fully stated in an opinion
rendered by the learned Circuit Judge who tried the case.
27 Fed. Rep. 251, 256, 257. "The concessions to be made by
holders of construction bonds," the court said, "was the surrender by them of one-third of the principal of their bonds,

ALSOP v. RIKER.
Opinion of the Court.

and the acceptance in lieu thereof of an interest in the trust
fund which was to come into the hands of the trustees under
the plan of the agreement. Beyond the one-third which they
were to surrender they were to have no interest in the trust
fund, and their rights were to remain the same as though no
agreement had been subscribed; and the only change effected
in their previous relations to the company was that thenceforth they were embarked with the trustees in the common
undertaking which the trustees obligated themselves to carry
out. By the terms of the agreement the trustees promised to
distribute the trust fund which was to be created among the
certificate holders according to their respective interests. If
they had succeeded in exchanging the claims which had been
surrendered to them by creditors for stock of the company,
the trust fund which they would have distributed would have
been the stock of the company, and the certificate holders
would have become stockholders whose rights would have
been subordinate to the existing mortgages upon the property.
The holders of construction bonds who had surrendered a
third of their holdings under the agreement would have occupied the position of stockholders for the amount surrendered,
but their rights as bondholders for the unsurrendered twothirds of their bonds would have remained the same as
before." Again: "There is not a word in the agreement to
indicate that they could purchase the road discharged of the
equitable lien of those who had surrendered a portion of their
bonds in order that the remaining part should be more safely
secured. . . . The trustees did not purchase upon the foreclosure of the second mortgage'because a sale of the property
was imminent. They did so because a sale, and a purchase
by them under such a sale, would afford a convenient method
of closing out their trust, and enable them to convey a satisfactory title to the new corporation. Of course they occupy no
better position toward the complainant than they would if they
had purchased pursuant to the conditions of the trust. They
now insist, as they have insisted all along, that they owe no duty
to the complainant, and that no one had any right to share in the
proceeds of the trust fund arising under the agreement except

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

certificate holders, or in the distribution of the property which
they acquired by purchase. It does not follow because
the complainant had no interest in the trust fund, and was
not entitled to share in its distribution after he had parted
with his certificate, that the trustees owed him no duty respecting the unsurrendered two-thirds of his bonds. They
undertook to become his trustee for the purpose of protecting,
as well as could practically be done, his interest as a secured
bondholder of the company, to the extent of two-thirds of
his original security, in consideration of his becoming a subscriber to the agreement."
On the other hand, the contention of the trustees, from the
outset, was that the securities received by them and those
they purchased were to be held for the exclusive benefit of
certificate holders, and that they never became trustees for
the plaintiff in respect of the six construction bonds not surrendered by him, and for which no certificate was issued.
Whether the view taken by the Circuit Court of the relations between the trustees and the complainant be-correct or
not, we do not deem it necessary to determine; for, in our
judgment, the case must be disposed of without considering
that question, namely, upon the ground that the plaintiff was
not entitled to the interposition of equity in his behalf. His
bill should have been dismissed without prejudice to an action
at law. It is impossible to doubt that he was fully informed
of every step taken by the trustees from time to time in the
discharge of what they conceived to be their duty to certificate holders. He was not ignorant of the fact that the original agreement of 1858 was amended in important particulars
in 1862 and 1863, and that in virtue of the additional powers
conferred by those amendments, the trustees, by purchases
made prior to April 15, 1863, acquired the second-mortgage
bonds and thereby obtained control of the foreclosure suit.
In November, 1866, he was present at a meeting of certificate holders and mentioned to Campbell, who became a
trustee in 1864, the fact that he held six construction bonds.
Campbell replied that he knew nothing about the early workings of the trust, and would inquire into the matter. In

ALSOP v. RIKER.
Opinion of the Court.

January, 1867, the road and its appurtenances were sold, as
he well knew, and were purchased by the trustees. And in
December, 1867, he presented his six construction bonds to
Campbell, the chairman of the trustees, and told him that
he, Riker, wanted done for those bonds what was done for
them in the agreement - meaning the agreement of December 15, 1858. Campbell, doubtless supposing that TRiker
meant to assert some interest in the property, replied to him
that the bonds " were not worth a cent, as they were shut
out by the sale" under the foreclosure decree. lke was thus
distinctly informed as early as December, 1867, thai his claim
upon the property acquired by the trustees for the certificate
holders was disputed. But he took no steps to'vindicate his
rights, if any he then had. He was quiescent until December
10, 1870, which was nearly four years after the purchase by
the trustees and nearly three years after they had conveyed it
to a new corporation, the Ohio and Mississippi Railway Company. On that day he served a formal written notice upon
Campbell, as chairman of the trustees, that he held and owned
the six construction bonds, (describing them,) and demanded
that Campbell pay or secure to him the aggregate of principal and interest then due on them -$ 10,S30. Then ensued another period of inaction; for the present suit was not
brought until August 7, 1876, more than thirteen years after
the trustees purchased the second-mortgage bonds for the
benefit of the trust, more than nine years after the purchase
of the road, at the foreclosure sale, for the benefit of certificate holders, and nearly nine years after the interview
between the plaintiff and Campbell, in which the lattei: told
him that his bonds had been cut off by that sale and were
not worth anything.
The record discloses no element of fraud or concealment
upon the part of the trustees or of any of them. What they
did was done openly and was known or might have been
known by the exercise of the slightest diligence upon the
part of every one interested in the property of the old corporation. The plaintiff unquestionably knew, or could easily
have ascertained, before the trustees bought the property at

OCTOBER TERIAf, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

the foreclosure sale -at
any rate, before they transferred it
to the new corporation - that their purchase would be, and
was, exclusively for the benefit of certificate holders interested in the trust. Although his bonds had not then matured, he could have taken steps to prevent any transfer of
the property that would impair his equitable rights in it or
instituted proper judicial proceedings, of which all would be
required to take notice, to have his interest in the property
adjudicated. He allowed the trust to be wound up, and postponed any appeal to a court of equity based upon an alleged
breach of trust by the trustees, until six out of the seven original trustees had died. His laches cannot be excused upon the
ground that the trust assumed by the trustees was express or
direct, for it is clearly established that the trustees, as early
as December, 1867, denied and repudiated, as the plaintiff
knew, the existence of any trust in relation to such of the
construction bonds as the plaintiff did not surrender to them.

Sy)eidel v. Henrici, 120 U. S. 377; Riddle v. Whitehill, 135
U. S. 621; Phillipi v. Phillipe, 115 U. S. 151. We, therefore, incline to think that this suit cannot be excluded from
the operation of tho statute of limitations of New York prescribing a limitation of six years for an action "upon a contract, obligation, or liability, express or implied." N. Y. Civ.
Code Pro. in force prior to September 1, 1877; Voorhees'
Code, § 91, 4th ed. 86; 5th ed. 69, 70; .Miller v. Wood, 116
N. Y. 351; Carr v. Thompyson, 87 N. Y. 160; .Kirby v. Lake
Shore &c.Railroad,120 U. S. 130, 139.
But, without plating our decision upon that ground and
independently of the statute of limitations, the case is one in
which a court of equity should refuse to interpose because of
laches upon the part of appellant in asserting the rights he
now claims. Looking at all the circumstances, particularly
the nature of the property, good faith demanded that if he
intended to question the right of the trustees to acquire, hold,
and transfer it for the exclusive benefit of certificate holders,
he should have done so by formal proceedings, commenced
within a reasonable time after he became cognizant of all the
facts. The case is one peculiarly for the application of the

PLUMLEY v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Syllabus.

rule that equity in the exercise of its inherent power to do
justice between parties, will, when justice demands it, i~fuse
relief, even if the time elapsed without suit is less thaj that
prescribed by the -statute of limitations. Hlarwood v. Railroad Co., 17 Wall. 78; Twin Lick Oil Go. v. Mar'ury, 91
U. S. 587, 592; Hayward v. Natlonal Bank, 96 U. S. 611,
616; Richards v. Mackall, 124 U. S. 183, 187; Hammond v.
Hopkin.s, 143 U. S. 22-, 250. As observed in Halstead v.
G nnazn, 152 U. S. 412, 416, "the length of time during
which the party neglects the assertion of his rights, which
must pass in order to show laches, varies with the peculiar
circumstances of each case, and is not, like the matter of
limitations, subject to an arbitrary rule. It is an equitable
defence, controlled by equitable considerations, and the lapse
of time must be so great, and the relations of the defendant
to the rights such, that it would be inequitable to permit the
plaintiff to now assert them."
The decree is reversed at the costs of the complainant, and
the cause reminded with directions to dismiss the bill without
prejudice to an action at law.
Reversed.

PLUMLEY v. MASSACHUSETTS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDIcrAL COURT OF THE COMfONWEALTH
OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 406.

Argued April 5, 6, 1894.-

Decided December 10, 1894.

The act of August 2, 1886, c. 840, 24 Stat. 209, does -not give authority to
those who pay the taxes prescribed by it, to engage in the manufacture
or sale of oleomargarine in any State which lawfully forbids such manufacture or sale, or to disregard any regulations which a State may lawfully prescribe in reference to that article; and that act was not intended
to be, and is not, a regulation of commerce among the States.
The statute of Massachusetts of March 10, 1891, c. 58, " to prevent deception in the manufacture and sale of imitation butter," in its application
to the sales of oleomargarine artificially colored so as to cause it to look
like yellow butter and brought into Massachusetts, is not in conflict with

