OCTOBER TERMK, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

DICK v. FORAKER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
1o. 89. Submitted November 15, 1894. -Decided

December 17, 1894.

The Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Arkansas
has jurisdiction of a suit in equity, brought by a citizen of Ohio against
a citizen of Illinois, to remove a cloud from the title to real estate situated in that district.
Without the statutory notice required by the Arkansas statute of March
12, 1881, No. 39, in proceedings for the fixing of tax liens for unpaid taxes
upon lands in the State, and the sale of the lands for the non-payment
thereof, the court can take no jurisdiction, and all proceedings therein
are void; and the fact that the State appeared in such a suit where that
notice had not been given, did not give the court jurisdiction, or render
the sale valid.

THE appellee, a citizen of the State of Ohio, brought his
complaint in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Arkansas against the appellant, a citizen
of the State of Illinois. The bill sought to remove a cloud
from a title held by complainant, and charged, in substance,
that under an act of the legislature of Arkansas, approved
March 12, 1S81, and an act amendatory thereof, approved
March 22, 1881, a decree was rendered in the Ashley County
circuit court, directing the sale of certain lands, for the purpose of realizing taxes due upon them. That under this decree
a sale was made on September 15, 1884, by a commissioner of
the court; that at said sale the complainant became a purchaser
of the property, a description of which was given in the bill.
That the proceedings, as well as the sale, were in accordance
with the statute. That the lands thus purchased-were not
redeemed as prescribed by law, and accordingly the court
ordered the comniissioner to execute a deed therefor, which
the commissioner did on May 15, 1887, and the deed was
recorded in the proper office. That after this purchase the
defendant (appellant here) purchased through the commis-

DICK v. FORAKER.
Statement of the Case.

sioner of lands of the State of Arkansas the said lands from
the State, as forfeited for the non-payment of taxes; that the
commissioner wrongfully and without authority of law, and
in disregard of the rights of complainant, executed deeds for
the lands to the defendant, which deeds were recorded, and,
taken all together, purport to convey all of the land purchased
by the complainant under the previous sale to him; that the
deeds thus executed to the defendant, while they convey no
title, constitute a cloud upon the complainant's title, and their
appearance upon the record impairs the value of his property.
The bill, moreover, averred that the land was vacant and in
the actual possession of neither complainant nor defendant.
The prayer of the bill was that the deeds made to the defendant be cancelled, and that the complainant's title to said land
be quieted as against the defendant and all claimants under
him. The defendant demurred to the jurisdiction of the
court, and upon the overruling of his demurrer answered,
averring the validity of the sale made him by the commissioner of lands, and claiming that the sales to the complainant
under the proceedings in the Ashley County court were abso:
lutely void, because there was no law authorizing them, because
the court had no jurisdiction of the subject-matter, and because
of fatal irregularities in the proceedings themselves. The
court below decreed in favor of the complainant. From this
decree the cause was brought here on appeal.
The defendant's title is derived from a sale made by the
commissioner of lands of the State of Arkansas, treating the
lands as forfeited to the State, this sale having been made subsequent to the proceedings upon which the complainant relied
as his muniment of title.
The statutory provisions authorizing the proceedings upon
which complainant's- title rests are found in the Laws of Arkansas of 1881, page 89, Act of March 12, 1881, No. 39, and
read as follows:
"SC. 1. That hereafter any citizen of this State, who shall
give security for cost, may file a complaint in equity in the
name of the State in the court having equity jurisdiction in
the county in which the lands lie, setting forth that taxes are

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

due on lands to be therein described, or that for any reason
lands lying in the county have not been assessed for any one
or more years, and praying that a lien may be fixed on such
lands, by a decree of the court, for such unpaid taxes, and
that the lands may be sold for the non-payment thereof. The
county court of any county may direct such complaint to be
filed in the name of the county ; and when it shall be filed
in pursuance of such direction, it shall be prosecuted by the
attorney for the county, or by some attorney to be retained
for that purpose.
"SEc. 2. On filing of such complaint, the clerk of the court
shall enter on the record an order, which may be in the following form:
1'' State of Arkansas on relation of -,
plaintiff, v. Certain lands on which taxes are alleged to be due, defendant.
"'Now, on this day came said plaintiff, and files here in
court his complaint, in which he sets forth that there are certain taxes due on the following lands:
[Here insert description of the lands.]
"'Now, therefore, all persons having any right or interest
in said lands, or any of them, are required to appear in this
court within forty days from this date, then and there to show
cause, if any they can, why a lien shall not be declared on said
lands for unpaid taxes, and why said lands shall not be sold
for non-payment thereof.'
"S1Ec. 3. The clerk of said court shall at once cause a copy
of said order to be published for two insertions in some newspaper published in the county, and, if there is no newspaper
published in the county, he shall cause a copy of said order to
be posted at the door of the court-house of the county, or of the
room in which the court is held, and such publication shall be
taken to be notice to all the world of the contents of the complaint filed as aforesaid, and of the proceedings had under it."
"SEc. 5. At the end of the forty days mentioned in section
2 of this act, the clerk shall enter upon the record a decreepro
confesso, covering all lands named in the complaint, regarding
which no answer has been filed, which order may be in the
following form:

DICK v. FORAKER.
Statement of the Case.

"'State of Arkansas on the relation of

,

plaintiff, V.

Certain lands on which taxes are alleged to be due, defendant.
"1It appearing that the order herein made, requiring the
owners of the lands in this suit to appear and show cause, if
any they could, why a lien should not be declared on certain
lands, named in the complaint herein, has been duly published
in the manner required by statute, and that no answer has
been put in as to the following tracts or parcels of land, that
is to say:
[Here describe the lands.]
" It is now, therefore, ordered that the complaint be taken
as true and confessed as to said lands above described.'"
In order to make out his case, the complainant offered the
record of the ptoceedings in the Ashley County circuit court,
from which his title took its origin. The record as offered is
in a very imperfect state, but it appears therefrom that on
May 4, 1884, on the relation of W. H. Arnold, a bill was filed,
which, after setting out the above provisions of Arkansas law,
substantially averred that upon certain lands described in an
exhibit annexed, certain taxes had been extended which were
past (lue, and other taxes had been extended which were unauthorized by law; that in pursuance of a warrant for the
collection of taxes on these lands, the collector had demanded
both the lawful and the unlawful taxes, and neither were paid,
and the lands were refurned as delinquent, and were forfeited
and sold to the State for the taxes for which they had been
respectively so returned; that the forfeiture and sale to the
State were void, because unlawful taxeg had been extended
against the land, and also on account of many other irregularities; that hence the State of Arkansas had no valid title
to any of the tracts, but, notwithstanding this fact, the state
land commissioner had conveyed part of the land standing in
the name of the State to such persons as had applied to purchase, and would convey the balance thereof unless the forfeiture was annulled.
This complaint as printed in the record is not complete. It
contains no prayer, but the following memorandum is at the
foot thereof:

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

"(Here the lower part of the complaint having become
worn out and destroyed, it is impossible to furnish a copy of
the same or the signature to the same.) The complaint was
regularly filed, but it is also worn too much to be copied. Clerk."
Annexed to the bill is a list of lands, containing among
others, those which are claimed by the complainant. There
is also the following entry in the record:
"'No order appointing G. W. Norman and J. W. Van Gilder
masters in chancery found on record, and below will be found the
docket entry of the same made on the judge's docket, to wit:
"Made 9th day of February, 1884, to wit:
"George W. Norman and J. W. Van Gilder appointed
masters in chancery to extend the taxes on said land before
the next term of the court.
"Report of Masters in Chancery.
"JuNE 2, 1884.

"To the Honorable Circuit Court of Ashley County:
"The undersigned, masters in chancery, appointed to extend
the taxes in the case now pending in said c6urt on the relation
of W. H. Arnold vs. Certain Lands upon which it is alleged
taxes are due, beg leave to report that they hive discharged
said duty as follows, by consent of parties representing the
State, the county, and the attorneys who brought the suit
against said lands:
"The taxes, penalties, and costs were fixed at 15 cents per
acre. Of this amount four cents is to be paid to the county,
two cents to the State, and the balance appropriated to expenses as follows: The attorneys, 3200 dollars; to clerk,
2500 dollars; to printer, 1250 dollars; to com'r, 1000; to
masters in chancery, 1000, and the excess that may be realized
above these amounts be distributed to the State and county
in proportion to two to one in favor of the county.
"In making the extension aforesaid, we were of the opinion
that the said six cents per acre about covered the average of
taxes due on said lands, as the alleged forfeitures occurred at
different periods of time.

DICK v. FORAKER.
Statement of the Case,
"We further report that we are fully satisfied that a sale
of the lands embraced in this report thus returned to the tax
books, the settling of disputed titles, etc., will inure to the
benefit of the entire community; and we further report that
we find certain lands marked on the bill were claimed by
parties who have made to us satisfactory showing that the
said lands were improperly thereon, and that said parties
claimed that the taxes thereon had been paid, and that the
title of the State to certain other lands was good.
"In each of said cases we have dismissed said lands, and
we desire the record in this case should show said fact of
dismissal.

"JoHN W. VAN GILDER.

"G~o. W. NoRmAf.

"Filed June 2, 1884.
"E. L. Tnonso-, CMk,
"By JAc KsoN, D. 0."

It is to be inferred, of course, that the masters here named
were regularly appointed. On June 2, 1894, the following
was entered of record:
"It appearing that the order herein made requiring the
owners of the lands in this suit to appear and show cause, if
any they could, why a lien should not be declared on certain
lands named in the complaint herein, has been duly published
in the manner required by statute, and that no answer has
been put in as to the following tracts or parcels of landthat is to say :
[Here follows a description of the land.]
"And it further appearing that the creditor of the State,
the relator, the prosecuting attorney of the 10th judicial district, and the judge of the county of Ashley have appeared and
consented that a decree should go against the above-described
lands for the taxes, penalty, and costs, assessed against them
as fixed by the master's report filed herein, it is therefore
ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the amount of taxes, penalty, and costs above set forth are due on said lands, and that
a lien for said taxes, penalty, and costs on said lands be fixed

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

by this decree; and it is further ordered that, if said sum of
money so adjudged against said lands shall not be paid within
twenty days from the 3d day of June, 1884, the said lands
shall be sold by a commissioner to be appointed by the chancellor, on the notice and at the place prescribed bylaw; and it
is further ordered that Thos. S. Stilwell be, and he is hereby,
appointed as special commissioner of this court, and that, having made the publication required by law, said commissioner
proceed to expose the said lands for sale oil Monday the 21st
day of July, 1884, at the court-house door, in the town of
Hamburg, and that said sale continue from day to day till all
of said lands be sold: Provided,That said lands are not to be
sold for an amount less than the taxes, penalty, and costs
herein assessed against each of said tracts of said lands, and
that he report his action herein to the next term of this court.
It is further ordered that upon sale aforesaid said commissioner
pay the fees and costs as follows, viz.:
"To the attorneys, thirty-two hundred and fifty (3250) dollars; to the clerk, twenty-five hundred (2500) dollars; to the
printer, twelve hundred and fifty (1250) dollars; to commissioner, one thousand (1000) dollars, and to the masters, one
thousand (1000) dollars ; and if enough of said - are not sold
to pay the above sums, that the commissioner pay pro rata."
The execution of this order was postponed by direction of
the court, but on September 14, 1884, the lands claimed by
complainant were adjudicated to him, and on May 14, 1881,
upon the expiration of the period allowed for the redemption,
the commissioner made to complainant a deed, which was
approved by the court.
.Mr. W. L. Terry for appellant.
Xr. D. W. Jones for appellee.
MR. JusTic

WHITE, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The suit was one to remove a cloud from the title to real
estate situated in the district where the suit was brought.

DICK v. FORAKER.
Opinion of the Court.

The defendant was a citizen of another State. The case was
obviously within the jurisdiction of the court. Revised Statutes, § 738;'Act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, § 8, 18 Stat. 470;
Act of August 13, 1888, c. 866, § 5, 25 Stat. 433; k/ellen v.
.M3oline M71alleable Iron Works, 131 U. S. 352; Arndt v. Griggs,
134 U. S. 316; Greeley v. -Lowe, ante, 58.
The contention is that the law giving jurisdiction, as against
a person not a citizen of the district where suit is brought to
remove a cloud from the title to real estate, situated therein,
applies only to cases where there are two or more defendants,
at least one of whom must be found in the district where the
suit is brought; that the jurisdiction exists to entertain a suit,
like the one before us, where there are two or more defendants, but not where there is only one. It was admitted that
this contention is unsound as applied to Rev. Stat. § 738, but
it is insisted that the point is well taken in consequence of a
change resulting from the reenactment of Rev. Stat. § 738, to
be found in section 8 of the act of March 3, 1875. The Revised Statutes gave the right to bring such a suit where "any
defendant" resided out of the district. The act of 1875 gives
the right "where one or more" may so reside. We see no
force in this argument, which in effect eliminates the word
"one" from the statute and replaces it by the word "two,"
thus causing it to read "two or more," instead of "one or
more." The, suggestion that as the words "one or more," in
section 737, Rev. Stat. contemplated a controversy in which
two or more defendants would be involved, therefore the
words "one or more" mean the same in the Act of 1875, is
fallacious.
Section 737 provides for a case where there are "several defendants" and "one or more" may be outside of the district;
the Act of 1875, on the contrary, provides for a case where
"one or. more of the defendants" may be outside of the district, the difference between the two being that which exists
between "one or more of several" and "one or more." The
demurrer was, therefore, correctly overruled.
The act of the Arkansas legislature which we have cited
provides that on the filing of the complaint with the clerk, an

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

order shall be entered on the record, notifying all persons
having any right or interest in the lands sought to be sold to
appear within forty days, and show cause why a lien should
not be declared on said land for unpaid taxes, and why said
land should not be sold for non-payment thereof. The act
directs the clerk to cause a copy of this order to be inserted
twice, in a newspaper published in the county, and if there be
no such newspaper to post a copy at the court-house door. It
further declares that such publication shall be taken to be
notice to all the world of the contents of the complaint. These
are the only provisions made in the act for notice to the land
owner. The proceedings leading up to the tax sale, as they
appear on the record before us, do not include the required
notice nor any order therefor, nor is it shown that any such
notice was put on record in the course of the tax sale proceedings. It is true that the order directing the sale recites: "It
appearing that the order herein made requiring the owners of
the land in this suit to appear and show cause, if any they
could, why a lien should not be declared on certain land, has
been duly published in the manner required by statute," etc.
This indirect 'reference to the notice is the only record evidence
that such a notice was made, put on record, or published.
In Gregory v. Bartlett, 55 Arkansas, 30, 33, the Supreme
Court of that State, having before it a case in which the notice
required by law under the terms of the second section was not
properly given, said:
"Without the statutory notice, therefore, there can be no
jurisdiction.
If the clerk makes the warning order, as the
second section of the act requires, but fails to publish or post
it, and that fact appears in the judgment record, there could
be no justifiable pretence of jurisdiction. If he publishes the
statutory warning without first making the order required by
section 2, the question is, does he make a legal publication ?
In other words, is he authorized by the statute to make publication when there is no previous order of record ? If he is not
so authorized, then the publication is without authority and is
not legal notice to the owner of the land. . . . When this
requirement of the statute is complied with, it furnishes to the

DICK v. FORAKER.
Opinion of the Court.

owner of delinquent lands a means of information which the
statute designed he should receive. Searching the records
and finding no order for a proceeding against his land, he had
a right to presume that none existed. There is nothing in the
statute to iTidicate that the legislature considered the entry of
the order upon the record as of any less significance than the
publication of it: In a section of the act where a form Of a
decree to be entered is given, it is made to recite that the
order was entered of record as well as that it was published;
and the requirement as to publication is that a copy of the
record entry shall be published. The order is the sole authority for the publication, and the evidence of it which the
statute requires is the record entry.
"The statute does not authorize the clerk to make the order
in any manner other than by entry on the record, and authorizes publication of nothing except a copy of the record. To'
say that the clerk can dispense with the record and make his
entry, in the first instance, in a newspaper, would be to disregard a plain provision of the statute and dispense with one
of the means the law affords for imparting information to the
land owner. But when a statutory provision is plain, and is
made to aid in the accomplishment of a useful end, it connot
be treated as merely directory, and so be disregarded. Especially does that rule apply to proceedings where publication
is relied upon as a substitute for personal service. Bush v.
Visant, 40 Arkansas, 124; Brodie v. Skelton, 11 Arkansas, 120.
No process was ever issued in the cause in which the
challenged decree was rendered . the court's determination of
any question was therefore coram non judice, and binding
upon no one.

.

.

.

The recital of the decree that there

was proper notice to the parties in interest is not conclusive of
that fact, but must be read in connection with that part of the
record which gives, or is required to give, the official evidence
of jurisdiction, as prescribed by statute. Boyd v. Roane, 49
Arkansas, 397 ; Settlemier v. Sullivan, 97 U. S. 444; Gapin
v. Page, 18 Wall. 350.
"If such evidence is not required by the statute to be placed
upon the record, and the record recites or is silent as to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

facts necessary to show jurisdiction, their existence will be
presumed, but no presumptions are indulged when the evidence is stated upon the record, Boyd v. Roane, 49 Arkansas,
397, or where the statute requires the jurisdictional facts to
appear of record and they are not made so to appear."
Thus the Supreme Court of Arkansas, in interpreting a
statute of that State, has held that the making of the record
entry of the notice required, and also the proof of its publication are indispensable to the validity of proceedings under the
statute; that such recorded notice is essential to give jurisdiction to the court, and that where the notice is not of record
the proceedings are absolutely void. As we have seen, this
record does not show either notice or publication. The appellee, then, seeks to have a cloud removed from his title when
he holds no title whatever; for, of course, it follows that if the
court was without jurisdiction the decree by it rendered was
utterly void, and the sale, having been made under the decree,
was equally vicious and wholly null. The rule in ejectment is
that the plaintiff must recover on the strength of his own title,
and not on the weakness of the title of his adversary. A like
rule obtains in an equitable action to remove a cloud from a
title, and title in the complainant is of the essence of the right
to relief. In Frost v. Spitley, 121 U. S. 552, 556, we said:
"Under the jurisdiction and practice in equity, independently
of statute, the object of a bill to remove a cloud upon title,
and to quiet the possession of real estate, is to protect the
owner of the legal title from being disturbed in his possession,
or harassed by suits in regard to that title; and the bill cannot be maintained without clear proof of both possession and
legal title in the plaintiff. Alexander v. Pendleton, 8 Cranch,
462; Peirsoll v. Elliott, 6 Pet. 95 ; Orton v. Smith, 18 How.
263; Crews v. Burhamr, 1 Black, 352; JFard v. Chamberlain,
2 Black, 430. As observed by Mr. Justice Grier in Orton v.
Smith, 'Those only who have a clear, legal and equitable title
to land, connected with possession, have any right to claim
the interference of a court of equity to give them peace or
dissipate a cloud on the title.' 18 How. 265."
The law of Arkansas authorizes a bill to remove a cloud on

DICK v. FORAKER.
Opinion of the Court.

a title whether or not the complainant be in possession. Act
of March 26, 1891, No..74, Stats. of 1891, 132. By reason of
this statute a bill in equity may be maintained in the Circuit
Court of the United States by a person not in possession
against another who is also out of possession. Holland v.
Challen, 110 U. S. 15, 25. But this does not make the complainant's rights-any the less dependent upon title in him nor
does it put him in a position to have a cloud removed from a
title which has no existence. In Frost v. Spitley, supra, it
was said, p. 557:
"A statute of Nebraska authorizes an action, to be brought
'by any person or persons, whether in actual possession or not,
claiming title to real estate, against any person or persons
who claim an adverse estate or interest therein, for the purpose of determining such estate or interest, and quieting the
title to said real estate.' Nebraska Stat. Feb. 21, 1873; Rev.
Stat. 1873, p. 882.

.

.

.

The requisite of the plaintiff's

possession is thus dispensed with, but not the other rules
which govern the jurisdiction of courts of equity over such
bills. Under that statute, as under the general jurisdiction in
equity, it is 'the title,' that is to say, the legal title, to real
estate, that is to be quieted against claims of adverse estates
or interests. In State v. Sioux City & Pacific Railroad, the
Supreme Court of Nebraska said: ' Whatever the rule may be
as to a party in actual possession, it is clear that a party not
in possession must possess the legal title, in order to maintain
the action.' 7 Nebraska, 357, 376. And in Holland v. (hallen,
above cited, this court said: 'Undoubtedly, as a foundation
for the relief sought, the plaintiff must show that he has a
legal title to the premises.' The necessary conclusion is, that
Spitley, not having the legal title of the lots in question, cannot maintain his bill for the purpose of removing a cloud on
the title."
It is said that the State of Arkansas became a party to the
proceedings in the Ashley County court, and is hence. bound
thereby, and from this is deduced the argument that inasmuch
as'the defendant derived his title from the State subsequent
to the complainants' purchase, the latter's title is validated.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Counsel for the Motion.

St/Jord v. Watson, 41 Arkansas, 1. But the appearance of
the State did not cure the radical defect in the proceedings
under which complainant purchased. The notice was essential
in order to affect the rights of the owner of the property as
against whom the proceedings were initiated and the sale was
made. The appearance of the State did not, therefore, give
the court jurisdiction or render the sale valid. There are
other contentions urged, but they are all covered by what
has been already said. They either arise from the erroneous
postulate that the complainant's title is not void, but simply
voidable, or are predicated on the equally unsound premise
that one having no title can successfully invoke the aid of a
court of equity to "remove a cloud" from such non-existent
title; that is to say, can ask a court to subtract something
from nothing.
Decree reversed and case 'emanded with directions to dismiss the bill.

BOBB v. JAMISON.
ERROR TO THE SUPRE3E COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 267.

Submitted December 10, 189t.-Decided

December 17,1894.

Duncan v. Xissouri, 152 U. S. 377, affirmed and followed.
MOTION to dismiss.
This cause, after trial below, was argued
before the Supreme Court of Missouri, Division No. 2, in banc.
The organization of that court is set forth in the statement
of facts in Duncan v. -Missouri, 152 U. S. 377. After the
court had given its opinion and announced its judgment, the
plaintiffs in error for the first time raised a Federal question in the cause in a motion for a rehearing. That motion
being denied, the case was brought here by writ of error,
which writ the defendants in error moved to dismiss.

Ytr. Thomas . Rowe in support of the motion.

