ALLIS v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

heard to assert, as a ground for the motion to- dismiss, that
the defendant might have taken a wrib of error from this court
to the Circuit Court under section five of the said act of 1891,
and had, by failing to do so, waived this right.
We are of opinion that the Circuit Court of Appeals was in
the proper exercise of jurisdiction in certifying the question
which it did, and that our jurisdiction to answer it is properly
invoked.
The decision in United States v. RMingenberg, 153 U. S. 93,
covers the case and requires
The question certified to be answered in the aiffrmative, and
it is so ordered.

ALLIS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.

.

No. 661. Argued October 23, 1894.-Decided November 12, 1894.

When the record in a criminal case brought here by the defendant is meagre,
containing only a small portion of the evidence, this court must assume,
as the verdict was sustained by the court below, that the testimony was
sufficient to establish defendant's guilt.
When a defendant is tried on an indictment charging false entries at different times running through several months, it is no error to admit evidence
of such acts during the whole period, although he may be found guilty
of only one such act.
Evidence having been given bearing upon one such alleged false entry,
made at a period considerably later than the only one of which the defendant was found guilty, no advantage can be taken by the defendant
here of the refusal of the court below to allow a cross question touching
such evidence.
It is common practice and no error to recallfa jury, after they have been in
deliberation for a length of time, for'th6 purpose of ascertaining what
difficulties they have in the consideration of the case, and of making
proper efforts to assist them in'their solution, and the time at which
such recall shall be made must be left to the discretion of the trial court.
There is nothing in the record to show that the court in this case abused
this discretion.
Rulings not specifically excepted to below are not reviewable here.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Coprt.
The rule repeated that in a Federal court the presiding judge may express
to the jury his opinion as to the weight of evidence.
In making such a statement he is under no obligation to recapitulate all the
items of the evidence, nor even all bearing on a single question.

ON May 13, 1893, the grand jury of the United States for
the Western Division of the Eastern District of Arkansas
presented an indictment against Horace G. Allis under section
5209 of the Revised Statutes. This section, so far as is
material to this case, reads as follows:
"Every president . . . of any association . . . who
makes any false entry in any book . . . of the association
..
with intent . . . to injure or defraud the association or any other company, body politic or corporate, or
any individual person, or to deceive any officer of the association, or any agent appointed to examine the affairs of any such
association . . . shall be deemed guilty," etc.
The indictment consisted of twenty-five counts. The de'fendant pleaded not guilty, and the case came on for trial on
November 2T, 1893. This trial resulted in a verdict of guilty
on the fourteenth count, upon which verdict the defendant was
sentenced to imprisonment for the term of five years. The
particular charge in that count was the making of an entry in
February, 1892, on the books of First National Bank of Little
Rock, of which defendant was the president, of the sum of fifty
thousand (50,000) dollars to the credit of his individual account.
To reverse the judgment and sentence against him, the defendant sued out a writ of error from this court.
.Mr. John 1?. Dos Passos and Mr. A. II. Garland, (with
whom was .Mr. Thomas B. Martin on the brief,) for plaintiff
in error.
.Mr.Assistant Attorney General Conrad for" defendants in
error.
-MR. JUsTcE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The meagre record gives us little information as to the
merits of this case, and presents but few questions for our con-

ALLIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

sideration. As the verdict was sustained by the trial judge,
we must assume that the testimony, only a small portion of
which is before us, was sufficient to establish the guilt of the
defendant, and unless error is disclosed in the special matters
presented to our consideration the judgment must be affirmed.
Upon the trial the court, over the objections of the defendant, permitted a witness, from an examination of the books
of the bank, to testify to the condition of the defendant's private account from February to December 1892. It is insisted
that this testimony was calculated to prejudice the jury against
the defendant; that the items of the entire account were not
in issue; that they were not within the scope of the indictment; and that, therefore, the defendant's attention had not
been called to them and he could not be prepared' to defend
against them. There are two sufficient answers to these
objections: 1st. While the defendant was found guilty only
on one, he was being tried on twenty-five counts, which counts
charged false entries at different times running from February
to December, and therefore testimony was competent as to
the condition of his account stretching through the entire
time. 2d. The gravamen of this offence is the false entry
with intent to injure, defraud, or deceive, and it was competent to show the state of the defendant's account, not
merely at the very day the false entry was made, but also
before and after that date, for the purpose of throwing light
on the intent with which it was made.
Again, a bookkeeper having testified to the making of false,
entries under the direction of the defendant, was asked on
cross-examination whether a report prepared .by him in September, in the absence of the defendant from the State, did
not contain the identical false entry subsequently found in
the December report, the making of which last entry was the
offence charged in one of the counts of the indictment. The
court refused to permit an answer to this question. As the
jury did not find the defendant guilty on that count, and as
the question related to matters occurring more than. six
months after the false entry of which he was found guilty,
and to an entirely different transaction, it is- obvious that ihe
defendant was not prejudiced by the ruling.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

It is further insisted that the court erred in permitting the
translation of a cipher telegram from the defendant to be
received in evidence and read to the jury.. It is sufficient to
say, in respect to this matter, that no exceptions were taken
to the rulings of the court, and, indeed, no objections were
made to the admission of the testimony after all the preliminary proofs had been received.
The other errors complained of are in the charge to the jury.
It appears from the bill of exceptions that after the jury
had been deliberating for several hours on the case, the court
called them into the court-room and inquired if they had
reached a verdict. On being informed that they had not, the
court asked if there was any portion of the charge the rereading of which would be of any assistance to them. To which
question the foreman responded that a portion thereof was
not fully understood by all of the jury, to wit, that in reference to the weight of the testimony &f the witnesses. Thereupon the court reread that portion. It further stated that
the jury were at liberty to conduct their deliberations as they
chose, but that he would call their attention again to the part
of the charge relating to the fourteenth, fifteenth, eighth and
ninth counts of the indictment, and proceeded to reread that
1 art. In the portion reread, after a reference to the alleged
false credit of $50,000, was this language: "And if he caused
these entries to be made, with what intent did he do so? If
a customer or friend of yours who owed you $40,000 on
account should come to you and tell you that he had deposited
$50,000 to your credit in the German National Bank of Little
Rock, and that he wanted a receipt for the $40,000 that he
owed you and wanted a credit for the other $10,000, and you
should give him the receipt and the credit, and should subsequently learn that he had never deposited one dollar in that
bank for you. with what intent would you conclude he had
made these statements? Would you think it was with an
honest purpose or with some intent to injure or defraud
you? "
The bill- of exceptions also contains other parts of the charge
as follows: "You are not bound to be governed by any state-

ALLIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

ment of the evidence made by the court, but if your recollection
accords with that of the court you may accept it, and if it
differs from it you may be governed by your, own memory.
It is your exclusive province and duty to determine the issues
of fact here presented and the weight and credibility of the
testimony of the witnesses, and by your determination of
these questions the court will be bound. If in the course of
what the court may say to you any expression of opinion
should drop as to the disputed issues of fact or the credibility
of the testimony of the witnesses, you are not bound by any
such expression, but it is your privilege to adopt or disregard
it as you may see fit."
"The court has reviewed the counts of this indictment and
called your attention to some of the important evidence in
the hopd that this might be of some assistance to you in
reaching a just verdict. There is much testimony bearing
upon many of these counts that has not been called to your
attention. You will consider that as carefully and as well
as that which has been referred to, and will remember that
whatever may have been said by the court, you are the exclusive judges of the questions of fact and of the credibility of
the witnesses." Closing its remarks to the jury at the time
of their recall, it said: "Of course, gentlemen of the jury,
you must consider all the other parts of the charge heretofore
read to you also. I have simply called your attention to these
four counts, thinking possibly I might assist you in arriving
at a just conclusion.
"The court and jury are here to come to a just and
righteous result. No doubt you are as anxious to reach it
as am I.
" So anxious is the court that, having spent now two weeks
in the trial of this cause, I am willing to stay here another if
by that means we may be able to reach a just and properresult in this trial. You may retire."
To the charge, of which the only portions preserved in the
record are those just referred to, a single exception was taken
in the following words: "The defendant excepts to the action
of the court in recalling the jury and in arguing the testimony

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

and in stating part of the testimony on certain points without
stating the entire testimony." It is now insisted that the
court expressed an opinion as to the inference to be drawn
from the facts, argued the question of intent to the jury and
sought to coerce a verdict. But the exception taken is not
sufficient to bring all these matters before us. There is no
intimation in the exception that the defendant at the time
thought that the court was trying to coerce the jury, or suggested that its language might have such an influence upon
them. Evidently the claim of coercion is an afterthought from
subsequent study of the record. But it is settled that no such
afterthought justifies a reviewing court n reversing the judgment. A party must make every reasonable effort to secure
from the trial court correct rulings or such at least as are satisfactory to him before he will be permitted to ask any review
by the appellate tribunal; and to that end he must be distinct
and specific in his objections and exceptions. Rule 4 of this
court provides: "The party excepting shall be required to
state distinctly the several matters of law in such charge to
which he excepts; and those matters of law, and those only,
shall be inserted in the bill of exceptions and allowed by the
court." Repeated decisions have emphasized the necessity of
a strict adherence to this rule: "However it might pain us
to see injustice perpetuated by a judgment which we are precluded from reviewing by the absence of proper exceptions
to the action of the court below, justice itself and fairness to
the court which makes the rulings complained of, require that
the attention of that court shall be specifically called to the
precise point to which exception is taken, that it may have
an opportunity to reconsider the matter and remove the
ground of exception." Harvey v. Tyler, 2 Wall. 328, 339.
"If it was intended to save an exception as to distinct propositions embodied in the instructions, the attention of the
court should have been directed to the specific points concerning which it was supposed error had been committed."
.Xoulor v. Am. 1ife I-ns. 0o., 111 U. S. 335, 337. "An exception ' to all and each part' of the charge gave no information
whatever as to what was in the mind of the excepting party,

ALLIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

and, therefore, gave no opportunity to the trial court to
correct any error committed by it." Block v. Darling,140
U. S. 234, 238. See also Phenix Life Ins. Co. v. Raddin,
120 U. S. 183, and cases cited in the opinion; J7. Y. &
Colorado Mfining Co. v. Frazer, 130 U. S. 611; Anthony v.
Louisville 6 Nashville Railroad, 132 U. S. 172. We see
nothing in this case to withdraw it from the .scope and control of this rule.
The specific matters excepted to are: 1st, the action of the
court in recalling the jury; 2d, itsarguing the testimony; and
3d, its stating part of the testimony on certain points without
stating the entire testimony. It is a familiar practice to recall
a jury after they have been in deliberation for any length of
time for the purpose of ascertaining what difficulties they
have in the consideration of the case, and of making proper
efforts to assist them in the solution of those difficulties. It
would be startling to have such action held to be error, and
error sufficient to reverse a judgment. The time at which
such a recall shall be made, if at all, must be left to the sound
discretion of the trial court, and there is-nothing in the record
to show that the court, in the case at the bar, abused this discretion or failed to wait a reasonable time for the consideration of the case by the jury under the charge as already
given.
So far as "arguing the testimony" is concerned, the only
part of the charge that can be considered as even tending in
that direction was that part referring to the question of intent.
We see nothing in this of which any just complaint ,can be
made. The illustration given by the court was apt and fair,
and if it bore hardly upon the defendant it was only because
the transaction, of which he was charged, was one of like
character and indicative of the same intent. The illustration
was put in the form of a question, and no affirmation was
made as to the intent that must be presumed therefrom.
Even if it contained an expression of opinion, such expression is permissible in the Federal courts. Simmons v.
United States, 142 U. S.148; Doyle v. Railway Co., 141 U. S.
413.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1894.
Syllabus.

So far as respects the complaint that the court stated part
of the testimony on a certain point without stating all, we
know of no rule that compels a court to recapitulate all the
items of the evidence, nor even all bearing upon a single
question. There was no intimation that all the testimony
bearing upon any particular point was stated. On the contrary, the plain declaration was that there was other testimony
than that mentioned, and the jury were admonished to give
that not mentioned as full and careful consideration as that
mentioned.
So far as the record discloses, the charge of the court and
its rulings on the trial were eminently fair and considerate of
the rights of the defendant. In none of the matters referred
to do we find any error, and therefore, the judgment is
4/lrned.

ERHARDT v. SCHIROEDER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 31.

Argued January 24, 25, 1894. -Decided

November 12, 1894.

It is a general rule that provisions in statutes imposing taxation, though
not in terms mandatory, are to be regarded as such if necessary for the
substantial protection of the taxpayer.

The customs laws, however, give to the complaining importer an ample
remedy, only putting him to the inconvenience of seeking it in a legal

tribunal.
In an action to recover duties alleged to have been illegally exacted, the
burden is on the importer to overcome the presumption of a legal collection by proof that their exaction was unlawful.
Although the appraisement of goods by customs officers is not ordinarily

open to judicial review, that rule does not apply when the value is determined by a classification made by the officer.
The provision in Schedule F, of the act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, 22 Stat.
488, 503, imposing a duty upon leaf tobacco, evidently requires that 85
per cent of half leaves are to be of the requisite size and necessary fine-

ness of texture for wrappers, or, in other words, that each of 85 half

