McKNIGHT v. JAMES.
Statement of the Case.

We do not wish to be understood as imputing any bad faith
to the plaintiff in this particular, as there are undoubtedly
decisions, even of the Court of Claims, which uphold charges
of this description, Dennison v. United States, 25 C. Cl. 304;
-Allen v. United States, 26 0. Cl. 445; and the department seems
to have paid many of these accounts without question since
these decisions. We are, however, clear in our opinion that
the service is not one within the spirit or the letter of the
statute; that the Circuit Judge was right in refusing to approve the account; and that the allowance of other accounts of
a similar nature works no estoppel upon the government. If
there be any estoppel at all it 'is against the claimant, who
has already been paid for a similar service performed since
the transcript in question was made.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is, therefore,
Affinmed.

MoKNIGHT v. JAMES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO FOR THE
SECOND JUDICIAL CIRCUIT.
No. 841. Argued and submitted December 19, 1894. -Decided

January 14,1895.

A writ of error will not go from this court to an order of a judge of a
Circuit Court of a State, made at chambers, remanding a prisoner in a
habeas corpus proceeding.

TIs proceeding was begun by a petition in habeas corpus
to the circuit court of Franklin County, Ohio, setting forth
that the petitioner McKnight was unlawfully deprived of his
liberty in the Ohio penitentiary, under a certificate of sentence
of the court of common pleas of Wood County, for the crime
of forgery. Petitioner charged that there was no judgment or
sentence authorizing such certificate; that the same was therefore void, and said imprisonment without legal authority, and
without due process of law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Counsel for Defendant in'Error.

Under this petition a writ of habeas corpus was granted by
the Hon. Gilbert I. Stewart, judge of the circuit court of tie
second circuit, and McKnight ordered to be produced before
him in Columbus on August 31, 1894.
iRespondent James made return to the writ, setting forth
the certificate of sentence, and averring that the court of
common pleas of Wood County did render the judgment
and pronounce the sentence, by authority of which he held
McKnight in custody; that said judgment was afterwards
affirmed, by the circuit court of Wood County, in a proceeding in error prosecuted by McKnight; that the case was subsequently brought before the Supreme Court of Ohio, on a
motion made and filed by this petitioner, and that that court.
after reviewing the entire record and proceedings in the lower
courts, denied the application, thus affirming the original
judgment of the court of common pleas.
Petitioner replied and averred that, after entering a plea of
"not guilty," he was brought before the court without counsel,
and indigent and unable to procure counsel; but the court
proceeded to try him without counsel to defend him, and he
was thereby deprived of his constitutional right to have the
assistance of counsel in his defence; and that the certificate
of sentence also was void in the fact that the requirement
that he be kept at hard labor, which appears in such certificate, was not imposed by the court as a part of its sentence,
and was wholly unauthorized.
The case was heard September 1, 1894, upon pleadings and
testimony, by the Hon. Gilbert H. Stewart, sitting in chambers,
and an order made that McKnight be remanded to the custody
of the defendant James as warden of the Ohio penitentiary;
whereupon the petitioner sued out this'writ of error directed
to the judge by name.
J11r. IEira, P. -icKnight, the plaintiff in error, submitted
on his brief.
-Mr. J. K. Richards, Attorney General of the State of Ohio,
for defendant in error.

McKNIGHT v. JAMES.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JUSTICE BROWN,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
As, under Rev. Stat. ยง 709, a writ of error will go from
this court only to the final judgment of the highest court of
the State in which a decision in the suit can be had, it is evident that our jurisdiction in this case cannot be sustained,
unless an order of a judge at chambers remanding a prisoner
in a habeas corpus proceeding, can be regarded as an order of
a "court" within the meaning of this section.
We held, however, in Carver v. Fitzgerald,121 U. S. 87, that
an appeal did not lie to this court, from an order of- a Circuit
Judge of the United States, sitting as a judge and not as a
court, discharging a prisoner brought before him on a writ of
habeas corpus, for the reason that the act of March 3, 1885,
c. 353, 23 Stat. 437, gave an appeal to this court in habeas
corpus cases only from the final decision of a circuit court;
and that Rule 34 did not make his decision as judge a decision
of the court, the purpose of that rule being to regulate appeals
to the Circuit Court from the final decision of any court,
justice, or judge inferior to that court, as well as appeals from
the final decision of such Circuit Court to the Supreme Court.
As a writ of error from this court can only go to the highest
court of a State, it follows by analogy that it will not lie to
review the order of a judge at chambers.
The jurisdiction of this cburt was treated in the brief of plaintiff in error as if it turned upon the question whether, under
the practice in Ohio, a writ of error lay from the Supreme
Court of that State to an order of a circuit judge at chambers
-- the argument being that it did not, and hence that such
judge was the highest court of the State in which a decision
in the suit could be had, and a writ of error would, therefore,
lie from this court. In this view, petitioner should at least
have applied to that court for a writ of error, or had the order
of the circuit judge. at chambers made the order of the circuit
court. If it be true that, under the laws of Ohio, the final
order of a circuit judge at chambers be the judgment or decree
of a circuit &ourt; then it is undoubtedly reviewable by the

-OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

Supreme Court of Ohio, which is the highest tribunal of
Ohio, and is expressly given jurisdiction by statute to review
the judgments and orders of the circuit court. But, if this
order be not a judgment or decree of a court, then it is not
reviewable here, because this court, under ยง 709, is given
authority to review only the judgment and decree of the
highest court of the State. In other words, the order cannot
be the order of a judge to defeat the jurisdiction in error of
the Supreme Court of Ohio, and at the same time an order of
a court to confer jurisdiction upon this court to issue a writ
of error. The argument in reality defeats itself. Its very
strength is also its weakness. By proving that a writ of error
will lie from this court, it also proves that a writ of error will
lie from the Supreme Court of Ohio, and this fact of itself
defeats the jurisdiction of this court. Whether the principle
of this case applies to other than habeas corpus cases we do
not undertake to determine.
The writ of error must, therefore, be

Dismissed.

POSTAL TELEGRAPH CABLE COMPANY v. ADAMS.
ERRO1

TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 649.

Submitted December 8,1894.--Decided January 21, 1895.

While a State cannot exclude from its limits a corporation engaged in- interstate or foreign commerce, or a corporation in the employment of the
general government, by the imposition of unreasonable conditions, it
may subject it to a property taxation incidentally affecting its occupation in the same way that business of individuals or other corporations
is affected by common governmental burdens.
The tax imposed by the laws of Mississippi, (Code of 1880, c. 10, ยง 585; Sess.
Laws 1888, c. 3,) when enforced against a telegraph company organized
under the laws of another State, and engaged in interstate commerce in
Mississippi, being graduated according to the amount and value of the
company's property measured by miles, and bWing in lieu of taxes directly
levied on the property, is a tax which it is within the power of the State
to impose; and the exercise of that power, as expounded by the highest
judicial tribunal of the State, does not amount to a regulation of interstate commerce, or put an unconstitutional restraint thereon.

