OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

removed into the Circuit Court of the United States by the
Postal Telegraph Cable Company, that company must pay
the costs in that court, as well as in this court. Tennessee v.
Banke of Commerce, above cited; ilanrick v. 1Tanrick, 153
U. S. 192.
Judgment reversed accordingly.

EAST LAKE LAND COMPANY v. BROWN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR TIE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABA-MA.
No. 121. Submitted December 14, 1894. -Decided December 17, 1894.

Chappell v. WVaterworth, 155 U. S. 102, affirmed and applied to the point that,
under the acts of March 3, 1887, c. 373, and August 13, 1888, c. 866, a
case (not depending on the citizenship of the parties, nor otherwise
specially provided for) cannot be removed from a state court into tile
Circuit Court of the United States, as one arising under the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States, unless that appears by the
plaintiff's statement of his own claim ; and if it does not so appear, the
want cannot be supplied by any statement in. the petition for removal,
or in the subsequent pleadings.

THIS action was commenced in the City Court of Birmingham, Alabama. The complaint was as follows: "The plaintiff
sues to recover the following tract of land, the north half of
the southwest quarter of section fourteen (14), township seventeen (17), range two (2) west, in Jefferson County, Alabama,
of which it was possessed before the commencement of this
suit, and after such possession accrued the defendant entered
thereupon and unlawfully withholds and detains the same,
together with one thousand dollars for the detention thereof."
The defendant pleaded "not guilty," and petitioned for the
removal of the cause to the Circuit Court of the United States
on the ground "that said action was brought by the said East
Lake Land Company for the purpose of recovering from petitioner the possession of the N. -* of the S. W. I of section 14,
township 17, of range 2 west, in Jefferson County, Alabama, of

CHASE v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

which land petitioner was at, the beginning of said suit and is
now seized and possessed, and that petitioner's right and title
to said land is as a homestead entered by him under the homestead laws of the United States, and for which petitioner holds
a certificate of entry under said statutes, and that petitioner's
title and right to said lands arise under the laws of the United
States, and that the matter in dispute in this suit exceeds the
sum of two thousand dollars, exclusive of costs."
The cause wa§ so removed, and on trial a verdict was had
for the defendant, and judgment on the verdict. The cause
was brought here by WVrit of error.
.Mr. John

. JForganfor plaintiff in error.

.Mr. D. P. Bestoi for defendant in error.
THE CHIEF JuSTICE: The judgment is reversed with costs,
and the case remanded with a direction to remand it to the
City Court of Birmingham, county of Jefferson, Alabama, on
the authority of Chappell v. l1aterworth, 155 U. S. 102.
Reversed and remanded.

CHASE v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIROUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF INKDIAXNA.
Wo. 83. Argued November 19, 1694.-

Decided. December 10.1S94.

Judgments in a District or Circuit Court of the United States in cases brought
under the act of March 3, 1887, c. 359, 24 Stat. 505, are not required to be
brought here for revisioii by appeal only, but may be brought by writ of
error; but they will be redxamIned here only when the record contains
a specific finding of facts with the conclusions of law thereon.
On the 1st day of May, 1870, the Postmaster General had no authority to
contract in writing for the lease of accommodations for alocal post office
in a building for a term 'of twenty years.

THIS writ of error brought up a judgment of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Indiana, dis-

