OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

INGRAHAM v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF RHODE ISLAND.
No. 379. Submitted October 23, 1894.-

Decided December 17, 1894.

Pointerv. United States, 151 U. S. 396, sustained and applied to the point

that it is not error to join distinct offences in one indictment, in separate
counts, against the same person.
A person who presents to the Third Auditor of the Treasury what purports
to be an affidavit before a justice of the peace in support of a fraudulent claim against the Government, is estopped to deny that the document was not an affidavit when presented in evidence in criminal
proceedings against him for such fraudulent act.
It is not necessary, in the first instance, in order to prove such offence, to
produce the commission of the justice, or to introduce other official
evidence of his appointment.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Xr. Charles -E. Page and .Mr. Franklin P. Owen for
plaintiff in error.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney General Whitney for defendants in
error.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

By the first count of an indictment in the court below it
was charged that the plaintiff in error, Royal Ingraham, on
the 11th day of December, 1890, within the District of Rhode
Island, did knowingly, wilfully and unlawfully make and present and cause to be made and presented for payment and
approval to the Third Auditor of the Treasury of the United
States of America a claim for payment and reimbursement to
him of certain alleged expenses of the last sickness and burial
of his mother, Freelove Ingraham, who in her lifetime had
been a pensioner of the United States of America under a pension issued to her, and who prior to the above date had died
leaving no widower or minor child surviving her; which claim

INGRAHAM v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

it was alleged was false, fraudulent, and fictitious in that it
was stated in it that the last sickness of the pensioner continued uninterruptedly from July 21, 1889, to the date of her
death on the 19th day of September, A.D. 1890, that he had
actually paid to Perry Ingraham and Mary Ingraham for
board, nursing, arid medicines furnished to the pensioner the
sum of three hundred and eighteen dollars, and to one Zylphia
Ingraham for services as nurse the sum of one hundred and
forty-eight dollars and fifty-seven cents; whereas, the last sickness of the pensioner was of only a few days' duration, and
the defendant had not at the time when he made his claim
paid to Perry Ingraham and Mary Ingraham any sum for board,
nursing, and medicine so furnished, and to Zylphia Ingraham
any sum for services as nurse, he then and there well knowing
his claim to be false, fraudulent, and fictitious, and the Third
Auditor being then and there authorized to approve and allow it.
By a second count in the indictment it was charged that the
plaintiff in error on the 11th day of December, 1890, for the
purpose of obtaining and aiding to obtain the payment and
approval of the above claim, did knowingly, wilfully and unlawfully use and cause to be used a certain false affidavit, to
wit, the affidavit of Perry Ingraham and Mary E. Ingraham,
subscribed and sworn to on the 9th day of December, A.D.
1890, before Daniel H. Remington, a justice of the peace, he
then and there well knowing that said affidavit contained the
fraudulent and fictitious statement that on the 1st day of November, 1890, they, Perry Ingraham and Mary E. Ingraham,
received from him the suim of $318 in payment of an account
therein stated for board, nursing, and medicine furnished to
the pensioner, Freelove Ingraham, in her lifetime; whereas
they, or either of them, did not, at any time prior to the making of such affidavit, receive from him any sum in payment
of an account for board, nursing-or medicine so furnished or
for any services rendered to said pensioner.
There was evidence before the jury tending to show that
the accused presented to the Third Auditor of the Treasury of
the United States and used and caused to be used before that
.officer in the prosecution of his claim against the government

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

of the United States a certain paper in the form of and purporting to be an affidavit signed by Perry Ingraham and Mary
E. Ingraham, and purporting to be sworn to before Daniel H.
Remington as a justice of the peace, and certified to that effect
by him. But there was no further testimony tending to show
that Remington was duly commissioned and qualified as a
justice of the peace and was authorized to administer oaths.
Nor does the bill of exceptions state what evidence, relating
to other points, was adduced before the jury.
At the conclusion of the evidence the prisoner presented
several requests for instructions to the jury. These requests
were refused, and an exception was properly taken to the
action of the court.
After a verdict of guilty, and the denial of a motion in arrest
of judgment, the defendant was sentenced to one year's imprisonment at hard labor in the state-prison. 49 Fed. Rep. 155.
The indictment in this case was based on section 5438 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States. So much of that section as is relevant to this case is in these words: "Every person
who makes or causes to be made, or presents or causes to be
presented, for payment or approval, to or by any person or
officer in the civil, military, or naval service of the United
States, any claim upon or against the government of the
United States, or any department or officer thereof, knowing
such claim to be false, fictitious or fraudulent, or who, for the
purpose of obtaining or aiding to obtain the payment or
approval of such claim, makes, uses, or causes to be made or
used, any false bill, receipt, voucher, roll, account, claim, certificate, affidavit or deposition, knowing the same to contain any
fraudulent or fictitious statement or entry, . . . every person so offending in any of the matters set forth in this section
shall be imprisoned at hard labor for not less than one nor
more than five years, or fined not less than one thousand nor
more than five thousand dollars."
1. Although each count of the indictment charged a distinct
offence, it was not error to embrace both offences in one indictment in separate counts. Such joinder, where two or more
acts or transactions are connected together, or are of the same

INGRAHAM v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

class of crimes or offences, is expressly provided for in section
1024 of the Revised Statutes. The subject of the joinder of
d.istinct offences in one indictment against the same person
was fully examined in Pointer v. United States, 151 U. S.
396, 400.
2. The paper presented by the defendant to the Third Auditor of the Treasury of the United States in support of his
claim against the government, purporting to be the affidavit
of Perry Ingraham and Mary E. Ingraham, certified by Daniel
H. Remington, as a justice of the peace in Rhode Island, was
admissible in evidence without formal proof that Remington
had been duly commissioned and had duly qualified as a justice
of the peace. Even if Remington had not been properly
commissioned, or had not qualified so as to entitle him, in law,
to discharge the functions of a justice of the peace, the paper
presented by the defendant to the Third Auditor of the Treasury for the purpose of obtaining the payment or approval of
his claim, being in the form of an affidavit, must, for all the
purposes of this prosecution, be taken to be an'affidavit. If
he knew that the statement in that paper, described in the
indictment, was fraudulent or fictitious, he was not the less
guilty under the second count, because of the fact, if such was
the fact, that Remington had not been duly commissioned as
a justice of the peace, and was not, for that reason, entitled to
administer the oath certified by him. The essence of the
offence charged in the second count was the use by the defendant of a document or writing known by him to contain a
fraudulent or fictitious statement made to secure the payment
or approval of his claim. He is estopped to deny that the
document or writing so used was not what it purports to be,
namely, an affidavit.
Besides, the contention of the accused could not be sustained
even if the word "affidavit" in section 5438 were held. to imply
a declaration or affirmation in writing, sworn to or affirmed
before some officer duly appointed and having legal authority
to administer oaths or to take affirmations. It is not suggested
nor could it be said that Remington, if duly commissioned or
appointed a justice of the peace, was without such authority.

OCTOBER TERMg 1894.
Syllabus.

Pub. Stat. R. I. c. 23, § 9. But having acted in that capacity,
the presumption will be indulged, nothing to the contrary
appearing, that he was duly commissioned or appointed to the
office whose functions he exercised. It was not necessary, in
the first instance, in order to prove the offence charged, to produce his commission or introduce other official evidence of his
appointment. Such is the general rule. It is one of public
convenience and of long standing. Bermjman v. ise, 4 T. R.
366; 1 Greenleaf's Ev. § 92; 1 Bishop's Or. Pro. § 1130, and
authorities cited; 1 Wharton Or. Ev. § 833, and authorities
cited; Beg. v. Roberts, 14 Cox Or. Cas. 101, 103; Beg. v.
fJoward, 1 M1[oody & Rob. 187; Rex v. Verelst, 3 Camp. 432.
What has been said meets all the points suggested in the
brief of counsel for the plaintiff in error.
Judgment ajfirmed.

POTTER v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 531.

Argued November 14, 15, 1S94.-

Decided December 17,1894.

In an indictment for a statutory offence, while it is doubtless true that it is
not always sufficient to use simply the language of the statute in describing the offence, yet, if such language is, according to the natural -import
of the words, fully descriptive of the offence, then ordinarily it is sufficient.
A charge in an indictment that tile defendant was president of a national
bank, and as such on a day and at a place named unlawfully, knowingly,
and wilfully certified a certain cheque, (describing it,) drawn upon the
bank, and that the drawer did not then and there have on deposit with
the bank an amount of money equal to-the amount specified in the cheque,
is a sufficient averment of the offence described in Rev. Stat. § 5208,
the punishment for which is provided for in the act of July 12, 1882, c.
290, 22 Stat. 162,'166.
As it is of the essence of the offence against those acts that the criminal act
should have been done wilfully, a person charged with it is entitled to
have submitted tro the jury, on the question of "1wilful" wrongdoing,
evidence of an agreement on the part of the officers of the bank that it
should be treated as a loan from day to day, secured by ample collateral,

