SCHILLINGER v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

SCHILLINGER v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No.4.

Argued October 9,10, 1894.-Decided November 19, 1894.

The United States cannot be sued in their courts without their consent.
In granting such consent Congress has an absolute discretion to specify the
cases and contingencies in which the liability of the government is submitted to the courts for judicial determination, and courts may not go
beyond the letter of such consent.
The Court of Claims has no jurisdiction of a claim against the government
for a mere tort.
The owner of letters patent for an Invention, who sets up in the Court of
Claims that a contractor with the United States has made use of the
patented invention in the execution of his contract without compensation
to the claimant, and against his protest, whereby there was a wrongful
appropriation of the patent by the United States for their sole use and
benefit, and that a right has accrued to him to recover of the United
States the damages thus dbne to him, to be measured by the saving or
profit made by the United States, thereby sets up a claim sounding in tort,
of which the Court of Claims has no jurisdiction.
When a contractor with the United States, in the execution of his contract,
uses any patented tool, machine, or process, and the government accepts
the work done under such contract, qzutre, whether it. can be said to have
appropriated and be in possession of any property of the patentee in
such a sense that the patentee may waive tort and sue as on an implied
promise.

ON July 19, 1870, a patent was issued to John J. Schillinger
for an improvement in concrete pavement. The claim of the
patent was in these words:
"The arrangement of tar paper or its equivalent between
adjoining blocks of concrete, substantially as and for the purpose described."
A reissue was granted May 2, 1871. The claims in the
reissue were thus stated:
"c1. A concrete pavement laid in detached blocks or sections,
substantially in the manner shown and described.
"2. The arrangement of tar paper or its equivalent between
adjoining blocks of concrete, substantially as and for the purpose set forth."

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

On February 27, 1875, Schillinger filed in the Patent Office
a disclaimer; which, after stating the language of the specification disclaimed, added: "Your petitioner hereby disclaims
the forming of blocks from plastic material without interposing
anything between their joints while in the process of formation."
Thereafter the Architect of the Capitol invited proposals for
a concrete pavement in the Capitol grounds, and on September
2, 1875, entered into a contract with G. W. Cook for the laying of such pavement. It does not appear that in the proposals, specifications, or contract there was in terms any reference
to or description of the Schillinger patent.
Frederick Law Olmsted was the person who prepared the
plans and specifications, and in the contract it was provided as
follows:
"The pavement to be laid with free joints, in the best manner, the courses running diagonally, and arranged around t~e
curved parts to the satisfaction of the said Fred. Law Olmsted.
"It is understood and agreed by the party of the second
part that in the event of any legal proceedings being taken by
other parties against the contractor of the United States for
the infringement of any patent or claimed patent during the
execution of the work the contractor shall hold the United
States harmless ; and if said proceedings tend to create delay
in the prosecution of the work the United States shall have
the right to immediately employ other parties to complete the
same, and the contractor shall reimburse the United States in
any extra amount it may have to pay for such completion over
and above the amount which the contractor would have been
entitled to for the same work."
This is the only language found in the contract which in any"
manner suggests the use, or possibility of use, of the Schillinger patent. The contract price was 28J cents per square foot.
Certain of the claimants who had acquired by assignment the
right to use the Schillinger patent in the District of Columbia
were bidders for such contract, and proposed to do the work
in accordance with the Schillinger patent at 45 cents per square
foot. Cook proceeded to perform the contract; finished it,

SCHILLINGER v. UNITED 'STATES.
Statement of the Case.

and received payment between October, 1875, and July,
1881.
On Mfarch 22, 1887, these claimants filed their petition in
the Court of Claims, asserting full ownership of the Schillinger patent, and seeking to recover from the United States,
damages for the wrongful use thereof in the construction of
this pavement. I The Court of Claims held, (24 C. C1. 278,)
1 The material allegations in the petition respecting the claims for -damage were these: (Reporter.)
"Your petitioners aver that during the year 1875 the aforesaid Architect
Clark advertised for proposals to do this artificial stone work in the Capitol
grounds, and your petitioners, in pursuance of said advertisement, put in a
bid to do the work under the Schillinger patent aforesaid. The contract
was awarded by said Architect Clark to one George W. Cook, who was a
lower bidder, and the architect of the Capitol entered into a contract with
the said George W. Cook to do the work aforesaid, which contract is made
part hereof and marked Exhibit C," and the said contract embraced the
use of the said Schillinger patent, to the great damage and injury of your
petitioners' business.
" Your petitioners aver that they protested against the use of their patent
without compensation, and, notwithstanding said protest and notice, the
said. Architect Clark caused the said artificial stone sidewalk to be laid
under the said Schillinger patent, and it has all been laid under said Schillinger patent without any compensation to your petitioners and contrary, to
the laws of the United States.
"Your petitioners also aver that the said Schillinger patent had at the
time of the making of the said contract with the said Cook by the architect
of the"Capitol gone into general and public use, and was acquiesced in by
the public as valuable and hseful; that this wrongful .appropriation of the
patent by the United States government for its sole use and benefit encouraged others to infringe, and your petitioners were greatly damaged thereby.
" Your petitioners claim the right to recover the damages done to them
by this wrong, and the saving or profit made by the United States as the
basis of this suit is upon their patent rights, which are founded upon the
patent laws of the United States.
"Your petitioners further aver that the said architect of the Capitol has
laid or has directed and caused to be laid for the sole use and benefit of the
United States about 249,361 feet of this sidewalk in the Capitol grounds,
in all of which the Schillinger patent has been used and is embodied in it.
" The actual profit of which your petitioners have been deprived in this
work is ($69,820.68) sixty-nine thousand eight hundred and twenty dollars
and sixty-eight cents, and the actual saving to the Government by the use
of said Schillinger patent in this work is about two hundred and fifty thousand dollars, for which last amount -yourpetitioners claim judgment."

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

that there was no contract, either expressed or implied, on the
part of the government for the use of such patent, and on that
ground dismissed the petition as outside of the jurisdiction of.
the court.
From that judgment the claimants appealed to this court.
_Ar. John, . -Fay and .Ar. William G. Johnson for appellants.
Ar. Eppa Hunton and -Mr. V. B. Edwards filed briefs for
appellants.
_Yr. Robert Howard filed a brief for appellants.
_Mr. Assistant Attorney General Conradfor appellees.
MR.

JusTicE

BREWFE,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The United States cannot be sued in their courts without

their consent,.and in granting such consent Congress has an
absolute discretion to specify the cases and contingencies in
which the liability of the Government is submitted to the
courts for judicial determination. Beyond the letter of such
consent, the courts may not go, no matter how beneficial they
may deem or in fact might be their possession of a larger
jurisdiction over the liabilities of the Government.
Until the organization of the Court of Claims by the act of
February 24, 1855, c. 122, 10 Stat. 612, the only recourse of
claimants was in an appeal to Congress. That act defines the
claims which could be submitted to the Court of Claims for
adjudication as follows:
"The said court shall hear and determine all claims founded
upon any law of Congress, or upon any regulation of an executive department, or upon any contract, express or implied, with
the government of the United States, which may be suggested
to it by a petition filed therein; and also all claims which may
be referred to said court by either house of Congress."

SCHILLINGER v. UIITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

By the act of March 3, 1863, c. 92, 12 Stat. 765, this additional jurisdiction was given:
"That the said court
. .
shall also have jurisdiction
of all set-offs, counter-claims, claims for damages, whether
liquidated or unliquidated, or other demands whatsoever, on
the part of the government against any person making claim
against the g6vernment in said court."
On March 3, 1887, 24: Stat. 505, c. 359, a new act was passed
in reference to the jurisdiction of the court, its language being
as follows:
"The Court of Claims shall have jurisdiction to hear and
determine the following matters :
"First. All claims founded upon the Constitution of the
United States or any law of Congress, except for pensions, or
upon any regulation of an Executive Department, or upon
any contract, expressed or implied, with the Government of the
United States,-or for damages, liquidated or unliquidated, in
cases not sounding in tort, in respect of which claims the party
would be entitled to redress against the United States either
in a court of law, equity, or admiralty if the United States
were suable......
"Second. All set-offs, counter-claims, claims for damages,
whether liquidated or unliquidated, or other demands whatsoever on the part of the Government of the United States
against any claimant against the Government in said court."
Under neither of these statutes had or has the Court of
Claims any jurisdiction of claims against the government for
mere torts; some element of contractual liability must lie at
the foundation of every action. โข In Gibbons v. Urnited 8tates,
8 Wall. 269, 275, it was said: "The language of the statutes
which confer jurisdiction upon the Court.of Claims, excludes
by the strongest implication demands against the government
founded on torts. The general principle which we have already
stated as applicable to all governments, forbids, on a policy
imposed by necessity, that they should hold themselves liable
for unauthorized wrongs inflicted by/ their officers on the
citizen, though occurring while engaged in the discharge of
official duties." And, again, in Morgan v. United States, 11

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Wall. 531, 534: "Congress has wisely reserved to itself the
right to give or withhold relief where the claim is founded on
the wrongful proceedings of an officer of the government."
The rule thus laid down has been consistently followed by
this court in many cases up to and including the recent case
of Hill v. United States, 149 U. S. 593, 598.
If there was-any error in this interpretation, first announced
in 1868, of the scope of the act, and if it was the intent of
Congress to grant to the court jurisdiction over actions against
the government for torts, an amending statute of but a few"
words would have corrected the error and removed all doubt.
While the language of the act of 1887 is broader than that of
1855, it is equally clear in withholding such jurisdiction. It
added, ".all claims founded upon the Constitution of the United
States," but that does not include claims founded upon torts,
any more than "all claims fouided upon any law of Congress"
found in the prior act. The identity of the descriptive words
excludes the thought of any change.
It is said that the Constitution forbids the taking of private property for public uses without just compensation; that
therefore every appropriation of private property by any official to the uses of the government, no matter however wrongfully made, creates a claim founded upon the Constitution of
tue United States and within the letter of the grant in the act
of 1887 of the jurisdiction to the Court of Claims. If that
argument be good, it is equally good applied to every other
provision of the Constitution as well as to every law pf Congress. This prohibition of the taking of private property for
public use without compensation is no more sacred than that
other constitutional provision that no person shall be deprived
of life, liberty, or property without due process of law. Can
it be that Congress intended that every wrongful arrest and
detention of an individual, or seizure of his property by an
officer of the government, should expose it to an action for
damages in the Court of Claims? If any such breadth of jurisdiction was contemplated, language which had already been
given a restrictive meaning would have been carefully avoided.
It is true also that to jurisdiction over claims founded "upon

SCHILLINGER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

any contract, expressed or implied, with the government of the
United States," is added jurisdiction over claims "for damages,
liquidated or unliqiidated," but this grant is limited by the
provision "in cases not sounding in tort." This limitation,
even if qualifying only the clause immediately preceding,
and not extending to the entire grant of jurisdiction found in
the section, is a clear endorsement of the frequent ruling of
this court that cases sounding in tort are not cognizable in the
Court of Clains.
That this action is one sounding in tort is clear. It is in
form one to recover damages. The petition charges a wrongful
appropriation by the government, against the protest of the
claimants, and prays to recover the damages done by such
wrong. The successive allegations place the parties in continned antagonism to each other, and there is no statement
tending to show a coming together of minds in respect to
anything. It is plainly and solely an action for an infringement, and in this connection reference may be made to the
statutory provision (Rev. Stat. ยง 4919) of an action on the case,
as the legal remedy for the recovery of damages for the
infringement of a patent. If it be said that a party may
sometimes waive a tort and .sue in assumpsit, as on an implied
promise, it is technically a sufficient reply to say that these
claimants have not done so. They have not counted on any
promise, either express or implied.
But we do not care to rest our decision upon the mere form
of action. The transaction as stated in the petition, and as
disclosed by the findings of the court, was a tort pure and
simple. The case was, within the language of the statute, one
"sounding in tort." It is in this respect essentially different
from rnited States v. Palmer, 128 U. S. 262, 269. That was
an action to recover for the authorized use of a patent by
the government, and these observations in the opinion are
pertinent:
"This is not a claim for an infringement, but a claim of
compensation for an authorized use-two things totally distinct in the law, as distinct as trespass on lands is from use
and occupation under a lease. The first sentence in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

original opinion of the court below strikes the key-note of the
argument on this point. It is as follows: 'The claimant in
this case invited the government to adopt his patented infantry equipments, and the government did so. It is conceded on both sides that there was no infritrgement of the
claimant's patent, and that whatever the government did was
done with the consent of the patentee and under his implied
license.' We think that an implied contract for compensation fairly arose under the license to use, and the actual use,
little or much, that ensued thereon."
Here the claimants never authorized the use of the patent
right by the government; never consented to, but always
protested against it, threatening to interfere by injunction or
other proceedings to restrain such use. There was no act of
Congress in terms directing, or even by implication suggesting, the use of the patent. iNo officer of the g6vernment
directed its use, and the contract which was executed by
Cook did not name or describe it. There was no recognition
by the government or any of its officers of the fact that in
the construction of the pavement fhere was any use of the
patent, or that any appropriation was being made of claimant's property. The government proceeded as though it were
acting only in the management of its own property and the
exercise of its own rights, and without any trespass upon the
rights of the claimants. There was no point in the whole
transaction from its commencement to its close where the
minds of the parties met or where there was anything in the
semblance of an agreement. So not only does the petition
count upon a tort, but also the findings show a tort. That is
the essential fact underlying the transaction and upon which
rests every pretence of a right to recover. There was no suggestion of a waiver of the tort or a pretence of any implied
contract until after the decision of the Court of Claims that it
had no jurisdiction over an action to recover for the tort.
It may be well to notice some of the cases in which the
jurisdiction of the Court of Claims over implied contracts has
been sustained. In the case of United States v. Russell, 13
Wall. 623, 626, which was an action to recover for the use of

SCHILLINGER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

certain steamers, the property of the claimant, it was found
as a fact "That in the case of each of these sfeamers, at the times
when the same were respectivel~y taken into the service of the
United States, the officers acting for the United' States, did
not intend to 'avpropriate' these steamers to the United States,
nor even their services; but they did intend to conpel the
captains and crews with such steamers to performz the services
needed, and to pay a reasonable compensation for such services, and such was the understanding of the claimant; and
that each of said steamers, so soon as the services for which
they were respectively required had been performed, were
returned to the excltisive possession and control of the
claimant."
Thus it appears that the minds of the claimants and the
officers acting for the government met; both intended a contract; and the power of the officers to act for the government in the premises not being disputed, it was obviously
just to treat the case as one of contract and not of tort. So
also in the case of United States v. Great Falls Manufacturing Company, 112 U. S. 645. The appropriation of the
claimants' property was under direct legislative enactment
by Congress. The property thus appropriated- was confessedly the property of the claimants, to which the government made no pretence of title. The claimants assented to
such appropriation; entered into arbitration proceedings to
determine the amount due them therefor. Hence all the
elements of contract were found in the transaction.
But there is still another aspect in which this case may be
considered. The patent of Schillinger runs to the mode of
constructing concrete pavements. The mere form 6f a pavement with free joints, that is, in separate blocks, is not since
the filing of his disclaimer within the scope.of his patent. It
may be that the process or mode by which Cook, the contractor; constructed the pavement in the Capitol grounds was
,that described in and covered by the Schillinger patent. - He
may, therefore, have been an infringerby. using that process
or mode in the construction of the pavement, and liable to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Shiras, JJ.

claimants for the damages they have sustained in consequence
thereof. It may be conceded, also, that the government, as
having at least consented to the use by Cook of such process
or method in the construction of the pavement, is also liable
for damages as a joint tort feasor. But what property of the
claimants has the government appropriated? It has, and uses,
the pavement as completed in the Capitol grounds, but there
is no pretence of a patent on the pavement as a completed
structure. When a contractor, in the execution of his contract,
uses any patented tool, machine, or process, and the government accepts the work done under such contract, can it be said
to have appropriated and be in possession of any property of
the patentee in such a sense that the patentee may waive the
tort and sue as on an implied promise? The contractor may
have profited by the use of the tool, machine, or process, but
the :vork, as completed and enjoyed by the government, is the
same as though done by a different and unpatented process,
tool, or machine. Take, for illustration, a pat ented hammer
or trowel. If a contractor in driving nails or laying bricks
use such patented tools, does any patent right pass into the
building and become a part of it, so that he who takes the
building can be said to be in the possession and enjoyment of
such patent right? Even if it be conceded that Cook, in the
doing of this work, used tar paper, or its equivalent, to separate
the blocks of concrete, and thus finally completed a concrete
pavement in detached blocks or sections, was such completed
pavement any different from what it would have been if the
separation between the blocks had been accomplished in some
other way; and is the government now in possession or enjoyment of anything embraced within the patent? Do the facts,
as stated in the petition or as found by the court, show anything more than a wrong done, and can this be adjudged other
than a case "soundinr in tort" ?
We think not, and therefore the judgment of the Court of
Claims is
Affirmed.
MR. JusTICE HARLAN, with whom concurred MR. J USTicE
SHIRAS, dissenting.

SCHILLINGER v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Shiras, JJ.

I am constrained to withhold my assent to the opinion and
judgment in this case.
The United States granted tb Schillinger in 1870 a patent
for an alleged new and useful improvement in concrete pavements. That patent was surrendered, and a new one issued
in 1871 based on amended specifications. The present suit
against the United States proceeds upon the ground that in a
pavement constructed in the Capitol grounds, under the supervision of the Architect of the Capitol, the United States
knowingly obtained and still enjoys the benefit of the improvement covered by the Schillinger patent.
Can a suit be maintained against the United States in the
Court of Claims, as upon contract, for the reasonable value of
such-use of the patentee's improvement?
In James v. Campbell, 101 U. S. 356, 357, this court said:
"That the government of the United States, when it grants
letters patent for a new invention or discovery in the arts,
confers upon the patentee an exclusive property in the patented invention which cannot be appropriated or used by the
government itself, without just compensation, any more than
it can appropriate or use, without compensation, land which
has been patented to a private purchaser, we have no doubt.
The Constitution gives .to Congress power 'to promote the
progress of science and useful arts by securing for limited
times to authors and inventors the exclusive right to their
respective writings and discoveries,' which could not be
affected if the government had a reserved right to publish
such writings or to use such inventions without the consent of
the owner. Many inventions relate to subjects which can
only be properly used by the government, such as explosive
shells, rams, and submarine batteries to be attached to armed
vessels. If it could use such inventions without compensation, the inventors could get no return at all for their discoveries and experiments."
United States v. Great Falls Manufacturing Co., 112 U. S.
645, 656, was a suit in the Court of Claims to obtain compensation for all past and future use and occupation by the United
States of certain lands, water rights and privileges claimed by

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Shiras, JJ.

the plaintiff and taken for public use by the agents of the
governinent. This court said: "The making of the improvements necessarily involves the taking of the property; and
if, for the want of formal proceedings for its condemnation
to public use, the claimant was entitled, at the beginning of
the work, to have the agents of the government enjoined from
prosecuting it until provision was made for securing in some
way payment of the compensation required by the Constitution - upon which question we express no opinion - there is
no sound reason why the claimant might not waive that right
and, electing to regard the action of the government as a
taking under its sovereign right of eminent domain, demand
just compensation. K~ohl v. United States, 91 U. S. 367, 374.
In that view, we are of opinion that the United States having,
by its agents, proceeding under the authority of Congress,
taken the property of the claimant for public use, are under
an obligation imposed by the Constitution to make compensation. The law will imply a promise to make the required
compensation where property, to which the government
asserts no title, is taken pursuant to an act of Congress as
private property to be applied for public uses. Such an implication being consistent with the constitutional duty of the government, as well as with common justice, the claimant's cause
of action is one that arises out of implied contract within
the meaning of the statute which confers jurisdiction iipon
the Court of Claims of actions 'founded upon any contract,
express or implied, with the government of the United States.'"
In Great Falls 1fanufacturing Co. v. Attorney General, 124:
U. S. 581, 597, 598, it appeared that the Secretary of War
was authorized by an act of Congress to take possession of
premises that might be covered by a survey and map directed
to be made. He took possession of property and water rights
that were alleged not to be embraced in such survey and map;
and it was contended that in so doing he was guilty of trespass. This court said: "If the Secretary of War, who was
invested with large discretion in determining what land was
actually required to-accomplish m the best manner the object
Congress bad in view, found it necessary to take, and has

SCHILLINGER v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Shiras, JJ.

taken and used, and still holds, lands of the plaintiff for the
proposed dam, which happen not to be covered by the survey
and map, the United States are as much bound to make just
compensation therefor as if such lands had been actually
embraced in that survey and map." After observing that it
must not be understood as holding that the Secretary could
bind the United States to pay for lands taken by him which
manifestly had no substantial connection with the improvement under his charge, the court said: "It is sufficient to say
that the record discloses nothing, showing that he has taken
more land than was reasonably necessary for the purposes
described in the act of Congress, or that he did not honestly
and reasonably exercise the discretion with which he was
invested; and, consequently, the government is under a constitutional obligation to make compensation for any property
or property-right taken, used, and held by him for the purposes indicated in the act of Congress, whether it is embraced
or described in said survey or map, or not. United States v.
Great Falls .Mantfacturing Co., 112 U. S. 645, 646:.
Even if the Secretary's survey and map and the publication of
the Attorney General's notice did not, in strict law, justify the
former in taking possession of the land and water rights in
question, it was competent for the company to waive the tort
and proceed against the United States, as upon an implied
contract, it appearing, as it does here, that the government
recognizes and retains the possession taken in its behalf for
the public -purposes 'indicated in the act under which its
officers have proceeded."
In Hollister v. Benedict Manufacturing Co., 113 U. S. 59,
67, the principles laid down in James v. 0ampbell, and in
United States v. Great Falls .ManufacturingCo., above cited,
were recognized and approved. And in United States v.
Palmer, 128 U. S. 262, 269, the decision was that the United
States was liable to suit in ,the Court of Claims, as upon implied contract, for the value of the use of an invention which
was used with the consent of the patentee.
It may, therefore, be regarded as settled that the government may be sued in the Court of Claims, as upon implied

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Shiras, JJ.

contract, not only for the value of specific property taken for
public use by an officer acting under the authority of the government, even if the taking was originally without the consent
of the owner and without legal proceedings for condemnation,
but for the value of the use of a patented invention when such
use was with the consent of the patentee.
at the case from the standpoint
It seems to me -looking
of mere contract -that these principles control the present
inquiry, and sustain the right of the claimant to sue the government for the value of the use of his alleged invention.
Congress made an appropriation of two hundred thousand
dollars "for improvement of Capitol grounds according to the
plans and under the general direction of Frederick Law Olinsted, to be expended by the Architect of the Capitol." Act
of June 23, 1874, c. 455, 18 Stat. 201, 214. The Architect invited proposals for laying concrete pavement required for the
proposed improvement according to those plans and specifications and one Cook was the lowest bidder. His bid was
accepted.
Schillinger protested against the contract being
awarded to Cook, the latter having no right to use the Schillinger patent. He gave notice to the Architect of his patented
rights. It was found by the Court of Claims that "at the
time the bids were opened plaintiff protested to the Architect
against the award being made to any one but his associate
Roberts [who was entitled to use the Sthillinger invention];
but the Architect and his advising engineers decided they
would award the contract to the lowest bidder, on the ground
that as the validity of the Schillinger patent had not been
tested at law or in equity they could not decide whether it
was valid or not, and that the interest of the government, in
their judgment, would be best subserved by giving the contract to the lowest bidder, taking a bond to protect the govIn the
ernment from the suit threatened by claimant."
contract between the government' represented by the Architect of the Capitol, and Cook, for a concrete pavement, according to the Olmsted plans and specifications, it was provided
"that in the event of any legal proceedings being taken by
other parties against the contractor of the United States for

SCHILLINGE R v. UNITED STATES.

177

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Shiras, JJ.

the infringement of any patent or claimed patent during execution of the work the contractor shall hold the United States
harmless."
All this shows that the Architect of the Capitol was aware
of the existence of the Schillinger patent. He did not dispute
Schillinger's rights under the patent, nor did he, as the representative of the government, claim that the patent was invalid,
nor if valid that the government could get the benefit of it
in the contemplated improvement without compensating the
patentee. On the contrary he, in effect, recognized a right
to such compensation, if the patent was valid, and took a bond
from the contractor for the protection of the government in
the event of a suit against the contractor that would interfere
with the use of the Schillinger invention in the pavement in
the public grounds. But no such suit appears to have been
brought. The patentee had the right to waive any suit
against the contractor or the Architect that would interfere
with the prosecution of the work, and look to the obligation
of the government to make him just compensation for the use
of his invention. It was so ruled in the Great ]FallM case.
The authority of that case is not here disputed. As the government had granted the patent, the purpose to commit a tort
cannot be imputed to the Architect as the agent of the United
States. His action meant no more than that he would leave
the questioil of the obligation of the United States to make
compensation for the use of the Schillinger patent to depend
upon a decision by the courts as to its validity.
Under the authority -given by Congress to e:tpend the
money appropriated in improving the Capitol grounds according to specified plans, the Architect of.the Capitol had a large
discretion, and was authorized, so far as the government was
concerned, to use in such imprbvement any patented invention that those plans. would require,, or that would best subserve the public interests, subject of course to the constitutional
obligation to miake just compensation t. the inventor. The
Constitution imposing that obligation is a covenant between
the government and every citizen whose property is appropriated by it for public use. If- Schillinger's patent was valid,
VOL. CLV-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Shiras, JJ.

then the government is bound by an obligation of the highest
character to compensate him for the use of his invention, and
its use by the government cannot be said to arise out of mere
tort, at least when its representative did not himself dispute,
nor assume to decide, the validity of the patent. If the act
of Congress under which the Architect proceeded had, in
express terms, directed him to use Schillinger's invention in
any pavement laid down in the public grounds, then such use,
according to the decision in Urnited States v. Gi'eatFalls lanufacturing Co., would have made a case of implied contract
based on the constitutional obligation to make just compensation for private property taken for public use. But such a
case is not distinguishable, in principle, from the present one,
where the Architect, proceeding under a general authority to
expend the public money according to specified plans, uses or
knowingly permits to be used a particular patented invention,
not disputing the rights of the patentee, but leaving the question of the validity of the patent, and the consequent liability
of the government for its use, to judicial determination.
I do not stop to discuss the question whether Schillinger's
patent was valid nor whether it was infringed by the mode
in which the pavement in question was constructed. Those
questions would have been here for determination if the court
below had assumed jurisdiction and decided the case upon its
merits. That court dismissed the, petition for want of jurisdiction on the ground simply that tnlere was no contract 3 express or implied, between the owner of the patent and the
government. It held that the appropriation or use of the
Schillinger invention was in the nature of a tort, and this conclusion rested upon the ground that the Architect of the Capitol denied that any private right existed uider the alleged
patent. But this was an error. There is no finding by the
court showing a denial of that character, even if it be assumed
that such a denial could be deemed of any consequence in view
of the constitutional obligation to make just compensation for
private property taken for public use.
I am of opinion that when tho government, by its agent,
knowingly uses or permits to be used for its benefit a valid

SCHILLINGER v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Shiras, JJ.

liable to suit in the Court of Claims
patented invention, it isfor the value of such use, and that its liability arises out of
contract based upon the constitutional requirement that private
property shall not be taken for public use without just compensation.
It is proper to say that the claimant in his petition does not
place the claim for compensation as distinctly upon the basis of
contract as he might have done. But as the opinion of the
court may be interpreted as proceeding upon the broad ground
that the government could not be sued, as upon contract express or implied, unless its agent at the time the invention was
used for its benefit recognized or admitted the validity of the
patent, I have thought it appropriate to state my view of that
question.
2. There is another view of the case which is independent
of mere contract. The act of March 3, 188,7, for the first time,
gives the Court of Claims jurisdiction to hear and determine
"all claims founded upon the Constitution of the United States."
If the Schillinger patent be valid, and if the invention described
in it has been used or appropriated by the government through
its agent charged with the improvement of the Capitol grounds,
then the patentee or those entitled to enjoy the exclusive rights
granted by it, are entitled to be compensated by the government. And the claim to have just compensation for such an
appropriation of private property to the public use is "founded
upon the Constitution of the United States." It is none the
less a claim of that character, even if the appropriation had its
origin in tort. The constitutional obligation cannot be evaded
by showing that the original appropriation was without the
express direction of the government, nor by simply interposing
a denial of the title of the claimant to the property or property rights alleged to have been appropriated. The questions
of title and appropriation are for judicial determination.
Those being decided in favor of the claimant, the Constitution requires a judgment in his favor. Ifthe claim here made
to be compensated for the use of a patented invention, is not
founded upon the Constitution of the United States, it would
be difficult to imagine one that would be of that character.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1894.
Syllabus.

As the agent of the government was moved to use the
Schillinger invention because the patent had not then been
established by the decision of any court, it may be stated that
it was subsequently sustained, as the findings below show, in
numerous cases, the earliest being California Artificial Stone
Paving (o v. Perine, 7 Sawyer, 190; S. C. 8 Fed. Rep. 821,
(1881,) Sawyer, J., and the latest being Hurlbut v. Schillinger,
130 U. S. 456.

I am authorized by MR. JUSTICE SHIRAs to say that he concurs in this opinion.

UNITED STATES v. BLACKFEATHER.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 622.

Argued October 24, 25, 194. -Decided

November 19, 1894.

This court is not called upon to consider errors assigned by an appellee
who has taken no appeal from the judgment below.
The findings of the court below touching the expenditures by the United
States to support and keep a blacksmith for the use of the Indians are
too indefinite to allow them to be made the subject of a set-ofE
The United States having undertaken by Article VII of the Treaty of
August 8, 1831, with the Shawnees to " expose to public sale to the
highest bidder" the lands ceded to them by the Shawnees, and having
disposed of a large part of the same at private sale, were thereby guilty
of a violation of trust; and as all public lands of the United States
were, by the act of April 24,,1820, c. 51, 3 Stat. 566, made open to entry
and sale at $1.25 an acre, the measure of damages for the violation is the
diflbrence between the amounts realized, and the statutory price.
Under the provisions of said treaty the Shawnees were entitled to interest
on such damages as an annuity.
The United States is not responsible to the Shawnees for moneys paid
under a treaty to guardians of orphans of the tribe, appointed by the
tribal council, who had embezzled the money when so paid.
Whether the Shawnees are entitled to recover in these proceedings money
embezzled by an Indian superintendent, quare.
There was no error in the action of the court below ordering a percentage
allowance to counsel.

