TALBERT v. UNITED STATES.
Counsel for Parties.

Accordingly it would seem plain that the rights of Robb
and Strong, trustees, were correctly asserted by Kebler in the
answer and cross-petition filed by him in the Gugenheim case,
and that, assuming that he was authorized to appear, the
decree in that case, directing the lands to be sold, and awarding to Robb and Strong, trustees, the said sum of $10,000
and interest out of the proceeds, was fully warraited. It
follows that, by the payient into court of the amount of the
principal and interest of tlie- money found to .bedue to Robb
and Strong, trustees, and by the conveyance to them by the
master of the lands in question, in pursuance of the decree, the
purchasers became vested with a fee-simple title to said lands.
The decree of the court below is accordingly

-Aflhmed.
MR.JUsTICE JACKSON and MR.JUSTICE WHITE, not having
heard the argument, took no part in the decision.

TALBERT v. -UNITED STATES.
UNITED STATES v. TALBERT.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIS.
los. 2N,25. Argued and submitted October 11, 12, 1834.-Decided October 15,1894.

A finding of fact by the Court of Claims, where there is nothing in the
other findings or elsewhere in the record which authorizes this court to
go behind that finding and conclude that there was error in respect
thereof, will not be reviewed here.

THE two causes were argued together.

The case is stated

in the opinion.
Mr. S. S. Henile for Talbert'in both cases.
Mrh. Assietant Attorney General Conrad for the United
States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

The court declined to hear him in No. 24, and in No. 25 he
submitted on his brief.
THE, CHiEF JUSTICE: This was a suit brought in the Court
of Claims under an act of Congress entitled "An act for the
relief of William Taljbert," approved June 30, 1886, and reading as follows: "That the claim of William Talbert, of
Montgomery County, Maryland, for the use by the government of his patented improvement for marine railways be,
and the same is hereby, referred to the Court of Claims, with
authority to take jurisdiction thereof, and to award judgment thereon, as the merits of the case may demand, according to its value to the government during the existence of
such patent." 24 Stat. 822, c. 591.
The court filed findings of fact and a conclusion of law;
rendered an opinion, reported in 25 C. C1. 141; and gave
judgment in claimant's favor for $6564.30, from which both
parties appealed, but argument is waived by the government
on its cross-appeal. Among the findings of fact was the
following: " VIII. The value to the government of plaintiff's patented improvement for marine railways during the
existence of his patent was $6564.30, being 2 per cent upon
the amount earned by the railway cradle as improved during
said period." On this appeal only questions of law can be
reviewed, and none such are presented for our consideration.
The contention is that the sum awarded was far less than it
should have been. But the eighth finding was one of fact,
and there is nothing in the other findings or elsewhere in the
record which authorizes us to go behind that finding and conclude that there was error in respect thereof.
Judgment aiffrmed.

