OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

another State, this court may be required to determine
whether that construction was or was not correct, upon the
ground that if it were concluded that the construction was
incorrect, it would follow that the state courts had refused to
give full faith and-credit to the statutes involved, our jurisdiction would be enlarged in a manner never heretofore believed
to have been contemplated." Grand GulfRailroad v. Afarshall, 12 How. 165; Cook County v. Calumet Canal & Dock
Co., 138 U. S. 635.
This record contains nothing to show, as matter of fact, that
the public acts of Ohio had by law or usage in Ohio any other
effect.than was given them by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky.
Writ of error dismissed.
MR. JUSTiCE HARLAN was of opinion that the writ of error
should be retained and the judgment affirmed.

ORIGET v. HEDDEN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 19. Argued October 10, 11, 1894. -Decided

December 8, 1894.

The remedy of an importer on a question of valuation is to call for a reappraisement; though, if his cc,.tention be that a jurisdictional .question
exists, he may make his protest, pointing out the defect, and stand upon
it as the ground of refusal to pay the increased duty.
What an importer's agent says to an assistant appraiser, or conversations
had subsequently to the appraisement, are not competent evidence in an
action like this.

The court below properly excluded a question propounded to the merchant
appraiser as to whether o not he and the general appraiser did not agree

to apply the valuation of one case in each invoice to the entire importation of which it was a ldart; and also the question whether or not those

goods in the several cases were all of the same character as to value.
Reappraisers may avail themselves of clerical assistance to average appraisements given by different experts, when it appears that it was for their
guidance only.

ORIGET v. HEDDEN.
Statement of the Case.
Under the plaintiff's protest the question is not open that Rev. Stat. ยง 2900
is unconstitutional in its provisions for fixing or authorizing 20 per cent
additional duty; but that question has been disposed of on its merits in
Passavant v. United States, 148 U. S. 214.
If an importer is afforded such notice of a reappraisement and hearing as
enables him to give his views and make his contention in respect of the
value of his goods, he cannot complain, even though he be not allowed
to be present throughout the proceedings on the reappraisement, or to
hear and examine all the testimony, or to cross-examine the witnesses.
It appeared in this case that the merchant appraiser exgmined the goods
sufficiently to satisfy him that they were the same order of goods that
his firm imported. Held, that this established the familiarity required
by the statute, and placed his qualifications as an expert beyond reasonable doubt.
An importer whose goods, in several packages, are sent by the collector to
the public store and are there examined, cannot take advantage of the
fact that the appraisers in making up their opinion did not examine
every case, unless it also appears that they were directed by the collector to make such examination of all, and failed to do so.

THIS was an action seasonably brought by Arthur Origet
against Edward L. iedden, then collector of the port of New
York, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York, to recover an alleged excess of duty
exacted by the collector upon goods imported by plaintiff on

February 8, 9, 17, and 23, 1886, (the last two importations
being by steamships Oregon and Chicago, respectively,) and
paid under protest.
The invoice and entered value of each of the four importations were raised by the appraisers to an amount exceeding
ten per cent thereof, and the collector liquidated and exacted
duty upon the value so increased-and the additional duty of
twenty per cent thereon menti6ned in section 2900 of the IRevised Statutes.
Upon the two entries of the eighth and ninth of February,
plaintiff did not call for any reappraisement, but protested
against the assessment of duty upon any values higher than
those declared on the entry, the protest stating that "said
valuations are correct, and that said goods are liable to no
more duty than would accrue upon said valuations, and that
the additional values were not legally ascertained; that the
appraiser made no proper or legal examination or appraise-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

ment of said goods; that he arbitrarily added to the values
upon an arbitrary and assumed basis of the cost thereof; that
in so doing he acted under instructions from special agents of
the Treasury and not upon his own knowledge or judgment,
and we specially protest against the additional duty of 20%,
claiming for the reasons aforesaid that it did not accrue and
said goods are not dutiable as charged."
On the trial plaintiff's New York manager testified that he
saw Brown, the assistant appraiser, regarding the appraisal
of these importations, and was then asked: "State whether or
not you said anything to Mr. Brown (and, if so, what) as to
the production of evidence as to the value of these goods?"
The question was objected to on the ground that the importer's
remedy, was to call for a reappraisement. The court thereupon excluded the question and plaintiff excepted. The witness then testified that he had conversed with the collector as
to a reappraisal, or a call for a reappraisal, of these first two
entries, and was asked what the conversation was. To this
the defendant objected, because it was not claimed in the protest that any reappraisal was called for and refused. The
question was excluded and plaintiff excepted.
The record thus proceeded: "Upon the two later importations, of February 17th and 23d, per the Oregon and the City
of Chicago, reappraisements were called for and had. The
Oregon importation consisted of four cases, and the other of
three cases, all of which (both importations) were by the collector ordered to the public store, and were there at the time
of the reappraisements."
The merchant appraiser was then called as a witness by
plaintiff, and testified: "I did not examine one case. I
merely looked over the goods. Q. You did not examine any
case? A. Not specially; not to appraise it." But he explained on cross-examination that he examined the goods in
one case out of each importation sufficiently to satisfy himself
that the goods were of the same order as those imported by
the firm of which he was a member; that the average of the
different valuations of the witnesses was made up in his office
by another person at his direction; "that the report of the

ORIGET v. HEDDEN.
Statement of the Case.

appraisal was based upon that computation and the witnesses'
reports;" and that the general appraiser sat with the witness
"in the reappraisal, in the writing up of the reappraisal."
The following question was then propounded by plaintiff's
counsel: "What I ask you is, Mr. Brower being the general
appraiser and sitting with you on the reappraisal, was there
or not any agreement (and, if any, what?) as to the application
of the valuation of one case on each invoice to the entire importation?" This was objected to, the question excluded,
and plaintiff excepted.
The witness also testified that the general appraiser in examining the goods "simply passed and looked at them to see
that they were woollens - he was not competent to judge of
their value - to see that they corresponded with the invoices."
He further said that the general appraiser generally went
with him in examining the goods, but what he did when
witness was not present he did not know; that after the computations were made, the general appraiser and himself had
a joint session, in which they made up their reports.
Plaintiff's manager was asked in reference to the goods
reappraised: "State whether or not those goods in the several
cases were all of the same character as to value? " The witness
testified to the presence of a Treasury agent at the reappraisement, and was asked: "Did you bear any of the questions put
to the witness? " The witness was also asked if the Treasury
agent did not himself put questions to him on that examination. These questions were-severally objected to as immaterial and were excluded by the court, and plaintiff excepted,
but only the exception to the fist was argued.
When the reappraisement was about to take place, plaintiff's
counsel, Mr. Clarke, was present and made application to the
appraisers "to be present to examine the schedules of the
different witnesses, to ask them questions, or to suggest
questions to you to be asked them, and hear and know the
testimony which you have or may receive," and, if this
request be denied, that plaintiff and his associate in business
"be present when the witnesses are examined in the case of
Origet, and that one of them be allowed to see the schedules
of the witnesses."

OCTOBER TERM, 1894i
Statement of the Case.

To which the general and merchant appraisers responded
that they denied the application of the attorney to be present,
but desired to hear the importers in regard to their reappraisements, and that they would be glad to have any suggestions
that they might have to make as to asking questions of
witnesses.
The record then gives the following statement by the general
appraiser: "Ar. Clarke further asks that they may be permitted
to examine the various affidavits made by the experts, importers, merchants, and others, and also to be present at the
taking of any testimony herein, and to cross-examine all such
witnesses as may be produced here on this reappraisement, or
to suggest questions to the general appraiser.
"The general appraiser and the merchant appraiser say, in
regard to that, they cannot permit the importers to be present during the taking of the testimony or the examination
of the affidavits, but they will be glad to receive suggestions
from the importers in asking any questions of any and all who
may be called."
The request was then renewed so that plaintiff might "be
enabled to suggest questions," and disposed of by the same
ruling.
Plaintiff protested against the assessment and exaction of
duties upon the values ascertained by the reappraisements
upon the grounds: That the goods were "liable to no greater
amount of duty than that accruing upon the invoice or entered
value thereof;" that the appraiser's return "was made contrary to law and without legal or proper examination of the
goods';" that plaintiff "was entitled to a reappraisement of
said goods, according to law, by a general and merchant
appraiser, and made due demand therefor;" that "notwithstanding said demand for reappraisement, no legal reappraisement of said merchandise was ever had ;" that the so called
reappraisement "was illegally conducted and was not a valid
reappraisement, according to which duties might be assessed,
in this, that the general appraiser, George V. Brower, did not
act upon his knowledge or .judgment of the goods, but permitted his judgment and return of value to be controlled and

ORIGET v. HEDDEN.
Statement of the Case.

dictated by special agents of the Treasury; that he did not
personally examine and appraise the merchandise," nor did
the merchant appraiser; that the general appraiser refused to
allow plaintiff to be represented by counsel or allow counsel
to be present to examine the schedules of the different witnesses, to ask them questions, or to suggest questions to be
asked, or to hear or know the testimony received; that the
appraiser refused to allow plaintiff and his associate to be
present at the examination of witnesses, or to see the schedules;
that the general appraiser permitted special agents of the
Treasury and business rivals to attend; that after the proceedings on the first day the general appraiser called other witnesses and parties to estimate the value of the goods without
giving plaintiff notice; that in arriving at the valuation returned,. the appraisers took the average of the valuations of
the witnesses without regard to their competency or knowledge of the goods; that "witnesses were permitted to return
schedules of the value of all the goods without an examination thereof by them;" that such schedules were considered
by the merchant and general appraiser; and some other
particulars.
Testimony was given as to the difference between the duties
upon the goods as entered and the duties exacted.
The foregoing was all the evidence adduced in the case, the
defendant offering no testimony.
The case was tried before Lacombe, J., and a jury. A verdict was directed in favor of the collector, and plaintiff brought
error to the judgment rendered thereon.
The following are sections of the Revised Statutes particularly referred to:
"SEc. 2901. The collector shall designate on the invoice at
least one package of every invoice, and one package at least
of every ten packages of merchandise, and a greater number,
should he or either of the appraisers deem it necessary, imported into such port, to be opened, examined and appraised,
and shall order the package so designated to the public stores
for examination; and if any package be found by the appraisers to contain any article not specified in the invoice, and

OCTOBER TERTM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

they or a majority of them shall be of opinion that such article
was omitted in the invoice with fraudulent intent on the part
of the shipper, owner or agent, the contents of the entire
package in which the article may be, shall be liable to seizure
and forfeiture on conviction thereof before any court of competent jurisdiction; but if the appraisers shall be of opinion
that no such fraudulent intent existed, then the value of such
article shall be added to the entry, and the duties thereon
paid accordingly, and the same shall be delivered to the in
porter, agent or consignee. Such forfeiture may, however,
be remitted by the Secretary of the Treasury on the production
of evidence satisfactory to him that no fraud was intended."
"S.Ec. 2939. The collector of the port of New York shall
not, under any circumstances, direct to be sent for examination and appraisement less than one package of every invoice,
and one package at least out of every ten packages of merchandise, and a greater number should he, or the appraiser,
or any assistant appraiser, deem it necessary. When the
Secretary of the Treasury, however, from the character and
descriition of the merchandise, may be of the opinion that
the examination of a less proportion of packages will amply
protect the revenue, he may, by special regulation, direct a
less number of packages to be examined."
MXr. Edwin B. Smith for plaintiff in error.
-Mr. Assidsant Attorney General Whitney for defendants in
error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE

FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
1. Certain rulings of the court in respect of the exclusion
of evidence are complained of, but we fail to discover any
error therein.
In reference to the first two importations, plaintiff's manager was asked what he said to the assistant appraiser as to
the production of evidence of the value of the goods, and what

ORIGET v. HEDDEN.
Opinion of the Court.

the conversation was which he had with the collector about a
reappraisal or a call for a reappraisal. The objections of the
district attorney were that the importer's remedy for any
defect or informality was to call for a reappraisement, and
that the protest was insufficient. Undoubtedly the remedy
of the importer on the question of valuation simply is to call
for a reappraisement, though if his contention is that a jurisdictional defect exists, he can make his protest, pointing out
the defect, and stand upon it as the ground of refusal to pay
the increased duty. It was. not claimed in the protest that
any reappraisal was called for and refused. It does not seem
to us that what plaintiff's agent said to an assistant appraiser,
or conversations had subsequently to the appraisement, could
be competent, and, even if this might be so, there is no explanation in the record as to what evidence plaintiff sought to
elicit. No offer of proof was made, nor did the questions
clearly admit of an answer favorable to plaintiff on a matter
manifestly relevant to the issue. Buckstaff v. Russell, 151
U. S. 626, 636. No reason was given for the exclusion of the
questions, and as it does not appear that plaintiff was, deprived
of any right by that exclusion, we cannot hold that error was
committed.
The court excluded a question propounded to the merchant
appraiser as to whether or not he and the general appraiser
did not agree to apply the valuation of one case 'in each
invoice to the entire importation of which it was a part.
This was correct. If it were obligatory to open and examine
all the cases, the evidence was immaterial, for it was conceded
that all were not opened auid examined. If the examination
of one case in each invoice was sufficient, then the application
of the valuation of that case to the entire importation of which
it formed a part was proper.
The question 1 whether or not those goods in the several
cases were all of the same character as to value," was also
excluded. As the question covered both the importations, and
the appraisers examined one case of each, it was immaterial.
If there was a difference between the goods in the different
cases of either importation, it is singular that the invoices are

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

not set forth in the record. The inference is a reasonable one
that they showed the goods in each importation to be of the
same character and value, so that the examination of one case
would be sufficient for all. There is nothing to indicate the
contrary.
Some objection is made because the reappraisers availed
themselves of clerical assistance to average the appraisements
given by the different expert witnesses who appeared before
them, but the merchant appraiser testified "it was for guidance
simply. The report of the appraiser, signed by the witness,
was based upon that computation and the witnesses' reports."
No exception seems to have been taken in reference to this
matter, probably for want of legal basis.
2. Plaintiff made the point in the argument upon defendant's motion to have a verdict directed in his favor, that
section 2900 of the Revised Statutes "was unconstitutional
in its provisions for fixing or authorizing a twenty per cent
additional duty." The court expressed the opinion that this
point was not open under plaintiff's protest, and this would
seem to be so, but the question has been disposed of on its
merits in Passavantv. United States, 148 U. S. 214.
3. The contention that the importer has the right to be
present throughout the proceedings on the reappraisement;
hear or examine all the testimony; and cross-examine the
witnesses, which was passed on in Aufrnordt v. Redden, 137
U. S. 310, is renewed in this case.
The importer appeared at the opening of the reappraisal
and made application that he or his associate, or his counsel,
might examine the various affidavits made by experts, importers, merchants and others; be present at the taking of
any testimony, and cross-examine all witnesses produced, or
suggest questions to the general appraiser. The appraisers
ruled that they could not accede to this request, but expressed
their desire to hear the importers in regard to their reappraisements, and their assurance of appreciation of any suggestions
the importers might make as to asking questions of the witnesses. The presumption in favor of official action sustains
this ruling as being in accordance with the rules and regula-

ORIGET v. HEDDEN.
Opinion of the Court.

tions established by the Secretary of the Treasury, under section 2949 of the Revised Statutes, to secure a just, faithful

and impartial appraisal of all merchandise imported into the
United States, and just.and proper entries of the actual market value or wholesale price thereof ; and this was indeed the
fact, as appears by reference to the general regulations of
1884 and instructions of June 9, 1885, given at length in
Aufmordt v. Hedden.
The following quotation from the instructions of 1885 will
suffice to explain the reasons for the rule: "The law provides
that the merchant appraiser shall be familiar with the character and value of the goods in question, and it is presumed
that the general appraiser will have or will acquire such expert
knowledge of the goods he is to appraise as to. enable him to
intelligeiltly perfbrm his official duty with a due regard for
therights of all parties and independently of the testimony of
interested witnesses. The functions of the reappraising board
are the same as those of the original appraisers. They are
themselves to appraise the goods, and not to depend for their
information upon the appraisement of so-called experts in the
line of goods in question.

.

.

.

Appraisers are authorized

to summon witnesses, but there is no authority for the public
examination of such witnesses or their cross-examination by
importers or counsel employed by such importers. The appraising officers are entitled to all information obtainable
concerning the foreign market value of goods under consideration, but such information is not public property. It is due
to merchants and others called to give such information that
their statements shall be taken in the presence of official persons only. It must often occur that persons in possession of
facts which would be of value to the appraisers in determining market values are deterred from appearing or testifying
by the pulicity given to reappraisement proceedings."
As already stated, plaintiff in the case at bar was invited
by the appraisers to present his views in regard to the reappraisement an4 to suggest questions to be put to the witnesses.
He did not avail himself of the opportunity, but insisted on
the right to remain throughout the pioceedings, to be informed

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

as to all the evidence, and to cross-examine the witnesses as
in open court. This, according to Affrnordt v. Redden, and
Passavantv. United.States, could not be conceded. In those
cases it was ruled that under the revenue system of the United
States the question of the dutiable value of imported articles
is not to be tried before the appraisers, as if it were an issue
in a suit in a judicial proceeding; that such is not the intention of the statutes; that the practice has been to the contrary
from the earliest history of the government, and that the provisions of the statute in this behalf are open to no constitutional objection.
As respects taxation and assessment for local improvements.
such notice and hearing as are appropriate to the nature of the
case and afford the opportunity to assert objections to the
methods pursued or to the amount charged, are deemed sufficient for the protection of the individual. Lent v. Tillson, 140
U. S. 316, 327.
Duties imposed under tariff laws'are paid in order that goods
may be brought into the country, and provisions in respect of
their levy and collection are framed in view of the character
of the transaction. The finality of the appraisal is a condition
attending the importation prescribed by the government as
essential to the operation of the system, and if the importer is
afforded such notice and bearing as enables him to give his
views and make his contention in respect of the value of his
goods, he cannot complain.
4. It is further claimed that the examination of the goods
was not such as to qualify the merchant appraiser to act, that is,
that he did not examine with sufficientcare the cases of goods
which he did examine. It is not denied that he was "a discreet and experienced merchant," but that he was "familiar
with the character and value of the goods in question," as
prescribed by section 2930, appears to be questioned on the
ground of carelessness in investigation. His testimony-in-chief
was not happily expressed ; yet, on cross-examination, it clearly
and distinctly appeared that he examined the goods in one case
out of each importation sufficiently to satisfy him that they
were the same order of goods that his firm imported. This

ORIGET v. RIEDDEN.
Opinion of the Court.

established the familiarity required by the statute ' and placed
his qualifications as an expert beyond reasonable doubt. We
agree with the Circuit Court that the verdict of a jury, controlled by the theory that such an expert was not qualified
for appraising the goods, could not have been sustained.
5. The stress of the argument is laid, however,, upon the
proposition that all the seven packages were not examined.
The argument is that the collector deemed it necessary under
section 2939 that all the cases should be examined, and, therefore, directed them all to be sent to the public store "for
examination and appraisement;" 'that it thus became the
imperative duty of the appraisers to examine every one of the
cases; 'and that as they examined but one out of each invoice,
or only two out of the seven, thee was a want of examination
fatal to the appraisement. On behalf of the government it is
argued that sections 2901 and 2939 were intended f6r the benefit of the government and not of the.importer; but although
that-was the 'primary intention, we are not inclined to deny
ihat it might happen where the collector had given specific
direction for the examination of more than one package out of
ten, and the importer had relied on the direction, the omission
to examine the number of packages directed might under some
circumstances be availed of by him as constituting a want of
the examination to which he was entitled. We can suppose
a case in which the importer might truthfully contend that he
did not request the more extensi.ve examination because of the
direction, and did not demand the full execution of the direction because of the rightful assumption on his part that it
would be so executed, and his ignorance that it was not. The
objection would be exceedingly technical where there was
nothing to indicate that any injury could, have ensued, as
where there was no reasonable basis for the claim that one
package differed in intrinsic value from another; but giving
it the full force insisted on, it is clear enough that a case in
which it would be applicable could not arise unless it appeared
that the collector had given such direction. And in that particular. this record is deficient. What the record shows is that
the seven cases "were by the collector ordered to the public

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

store, and that they were there at the time of the reappraisements;" but it does not affirmatively show that the collector
deemed it necessary that all the cases should be examined,
while, as a matter of convenience, by having all sent there,
(and there were but seven,) the general appraiser and the merchant appraiser could open and examine each case if either of
them deemed it necessary, or if the importer desired them to
do so, or informed them that the packages differed in value.
The collector could have directed all the cases to be opened
and examined, or either of the appraisers could have done it;
but it would be going an inadmissible length to hold that the
mere fact that the cases were sent to the public store necessarily amounted to a specific direction by the collector that all
should be examined, and if all were not, (although the appraisers did not deem it necessary and no demand by the importer
to have them all sent there for that purpose was shown,) that
jurisdiction failed and the reappraisement was illegal. We are
of opinion that the Circuit Court rightly directed a verdict for
the defendant.
Judgment affirrned.
MUSER v. MAGONE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES

FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. ST. Argued October 25, 1894. -Decided

December 3,1894.

The valuation of imported merchandise by designated officials is conclusive
in the absence of fraud, when the official has power to make it.
In case of disagreement between the general appraiser and the merchant
appraiser in regard to the true market value of imported goods, the
decision of the collector is final and fixes the valuation.
In this case the appraisers evidently considered that the market value of
the goods could be satisfactorily ascertained by the method which they
pursued, and their determination, in the absence of fraud cannot be

impeached by requiring them to disclose the reasons which impelled their
conclusions, or proving remarks made by them.

The dutiable market value of goods is to be determined by their general
market value, without regard to special advantages which the importer

may enjoy; and in ascertaining that value, it is proper in some instances

