STATE OF INDIANA v. GLOVER.
Statement of the Case.

tion is being repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States, then we have a case in which is "drawn in question the
validity of . . . an authority exercised under the United
States."

INDIANA ex rel. STANTON v. GLOVER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 57. Argued and submitted November 6,

I. - Decided January 7, 1835.

A Circuit Court has jurisdiction of a suit brought in the name of the State
in which the circuit is situated, on the relation of a citizen of another
State, to enforce the obligations of a bond given by citizens of the State
in which the suit is brought for the faithful performance of his duties
by a municipal officer of that State.
A certificate, made and payable in a State out of a particular fund, and purporting to be the obligation of a municipal corporation existing under
public laws and endowed with restricted powers, granted only for special
and local purposes of a non-commercial character, is not governed by
the law merchant, and is open in the hands of subsequent holders to the
same defences as existed against the original payee.
The sureties on the bond of the trustee of a municipal township in Ifidiana
are not subjected by the Revised Statutes of that State, §§ 6006, 6007, to
liability for the payment of warrants or certificates which, apart from
those sections, it was not within the authority of the trustee to execute,
or which were fraudulent in themselves.
A township trustee in Indiana cannot contract a debt for school supplies
unless supplies suitable and reasonably necessary for the township have
been actually delivered to and accepted by it.

THIS was an action brought in the name of the State of
Indiana on the relation of Walter Stanton, trustee, a citizen
of New York, against Afista Glover and four other defendants, citizens of Indiana, on the official bond of said Glover
as trust-, of Mill Creek township, 'in the c6unty of Fountain, State of Indiana, the other defendants being sureties on
said bond. The complaint was demurred to on the grounds
that it did not state fa6ts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action and that the court had no jurisdiction of the subjectVOL. cLv-33

OCTOBER TERIM&r, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

matter. The demurrer was sustained, and judgment rendered
in favor of defendants, and plaintiff sued out a writ of error.
The complaint averred that Glover was elected trustee of
the township, April 7, 18841; qualified April 19, and entered
upon the discharge of his duties as such, and so continued
until some time in the month of August or September, 1885,
when he abandoned his office and fled the country ; that on
April 19, 1884, he executed his bond as such trustee with his
codefendants as sureties thereon, a copy of which bond is
made part of the complaint, and the first condition expressed
therein is that "the said Arista Glover shall well and faithfully discharge the duties of said office according to law."
The complaint stated facts showing that, under the provisions of law in that behalf, the township trustee had no
right to incur any further debt on behalf of his township
without first procuring an order from the board of county
commissioners allowing him to contract therefor; and averred
that in violation of the duties of his office and of the terms
of his bond, said Glover executed and delivered to R. B. Pollard certain promissory notes, seven in number, aggregating
$5375.76, all of the same form, filed as exhibits and made
part of the complaint, and one of which is as follows:
State of Indiana, County of Fountain,
"Trustee's Office.
"MILL CREEK SCIHOOL Tos,-nSHip, .May 19th, 1885.
"This is to certify that there is now due from this township
to R. B. Pollard or order seven hundred & seventy-two & -%
dollars for school supplies bought for and received by this
township and payable out of the special school funds, for
which taxes are now levied, at the Citizens' Bank, at Attica,
Indiana, on the 20th day of January, 1887, with interest at 8
per cent per annum on the amount from date till paid, and
ARIsTA G.LOVER,
attorneys' fees.
"School Trustee of -Mill Creek Township."
"$772.50.

It was further alleged that Glover, "as such trustee, did not
at or prior to the execution of said promissory notes or either

STATE OF INDIANA v. GLOVER.
Statement of the Case.

or any of them, nor at any other time, obtain any order from
the board of commissioners of said Fountain County authorizing him to contract any indebtedness for or in the name of
said
ill Creek school township, but the execution and
delivery of said notes and each and every of them was executed and issued in express violation of the provisions of
sections one and two of the act of the general assembly of
the State of Indiana, entitled 'An act to limit the powers
of township trustees in incurring debts and requiring them
to designate certain days for transacting township business,'
approved M\arch 11, 1875, the same being sections numbered
6006 and 6007 of the Revised Statutes of the State of Indiana."
The complaint then averred the transfer by Pollard of the
notes in blank for value received to certain banks and a trust
company, citizens of Rhode Island, and their transfer and
delivery to the plaintiff ; that subsequent to the endorsements
and prior to the institution of the suit, Pollard abandoned his
residence and citizenship in the United States and fled beyond
the seas; and that plaintiff was unable to state whether Pollard had acquired a citizenship in a foreign country, or of
what country; but plaintiff averred that he is not now and
was not at the commencement of this action either a resident
or citizen of the State of Indiana.
In the second paragraph or count of the complaint, plaintiff
averred that Glover "did, in violation of the duties of his office
and of the terms and cbnditions of his bond aforesaid, purchase
and obtain from one R. B. Pollard a large amount of goods for
the use of the schools of said Mill Creek township, and in payment therefor did execute and deliver to said R. B. Pollard"
the notes (describing them); and that said Glover, "as such
trustee, did not at or prior to the purchase of said goods or
the execution and delivery of said promissory notes or either
or any of them, nor at any other time, obtain any order from
the board of commissioners of said Fountain County authorizing him to contract any indebtedness for or in the name of
said Mill Creek school township, but the purchasing of said
goods and the execution and delivery of said notes and each
and every of them was made in express violation of the pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

visions" of sections 6006 and 6007. Both paragraphs of the
complaint were otherwise the same, and the breach alleged
was the execution of the notes or certificates in question.
Section 6006 of the IRevised Statutes of 1881 is: "Whenever
it becomes necessary for the trustee of any township in this
State to incur on behalf of his township, any debt or debts
whose aggregate amount shall be in excess of the fund on
hand to which such debt or debts are chargeable, and of the
fund to be derived from the tax assessed against his township
for the year in which such debt is to be incurred, such trustee
shall first procure an order from the board of county commissioners of the, county in which such township is situated,
authorizing him to contract such indebtedness."
Section 6007 provided for the manner in which such order
of the board of county commissioners should be obtained by
the trustee.
On March 5, 1889, an act of the legislature of Indiana was
approved, entitled "An act touching the duties of township
trustees with reference to liquidating and contracting indebtedness of townships in certain cases." The second section
of this act reads as follows: "And it is further provided that
any township trustee, in any county of the State of Indiana,
who shall contract any debt in the name or in behalf of
any.civil or school township of which he may be the trustee,
contrary to the provisions of sections one and two of ' An act
to limit the powers of township trustees in incurring debts,
'and requiring him to designate certain days for transacting
township business,' approved March 11, 1875, (the same being
numbered six thousand and six and six thousand and seven of
the Revised Statutes- of the State of Indiana,) shall be personally liable, and liable on his official bond, to the holder of
any contract or other evidence of such indebtedness, for the
amount thereof." Stats. Ind. 1883, c. 95, p. 114. This act was
repealed March 9, 1889, Stats. Ind. 1889, c. 138, p. 278, but
was in force at the date of the bond sued on and at the date
of the alleged breach thereof.
.A&. J. -X. Vilson, Mr. Solomon Claypool,'and Mr.TWilliam
]fetcham for plaintiff in error, submitted on their brief.

STATE OF INDIANA v. GLOYER.
Opinion of the Court.

r'. Charles B. Stuart, .7kb'. Daniel F. Simms and .Mr.
Lucas .ANebeker for defendant in error IRinn, submitted on
their brief.
.Mr.L. T. XAichener (with whom was .Mr. lY. l.
the brief,) for defendants in error.
MR.
court.

CHIEF JUSTICE

Dudley on

FULLER delivered the opinion..of the

The case must -be treated, so far as the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court is concerned, as though Stanton was alone
named as plaintiff. Maryland v. Baldwin, 112 U. S. 490.
If the suit could be regarded as founded on the certificates
attached to the complaint, there would be a want of jurisdiction, as it does not appear that Pollard could have prosecuted
the suit in the Circuit Court, Rev. Stat. § 629; Act of March
3, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470 ; Act of larch 3, 1887, c. 373, 21
Stat. 552, 553; but as the suit is upon the bond, and Stanton
and his cestuis que trust were citizens of other States than
Indiana, we think the jurisdiction may be maintained.
But although the suit is upon the bond, the liability asserted
under section two of the act of 1883 is to the holder of the
certificates "for the amount thereof," and the breach alleged
is the execution of the certificates.
Such a liability might be transferable to successive holders
of the warrant or certificate, but it would seem quite clear
that if the liability did not exist in favor of the payee, subsequent holders would stand in no better position. Certificates,
like those exhibited in the case at bar, made and payable in
Indiana, out of a particular fund, and purporting to be the
obligations of a corporation existing under public laws and
endowed only with restricted powers granted for special and
purely local purposes of a non-commeFcial character, are not
governed by the law merchant and are open in the hands of
subsequent holders to the same defences.as existed against the
original payee. Stanton v. Shipley, 27 Fed, Rep. 498; State

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

ex rel. Cohen v. Hawes, 112 Indiana, 323; Merrill v. fonticello, 138 U. S. 673.
The contention is that where an order of the county com.missioners is requisite, under sections 6006 and 6007 of the
Revised Statutes of Indiana, to empower a township trustee
to contract indebtedness, and has not been obtained, the mere
fact of the issue of a warrant or certificate by the trustee, in
form. the warrant or certificate of the township, authorizes the
recovery of the amount thereof of the trustee and his sureties
by suit on the official bond. We cannot concur in that view.
The section in question provides that when the trustee contracts a debt in the name or in behalf of the township, without the proper order of the county commissioners, if required,
liability on the official bond is incurred to the holder of the
contract or other evidence of such indebtedness. The indebtedness thus referred to is manifestly an indebtedness contracted within the -line of official duty and authority for
something furnished to or obtained for the township, although in disregard of the provisions of sections 6006 and
6007. The sureties were not subjected to liability by the
statute for the payment of warrants or certificates which,
apart from those sections, it was not within the authority of
the trustee to execute, or which were fraudulent in themselves, but only when persons had in good faith .parted with
money or property to the township on the strength of the
official character of the transaction. Such we understand to
be the construction put upon the act by the highest judicial
tribunal of Indiana. That court in Jeffersonville School Township v. Litton, 116 Indiana, 467, 475, pointed out that by the
first section of the act provision was made for the protection of
creditors without actual knowledge of the facts where a township trustee had theretofore undertaken to incur debts without an order of the county commissioners, when such an order
was requisite; and that by the second section it was attempted
to check further extravagance, and at the same time to save
innocent creditors. But a writing purporting to be evidence
of such indebtedness could not create it. And, in respect
of school supplies, the Supreme Court of Indiana has de-

STATE OF INDIANA v. GLOVER.
Opiniou of the Court.

cided "again and again, that a township trustee has no
power, by any form of obligation, to bind the corporation of
which he is the agent or trustee by contract for school supplies, unless supplies suitable and reasonably necessary have
been actually delivered to and received by the township."
Boyd v. .Mill Creek School Township, 114 Indiana, 210.
In State v. H"awes, 112 Indiana, 323, the action was brought
on the official bond of a trustee to recover for a certificate
made to Pollard, purporting to be for school supplies bought
and received by the township, it being averred that the same
was executed in violation of sections 6006 and 6007. The
certificate was in fact issued without any actual consideration,
and the Supreme Court said: "The liability imposed by the
act of 1883 requires, as -a condition precedent, that the township trustee must have contracted a debt, in the name or in
behalf of his township, either civil or school, and the debt
must have been contracted in violation of the provisions of
sections 6006 and 6007. If, therefore, the transaction in
which the certificate had its inception was such as to create no
debt, or if the debt created was not within the prohibition of
the above-mentioned sections, manifestly the statutory liability
has not been incurred by any one. . . . The mere delivery
of a piece of paper which imports a: obligation to pay money,
but which is in fact no evidence of an actual existing debt,
does not constitute the contracting of a debt. It cannot be
supposed that it was the purpose of the statute to enable a
holder of a contract, or other evidence of indebtedness, issued
by a township trustee in the name or in behalf of his township,
to hold the trustee personally liable, and liable on his official
bond, whether an indebtedness had been in fact contracted or
not. A recovery in any case is limited by the statute to the
amount of the indebtedness, and not by the amount stipulated in the contract. Hence, given a case in which there is
no indebtedness, that is, no one who occupies the situation of
a creditor, and there can be no recovery under the statute.
Stanton v. Shipley, 27 Fed. Rep. 498. A township trustee
cannot contract a debt for school supplies unless supplies
suitable and reasonably necessary for the township have been

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Cburt.

actually delivered to, and a~cepted by, the township.

Bloom-

ington School Towship v. NXational 8chool Furnish/inn Co., N7
Indiana, 43; Reeve School Township v. Dodson, 98 Indiana,
497; Millis v. Johnson Schwol Township, 75 Indiana, 368.

"Where, therefore, as is the case here, paper purporting to
be the obligation of a township has been issued without any
consideration whatever, nothing having been given or received
therefor, the holder of such paper, whether he be. the payee
named therein or an assignee, has no right of action under the
act of 1883, because the trustee has not, in any legal or equitable sense, contracted a debt. Such paper creates no. obligation against any one; it is void. Axt v. ,ackson School
TownshTp, 90 Indiana, 101. Since township trustees can issue
obligations, binding on the township, only in case a debt has
been contracted, and since, in any event, paper issued as evidonce of an actual indebtedness already incurred by a municipal corporation, which possesses only limited powers, conferred for special and local purposes of a purely non-commercial character, is not negotiable according to the law merchant,
a subsequent holder of paper issued by a township trustee,
can occupy no better ground than that occupied by the person
to whom it was issued.

.

. . The certificate having been

issued in the name and in behalf of the township without
power or authority, and not as evidence of any debt contracted
by the trustee, it was absolutely void in the hands of the
original payee, both as respects the trustee personally and
the township, and, being for that reason void in his h.ands, it
was equally invalid in the hands of any subsequent holder."
In 8tate ex rel. Cunningham v. Eelms, 35 N. E. Rep. (Indiana,) 893, the action was against Helms and others, sureties on
his bond, as trustee of Sugar Creek township, to enforce the
liability on such bond, and the complaint averred that Helms,
b~ing the trustee of the township, was engaged in erecting a
school house suitable for the educational purposes of the township and necessary therefor, and that to complete the build
ing it became necessary for him to borrow money and incur
an indebtedness on the part of his township; that in order to
obtain money in that behalf, he, as such trustee, and in the

STATE OF INDIANA v. GLOVER.
Opinion of the Court.

name and in the behalf of the township executed a promissory note to the relator, exhibited with the complaint; that
thereupon the trustee received the sum represented by the
note in money for the purposes aforesaid, and that the loan
was made and the fund was received by the trustee for those
purposes, but that the trustee, without the knowledge of the
plaintiff, appropriated the fund to his own use; that the facts
existed bringing the case within sections 6006 and 6007, but
the trustee did not at any time procure an order from the
board of commissioners of said county, in which the township
was situated, authorizing him to contract such indebtedness;
and that plaintiff loaned the money to the township in good
faith and without any knowledge of the fact that there were
no funds in hand or a sufficient amount of funds arising from
the current levy to pay the debt so made. The Supreme
Court of Indiana held that the note, which was signed "trustee of Sugar Creek Township, Indiana," was, under the circumstances, the note of the township and not of the trustee
individually; that a municipal or quasi corporation can make
in a proper case a promissory note, and thereby bind itself for
any debt contracted in the course of its legith-nate business,
for any expenses incurred in any matter or thing which it is
authorized to do, or any matter which is not foreign to the
purposes of its creation; that where money is loaned to a
township trustee for building a suitable school house, the trustee not then having the funds on hand to complete the same,
and the money is applied to such purpose, the school township
represented by such trustee and receiving the benefit of such
money is liable therefor; that under the averments in the
complaint the trustee did contract a debt in the name of and
in behalf of his township; that as the complaint charged the
violation of sections 6006 and 6007 by the trustee, but that he
had secured the money.in the name of the township by virtue
of and under color of his office, he and his bondsmen were
liable under the act of March 5, 1883, for the amount of
money so received and converted. Township v. Litton, and
Stats v. Hawes, supra, were cited.

It will be perceived that the consideration of the notes was

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

fully set forth in the pleading; that it appeared therefrom
that the indebtedness was contracted in the line of official
duty and authority; and that the money was loahed in good
faith.
Tested by these principles, the defect in the complaint
before us lies in the failure to show that any debt was contracted within the meaning of the act of 1883.
The first paragraph contains no averment as to what the
certificates were given for. The certificates stated that the
sums specified therein were due for "school supplies" or "for
mnaps, charts, and supplies," " bought for and received by this
township ;" but the action was upon the official bond and not
upon the certificates, and the latter could neither add to nor take
from the pleading, and "to withstand a demurrer the pleading
must be good within itself without reference to the writing"
State ex Pt. Cunninghamv. Telms, supra. If, however, resort
were had to the recitals in the certificates to aid the complaint, the paragraph would still be lacking, for it would not
appear therefrom that the supplies were suitable and necessary for the township.
The second paragraph alleged that the consideration of the
certificates was "a large amount of goods for the use of the
schools of said Mlill Creek township," but it was not averred
that the goods were suitable and necessary, or were delivered
to and received by the township.
There was no averment as to value, and it appeared in
neither count that school supplies suitable and necessary for
the township formed the consideration of the certificates. No
basis was laid for the claim that they were taken by the payee
in good faith as issued either in virtue, or under color, of office.
Grinsley v. State, 116 Indiana, 130; Bloomington Township)
v. National School Furniture coqt, any, 107 Indiana, 43;
Litton. v. TVf'ighkt School Township, 127 Indiana, 81; Honey
Creek School Township v. Barnes, 119 Indiana, 213.
We do not regard the averments as sufficient under the act
of March 5, 1883, as interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
State.
Judgment affirmed.

