OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

the classes of citizens this bill would exclude, attach 'all the
rights and privileges of citizenship according to the constitution.' To three of these classes attach also all the rights
of ' native Cherokees,' according to treaty."
Further comment on this case is unnecessary. We see no
,-rror in the conclusions of the Court of Claims, and its decree is
Affirmed.

CHEROKEE NATION v. BLACKFEATHER.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLADIS.
No. 671. Argued and submitted October 18, 1894. -Decided

November 19, 1894.

A atipulation on the part of the Cherokees in an agreement made by them
with the Shawnees under authority of the act of October 1, 1890, c. 1249,
26 Stat. 636, that the Shawnees in consideration of certain payments by

them, etc., "shall be incorporated into and ever after remain a part of the
Cherokee Nation on equal terms in every respect and with all the privileges andimmunities of native citizens of said Cherokee Nation," secured
to the Shawnees equal rights with the Cherokees in that which was the
common property of the Cherokee Nation, namely, the reservation and
the outlet as well as all profits and proceeds thereof.
Without an appeal taken, a party will not be heard in an appellate court to
question the correctness of the decree in the trial court.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr. Assistant Attorney General Dodge for the United
States, submitted on his brief.
.Mr. Charles A. M~axwell and

.r. George S. Chase for the

Cherokee Nation, appellant, submitted on their brief.
.Mr. Charles .Brownell for Blackfeather, appellee.
MR. JusTicE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is similar to that just decided in which the same
parties were appellants, and Chdrles Journeycake, Principal

CHEROKEE NATION v. BLAOKFEATHER.
Opinion of the Court.

Chief, etc., defendant. The petition was filed under the authority of the same act of October 1, 1890, c. 1249, 26 Stat. 636,
and to enforce the claim of the Shawnee Indians domiciled in
the Cherokee Nation to an equal interest in the Cherokee
reservation and outlet, and the proceeds and profits thereof.
In pursuance of article XV of the treaty of July 19, 1866,
14 Stat. 799, 803, an agreement was, on June 7, 1869, entered
into between the Shawnees and the Cherokee Nation, through
their representatives, the substantial portions of which are as
follows:
"Whereas the Shawnee tribe of Indians are civilized and
friendly with the Cherokees and adjacent tribes, and desire to
settle within the Cherokee country on unoccupied lands east
of 960: It is, therefore, agreed by the parties hereto that such
settlement may be made upon the following terms and conditions, viz.: That the sum of five thousand dollars belonging to
the Shawnee tribe of Indians and arising under the provisions
of treaties between the United States and the said Shawnee
Indians as follows, viz., for permanent annuity for educational
purposes, per fourth article of treaty 3d of August, 1795, and
third article treaty 10th of May, 1854, one thousand dollars;
for interest at five per cent on forty thousand dollars for educational purposes, per third article of treaty 10th of May, i851-,
two thousand dollars; for permanent annuity in specie for
educational purposes, per fourth article of treaty 29th of September, 1817, and third article 10th of May, 1854, two thousand dollars, shall be paid annually to the Cherokee Nation
of said Indians, and that the annuities and interests as recited
and the investment or investments upon which the same are
based shall hereafter become and remain the annuities and
interest and investment or investments of the Cherokee Nation
of Indians, the same as they have been the annuities and
interest and investments of the Shawnee tribe of Indians.
And that the sum of fifty thousand dollars shall be paid to
the said Cherokees as soon as the same shall be received by
the United States for the said Shawnees from the sales of the
lands in the State of Kansas known as the absentee Shawnee
lands in accordance with the resolution of Congress approved

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

April -7, 1869, entitled 'A resolution for the relief of settlers
upon the absentee Shawnee lands in Kansas,' and the provisions of the treaty between the United States and the Shawnee
Indians concluded May 10, 1854, and also that the said Shawnees shall abandon their tribal organizations.
"And it is further agreed by the parties hereto that in consideration of the said payments and acts agreed upon as hereinbefore stated that the said Cherokees will receive the said
Shawnees - referring to those now in Kansas and also to such
as properly belong to said tribe who may be at present elsewhere and including those known as the absentee Shawnees
now residing in the Indian Territory -into the country of
the said Cherokees upon unoccupied lands east of 960, and that
the said Shawnees shall be incorporated into and ever dfter
remain a part of the Cherokee Nation on equal terms in every
respect and with all the privileges and immunities of native
citizens of said Cherokee Nation : Provided, That all of the
said Shawnees who shall elect to avail themselves of the provisions of this agreement shall register their names and permanently locate in the Cherokee country, as herein provided,
within two years from the date hereof ; otherwise they shall
forfeit all rights under this agreement."
The rights of the petitioners are to be determined by this
agreement in the light of article XV of the treaty. The
principal difference between this contract and that made
between the Cherokees and the Delawares consists in the fact
that in this there is no provision for the purchase of "homes"
or any payment of moneys on account thereof into the national
fund of the Cherokees; but, nevertheless, there is the express
stipulation "that the said Shawnees shall be incorporated into
and ever after remain a part of the Cherokee Nation, on equal
terms in every respect, and with all the privileges and immunities of native citizens of said Cherokee Nation."
For the reasons stated in the opinion in the former case it
must be held that this stipulation secured to the Shawnees
equal rights with the native Cherokees in that which was the
common property of the Cherokee Nation, to wit, the reservation and the outlet, as well as all profits and proceeds thereof.

DELAND v. PLATTE COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

So far, therefore, as the appellants are concerned, there
was no error in the decree.
There is an application by the appellee for a modification
of the decree increasing the sums awarded per capita to the
Shawnees. It is enough to say in reference to this application
that no appeal was taken by the appellee. Without an appeal,
a party will not be heard in an bppellate court to question the
correctness of the decree of the trial court. The Stephen
.Aorgan, 94 U. S. 599.
The decree of the Court of Claims is
Aftirmed.

DELAND v. PLATTE COUNTY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES

FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. S2. Submitted November 13, 1894.-Decided December 8,1894.

Final judgments of Circuit Courts of the United States in actions of assumpsit can only be revised in this court on writ of error.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.MXr. George A. Sanders for appellant.
No appearance for appellee.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE:

This was an action of assumpsit brought

by F. N. Deland against the county of Platte to recover on
certain bonds and coupons in the petition set forth. The case
was submitted to the court for trial, a jury having been waived
by agreement of the parties. The court made findings of fact
and gave an opinion, which concluded thus: "On the facts of
this case I declare the law to- be that the plaintiff cannot
recover."
November 5, 1890, judgment was entered for the defendant,
preceded by the recital of a general finding in its favor.
Motion for new tri~l was made and overruled, and defendant

