OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

the application for the Saladee patent, we need spend no time
upon it Moreover, the Cooper patent No. 200,435, clearly
anticipated Saladee's invention.
The decree is reversed and the cause r'emanded with a direction to dismiss the bill.

PITTSBURGH, CINCINNATI AND ST. LOUIS RAILWAY COMPANY v. KEOKUK AND HAMILTON
BRIDGE COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 633.

Argued October 19, 22, 1894. -Decided

November 19, 1894.

Where the railroad bridge of a bridge company and the railroads of several
railroad companies form a continuous line of railway transportation, the
liability of two of the railroad companies to pay to the bridge company
a certain proportion of tolls upon the bridge, and of deficiencies therein,
according to a contract with the bridge company, executed by another
of the railroad companies for the benefit and at the request of these two,
they undertaking to assume all the liabilities and to be entitled to all the
benefits of the bridge contract, "as if the same had been specifically
named in and made a part of the ninth article of" a lease of its railroad
from it to them, by which article they agreed to assume and carry out
certain contracts of transportation over railroads of other companies, is
not affected by the termination of the lease by eviction or otherwise.
Tittsburgh &c. Railway Co. v. Keokuk & Hamilton Bridge Co., 131 U. S.
371, followed.

THIS was a bill in equity, filed in the Circuit Court of the
U~nited States for the Northern District of Illinois by the
Keokuk and Hamilton Bridge Company (hereinafter called
the Bridge Company) against the Pittsburgh, Cincinnati and
St. Louis Railway Company (hereinafter called the Pittsburgh
Company) and the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, to recover
deficiencies in tolls for the use of the plaintiff's bridge since
March 1, 1883, under a contract, dated January 19, 1869, and

PITTSBURGH RAILWAY v. KEOKUK BRIDGE CO.

157

Statement of the Case.

modified June 6, 1871, by the Bridge Company with the
Columbus, Chicago and Indiana Central Railway Company
(hereinafter called the Indiana Central Company) and three
other railroad corporations, by which the Bridge Company
agreed to build and maintain a railway bridge across the
Mississippi River, and granted to these four railroad companies
in perpetuity the right to use it for the passage of their trains;
and they agreed to pay monthly certain tolls, and, if those
should fall below a certain sum, each to pay one fourth of the
deficiency.
This contract was executed by the Indiana Central Company
upon the requests in writing of the presidents of the Pittsburgh Company and of the Pennsylvania Company, by which
these two companies agreed to "assume all the liabilities and
obligations and be entitled to all the benefits of said bridge
contract, the same as if it had been specifically named and
made a part of the ninth article of" a lease of the Indiana
Central Company to and with the Pittsburgh Company and
the Pennsylvania Company, dated January 22, 1869.
By that lease, the Indiana Central Company leased its railroad to the Pittsburgh Company for ninety-nine years; the
Pittsburgh Company covenanted to pay a certain proportion
of the earnings of that road to the Indiana Central Company,
and, by the ninth article, to assume and carry out,. receiving
and enjoying the benefits thereof, certain existing contracts
for transportation over railroads of other companies not mentioned above; and the Pennsylvania Company guaranteed the
performance of the covenants of the Pittsburgh Company.
The bridge aforesaid, with the railroads of the Pennsylvania
Company, the Pittsburgh Company, the Indiana Central Company, and other railroad companieg named in the bridge contract, formed a continuous line of railroad transportation from
Philadelphia to Des Moines.
The provisions of the bridge contract, and of the lease, and
the circumstances attending and following their execution, are
more fully set forth in the case between the same parties in
131 U. S. 371. But the above abstract is sufficient for the
purposes of the present case.

OCTOBER TERAM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

In June, 1871, immediately after the modification of the
bridge contract, the bridge was accepted by the Bridge Company and was opened for use, and thenceforward was used
by the Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania Companies, in the exercise of the control asserted by them under the contract and
lease aforesaid. The Bridge Company demanded payment
directly from the Pittsburgh Company semi-annually of the
sums payable by the Indiana Central Company for tolls and
deficiencies under the modified bridge contract; and from
June, 1871, to September, 1874, the Pittsburgh Company paid
to the Bridge Company the amount both of such tolls and of
such deficiencies. After that time, like payments were demanded by the Bridge Company of the Pittsburgh Cofpany,
and the tolls only paid.
On July 25, 1881, the Bridge Company filed a bill in equity
against the Pittsburgh Company and the Pennsylvania Company to recover deficiencies in tolls for the use of the bridge
from September 1, 1874.
To that bill the defendants answered that the Indiana Central Company, the Pittsburgh Company and the Pennsylvania
Company never authorized their officers to execute the bridge
contract, or to bind them by it, and that the contract was
beyond the scope of their corporate powers.
The Pittsburgh Company also, by way of supplemental
answer, set up that in 1875 the trustees named in a mortgage
made by the Indiana Central Company of its railroad, rights
and franchises before the execution of the bridge contract,
brought a bill in equity to foreclose that mortgage, and were
thereupon appointed receivers, and, pursuant to decrees of
foreclosure, there were conveyed by the Indiana Central Company to the receivers, and by them on January 10, 1883, sold
and conveyed to three individuals, as trustees, for a smaller
sum than the debt secured by the mortgage, its road, rights
and franchises, with the right to affirm or disaffirm the lease
aforesaid, and' the purchasers, on February 21, 1883, notified
the Pittsburgh Company that they disaffirmed the lease; and
further averred "that, in accordance with said decrees, possession of said railway property, rights and franchises has been

PITTSBURGH RAILWAY v. KEOKUK BRIDGE CO.

159

Statement of the Case.

surrendered to the said purchasers, and that it has been wholly
ousted and evicted from all and singular the premises, rights
and franchises leased to it as aforesaid, and it relies upon the
cancellation of said lease and the ouster and eviction: as aforesaid, as a full and perfect answer to the relief sought in the bill.'
To those answers a general replication" was filed; and the
case was referred to a master, who reported that there was due
from the Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania Companies to the Bridge
Company, as one fourth part of the deficiency in the receipts
of the Bridge Company from September 1, 1874, to March 1,
1883, the sum of $118,076.89; and that the road, rights and
franchises of the Indiana Central Company had been sold and
. c6nveyed, as alleged in the supplemental answer of the Pittsburgh Company, to trustees, and by them on March 17, 1883,
to the Chicago, St. Louis and Pittsburgh Railroad Company.
The Circuit Court confirmed the masteFs report, and entered
a decree for the Bridge Company for the sum found due; and,
on appeals by the Pittsburgh Company and the Pennsylvania
Company, that decree was affirmed By this court. 131 U. S. 371.
The present bill was filed September i2, 1889, and set forth
the proceedings and decree in the former suit. In an amended
answer to this bill, the Pittsburgh Company and the Pennsylvania Company set up that the interlocutory decrees in the suit
for foreclosure, appointing the receivers and directing a conveyance to them, were subject to the qualification that until further
order of the court the receivers should not disturb the possession
of the Pittsburgh Company ; and that no order was made that
they should disturb its possession, until and unless by the decrees
of sale; but that, on the contrary, the Pittsburgh Company remained in undisturbed possession, of the railroad property of the
Indiana Central Company until March 17, 1883, when it was
wholly dispossessed of the same and evicted therefrom, and from
all rights under the lease, by the Chicago, St: Louis and Pitts.burgh Railroad Company, to which the same had been conveyed
by the purchasers under the decree of foreclosure, "by virtue of
which eviction the said Pittsburgh Company and the Pennsylvania Company lost and ceased to have any right, title or interest to, or any claim or demand upon, said railway premises,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Counsel for Appellee.

property and franchises, in or under said lease or amended
lease, and became relieved thereby from all obligations, duties
and liabilities imposed by the ninth clause of said lease, and
by the said requests, or either of them, and by the said original bridge contract or any amendment or modification thereof."
To this answer the plaintiff filed a general replication.
The Circuit Court entered a decree for the plaintiff; and
the defendants appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Seventh Circuit, which certified to this court, under the
act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, ยง 6, that at the hearing "there
arose upon the pleadings in the cause certain propositions of
law, concerning which the instruction of the Supreme Court
of the United States is desired. And because this court is in
doubt whether, in view of the decision of the Supreme Court
of the United States in the cause between the parties hereto,
referred to in the pleadings, and reported in 131 U. S. Reports,
371, it is at liberty to consider or sustain the eviction, pleaded
in this case, as a valid defence to the claim of the appellee, and
whether the contracts with the Bridge Company could be
avoided by any transaction with respect to the lease: It is
therefore ordered that the pleadings in this case, to wit, the
bill, the amended answer, and the replication, be certified to
the Supreme Court of the United States for its opinion and
instruction upon the following questions:
" 1. Is this court at liberty, in view of the decision and
decree in the former case between these parties, referred to in
tie pleadings, to consider or sustain the defence of eviction,
pleaded in this case?
"2. Are the contracts between the Bridge Company and
the appellants so independent of the lease, that they would
not be affected, nor the defendant railway companies released
from liability thereunder, by termination of the lease by eviction or otherwise ?"
J11.. George Iloadly for appellants.
.Mr. Lyman Trumbull, (with whom was Xr. Perry Trumbadl on the brief,) and M'. Edwi,. Walker for appellee.

PITTSBURGH RAILWAY v. KEOKUK BRIDGE CO.

161

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court,
In the formef case between these parties, reported 131 U.. S.
371, it was decided that the Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania
Companies were the real, though not the formal, parties to
the bridge contract executed bythe Indiana Central Company
at their request and for their benefit; that this contract was
within the scope of their corporate powers, and made them
directly liable to the Bridge Company for the proportion of
tolls and deficiencies which by the terms of that contract were
chargeable to the Indiana Central Company; that the bridge
contract was a separate and distinct agreement from the lease
(to which the Bridge Company was not a party) between the
Indiana Central Company and the Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania Companies; and that the validity and effect of the
bridge contract did not depend upon the validity or invalidity
of the lease, or upon the question whether these two companies, .byreason of eviction, were no longer liable upon the
lease.
In that case, this court, after discussing the terms of the
lease, of the bridge contract, and of the agreement contained
in the request of the Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania .Companies
to the Indiana Central Company to execute that contract,
said:
"The reference in that request and agreement to the ninth
article of the lease was for the purpose of defining the extent
of the liabilities and benefits assumed, and perhaps of indicating that the Pittsburgh Company alone was bound as principal, and the Pennsylvania Company as guarantor only; but
it did not make the bridge contract a part of the lease."
"The sole ground of our decision is that the bridge contract
is independent of the lease, and is valid and binding as between
the parties to this suit, whether the lease is valid or invalid.
This being so, the question argued at the bar, whether the
appellants, by reason of eviction, are no longer liable on the
lease, becomes immaterial." -131 U. S. 387, 390.
The reason and principle of that decision, so far as concerns
VOL. CLV-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

the present inquiry, were that, while the ninth article of the
lease might be referred to for the purpose of defining the
extent, or measure, and perhaps the nature or character, of
the liabilities and benefits which the Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania Companies assumed by reason of the terms of the bridge
contract, and of the agreement contained in their request for
its execution; yet the bridge contract was not made part of
the lease, nor was the whole lease made part of the bridge
contract, or of the agreement expressed in the request; nor
did the liability of the Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania Companies to the Bridge Company upon the bridge contract, for
deficiencies in tolls upon the bridge, depend upon the question
whether the lease of the road of the Indiana Central Company
to the Pittsburgh Company was valid or invalid, or upon the
question whether that lease remained in full force between
the parties to it, or had been terminated by eviction of the
lessee or otherwise.
The same reason and principle are no less applicable to the
eviction as now pleaded than to the eviction as pleaded in the
formep suit.
Consequently, the second question certified by the Circuit
Court of Appeals must be answered in the affirmative; and
no further solution of the doubts expressed by that court in
the first question, and in the preamble thereof, is necessary to
the disposition of the case.
Ordered accordinzgly.
MR. CHIEF JUTIcE. FULLEIR having been of counsel, did not
sit in this case or take any part in its decision.

