LAKE SUPERIOR &c. CO. v. FINAN.
Opinion of the Court.

lands is to be construed favorably to the actual settler, and
the construction contended for by the canal company seems
to us too narrow. If a party entering upon a tract, although
he knew that it was within the limits of an old railroad grant,
did so under the honest belief and expectation that that grant,
if not technically extinguished by lapse of time, had remained
so long unappropriated by aiy beneficiary that Congress
would shortly resume it, and in that belief determined to
make for himself a home thereon, with a view of perfecting his
title under the land laws of the United States when the forfeiture should be finally declared, it must be held, we think, that
he is, within the terms of this confirmatory act, a bona Jide
claimant of a homestead. The ruling of the Circuit Court
was correct, and the judgment in favor of the defendant is
Afflrmed.

LAKE SUPERIOR SHIP CAxAL, RAILWAY AND IRON COMPANY

v. FINAN.

Error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Michigan. No. 50. Argued November 2, 5,
1894. Decided December 10, 1894. MR. JUSTIcE BREWER. This
case differs from the preceding, in that the action was commenced
March 21, 1889, and that Finan, the defendant, did not enter upon
the tract in controversy until after the 1st of A-fay, 1888. His
entry and occupation gave him no rights to the land, because it
was embraced within the railroad grant of 1856. He took nothing
under the confirmatory act of 1889, because he was not a bonafide
clainnt or in actual occupation on the 1st of May, 1888. The
land was selected and certified to the State for the benefit of the

canal company, and was within the scope of the confirmation to
the company by the act of 1889. The title of the company was,
therefore, perfect as against him. The judgment of the Circuit
Court must, therefore, be
Reversed, and the case remanded for a new trial.
Mr. John . Dillon for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Don M. Dckiidson for defendant in error.
VOL. CLv-25

