HORNE v. GEORGE H. HAMMOND C0.
Opinion of the Court.

HORNE v. GEORGE H. HAMMOND COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 86. Argued November 20, 21, 1894.

Decided December IT, 1894.

When the transcript of the record does not show that the Circuit Court had
jurisdiction of a suit, where jurisdiction depends upon citizenship, and
counsel, upon their attention being called to the matter, furnish nothing
of record to supply the defect, the judgment must be reversed at the
costs of the plaintiff in error, and the cause remanded to the Circuit
Court for further proceedings.

THE ,case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr. ugene P. Carver, (with whom was Mr. Robert X.
.Morse on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. George Putnam for defendant in error.
THE CHI1EF JUsTICE: The title of this cause describes plaintiff in error as-" of Chelsea in said district," and the decedent
as "late of Chelsea," and the defendant as "a corporation
organized under the laws of the State of Michigan." The
writ and the original 'declaration do not appear in the record..
The amended declaration commences thus: "Plaintiff says
that she is the widow of the late Granville P. Horne of
Chelsea, Suffolk County, Cominonwealth of Massachusetts,
and that she was duly appointed by the probate court of
Suffolk County administratrix of his estate."
As the transcript of the record does not show that the
Circuit Court had jurisdiction of the suit, which depended
upon the citizenship of the parties, and as counsel, upon having
their attention called to the matter, have furnished nothing of
record which would tupply the defect, the judgment must be
reversed at the costs of plaintiff in error, and the cause be
remanded to the Circuit Court for further proceedings. Bob-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

ertson v. Cease, 97 U. S. 646, 649; Anderson v. Watt, 138
U. S. 694, 702; Timmons v. Elyton Land Co., 139 U. S. 378;
Denny v. Pironi,141 U. S. 121.
Reversed and ordered accordingly.

SWAN v. HILL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF ARTZONA.
No. 101.

Submitted December 4, 1894. -Decded

December 1T, 1894.

It was not error in the Supreme Court of the Territory of Arizona to dismiss an appeal when the appeal bond was without obligees, and not conditioned according to law.

Tmis was an action brought by John Hill, A. B. Wild, S. B.
Curtis and Samuel Summers, in the District Court of Cochise
County, against H. C. Herrick and others, including the Boston
Mining and Reduction Company, to establish plaintiff's alleged
prior right to the use of the waters of the San Pedro River
for irrigation purposes, and to restrain defendants in respect
thereof. The defendant company having, previously to the
commencement of the action, conveyed its property to Swan,
trustee, the latter was made a defendant, as were numerous
others averred to be interested in the use of the waters of the
river. The case was tried by the court, a jury being waived,
and resulted in certain findings of fact and a decree adjudging
priority of right to the waters of the river; first, to two of
the defendants; second, to plaintiffs; third, fourth and fifth,
to various named defendants, respectively; and that the
defendant company, and those claiming under it, or the trustee, were entitled to none of the waters for purposes of irrigation as against any of the parties until the other rights -as
established were satisfied. The cause was dismissed as against
many defendants without prejudice. Motion for new trial
was made and overruled, and Swan, trustee, appealed to the
Supreme Court of the Territory, and tendered a paper as and

