WESTMORELA-ND v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

were a matter within our discretion, why We ought not to
retain the case and affirm the order on the ground of want of
error when the record is insufficient to present the question
sought to be raised. And, although not discretionary, we are
relieved from the necessity of reaching that result.
The error assigned is as follows: "For that his honor erred
in not dismissing the case upon the suggestion of the Attorney
General of South Carolina that this is really an action against
said State, brought without her consent, the defendants denying having possession of the property in suit and claiming to
have custody of said property for the said State, said State
not being a party to the record, though a party in fact, the
alleged cause of action being contractual in its nature, in that
whatever rights the plaintiff has are derived from his contract
with the State and the property involved in this litigation
being claimed by the State." The State does not complain
that it was refused leave to intervene, but that the Circuit
Court without the intervention of the State refused merely
upon suggestion to dismiss the complaint against the defendants who were sued as individuals. The State was not a party
to the record in the Circuit Court and did not become a party
by intervention, pro interese suo or otherwise, but expressly
refused to submit its rights to the jurisdiction of the court.
This being so, the motion to dismiss may well be sustained on
that ground. United States v. Lee, 106 U. S.196, 197; Geo.gia
v. Jesuy,"106 U. S. 458.
WUit of error
dismissed.

WESTMORELAND v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No-765.

Submitted December 10, 1894.-Decided January 7, 1S95.

An averment in an indictment for murder that the defendant is "a white
person and not an Indian" is sufficient to show that he is outside of the
first two. clauses of Rev. Stat. ยง 2146.
VOL. CLv-85

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.
An averment in an indictment that the defendant was not a citizen of the
Indian Territory will be sustained as a sufficient averment that he does
not come within the provisions of article 38 of the treaty of April 28,
1866, with the Choctaws and Chickasaws, 14 Stat. 769, 779, when no challenge of the indictment in this respect is made prior to the trial, and the
question is only made by motion in arrest of judgment.
A charge in an indictment which charges that the defendant administered
to the deceased strychnine and other poisons with the unlawful and felonious intent to take his life, and that so administered they did have the
effect of causing death, is sufficient.
In charging the causing of death by poisoning, it is unnecessary to aver
that the poison was taken into the stomach of the deceased.

ON June 16, 1894, the plaintiff in error was adjudged guilty
of the crime of murder by the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Texas, and sentenced to be
hanged. This sentence has been brought to this court for
review by writ of error. The record contains only the indictment, the judgment, and the motion in arrest thereof. The
indictment charges "That one Thomas Westmoreland, a white person and not
an Indian, nor a citizen of the Indian Territory, late of Pickens County, Chickasaw Nation, Indian Territory, in the district and circuit aforesaid, on the fifteenth day of June in the
year of our Lord eighteen hundred and ninety-three, in Pickens County, in the Chickasaw Nation, in the Indian Territory,
the same being annexed to and constituting a.part of the said
fifth circuit, and annexed to and constituting a part of the
Eastern District of Texas for judicial purposes, and being
within the jurisdiction of this court, did unlawfully, fraudulently, and feloniously, and with his malice aforethought, and
with certain drugs and poisons, to wit, strychnine and certain
poisons to the grand jurors unknown, then and there given
and administered by the said Thomas Westmoreland to one
Robert Green with the unlawful and felonious intent of the
said Thomas Westmoreland then and there to'take the life of
him, the said Robert Green.
"And he, the said Thomas Westmoreland, did then and
there, by-administering the said poison, as aforesaid, unlawfully, knowingly, and feloniously poison him, the said Robert

WESTMORELAND v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Green, from the effects of which said poison he, the said Robert Green, did languish, and languishing did then and there
die on the fifteenth day of June, A.D. eighteen hundred and
ninety-three, and within a year and a day from said date.
"And the said grand jurors aforesaid, upon their oaths aforesaid, do say that upon the day af6resaid, at the place aforesaid, with said poison aforesaid, used as aforesaid, and in the
manner aforesaid, the said Thomas Westmoreland did unlawfully, feloniously, and with his malice aforethought, kill and
murder the said Robert Green. The said Thomas Westmoreland and he, the said Robert Green, being then and there
white persons and not Indians, nor citizens of the Indian Territory, contrary to the form of the statute in such cases made
and provided, and against the peace and dignity of the United
States of America."
Yr. 0.I.

Rerbert for plaintiff in error.

Xr. Assistant Attorney General Whitney for defendants in
error.
MR. JusTic. BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

It is not denied that the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Texas has jurisdiction over offences against the laws
of the United States committed in that portion of the Indian
Territory described in the indictment, Act of March 1, 1889,
c. 333, ยง 17, 18, 125 Stat. 783, 786; but it is insisted that by
section 2146, Rev. Stat., such jurisdiction does not "extend to
crimes committed by one Indian against the person or property of another Indian, nor to any Indian committing any
offence in the Indian country who has been punished by the
local law of the tribe, or to any case where, by treaty stipulations, the exclusive jurisdiction over such offences is or may be
secured to the Indian tribes respectively," and that no indictment can be held sufficient which does not expressly negative
the exceptions contained in this section. See also the Act of

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

May 2, 1890, c. 182, ยง 30, 26 Stat. 81, 94; In re ifayfield, 141
U. S. 107. The defendant and the deceased are described as
"white persons, and not Indians, nor citizens of the Indian
Territory." The first clause in section 2146 is taken from
the twenty-fifth section of the Act of June 30, 1834, c. 161, 4
Stat. 729, 733, and it was held in United States v. Rogers, 4
How. 567, 573, that adoption into an Indian tribe did not
bring the party thus adopted within the scope of such excep.tion, the court saying: "Whatever obligations the prisoner
may have- taken upon himself by becoming a Cherokee by
adoption, his responsibility to the laws of the United States
remained unchanged and undiminished. He was still a white
man, of the white race, and therefore not within the exception in the act of Congress." The term "Indian " in section
2146 is one descriptive of race, and therefore the defendant,
described as a white man and not an Indian, is shown to be
outside the first two clauses of section 2146.
But it is insisted that article 38 of the treaty with the
Choctaws and Chickasaws, of April 28, 1866, 14 Stat. 769,
'779,- provides that "every white person who, having married
a Choctaw or, Chickasaw, resides in the said Choctaw or
Chickasaw nation, or who has been adopted by the legislative
authorities, is to be deemed a member of said nation, and shall
be subject to the laws of the Choctaw and Chickasaw nations
according to his domicil, and to prosecution and trial before
their tribunals, and to punishment according to their laws in
all respects as though he was a native Choctaw or Chickasaw;" and that, therefore, the indictment should also negative the conditions of this article. But it is charged that the
defendant and the deceased were not "citizens of the Indian
Territory." Force must be given to this term in the indictment, and while it may be conceded that it is not the most
apt to describe citizenship in an Indian tribe, yet it is not an
unreasonable construction to hold that it refers to all citizenship which could possibly be acquired in the Indian Territory,
including therein citizenship in any Indian tribe domiciled
within such limits. At least, as no challenge was made of
the indictment prior to the trial, and the question was only

WESTMIORELAND v. 'UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

raised by motion in arrest, and as, further, that which was
intended is obvious, it is fair to rule that any merely technical
defect in this language was cured by the verdict.
Again, it is objected that the indictment is insufficient in
that it fails to allege that the defendant knew that that
which he is charged to have administered to the deceased was
a deadly poison, and also that the poison was taken into the
stomach of the deceased. Neither of these objections is well
taken. It is charged that he administered the strychnine and
other poisons with the unlawful and felonious intent to take the
life of the deceased, and that, so administered, they did have
the effect of causing death. It matters not whether he knew
the exact character of the strychnine or other poisons. It
was murder if he unlawfully and feloniously administered any
poison with the design of taking life, and that which he so
administered did produce death. At the common law, though
it was necessary to allege the kind of poison administered,
nevertheless proof of the use of a different kind of poison
was regarded as an immaterial variance. "If A. be indicted
for poisoning of B., it must allege the kind of poison,.but if
he poisoned B. with another kind of poisoning, yet it maintains the indictment, for the kind of death is the same." 2
Hale P. C. 185; 2 Bishop Crim. Pro. ยง 514 and 555. So,
also, it is unnecessary to aver that the poison was taken. into
the stomach of the deceased. The crime would be complete
if the poison was by hypodermic injection, or otherwise, introduced into the body of the deceased, and affecting the
heart, or other organ, caused the death. The indictment need
not specify in detail the mode in which the poison affected
the body, or 'the particular organ upon which its operation
was had. It is enough to charge that poison was administered, and that such poison, so administered, caused the
death.
These are all the objections made to the indictment, and as
its sufficiency is the only question presented for consideration,
it must be held that no error is apparent in the record, and
the judgment is

Afirmed.

