CONSTRIUCTION CO. v. CANE CREEK.
Statement of the Case.

with premeditation; that he did not act from a previously
formed design to kill, but that the purpose to kill prang into
existence upon the impulse of the moment because of the
provocative conduct of Charles Hermes at the time of the
killing, that would be a state of manslaughter. ....
The law says that the previous selection, preparation, and
subsequent use of a deadly weapon shows that there was a
purpose to kill contemplated before that affray existed, and
whenever that exists, when it is done unlawfully and improperly so that there is no law of self-defence in it, the fact that
they may have been in an actual affray with hands or fists would
not reduce the grade of the crime to manslaughter."
The error here is in the assumption that the act of the
defendant in arming himself showed a purpose to kill formed
before the actual affray. This was the same error that we
found in the instructions regarding the right of self-defence,
and brings the case within the case of Gourko v. United
States, previously cited, and the language of which we need
not repeat.
These views call for a reversal of the judgment, and it is
therefore unnecessary to consider the assignments that allege
errors in the selection of the jury.
The judgment is reversed,and tAe cause remandedfor a new
trial.

MASSACHUSETTS AND SOUTHERN CONSTRUCTION COMPANY v. CANE CREEK TOWNSHIP.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

STATES

FOR

No. 112. Submitted November 20, 1894.- Decided December 8, 1894.

Where the object of an action or suit. is to recover the possession of real oi
personal property, the one in possession is a necessary and indispensable,
and not a formal, party.

Tnis was a suit commenced by the appellant, a citizen of
the State of Massachusetts-, in the Circuit Court of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

States for the District of South Carolina, to recover the possession of certain bonds. The defendants were the township of
Cane Creek, Lancaster County, South Carolina, a citizen of
that State, and the Boston Safe Deposit and Trust Company,
a corporation created by and a citizen of the State of Massachusetts, the State of which the plaintiff was a citizen.
The facts as alleged in the bill were that $19,000 of the
bonds of the township of Cane Creek, one of the defendants,
had been by agreement deposited with the Deposit and Trust
Company, the other defendant, to be delivered to the plaintiff
when a certain railroad in the township was completed and
ready for operation, as shown by the certificate of the engineer of the railroad company, and a majority of the board of
county commissioners of Lancaster County, the corporate
agent of said township; that the road had been fully coinpleted, but that the commissioners wrongfully refused to sign
the required certificate; that the Deposit and Trust Company
had no interest in the bonds, and claimed none, and was ready
and willing to deliver the bonds whenever it was protected in
so doing. The prayer was, first, for process; "second, that
pending said suit, and until further order of the court, the said
trust company be ordered to deliver and pay over said bonds
to the complainant; third, that the said defendant township
may be required to specifically perform its aforesaid agreements by assenting to the delivery of said bonds now in the
hands of said defendant trust company to the complainant;
fourth, that said defendant trust company be ordered to pay
over and deliver said bonds to the complainant;" fifth, for
further relief. The township defended by a motion to set aside
the service of process, by a plea to the jurisdiction of the court,
on the ground that one of the defendants was a citizen of the
same State as the plaintiff, and a necessary party to the controverlsy, and by an answer to the merits. The Deposit and
Trust Company also filed an answer, which set forth that it
had no interest in the bonds, or the debt represented thereby,
made no claim for any services in connection therewith, that
At was a mere stakeholder, and ready to deliver the bonds
whenever protected in so doing. It was agreed by counsel

COSTRUCTION CO. v. CANE CREEK.
Opinion" of the Court.

"that the motion to set aside service and the pleas. to the
jurisdiction should be heard when the case was tried on its
merits without prejudice, the motion not to be deemed as
waived or overruled by the pleas and answer, and the pleas
not to be deemed waived or overruled by the answer, and for the
sake of convenience this agreement shall continue of force for
the purposes of this appeal and hearing in the Supreme Court."
The motion to set aside service and the plea were overruled,
but upon the merits a decree was entered in favor of the
defendants. To reverse this decree the plaintiff appealed to
this court, the bond on appeal running only to the township.
.Mr. Samuel Lord for appellants.
M.. .1ra B. Jones for appellee.
MR. JUsTIcE BRnnEw,
opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered the

The plea to the jurisdiction should have been sustained.
The substantial object of the suit was to obtain possession of
the bonds. The Deposit and Trust Company was the party
in possession, and, although it claimed no interest in the bonds
as against the plaintiff and its codefendant, yet possession
could not be enforced in favor of the plaintiff except by a
decree against it. Where the object of an action or suit is to
recover the possession of real or personal property, the one in
possession is a necessary and indispensable (and not a formal)
party. The case of Wil8 on v. Oswego Township, 151 U. S. 56,
is decisive on this point. In that case a suit was commenced
in a state court in Missouri to recover possession of certain
bonds in the custody of the Union Savings Association. There
were several defendants, among them one Montague, and an
intervenor, Oswego township, who, claiming the bonds,
removed the case on -the ground of diverse citizenship to the
Federal court. Such removal was adjudged to be erroneous,
this court holding that "the Union Savings Association, being
the bailee or trustee of the bonds, was a necessary and indispensable party to the relief sought by the petition, and that

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

defendant, being a citizen of the same State with the plaintiff,
there was no right of removal on the part of Montague, or
of the intervening defendant, the Oswego township, on the
ground that the Union Savings Association was a formal,
unnecessary, or nominal party."
Further comment is not required. The decree of the Circuit Court must be
Reversed, and the case Temanded, with instructions to sustain theplea, and to dismiss the billfor want of juridiction.

DEERING v. WINONA HARVESTER WORKS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
No. 54. Argued November 5, 6, 1894. -Decided

STATES FOR

December 5, 1894.

The first claim in letters patent No. 223,812, issued January 27, 1880, to
William F. Olin for an improvement in harvesters, describing a swinging elevator, iocated upon the grain, (or ascending,) side of the main belt,
pivoted at its lower end and movable at its upper end, is not infringed
by a similar device, located upon the stubble side, pivoted at its upper
end, and swinging at its lower end.
When an inventor, who may be entitled to a broader claim than he makes,
describes and claims only a part of his invention, he is presumed to have
abandoned the residue to the public.
Oral testimony, unsupported by patents or exhibits, tending to show prior
use of a patented device is open to grave suspicion.
Unsuccessful and abandoned experiments do not affect the validity of a
subsequent patent.
The 20th claim in letters patent No. 272,598, issued February 20, 1883, to
John F. Steward for an improvement in grain binders is valid, and was
infringed by the appellees.
The 21st claim in those letters patent was not infringed by the appellees.

THIS was a bill in equity for the infringement of letters
patent No. 223,812, issued January 27, 1880, to William F.
Olin, for an improvement in harvesters, and patent No.
272,598, issued February 20, 1883, to John F. Steward, for an
improvement in grain binders. The original bill was founded
upon five different patents, but appellant acquiesced in the

