DELAND v. PLATTE COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

So far, therefore, as the appellants are concerned, there
was no error in the decree.
There is an application by the appellee for a modification
of the decree increasing the sums awarded per capita to the
Shawnees. It is enough to say in reference to this application
that no appeal was taken by the appellee. Without an appeal,
a party will not be heard in an bppellate court to question the
correctness of the decree of the trial court. The Stephen
.Aorgan, 94 U. S. 599.
The decree of the Court of Claims is
Aftirmed.

DELAND v. PLATTE COUNTY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES

FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. S2. Submitted November 13, 1894.-Decided December 8,1894.

Final judgments of Circuit Courts of the United States in actions of assumpsit can only be revised in this court on writ of error.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.MXr. George A. Sanders for appellant.
No appearance for appellee.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE:

This was an action of assumpsit brought

by F. N. Deland against the county of Platte to recover on
certain bonds and coupons in the petition set forth. The case
was submitted to the court for trial, a jury having been waived
by agreement of the parties. The court made findings of fact
and gave an opinion, which concluded thus: "On the facts of
this case I declare the law to- be that the plaintiff cannot
recover."
November 5, 1890, judgment was entered for the defendant,
preceded by the recital of a general finding in its favor.
Motion for new tri~l was made and overruled, and defendant

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

moved "for appeal, which motion was by the court sustained
and appeal allowed," and plaintiff was granted time for bill
of exceptions. The record then states that plaintiff presented
"his bond for appeal . . . which bond was approved by
the clerk and filed in said cause," but the bond is not set out.
Then follows an assignment of errors and bill of exceptions.
No writ of error was issued or citation signed, and no appearance has been entered for the county of Platte. The record
was filed in this court February .2, 1891.
In many jurisdictions an appeal from a court of general
jurisdiction is in the nature of a writ of error, but that is not
so in respect of the Circuit Courts of the United States, as to
which the distinction between the two modes of review has
generally, if not always, been observed in the acts of Congress.
Whatever the course pursued in the courts of the State of
Missouri under the statutes of that State in relation to the
allowance of appeals, the appellate jurisdiction of this court is
regulated by the acts of Congress, and final judgments of the
Circuit Court in cases such as this can only be revised on writ
of error.
Appeal dismi8sed.

LLOYD v. MATTHEWS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
No. $1. Argued and submited November 19, 1894.-

Decided December 3,184

In this court, acting under its appellate jurisdiction, whatever was matter
of fact in a state court, whose judgment or decree is under review, is
matter of fact here.

Whenever a court of one State is required to ascertain what effect a public
act of another State has in that other State, the law must be proved as a
fact.

When in the courts of a State the validity of a statute of another State is not
drawn in question, but only its construction, no Federal questioa arises.
The decision by the highest court of the State of Kentucky that the laws
of the State of Ohio permit an insolvent debtor to prefer a creditor,
which was made in a case in which the a.si,rnee of the insolvent, a party
to the suit contesting the preference, failed to plead the construction

given the Ohio statutes by the courts of Ohio, or to introduce the printed

