OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

Other illustrations will readily suggest themselves. The
concession involves a serious circumscription of the realm of
trade and destroys the rule by an unnecessary exception.
The right to import, export, or sell oleomargarine in the
original package under the regulations prescribed by Congress cannot be inhibited by such legislation as that before us.
Fluctuation in decision in respect of so vital a power as that
to regulate commerce among the several States, is to be deprecated, and the opinion and judgment in this case seem to me
clearly inconsistent with settled principles. I dissent from
the opinion and judgment, and am authorized to say that
MR. JUSTICE FIELD and AIR. JUSTICE BREWER concur with me
in so doing.

POSTAL TELEGRAPH

CABLE COMPANY v.

ALABAMA.
ERROR TO

THeE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

MIDDLE DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
No. 702. Submitted November 19, 1S94. -Decided

December 17, 1894.

Under the Judiciary Acts of the United States, a suit taken between a State
and a citizen or corporation of another State is not a suit between citizens of different States; and the Circuit Court of the United States has
no jurisdiction of it, unless it arises under the Constitution, laws, or
treaties of the United States.
Under the acts of March 3, 1887, c. 373, and August 13, 1888, c. 866, a case
(not depending on the citizenship of the parties, nor otherwise specially
provided for) cannot be removed from a state court into tile Circuit
Court of the United States, as one arising under the Constitution, laws,
or treaties of the United States, unless that appears by the plaintiff's
statement of his own claim; and, if it does not so appear, the want cannot be supplied by any statement in the petition for removal or in the
subsequent pleadings.

THIS was an action brought November 4, 1892, in the circuit court of M ontgamery County in the State of Alabama,
by the State of Alabama against the Postal Telegraph Cable
Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the State

POSTAL TELEGRAPH CABLE CO. v. ALABAMA.

483

Statement of the Case.

of New York, to recover taxes and penalties claimed by the
State of Alabama under its statute of February 28, 1889,
c. 103.
By that statute, it is enacted that ."all express and telegraph .and sleeping-car companies, doing business between
points wholly within this State, and without reference to their
interstate business, shall pay in advance on the first day of
January, in each year, to the auditor of the State of Alabama,
a privilege tax of five hundred dollars, together with one
dollar for each mile of telegraph line, or of railroad tracks,
on or along w hich the lines of said companies o.perate or extend; and no express or telegraph company, which has paid
the privilege tax hereby required, shall be liable to pay any
other privilege or other tax in this State, except licenses required by cities and towns, and except upon their real estate,
fixtures and other property, which shall be taxed at the same
rate as is now levied and collected upon other property in
this State: Provided, that all express or telegraph companies,
which have heretofore paid their taxes to the State under
existing laws, for the year 1889, are hereby exempt from the
provisions of this clause for said year: And provided further,
that all telegraph companies, whose lines on which business
is done wholly within the State do not exceed 150 miles, shall
pay, at the same time and in the same manner and for the
same purpose, a privilege tax at the rate of one dollar a mile
for each mile of railroad along or upon which they operate
or do business, and no more: And provided further, that said
company, or some agent thereof, shall, when making payment
of the tax hereinbefore mentioned, report under oath the
mileage of railroad operated by them respectively; and, in
default of the payment of said tax, or the making of said
report, for sixty days after maturity of said tax, a penalty of
double the amount of the same shall be imposed on such defaulting companies." Acts of Alabama of 1888-89, p. 89.
The complaint consisted of three counts, the first of which
was as follows:
"The plaintiff, the State of Alabama, claims of the defendant, the Postal Telegraph Company, a foreign corporation,

OCTOBER?

TERM, 1894.

Statement of the Case.

the sum of fifteen hundred -dollars; for that whereas heretofore, to wit, on the first day of January, 1890, and for more
than sixty days thereafter, the defendant did engage in the
business of a telegraph company between points wholly within
the State of Alabama, and did run and operate its lines on or
along two hundred and fifty miles of railroad track within
the State of Alabama, whereby it became and was the duty
of the defendant to pay in advance on the first day of January,
1890, to the auditor of the State of Alabama, a privilege tax
of five hundred dollars, together with the further sum of one
dollar for each mile of railroad track on or along which the
lines of the defendant as such telegraph company did operate
or extend, and at the same time to report under oath the
mileage of railroad track operated by it within the State of
Alabama; and the plaintiff avers that the defendant made
default in the payment of said tax, and in the making of said
report, for more than sixty days, whereby it became and was
and is liable to pay to the plaintiff a penalty in double the
amount of said tax, that is to say, a penalty of fifteen hundred
dollars, for which plaintiff here sues."
The second and third counts were precisely like the first,
except that the second substituted January 1, 1891, for January 1. 190 ; and that the third substituted January 1, 1892,
and alleged that the defendant operated its lines on or along
three hundred and twenty-eight miles of railroad track, and
became liable to pay to the plaintiff a penalty of $1656.
In December, 1892, the case was removed into the .Circuit
-Court of the United States for the Mliddle District of Alabama, under the act of Congress of March 3, 1887, c. 373, (24
Stat. 552,) as corrected by the act of August 13, 1888, c. 866,
(25 Stat. 43",) upon the petition of the defendant, alleging
that it was a corporation organized under the laws of the
State of New York in 1886 for the purpose of constructing,
owning, using, and operating electric telegraph lines within
that State, and extending beyond its limits into and across
other States and Territories, for the purpose of commercial
and interstate communication by telegraph lines for general
public use; that it had its principal executive, financial, and

POSTAL TELEGRAPH CABLE CO.

. ALABAMA.

485

Statement of the Case.

accounting offices in the city of New York; that it was
"engaged in the general telegraph business of receiving and
sending telegrams over its lines for commercial purposes for
the public, between citizens within the State of New York and
other States, and across the same to and from other places
within other States, and also in sending messages by telegraph
communication between the several departments of the government of the United States and their officers and agents at a
rate of charges designated and prescribed by the Postmaster
General of the Ufiited States under the laws of Congress;"
that on March 6, 1886, it accepted the provisions of the act of
Congress of July 24, 1866, c. 230, (now title 65 of the Revised Statutes,) and in pursuance thereof the Postmaster General of the United States had annually from time to time
designated it as one of the telegraph companies to transmit
government messages for the United States; that most of
its lines were upon- the post roads of the United States; that
now and during all these times it was a citizen and resident 6f
the State of New York; and "that the said action is a suit
of the civil nature at common law, in which the matter in
dispute and the interests involved. exceed, exclusive of the
interests and costs, the sum or value of two thousand dollars;
and that the controversy.therein arises under the Constitution
and laws of the United States ,and laws of the State of
Alabama, and is wholly between citizens of different States,
to wit, between your said petitioner, who avers that it was at
the time of the bringing of this suit and still is a citizen and
resident of the said State of New York, and the said plaintiff,
the said State of Alabama, who, your petitioner avers, was
then and still is a citizen and resident of the State of
Alabama."
In May, 1893, the defendant filedin the Circuit Court of
the United States an answer, setting up substantially the same
facts as in its petition for removal.
In January, 1891, the plaintiff filed an amended complaint,
claiming for each of the years 1890, 1891, and 1892, a privilege
tax of $500, and a penalty of $1816; and the defendant filed
an answer, similar to its original answer, and admitting the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

number of miles of telegraph line owned by it within the
State.
In February, 1894, the parties submitted the case to the
judgment of the court upon an agreed statement of facts, in
which the facts set up in the answer were admitted. The
court thereupon gave judgment for the plaintiff for the sum
of $3846.20; and the defendant sued out this writ of error.
_Mr. T. loultrie .Mordecai and 31r. P.
plaintiff in error.

f.

Gadsclen for

-tr. ]Tilliam L. .Martin, Attorney General of the State of
Alabama, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTiCu GrAY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

By section 1 of the act of Congress of -March 3, 1875, c. 137,
as amended by the acts of March 3, 1887, c. 373, and August
13, 1888, c. 866, it is enacted that the Circuit Courts of the
United States shall have original cognizance, concurrent with
the courts of the several States, of all suits of a civil nature, at
common law or in equity, where the matter in dispute exceeds,
exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or value of $2000, "and
arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States, or
treaties made, or which shall be made, under their authority;
or in which controversy the United States are plaintiffs or
petitioners; or in which there shall be a controversy between
citizens of different States;" "or a controversy between citizens of the same State claiming lands under grants of different States; or a controversy between citizens of a State and
foreign States, citizens or subjects." And by section 2, the
defendant's right to remove a suit - whether arising under
the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States, or
a
coming within any other class above enumerated -from
state court into the Circuit Court of the United States, is
restricted to suits "of which the Circuit Courts of the United
States are given original jurisdiction by the preceding section."
25 Stat. 434.

POSTAL TELEGRAPH CABLE CO. v. ALABAMA.

4S7

Opinion of the Court.

The grounds upon which the present suit was removed from
a court of the State of Alabama into the Circuit Court of the
United States were that the controversy therein arose under
the Constitution and laws of the United States, and that it
was wholly between citizens of different States.
But the suit was one brought by the State to recover taxes
and penalties imposed by its own revenue laws, the jurisdiction
over which belongs to its own tribunals, except so far as Congress, in order to secure the supremacy of the national Constitution and laws, has provided for a removal into the courts of
the United States. Wisconsin v. Pelican Ins. Co., 127 U. S.
265, 290; lluntington v. Attrill, 146 U. S. 657, 672. And the
complaint by which the suit was begun did not mention the
Constitution or any law of the United States, or claim any
right under either.
A State is not a citizen. And, under the Judiciary Acts of
the United States, it is well settled that a suit between a State
and a citizen or a corporation of another State is not between
citizens of different States; and that the Circuit Court of the
United States has no jurisdiction of it, unless it arises under
the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States. Ames
v. Eansas,111 U. S. 449; Stone v. South Carolina,117 U. S.
430; Germania -Ins.Co. v. Wisconsin, 119 U. S. 473.
It is equally well settled that under the provisions, above
referred to, of the existing act of Congress, no suit can be removed by a defendant from a state court into the Circuit
Court of the United States, as one arising under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States, unless the fact that
it so arises appears by the pliintiff's statement of his own
claim; and that a deficiency in his statement, in this respect,
cannot be supplied by allegations in the petition for removal,
or in subsequent pleadings in the case. Tennessee v. Bank
of Commerce, 152 U. S. 451; Cha2pell v. Waterworth, ante,
102.
The conclusion is inevitable, that the judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States must be reversed, and the
case remanded to that court, with directions to remand it to
the state court; and that, the case having been wrongfully

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

removed into the Circuit Court of the United States by the
Postal Telegraph Cable Company, that company must pay
the costs in that court, as well as in this court. Tennessee v.
Banke of Commerce, above cited; ilanrick v. 1Tanrick, 153
U. S. 192.
Judgment reversed accordingly.

EAST LAKE LAND COMPANY v. BROWN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR TIE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABA-MA.
No. 121. Submitted December 14, 1894. -Decided December 17, 1894.

Chappell v. WVaterworth, 155 U. S. 102, affirmed and applied to the point that,
under the acts of March 3, 1887, c. 373, and August 13, 1888, c. 866, a
case (not depending on the citizenship of the parties, nor otherwise
specially provided for) cannot be removed from a state court into tile
Circuit Court of the United States, as one arising under the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States, unless that appears by the
plaintiff's statement of his own claim ; and if it does not so appear, the
want cannot be supplied by any statement in. the petition for removal,
or in the subsequent pleadings.

THIS action was commenced in the City Court of Birmingham, Alabama. The complaint was as follows: "The plaintiff
sues to recover the following tract of land, the north half of
the southwest quarter of section fourteen (14), township seventeen (17), range two (2) west, in Jefferson County, Alabama,
of which it was possessed before the commencement of this
suit, and after such possession accrued the defendant entered
thereupon and unlawfully withholds and detains the same,
together with one thousand dollars for the detention thereof."
The defendant pleaded "not guilty," and petitioned for the
removal of the cause to the Circuit Court of the United States
on the ground "that said action was brought by the said East
Lake Land Company for the purpose of recovering from petitioner the possession of the N. -* of the S. W. I of section 14,
township 17, of range 2 west, in Jefferson County, Alabama, of

