OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Counsel for Plaintiffs in Error.

proceed to decision, and if error has been committed in entertaining the claimants' contention against the charterers in the
same suit with the libel against the ship, it may be corrected
on appeal. In re Fassett, Petitioner, 142 U. S. 479, 484;
-Moranv. Sturges, 154: U. S. 256, 286.
Writ of pro~ibitiondenied.

COOPEIR v. NEWELL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 129.

Submitted December 18, 1894.-Decided Janimry 7,1895.

Horne v. George.

Hammond Co., 155 U. S. 393, aflrmed and applied.

TREsPASs to try title.

The premises in dispute were alleged

in the plaintiff's petition to be "of the value of fifty thousand
dollars." The allegations therein respecting the citizenship of
the parties were as follows: "The petition of Stewart Newell,
a resident citizen of the city of New York, in the State of
New York, hereinafter styled plaintiff, complaining of Eliza
Cooper, B. P. Cooper, and Fannie Westrope, all residents of
Galveston County, in the State of Texas, and hereinafter styled
defendants." No other allegations on this point were made
below, and no question of jurisdiction was raised there. Verdict and judgment for plaintiff. Defendant sued out this writ
of error. In his brief, filed in this court, the counsel for the
plaintiffs in error said: " We here assign, as ground for
reversal, the further error that- the court had no jurisdiction of the cause, in that the citizenship of the defendants is
not disclosed by the record. The petition complains of
defendants ' all residents of Galveston County, in the State of
Texas.' Nothing further on the subject is reflected by the
record."
.Afr. F. CAarles Hume for plaintiffs in error.

COOPER v. NEWELL.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

Mr. John Ireland and Mr. A. H1Z. Garland for defendant
in error. Mr. Garland,in his brief, said:
Counsel for plaintiffs presents here to this court a question
which is not raised in the court below, and it is now for the
first time in the progress of the case suggested; and that is,
that there is no sufficient averment of the citizenship of the
defendant below to give the trial court jurisdiction of this
cause. It is true that the petition does not state with directness that defendants below were citizens of the State of Texas,
but if their citizenship can be sufficiently shown by the record,
that will be sufficient. In other words, it is not necessary, in
order to give the jurisdiction, that citizenship should absolutely
be averred in the petition or declaration. To use the language
of the Chief Justice in Railway Co. v. Ramsey, 22 Wall. 322,
328, "If, therefore, with these papers in the record the jurisdiction would appear, the judgment ought not to have been
arrested," we say, if the papers and proceedings in this record
show the citizenship, that would be quite sufficient." That
case has been affirmed and followed by this court in Briges v.
Sperry, 95 U. S. 401; Robertson v. Cease, 97 U. S. 646; and
G'ace v. American Ins. Co., 109 U. S. 278.
Now to the record : they are averred in the petition to be
residents; residence is prima facie evidence of citizenship.
Then the averment is distinct that they entered into possession
of the land in controversy, ejected Newell therefrom, and are
in possession of the land, and withhold it from him. Then
they are served with process where they are residents, and
they come and appear by attorney and plead to the 'merits
of the case. Ordinarily right here the question would end,
and they would not be permitted to raise the point of jurisdiction. Here is an express waiver of the question, and a virtual admission of citizenship. Upon this state of the case, to
say no more, it would appear that there was jurisdiction
aiiple and complete. And it is entirely too. late, in view of
these facts, to insist, upon the question here. Gassies v. BalIon, 6 Pet. 761; Express Co. v. lfointze Bros., 8 Wall. 342;
Bradstreet v. Thomas, 12 Pet. 59.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE:

The judgment is reversed and the

cause remanded to the Circuit Court for further proceedings,
upon the authority of Horne v. George H. -Hammond Comyany, ante, 393, and cases cited.
Reversed.

)BURKE v. AMERICAN LOAN AND TRUST COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 102. Argued December 4, 1894.-Decided January 7, 1895.

An agreement by a Finance Company to undertake the work of the reorganization of a railway company and the procuring of a loan to it is
held to have been executed by it so far as to entitle it to a commission
of ten per cent on the par value of the bonds issued by the company,
payable in such bonds at par.
ON January 23, 1887, a decree of foreclosure and sale was
entered in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Ohio, in the case of The American Loan
& Trust Company v. The Toledo, Oolumbus c Southern Railway Company and Theophilus P. Brown. In this decree
there was. a finding that on April 22, 1885, the defendant
railway company, owning a line of railway, with appurtenances, extending from Toledo to Findlay, had issued 825
bonds of $1000 each, and secured the same by a trust deed on
all its property, and that it had defaulted in the payment of
interest on the bonds; and an order for a sale of the property in satisfaction of the debt,-principal, and interest. On
October 16, 1888, the property was sold for the sum of
$600,000 to Stevenson Burke and Charles ilickox, who turned
in on their purchase 713 of the outstanding bonds, and at
the same time made claim of title to the remaining 112 not in
their possession. On February 4, 1889, the sale was confirmed,
and the dispute as.to the ownership of the bonds not surrendered was referred to a special master, who, on March 25, 1890,

