CASES ADJUDGED
IN

THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.

ROBB v. VOS.1
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN

DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 38. Argued March 7, 1894.-

Decided October 35,.1894.

When an attorney at law appears, without the knowledge or consent of his
principal, on behalf of a defendant of recora in an action at law of the
existence of which the principal is ignorant, and consents to judgment
and the issue of execution and the sale of the party's interest in real
estate thereunder, and such sale Is made, all the proceedings being regular on their face, the remedy of the injured party, when the facts come
to his knowledge, is in equity.
A Circuit Court of the United States has jursdctiornof such a suit in equity,
If the citizenship of the parties permits, although the-proceedings at law
under which the sale was made were had in a state court.
When a party has two remedies, inconsistent with each other, any decisive
act by him, done with knowledge of his rights and of the facts, determines his election of his remedy.
When a claim is founded upon an act done without the claimant's knowledge
and authority by a person assuming to act as his agent, the bringing of
an action by him based upon that act Is a ratification of it.
In this case it appeared that, after the said sale on execution of the plaintiff's interest In the realty, the proceeds passed, under order of court,
1 The docket title of this case is .7ohn Hampden Robb and Oharles E.
Strong, Trustees v. August Tros and William Stix.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.
into the hands of said attorney of record for the benefit of his principal;
and that the principal, after knowledge of all the facts, appeared in an
action in the state court to which he had been summoned, and set up a
claim to those proceeds, founded upon the proceedings under the judgment and execution. Held, that lie was estopped from proceeding in
equity, to set aside the sale on the ground that the attorney had no
authority to appear for him, and that this estoppel was not affected by
the fact that, before filing his bill in equity in the Circuit Court, he withdrew his pleading in the state court, and tiled instead tliereof a demurrer
which was sustained.
On the facts in this case detailed in the opinion it is further Held, that,
by the payment into court by the purchaser at the execution sale of the
amount of the principal and interest due the plaintiff in the equity suit,
and the conveyance of the lands to the purchaser, the latter became
vested with a fee simple to said lauds.

IN the year 1883, James Robb, a resident of Hamilton

County, Ohio, died, leaving an estate, and James Hampden
Robb, May R. Miltenberger, and Charlotte Al. Pancoast as his
surviving children. Charles A. Kebler, an attorney at Cincinnati, was appointed administrator. Mrs. Miltenberger and Ellen
W. Robb had claims against the estate. A written agreement was executed by all concerned in the following terms:
"For an amicable settlement of all claims and controversy as
to the estate of James Robb, deceased, late of Hamilton County,
Ohio, it is mutually agreed by the undersigned as follows:
"That Mrs. Miltenberger's claim for an annuity of one thousand dollars, in accordance with her agreement with her father
for her son's education from the time he became ten years of
age until he became twenty-one years of age, which is now in
suit No. 37,317 in the Superior Court of Cincinnati, and James
Hampden Robb's claim in suit No. 37,820 in the same court,
and Mrs. Ellen W. Robb's claim in suit No. 67,460 in the
court of common pleas of the said county of Hamilton, are all
hereby allowed by Charles A. Kebler, administrator, by and
with the consent of the undersigned and at their request, is
valid claims against said James Robb's estate, and shall be
satisfied and discharged in the manner hereinafter provided
and agreed to as to each of them, respectively; the claim of
Mary Robb in suit No. 67,459, common pleas, to be also provided for and discharged as hereinafter agreed.

ROBB v. VOS.
Statement of the Case.

"2. The deed which is alleged to have been made by the
said James Robb on or about November 11th, 1879, to his
daughter, Mrs. Isabella San Raman, conveying to her the
tract of land near Cheviot, then owned and occupied by him,
being without consideration and in consequence of his insolvency at that time wholly void as to his creditors, it is agreed
by Charles A. Kebler, as administrator of said estate, that in
pursuance of the statute in such case provided and by request
of the other subscriber hereto he shall and will immediately
bring an action for the recovery of the said land, or for the
sale of said land and avoidance of the said pretended conveyance for the benefit of said estate and its creditors.
"3. Besides the outstanding debts for personal and household expenses of James Robb, the cost of the monument
heretofore agreed by the undersigned to be erected at Spring
Grove Cemetery in memory of the said James Robb and all
the proper costs and expenses of the administration of his
estate and of the suit for the recovery of the land above mentioned, including the administrator's counsel's fees, shall first
be paid out of the moneys now in his hands.
"4. After paying the same the remaining moneys in his
hands and the proceeds of the sale of the land aforesaid, or so
much as necessary, shall be set apart and invested for two trust
funds, as follows: One of the said funds shall be made sufficient to pay Mrs. Miltenberger the amount already due of
said annuity, in compliance with the agreement made with
her father for account of her son's education, and also to yield
and pay the said annuity year by year until her son becomes
twenty-one years of age, if he lives, and the surplus of said
fund, if any remaining after he becomes of age, or in case he
dies before becoming of age, shall fall into the residuary estate
to be divided as hereinafter agreed; the other of the said trust
funds to be sufficient to secure and pay to Mrs. Ellen N. IRobb
an annuity of six hundred dollars ($600.00) for and during the
term of her life, payable semi-annually, and to commence
from the - day of
, A.D. k-, and from and after her
decease to pay the said Mary Robb, her daughter, if she survives her mother, an annuity of three hundred dollars ($300,)

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

payable semi-annually, for and during the term of the life of
said Mary, and that the annuities so to be paid to the said
Mary R. Miltenberger, Ellen W. lRobb, and Mary. Robb, respectively, shall be in fall satisfaction and discharge of all
their claims aforesaid as creditors of the said estate.
"The appointment of trustees and appropriation of funds
necessary and sufficient for the two trusts aforesaid shall be
effected as soon as practicable by the said Charles A. Kebler,
the administrator, and the parties concerned.
"5. All the pictures, library, letters and papers, plate and
other chattels, useful or ornamental, belonging to the said
estate shall be turned over to James Hampden Robb, reserving for Mrs. Charlotte Mv[. Pancoast some one article to be
agreed upon by them, which portions of the estate shall be
received and taken by the said James Hampden Robb in full
satisfaction and discharge of all his claim aforesaid as a creditor of the said estate.
"6. The residue, if any, of the moneys now in the administrator's hands and which shall arise from the sale of the real
estate aforesaid, after providing for said trusts, and also any
residue which may be left of the trust funds so set apart, after
fulfilling the said trusts respectively, shall be divided and paid
in four equal shares to and among the children and heirs of
the said James Robb, deceased, viz., James Hampden Robb,
Mrs. Isabella San Raman, Mrs. Mary R. Miltenberger, and
Mrs. Charlotte Mvi.Pancoast.
"It is understood that the foregoing agreement shall take
effect immediately upon the order of the court for the sale
of said real estate, and the setting aside the deed from James
Robb to Isabella San Raman herein referred to and not before.
"In witness whereof the said Charles A. Kebler, administrator of the said estate, Mary R. Miltenberger, Charlotte
M. Pancoast, James Hampden IRobb, Ellen M . Robb, and
Mary Robb have hereunto set our hands and seals in five
parts interchangeably this - day of June, in the year
1883."
In carrying out the settlement provided for in the said
agreement, ten thousand dollars in the hands of the adminis-

ROBB v. VOS.
Statement of the Case.

trator were invested in the purchase of certain pieces of real
estate in the city of Cincinnati from one Moritz Loth, who
conveyed the same to James Hampden iRobb and Charles E.
Strong, trustees, by a deed dated February 5, 1885. This deed
expfessed a consideration of ten thousand dollars as paid by
the said Robb and Strong, as trustees, but did not define a
trust or name any cestui que trust. By an instrument bearing
date the same day, Robb and Strong, trusteds, leased the same
property to Moritz Loth during the joint life of Ellen W. Robb
and Mary Robb, and during the life of the survivor, Loth, as
lessee, agreeing to pay to the trustees a rent of $500, payable
semi-annually, and to purchase the same property, on the
death of Mary and Ellen W. Robb, for the sum of $10,000.
Robb and Strong, the trustees, were residents of the city of
New York, and Ellen W. Robb, Mary Robb, and Moritz Loth
resided in Hamilton County, Ohio, and the deed and lease
were duly recorded in that county.
On March 30, 1885, Moritz Loth mortgaged his interest in
said property and in other real estate to one William Stix, to
secure a loan of ten thousand dollars.
In November, 1885, one Meyer Gugenheim, a judgment
creditor of Moritz Loth, brought an action in the Court of
Common Pleas of Hamilton County, Ohio, to suthect all the
real estate of Loth to the .satisfaction of his judgment, making parties defendant a number of creditors of Loth, who held
title to or liens upon the property claimed to be his, including
Robb and Strong, trustees, and William Stix. A summons in
that action was issued for Robb and Strong, trustees, and also
for William Stix, as well as for the other defendants. On the
19th day of November, 1885, Kebler accepted service of that
summons for Robb and Strong, trustees, and for William Stix,
as follows:
"We accept service of summons in the within cause for
Charles E. Strong and James Hampden Robb, trustees, and
for William Stix, this 19th November, 1885.
" KEBLER

&

ROELKER,

"Attorneysfor above-named defendants, ditly authorized."
VOL. cLv-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

The petition described various parcels of real estate claimed
to be the property of Loth, and asked that the several defendants be required to show what interest they respectively had
therein, and that the liens be marshalled and priorities determined, and a sale be made. As to the parcels owned by Robb
and Strong, as trustees, the petition averred that they held
the property only as security, and asked that the court so
find. As bearing on this averment, interrogatories were
attached to the petition, requiring IRobb and Strong, trustees,
to state what sum of money was paid to Loth as the consideration of the conveyance to them; what indebtedness
existed at the time of the conveyance in reference to said
property; whether any contract existed between them and
Loth in reference to the property, etc.
The sheriff returned the summons: "Service accepted by
Kebler & Roelker, attorneys for Charles E. Strong and James
Hampden Robb, trustees, and for William Stix, as per acceptance above written."
On December 18, 1885, Kebler filed the answer and crosspetition of Robb and Strong, trustees, correctly setting forth
their title to the premises, and prayed that their interest be
protected therein. He answered under oath the interrogatories as attorney for Robb and Strong, trustees, assigning as
a reason "therefor that they were non-residents of the State
and absent therefrom.
Kebler also filed in the same case the answer and crosspetition of said William Stix, and at a later stage of the case
he filed an amended answer and cross-petition of William Stix
setting up the maturity of several of the mortgage notes,
breach of condition of the mortgage, and prayed a sale of the
leasehold in the premises now in controversy, and of other
property mentioned in that cross-petition. To these pleadings
of Stix, Kebler filed answers for Robb and Strong, trustees,
which he himself swore to.
On February 15, 1887, he consented to an elaborate decree
on the cross-petition of William Stix, selling all the property
described in the petition, and appointing George Sidney Tyler
master commissioner to make the sale. That part of the

ROBB v. VOS.
Statement of the Case.

decree which referred to Robb and Strong, trustees, was as
follows:
"And it is ordered with the consent of Henry W. Taylor,
and Charles E. Strong, and James Hampden Robb, trustees,
that the fee-simple title of the premises described in said mortgage to William Stix be sold and said premises be sold freed
from the claims of Henry W. Taylor, and Charles E. Strong,
and James Hampden Robb, trustees, and all other parties in
this suit, their respective rights in and to said premises being
transferred to and reserved in the proceeds of such sale."
By proceedings under this decree, on April 16,-1887, the
property in question was sold, a part thereof to August Vos
and a part to William Stix, and on May 24, 1887, conveyed,
by a master, to them in fee simple, Vos paying into court the
amount of his bid, $9100, and Stix paying $3131.32.
In the final decree of distribution it was ordered that the
sum of $11,361.66, being pr.incipal and interest, should be paid
over by the master to Robb and Strong, trustees, or Kebler,
Roelker & Jelke, attorneys, and $7926.02 to William Stix or
Kebler, Roelker & Jelke, attorneys, and those sums were paid
to Charles A. Kebler, attorney.
On June 23, 1887, Charles A. Kebler gave to F. G. iRoelker
a conveyance of lands as security for moneys due by Kebler
to Roelker, and also to indemnify the latter against any loss
he might sustahi or liability that he might be under by reason
of the partnership business of Kebler & iRoelker, attorneys.
On November 25, 1887, Charles A. Kebler died by his own
hand, intestate and insolvent.
In January, 1888, in the Court of Common Pleas of Hamilton County, Ohio, at No. 79,812, William J. Coppock, as administrator of Charles A. Kebler, deceased, filed a petition
setting forth, among other things, the death of Kebler intestate and insolvent; that there Was a large amount of real
estate which it was necessary to sell in order to provide means
to pay debts; that.certain persons bad, or claimed to have,
title to or liens against said real estate, etc. The minor children of Kebler and F. G. IRoelker were made parties defendant.
To this petition Roelker filed an answer, in which he alleged

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

the existence of the conveyance or mortgage made to him
in June, 1887, by Kebler, and that J. Hlampden Robb and
Charles E. Robb, as trustees, claimed to have had dealings
with Charles A. Kebler, acting and professing to act as a
partner of him, the said Roelker, whereby they claimed that
the said partnership and the said IRoelker were indebted to
them; that he, the said Roelker, did not know, and was
unable to state, the particulars of said transactions; that they
were concealed from him by the said Charles A. Kebler during
his lifetime, etc.; and that he, Roelker, if liable by reason of
said transactions, was entitled to the protection of the said
conveyance of June, 1887; and he further alleged that the
said Robb and Strong, trustees, were necessary parties to the
determination of the rights of the parties to the litigation,
and asked that they be made defendants and be called upon
to answer and to set up their claims, etc.
In this suit IRobb and Strong, trustees, appeared and filed
an answer and a cross-petition, in which they set forth the
particulars of their title to or interest in the lands described
in their conveyance to Moritz Loth and the lease of the latter
to them, and the proceedings in the Gugenheim case. In
respect to that case their averments were as follows:
"And these defendants further say that on said day one
Meyer Gugenheim, having recovered by the consideration of
this court a judgment against the said Moritz Loth, brought
suit in this court, case No. - in this court, against the said
Moritz Loth, and the defendants and divers other persons,
praying, among other things, that these defendants may be
declared to hold said lands by way of mortgage as security
for the said purchase price on said lands of $10,000, and that
said lands might be free from the claim of these defendants
and all other persons parties thereto to satisfy the said judgment of the said Meyer Gugenheim and the claims of divers
persons therein made defendants.
"And these defendants further say that thereafter, to wit,
on the 18th day of December, 1885, Charles A. Kebler and
Frederick G. Roelker, then partners engaged in the practice of
law under the firm name and style of Kebler & iRoelker, of

ROBB v. VOS.
Statement of the Case.

the city -of Cincinnati, entered the appearance of these defendants in such cause and filed an answer therein on behalf
of these defendants; further say therefore, to wit, upon the
10th day of May, 1887, said firm of Kebler & "Roelker was
dissolved, and Charles A. Kebler, Frederick G. iRoelker, and
Ferdinand Jelke, Jr., entered into a partnership and engaged
in the practice of law in the city of Cincinnati under the firm
name and style of Kebler, Roelker & Jelke, as the successors
of said .firm of Kebler & IRoelker, and these defendants say
that thereafter all steps in said cause on behalf of these defendants were taken by said firm of Kebler, IRoelker & Jelke,
and by none others; and these defendants further say that
such proceedings were afterwards had in said cause that the
said premises were sold, free of the claims of these defendants
and of all other persons whatsoever, by one George SidneyTyler,
who was appointed special master commissioner by this court in
said cause for the purpose of making such sale, and such proceedings were thereafter had in said cause that a decree ivas
made in said cause on the 19th day of May, 1887, whereby it
was ordered, adjudged, and decreed that said George Sidney
Tyler, special master commissioner in said cause, pay to these
defendants or their counsel, Kebler, Roelker & Jelke, out of
the proceeds of said sale, the sum of $11,361 ; and these defendants further say that said sum was duly paid on the 16th
day of June, 1887, to said firm of Kebler, Roelker & Jelke by
said George Sidney Tyler, special master commissioner, as
ordered by the decree of said court, and that no portion thereof
has been paid to these defendants or accounted for to them;
and these defendants further say that since which time, to
wit, on the 23d .day of November, 1887, Charles A. Kebler
departed this life, and that Frederick G. Roelker and Ferdinand
Jelke, Jr., are the surviving partners of said firm. Wherefore
these defendants pray that said Ferdinand Jelke, Jr., may be
made party defendant hereto and that it may be adjudged
that these defendants are creditors of said firm of Kebler,
Roelker & Jelke, and that the property in the petition and
cross-petition of Frederick G. Roelker.sought to be sold may be
sold, and that out of the proceeds thereof said sum $11,361.66,

- OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

with interest from the 16th day of June, 1887, may be paid
to these defendants, and that these defendants may recover
judgment against Frederick G. Roelkerand Ferdinand Jelke,
Jr., as surviving partners of Kebler, IRoelker & Jelke, for said
sum of $11,361.66, with interest from the 16th day of June,
1887, and for their costs."
Subsequently, on May 17, 1888, Robb and Strong, trustees,
obtained leave of court to withdraw their said answer and
cross-petition, and filed a demurrer on the ground that they
were not proper parties to the case, which demurrer was sustained by the court, and Robb and Strong were, on May 26,
1888, dismissed with their costs.
On May 12, 1888, Robb and Strong, trustees, at No. 43,368
of the Superior Court of Cincinnati, Hamilton County, Ohio,
brought a suit against August Vos and William Stix. In the
petition, after reciting the conveyance by themselves to Moritz
Loth and the lease of the latter to them, they set forth the
proceedings in the Gugenheim case,- and alleged as follows:
"And the plaintiffs further say that on said day one Meyer
Gugenheim, having recovered by the consideration of the
Court of Common Pleas of kfamilton County, Ohio, a judgment
against the said Moritz Loth, brought suit in the said Court of
Common Pleas, numbered 74,375 in the said court, against the
said Moritz Loth and these plaintiffs and divers other persons,
praying, among other things, that these plaintiffs might be
declared to hold said lands by way of mortgage as security
for the said purchase price of said lands of $10,000, and that
the said lands might be sold free from any claims of these
plaintiffs and all other persons parties thereto, to satisfy the
judgment of the said Meyer Gugenheim and the claims of the
divers other persons therein made defendants.
"And these plaintiffs further say that in said cause no summons or other process was ever issued for these plaintiffs (who
then were and ever since have been non-residents of Ohio) and
no advertisement was ever made for these plaintiffs, and that
they had no notice of said proceedings; and these plaintiffs
further say that thereafter, to wit, on the 18th day of December, 1885, one Charles A. Kebler, then engaged in the prac-

ROBB v. VOS.
Statement of the Case.

tice of the law with one Frederick G. Roelker, under the firm
name and style of Kebler & Roelker in the said city of Cincinnati, did, without authority from the plaintiffs and without
their knowledge, enter the appearance of these plaintiffs in
said case, and did file an answer therein on behalf of these
plaintiffs, using for that purpose said firm name of Kebler &
Roelker.
"And these plaintiffs further say that thereafter, to wit,
prior to the 11th day of May, 1887, the said firm of Kebler
& Roelker was dissolved, and the said Charles A. Kebler, the
said Frederick G. Roelker, and one Ferdinand Jelke, Jr., entered into a partnership and engaged in the practice of the
law in said city of Cincinnati, under the firm name and style
of Kebler, iRoelker & Jelke, as successors to the said firm of
Kebler & IRoelker; and these plaintiffs further say that thereafter all steps in said cause purporting to be on behalf of these
plaintiffs were taken in the name of the said firm of Kebler,
Roelker & Jelke.
"And these plaintiffs further say that all steps taken in said
cause at any time purporting to be on behalf of these plaintiffs
were taken without the knowledge of these plaintiffs and without any authority from these plaintiffs; and these plaintiffs
say that all orders, decrees, and judgments entered in said
cause purport to have been entered by and with the consent
of these plaintiffs, but that the same were entered by the said
Kebler, Roelker & Jelke, and without the knowledge, consent,
or the authority of these plaintiffs, and that these plaintiffs
had no knowledge of said cause or the institution thereof, or
of any proceeding therein, until December 2, 1887, being long
after the conveyance of said lands to the purchasers thereof,
in pursuance of the pretended sale made in said case.
"And these plaintiffs further say that such proceedings
were had in said cause No. 74,375, that .the said premises
were sold by one George Sydney Tyler, who was appointed
special master commissioner by said Court of Common Pleas
for the purpose of making said sale of property, and that Raid
special master commissioner purported to make said sale free
of the claims of these plaintiffs and of all other persons what-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

ever parties to said cause, and that the said parcels of land
were purchased, respectively, at said sale by the said August
Vos, purchasing lots numbered 3, 4, and 5, hereinbefore described, of the subdivision of the tract of land on the west
side of Vine Street, 100 feet front and extending back westwardly 132 feet, of the same width in front as in rear, and the
said William Stix purchasing the other lots hereinbefore described, to wit, all those parts of lots 2, 4, and 5, of block 12
of Findlay and Ludlow subdivision, hereinbefore described.
"And these plaintiffs further say that in said cause numbered 74,375'a decree was made on the 19th day of May, 1887,
whereby it was ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the said
George Sydney Tyler, special master commissioner in said
case, pay to these plaintiffs, or to Kebler, Roelker & Jelke,
purporting to be their attorneys in said cause, out of the proceeds of said sale, the sum of $11,361.66.
"'Andthese plaintiffs further say, that thereafter, on the
16th day of June, 1887, the said George Sydney Tyler, special
master commissioner, as ordered by the decree of said court,
but without the knowledge and consent of these plaintiffs and
without their authority, did pay to the said Kebler, Roelker
& Jelke, and the said Kebler, Roelker & Jelke received, the
said sum of $11,361.66, and that no portion of the said sum
has been received by these plaintiffs or been accounted for to
them.
"And these plaintiffs say that they were never parties to
said cause in law or in fact, and that the said sale as to them
is null and void.
"IAndthese plaintiffs further say that the said transactions
between them and said Moritz Loth were in truth and in fact
a loan by them to the said Moritz Loth of the sum of $10,000,
in consideration whereof the said Moritz Loth conveyed to
them the premises hereinbefore described, and they executed
to the said Moritz Loth the lease hereinbefore described, containing the privilege of purchase for the said sum of $10,000;
and they say that in consequence thereof they have a first and
best lien upon the said premises in the said sum of $10,000, with
interest thereon, and that there is and remains due and unpaid

ROBB v. VOS.
Statement of the Case.

thereon the sum of $10,000, with interest thereon from January
1, 1885, at six per cent per annum.
"Wherefore the plaintiffs pray that the said claim may be
established as a first and best lien on the said premises, and
that unless the defendants shall pay to them the said sum of
$10,000, with interest as aforesaid, at a short day to be fixed
by the court, that the said premises may be sold for the satisfaction of their said claim, and for such other and further
relief as they may show themselves to be entitled to in equity
and good conscience."
In the Superior Court case, summons was issued May 12,
1888, and served on August Vos, May 18, 1888.
On June 7, 1888, Vos filed his answer and cross-petition in
said case, denying that the alleged acts of Kebler for the said
Robb and Strong, trustees, in the Gugenheim case were with
out their authority, knowledge, or consent, admitting the sale
to him under the proceedings in that case, and that the transactions between them and said loth were in fact a loan by
them to him of $10,000 at six per cent interest secured in the
form of said deed and lease, but denying that they have any
lien on said premises therefor or that any part thereof remains
unpaid. By way of cross-petition, the said Vos set up the
proceedings in the said Gugenheim case, and averred their
regularity, and that said proceedings, orders, decrees, sale,
and deed vested in him a valid title in fee simple to the said
real estate purchased by him thereunder, free from all claims
of said appellants and other parties to said cause, his payment
therefdr of $9100, and his possession thereof ever since the
conveyance to him, M ay 2-, 1887. He prayed "that the
said claim and interest of the said Robb and Strong, trustees,
in and to said real estate may be adjudged to be null and
void, and that his title aforesaid may be quieted against the
same, and for all other proper relief."
On June 8, 1888, upon motion of said Robb and Strong,
trustees, their said petition was dismissed, and as to the said
cross-petition of Vos, the cause was continued for further proceedings. On July 7, 1888, the said Robb and Strong, trustees, filed their petition in said cause 43,368, Superior Court

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

of Cincinnati, for a removal of the same on the cross-petition
of said Vos to the Circuit Court of the United States, in and
for the Southern District of Ohio, Western Division, and the
order of removal was made.
In said petition they say that they are citizens and residents
of the State of New York; that Auugust Vos is a citizen and
resident of the State of Kentucky, and William Stix is a citizen and resident of the State of Missouri. They further say
that the said suit "is one of a civil nature, where the matter
in dispute exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the value
of $2000, and is one in which there is a controversy on crosspetition between citizens of different States." They then
state the facts, in substance, averred in their said petition
filed May 12, and in said cross-petition of August Vos, the
dismissal of their said petition, June 8, and their remaining
in the case only as defendants to said cross-pelition of Vos.
On October 2, 1888, the transcript of the record in said case
was filed in the said Circuit Court, and numbered therein
4182.
On October 4, 1888, the said Vos filed his motion in said
Circuit Court for the remanding of said cause No. 4182 to the
Superior Court of Cincinnati, for want of jurisdiction in said
Circuit Court.
On November 17, 1888, the Circuit Court overruled said
motion. To which overruling the said X'os then entered his
exception.
On November 26, 1889, on motion of the said complainants,
said cause No: 4182 was consolidated by order of court -with
cause No. 4148, all further proceedings to be had under the
latter number.
In 1\o. 4148, complainants' bill stated the citizenship and
residence of the parties as in their petition in the Superior
Court case. They were all non-citizens and non-residents of
Ohio. It alleged that said Robb and Strong, trustees, owned
certain *valuable real estate in the city of Cincinnati, Ohio,
which was in the possession of tenants under a lease for the
life of two persons for whom said trustees acted. A judgment
creditor of the lessee sought by judicial proceedings in the

ROBB v. VOS.
Statement of the Case.

Court of Common Pleas of Hamilton County, Ohio, to subject
his interest in these and other lands to payment of his claim.
The petition was in the nature of a creditor's bill, and made
parties defendant a number of persons, including said trustees,
holding deeds from the lessee, and charged tha these deeds
were intended as mortgages, and prayed that they be so
decreed, and the property sold to satisfy said judgment.
The trustees were non-residents, and Kebler, of the law
firm of Kebler & IRoelker, and purporting to act for that
firm, entered their appearance in the case and consented to
a sale of the fee, it was alleged, without their authority or
knowledge. The property was sold at judicial sale, and the
proceeds received by Kebler and not paid over or accounted
for by him to said trustees. The defendants, Vos and Stix,
were purchasers. The bill sought to avoid the title so acquired by them, on the ground that the sale was absolutely
void by reason of the fraud of Kebler.
On August 2, 1888, the defendant, Vos, filed a demurrer to
said bill.
On August 28, 1888, the court held the bill "good on its
face substantially," and overruled the demurrer, and allowed
Vos until the first Monday of October, 1888, to plead or
answer to the bill.
On September 14, 1888, Vos filed a plea to said bill, setting forth the judicial proceedings referred to in said bill,
and contained in Exhibits "A," "B,) "C," and "D," made
part thereof, under which he purchased and acquired title, that
he was "a bona fide purchaser of said premises for a good and
valuable consideration, and without notice or knowledge that
the acts and proceedings of said Charles A. Kebler and of
the firm of Kebler & Roelker on behalf of said complainants,
alleged in said bill, were unauthorized by said complainants
and without their knowledge, or that said complainants did
not consent to said sale, or of the alleged fraud on the part
of said Kebler;" and that he had no such notice until after
May 12, 1888, when said complainants filed their said petition
in the Superior Court of Cincinnati:
On September 27, 1888, the court overruled said plea, to

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

which said Vos entered his exception, and was allowed thirty
days to answer, which time was, on November 26, 1888, extended to December 10, 1888.
On December 8, 1888, said Vos filed his answer to said
bill.
In this answer Vos admitted specifically all the allegations
of said bill, except the following, which he denied, to wit:
He denied that the said Kebler and Kebler & Roelker had
no authority to accept service of summons for said complainants in said Gugenheim case. He denied that said complainants had notice or knowledge of their answer and
cross-petition in said case filed by said Kebler, or of their
answer to the cross-petition of William Stix filed therein by
said Kebler, or that said Kebler was not authorized to file
the same. He denied that said Robb and Strong, trustees,
did not consent that said premises 'should be sold free from
their claim and title thereto, or-that said claim and title
should be transferred to or reserved in the proceeds of sale
to be made under said decree, or that said Kebler and Kebler
& Roelker had no authority to make or give such consent for
them. He denied that said complainants had no knowledge
of the order of distribution of the proceeds of said sale made
in said cause, or of the payment of said sum of $11,361.66
to said Kebler, or that said Kebler was not authorized to
receive said sum, or that the order of court directing such
payment was null and void. He denied that said Kebler was
wholly insolvent at all times mentioned in said bill. He
denied that prior to or at the time of his purchase of said
premises he knew complainants were absent from the State
of Ohio, or non-residents of said State during the time of
said proceedings. He denied that the proceedings and acts
taken and done in said cause, purporting to be on behalf of
said complainants, were without authority, notice, or knowledge, or that they were done solely by fraud of said Kebler,
or that they were ignorant of said suit and the proceedings
therein and of the receipt of said money by said.Kebler until
after his death. He denied that the said decree in said cause
was null and void as to said complainants, or that the said

ROBB v. VOS.
Statement of the Case.

Court of Common Pleas was without jurisdiction to order the
said premises sold free from their claim and title, or that said
sale and conveyance to him by said Tyler were null and
void. He denied that no rent had been paid under said lease'
since February 5, 1886, or that there was due and unpaid rent
since that date at the rate of $600 per annum, or that said
complainants had any lien on said premises therefor.
Of the truth of the charge in said bill, that the said Kebler
embezzled and appropriated said sum of $11,361.66 to his own
use, and that said complainants received no part of the same,
or of the charge therein that said Loth was insolvent, the
defendant averred that he had no knowledge, and did not
admit the same.
Admitting that he had failed and refused to perform any of
the covenants and conditions of said lease as charged in said
bill, he averred that he was under no obligation to perform the
same, but that, by virtue of said sale and conveyance to him
of the premises so purchased by him and the consideration of
$9100, which he paid therefor, he acquired a perfect title to
said premises in fee simple, including all the right, title, and
interest of both said lessors and said lessee, and free from the
claims of all the parties to said suit.
Further.answering, said Vos averred that at the time said
deed was-made by said Loth to said iRobb and Strong, trustees,
and said lease by them back to him, the transaction was understood and intended to be in fact a mortgage to secure an
investment then made of $10,000 by said trustees for the purpose of furnishing an income to the said Ellen W. and Mary
Robb; that at the same time it was understood and agreed
between said trustees and said Kebler, and said Kebler &
IRoelker, that the said Kebler should have entire charge of
said investment and collection of said rent or interest and pay
same. directly to said Ellen W. and Mary Robb, with full
authority to act for said trustees in carrying out said trust in
all matters required for the protection and collection of said
interest and principal, and in pursuance thereof, that he did,
with the knowledge and consent of said trustees, collect interest
on said $10,000, paid as rent from February 5, 18S5, down to

OCTOBER TERIM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

November 1, 1887, and paid the same over to said Ellen W.
and Mary Robb, and that he had also paid over to the said
Ellen W. Robb and Mary Robb a portion of said sum of
$11,361.66, but how much thereof exactly he could not
state.
And, further answering, said Vos averred that any alleged
want of authority on the part of said Kebler, or Kebler &
Roelker, to do any and all of the acts by him or said firm done
and in said bill mentioned, was supplied, and all such acts purporting to be done on behalf of said complainants, were ratified by them as follows: Said complainants, on March 2,
1888, in the Court of Common Pleas of H-amilton County,
Ohio, in the case of William J. Coppock, Administrator, v.
John Kebler et al., No. 79,812, on the docket of said court,
voluntarily entered their appearance and filed their answer
and cross-petition ; and again, on April- 10, 1888, in the same
court, in the case of William J. Coppock, Administrator, v.
John Kebler et al., No. 79,902, on the docket of said court,
said complainants having, on cross-petition of Frederick G.
Roelker, been made parties defendant in said cases, voluntarily entered their appearance and filed their answer and
cross-petition in each of said cases, being in the same language,
and in each case averring that said Charles A. Kebler, for his
firm of Kebler & Roelker, had entered the appearance of said
Robb and Strong, trustees, in said action in the bill mentioned, brought by said Gugenheim, and had filed an answer
therein on their behalf, and that on May 11, 1887, said firm of
Kebler & Roelker had been dissolved, and had been succeeded
by the firm of Kebler, Roelker & Jelke, composed of said
Kebler and Roelker and Ferdinand Jelke, Jr., and that thereafter all steps taken in said cause on behalf of said Robb and
Strong, trustees, were taken by said new firm; and that in
the case aforesaid, brought by said Gugenheim, the premises
in the said bill herein described had, pursuant to decree made
therein, been sold by George Sidney Tyler, special master
commissioner appointed by the court for that purpose, free
from the claims of said Robb and Strong, trustees, and all

ROBB v. VOS.
Statement of the Case.

other persons whomsoever; averring further, that the decree
had been made in said cause on May 19, 1887, whereby it was
ordered, adjudged, and decreed that said special master commissioner should pay to said Robb and Strong, trustees, or
their counsel; Kebler, Roelker & Jelke, out of the proceeds of
said sale, the sum of $11,361.65; and further averring, that
said sum had been by said special master commissioner, on
June 16, 1887, duly paid to said firm, but no portion thereof
had by said firm been paid or accounted for to said Robb and
Strong, trustees; and further averring, that, on November
23, 1887, said Charles A. Kebler had deceased, and that said
Roelker & Jelke were the surviving partners of said firm of
Kebler, Boelker & Jelke, and praying that said Jelke might
be made party defendant to said causes ; and that it might
be adjudged that said Robb and Strong, trustees, were creditors of said firm of Kebler, Roelker & Jelke; and that the
property in the petition and cross-petition of said Roelker
sought to be sold might be sold, and that out of the proceeds
thereof said sum of $11,361.65, with interest from June
16, 1887, might be paid to said Robb and Strong, trustees;
and that said Robb and Strong, trustees, might recover
judgment against said Roelker & Jelke, as surviving partners of said Kebler, Roelker & Jelke, for said sum and
interest.
And, further answering, said Vos averred that said answers
and cross-petitions were sworn to by the said James Hampden
Robb, and were signed and filed by the duly authorized attorneys of the said Robb and Strong, trustees, that the same
remained on file in said cases until May 16, 1888, when, said
cases having in the meantime been consolidated April 21,
1888, (Record, p. 164,) said Robb and Strong, trustees, filed a
demurrer to said cross-petition of Frederick G. Roelker, on
the ground that they had been improperly joined as defendants thereto; and thereafter, until May 28, 1888, when said
demurrer was sustained, and said Robb and Strong, trustees,
were dismissed from said cases. A copy of said answers and
cross-petitions was filed with the answer of said defendant,
William Stix, to said bill, to which copy the said Vos makes

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

reference and incorporates said copy in this his answer as part
thereof.
Said Vos further averred that at the time of swearing to
said answers and cross-petitions and filing them, said Robb
and Strong, trustees, had full knowledge of all things and acts
done in their behalf by said Kebler, and IKebler & Roelker,
and Kebler, Roelker & Jelke, and they deliberately adopted
them as done on their behalf and ratified them, and supplied
all lack of previous authority upon the part of said Kebler,
and Kebler & Roelker, and Kebler, Roelker & Jelke, if any
such there previously had been, which he, said Vos, denied.
And thereupon said Vos prayed to be hence dismissed.
On the same day, December 8, 1888, the said August Vos
filed in said Circuit Court and in said cause No. 4148 his.
cross-bill against the said James Hampden lRobb and Charles
E. Strong, trustees, William Stix and Moritz Loth, stating
fully the facts alleged in said bill of IRobb and Strong, trustees,
whiclh were admitted in his answer to said bill; also the facts
set forth in his said answer; also averring that on May 24,
1887, he entered into possession of the premises so purchased
and conveyed to him, and had had possession thereof ever
since, and had expended a large amount of money thereon in
repairs and permanent improvements, which he was ready to
show to the court ; also referring "to the petition hereinbefore
mentioned, filed in 'a cause brought by said Robb and Strong,
trustees, May 12, 1888, in the Superior Court of Cincinnati,
No. 43,368,-removed to said Circuit Court and then on the
docket thereof, No. 4182, in which they averred that the said
transactions between them and said Loth -the deed and lease
-were
in truth and in fact a loan by them to said Loth of
$10,000, for which sum and interest thereon they had a first
and best lien upon said premises. Reference was made to the
certified copy of said petition contained in the transcript of
the record in said case 43,368, Superior Court of Cincinnati,
on file in said Circuit Court in said case No. 4182, and the
same incorporated therein.
Vos prayed that, in the event it be found by the court that
the said acts done by said Kebler, or Kebler & Roelker, or

ROBB v. VOS.
Statement of the Case.

Kebler, Roelker & Jelke, were unauthorized by and not ratified by and not binding on said Robb and Strong, trustees,
and the said judgments, orders, and decrees of said Court of
Common Pleas void as to them, and that he acquired no title
by his purchase and deed of the said real estate, it should be
decreed that the deed and lease aforesaid constituted only a
mortgage to secure to said Robb and Strong, trustees, the payment of said $10,000 and interest, and that an account be
taken to ascertain what proportion of said sum and interest
ought justly to be borne by him as chargeable against the
land covered by said mortgage purchased by him, taking into
accourit the payments which it might be found said Kebler, or
Kebler & Roelker, or Kebler, Roelker & Jelke, had made on
account of said interest and principal, or out of said sum of
$11,361.65, to said Ellen W. Robb and Mary Robb, which
proportionate sum that might be so found he thereby offered
and.agreed to pay as said Circuit Court should direct.
On December 21, 1888, said Robb and Strong, trustees,
filed their general replication to the answer of said Vos in No.
4148.
On February 16, 1889, said Robb and Strong, trustees, filed
their answer to the said cross-bill of August Vos, in which
they denied that said Vos was an innocent purchaser for valuable consideration, without notice of the want of authority
from the said Kebler, or Kebler & Roelker, or of the want of
consent of said Robb and Strong, as trustees, to the decree
of sale in the said Gugenheim case; and they denied that any
of the acts of said Kebler, or Kebler & Roelker, or Kebler,
Roelker & Jelke, had been ratified by any act of said Robb
and Strong, as trustees. As to whether the said transaction,
whereby the said Loth conveyed to them said property for
$10,000, and they leased the same back to him, was a loan,
and whether said conveyance should be regarded as a mortgage, and to be foreclosed as such, they left the same to the
determination of -the court upon the proof to be made by said
August Vos of the allegations of his said -cross-bill.
They also denied any authority on the part of said Kebler,
or Kebler & Roelker, to collect said rent, or to act for them
voL. CLV-3

OCTOBER TERMI,

1894.

Argument for Appellants.

in the collection of said interest or principal; and they denied
that said Kebler collected any of the interest of said $10,000,
and paid the same to Ellen W. Robb and -Mary Robb, and if
he did so, that he was authorized to collect the said principal.
On February 23, 1889, said Vos filed a general replication
to said answer of Robb and Strong, trustees, to his cross-bill.
The defendant, William Stix, did not file any demurrer or
special plea to said bill, but otherwise filed pleadings substantially the same as those filed by August Vos.
On the final hearing, November 26, 1889, upon the pleadings and evidence, the court found the equity of the case with
the defendants, and that the complainants had ratified said
Kebler's want of authority, and therefore decreed the dismissal of the bill; and also that the title of Vos should be
quieted against the complainants, as prayed for in his crosspetition.
.Mr. Edward Colston, (with whom were Mr. Judson Barmon. and .Xr. George H-oadly, Jr., on the brief,) for appellants,
on the question of election and ratification said:
It is claimed that Robb and Strong, trustees, by filihg an
answer and cross-petition in the Coppock case, ratified Kebler's want of authority, and thereby made the title of Vos and
Stix to the land in question good.
Ratification being thus asserted and denied, the question is,
whether the mere fact that Robb and Strong, trustees, filed
an answer and cross-petition in the Coppock case furnishes,
under the circumstances, conclusive evidence that they did
thereby elect to abandon their title, as trustees, to this land,
and to adopt in lieu thereof the chance of recovering some, or
it may be all, or it may be none, of the money from Kebler's
assets or from Kebler's partners by means of the Coppock case.
The court below decided in the affirmative and accordingly
dismissed the bill on that ground.
We claim that there is in this record no evidence of an intelligent and intentional ratification of the acts of Kebler and
of deliberate choice actually made to look solely to what

ROBB v. VOS.
Argument for Appellants.

might be got out of the Coppock case. It is not pretended
that there was any express ratification, and, therefore, if any
ratification there was, it must be implied. This presents a
question of fact, not- of law. Ratification and election rest
upon intention. The answer and cross-petition of Robb and
Strong, which is claimed to operate as a ratification, was not
a suit begun by them, but only a pleading filed in an action in
which they had been summoned as defendants, for a limited
purpose, by the cross-petition of Frederick G. Roelker. Roelker did not claim it was necessary to bring in Robb and
Strong, trustees, in order to determine the question whether
they had any claim upon "the subject-matter in this case. ' ?
The precise language of Roelker's cross-petition is that Robb
and Strong, trustees, "are necessary parties-to the determination of the right of plZaintif(Coppock) and of this defendant
(Roelker) to the subject-matter of the litigation in this cause."
Roelker did not aver that Robb and Strong, trustees, had
any claim to participate in his indemnity fund or that they
had asserted a right to avail themselves thereof. He recognized no rights of iRobb and Strong in that fund nor to any
relief in the case. Their presence was averred to be necessary
only to determine rights between Coppock and him. Roelker
acted on the idea that it was necessary to have Robb and
Strong before the court to enable him to establish his lien
upon the Kebler assets to an extent that would protect him
against the Robb and Strong claim should they make it, and
not in order to afford them an opportunity to assert any right
of theirs. But in reality their presence was not necessary
even for this purpose; and the court so decided, and they were
dismissed. It is true that Robb and Strong, in their answer,
overlooking the purpose for which they had been invoked
into the case, did set up a claim to a personal judgment not
only against Roelker, but against Jelke, the other partner,
whom the answer of Robb and Strong prayed should be
made a. party. But Jelke was not made a party. It was,
however, clearly not a case for a personal judgment against
Roelker and Jelke, or either. Such cause of action would
have been foreign to the case as affecting some and not all

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Argument for Appellants.

the parties to the cause, and would have been contrary to the
provisions of  5020 Revised Statutes of Ohio, which requires
that each cause of action shall affect all the parties to a case.
It was proper, then, for these reasons, if for no other, that
Robb and Strong should withdraw their answer and crosspetition, it being subject at any time before trial to be stricken
from the files for non-conformity to that section or to a
demurrer for the same reason. The result is the same as if
no such answer had ever been filed by them.
But if any effect is to be given to the filing of this answer
and cross-petition, no greater effect can be rightly claimed for
it than would attach to it as the presentation of a claim to
participate in a fund, the value of which the claimant knows
nothing of; for anything more would have exceeded the
'limits of that case. The presentation of such a claim would
not amount to an election even where it is filed voluntarily.
So are all the authorities, particularly Morris v. -Robinson, 3
B. & C. 196; Curtis v. Williamson, L. R. 10 Q. B. 57; Wells,
Fargo & Co. v. Robinson, 13 California, 133. But the appearance of Robb and Strong in the Coppock case was not
voluntary. Robb and Strong, although non-residents, were
subject to constructive service by publication, and being thus
compellable to appear, their appearance without waiting to
be served by publication would have no different effect than,
if they had been served in that manner.
Our claim that there was no election on the part of IRobb
and Strong to ratify the acts of Kebler in consenting to
the sale of the property as professed attorney for Robb
and Strong, trustees, is placed upon the following grounds:
I. Robb and Strong, trustees, had no authority or power to
ratify a transaction, the effect of which would be to divest
them of their title as trustees to this property. They could
not have conveyed this property in the first instance so as to
divest their cestuis gue trustent of their title; and a fortiori

could not do so by ratification after the property had been sold
and the proceeds thereof squandered. Stix and Vos derived
notice of this want of power in the part of Robb and Strong
from the conveyances and from the pleadings in the case.

ROBB v. VOS.
Argument for Appellants.

Robb and Strong had no power to have accepted in lieu of
the land the chance of making the money out of the insolvent
Kebler, or out of his solvent partners who denied responsibility for his acts. *
A ratification can only be .made when the party ratifying
possesses the power to perform the act ratified. Marsh v.
Fult n County, 10 Wall. 676, 684. See also Shaw v. Spencer,
100 Mass. 382, S. C. 97 Am. Dec. 107; Smith v. Ayer, 101
U. S. 320 ; The Distilled Spirits, 11 Wall. 356.
II. There could be no ratification as against the partners
of Kebler without their consent; they did not consent to a
ratification the result of which would have made them liable
for stolen money. The claim in the answer and cross-petition
of Robb and Strong was not against the estate of Kebler,
but only against his partners; or at most against Kebler, in
conjunction with them.
III. Ratification being a question of intention, the filing of
the answer and cross-petition of Robb and Strong did not,
under the circumstances, constitute an election to give up the
land and accept in lieu thereof a supposed right of recovery,
for which they had in 'that case no remedy enforceable in that
proceeding.
To constitute an election by implication, the acts relied
upon must be plain and unequivocal acts, done under a full
knowledge of all the circumstances and rights of the parties.
Reaves v. Garrett,34 Alabama, 558, 562; Anderson's Appeal,
36 Penn. St. 476.
In considering the question of ratification or election as
arising from the act of filing this answer and cross-petition,
we cannot accord to it the same significance as attaches to proceedings at common law where the pleading indicated to a
certainty, whether it was founded upon tort or contract, there
being in Ohio no forms of action. We find no case in the
books where it has been decided that the, mere commencement of a suit which was afterwards withdrawn without issue
of process, has been held to amount to a ratification. In all
the cases where the pendency of a suit not prosecuted to
judgment has been held to constitute a ratification, there, has

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

been either an attachment, a trial by jury or a replevin, or
some other step taken whereby the plaintiff had acquired
some advantage. There are in the opinions in some cases,
expressions such as that any decisive act would constitute a
ratification or election, as the case may be; but, in those very
cases, there had either been a trial of the case or an attachment, or the case was still pending when the second action
was brought. -Morrisv. Robinson, 3 B. & C. 196; Xtforgan v.
Couchman, 14 C. B. 100; Curtis v. William son, L. R. 10
Q. B. 57; Priestlyv. Fernie,3 I1. & C. 977; Calder v. Dobell,
L. R. 6 0. B. 486; Peters v. Ballistier, 8 Pick. 495; Valpy v.
Sanders, 5 C. B. 886; Butler v. ZHildr'eth, 5 Met. 49; Anchor
.Milling Co. v. Walsh, 20 Mo. App. 107; Bunch v. Grave, 111
Indiana, 351; Nason v. Cock.roft, 3 Duer, 366; Becker v.
Walworth, 45 Ohio St. 169; Dean v. Yates, 22 Ohio St. 388;
Frank v. Jerkins, 22 Ohio St. 597; Hftman v. Ibtghlett, 11
Lea, 54:9; ]Wells, Fargo & Co. v. Robinson, 13 California, 133;
In re Collie, 8 Ch.D. 807.
Mr. Gustavus A. TTald and AMr. A. B. Rluston, (with whom
was Mr. V. Austin Goodman on the brief,) for Vos, appellee.
-Mr. Gustavus A. Wald and -Mr. Charles B. Wilby filed a
brief for Stix, appellee.
M . JUSTICE SHIRAS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
As the proceedings in the Gugenheim case were regular
upon their face, and extrinsic evidence was required to show
their invalidity, we think a court of equity was the proper
tribunal to afford effectual relief. Slater v. Maxwell, 6 Wall.
268; Cock, v. Izard,7 Wall. 559; Oelrichs v. Spain, 15 Wall.
211, 228 ; Freeman on Judgments,  499 and 500.
Nor do we think that the contention, that for the Circuit
Court of the United States to grant such relief would be
to interfere with the jurisdiction of the state court, is well
founded. Pennoyer v. leff, 95 U. S.714; Johnson v. Waters,
111 U- S.640; A rrowsmith v. Gleason, 129 U. S. 86.

ROBB v. VOS.
Opinion of the Court.

Whether the presumption, in favor of innocent third parties,
that Kebler had authority to enter an appearance for Robb
and Strong, trustees, and to receive the proceeds of the sale,
was sufficiently overcome by the evidence in this case, we
need not consider, because we agree with the conclusion of
the court below that the acts of Kebler, whether done with
or without authority, were subsequently adopted and ratified
by the complainants.
That the course of Robb and Strong, in voluntarily appearing in the case of Copoiock v. Kebler, and filing an answer and
cross-petition therein, whereby they sought to appropriate to
themselves the benefit of the mortgage given by Kebler, in
June, 1887, to F. G. Roelker, would have been an adoption
and ratification of the acts of Kebler done in their behalf, and
would have estopped them, as against innocent third parties
whose proceedings were or may have been influenced by such
course, is clear, upon reason and authority, if Robb and Strong
were acting in their own behalf. This course was deliberately
chosen, after the lapse of several months from the death of
Kebler, and with a full knowledge of all the facts. It does
not appear that they acted under any mistake, nor that, when
they afterwards dismissed their cross-petition and resorted to
the present suit, they had acquired any additional information. The subsequent withdrawal of their answer and crosspetition did not avail to put the parties in statu quo. Such
withdrawal could not restore to the purchasers at the Gugenhelm sale their lost opportunity to pursue Kebler's estate.
Nor is it necessary that it should be made to appear, by -evidence, that benefit would certAinly have accrued to Vos and
Stix from an attempt, if seasonably made, to secure indemnity
from ]'ebler's estate. The right to seek such indemnity was a
valuable one, and it is enough that it -appears that Robb and
Strong, by acquiescing in Kebler's acts and resorting to legal
proceedings against his administrator and partner, prevented
Vos and Stix from promptly and perhaps successfully pursuin g their remedies against the criminal's estate.
Similar reasoning was applied by this court in the case of
Leather Manufacturers' Bank v. ilkrgan, 117 U. S. 96, 114.

OCTOBER TER-M
, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

It was there held that a depositor, whose checks had been
fraudulently raised by his clerk, lost his ieinedy against the
bank by his delay and negligence in making known the facts
to the bank and thus giving it an opportunity to seek restitution from the wrongdoer, and the following language was used:
"Still further, if the depositor was guilty of negligence in
not discovering and giving notice of the fraud of his clerk,
then the bank was thereby prejudiced, because it was prevented from taking steps, by the arrest of the criminal, or by
an attachment of his property, or other form of proceeding to
compel restitution. It is not necessary that it should be made
to appear, by evidence, that benefit would certainly have
accrued to the bank from an attempt to secure payment from
the criminal. Whether the depositor is to be held as having
ratified what his clerk did, or to have adopted the checks paid
by the bank and charged to him, cannot be made, in this
action, to depend on a calculation whether the criminal had
at the time the forgeries were committed, or subsequently,
property sufficient to meet the demands of the bank. An
inquiry as to the damages in money actually sustained by the
bank by reason of the neglect of the depositor to give notice
of the forgeries might be proper if this were an action by it to
recover damages for a violation of his duty. But it is a suit
by the depositor, to falsify a stated account, to the injury of
the bank, whose defence is that the depositor has, by his conduct, ratified or adopted the payment of the altered checks,
and thereby induced it to forbear taking steps for its.protection against the person committing the forgeries. As the
right to seek and compel restoration and payment from the
person committing the forgeries was, in itself, a valuable one,
it is sufficient if it appears that the bank, by reason of the
negligence of the depositor, was prevented from promptly,
and, it may be, effectively, exercising it."
We do not deemn it necessary to review the numerous cases,
involving questions of election of remedy and ratification,
cited on behalf of the respective parties, but shall content ourselves with referring to two or three which satisfactorily illustrate the principles upon which we proceed.

ROBB v. VOS.
Opinion of the Court.

Thompson v,Howar'd, 31 Michigan, 309, 312, was a case
where a father who had brought an action of assumpsit for a
minor son's wages, and, after the jury disagreed, had discontinued the suit, and brought an action for the unlawful enticing away and harboring the son. The Supreme Court said:
"A man may not take contradictory positions; and where
he has a right to choose oge of two modes of redress, and the
two are so inconsistent that the assertion of one involves the
negation or repudiation of the other, his deliberate and- settled
choice of one, with knowledge, or the means of knowledge of
such facts as would authorize 'a resort to each, will preclude
him thereafter from going back and electing again.

[The plaintiff's] proceeding necessarily implied that the defendant had the young man's services during the time Woith ylaintif's assent,*and this was absolutely repugnant to the foundation of this suit, which is, that the young man was drawn
away and into defendant's service against the _plainti 's
a.ssent."

In Conr'ow v. Little, 115 N. Y. 38"7, 393, 394, the court said:
"The contract between Branscom and the plaintiffs was,
upon the discovery of Branscom's fraud, voidable at their
election. As to him, the plaintiffs could affirm or rescind it.
They could not do both, and there must be a time when their
election should be considered final. We- think that time was
when they commenced an action for the sum due under the
contract, and in the course of its prosecution applied for and
obtained an attachment against the property of Branscom as
their debtor. They then knew of the fraud practised by him,
and disclosed that knowledge in the affidavit on which the
attachment was granted, and became entitled to that remedy
because -it
was made to appear that a cause of action existed
in their favor by reason of ' a breach of contract to pay for
goods and money loaned obtained by fraud.' The attachment was levied and the action pending when the present
action, which repudiates the contract and has no support
except on the theory of its disaffirmance, was commenced.
The two remedies are inconsistent. By one, the whole estate
of the debtor is pursued in a summary manner, and payment

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

of a debt sought to be enforced by execution; by the other,
specific articles are demanded as the property of the plaintiff.
One is to recover damages in respect of the breach of the contract, the other can be maintained only by showing that there
was no contract. After choosing between these modes of
proceeding, the plaintiffs no longer had an option. By bringing the first action, after knowledge of the fraud practised by
Branscom, the plaintiffs waived the right to disaffirm the contract, and the defendants may justly hold them to their election. The principle applied in Foundry Company v. Ilersee,
103 N. Y. 26, and Hays v. JMidas, 104 N. Y. 602, require this
construction, for the present contains the element lacking in
those cases, viz., knowledge of the fraud practised by the vendee;
and by.reason of it the plaintiffs were put t6 their election.
"It is not at all material to the question that the plaintiffs
discontinued the first suit before bringing the present to trial,
for it is the fact that the plaintiffs elected this remedy, and
acted affirmatively upon that election, that determines the
present issue. Taking any steps to enforce the contract was
a conclusive election not to rescind it on account of any thing
known at the time. -After that-the option no longer existed,
and is of no consequence whether or not the plaintiffs made
their choice effective."
In Butler v. llildreth,5 Mfet. (Mass.) 49, it was held that "an
assignee of an insolvent debtor," under the insolvent law of
1838, "may affirm a sale of goods made by such debtor for the
purpose of delaying or defrauding his creditors, and receive the
price of the goods from the vendee. And if such assignee, knowing all the facts of the case, brings an action against the vendee,
on a note given by him for"the price of the goods, and secures
the demand by an attachment of his property, he thereby so
far affirms the sale, and waives his right to disaffirm it, that
he cannot, by discontinuing such action, and demanding the
goods, entitle himself to maintain an action of trover against
the vendee, on his refusal to return them."
At page 51 the court said: "It would, we think, be going
too far to say that merely demand of the price would be
deemed a waiver of his right to avoid the sale and claim the

ROBB v. VOS.
Opinion of the Court.

goods; because, in many cases, if the price could be obtained,
it would be equally beneficial to the creditors, and he would
have no farther occasion to pursue the harsher remedy of
impeaching the sale. But we think that, if the assignee commences an action against the purchaser for the price, and
causes his property to be attached to secure it, this is a significant act, an unequi vocal assertion that he does not impeach the sale, bift by. necessary implication affirms it. It is
an act, too, deeply affecting the rigbits of the purchaser, whilst
it is an assertion of his own; and if done with a knowledge of
all the facts which ought to influence him in his election,-it is
conclusive."
In Connikan v. Thompson., 111 Mass. 270, 272, the court
said: "The defence of waiver by election arises where the
remedies are inconsistent; as where one action is founded on
an affirmance and the other upon the disaffirmance of a
voidable contract or sale of property. In such cases, any
decisive act of affirmance or disaffirmance, if done with
knowledge of the facts, determines the legal rights of the
-parties, once for all. The institution of a suit is such a decisive act; and if its .maintenance necessarily involves an election, to affirm or disaffirm a voidable contract or sale, or to
rescind one, it is generally held -to be a conclusive waiver of
inconsistent rights, and thus to defeat any action subsequently
brought thereon."
The rule established by these cases, is that any decisive act
by a party, with knowledge of his rights'and of the facts, determines his election in the case of inconsistent remedies, and
that one of the most unequivocal methods of showing ratification of an agent's act is the bringing of an action based
upon such an act.
We cannot accept the contention that IRobb and Strong
never had any legal standing in the Coppock case, and that
the filing of their answer and cross-petition was merely a
fortuitous circumstance, which did no injury to Vos and Stix..
It is true that when the answer and cross-petition were, by
leave of court, withdrawn, the record did not, of itself, disclose any good reason for making them parties, and their

OCTOBER TERMI, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

demurrer was properly sustained. But if they had stood upon
their case, as set up in their answer and cross-petition, it would
seem that they would have been entitled to relief.
These views justify the decree of the court below, unless
the fact that Robb and Strong were trustees calls for a different conclusion.
It is claimed that the interest held by Robb and Strong, in
the lands embraced in the deed and lease between them and
Loth, was in the nature of an estate in realty, and that, as
trustees, they could not themselves, nor by authority given
to Kebler, have consented to the sale of such lands in the
Guo'enheim case. If the nature of their tenure was indeed
such that it could not be affected by the sale in the Gugenheim case without their consent, and if, as trustees, they were
disabled from consenting, it would seem to follow that the sale
in that case was inefficacious, and that the remedy at law
would be the sufficient and only one.
But our examination of the deed and lease, read in the light
of the testimony of the parties, satisfies us that, as between
Robb and Strong and Loth, the transaction was that of a loan
of money secured by the covenants of the lease.
Moritz Loth testified, in the present case, that he regarded
the transaction as a loan; and Robb and Strong, in the petition filed by them against Yos and Stix, alleged that "the
said transactions between them and the said Moritz Loth were
in truth and in fact a loan by thom to the said Moritz Loth of
the sum of $10,000, in consideration whereof the said Moritz
Loth conveyed to them the premises hereinbefore described,
and they executed to the said Loth the lease hereinbefore
described containing the privilege of purchase for the said sum
of $10,000," and they accordingly prayed that "their claim
shall be declared to be a first and best lien on the premises,
and that unless the defendants should pay them the said
$10,000, with interest, the said land might be sold for the
satisfaction of their claim."
It also appears that, in the Gugenheim case, the petition
averred that IRobb and Strong, trustees, held the land only as
security.

TALBERT v. UNITED STATES.
Counsel for Parties.

Accordingly it would seem plain that the rights of Robb
and Strong, trustees, were correctly asserted by Kebler in the
answer and cross-petition filed by him in the Gugenheim case,
and that, assuming that he was authorized to appear, the
decree in that case, directing the lands to be sold, and awarding to Robb and Strong, trustees, the said sum of $10,000
and interest out of the proceeds, was fully warraited. It
follows that, by the payient into court of the amount of the
principal and interest of tlie- money found to .bedue to Robb
and Strong, trustees, and by the conveyance to them by the
master of the lands in question, in pursuance of the decree, the
purchasers became vested with a fee-simple title to said lands.
The decree of the court below is accordingly

-Aflhmed.
MR.JUsTICE JACKSON and MR.JUSTICE WHITE, not having
heard the argument, took no part in the decision.

TALBERT v. -UNITED STATES.
UNITED STATES v. TALBERT.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIS.
los. 2N,25. Argued and submitted October 11, 12, 1834.-Decided October 15,1894.

A finding of fact by the Court of Claims, where there is nothing in the
other findings or elsewhere in the record which authorizes this court to
go behind that finding and conclude that there was error in respect
thereof, will not be reviewed here.

THE two causes were argued together.

The case is stated

in the opinion.
Mr. S. S. Henile for Talbert'in both cases.
Mrh. Assietant Attorney General Conrad for the United
States.

