WRIGHT v. YUENGLING.
Statement of the Case.

WRIGHT -v. YUENGLING.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 1. Argued October 9, 1894.-

Decided October 22, 1894.

Whether there was any novelty in the first claim in letters patent No.
144,818, issued November 18, 1873, to William Wright for an improvement in frames for horizontal engines, qucre.
Inasmuch as the semi-circular connecting piece in that patented machine is
described by the inventor as an essential feature of his invention and is
made an element of claims 1 and 2, it must be regarded as such essential feature, -and a device Which dispenses with it does not infringe the
patent.
When an invention is not a pioneer invention, the inventor is held to a rigid
construction of his claims.
The second claim in the said patent is void for want of patentable novelty.
The combination of the cylindrical guide with the trough in that machine
is-not a patentable invention.

THIS was a bill in equity for an injunction and the recovery
of damages for infringement of letters patent No. 144,818,
issued November 18, 1873, to the plaintiff Wright, for afi
improvement in frames for horizontal engines.
In his specification the patentee stated the object of his
invention to be the "attainment of both lightness and strength
in the construction of frames for horizontal engines, and at
the same time to dispense. with much of the fitting and other
costly work demanded by the ordinary frames of engines of
this class."
The following drawing exhibits the material parts of the
invention:

OCTOBER TERM, 189
Statement of the Case.

The patentee further stated that "the extreme rear end of
the frame, and forming part of the same, is thehead a of the
steam-cylinder A, and the portion of the frame which, in
ordinary engines, is devoted to the usual flat slides, consists of
a hollow cylinder, b, arranged concentrically with the steamcylinder, and serving as a guide for the cross-head, the guiding
cylinder being simply bored out to receive a cross-head, adapted
to it in a manner which need not here be explained, as it
forms no part of my present invention. There are lateral
openings ee in this cylindrical guiding portion of the frame,
in order that access may be had to the cross-head.
A semi-circular connecting-piece, d, merges at one end in the
guiding cylinder b,and at the other end in the cylinder-head
a, thus uniting the two, the open top of the said connectingpiece permitting ready access to be had to the stuffing-box of
the cylinder-head.
"This combination, in a horizontal engine-frame, of the
guiding-cylinder b,cylinder-head a, and connection d, constitutes an especial feature of my invention. The cylinder b not
only forms the main body of this portion of the frame, but
serves at the same time as a cross-head guide, which can be
readily prepared for service by the same bar which is used for
boring out the cylinder.
"From the front of the guiding-cylinder b to the point x,
where it meets the base H, the frame is made in the form of
an inclined concavo-convex trough, D, deep enough to permit
the free "movement of the connecting-rod, and this trough,
on the line 1 2, has one side, m, the upper edge of
which is continued in a plane coinciding with the centre of
the cylinder b, from the latter to the enlargement n, for receiving the bearing of the crank-shaft, the opposite side y
of the trough extending from the guiding-cylinder b,with a
gradually descending curve to the base H, into the upper portion of which it merges.
"A strengthening-rib, q, extends along the upper edge of
the sidep of the trough-like connection D, and is continued
along the upper edge of the base II, and also along the upper
edge of the side m of the trough, and terminates at an exten-

WRIGHT v. YUENGLING.
Opinion of the Court.

sion of the cylinder-head ,; and in order to add vertical
strength to the frame a central web, t, extends from the base
H to the cylinder-head a, this web merging into the foot w,
which serves as one of the supports of the frame.
"In horizontal engines there is necessarily an excessive
lateral strain on the frame between the cross-head guides and
the crank-shaft. This strain is effectually resisted by the comparatively light trough-like portion of the frame between the
crank-shaft and guiding-cylinder."
His claims were as follows:
1. A horizontal steam-engine frame in which a cylinder, b,
for guiding the cross-head, is combined witb the cylinder-head
a and semi-circular connecting-piece d, substantially in the
manner described.
"2. The combination, in a horizontal engine-frame, of the
guiding-cylinder b,base H, and trough-like connection D.
"3. A horizontal engine-frame composed of the cylinderhead a, guiding-cylinder b, connecting-piece. d,,
trough D, base
H, and web t, all combined substantially in the manner.
described."
The Answer set up the -defences of non-infringement and
want of patentable novelty by reason of certain prior patents.
Upon a hearing in the Circuit Court upon pleadings and
proofs the bill was dismissed upon these grounds and plaintiff
appealed.
Mr. Andrew -M. Todd for appellant.
.r. B. F. Lee for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BzowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The object of the invention in question was to add both
lightness and strength to the construction of frames fo.- horizontal single crank engines. To attain this the patentee, instead of employing the ordinary flat parallel slides for the
piston and cross-head, makes use of a hollow cylinder, arranged
VOL. CLv-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

concentrically with the steam cylinder, and serving as a guide
for the cross-head, together with a trough connecting this
cylinder with the base H, and deep enough to permit the free
movement of the connecting rod. This construction is further
strengthened by a rib extending along the upper edge of one
side, p, of the trough D, continued along the upper edge of the
base H, and also along the upper edge of the other'side, nz, of
the trough, and terminating at an extension of the cylinder
head a; and also, to add vertical strength to the frame, a rib
or web, t, was extended from the base H to the cylinder head
a, merging in a foot, w, which serves as one of the supports of
the frame. The cylinder head a, the guiding cylinder b, with
its connecting piece, the trough D, the base H, and the web t,
are cast in a single piece and firmly bolted to the head of the
steam cylinder A.
T1) The first claim is for a combination of the cylinder b,
the cylinder head a, and the semi-circular connecting piece d,
while the third claim includes the same elements and, in addition thereto, the trough D, the base H, and the web t.
In view of the fact to which we shall hereafter call attention,
that a cylinder had been used long before for guiding the crosshead of a piston, it is at least open to doubt whether there was
any novelty inthe first claim. Such novelty, if there be any
at all, consists in leaving certain lateral openings, ee, in the
guiding cylinder, and in taking half the top off of such cylinder
as it approaches the steam cylinder, in order to give convenient
access to the cross-head. But, in the view we take of the
alleged infringing device, it is unnecessary to express a decided
opinion upon this point.
The connecting piece d, which is described in the specification as a semi-circular connecting piece merging at one end
in the guiding cylinder and at the other end in the cylinder head, thus uniting the two, is not only made an element
of both these claims, but is said to constitute, in connection
with the guiding cylinder and cylinder head, a special feature
of the invention. This so-called connecting piece is distinguished from the guiding cylinder in that it is only semicircular, and thus admitting of access to the stuffing-box with

WRIGHT v. YUENGLING.
Opinion of the Court.

perfect freedom throughout a complete half circle. This
access is had, not through a mere hole or opening, such as
are ee, but through such an opening as can be obtained by
cutting away the upper half of the frame at this point.

The device used by the defendant contains a similar cylinder for guiding the cross-head, and a trough connecting it
with the base; but this cylinder, instead of having its entire
interior sfrface bored out, so that it may guide the crosshead in the same way that the piston is guided in the steam
cylinder, (as in the Wright patent,) merely contains an upper
and a lower guide, formed of two slides or fitting strips, the
surfaces .of which are bored out, but no other portion of the
cylinder. We do not regard this, however, as a material
departure from the Wright patent, as it constitutes a mere
difference in detail of construction, not affecting in any way
the operation of ,the cross-head of the cylinder, or changing
materially the efficiency of such cylinder. Nor do we think
it material that in defendant's structure there is no cylinder
head forming part of, cast with, and constituting a portion
of the engine-frame, since the frame of the defendant's device
terminates in a flange adapted to be bolted to a cylinder
head, and thus in fact constituting a part of it.
But the absence of the semi-circular connecting piece d is
a circumstance worthy of more serious consideration. In the
defendant's engine there is no such semi-circular connecting
piece as is described in the Wright patent, but the guiding
cylinder extends backward to a connection with the head of
the steam cylinder, the side of such guiding cylinder, through
which the cross-head operates, containing an opening oval in
shape and narrower at each end than in the centre. The
equivalent for the connecting piece, if found at all, must be
in this continuation of the guiding cylinder backward to the
steam cylinder. But this portion of the cylinder is neither
scooped out in a semi-circular form, nor does it admit of
ready access to the cross-head shown at this point in the
Wright patent. Instead of access to the cross-head being
easier at this point than any other, it is in reality more difficult, as the oval opening is narrower there than in the centre.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Now, while this semi-circular connecting piece may be an
immaterial feature of the Wright invention, and the purpose
for which it is employed accomplished, though less perfectly,
by the extension of the guiding cylinder in the manner indicated in defendant's device, yet the patentee, having described it in the specification and declared it to be an essential
feature of his invention, and having made it an element of
these two claims, is not now at liberty to say that it is immaterial, or that a device which dispenses with it is an infringement, though it accomplish. the same purpose in, perhaps, an
equally effective manner. Vance v. Campbell, 1 Black, 427;
Water-Afeter Co. v. Desper, 101 IT. S. 332; Gage v. Herring,
107 U. S. 640, 648; Gould v. Rees, 15 Wall. 187; Brown v.
Davis, 116 U. S. 237, 249.
If the guiding cylinder of this patent had been a pioneer
invention, it is possible the patentee might have been entitled
to a construction of this claim broad enough to include the
defendant's device, notwithstanding the absence of the semicircular connecting piece; but as we have already said, the
novelty of the invention is at least open to doubt, and we think
the patentee should be held to a rigid construction of these
claims. The opening in the guiding cylinder, which is supposed to be the equivalent of the connecting piece d, instead
of increasing so as to form a semi-circular opening, as in the
patent, decreases, so as to prevent, if anything, ready access
to the stuffing-box, and, under the circumstances, does not
constitute a mechanical equivalent for it. Indeed, the guiding cylinder of the defendant's engine bears a stronger resemblance to those shown in the prior patents hereinafter
cited than to that of the Wright patent, and hence if the
prior patents anticipate the Wright cylinder, the defendant's
does not infringe it.
(2) The second claim of the patent is for "the combination,
in a horizontal engine-frame of the guiding cylinder b, base H,
and trough-like connection D." The guiding cylinder, which
is used in lieu of the ordinary parallel slides, was, however, by
no means a novelty in the construction of engine-frames. It
is found in different stages of perfection in several prior

WRIGHT v. YUENGLING.
Opinion of the Court.

patents, viz.: in a patent issued to Samuel Wright as early
as 1837, for locomotive engines, and was there used, as the
patentee states, "to subserve the twofold purpose of a (steam)
pump and guide;" in the patent to Gelston Sanford of February 15, 1859, in which the invention related to elongating
the cylinder, "by which means it becomes a part of the frame,
used for the support of the crank shaft, and so constructed
that when bored out forms a guide and rest for the crosshead;" in the patent to William Wright of August 8, 1865,
in which the movement of the piston is transmitted to the
main crank by means of a .connecting rod, jointed to the
cross-head,-to which the piston is attached, and which is
guided in ways or guides, fast to the frame; and in which ao
semi-circular connecting piece is also shown; in that to John
B. Root-of August 14, 1866, in which the piston also works in
two cylindrical guides attached to the cylinder heads; in that
to Maxwell & Cope of February 13, 1872; in that to Edward
H. -Cutler of November 26, 1872; and in that to George H.
Babcock of December 10, 1872.
It is true that none of these patents exhibit distinctly the
trough-like connection. D of the Wright patent, but that also
is found in the patent to Chilion M. Farrar of March 19,
1872, in which it is fully shown in the drawings, though not
described in the specification, and is used in connection with
the ordinary fiat guides 'or parallel slides.
Wright's only invention, then, was in the combination of
the cylindrical guide with the trough shown in the Farrar
patent. Did this accomplish a new and valuable result it is
quite possible that a patent therefor might have been sustained, but we do not find this to be the case. The cylindrical
guide performs the same functions as in the prior patents;
the trough, in which the connecting rod works in the Farrar
patent, is practically the same as in the Wright patent, and
the combination is a mere aggregation of their respective
functions. If the combination of the trough and cylindrical
guide of the Wright patent gives greater lightness and strength
to the frame than the combination pf the trough and the flat
guides of the Farrar patent, it is a mere difference in degree,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

a carrying forward of an old idea, a result, perhaps, somewhat
more perfect than had theretofore been attained, but not rising to the dignity of invention. We have repeatedly held
patents of this description to be invalid. Stimpson v. Moodman, 10 Wall. 117 ; Sm ih v. Nichols, 21 Wall. 112; Guidet
v. Broo lyn, 105 U. S. 550; Hall v. 3fIaneale, 107 U. S. 90.

The decree of the court below dismissing the bill is, therefore,
________Affirmed.

WRIGHT "v. BEGGS.
Appeal from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York. No. 2,
-argued with No. 1. Decided October 22, 1894. MR. JUSTICE
BROWN delivered the opinion of the court. This was a suit against
the defendant Beggs as maker of the engine used by Yuengling,
and is disposed of by the opinion in the last case holding the
Wright patent to be invalid. The decree of the court below dismissing the bill is, therefore,
Affirmed.
Mr. Andrew M2.Todd for appellant.

Mr. B. F. Lee for appellee.

LEWIS v. PIMA COUNTY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.
No. 550. Submitted October 17, 1894. -Decided October 29, 1894.

The act of the legislature of Arizona of February 21, 1883, authorizing
Pima County in that Territory to issue its bonds in aid of the construction of a railway, is a violation of the restrictions imposed upon territorial legislatures by Rev. Stat. ยง 1889, as amended by the act of June 8,
1878, c. 168, and the bonds issued under the authority assumed to be
conferred by that statute created no obligation against the county which
a court of law can enforce.

THIS was an action originally begun in the District Court

of the First Judicial District of Arizona upon 2250 coupons

