OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

at the time of his coptract only $150, and now $7500. It
seems to us to be a case of a purely speculative contract on
the part of the plaintiff; doing nothing himself, he waits
many years to see what the outcome of the purchase by
defendant shall be. If such purchase proves a profitable
investment, he will demand his share; if unprofitable, he will
let it alone. Under those circumstances the long delay is
such laches as forbids a court of equity to interfere. "The
decision of the Circuit Court is right, and it is
-Affirmed.

EVANSVILLE BANK v. GERMAN-AMERICAN
BANK.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 85. Argued November 20, 1894. -Decided

January 7, 1695.

In June, 1887, the Fidelity Bank of Cincinnati had a contract with the
German-American Bank of Peoria "to credit sight items on any
point in the United States east of Illinois, where there are banks, at
par; and to make collections on same points" and "to credit the same at
par when collected." At that time there also existed an arrangement
between the Fidelity Bank and the Bank of Evansville in Indiana for
mutual and reciprocal collection business. On the 14th of that month
the German-American Bank sent to the Fidelity Bank for collection a
sight draft on a firm in Terre Haute, endorsed "for collection." On
the 16th this draft was forwarded to the Evansville Bank for collection.
On the 18th the draft was sent by the Evansville Bank to a bank in
Terre Haute for collection, and was collected by the latter bank on the
20th of June. On the morning of the 21st, before banking hours, the
Evansville Bank received news of the collection, and after crediting
the Fidelity Bank with it, as of June 20th, notified the Fidelity Bank
of the payment and of the entry to credit by a letter which was received
there on the 22d. On the 20th the Fidelity Bank was, and for ten days
before it had been, insolvent. It was not open for business after the
20th, and on the 27th passed into the hands of a receiver. Held, th at the
Fidelity Bank, though it acquired the mere legal title to the draft, never
became its equitable owner; that the notice on the draft that it was for
collection bound all parties into whose hands it came; that the Evans-

EVANSVILLE BANK v. GER.-AMERICAN BANK.

557

Statement of the Case.
ville Bank could not by its entry of credit to the Fidelity Bank release
itself of its obligation to the German-American Bank ; and that the mere
fact that news of the condition of the Fidelity Bank had not reached the
Evansville Bank at the time it made the entry was immaterial.
Commercial Bank of .Pennsylvaniav. Armstrong, 148 U. S. 50, shown nbt to
conflict with this decision.

THIS case was tried by the court, a jury having been
waived. A special finding of facts was made. From this
it appears that during the month of June, 1887, the Fidelity
National Bank of Cincinnati, Ohio, (hereinafter called the
Fidelity Bank,) and the German-American Bank of Peoria,
Illinois, (hereinafter called the German-American Bank,) the
plaintiff in the court below, were mutually transacting the
business of collecting mercantile paper each for the other,
and were keeping ledger accounts with each other, under a
contract entered into in the month of September, 1886. This
contract was made by correspondence, which resulted in an
acceptance by the German-American Bank of the following
proposition of the Fidelity Bank: "We will credit sight
items on any point in the United States east of Illinois, where
there are banks, at par; and make collections on same points,
which, when paid, will credit at gar."
On June 14, 1887, the German-American Bank purchased
from the Great Western Distilling Company of Peoria a
draft, of which the following is a copy:
"Great

Western Distilling Co., Distillers and Refiners of
Spirits.

"$6926.15.
"PEORIA, ILLS., June 14th, 1887.
"At sight pay to the order of Weston Arnold, cashier,
sixty-nine hundred twenty-six 15-100 dollars.

"J.

B.

GREENIHUT,

"See. and Treas.
"To Terre Haute Distilling Co., Terre Haute, Ind.
"No. 4357."
and on the same day transmitted it to the Fidelity Bank in
the following letter:

OCTOBER TERN, 1894.
Statement of the Case.
"PEORIA,

ILLS.,

June 14th, 1887.

"Ammi Baldwin, Esq., cash., Cin'ti, 0.
" DEAR Sim: Enclosed find for collection and credit items
Respectfully yours,
as stated below.
" WSTON ARNOLD, Cashier.
"Return at once if unpaid, giving reasons; protest all
paper unless otherwise instructed.
No pro ....... $6926 15."
"Terre Haute Dist. Co ........
At the time of its transmission it was endorsed:
"Pay Fidelity National Bank of Cincinnati, 0., or order,
for collection for German-American Nat'l Bank of Peoria, Ills.

"W. ARNOLD, Cash."
this endorsement being made by a rubber stamp, which had
been forwarded to the German-American Bank by the Fidelity Bank. At the time the German-American Bank transmitted this draft to the Fidelity Bank it credited cash with
the full amount of said draft and charged the same to the
said Fidelity Bank in its ledger account with said bank as a
debit against the said Fidelity Bank. Such entries were
made in pursuance of the right which the plaintiff claimed to
have under its said contract and the custom of bankers, a
custom expressly found to exist throughout the United States,
to enter, at the time of transmission, sight paper transmitted
to the said Fidelity Bank for collection upon its ledger
account with the said Fidelity Bank, and were provisional
in that the plaintiff at the time of making said entries intended to exercise the right which it also claimed to have
under its said contract with the said Fidelity Bank and the
like custom of bankers to cancel each of said entries by a
counter-entry in case the draft was not paid. The making of
such entries was not communicated to the Fidelity Bank.
The draft was also before its said transmission to the Fidelity
Bank entered on the remittance register of the GermanAmerican Bank as remitted to the Fidelity Bank.
The German-American Bank never at any time drew drafts

EVANSVILLE BANK v. GER.-A)ZMERICAN BANK.

559

Statement of the Case.

upon the Fidelity Bank against collections transmitted to it
until it had received from the latter notice of payment thereof.
Upon the receipt of this draft on June 15, 1887,no entry representing it was made by the Fidelity Bank in its general
ledger account with the German-American Bank, but only on
the collection register. Between the Fidelity Bank and the
Old National Bank of Evansville, Indiana, (hereinafter called
the Old National Bank,) the defendant in the court below,
there then existed an arrangement for mutual and reciprocal
collection business, and on June 16 the draft was forwarded
by the former to the latter bank with this additional endorsement: "Pay Old National Bank, Evansville, Ind., cashier, or
order, for collection. Please report by this number, 66,923.
Ammi Baldwin,
Fidelity National Bank, Cincinnati, 0.
Cashier." The letter' enclosing the draft was in these words:
"CrNc-A TI, 6 1 16, 1887.
,.cashier, Evansville, Ind.
"Old National Bank,
"Dear Sir: I enclose fog collection and credit as below stated.
"Very respectfully yours,
"Ammi BALDWIN, Cashier.
*

*

*

*

"Do not hold, but protest against all collections not accepted or paid, unless otherwise instructed by us. Advise
by date of letter. Please report collections by numbers."
On June 18 the Old National Bank acknowledged receipt
by a postal card as follows:
11EVANSVILLE, IND., June 18th, 1887.
"I have received your favor of the 16th, with stated enclosure.
"Entered for coll.
HENitY REIs, Cashier."
"Yours respectfully,
No entry was made by it at the time on its ledger account
with the Fidelity Bank, but only in its collection register. On
June 18 the draft was forwarded to the First National Bank
of Terre Haute, received by the latter on June 20, and paid to

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

it by the Terre Haute Distilling Company on the afternoon of
that day between two and three o'clock. On the same afternoon a letter was written by the First National Bank to the
Old National Bank, advisifig the latter of the payment of the
draft, and that its amount had been credited to the account
of the latter, which letter was posted at about four o'clock of
the same afternoon. The letter was received by the Old
National Bank at or about eight o'clock on the mor;ning of
June 21. During the month of June, 1887, the banking hours
of these banks were from nine o'clock in the forenoon continuously until three o'clock in the afternoon, and the letter
having been received before banking hours of the 21st, the
amount of the draft was, in accordance with its general
practice, entered by the Old National Bank in its account
-with the Fidelity, Bank as a credit to the latter as of June
20, 1887.
On June 21, 1887, the Old National Bank wrote and mailed
to the Fidelity Bank a letter, notifying the latter of the payment of the draft and, the entry to its credit.- This letter
was received by the persons in charge of the Fidelity Bank
on June 22.
"On June 20, 1887, and for ten days prior thereto, the
Fidelity Bank was insolvent, but neither the German-American Bank, the Old National Bank, nor the First National
Bank had knowledge of this fact, nor did either of said banks
have knowledge of such fact until after the failure of the
Fidelity Bank, as hereinafter stated. On the morning of June
20, 1887, Mr. Eugene Powell, bank examiner, came to the
Fidelity Bank for the purpose of making an examination.
He did so, to a certain extent. In the afternoon of June 20,
1887, the .board of directors of the Fidelity Bank had a meeting at the office of the bank, which continued in session until
after the close of banking hours. After the close of banking
hours the board of directors adjourned, and immediately
thereafter Mr. Powell, as bank examiner, took possession of
the Fidelity Bank, and that night had the combination of" the
safe changed, of which combination he took possession. The
Fidelity Bank kept its doors open for the transaction of bank-

EVANSVILLE BANK v. GER.-AMERICAN BANK.

561

Statement of the Case.

ing business until the close of banking hours on June 20, 1887,
and transacted such banking business as offered until that
time. The board of directors of the Fidelity Bank met early
in the morning of June 21, 1887, and about 8.30 o'clock, half
an hour before the beginning of bank hours, it Was announced
to its officers that the bank would not open. The Fidelity
-Bank did not open for business on June 21, 1887, and has
never opened for business since June 20, 1887.
"M r. Eugene Powell, bank examiner, continued in possession of the Fidelity Bank, after taking possession of it in the
manner aforesaid, until June 27, 1887, when Mr. David Armstrong was appointed receiver, which position he held at the
beginning of this suit.
"No remittance of money or any tangible representative
of money representing this draft was ever made by the First
National Bank to the Old National Bank or by the Old National' Bank to the Fidelity-Bank or by the FidelityBank or
its receiver to the German-American Bank, and the proceeds
of this draft never passed between-said banks, if at all, otherwise than by the debit and credit entries above-mentioned.
"Prior to the institution of this suit the Old National Bank
and the First National .Bank made a mutual settlement of
their collection accounts up to and including the above-mentioned entries representing said draft. The-mutual collection
accounts between the Old National Bank and the Fidelity
Bank have not been settled on account of the insolvdncy, of
the Fidelity Bank, but the Old National Bank claims upon
such -settlement the benefit of the amount of said draft as a
debit on its account with the Fidelity Bank.
"On the books of the Fidelity Bank, as they stood at the
beginning of this suit, the Fidelity Bank owed the GermanAmerican National Bank $17,844.77. On the books, of the
Fidelity Bank and of the Old National Bank, as they stood
at the beginning of this suit, the Fidelity Bank owed the Old
National Bank $14,391.57. The above balances are made
by debiting the Old National Bank with the amount of said
draft and crediting the German-American Bank with the like
amount."
VOL. CLV-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Upon these facts judgment was entered in favor of the
plaintiff for the amount of the draft and interest, to reverse
which judgment the defendant brought this writ of error.
-Mr.Alpheus i.USnow, (with whoM was .Mr.John M. Butler
on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Charles I. Smith, (with whom were -Mr. Thomas B.
Paxton, Mr. John If Warrington, and Mfr. John S. Duncan
on the brief,) for defendant in error.
M .

JUSTICE

BREVER,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The Fidelity Bank did not purchase this draft from the
plaintiff, and, although it acquired the mere legal title, never.
became its equitable owner. It received it as an agent, and
the endorsement, "for collection, for German-American National Bank of Peoria, Illinois," was notice to it and every
subsequent holder that it was forwarded simply for collection. Neither by the express terms of the contract between
the plaintiff and the Fidelity. Bank, nor by the course of business between them, nor by the custom of bankers, did the
receipt of the draft by the Fidelity make it a debtor for the
amount thereof, neither would it become such debtor until
after collection and possession of the proceeds of the draft,
either actually or by settlement of accounts between the
parties. Sweeny v. Easter, 1 Wall. 166; WAite v. Vational
Bank, 102 U. S. 658; Commercial Bank v. Armstrong, 148
U. S. 50.
The draft was collected and the proceeds thereof received
by the defendant. While it was at first collected by the First
National Bank of Terre Haute, yet it was by that bank credited to the defendant, notice of the credit given, and the
amount settled between the two banks in the adjustment of
their accounts.
The case, therefore, is presented of a receipt of the proceeds
of the draft by the defendant, a sub-agent or agent of the
collector, and the non-receipt of the proceeds by the plaintiff,

EVANSVILLE BANK v. GER.-AMERICAN BANK.

563

Opinion of the Court.

the ownef, and the question is whether the former has discharged itself of liability for the moneys which it has thus
received.
The contention of the defendant is that it paid the moneys
which it received to the party from which it received the
draft, to wit, the Fidelity Bank, which was the agent of the
owner. It is not pretended that it ever forwarded to the
Fidelity Bank the cash therefor, but the claim is that it credited such amount on the account of the Fidelity Bank, the
Fidelity being at the time indebted to it, and that this is
equivalent to an actual payment of money. The difficulty
with this contention is, that, at the time this credit was
entered by the defendant, the Fidelity was not in a condition
to receive credit or make any settlement; it was insolvent,
and in the custody. of the officers of the law. The defendant
received no notice of the collection by the Terre Haute bank,
made no entry on its books, took no other action looking to a
settlement with the Fidelity until the morning of the 21st,
and it is found not only that the Fidelity had been insolvent
for ten days theretofore, but that on the 20th the bank examiner had taken possession -a possession which he maintained
until the appointment of the receiver Armstrong. At the
time this examiner took possession the business of the bank
stopped, and the authority of the directors and officers ceased.
They could not thereafter make any settlement with the defendant to the prejudice of the rights of third parties. If on
the morning of the 21st the defendant had brought to the
Fidelity Bank in cash the amount which it had collected on
this draft and tendered it to the officers of the Fidelity Bank
in payment of a balance due to such bank, the latter could
not have-lawfully received that cash for such purpose, so as
to relieve the defendant from its liability to the plaintiff.
And, a fortiori,if it could not accomplish this by an actual
tender of the money, it cannot by a mere entry on its own
books. The only way in which the defendant could, after
receiving the amount of this check, discharge itself from liability to the plaintiff was by a payment to the Fidelity Bank,
its endorser, at a time when the Fidelity Bank was authorized

.564

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

to receive it for the plaintiff, and the authority to so receive
it terminated when it stopped business.
There is nothing in the case of the Commercial Bank of
Pennsylvaniav. Armstrong, 148 U. S. 50, which conflicts with
this. On the contrary, it was said in tlaat opinion, in reference
to a transaction similar to the one before us: "The plaintiff,
then, as principal, could unquestionably have controlled the
paper at any time before its payment, and this control extended
to such time as the money was received by its agent, the
Fidelity."I
Language found later in the opinion, upon which the
defendant relies, must be understood in relation to the par-ticular facts of that case. Certain drafts had been. received
by the Fidelity Bank and forwarded for collection to other
banks, and by the latter collected. Of these collections some
had been made by banks indebted to the Fidelity, and others
by banks to whom the Fidelity was indebted, and the amount
of such collections credited on their accounts with the
Fidelity. The former were paid by such banks to Armstrong, the receiver of the Fidelity, and after its failure.
The suit was one brought by the original owner of these
drafts against the receiver, to charge the funds in his hands
with a trust in respect to all these collections, and it was
adjudged that he was such trustee as to the former, and not
as to the latter; the former, because the collection had not
been completed by the Fidelity before its failure, and, therefore, the amounts thereof subsequently received by the
receiver were received for the benefit of the original holder;
whilst, as to the latter, the collection by the Fidelity was
complete and the original holder stood simply as a general
creditor of the Fidelity for such amounts. There was in
respect to these latter collections no question as to the precise
time at which the transaction between the Fidelity and the
collecting banks was completed, and no suggestion that an
entry on the books of the Fidelity, or some other act indicating its assent to the action of the collecting banks in crediting the amount, was necessary to complete the settlement.
On the contrary, it was assumed that the settlement between

COUPE v. ROYEE.
Syllabus.

the Fidelity and its agents was complete at the time of the
failure.
It is unnecessary, in this case, to consider what would be
the rights of the parties if a settlement between the defendant
and the Fidelity Bank had been consummated while the latter
was actually engaged in business, although in fact insolvent;
for, as stated, no action was taken by the defendant until
after-the Fidelity had stopped business, and Was in possession
of the officers of the law. The mere fact that news of the
condition of the Fidelity had not reached the defendant at
the time it made this entry is immaterial. The condition of
insolvency was "disclosed" because it was known to the
officers of the law, and action had been taken by them in
consequence thereof, and that is all that is necessary. We
think the conclusions of the Circuit Court were correct, and
its judgment is
Affirmed.

COUPE v. ROYER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 53. Argued November 7,189.-Declded January 7,1895.

In letters patent No. 77,920, granted to Herman Royer and Louis Royer, May
f2, 1868, for "an improved machine for treating hides," the first claim,
viz., for "a vertical shaft," and the second claim, viz., for a " grooved
weight," are restricted to a shaft and crib in a vertical position, and to a
weight operating by the force of gravity aided by pressure; and they
cannot be extended so as to include shafts and cribs in a horizontal
position,.and pressure upon the hides by means of false fieads,-actuated
and controlled by gearing wheels, springs, and a crank.
In jury trials in actions for the infringement of letters patent, it is the province of the court, when the defence denies that the invention used by
the defendant is identical with that included In the .plaintiff's patent, to
define the patented invention, as indicated by the language of the claims;
and it is the province of the jury to determine whether the invention so
defined covers the art or article employed by the defendant.
The measure of recovery in a suit in equity for such ihfringement is the
gains and profits made 6y- the infringer, and such further damage as the

