UNITED STATES v. JAHN.
Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. JAHIN.
CERTIFICATE FROM

THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF

APPEALS

FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No.

541. Argued and submitted October 23, 1894.-

Decided November 5,1894.

A Circuit Court of the United States has jurisdiction to hear and determine,
on appeal from the Board of General Appraisers, the questions of law
and of fact involved in a decision of that Board sustaining the action
of a collector of customs in exacting a charge for gauging molasses
under the provisions of-Rev. Stat. ยง โข3023.
Giving to the act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826, c. 517, to estfiblish Circuit
Courts of Appeals, taken as a'whole, a reasonable construction, it is
held:
(1) That if the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is in issue and decided
in favor of the defendant, as that disposes of the case, the plaintiff should have the question certified and take his appeal or writ
of error directly to this court;
(2) That if the question of jurisdiction is in issue, and the jurisdiction
sustained, and then judgment or decree is rendered in favor of
the defendant on thie merits, the plaintiff who has maintained the
jurisdiction, must appeal to the Circuit Court' of Appeals, where,
if the question of jurisdiction arises, the Circuit Court of Appeals
may certify it;
(3) That if the question of jurisdiction is in issue, and the jurisdiction
sustained, and judgment on the merits is rendered in favor of
-theplaintiff, then the defendant can elect either to have the question certified and come directly to this court, or to carry the
whole case to the Circuit Court Of Appeals, and the question of
jurisdiction can be certified by that court;
(4) That if in the case last supposed the plaintiff has ground of complaint
in respect of the judgment he has recovered, he may also carry
the case to the Circuit Court of Appeals on the merits, and this he
may do by way of cross-appeal or writ of error if the defendant
has taken the case there, or independently, if the defendant has
carried the case to this court on the question of jurisdiction alone,
and in this instance the Circuit Court of Appeals will suspend a
decision upon the merits until the question of jurisdiction has
been determined;
(5) That the same observations are applicable where a plaintiff objects
to the jurisdiction and is, or both parties are, dissatisfied with the
judgment on the merits.
The docket title of this case being wrong, it is corrected by this court.

OCTOBER TERKv,

1894.

Opinion of the Court.

AUGUST 15, 1890, G. A. Jahn & Co. imported into New
York some casks of molasses, which on the 28th of that month
they withdrew from warehouse and exported to Montreal for
the benefit of the drawback. Upon such withdrawal and
exportation, the collector of customs at New York exacted a
charge of ten cents per cask for gauging the molasses under
the provisions of section 3023 of the Revised Statutes. The
importers protested against the charge for gauging, claiming
that it had been abolished by the 22d section of the act
entitled "An act to simplify the laws in relation to the collection of the revenue," approved June 10, 1890. 26 Stat. 131,
1-40, c. 407.
The matter was duly taken before the board of general
appraisers, which sustained the action of the collector, and
the importers appealed to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of iNew York. The Circuit
Court reversed the decision of the board of general appraisers,
and held that the gauging charge exacted by the collector
had been abolished. Thereupon the United States appealed
to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and assigned for error that
the Circuit Court erred in reversing the decision of the board
of general appraisers for the reason that the decision of the
board was final and conclusive, and that the Circuit Court
had no jurisdiction to make any decree or order in said proceeding.

The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was first

challenged upon the appeal. The Circuit Court of Appeals
certified to this court the question: "Whether the United
States Circuit Court had jurisdiction to hear and determine
the questions of law and of fact involved in said decision of
the board of general appraisers."
.- r. Solicitor General for the United States, submitted on

his brief.
.M'. Edwin B. Smith for Jahn & Co.
MR. CHIEF JusTicE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This case was docketed here under the title: "In the

UNITED STATES v. JAHN.
Opinion of the Court.

matter of the application of Gustave A. Jahn & Co. upon
certain merchandise entered by the 'Alps,' August 15, 1890,"
but the correct title is United States v. Gustave A. Jahn et al.,
for the reasons given by Mr. Justice Gray in United States v.
Hoewell,'5 U. S. App. 137.
Counsel for the importers denies that the Circuit Court of
Appeals had authority to certify the question of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court to this court because that question
was not in issue in the Circuit Court or raised in any way;
and, if it had been in issue, it could only be certified by the
Circuit Court to this court; that as it was not put in issue
and not certified, and an appeal was taken to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, the action of the Circuit Court in proceeding to judgment was a final determination in favor of its own
jurisdiction, which could not be revised by the Circuit Court
of Appeals though under instruction from this court.,
The act of March 3,'1891, 26 Stat. 826, c. 517, establishing
the Circuit Courts of Appeals, provides in its fourth section
that "the review, by appeal, by writ of error, or otherwise,
from the existing Circuit Courts shall be had only in the
Supreme Court of the United States or in the Circuit Courts
of Appeals hereby established according to the provisions of
this act regulating the same;" in section five, that "appeals
or writs of error may be taken from . .
Circuit Courts direct to the Supreme Court

.
.

the existing
. in'any

.

case in which the jurisdiction of the court is in issue; in such
cases the question of jurisdiction alone shall be certified to
the Supreme Court from the court below for decision;" in
section six, that the Circuit*Courts of Appeals "shall exercise appellate jurisdiction to review by appeal or by writ of
error final decision in the

.

.

.

existing Circuit Courts

in all cases other than those provided for in the preceding
section of this act, unless otherwise provided by law, and
the judgments or decrees of the Circuit Courts of Appeals
shall be final . . . in all cases . . . arising . .
under the revenue laws . . . excepting that in every such

subject within its appellate jurisdiction the Circuit Court of
Appeals at any time may certify to the Supreme Court of the

OCTOBER TER-M, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

United States any questions or propositions of law concerning
which it desires the instruction of that court for its proper
decisien, and thereupon the Supreme Court may either give
its instruction on the questions and propositions certified to it
which shall be binding upon the Circuit Courts of Appeals in
such case, or it may require that the whole record and cause
may be sent up to it for its consideration, and thereupon shall
decide the whole matter in controviersy in the same manner
as if it had been brought there for review by writ of error or
appeal." And excepting also that the Supreme Court, in the
absence of request for instruction, might, by certiorarior otherwise, require any such case to be certified to it for review.
It thus appears that the revisory power of this court, and of
the Circuit Courts of Appeals, under the act, is to be exercised
only in accordance with its provisions, and that the Circuit
Courts of Appeals exercise appellate jurisdiction under the
sixth section in all cases other than those in which the jurisdiction of this court is exercised under the fifth, among which
cases are included all revenue cases, that is, cases under laws
imposing duties or imports or tonnage, or providing in terms
for revenue, (United States v. Hill, 123 U. S. 681,) which can
only come here on the merits on certificate or certiorari; yet
if in such a case a final judgment were rendered because of
want of jurisdiction, that judgment could be reviewed by this
court upon a certificate of the Circuit Court, while if jurisdiction were sustained and the merits adjudicated, although the
question of jurisdiction might be brought up directly, the Circuit Court of Appeals would undoubtedly have jurisdiction to
review the case upon the merits. Th'e provision that any case
ir which the question of jurisdiction is in issue may be taken
directly to this court, necesgarily extends to other cases than
those in which the final judgment rests on the ground of want
of jurisdiction, for in them that would be the sole question,
and the certificate, though requisite to our jurisdiction under
the statute, would not be in itself essential, however valuable
in the interest of brevity of record. But in such other cases,
the requirement that the question of jurisdiction alone should
be certified for decision was intended to operate as a limitation

UNITED STATES v. JAHN.
Opinion of the Court.

upon the jurisdiction of this court of the entire case and of all
questions involved in it, a jurisdiction which can be exercised
in any other class of cases taken directly to this court under
section five. Horner v. United States, 143 U. S. 570, 577.
The act certainly did not contemplate two appeals or writs of
error at the same time by the same party to two different
courts, nor does it seem to us that it was intended to compel
a waiver of the objection to the jurisdiction altogether or of
the consideration of the merits. By taking a case directly to
this court on the question of jurisdiction, the contention on
the merits would be waived, but it does not follow that the
jurisdictional question could not be considered, if the case
were taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals. The act was
passed to facilitate the prompt disposition of cases in this
court and to relieve it from the oppressive burden of general
litigation, but the rights of review by appeal or writ of error,
and of invoking the supervisory jurisdiction of this tribunal,
were sought to be amply secured and should not be circumscribed by too narrow a construction.
If in the case at bar the question of jurisdiction had been
raised by the United States in the Circuit Court and the jurisdiction sustained, and the decision on the merits, had then
been rendered against the government, would the United
States have been compelled to waive their contention on the
merits and have the question of jurisdiction certified to this
court, or would they have waived the question of jurisdiction
by taking the case to the Circuit Court of Appeals? We do
not think the act involves such a dilemma; but, on the contrary, are of opinion that the government would have had the
right to carry the cause to the Court of Appeals, which could
have then certified the; question of jurisdiction to this court
for determination. Of course, the power to certify assumes
the power to decide; but if decided there, by certiorari,when
necessary, the same review could be obtained here as on certificate for instruction. And although the question of -jurisdiction was not put in issue in the Circuit Court, still, as the
objection in the Circuit Court of Appeals went to jurisdiction
over the subject-matter, no omission in that regard could
VOL. crv-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

supply absolute want of power, and the Circuit Court of
Appeals was bound to take notice of the question.
It is conceded that the United States assigned errors on the
merits as well as the error under consideration, and as the
question of jurisdiction lay at the'threshold, and the intent of
the act of March 3, 1891, was that that question should be
determined by this court, the Circuit Court of Appeals properly suspended any consideration of the case upon the merits
until that question could be determined upon certificate.
This was in accordance with the early case of 2feLish v. 1of,
141 U. S. 661, in which it was held that the writ of error or
appeal could be taken only after final judgment, except in the
cases specified in section seven of -the act, and Mr. Justice
Lamar, delivering the opinion, said: "When that judgment
is rendered, the party against whom it is rendered must elect
whether he will take his writ of error or appeal to the Supreme Court upon the question of jurisdiction alone, or to the
Circuit Court of Appeals upon the whole case; if the latter,
then the Circuit Court of Appeals may, if it deem proper,
certify the question of jurisdiction to this court." The same
course was pursued in lHew Orleans v. Benjamin, 153 U. S.
411. The case was one in which the question of jurisdiction
was raised in the Circuit Court, the jurisdiction maintained,
and judgment rendered on the merits. The defendant did
not ask that the question of jurisdiction be certified to this
court by the Circuit Court, but carried the whole case to the
Circuit Court of Appeals; and that court certified to us the
questions involving the jurisdiction, which were accordingly
answered.
Giving the act a reasonable construction, taken as a whole,
we conclude- (1) If the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is in
issue and decided in favor of the defendant, as that disposes
of the case, the plaintiff should have the question certified and
take his appeal or writ of error directly to this court; (2) If
the question of jurisdiction is in issue, and the jurisdiction
sustained, and then judgment or decree is rendered in favor
of the defendant on the merits, the plaintiff, who has maintamined the jurisdiction, must appeal to the Circuit Court of

UNITED STATES v. JAHN.
Opinion of the Court.

Appeals, where, if the question of jurisdiction arises, the Circuit Court of Appeals may certify it; (3) If the question of
jurisdiction is in issue, and the jurisdiction sustained, and
judgment on the merits is rendered in favor of the plaintiff,
then the defendant can elect either to have the question certified and come directly to this court, or to carry the whole
case to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and the question of jurisdiction can be certified by that court; (4) If in the case last
supposed the plaintiff has ground of complaint in respect of
the judgment he has recovered, he may also carry the case to
the Circuit Court of Appeals on the merits, and this he may
do by way of cross-appeal or writ of error if the defendant
has taken the case there, or independently, if the defendant
has carried the case to this court on the question of jurisdiction
alone, and in this instance the Circuit Court of Appeals will
suspend a decision upon.the merits until the question of jurisdiotion has been determined; (5) The same observati6ns are
applicable where a plaintiff objects to the jurisdiction and is,
or both parties are, dissatisfied .with the judgment on the
merits.
Glas~ell's case illustrates this situation, though arising under
somewhat different circumstances. Glaspell brought an action
in the District Court of Stutsman County,-in the then Territory
of Dakota., against the Northern Pacific Railroad Company,
and recovered a verdict of $12,545.43. After the State
of North Dakota was admitted into the Union, including
Stutsman County, the defendant petitioned for the removal
of the case into the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of North Dakota, and it was removed accordingly.
Glaspell moved to remand, which motion was denied. The:
Circuit Court then granted a new trial and the case was retried
in that court, Glaspell insisting throughout upon his objection
to the jurisdiction, and it resulted in a verdict for the plaintiff
of $1120, upon which judgment was entered with costs. From
that. judgment Glaspell prosecuted a writ of error on the. 16th
day of June, 1891, from this court upon the question of jurisdiction. While his writ of error was pending, July 30, 1891,
the defendant, upon alleging errors occurring upon the trial

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

on the merits, sued out a writ of error from the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit and Glaspell filed in that court
a motion to dismiss the writ of error on the ground that the
court was without jurisdiction for the reason that the action
was pending on the writ of error from this court, which was
duly issued and served before the writ from the Circuit Court
of Appeals was allowed. But the motion to dismiss was overruled, and the cause continued awaiting our decision upon the
question of jurisdiction. fNorthern PaciicRailroadv. Glaspell,
4 U. S. App. 238.
This court subsequently held that the Circuit Court for the
District of North Dakota had no jurisdiction, and reversed
the judgment, and remanded the case with directions to remand it to the state court. Glaspell v. -Northern Pacific
Railroad,144 U. S. 211.
In Carey v. Houston & Texas Railway, 150 U. S. 170, it
appeared that two appeals had been prayed from the decree
by the losing party, one to this court and one to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, which appeals had been
severally allowed and duly perfected, but, as we held, for
reasons therein given, that we had no jurisdiction, the circurn-.
stance became unimportant.
In lYorthern Pacific Railroad v. .Amato, 144 U. S. 465, a
suit was brought in the Supreme Court of New York against
a railroad corporation created by an act of Congress, to recover
damages for personal injuries sustained by the plaintiff from
the negligence of the defendant, and was removed by the defendant into the Circuit Court of the United States, where a
trial was had, which resulted in a verdict and judgment for
the plaintiff. The defendant took a writ of error 'from the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which affirmed
the judgment. On a writ of error taken by the defendant
from this court to the Circuit Court of Appeals, a motion was
made by the plaintiff to dismiss or affirm; and it was ruled,
among other things, that as it did not appear by the record
that on the trial in the Circuit Court the defendant made any
objection to the jurisdiction of that court, and the petition for
removal recognized the jurisdiction, the plaintiff could not be

ALLIS v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

heard to assert, as a ground for the motion to- dismiss, that
the defendant might have taken a wrib of error from this court
to the Circuit Court under section five of the said act of 1891,
and had, by failing to do so, waived this right.
We are of opinion that the Circuit Court of Appeals was in
the proper exercise of jurisdiction in certifying the question
which it did, and that our jurisdiction to answer it is properly
invoked.
The decision in United States v. RMingenberg, 153 U. S. 93,
covers the case and requires
The question certified to be answered in the aiffrmative, and
it is so ordered.

ALLIS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.

.

No. 661. Argued October 23, 1894.-Decided November 12, 1894.

When the record in a criminal case brought here by the defendant is meagre,
containing only a small portion of the evidence, this court must assume,
as the verdict was sustained by the court below, that the testimony was
sufficient to establish defendant's guilt.
When a defendant is tried on an indictment charging false entries at different times running through several months, it is no error to admit evidence
of such acts during the whole period, although he may be found guilty
of only one such act.
Evidence having been given bearing upon one such alleged false entry,
made at a period considerably later than the only one of which the defendant was found guilty, no advantage can be taken by the defendant
here of the refusal of the court below to allow a cross question touching
such evidence.
It is common practice and no error to recallfa jury, after they have been in
deliberation for a length of time, for'th6 purpose of ascertaining what
difficulties they have in the consideration of the case, and of making
proper efforts to assist them in'their solution, and the time at which
such recall shall be made must be left to the discretion of the trial court.
There is nothing in the record to show that the court in this case abused
this discretion.
Rulings not specifically excepted to below are not reviewable here.

