OCTOBER TERMg 1894.
Syllabus.

Pub. Stat. R. I. c. 23, § 9. But having acted in that capacity,
the presumption will be indulged, nothing to the contrary
appearing, that he was duly commissioned or appointed to the
office whose functions he exercised. It was not necessary, in
the first instance, in order to prove the offence charged, to produce his commission or introduce other official evidence of his
appointment. Such is the general rule. It is one of public
convenience and of long standing. Bermjman v. ise, 4 T. R.
366; 1 Greenleaf's Ev. § 92; 1 Bishop's Or. Pro. § 1130, and
authorities cited; 1 Wharton Or. Ev. § 833, and authorities
cited; Beg. v. Roberts, 14 Cox Or. Cas. 101, 103; Beg. v.
fJoward, 1 M1[oody & Rob. 187; Rex v. Verelst, 3 Camp. 432.
What has been said meets all the points suggested in the
brief of counsel for the plaintiff in error.
Judgment ajfirmed.

POTTER v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 531.

Argued November 14, 15, 1S94.-

Decided December 17,1894.

In an indictment for a statutory offence, while it is doubtless true that it is
not always sufficient to use simply the language of the statute in describing the offence, yet, if such language is, according to the natural -import
of the words, fully descriptive of the offence, then ordinarily it is sufficient.
A charge in an indictment that tile defendant was president of a national
bank, and as such on a day and at a place named unlawfully, knowingly,
and wilfully certified a certain cheque, (describing it,) drawn upon the
bank, and that the drawer did not then and there have on deposit with
the bank an amount of money equal to-the amount specified in the cheque,
is a sufficient averment of the offence described in Rev. Stat. § 5208,
the punishment for which is provided for in the act of July 12, 1882, c.
290, 22 Stat. 162,'166.
As it is of the essence of the offence against those acts that the criminal act
should have been done wilfully, a person charged with it is entitled to
have submitted tro the jury, on the question of "1wilful" wrongdoing,
evidence of an agreement on the part of the officers of the bank that it
should be treated as a loan from day to day, secured by ample collateral,

POTTER v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.
and that for the cheque certified each day there was deposited each day
an ample amount of cash.
In a criminal trial the burden of proof is on the government, and the defendant is entitled to the benefit of a reasonable doubt; and when testimony
contradictory or explanatory is introduced by the defendant, it becomes
a part of the burden resting upon the government, to make the case so
clear that there is no reasonable doubt as to the inferences and presumptions-claimed to flow from the evidence.

By section 5208 of the Revised Statutes it is provided that
"it shall be unlawful for any officer, clerk, or agent of any
national banking association to certify any cheque drawn
upon the association unless the person or company drawing
the cheque has on deposit with the association, at the time
such cheque is certified, an amount of money equal to the
amount specified in such cheque."
No penalty was imposed on the individual for a violation
of this section. But on July 12, 1882, c. 290, 22 Stat. 162,
166, it was enacted:
"SEc. 13. That any officer, clerk, or agent of any national
banking association who shall wilfully violate the provisions
of an act entitled' An act in reference to certifying cheques
by national banks,' approved March third, eighteen hundred
and sixty-nine, being section fifty-two hundred and eight of
the Revised Statutes of the United States, or who shall resort
to any device, or receive any fictitious obligation, direct or
collateral, in order to evade the provisions thereof, or who
shall certify cheques before the amount thereof shalt have
been regularly entered to the credit of the dealer upon the
books of the banking association, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and shall," etc.
In May, 1892, the defendant was indicted in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Massachusetts
for a violation of these sections. The indictment contained
eighty-eight counts. By demurrer and nolle the last fortyeight counts were disposed of before the trial, which proceeded
upon the first forty. In these forty counts the unlawful certification of five cheques was charged, the first eight counts
relating to one cheque, the next eight to another, and so on.
The case came on for trial in February, 1893, and resulted in

OCTOBER TERMvf, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

a verdict of guilty on fifteen counts, three in respect to the
certification of each cheque. A motion for a new trial having been overruled, the defendant was sentenced to pay a fine
of $1000, and to be imprisoned in jail for the term of sixty
days. To reverse this judgment the defendant brought this
writ of error.
The third count in the indictment, which was one of those
upon which the defendant was found guilty, after stating
time and venue, and that the defendant was president of the
Maverick National Bank and authorized to lawfully certify
cheques, charged "that said Potter as such president as
aforesaid did then and there, to wit, on said twenty-third day
of July, at Boston aforesaid, within said district and within
the jurisdiction of this court, unlawfully, knowingly, and wilfully certify a certain cheque, which said cheque was then
and there drawn upon said association for the amount of
twenty-four hundred and fifty dollars by certain persons, to
wit, Irving A. Evans, Austin B. Tobey, and William S. Bliss,
copartners, then and there doing business under the firm name
and style of Irving A. Evans and Company, and which said
cheque was then and there of the tenor following -that is
to say :
'BOSTON,Jal- 23, 1891.

-i
.

$2450.

No. 54493.

Maverick National Bank.
Pay to the order of Hayward & Townsend $2450,
twenty-four hundred & fifty dollars.
IRVING A.

EVANs & C-.'

by then and there writing, placing, and putting in and upon

and across the face of said cheque the words and figures following - that is to say :

'Maverick National Bank.
Certified Jul- 23, 1891.
Pay only through clearing-house.
A. P. PorrTR, P.'

(meaning said Asa P. Potter, such president as aforesaid).
,Paying Teller.'

POTTER v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

that the said persons, as copartners under the firm name and
style as aforesaid, by whom said cheque .was then and there
drawn as aforesaid, did not then and there, to wit, at the time
said cheque was so certified by said Potter as aforesaid, have
on deposit with said association an amount of money then
and there equal to the amount then and there specified in said
cheque, to wit, the amount of twenty-four hundred and fifty
dollars in money, as he, the said Potter, then and there well
knew, against the peace and dignity of the said United States
and contrary to the form of the statute in such case made and
provided."
All the counts upon which the defendant was found guilty,
both -in respect to this and the other cheques, were, so far as
any question is involved in this case, substantially like the
one quoted.
On the trial the books of the bank were presented, showing
that at the time these five cheques were certified the account
of Evans & Co. was overdrawn in a large sum-between
$100,000 and $200,000. There was testimony tending to show
that upon each day that these cheques were certified, and prior
thereto, Evans & Co. deposited in cash an amount more than
sufficient to cover the certifications. Thereupon, as the bill
of exceptions shows"The defence called the defendant, Mr. Potter, and offered
to prove by him an oral agreement between I. A. Evans & Co.
and the Maverick National Bank, in the early part of 1891,
before June or July, 1891, that Evans & Co. might have a
loan by overdraft limited to $200,000, with interest to be
charged daily at the rate of six per cent, against which
collateral was to be put up, and further to show that the overdrafts existing in June and July, 1891, were under this agreement, and that collateral was actually deposited and kept
against it in the hands of the assistant cashier; that this
agreement was communicated to the executive officers of the
bank and to a majority of the directors of the bank, who
approved it, and this offer was made in connection with the
facts that appear in evidence in relation to the books of the
bank; also the defence offered another conversation between

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

Mr. Potter and Mr. Evans in relation to the matter of certification of cheques and deposits connected with this certification,
in which Mr. Evans called his attention to the fact that a
cheque had been refused certification, and Mr. Potter told Mr.
Evans that it was undoubtedly because he had no deposit
there. Whereupon Mr. Evans said, ' But I have a loan, as I
understand it;' to which Mr. Potter replied substantially,
' We cannot certify cheques against a loan; if you are going
to have certified cheques you must have deposits in the bank
to certify them against;' and that from that time forward the
deposits were in, to Mr. Potter's knowledge, from day to day
after this conversation with Mr. Evans, in which the defence
claims that the parties to the conversation understood distinctly
that the daily deposits were to be in for the very purpose of
certifying cheques.
"This whole offer was made by the defence as material
matter of substantive defence, as a part of the res g'est and
of the transaction, and as specifically beaiing upon the question of criminal intent ipon the part of the defendant. The
facts ' that appear in evidence in relation to the books of the
bank,' as referred to in the above offer and in connection with
which the offer is made, are heretofore fully stated in this bill
of exceptions."
And in pursuance of this offer the defendant asked the witness certain questions, for the purpose of showing a state of
facts, as indicated in the offer, but the testimony was rejected,
the court saying, in response to an 'inquiry of counsel as to
whether "a definite agreement" was ruled out "Yes, sir ; I rule out anything that does not appear on the
books of the bank in connection with this deposit. I think
what was on deposit and not on deposit as the case now
stands must be determined by what appears on the books of
the bank - as this case now stands - and the papers of the
bank."
Exceptions were duly taken to the action of the court in
this respect.
Among other instructions to the jury was the following:
"But, upon some reflection, I have come to the conclusion

POTTER .v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

that notwithstanding Evans & Co. may have been overdrawn
on the morning of any particular day and during the whole
of that day, yet if the bank did in fact receive a special deposit and set aside certain cheques or other moneys and hold
them for the purpose of covering the certified cheques, that it
would not be any violation of the letter or policy of the
statute and would be a defence. But I must say, gentlemen,
that I am unable to see in this case any evidence that anything of that sort was done. I am unable to see in the case
any evidence - I do not mean to say evidence of what was
intended or agreed to be done, which is not essential to this
case, but any evidence that as a matter of fact any of these
cheques deposited by Evans & Co. did not go into the general
deposit account and were not absorbed the instant they passed
into the bank. Upon this branch of the case I instruct you
the burden of proof is on the defence - not proof beyond a
reasonable doubt, but to satisfy you by a preponderance of
evidence. If the defence does satisfy you by the preponderance of evidence that there was a segregation in fact appearing upon or shown from the books and papers of the banka segregation, a setting apart of certain deposits sufficient to
cover the certified cheques and against which the cheques were
certified - it is a defence in this case."
To the giving of which, instruction the defendant at the
time duly excepted.
2f1. W. S B. 1opkins and fMr. .Henry D. Hfyde, (with whom
was. Ar. William A. Sargent on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
_r. Assistant Attorney General Conrad for defendants in
error.
MR.

JUSTICE

BREWER,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The only questions which we deem it material to consider
are those presented by the foregoing extracts from the record.
The first is, was the indictment sufficient?
It is objected that "certification," to constitute an offence

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

within the scope of the statute, must be such an act or series
of acts as creates a contract binding upon the bank; that a
mere writing of the word " certified" on a cheque does not,
until delivery to some person, have any such effect; and that
while an indictment, charging simply in the language of the
statute that the defendant wrongfully certified a cheque, might
carry an implication that the cheque was not only written upon
but also delivered so as to complete the contract included in
the word "certification," yet here the pleader has limited the
scope of those words by a particular statement of what the
defendant did, which statement does not include the matter
of delivery. Every allegation made in the indictment might,
it is said, be satisfied by proof that the defendant, finding on
his table a cheque of the form described, wrote the words
thereon as charged, and then tore the paper up and threw it
in the, fire, or disposed of it in some other way so as not to
create any obligation against the bank.
We think this is placing too narrow a construction on the
indictment. The offence charged is a statutory one, and
while it is doubtless true that it is not always sufficient to
use simply the language of the statute in. describing such an
offence, United States v. Car l, 105 U. S. 611, yet if such language is, according to the natural import of the words, fully
descriptive of the offence, then ordinarily it is sufficient.
The word "certify" as commonly understood implies that
the cheque, upon which the words of certification have been
written, has passed from the custody of the bank and into the
hands of some other party, and when the charge is that the
defendant "did unlawfully, knowingly and wilfully certify a
certain cheque," the import of that accusation is not simply
that he wrote certain words on the face of the cheque, but that
he did it in such a manner as to create an obligation of the
bank; in such a way as to make an instrument which can
properly be called a certified cheque. And the subsequent
recital, "by then and there writing, placing, and putting in
and upon and across the face of said cheque the words and
figures following," etc.,. is not to be taken as absolutely limiting the import of the word "certified" to the mere act of so

POTTER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion 'of the Court.

writing, placing, etc., but as simply descriptive of the form
of the certification - of that which he personally did. It was
not necessary, to constitute the offence, that he should himself deliver the cheque to some third party outside the bank, or
even that he should take any part in such delivery. His
offence would be complete if, after he had written the words
of certification as stated, with the intefit that they should be
used to create a contract on the part of the bank, the actual
delivery had been made by some clerk or other officer of the
bank without his actual knowledge. The full details of the
transaction by which the words written by him upon the face
of this instrument became operative to make it a "certified
cheque" were matters of evidence rather than of allegation.
An unlawful certification is in terms charged, and the form
of the writing creating the certification is givenIt is generally true as claimed that where an indictment is
unnecessarily descriptive, even the unnecessary description
must be proved as laid; but that proposition does not seem to
be in point, for it is not claimed that the testimony did not
show just such a writing as is 6harged to have been made by
the defendant, and surely .it
cannot be claimed that unnecessary matter of description must be proved otherwise thn as
it is stated. While there is plausibility in the contention of
counsel, yet we think it would be giving an unnecessary strictness to the language of the indictment to adjudge it insufficient, or to hold that it failed to inform the defendant
6xactly of what he was accused, or lacked that precision and
certainty of description which would enable him to always
use a judgment upon it as a bar to any other prosecution;
and that, as we all know, is the substantial purpose of a
written charge.
The next question relates to the admissibility of the testimony which was offered and rejected. The charge is of a
wilful violation. That is the language of the statute. Section 5208, Revised Statutes, makes it unlawful for any officer
of a national bank -to certify a cheque unless the drawer has
on deposit at the time an equal amount of money. But this
section carries with it no penalty against the wrongdoing

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

officer. Section 13 of the act of 1882 imposes the penalty,
and imposes it upon one "who shall wilfully violate," etc., as
well as upon one "who shall resort to any device," etc., "to
evade the provisions of the act;" "or who shall certify cheques
before the amount thereof shall have been regularly entered
to the credit of the dealer upon the books of the banking association." The word "wilful" is omitted from the description
of offences in the latter part of this section. Its presence in
the first cannot be regarded as mere surplusage; it means
something. It implies on the part of the officer knowledge
and a purpose to do wrong. Something more is required than
an act of certification made in excess of the actual deposit, but
in ignorance of that fact or without any purpose to evade or
disobey the mandates of the law. The significance of the
word "wilful" in criminal statutes has been considered by this
court. In Felton v. United States, (96 U. S. 699, 702,) it was
said:
"Doing or omitting to do a thing knowingly and wilfully,
implies not only a knowledge of the thing, but a determination with a bad intent to do it or to omit doing it. ' The word
" wilfully,"' says Chief Justice Shaw, ' in the ordinary sense
in which it is used in statutes, means not merely "voluntarily," but with a bad purpose.' 20 Pick. (lass.) 220. 'It is
frequently understood,' says Bishop, 'as signifying an evil
Crim. Law, vol. 1, § 428."
intent without justifiable excuse.'
Arnd later, in the case of Evans v. United States, 153 U. S.
584, 594, there was this reference to the words "wilfully
misapplied :"
"In fact, the gravamen of the offence consists in the evil
design with which the misapplication is made, and a count
which should omit the words ' wilfully,' etc., and f with intent
to defraud,' would be clearly bad."
Now, it is not disputed that if the overdraft had in form
been cancelled on the books of the bank and a note taken for
the amount thereof, so that the obligation of Evans & Co.
was evidenced only by a note, and not left as an open account,
this particular section of the law would not be applicable, and
any wrong done by the defendant in making or continuing

POTTER z. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

such a loan would have to be punished by proceedings under
some other section. If at the opening of the account a note
of $200,000 had been discounted and the amount entered to
the credit of Evans & Go., the certifications complained of
would not have been in violation of this section, because the
credit side of the account would always have been in excess
of the certifications; or if, at the close of each day's business,
a note had been taken for the balance due the bank and the
open account cancelled, the same result would follow, because
each morning before any certification an amount in money
was deposited larger than the total certifications of the day.
The testimony offered tended to show an agreement on the
part of the officers of the bank to treat this overdraft as a
loan, drawing interest and secured by collateral, and that such
agreement was carried into effect by the deposit of the collat-,
eral and the casting up of interest. If the defendant in good
faith supposed that this arrangement was the equivalent of a
loan by note, and that the indebtedness of Evans & Co. was
fully secured by collateral, it seems to us that the jury would
have a right to be informed of the fact as bearing upon the
question whether he had "wilfully" violated the statute. It
cannot be that the guilt or innocence of the defendant under
this indictment turns upon the mere matter of bookkeeping.
While it is true that care must be taken not to weaken the
wholesome provisions of the statutes designed to protect depositors and stockholders against the wrongdoings of banking
officials, it is of equal importance that they should not be so
construed as to make transactions of such officials, carried on
with the utmost honesty and in a sincere belief that no wrong
was being done, criminal offences, and subjecting them to the
severe punishments which may be imposed under those statutes.
We must not be understood a§ holding that this testimony
established an absolute defence, and that by the form of such
an agreement the mandatory terms of section 5208 can be
evaded, but only that evidence of a positive agreement upon
the part of the officers of the bank that this overdraft account
should be practically treated as a loan from day to day, to be
and in fact secured by ample collateral -coupled with testi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

mony that for the cheques certified each day there was deposited in advance an ample amount of cash - should have been
submitted to the jury on the question of "wilful" wrongdoing.
As "wilful" wrong is of the essence of the accusation, testimony bearing directly on the question of wilfulness is of vital
importance, and error in rejecting it cannot be regarded otherwise than as material and manifestly prejudicial.
The remaining question is in reference to the instruction as
to the burden of proof. We think that, so far as respects
the particular matter mentioned in the instruction quoted, the
rule remains as in other phases of a criminal trial; that the
burden of proof is on the government, and the defendant is
entitled to the benefit of a reasonable doubt. It may be that
certain presumptions follow from the entries in the books, and
accompanying testimony introduced by the government. It
may also be that those presumptions are conclusive in the
absence of contradictory or explanatory testimony, and, in
that aspect of the case, that the defendant must introduce
something to weaken the otherwise conclusive force of such
presumptions; but whenever testimony thus contradicting or
explaining is introduced, it becomes a part of the burden resting upon the government to make the case so clear that there
is no reasonable doubt as to the inferences and presumptions
claimed to flow from the books or other evidence.
Judgment reversed, and new trial ordered.

ALSOP v. RIKER.
RIKER v. ALSOP.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Nos. 59, 63. Argued November 8, 1894. -Decided

December 10, 1894.

A court of equity, in the exercise of its inherent power to do justice between parties, will, when justice demands it, refuse relief, even if the

