OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Counsel for the Motion.

St/Jord v. Watson, 41 Arkansas, 1. But the appearance of
the State did not cure the radical defect in the proceedings
under which complainant purchased. The notice was essential
in order to affect the rights of the owner of the property as
against whom the proceedings were initiated and the sale was
made. The appearance of the State did not, therefore, give
the court jurisdiction or render the sale valid. There are
other contentions urged, but they are all covered by what
has been already said. They either arise from the erroneous
postulate that the complainant's title is not void, but simply
voidable, or are predicated on the equally unsound premise
that one having no title can successfully invoke the aid of a
court of equity to "remove a cloud" from such non-existent
title; that is to say, can ask a court to subtract something
from nothing.
Decree reversed and case 'emanded with directions to dismiss the bill.

BOBB v. JAMISON.
ERROR TO THE SUPRE3E COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 267.

Submitted December 10, 189t.-Decided

December 17,1894.

Duncan v. Xissouri, 152 U. S. 377, affirmed and followed.
MOTION to dismiss.
This cause, after trial below, was argued
before the Supreme Court of Missouri, Division No. 2, in banc.
The organization of that court is set forth in the statement
of facts in Duncan v. -Missouri, 152 U. S. 377. After the
court had given its opinion and announced its judgment, the
plaintiffs in error for the first time raised a Federal question in the cause in a motion for a rehearing. That motion
being denied, the case was brought here by writ of error,
which writ the defendants in error moved to dismiss.

Ytr. Thomas . Rowe in support of the motion.

AUSTIN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

-Mr. -Michael Zinealy, (with whom was -Mr. James 1.
Kinealy on the brief,) opposing.
THE CmEF JUSTICE: The writ of error is dismissed on the
authority of Duncan v. -Missouri, 152 U. S. 377, and cases
cited.
Writ oqf error dismissed.

AUSTIN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROIE THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 89. Argued October 26, 1894. -Decided

December 17, 1894.

The act of March 3, 1883, c. 111, 22 Stat. 804, authorizing the Court of Claims
to hear and determine the claims of the successors and representatives
of Sterling T. Austin, deceased, for cotton alleged to have been taken
from him in Louisiana by the authorities of the United States in 1863, 1864,
and 1865, "any statute of limitation to the contrary notwithstanding,
.provided, however, that it be shown to the satisfaction of the court that
neither Sterling T. Austin, Senior, nor any of his surviving representatives, gave any aid or comfort to the late rebellion, but were throughout
the war loyal to the government of the United States," made the
establishment of loyalty in fact, as contradistinguished from innocence
in law produced by pardon, a-prerequisite to jurisdiction, and the Court
of Claims, having found that the claimant was not thus loyal, properly
dismissed the petition.

CLAIMANT filed a petition in the Court of Claims, June 5,
1883, alleging that Sterling T. Austin, of the parish of Carroll,
in the State of Louisiana, died in that State July 9, 1879 ; that
March 20, A.D. 1883, claimant was duly appointed adininistratrix of the estate of said decedent, and duly qualified as
such; and that her letters of administration were in full force.
The petition set up an act of Congress, approved March 3,
1883, c. 111, 22 Stat. 8041, entitled " An act for the relief of the
representatives of Sterling T. Austin, deceased," which referred
the claims of the successors in interest and legal representatives
of Sterling T. Austin for cotton taken by the military authorities of the United States during the war to the Court of
VOL. CLV-27

