OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

tion of title to property situated in the States, where the
courts of the United States, proper, are parts of the Federal
system, "invested with the judicial power of the United
States expressly conferred by the Constitution, and to be
exercised in correlation with the presence and jurisdiction of
the several state courts and governments." Ilornbuckle v.
Toombs, 18 Wall. 648, 655.
And as wherever the United States exercise the power of
government, whether under specific grant, or through the
dominion and sovereignty of plenary authority as over the
Territories, Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1, 48, that power
includes the ultimate executive, legislative, and judicial power,
it follows that the judicial action of all inferior courts established by Congress may, in accordance with the Constitution,
be subjected to the aplellate jurisdiction of the supreme judicial tribunal qf the government. There has never been any
question in regard to this as applied to territorial courts, and
no reason can be perceived for applying a different rule to
the adjudications of the Court of Private Land Claims over
property in the Territories.
The motion to dismiss is
Denied.

SIPPERLEY v. SMITH.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF'UTAH.
No. 688. Submitted October 15, 1894. - Decided October 29, 1894.

The rule reiterated that where a judgment or decree is joint, all the parties
against whom it is rendered must join in the writ of error or appeal,
unless there be summons and severance or the equivalent.
MOTION

to dismiss or affirm.

The court stated the case as

follows :
A. F. Sipperley and H. S. Lee, composing a partnership under
the firm name of A. F. Sipperley & Co., d6ing business in the
city of Salt Lake, Utah, made an assignment of their partner-

SIPPERLEY v. SMITH.
Statement of the Case.

ship property to one Ross in trust to convert the same into
money and pay creditors in the order named, first, M. J. Gray
and the Union Bank of Greeley, Colorado, in full; second, Mrs.
A. F. Sipperley, Mrs. E. J. Walling, and I. A. Lee, certain
individual indebtedness, in full; third, their remaining creditors. John 0. Smith, George Whiting, Charles F. Connor,
and George S. Smith, composing the firm of Smith, ConnorA&
Co., brought suit against A. F. Sipperley and I. S. Lee, in the
District Court for the Third Judicial District of Utah Territory, and levied an attachment on the assigned property upon
the ground that Sipperley & Co. had disposed thereof with
intent to defraud their creditors. Thereupon. the preferred
creditors, Al. J. Gray, the Union Bank of Greeley, Colorado,
Mrs. Sipperley, Mrs. Walling, and H. A. Lee, filed an intervening complaint in said suit, praying for a receiver, and that
the assignment be declared valid and the indebtedness due
them be ordered to be paid out of the proceeds of the property and for general relief; which intervening complaint was
answered by the original plaintiffs, who prayed therein that
the assignment be adjudged fraudulent and void. The cause
was tried by the District Court of the Third Judicial District,
a jury having been duly waived ; the trial judge filed findings
of fact and conclusions of law, and rendered judgment, adjudging the assignment fraudulent and void ; dismissing the complaint of intervention; and directing the receiver (the assignee
having in the meantime been appointed receiver) to pay plaintiffs in certain other suits consolidated with this and then
these plaintiffs.
The title of the cause in the District Court under which the
findings of fact and conclusions of law appeared in the record,
and also the judgment, was as follows: "John 0. Smith et al.,
Plaintiffs, vs. A. F. Sipperley et al., Defendants, and M. J.
Gray, Mrs. A. F. Sipperley, Mrs; E. J. Walling, I. A. Lee,
and the Union Bank of Greeley, Colorado, Intervenors.' The
record did not contain the prayer for and allowance of appeal
to the Supreme Court of Utah, but showed as at the June
term, 1893, of that court, the following order: ":John 0.
Smith et al. vs. A. F. Sipperley et al., Def'ts, and M. J. Gray

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

et al., Intervenors & Appellants. This cause coming on regularly to be heard, was argued by Hon. John W. Judd in
behalf of appellants, by Charles C. Dey, Esq., in reply, was
submitted, and taken under advisement." The judgment of
the District Court was thereafter affirmed. The opinion of
the Supreme Court is given and is entitled, "John 0. Smith
et al., Respondents, vs. A. F. Sipperley et at., Appellants." Subsequently this order was entered: "John .0. Smith et al. Ils.
A. F. Sipperley, Def'ts, and M. J. Gray et al., Intervenors &
Appellants. In this cause counsel for- appellants prays the
allowance of an appeal from the judgment of this court, rendered therein, to the Supreme Court of the United States,
anl asks that the amount of a bond to be given thereon be
now fixed, and it was ordered that such appeal, as prayed for,
b6 and is hereby allowed, and the amount of a bond to be
given thereon is fixed in the sum of five thousand dollars, and
the amount of a bond for costs is fixed in the sum of five hundred (500) dollars."
The record disclosed a bond dated December 22, 1893,
entitled 'John 0. Smith et al., Respondents, vs. A. F. Sipperley et al., Defendants, and M. J. Gray et al., Intervenors,
Appellants," signed by Mirs. Sipperley, Mrs. Walling, H. A.
Lee, and the Union Bank of Greeley, Colorado, as principals,
running to John 0. Smith, George Whiting, Charles P. Connor, and George S. Smith, composing the firm of Smith,
Whiting, Connor & Co., in the penal sum of $5500, and
reciting that, "Whereas the above-named Mistress A. F. Sipperley, Mistress E. J. Walling, H. A. Lee, and the Union
Bank of Greeley, Colorado, have prosecuted an appeal to the
Supreme Court of 'the United States," etc. This bond was
approved by the Chief Justice of Utah, and filed on the day
of its date. Citation was issued, dated January 4, 189-1, and
directed to John 0. Smith, George W hiting, Charles P. Connor, George S. Smith, and their attorneys, reciting that Mrs.
Sipperley, Mrs. Walling, H. A. Lee, and the Union Bank of
Greeley, Colorado, had appealed, etc., service of which citation was admitted January 12, 1894. An assignment of errors
in this court was also filed in that court January 12, entitled

NEW YORK v. ENO.
Syllabus.

"John 0. Smith et at. vs. A. F. Sipperley et at., and Mrs. A.
F. Sipperley, Mrs. E. J. Walling, H. A. Lee, and the Union
Bank of Greeley, Colorado, Intervenors & Appellants." No
application for summons and severance as to M. J. Gray or
any equivalent therefor appeared in the record, nor any order
permitting severance; nor was any application made in this
court for the issue of citation to A. F. Sipperley and H. S.
Lee, or leave to perfect the appeal as to them; nor did they
or Gray appear herein.
Appellees moved to dismiss or affirm.
.Xr. C. H. A'mes for the motion.
.- r. J.

w. Judd opposing.

THE CHIEF JUSTICE: The motion to dismiss is sustained
upon the authority of .Masterson v. Herndon, 10 Wall. 416;
Hardee v. Wilson, 146 U. S. 179 ; 19iglehart v. Stansbnry, 15"1
U. S. 68; Davis v. -ercantile Trust Co., 152 U. S. 590.
._peal dismissed.

NEW YORK v. ENO.
APPEAL

FROM'I

THE CIRCUIT COURT 'OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 602. Argued and submitted October 17, 1894.-

Decided October 29, 1894.

Whether an offence described in an indictment in a state court is an offence
against the laws of that State and punishable thereunder, or whether it is
made by Federal statutes an offence against the United States, exclusively cognizable by their courts, and whether the same act may be an
offence against both national and state governments, punishable in the
tribunals of each, without infringing upon the constitutional, guaranty
against being twice put in jeopardy of limb for the same offence, are
questions which a state court of original jurisdiction is competent to
decide in the first instance; and, (its obligation to rexider such decision as
-will give full effect to the supreme law of the land, and protect any right
secured by it to the accused, being the same that rests upon the courts of

the United States,) the latter, if applied to for a writ of habeas comus in

