LINFORD v. ELLISON.
Statement of the Case.

force when the lease of May 1, 1870, was executed. Shortly
after that date, by the act of July 12, 1S70, c. 251, § 7, 16 Stat.
251, it was provided that no department of the government
should expend, in any one year, any sum in excess of appropriationsmade by Congress for that fiscal year, or involve
the government in any contract for the future payment of
money in excess of such appropriations. And that provision
is reproduced in section 3679 of the Revised Statutes.
We are of opinion that the lease sued on was not authorized
by law, and, consequently, no action can be maintained thereon.
The judgment is
Affrmed.
LINFORD v. ELLISON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 90. Submitted November 22, 1594.-DeIded December 1, 1894.

A judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah against the tax
collector of a municipal corporation for fifty dollars, the value of property levied on by him for unpaid municipal taxes, rendered on the ground
that a municipal corporation, which is a small village but has extensive
limits, cannot tax farming lands for municipal purposes lying within the
corporate limits but outside of the platted portion of the city and so far
removed from the settled portion thereof that the owner would receive
no benefits from the municipal government, does not draw in question
the validity of the organic law of the Territory or the scope of the authority to legislate conferred upon the territoriallegislature by Congress;
and as the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, does not exceed the sum
of five thousand dollars, nor involve the validity of a patent, or copyright, or of a treaty, this court is without jurisdiction to review it.

TEris was an action brought by Ephraim P. Ellison in the
District Court of the Third Judicial District of the Territory
of Utah against James H. Linford, Jr.; to recover damages
for the conversion of a wagon belonging to plaintiff, which
had been levied oa by defendant; as tax collector of the city
of Kaysville, for unpaid municipal taxes. A jury was waived,
and the cause submitted to the court for trial upon an agreed
statement of facts. The court held the taxes invalid, and
gave judgment in favor of plaintiff for $50 and costs. Defendant prosecuted an appeal to the Supreme Court of the Terri-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

tory, which affirmed the judgment, and defendant appealed
to this court. The Supreme Court of the Territory filed the
following findings of fact:
"First. That the defendant, James H. Linford, Jr., was the
legal and acting collector of taxes for the city of Kaysville
at the time of the transaction out of which this action arose.
"Second. That the city of Kaysville was a duly and legally
organized municipal corporation under the laws of the Territory of Utah, and in pursuance of ordinances duly passed
assessed and levied a regular municipal tax for city purposes
upon all the premises and property within its corporate limits.
"That, the tax levied upon the property of plaintiff not
being paid and having become delinquent, the defendant, in
pursuance of authority conferred by the ordinances of the city,
levied upon a wagon belonging to the plaintiff of the value
of fifty dollars and sold it to satisfy said taxes.
"Third. That the map or plat of the city of Kaysville, which
was a part of the. record and marked 'Exhibit 1,' correctly
shows the boundaries'of the city and the location of the several tracts of plaintiff's land and of his store with reference to
the platted and settled.portion of the said city, and that the
portion of the city which is platted into lots and blocks and
marked 'city lots,' as shown on said map, correctly shows the
thickly settled portions of said city and the only part thereof
whi ch is laid off into blocks and lots with streets and alleys.
"Fourth. That plaintiff owns the three tracts of land where
his name appears on the map, and that they are agricultural
linds, used for farming purposes only, and on which he resides,
and that he also owns a store at the point indicated by the
letters ' F. U.' and ' E. P. E.' at a little place called Layton;
that one of said tracts of land is situated a little over half a
mile from the nearest part of the platted portion of the city.
The second tract is situated about one mile and the third
tract about two miles from the platted portion of the city while
the store is situated about two miles away, at a little place
called Layton, on a county road leading to the city proper,
and also on the line of the Utah Central Railroad.
"Fifth. That the city of Kaysville was incorporated by

LINFORD v. ELLISOIN.
Opinion of the Court.

an act of the legislative assembly of Utah Territory passed
March 15th, 1868, and contains about six hundred inhabitants
in the platted portion thereof, and that it contains within its
corporate limits more than twenty-three square miles.
"Sixth. It is not shown that the platted and settled portion of the city or what may be termed the city proper is
likely to be extended in the direction of plaintiff's premises,
nor that any streets, driveways, or other improvements in that
direction are contemplated or are likely to be made, nor that
the plaintiff will receive any benefit from the expenditures of
the taxes for city purposes."
The cause was submitted on the merits and on a motion to
dismiss.
-Mr. Jabez G. Sutherland and Mr. Arthur Brown for the
motion to dismiss.
Xr. J. L. Rawlins opposing.
MR. CIEF JUsTIcE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
By the sixth section of the act establishing a territorial
government for Utah, it was enacted "that the legislative
power of said Territory shall extend to all rightful subjects
of legislation, consistent with the Constitution of the United
States and the provisions of this act; but no law shall be
passed interfering with the primary disposal of the soil ; no
tax shall be imposed upon the property of the United States;
nor shall the lands or other property of non-residents be taxed
higher than the lands or other property of residentg. All the
laws passed by the legislative assembly and governor shall be
submitted to the Congress of the United States, and, if disapproved, shall be null and of no effect." Act of September
9, 1850, c. 51, 9 Stat. 453.
The seventh section ol the charter of Kaysville provided:
"The city council shall have authority to levy and collect
taxes, for city purposes, upon all taxable property real and

OCTOBER TER1MX, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

personal, within the limits of the city, not exceeding one-half
of one per cent per annum upon the assessed value thereof;
and may enforce the payment of the same to be provided for
by ordinance, not repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States or to the laws of this Territory." 1 Comp. Laws
Utah, 1888, 427, 429.
In People v. _Daniels, 6 -Utah, 288, 292, 296, the Supreme
Court had under consideration certain taxes imposed upon
Daniels by a municipal corporation named Moroni City, the
seventh section of whose charter was identical with that of
Kaysville, and the question in respect to the legality of the
taxation the same hs in the case at bar. The Supreme Court
of Utah held that the taxation in question could not be sustained, and, among other things, said: "In the organic act
Congress, under restrictions, express or implied, confers upon
the territorial legislature authority to legislate with respect to
such subjects as concern the people of the Territory. When
the authority with respect to the subject is specific, and its
extent is clearly defined, the discretion of the legislature within
constitutional limitations cannot be questioned; the denial of
such discretion would be a denial of the power of Congress;
but when the power is given in general terms, and the extent
to which it may be exercised upon the subject is not expressly
limited and clearly defined in the organic act, then the territorial legislature must exercise its discretion. - So far as that
discretion is expressly limited by the Constitution 6r the
organic act such limitation must be observed; but when it is
not, the legislature must follow the dictates of reason and
justice. The law must be reasonable and just, because the
court will not presume that Congress intended to authorize
the legislature to make an unjust, an unreasonable, an unequal,
or an oppressive law. The subjects to which the power of the
territorial legislature extends are not specifically described,
and their number is limhited by the word 'rightful.' A law
upon a subject not of that number would be held void. In
that case the court would determine that the subject was not
within the power of the legislature; and as to the extent to
which the legislature may act on a rightful subject, when the

LINFORD v. ELLISON.
Opinion of the Court.

limit is not expressly fixed, the court must ascertain the limit
and determine whether the law is within it.. . . Municipal
charters, boundaries of cities and villages, and municipal taxation, are rightful subjects of legislation, but the extent of the
legislative discretion with respect to those subjects is not expressly limited ; there must be a reasonable limit, however, to
that discretion." The court applied to the provisions of the
organic act in question, conferring power on the legislature,
the rule of construction applicable to similar provisions in
municipal charters, as laid down in Dillon on Municipal Corporations, (4th ed., § 328,) namely, that what the legislature
distinctly says may be done cannot be set aside by the courts
because they may deem it to be unreasonable or against
sound policy, but where the power to legislate on a given
subject is conferred, and the mode of its exercise is not prescribed, then an ordinance passed in pursuance thereof must
be a reasonable exercise of the power or it will be pronounced
invalid. And upon principle and authority the court was of
opinion: "First, that municipal taxation should be limited
to the range of municipal benefits; second, that lands and
their occupants without the range of municipal benefits should
not be taxed to aid those within; third, that a law authorizing the assessment of .taxes for municipal purposes upon
lands or their occupants located beyond the range of municipal benefits is not a rightful subject of legislation; fourth,
that taxation for city purposes should be within the bounds
indicated by its buildings, or its streets and alleys, or other
public improvements, and contiguous or adjacent districts so
situated as .to authorize a reasonable expectation that they
will be benefited by the improvements of the city or protected
by its police; that no outside districts should be included
when it is apparent and palpable that the benefits of the city
to it will only be such as will be received by other districts
not included, such as will be common to all neighboring communities."
In'the case at bar, (7 Utah, 166,) the Supreme Court declared that it had no reason to doubt the 6orrectness of the
former decision, and affirmed the judgment of the District

OCTOBER TERMr, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Court. And, in accordance with the view that such taxation
was not within the power granted, it was ruled that "a municipal corporation, which is a small village, but having extensive limits, cannot tax farming lands for municipal purposes,
lying within the corporate limits but outside of the platted
portion of the city, and so far removed from the settled portion of the city that the owner will receive no benefits from
the municipal government."
It is thus seen that the decision of the Supreme Court of the
territory involved the construction of the organic law and
the scope of the authority to legislate conferred upon the
Territorial legislature; but that the validity of that authority
and of the statute was not drawn in question. In order to
give us jurisdiction of this appeal, the matter in dispute exclusive of costs must have exceeded the sum of $5000, or else,
without regard to the sum or value in dispute, the validity of
a patent or copyright must have been involved, or the validity
of a treaty or statute of or an authority exercised under the
United States have been drawn in question. Act of March
3, 1885, c. 355, 23 Stat. 443. Confessedly, the matter in dispute here did not reach the requisite pecuniary value, and the
validity of no patent or copyright was involved, nor was the
validity of a treaty questioned ; and, as just stated, we are of
opinion that the validity of no statute of the United States,
nor ofoan authority exercised under the United States, was
drawn in question within the intent and meaning of the jurisdictional act.
As was observed in Lynch v. United States, 137 U. S. 280,
285: "The validity of a statute is not drawn in question
every time rights claimed under such statute are controverted,
nor is the validity of an authority, every time an act done
by such authority is disputed. The validity of a statute or
the validity of an authority is drawn in question when the
existence, or constitutionality, or legality of such statute or
authority is denied, and the denial forms the subject of direct
inquiry."
In Baltimore & Potomac -Railroadv. 11opkins,
130 U. S. 210, 226, the question in controversy was whether
r , lrod coportio,
auhorzed
y ats
a railroad corporation,
authorized by
acts off Cogres
Congress tto

LINFORD v. ELLISON.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

establish freight stations, and to lay as many tracks as "its
president and board of directors might deem necessary" in
the District of Columbia, had the right to occupy a public
street for the purposes of a freight yard. It was argued
that the validity of an authority, exercised under the United
States, to so occupy the public streets, was drawn in question ;
but this court held otherwise, ahd said "The validity of the
statutes and the validity of authority exercised under them,
are, in this instance, one and the same thing; and the 'validity of a statute,' as these words are used in this act of Congress, refers to tho power of Congress to pass the particular
statute at all, and no to mere judicial construction as contradistinguished from a denial of the legislative power." And
see 8out/l Caqolina v. &ymour, 153 U. S. 353, where the cases
are marshalled and applied. The result is that the motion to
dismiss must be sustained.
Appleal dismissed.
XR.

TUSTICE HARLAN

dissenting.

I am of the opinion that this court has jurisdiction to review
the judgment below, and, consequently, that the writ of error
should not be dismissed.
We have jurisdiction to review the judgment or decree of
the Supreme Court of a Territory, without regard to the sum
or value in dispute in any case in which is ".drawn in question
the validity of . . . an authority exercised under the
United States." Act of March 3, 1885, c. 355, 23 Stat. 443.
The city of Kaysville, Utah, was incorporated and its territorial limits were defined by an act of the territorial legislature passed February 13, 1868, c. 9, Laws of Utah, 1868, 8;
1 Conpiled Laws of Utah, 1888, 427. That act provided that
the city council "shall have authority to levy and collect taxes,
for city purposes, upon all taxable property, real and personal,
within the limits of the city." §. 7. Within those limits were
the plaintiff's lands, part of a large body of what are alleged
to be merely "agricultural lands," outside of the platted part
of the city, and upon which, it was contended, taxes for city
purposes could not be legally imposed.

OCTOBER TERMf, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

Certain taxes were levied on the plaintiff's lands by the
municipal corporation of Kaysville. The issue in the court of
original jurisdiction was as to the liability of those lands for
taxes assessed by that corporation under the authority given
by the territorial statute. That court found, as conclusions of
law, that " the organization of the city of Kaysville, including
large quantities of agricultural lands which, at the time of its
organization, could not be benefited by municipal government,
was, at the time thereof, illegal and void, and that it now is
illegal and void, as to the lands which cannot by any possibility be benefited by municipal government;" that "to impose tax upon such lands is contrary to that part of the
Constitution which provides that private property shall not be
taken for public purposes without just compensation;" and
that the lands of the plaintiff "being agricultural lands, to
tax him would be to take his property without just compensation."
The District Court, therefore, held that the city of Kaysville "had no authority to tax the lands and property of Mr.
Ellison for municipal purposes."
It thus appears that the
validity of the authority given by the territorial legislature,
acting under the United States, to tax agricultural lands like
those belonging to the plaintiff, was directly drawn in question
and was passed upon by the court of original jurisdiction.
In the Supreme Court of the Territory the judgment was
affirmed. It is true that the findings of fact in that court
differed in some respects not vital in the present inquiry from
those made in the inferior territorial court, but they disclosed
the real issue between the parties, and the judgment of the
Supreme Court proceeded distinctly upon the ground that a
tax upon agricultural lands for city purposes was invalid and
void. This appears from the following extract from the opinion of that court: "The questions involved in this case were
fully considered and elaborated by this court in the case of
People v. Daniels, 6 Utah, 288; S.C 22 Pac. Rep. 159. The
case involved the validity of a tax on agricultural lands for
city purposes, and the tax was declared void. In that case
Zane, Ch. J., in delivering the opinion of the court, said that

LINFORD v. ELLISON.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

'taxation for city purposes should be within the bounds indicated by its buildings or streets or alleys or other public improvements, and contiguous or adjacent districts so situated as
to authorize a reasonable expectation that they will be benefited by the improvements of the city or protected by its
police; that no outside districts should be included when it is
apparent and palpable that the benefifs of the city to it will
be only such as will be received by other districts not included -such as will be common to all neighboring communities.' We see no reason to doubt the correctness of that
decision, and as it is decisive of the point involved in this case
the judgment of the District Court is affirmed."
That the Supreme Court of the Territory passed upon the
validity of the territorial statute so far as it authorizes the
taxation of agricultural lands for city purposes is made still
clearer by an examination of the opinion in People v..Daniels,
the decision in which was followed in the present case. In
that case it was adjudged that the taxation of agricultural
lands for city purposes was forbidden by the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution which prohibited the taking of private
property for public use without just compensation. The court
said: "Inasmuch as it appears from the record in the case that
the defendant resides and that his lands are situated outside of
Moroni City, as indicated by public or private improvements,
and beyond such contiguous or adjacent district as will be
benefited by its municipal expenditure, the court holds that
the territorial legislature had no power to subject his property
to the burden of taxation for the corporate purposes of the
city. The judgment of the court below is reversed, and the
cause is remanded."
The present case then is this: The legislature of the Territory, exercising whatever authority it has "under the United
States," passed a statute which embraced certain agricultural
lands within the limits of Kaysville, and assumed to authorize
that municipal corporation to tax them for city purposes. The
action of the corporation and its officers is based upon the territorial statute and is justified, if to be justified at all, only by
its provisions. Plainly, therefore, there was "drawn in ques-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

tion" the authority of the territorial legislature, acting "under
the United States," to confer upon a particular municipal corporation the power to tax the lands in question for purely city
purposes. No question was presented as to the mere construction of the statute. It is not disputed that the plaintiff's lands
are within the limits of Kaysville as defined by the act of the
territorial legislature. It is conceded that the seizure of the
plaintiff's wagon for the taxes on his lands was legal, if
the statute of the Territory was constitutional so far as it
authorized taxes to be imposed on such lands within the defined
limits of Kaysville as were agricultural lands, namely, lands
outside of the platted part of the city, which did not receive
the benefits of the city government. I submit that there is
n" disputed question in the case, except that which involves
the constitutional power of the territorial legislature, acting
under the United States, to authorize the imposition of taxes
for city purposes on lands situated as are those of the plaintiff.
The facts were agreed and it is apparent that the parties
intended to raise no question except as to the validity of the
authority exercised by the territorial legislature in empowering the city of Kaysville to tax the lands here in question.
These views expressed by me are not at all in conflict with
the decision in Baltimore & Potomac Railroad v. Hopkins,
130 U. S. 210, 226. The validity of the act of Congress
referred to in that case was not drawn in question. The issue
there was as to whether certain things were within or were
authorized by the provisions of that act. The dispute was as
to the construction, not the validity, of the act of Congress. I
cannot suppose that the Hopkins case would have been determined as it was, if it had appeared that the authority of Congress to pass the act referred to was drawn in question. Here
there is drawn in question the validity of a statute of the territorial legislature, acting under the United States, which permitted the taxation of certain kinds of lands for city purposes.
It seems to me that if a case in a territorial court turns upon
the validity of an act which is authorized by a statute of the
territorial legislature deriving its existence and powers from
the United States, and if that statute is itself drawn in ques-

STATE OF INDIANA v. GLOVER.
Statement of the Case.

tion is being repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States, then we have a case in which is "drawn in question the
validity of . . . an authority exercised under the United
States."

INDIANA ex rel. STANTON v. GLOVER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 57. Argued and submitted November 6,

I. - Decided January 7, 1835.

A Circuit Court has jurisdiction of a suit brought in the name of the State
in which the circuit is situated, on the relation of a citizen of another
State, to enforce the obligations of a bond given by citizens of the State
in which the suit is brought for the faithful performance of his duties
by a municipal officer of that State.
A certificate, made and payable in a State out of a particular fund, and purporting to be the obligation of a municipal corporation existing under
public laws and endowed with restricted powers, granted only for special
and local purposes of a non-commercial character, is not governed by
the law merchant, and is open in the hands of subsequent holders to the
same defences as existed against the original payee.
The sureties on the bond of the trustee of a municipal township in Ifidiana
are not subjected by the Revised Statutes of that State, §§ 6006, 6007, to
liability for the payment of warrants or certificates which, apart from
those sections, it was not within the authority of the trustee to execute,
or which were fraudulent in themselves.
A township trustee in Indiana cannot contract a debt for school supplies
unless supplies suitable and reasonably necessary for the township have
been actually delivered to and accepted by it.

THIS was an action brought in the name of the State of
Indiana on the relation of Walter Stanton, trustee, a citizen
of New York, against Afista Glover and four other defendants, citizens of Indiana, on the official bond of said Glover
as trust-, of Mill Creek township, 'in the c6unty of Fountain, State of Indiana, the other defendants being sureties on
said bond. The complaint was demurred to on the grounds
that it did not state fa6ts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action and that the court had no jurisdiction of the subjectVOL. cLv-33

