THOMPSON v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

THOMPSON v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF' ARKANSAS.
No. 637. Submitted October 18, 1S94. -Decided

December 3, 1894.

Courts of justice are invested with authority to discharge a jury from giving any verdict, whenever in their opinion, taking all the circumstances
into consideration, there is a manifest necessity for the act, or the ends
of public justice would otherwise be defeated, and to order a trial by
another jury; and a defendant is not thereby twice put in jeopardy,
within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States.
Sundry errors in the charge of the court below commented on, and Gourko
v. United States, 153 U. S. 183 approved and applied to the Issues In this
case, viz.:
(1) A person who has an angry altercation with another person, such
as to lead him to believe that he may require the meahs of selfdefence in case of another encounter, may be justified in the eye
of the law, in arming himself for self-defence; and if, on meeting his adversary on a subsequent occasion, he kills him, but not
in necessary self-defence, his crime may be that of manslaughter
or murder, as the circumstances on the occasion of the killing
make it the one or the other:
(2) If, looking alone at those circumstances, his crime be thiat of manslaughter, it is not converted into murder by reason of his having
previously armed himself.

IN the District Court of the United States for the Western
District of Arkansas, on November 23, 1893, a jury was sworn
to try the issue formed between the United States and Thomas
Thompson, under an indictment wherein said Thompson was
charged with the murder of one Charles Hermes, and to which
the accused pleaded not guilty.
After the case had been opened by counsel for the government and the defendant respectively, and after Tacob Hermes,
a witness for the government, had been called and examined
in chief, the judge stated that it had come to his knowledge
that one of the jurors was disqualified to sit on account of
having been a member of the grand jury that returned the
indictment in the case. The defendant, by his counsel, ob-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

jected to proceeding further in the trial of the cause with the
said juror on account of his incompetency as aforesaid.
Whereupon the court ordered the discharge of the jury and
that another jury be called, to which action of the court the
defendant, by his counsel, at the time excepted.
On N ovember 27, 1893, the defendant filed a plea of former
jeopardy, and also a motion for a jury from the body of the
district; and it appearing from an examination, in the presence of the defendant, that a number of the regular panel of
jurors were disqualified because of opinions formed after having heard part of the evidence, the court ordered the marshal
to summon from the bystanders twenty-eight legal voters of
the Western District of Arkansas, to be used as talesmen in
making up a jury for the trial of the case. On December 1
a motion was filed on behalf of the defendant, to quash that
part of the panel of jurors consisting of twenty-eight men
summoned from bystanders, which motion, was overruled, and
the petition of the defendant asking for a jury from the body
of the district, drawn in the regular manner from the jury-box
b y the jury commissioners, was refused. The government's
attorney then moved that a jury be called for the trial. The
defendant objected to the twelve men being called who had
been theretofore empanelled for the trial of the cause, which
objection the court sustained, and the clerk was ordered to
omit in the call the names of said jurors.
Among the jurors called by the clerk were Wilson G. Gray,
William IM. Perkins, and Isaac B. Sloan, who were members
of the regular panel for the present term of the court, and
whose names were on the list of jurors served upon defendant
at the beginning of the term, and before the first jury in this
cause was empanelled, and when the first jury was empanelled
these three jurors were by the defendant peremptorily challenged. Their names were not upon the certified list of jurors
last served upon the defendant after the first jury had been
discharged. The challenge for cause made by defendant to
these three jurors was overruled, whereupon the defendant
peremptorily challenged them. The defendant likewise filed
a written challenge for cause to the twenty-eight men called

THOMPSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

as talesmen, for the reasons that they did, not belong to the
regular panel of jurors, that they were not from the body of
the district, but were all residents of the city of Fort Smith,
in the immediate neighborhood of the place of trial. This
challenge was overruled.
The jury was thereupon sworn, and the trial proceeded
with, resulting in a verdict, under- the instructions of the
court, for the government in the issue formed by the plea of
former jeopardy, and in a verdict that the defendant was
guilty of murder as charged in the indictment.
Motions for a new trial and in arrest of judgment were.
overruled and sentence of death was pronounced against the
defendant.
Upon errors alleged in the proceedings of the court, and in
the charge to the jury, a writ of error was sued out to this
court.
Ar. A. .H. Garlandfor plaintiff in error..
M'. Awistant Attorney General. Wkiny, for defendants
in error.
MR. JusTicE

SHmRAS,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion bf the court.
The record discloses that, while the trial was proceeding, a
jury having been sworn and a witness examined, the fact that
one of the jury was disqualified, by having been a member of
the grand jury that found the indictment, .became known to
the court. Thereupon the court, without the consent of the
defendant, and under exception, discharged the jury, and
directed that another jury should be called. The defendant,
by his counsel, pleaded that he had been once in jeopardy
upon and for the same charge and offence for which he now
stood charged. The court permitted this plea to be filed, and
submitted the question to the jury, with instructions to find.
the issue in favor of the government. Such a verdict was
accordingly rendered, and the cause was then disposed of
VOL. CLV-I8

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

under the plea of not guilty, and resulted in a verdiot of
guilty under the indictment.
The defendant now seeks, in one of his assignments of
error, the benefit of the constitutional provision that no person shall be subject for the same offence to be twice put in
jeopardy of life and limb.
As the matter of the plea puis darrein continuance, setting
out the previous discharge of a jury after having been sworn,
and the plea of not guilty were not inconsistent with each
other, it accorded with the rules of criminal pleading that
they might stand together, though, of course, it was necessary
that the issue under the first plea should be disposed of before
the cause was disposed of under the plea of not guilty. Commonwealth v. .ferrill, 8 Allen, 5-5; 1 Bishop on Criminal
Procedure, ยง 752.
As to the question raised by the plea of former jeopardy,
it is sufficiently answered by citing U ited"States v. Perez, 9
Wheat. 579; Simmons v. United States, 142 U. S. 148, and
Logan v. United States, 144 U. S. 263. Those cases clearly
establish the law of this court, that courts of justice are invested with the authority to discharge a jury from giving any
verdict, whenever in their opinion, taking all the circumstances into consideration, there is a manifest necessity for the
act, or the ends of public justice would otherwise be defeated,
and to order a trial by another jury; and that the defendant is not thereby twice put in jeopardy within the meaning
of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States.
The evidence in the case substantially disclosed the following facts:
The defendant, Thompson, was an Indian boy-about seventeen years of age, and lived with Sam Haynes, a Creek Indian,
who had a farm near Okmulgee in the Creek Nation. The
deceased, Charles Hermes, lived with his father on land
rented from Haynes, and distant about half a mile from the
house of the latter. There was testimony tending to Show
ill feeling on the part of Hermes and his sons towards this
Indian boy, and that they had threatened to injure him if he

THOMPSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

came about where they were. Thompson could not speak or
understand the English language, but he had been told by
Haynes and another witness that old man Hermes had
claimed that he, Thompson, had been abusing and killing his
hogs, and that if he "came acting the monkey around him
any more he would chop his head open."
In the afternoon of June 8, 1893, Mrs. Haynes directed the
boy to take a bundle to Mrs. Checotah's, who lived two or
three miles away. The boy caught a horse, got on it without a saddle, took the bundle that Mrs. Haynes gave him,
and went off on his errand. Mrs. Haynes testified that he
had no arms of any kind when he left her house, and that
he appeared in a good humor with everybody at that time.
The road to Checotah's ran by a field where the deceased,
his father and brother were working, ploughing corn. There
was testimony, on the part of Thompson, tending to show
that, as he. rode along past the field, the old man and the
deceased began quarrelling with him; that Thompson saw
that they were angry with him, but could not understand
much that was said to him, although he could tell that they
were talking about hogs. Thompson says that he remembered the threats against him they had made to Haynes and
Ohecotab, and thought they were going to hurt him. He
further states that he rode on to Checotah's, where he left
the bundle; that he got to thinking about what Sam Haynes
had told him as to the threats that Hermes had made, and as
there was no other road for him to return home by, except
the one alongside of the field, he thought it was best for him
to arm himself so that he could make a defence in case he
was attacked; that he went. by mos Gray's house, and there
armed himself with a Winchester rifle belonging to Gray.
The defendant further testified that, after he got the gun, he
went back by the road, and, as he got opposite where the
men were ploughing the boys were near the fence, and the old
man was behind; that the boys called at him and said something about a gun, and the deceased started towards a gun
that was standing in the corner of the fence, an d that, thinking they intended to kill him, he drew his gun and fired at

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

the deceased, and then ran away on his horse, pursued by the
old man, who afterwards shot at him. These particulars of
the transaction were principally testified to by Thompson
himself, but he was corroborated, to some extent, by William
Baxter and James Gregory, who testified that they visited
the field where was the body of the deceased, and that
Hermes, the father, described the affair to them, and, as so
told, the facts differed but little from Thompson's version.
In this state of facts, or, at all events, with evidence tending to show such, the court instructed the jury at great
length in respect to the law of the case. Exception was
taken to the charge of the court as a whole, because it was
"prolix, confusing, abstract, argumentative, and misleading,"
and this exception is the subject of one of the assignments of
error. But we do not need to consider this aspect of the
case, as the record discloses errors in vital portions of the
charge, and specifically excepted to, which constrain us to
reverse the judgment, and direct a new trial.
In instructing the jury as to the right of self-defence, the
learned judge said: "It is for you to say whether at the time
of the killing of Charles Hermes by this defendant that this
defendant was doing what he had a right to do. If he was
not, notwithstanding Charles Hermes might have made a
violent demonstration that was then and there imminent,
then and there impending, then and there hanging over his
head, and that he could not avoid it except by killing him;
if his conduct wrongfully, illegally, and improperly brought
into existence that condition, then he was not in an attitude
where, in the language of the law, he was in the lawful pursuit of 'his business." And again: "INow, in this connection,
we have a maxim of the law which says to us that riotwithstanding the deceased at the time of the killing may be doing
that which indicates an actual, real, and deadly design, if he
by his action who seeks to invoke the right of self-defence
brought into existence that act upon the part of the deceased
at that time by his wrongful act, his wrongful action did it,
he is cut off from the law of self-defence, no matter what may
have been the conduct of the deceased at that time."

THOMPSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

It is not easy to understand what the learned judge meant
by those portions of these instructions, in which he leaves it to
the jury to say whether the defendant was "doing what he
had a right to do," and whether the defendant brought into
existence the act of the deceased, in threatening to attack the
defendant, "by his, defendant's, wrongful act." Probably
what was here adverted to was the conduct of the deceased in
returning home by the same route in which he had passed the
accused when going to Checotah's, and the implication seems
to be that the accused was doing wrong and was guilty of a
wrongful act in so doing. The only evidence on that subject
was that of the defendant himself, that he had no other mode
of returning home except by that road, because of swamps on
the other side of the road, and there was no evidence to the
contrary.
The learned judge, in these and subsequent instructions,
seems to confuse the conduct of the defendant in returning
home by the only convenient road, with a supposed return to
the scene of -a previous quarrel for the purpose of renewing it.
Thug, he further instructed the jury that "if it be true that
Charles Hermes, at the time of the killing, was actually and
really, or apparently, in the act or executing a deadly design,
or so near in the execution of it that the defendant could not
avoid it, and that it was brought into existence by his going
to that place where Charles Hermes was, with the purpose of
provoking a difficulty, or with the intention of having an
affray, he is cut off from the law of self-defence." And
again: "You are to look to the evidence to see whether the
defendant brought thdt state of case into existence, to see
whether or not in consequence of a conception on his part of
a state of grudge, or ill-will, or any hard feelings that existed
between the parties, that he went off and armed himself for
the purpose of making an attack on Hermes, or any of the
party whom the government offered as witnesses, this law of
self-defence cannot avail him. Of course,, the law of selfdefence gives him the right to.arm himself for the purpose of
defending himself so long as he is in the right, but if he has a
conception that deadly danger may come upon him, but he is

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

away from it so he can avoid it, his duty is to stay away from
it and avoid it, because he has no right to go to the place
where the slain person is, with a deadly weapon for the purpose of provoking a difficulty, or with the intent of having an
affray."
These instructions could, and naturally would, be understood by the jury as directing them that the accused lost his
right of self-defence by returning home by the road that
passed by the place where the accused was, and that they
should find that the fact that he had armed himself and
returned by that road was evidence from which they should
infer that he had gone off and armed himself and returned
for the purpose of provoking a difficulty. Certainly the mere
fact that the accused used the same road in returning that he
had used in going from home would not warrant the inference
that his return was with the purpose of provoking an affray,
particularly as there was evidence that this road was the
proper, and convenient one. Nor did the fact that the defendant, in view of the threats that had been made against him,
armed himself, justify the jury in inferring that this was
with the purpose of attacking the deceased and not of defending himself, especially in view of the testimony that the purpose of the defendant in arming himself was for self-defence.
We had occasion to correct a similar error in the recent
case of Gourko v. United States, 153 U. S. 183. That was a
case where the deceased had previously uttered threats against
the defendant, and there had been a recent rencontre at the
post office. The parties then separated, and the defendant
armed himself, and subsequently, when the parties again encountered each other, the defendant shot and killed the
deceased. The court instructed the jury that, in those circumstances, there was no right of self-defence, and that there
was nothing to reduce the offence from that of murder to
manslaughter.
In discussing the question this court, by -Mr. Justice Harlan,
said:
"Assuming, for the purposes of the present inquiry, that
the defendant was not entitled to an acquittal as having acted

THOMPSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

in self-defence, the vital question was as to the effect to be
given to the fact that he armed himself with a deadly weapon
after the angry meeting with Garbo in the vicinity of the post
office. If he armed himself for the purpose of pursuing his
adversary, or with the intention of putting himself in the way
of his adversary, so as to obtain an opportunity to kill him,
then he was guilty of murder. But, if in view of what had
occurred near the post office, the defendant had reasonable
grounds to believe, and in fact believed, that the deceased
intended to take his life, or to inflict upon him great bodily
harm, and so believing armed himself solely for necessary
self-defence in the event of his being pursued and attacked,
and if the circumstances on the occasion of the meeting at or
near the saloon were such as, by themselves, made a case of
manslaughter, then the defendant arming himself, after the
difficulty near the post office, did not, in itself, have the effect
to convert his crime into that of murder.
"Stated in another form: Although the defendant may not
have been justified on the occasion and in the particular circumstances of the difficulty at the billiard saloon in believing
that the taking of his adversary's life was, then and there,
necessary to save his own life or to protect himself from serious bodily harm, nevertheless the jury were not authorized to
find him guilty of murder because of his having deliberately
armed himself, provided he rightfully armed himself for purposes simply of self-defence, and if, independently of the fact
of arming himself, the case, tested by what occurred on the
occasion of the killing, was one of manslaughter only. The
court, in effect, said, or the jury may not unreasonably have
understood the judge as declaring, that preparation by arming, although for self-defence only, could not be followed, in
any case, by m. aslaughter, if the killing, after such arming,
was not in fact in necessary self-defence. Such we understand to be the meaning of the charge. In our opinion the
court erred in so'-charging the jury. -Ifthe accused was
justified. in the eye of the law in arming himself for selfdefence, and if, without seeking, but on meeting his adversary,
on a subsequent occasion, he killed him, not n necessary self-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894,
Opinion of the Court.

defence, then his crime was that of manslaughter or murder,
as the circumstances, on the occasion of the killing, made it
the one or the other. If guilty of manslaughter looking
alone at those circumstances, he could not be found guilty of
murder by reason of his having previously armed himself
solely for self-defence."
We think there was also error in that portion of the charge
wherein the court instructed the jury as to the effect which
they should give to the evidence on the subject of previous
threats, uttered against the defendant by Hermes and his
sons. The learned judge seems to have regarded such evidence not merely as not extenuating or excusing the act of
the defendant, but as evidence from which the jury might
infer 9pecial spite, special ill-will, on the part of the defendant.
The language of the learned judge was as follows:
"Previous threats fill a certain place in every case where
they are brought out.in the evidence. If, at the time of the killing, the party is doing nothing which indicates a deadly design,
or a design to do a great bodily mischief- if he is doing
nothing, I say, of that kind -then previous threats cannot be
considered by the jury. If they are satisfied from the law and
the testimony that the deceased was not doing anything that
amounted to a deadly attack, or there is no question in their
minds as to what the attitude of the deceased was, previous
threats cannot be considered by them; they cannot enter into
their consideration of the case by the way of justifying any act
that resulted in the death of Charles Hermes from the act of
defendant; they cannot be considered, I say, because you
cannot kill a man because of previous threats. You cannot
weigh in the balance a human life against.a threat. There is
no right of that kind in law. Threats are only admitted as
illustrative of another condition that exists in the case. If
the party, at the time of killing, who is killed, is .doing that
which indicates a purpose to do great bodily harm, to kill,
or is about to do it, so nea doing it, and goes so far that it
can be seen from the nature of the act what his purpose is,
then for the purpose of enabling you to more clearly see the
situation of the parties you can take into consideration the

THOMPSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

threats made by him. But if there is an absence in the case
of that which indicates a deadly design, a design to do great
bodily harm, really or apparently, threats cannot be considered
in connection with the asserted right of a defendant that he
can avail hinself.of the right of self-defence. You cannot do
that. But if threats are made, and there is an absence from
the case of the conditions I have given you where you can use
them as evidence, you can only use them and consider them for
the purpose of showing the existence of Upecial spite or ill-will
or animosity on the part of the defendant."
And again:
"If this defendaftt killed this party, Charles Hermes, because
the old man, the father of Charles Hermes,- had threatened
him with violence, or threatened to have something done to
him because of his belief that he had done something with his
hogs or killed them and made threats, that is no defence, that
is no mitigation, but that is evidence, of malice aforethought;
it is evidence of premeditation; It is evidence of deliberation
of a deliberately formed design to kill, because of special.spite,
because of a grudge, because. of ill-will, because of animosity
that existed upon the part of this defendant towards these
people in the field."
While it is no doubt true that previous threats will not, in
all circumstances, justify or, perhaps, even extenuate the act
of the party threatened in killing the person who uttered the
threats, yet it by no means follows that such threats, signifying ill-will and hostility on the part of the deceased, can be
used by the jury as indicating a similar state of feeling on the
part of the defendant. Such an instruction was not only misleading in itself, but it was erroneous in the present case, for
the further reason that it omitted all reference to the alleged
conduct of the deceased at the time of the killing, which went
to show an intention then and there to carry out the previous
threats.
The instructions which have thus far been the subject of
our criticism were mainly applicable to the contention that
the defendant acted in self-defence, but they also must have
been understood by the jury as extending to the other proposi-

OCTOBER TERIM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

tion that the defendant's act constituted the crime of manslaughter and not of murder. The charge shows that the
instructions of the learned judge, on these two distinct defences, were so blended as to warrant the jury in believing that
such instructions were applicable to both grounds of defence.
Whether this be a just view or not, there were distinct
instructions given as to the contention that the act of killing
in this case was manslaughter and not murder, which we think
cannot be sustained. A portion of such instructions was as
follows:
"Now I have been requested to charge you upon the subject of manslaughter. Manslaughter is defined by the law of
the United States to be the wrongful killing of a human being, done wilfully, and in the absence of malice aforethought.
There must be out of the case that which shows the existence
or this distinguishing trait of murder, to find the existence of
a state of case that authorizes a mitigation of the offence from
murder to manslaughter. It is an unlawful and wilful killing,
but a killing in such a way as that the conduct of the deceased
Hermes, in this case, at the time he was killed, was not of a
character to authorize him to shoot, but that the defendant
could so far have the benefit of that conduct provocative in its
nature as that he could ask you to mitigate his crime, if crime
exists here, from murder to manslaughter. Let us see what is
meant by that. It cannot grow out of any base conception of
fear. It cannot grow out of a state of case where there is a
killing because of threats previously made, because of that
which evidences special spite or ill-will, for if the killing is
done on that ground, and if it is shown by the threats, and
the previous preparation of the defendant, or the fact of his
arming himself, and going back to the field where they were
at work, and while there he shot Charles Hermes to death, it
cannot be evidence of that condition; but at the time of the
killing there must have been that in the conduct of Charles
Hermes in the shape of acts done by him that were so far provocative as to then and there inflame the mind of the deceased
[defendant] to authorize you to say that it was so inflamed;
in such an inflamed condition that the defendant did not act

CONSTRIUCTION CO. v. CANE CREEK.
Statement of the Case.

with premeditation; that he did not act from a previously
formed design to kill, but that the purpose to kill prang into
existence upon the impulse of the moment because of the
provocative conduct of Charles Hermes at the time of the
killing, that would be a state of manslaughter. ....
The law says that the previous selection, preparation, and
subsequent use of a deadly weapon shows that there was a
purpose to kill contemplated before that affray existed, and
whenever that exists, when it is done unlawfully and improperly so that there is no law of self-defence in it, the fact that
they may have been in an actual affray with hands or fists would
not reduce the grade of the crime to manslaughter."
The error here is in the assumption that the act of the
defendant in arming himself showed a purpose to kill formed
before the actual affray. This was the same error that we
found in the instructions regarding the right of self-defence,
and brings the case within the case of Gourko v. United
States, previously cited, and the language of which we need
not repeat.
These views call for a reversal of the judgment, and it is
therefore unnecessary to consider the assignments that allege
errors in the selection of the jury.
The judgment is reversed,and tAe cause remandedfor a new
trial.

MASSACHUSETTS AND SOUTHERN CONSTRUCTION COMPANY v. CANE CREEK TOWNSHIP.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

STATES

FOR

No. 112. Submitted November 20, 1894.- Decided December 8, 1894.

Where the object of an action or suit. is to recover the possession of real oi
personal property, the one in possession is a necessary and indispensable,
and not a formal, party.

Tnis was a suit commenced by the appellant, a citizen of
the State of Massachusetts-, in the Circuit Court of the United

