OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

defendant, being a citizen of the same State with the plaintiff,
there was no right of removal on the part of Montague, or
of the intervening defendant, the Oswego township, on the
ground that the Union Savings Association was a formal,
unnecessary, or nominal party."
Further comment is not required. The decree of the Circuit Court must be
Reversed, and the case Temanded, with instructions to sustain theplea, and to dismiss the billfor want of juridiction.

DEERING v. WINONA HARVESTER WORKS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
No. 54. Argued November 5, 6, 1894. -Decided

STATES FOR

December 5, 1894.

The first claim in letters patent No. 223,812, issued January 27, 1880, to
William F. Olin for an improvement in harvesters, describing a swinging elevator, iocated upon the grain, (or ascending,) side of the main belt,
pivoted at its lower end and movable at its upper end, is not infringed
by a similar device, located upon the stubble side, pivoted at its upper
end, and swinging at its lower end.
When an inventor, who may be entitled to a broader claim than he makes,
describes and claims only a part of his invention, he is presumed to have
abandoned the residue to the public.
Oral testimony, unsupported by patents or exhibits, tending to show prior
use of a patented device is open to grave suspicion.
Unsuccessful and abandoned experiments do not affect the validity of a
subsequent patent.
The 20th claim in letters patent No. 272,598, issued February 20, 1883, to
John F. Steward for an improvement in grain binders is valid, and was
infringed by the appellees.
The 21st claim in those letters patent was not infringed by the appellees.

THIS was a bill in equity for the infringement of letters
patent No. 223,812, issued January 27, 1880, to William F.
Olin, for an improvement in harvesters, and patent No.
272,598, issued February 20, 1883, to John F. Steward, for an
improvement in grain binders. The original bill was founded
upon five different patents, but appellant acquiesced in the

DEERING v. WINONA HARVESTER WORKS.

287

Statement of the Case.

decree of the Circuit Court dismissing his, bill as to all but
the two patents above named.
In the patent to Olin for an improvement in harvesting
machines, the patentee stated in his specification as follows:
"In that class of harvesting machines where the grain is
received upon a carrier-platform and elevated over the drivewheel by an elevator and deliverer to the binders or an automatic binder, it is desirable that there shall be no stoppage in
the flow of the grain in its passage to its place of delivery;
that the butts of the grain shall be carried up parallel, or
nearly so, with the heads of the grain, so as to deliver the
grain in proper shape for binding purposes, and that the grain
shall be delivered to the receiving-table so that it can be bound
at or near the middle.
"The object of this invention is to provide devices for attaining all of these results; and it consists in interposing a
roller between the lower end of the elevator and the inner end
of the grain-carrier, to facilitate elevating the grain and prevent clogging at that point, and prevent the grain from being
carried down or falling through between the elevator and
carrier; in providing a belt or chain at the grain side of the
machine for elevating the butts of the grain, supported on a
swinging bar, so that it can be adjusted, according to the
length of grain being elevated, to deliver the grain so that it
can be bound at the middle; in devices for operating and
adjusting the elevator for the butts; in the peculiar construction of the cover; in arranging and operating the belt for
the butts so that it prevents any clogging by short grain at
the heel of the sickle; in arranging the device for' elevating the
butts so that it will bear.against the butts of the grain and
crowd or move the grain back on the elevator toward the
centre, for the purpose of straightening the grain in its passage up the elevator, and delivering it so that it can be clasped
or bound near the middle, to facilitate the ease of binding;
and in the several parts and combination of parts hereinafter
described as new." Here follows at great length a descripz
tion of the device claimed to be novel.
The specification concludes as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

"The butts of grain are heavier than the heads, and consequently lag behind unless some means are provided to make
them move faster than the heads. In order to elevate the
butts even with the heads the belt or elevator Q is so arranged
that the teeth b will engage with the butts of the grain on
the roller I and carry them up while the heads are being carried up by the elevator-belts MT. The lower pulley, c, is to be
so arranged that it will permit the teeth b on the elevator Q
to clear the end of the roller and engage the butts, and this
pulley o is located as close to the main frame as is possible
and permit the operation of the butt-elevator, which location
of the pulley brings, the butt-elevator in position to enable it
to catch any short grain, which short grain is liable to fall
down and be caught by the heel of the sickle and clog the
sickle. By locating the lower pulley, c, of the belt Q at
the proper distance above the main frame A the teeth b on
the elevator will come in contact with such short grain and
force it forward on to the carrier-platform, thus keeping the
heel of the sickle clear at this point."
The following drawing exhibits the "swinging elevator"
feature of the patent:

DEERING v..'WINO§NA HARVESTER WORKS.

289

Statement of the Case.

The plaintiff claimed an infringement of the first claim of
the patent, which reads as follows:
"1. In combination with a harvester elevator a swinging
elevator pivoted at it- lower end and suitable devices for
shifting its upper end, whereby the swinging elevator forms a
means for elevating the-butts of the grain and delivering grain
of different lengths at the same point, substantially as specified."
In the patent to Steward for improvements in grain binders
the patentee stated "The object of my invention is to provide means, that, combined with an automatic grain binder, shall make it automatically regulate the position of the band on the gavel- that is,
shall automatically place the band upon the gavel in its
proper position relative to the length of the grain without
any aid or attention from the operator -and its nature consists in locating, in such a position as to be influenced by the
heads of the incoming grain, or gavel or bundle, a device to
be moved thereby, the said device connected with means for
adjusting the relative positions of the said grain and the
binding mechanism."
The following drawing exhibits the patented device:
r, e

VOL. CLV-19

d

.,ep

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiff claimed an infringement of the twentieth and
twenty-first claims of the Steward patent, which read as
follows:
"20. The combination, in a grain-binder, of moving buttadjusting mechanism and the board d', substantially as described.
"21. The combination of the swinging butt-adjuster, the
arms

d2,

d3, d4, and the board d1, pivoted to the swinging butt-

adjuster, substantially as described."
Upon a hearing upon pleadings and proofs, the court below
dismissed the bill upon the ground that the Olin patent was
not infringed, and that the Steward patent was invalid by
reason of a certain device theretofore used, which was held
to have anticipated the patent. From this decree plaintiff
appealed to this court. The opinion of the Circuit Court is
reported in 40 Fed. iRep. 236.
.Mr. Thomas A. Banning for appellant.
.Mr. Philip C. Dyrenforth for appellees.

Am:.

JusTlcE BRoWN, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
1. The Olin patent relates to a harvesting machine, and
more particularly to a certain m*ethod of elevating the grain
from the harvester platform, upon which it falls as it is cut,
to the top of the delivery apron, where it is discharged- from
the machine either into the hands of a binder, or into a
mechanical grain binder, as the case may be.
In machines of this description the grain, as it is cut, falls
upon a platform, and is carried to the base of. an endless belt
provided with teeth, which seize the grain and carry it over
the driving wheel of the harvester, ftp to a higher level
than that where the binding is done, from which point it falls
a short distance to reach the binder. The side of the elevator
upon which the grain ascends is termed the grain side; the
side upon which it descends to the binder is called the stubble
side. In the operation -f a harvester of this kind it was ob-

DEERING v. WINONA HARVESTER WORKS.

291

Opinion of the Court.

served that, as the grain mounted the elevator on the grain
side, the butt end of the stalks, being heavier than the heads,
exhibited a tendency to lag behind, so that the stalks assumed
a diagonal position across the harvester platform. The consequence of this was that the heads of the stalks were delivered
to the binder in advance of the butts, and obliquely - a peciliarity which interfered with the proper binding of the grain.
In addition to this, the different lengths of the stalks required
some means whereby the binding band might be placed centrally to their lengths, that is, if the stalks, after being cut,
are twelve inches long, the band should be placed about six
inches from each end, but if the stalks are five feet -long, it
should-be placed about two and a half feet from each end.
To obviate the difficulty of the butts lagging behind, and
also to secure proper delivery of the grain as to length, Olin
invented an auxiliary belt located at a right angle to the
main belt, but moving in the same direction and at somewhat
greater speed. This auxiliary belt was also provided with
teeth, which engaged the butt end of the stalks, and, moving
faster than the main belt, kept the butts up to a level with
the heads. As shown and described in the patent, this auxiliary belt was arranged with one end located at the lower end of
the main belt and near the carrier platform, and the other end
at the apex of the main belt or the highest point at which the
grain ascends. The mechanism wag intended to act upon
the swath of flowing grain, and change its direction, pushing
the stalks endwise, so that they might be delivered to the
binder in proper position to be .bound in their centre, and
also hastening their butts so that the stalks might not be
delivered diagonally, but parallel with each other and with
the flow of the main belt. The claim describes this swinging
elevator as pivoted at its lower end, with suitable devices for
shifting its upper end, whereby it forms a means for elevating
the butts of the grain, and deliveringgrain of different lengths
at the same point.
Devices bearing certain similarity to this, and having in
view the performance of a like function, were not wholly
unknown to the prior art. These devices, though not claimed

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

to fully anticipate the Olin patent, are important in their bearing upon the construction of this patent and upon the alleged
infringement by the defendants.
Thus the patent to Elward of July 6, 1875, exhibits two
rollers mounted in front of the horizontal belt. These rollers
carry a short belt or apron, whose face, like that of the Olin
patent, is perpendicular to the face of the horizontal belt. It
is stated in the patent that one of these rollers may be driven
by proper gearing, and it is so represented in the model.
The face of this small belt moves in the same direction as the
horizontal belt, and is set at an angle with the line of direction
or travel of the grain. The specifications state that this belt
or apron "may be operated either by the friction of the passing butts of the grain, or it may be given a positive movement
by gears or belts and pulleys from any convenient driving
shaft, the movement of the apron in either case serving to
move or shove backwards the butts of the grain projecting
over the finger-bar." This auxiliary belt of Elward's acts
much in the same way in relation to grain moved by and on
the horizontal apron that the auxiliary belt of Olin does upon
grain carried upward by the main horizontal belt, shoving the
grain endwise toward the rear of the machine while it is being
carried along. No method is stated, however, by which the
canvas may be rotated, and even if it were, it would still be
incompetent to perform the office of the Olin belt, because it
is not adjustable at either end.
The patent to George F. Green of Mvarch 6, 1877, also
shows an adjustable butter, which he designates as a grain
guide, pivoted at the lower front corner of the elevator frame,
on the grain side, and provided at its upper end with a handle
convenient to the driver sitting in his seat. This so-called
grain guide is much like that of Olin's in shape and location,
though apparently not provided with a movable belt, and
hence not adapted to hasten the ascent of the butts, but only
to shove back the butts of the shorter stalks. Instead of
operating to hasten the butts, it can only operate to retard
them to the extent of the friction between the butts and the
surface of the board.

DEERING v. WINONA HARVESTER WORKS.

293

Opinion of the Court.

The patent to 0. W. and W. W. Marsh of January 5, 1864,
shows alongside of the main belt, an auxiliary belt, mounted
on the same rollers as the main belt, and therefore proceeding
at the same speed. The horizontal belt carrying the grain over
the harvester platform is described as travelling faster than the
main elevator, so as to operate to straighten the grain, or bring
the stalks parallel to each other before beginning their ascent.
The auxiliary belt, however, is not arranged on vertical rollers as in the Olin patent, but upon the same rollers as those
carrying the main belt; neither is it pivoted at its lower end,
nor capable of being shifted at its upper end, and hence is
incapable of moving the grain endwise to even the butts.
There are two or three other patents, which appear to have a
somewhat remoter bearing upon the Olin patent, but are not
necessary to be noticed in the consideration of this case.
The gist of Olin's invention seems to be in his taking the
grain guide used by Green, providing it with a belt and teeth
somewhat upon the principle of the independent belt or bands
used by the Marshes, travelling faster than the main belt, and
for the purpose of keeping the butts in line with the heads of
the stalks. The important feature, however, connected with
all these prior patents is found in the fact that the devices
described in them were all located on the grain side of the
elevator, and were designed to secure parallelism in the stalks,
as they mounted the main belt, and before they reached its
apex. Olin proceeded upon the- same theory, and located his
swinging elevator or auxiliary belt upon the same side 1of the
main elevator, and described it in his claim as pivoted at its
lower end, with suitable devices'for shifting its upper end.
In defendants' device, the grain is carried up upon the main
belt or elevator, as in the Olin patent, without, however, any
means whatever for hastening the butts or moving the stalks
endwise upon the harvester elevator; but, after having been
lifted or carried over the apex of the main belt, and while
descending upon the stubble side to the binder, they are
adjusted in position by a travelling belt or apron almost identical in principle with that of the Olin patent, but pivoted at
.its pper end and swinging at its lower end. This device is-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

shown in a patent to Bullock & Appleby of October 31, 1882,
in which the prior use of the plain face deflector board or
surface was recognized, but was said not to be a sufficient
means for effecting the desired adjustment of the grain stalks
endwise. "The butt ends of the stream of grain will lag by
contact with the stationary surface of such a designed deflector or adjuster, and the grain will not be properly guided
to the binder or the point at which the binding is to be done."
Their invention consists, as they state, essentially in the employment of an adjuster and deflector composed of a travelling
surface, mounted in an adjustable frame, and provided with
suitable means for operating it, by which the cut grain, while
passing from the delivery end of the conveyer to the binder,
shall be perfectly adjusted lengthwise of its stalks and to an
extent corresponding to the length of the grain, so as to effect
a presentation of the grain always in a given relative position
to the binder devices of the machine and in proper condition
for binding.
The third and most important claim of that patent was for
"an endless belt moving in the direction of the grain delivery
and operating in contact with the stubble end of the grain
on its passage from the elevator to deliver it to a binding
mechanism, substantially as set forth."
The real question in this case as between these two devices
is, whether the first claim of the Olin patent describing a
swinging elevator located upon the grain or ascending side
of the main belt, pivoted at its lower end and movable at its
,uperend, can be construed to cover a similar device 'located
upon the stubble side, pivoted at its upper end and swinging
at its lower end. We are of opinion that it cannot. Plaintiff
claims in this connection that, by the lower end of the swinging elevator is in reality meant the receiving end, and that, as
the defendants' device (which can hardly be called an elevator
at all, since it facilitates the descent of the grain) is pivoted at
its receiving end, which happens to be its upper end, it is
within the spirit though not within the letter of the claim.
But of whatever elasticity of construction this claim might
have been susceptible, if it had been a pioneer patent, it is

DEERING v. WINONA HARVESTER WORKS.

295

Opinion of the Court.

clear that, in view of the prior devices, of which it was only
an improvement, and of the explicit language of the specification and claims, the patentee had only in view an auxiliary
belt located upon the grain or ascending side of the elevator.
Indeed, from the statement in the introduction of the specification through all the description and in each of the claims,
care is taken to emphasize the fact that the invention relates
to the combination, with the ordinary harvester elevator, of a
butt elevator which operates upon the butts of the grain while
the grain is being lifted upon the main belt, so as to hasten
the ascent of the butts, and move the stalks back upon the
harvester elevator. In no one of the six claims of the patent
is there a suggestion that the elevator or belt Q could be
located upon the stubble side, although this belt is made an
element in all but one of the claims.
If Olin had been the first to devise a contrivance of this
description for adjusting the flow of grain upon the main elevator, it is possible that, under the cases of Ives v. Hamilton,
92 U. S. 426, and H/oyt v. Horne, 145 U: S. 302, a construction
broad enough to include defendants' device might have been
sustained. But in view, not only of the prior devices, but of
the fact that his invention was of doubtful utility and never
went into practical use, the construction claimed would operate
rather to the discouragement than the promotion of inventive
talent. Not only does it appear that the device described in
this patent did not go into general use, but that the mechanism set forth in the patent to Bullock & Appleby of October
31, 1882, under which the defendants manufactured their
machines, was extensively sold throughout the country for
about eight years before any assertion of adverse right under
the Olift patent, and that the plaintiff himself became a
licensee under the Appleby patent, and manufactured his own
machines in accordance therewith.
Another fact is deserving of consideration. While the application for the Olin patent was pending, another application
was made by McGregor & Flennekin, showing a grain adjusting device similar to that used by the defendants; that is, a
butt-adjuster like that of Olin's, but locamted upon the descend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

ing line of grain travel, and pivoted at its upper end instead
of its lower end. This application was thrown into interference with that of Olin- the examiner holding the subjpctmatter involved in the interference to be "an endless belt
moving in the direction of the grain delivery, operating in
contact with the end of the grain to deliver it to a binding
mechanism." This interference seems to have been decided
in Olin's favor, since a patent was subsequently issued to him;
but inasmuch as he thus was warned of the claim of McGregor
& Flennekin, and of its extent, it is somewhat singular that he
did not at least endeavor to obtain an enlargement of his claim,
to cover an endless belt moving in the direction of the delivery,
whether such belt were located upon the grain or stubble side
of the elevator, and thus anticipate McGregor & Flennekin.
His failure to make an effort in that direction indicates a consciousness on his part that he had limited himself to an endless
belt upon the grain side, and the fact that the McGregor &
Flennekin patent was subsequently issued, with the broad
claim of the endless belt moving in the direction of the grain
delivery, indicates that, notwithstanding the interference, it
was not considered as anticipated by the Olin patent previously
granted. In the meantime, and during the pendency of the
Olin application, Bullock & Appleby applied for a patent upon
the combination of the travelling apron with the table of the
grain binder, as used by these defendants, and a patent was
issued to them October 31, 1882'. If Olin were entitled to all
that plaintiff now claims, it would seem that the patent to
McGregor & Flennekin, as well as that to Bullock & Appleby,
are infringements upon his own. It is possible that Olin was
entitled to a broader claim than that to which he limited himself ; but if he described and claimed only a part of his invention, he is presumed to have abandoned the residue to the
public. .McClain v. Ortmayer, 141 U. S. 419. There was no
error in holding that the Olin patent had not been infringed.
2. There are twenty-one claims in the Steward patent, the
last two of which only are involved in this controversy. These
claims are as follows:
"20. The combination, in a grain binder, of moving butt

DEERING v. WINONA HARVESTER WORKS.

297

Opinion of the Court.

adjusting mechanism, and the board d', substantially as
described.
"21. The combination of the swinging butt-adjuster, the
arms d 2, d3, and d 4, and the board d', pivoted to the swinging
butt-adjuster, substantially as described."
The peculiar feature of this portion of the patent is in the
-attachment to a butt-adjuster, such as is. described in the
Bullock & Appleby patent-that is, upon the stubble side
of the elevatorof a board pivoted to the end of the movable
butt-adjuster to bear against the butts of the sheaf of grain,
after it passes the butt-adjuster proper, and while it is being
acted upon by the binding mechanism. This board d' is
described, in the patent as "a thin board or plate of metal,
as wide as the adjusting canvas, and pivoted to the frame of
the latter at its lower extremity. From this board reaches
upward and inward an arm d2. The board and frame are as
one piece; but the board itself is made in two parts, so that
its greater portion (which is the lower) can be removed."
As the grain advances into the binding receptacle, the board
bears against the butts, and holds them in an even condition,
and in such a position as to insure the central binding of the
bundle. 'In practice two forms of this extension of the buttadjuster have been used; one consisting of a board or sheetiron plate rigidly secured to the butt-adjuster at its lower
end, and the other consisting of such a board or plate 2 ivotally connected to the butt-adjuster at its lower end, and connected to the binder in such a way as to cause it to remain
"parallel with itself" in the various positions which it assumes. In other words, when the pivotal form of extensio*n
is used the connections are such that, while the angle of the
butt-adjuster with the top of the binder changes, the angle
of the extension and the same board remains constant, or
nearly so. Defendants' machine is provided with a moving
butt-adjusting mechanism, and also with a .board pivoted to
the lower end of the butt-adjuster, practically identical in its
construction and operation with that of the ,Steward patent.
The defences to these claims are:
I. That claim 20 is void, in that it describes an incomplete

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

and inoperative invention, and if completed by reading into it
the necessary specifications, the defendants do not infringe.
2. That claim 21 is not infringed by defendants' machine.
3. That both claims are void, because Steward was not the
first inventor, and because substantially the same device as
shown and described -inthe patent and referred to in the
claims Was in public use in the TTited States for more than
two years before the application was filed.
As the last defence goes to both of these claims, it may
properly be considered first.
The English patent to Howard & Bousfield of 1881 may be
left out of consideration, because, although it antedates the
Steward patent, Steward appears to have completed his invention and made a working model before the date of the English
patent His oath was accepted by the Patent Office as decisive of the fact, and a patent was issued to him upo)n it, and
the model, which was put in evidence, was shown to have
been completed as early as February, 1881.
The court below found, however, that the device in question was invented and publicly used by one Gottlieb Heller
on his farm in Kansas in the harvest of 1877-78. The importance and peculiar character of the testimony upon this point
will justify a somewhat extended analysis and consideration
of it. Heller is a Kansas farmer, who also appears to have
been for some years agent. for the Beloit-later the Milwaukee Harvester Company. He testified that in 1878 he
bought from an agent of the Beloit Company a combined
harvester and binder, which had a travelling- butt-adjuster
precisely as it appears in the Bullock & Appleby patent,
except that it had no construction corresponding to the board
d' of the 20th claim. He found that when the grain was
short and "thin it did not work well, so that he added an
extension to the butt-adjuster, to keep the straw of the
bundle even at the butts. This extension, as he explained it,
was first made with a piece of tin or sheet iron nailed on to
the frame of the butt-adjuster. This arrangement proved
unsatisfactory. He then says he made an extension out of
sheet iron and heavy hoop iron, which would adjust and keep

DEERING v. WINONA HARVESTER' WORKS.

299

Opinion of the Court.

straight with the butt of the bundle, and in that way it satisfied him. He illustrated this device by a rough sketch, containing much the same -elements as those described in claim
21 of the Steward patent. lie then produced what he claimed
to be the identical device which he made in 1878, and used
publicly in the harvest of that year. This device was put in
evidence. He says his wife and son helped him in the harvest
and drove the machine which was used to cut part of 250
acres. He also attempted to use the device the next year,
1879, but the grain was so short it proved unsatisfactory, and
he took it off and elevated the grain into a wagon. In .1880
he got a new binder, which the adjustable extension did not
fit, and for lack of time he put on a rigid one instead of an
adjustable one, though he preferred the latter. At various
times he put on rigid ones for other persons. The pivoted
butt-adjuster represented in his sketch and relied upon to
establish the prior use was thrown aside and lost sight of
for several years, Heller never applying for a patent nor taking any steps toward the introduction of the device.
One Rubin, a neighbor of Keller's, who sold him the harvester and binder he used in 1878, went to Keller's farm in
the harvest of that year to see how it worked, when Keller's
son called his attention to an improvement in the butt-adjuster
which he said his father had made; but he evidently did not
remember whether the board extension was rigidly or pivotally attached to the adjuster, though he thought it was screwed
upon the frame of the adjuster, stif.
George Heller, the son, testified that his father made an
extension, like the one introduced by him, for the harvest of
1878, and that the sheet-iron piece was from an old Kirby
self-rake. Ire seemed to have put it on as a rigid extension
at first, and, after using it a day or two, substituted an automatic extension, which he believes to have been the identical
device put in evidence. lie says his father afterwards put a
stiff one on the second binder they bought.
One Edward D. Bishop saw only the rigid extension, and
did not see the improved device. Rosina Heller, the wife,
testified that she ran the harvester and binder in the harvest

OCTOBER TER-M, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

of 1878. She testified generally to the use of the butt-adjuster,
with the adjustable extension, during the year 1878.
From the testimony in reply to this it appeared that the
butt-adjuster of tin or iron, said to have been first made in
1878, and which was put in evidence, bore no marks whatever
of nails having been driven into it; also, that the iron extension which Heller's son swore was from a piece of a Kirby
rake owned by them, and bought of a firm in Junction City,
could not have been taken from a Kirby self-rake, since that
pattern of rake did not contain any such sheet iron as the
extension was made of. It further appeared that the extension came from a machine called the Triumph, which Heller
never owned, but which belonged to another man -one
Schlesener, who lived some eight or ten miles distant. It further appeared that the extension was not applied until 1880,
and was then rigidly fastened by Heller and Schlesener to
the frame of the butt-adjuster, instead of being pivotally
attached as claimed by Heller. This machine was subsequently, and in 1882, bought by one Messing, whose son
-testified that at that time the extension was rigidly fastened
to the adjuster, and so remained until the spring of 1883,
when it passed out of his possession. It further appeared that
Heller was an agent for the Milwaukee Harvester Company,
which was making butt-adjusters with pivoted extensions,
was interested in defeating the Steward patent, and took an
active part in securing his testimony.
This entire evidence, taken in connection with certain
damaging admissions made by Heller as to the compensation
he received, both for his testimony in this case and for his
concealment of certain facts in relation to another patent,
.throws discredit upon the whole case made by the defendant
with respect to the anticipation of the Steward patent. Taking this evidence together, it falls far short of establishing an
anticipation with that certainty which the law requires. As
we have had occasion before to obseive, oral testimony, unsupported by patents or exhibits, tending to show prior use
of a device regularly patented is, in the nature of the case,
open to grave suspicion. The Barbed Wire Patent, 143 U. S.

DEERING v. 'WINONA HARVESTER WORKS.

301.

Opinion of the Court.

275.. Granting the witnesses to be of the highest character,
and never so conscientious in their desire to tell only the
truth, the possibility of their being mistaken as to the exact
device used, which, though bearing a general resemblance to
the one patented, may differ from it in the very particular
which makes it patentable, are such as to render oral testimony peculiarly untrustworthy; particularly so if the testimony be taken after the lapse of years from the time the
alleged anticipating device was used. If there be added to
this a personal bias, or an incentive to colqr the testimony in
the interest of the party calling the witness, to say nothing
of downright perjury, its value is, of course, still more seriously
impaired. This case is an apt illustration of the wisdom of
the rule requiring such anticipations to be proven by evidence
so cogent as to leave no reasonable doubt in the mind of the
court, that the transaction occurred substantially as stated.
The very exhibit produced by the witness Heller contradicted,
so far as it could contradict, his testimony, and the witnesses
who ought to have corroborated his story, gave a version
which showed it to be untrue in more than one important
particular.
Under the circumstances, it would be going too. far to reject his entire testimony, but giving it all the weight to which
it can reasonably be entitled, it shows no more than that he
affixed some sort .of an extension to a butt-adjuster connefted
with an Appleby machine. If, as he says, in 1878, he tried a
rigid extension and found it unserviceable, and subsequently,
in the same season, he invented a pivoted extension, and it
worked well, it is improbable that-he would have cast it aside
altogether at the end of the season, and taken up again the
theory of a rigid extension, and applied it not only to his own,
but to a number of other machines. His excuse that the
binder was incapable of doing satisfactory work during the
season of 1879, by reason of the shortness of the grain that
season, is evidence that it was inoperative. If it had been a
success, he would hardly have thrown it aside permanently.
Doubtless he did use a rigid extension of some sort; but if lie
ever used a pivoted device at all - of which we have consider-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

able doubt - his efforts in that direction must be relegated to
the class of unsuccessful and abandoned experiments, which,
as we have repeatedly held, do not affect the validity of a
subsequent patent. Corn PlanterPatent, 23 Wall. 181, 211;
Cofln v. Ogden, 18 Wall. 120, 124.
Defendants further insist that the twentieth claim of this
patent is invalid, by reason of the fact that, if the board d' be
construed, as it evidently must, as a board pivoted to the buttadjuster, the combination is incomplete and inoperative, because
the means by which it is held and controlled are not stated in
the claim; and if the additional elements, namely, the arms
d2, d, and d', be read into it, it becomes the same as the
twenty-first claim, and the novelty of the claim must be made
to depend upon the peculiarities of the board d'. Admitting
that additional elements are necessary to render the device
operative, it does not necessarily follow that the omission of
these elements invalidates the claim, or that the precise elements described in the patent as rendering it operative must
be read into the claim. If Steward were in fact the first to
invent the pivotal extension to a butt-adjuster, he is entitled
to a patent therefor, though the infringer may make use of
other means than those employed by him to operate it. Loom
Company v. iliggins, 105 U. S. 580, 584. In such case any appropriate means for making it operative will be understood.
Otherwise the infringer might take the most important part
of a new invention and, by changing the method of adapting
it to the machine to which it is an improvement, avoid the
charge of infringement. The invention of a needle with the
eye near the point is the basis of all the sewing machines
used; but the methods of operating such a needle are many,
and if Howe had been obliged to make his own method a
part of every claim in which the needle was an element, his
patent would have been practicallk worthless. We think it
sufficiently appears that Steward was the inventor of the
pivoted extension described in the twentieth claim; that the
claim is valid, and was infringed by the defendants.
We agree, however, that the defendants made use of a
different method of adjusting this extension, which is neither

INTERNATIONAL CONTRACTING CO. v. LAMONT.

303

Statement of the Case.

the same invented by Steward, nor a mechanical equivalent of
the same. We hold, therefore, that the twenty-first claim
was not infringed.
But for the reasons given above the decree of the court
below must be
Reversed, and the case remandedfor further proceedings in
conformity with this opinion.

UNITED STATES ex rel. THE INTERNATIONAL
CONTRACTING COMPANY v. LAMONT.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLU1TBIA.
No. 689. Argued and submitted October 28, 1894. -IDecided

December 10, 1894.

As mandamus will only lie to enforce a ministerial duty, as distinguished
from a duty that is merely discretionary, and as the duty must exist
at the time when the application is made, the Secretary-of War cannot
be required by mandamus to sign a contract for the performance of
work by a party who is already under written contract with him to perform the same work for the Government at a lower price and under
different conditions.

IN pursuance of an act of Congress making an appropriation
for that purpose, an advertisement appeared August 6, 1892,
inviting proposals for doing certain work in Gowanus Bay,
New York. The work was divided into three parts, as follows.: first for Bay Ridge Channel; second, for Red Hook
Channel; and third, for Gowanus Creek Channel. The advertisement, moreover, stated the sums of money which were
available for the work on each separate channel, and it was
announced that the work must be commenced on October 1,
1892, and be completed on or before December 31, 1893. In
answer to the advertisement, the relator bid upon the work.
His prgposition was to do it all at a uniform rate of 19.7 of a
cent per cubic yard, "sco w measurement," and with two dredge
boats, one of which would commence Work within ninety
days from the awarding of the contract, and the other within

