MARKET STREET RAILWAY CO. v. ROWLEY.

621

Statement of the Case.

In fine, we are all of the opinion that the statute of limitations was a good plea to this action, and the judgment of the
Circuit Court is, therefore,

Afrmed.

MARKET STREET

CABLE RAILWAY COMPANY
v. ROWLEY.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

FOR THE

No. 161. Submitted December 13, 1894.-Decided January 7,1895.
If, upon the state of the art as shown to exist by prior patents, and upon a
comparison of. older devices with the patent sued on in an action for
infringement, it appears that the patented claims are not novel, it becomes the duty of the court to so instruct the jury.
The claims in letters patent No. 9 65 ,7 5 4 , issued June 28, 1887, to Benjamin
W. Lyon and Reuben Munro for "improvements in automatic top-feed
lubricators for railroad car axle-box bearings," must be construed to
cover any lubricator composed of an oil cup, an outlet pipe connecting
the oil cup with the axle-box containing the axle and bearing, a plug or
stopper, which closes the pipe when the vehicle is at rest and opening it
when there is a jolting motion, and a gauge adapted to control and limit
the movement of the stopper, and to thus regulate the flow of the oil;
and, being so construed, the letters patent are void for want of novelty
in the invention covered by them.
A mere carrying forward of the original thought, a change only in form,
proportions, or degree, doing the same thing in the same way by substantially the same means, but with better results, is not such an invention
as will sustain a patent.

IN the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern
District of California, at the February term, of the year eighteen hundred and ninety-one, B. N. Rowley brought an action
at law against the Market Street Cable Railway Company, a
corporation under the laws of the State of California, wherein
he alleged that on the 28th day of June, 1887, Benjamin W.
Lyon and Reub6n Munro, as inventors of an improvement in
car-axle lubricators, obtained letters patent therefor, bearing
said date, and numbered as No. 365,754, and that subsequently,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

in 1890, said patentees assigned and transferred to the said
plaintiff all their right, title, and interest in and to the invention and the letters patent, in and within the State of California, together with all past accrued claims and demands thereunder in said State; that the defendant company had, since
the issuance of such letters patent, without the consent of the
plaintiff or that of his assignors, wrongfully and unlawfully
made and used, and were continuing to make and use. car
lubricators containing and embracing said invention.
The defendant appeared in said action and pleaded the general issue, and a further plea that said Lyon and Munro were
not the inventors of the device described in the letters
patent, nor was the said invention their joint invention, and
likewise a further plea that the defendant procured at all
times a license from the said patentees, authorizing their use
of said patented device, and likewise a further plea that many
of the car-axle lubricators complained of as infringing devices
were put upon the cars of the defendant company, and used
with the knowledge and consent of said Lyon and Munro
prior to their application for the said letters patent, and that
thereby the said defendant became possessed of the right to
use said car-axle lubricators so put and used upon its cars
prior to said application during the life of said patent.
The bill of exceptions discloses.that the plaintiff pub in evidence letters patent of the United States, No. 365,754, issued
on June 28, 1887, to Benjamin W. Lyon and Reuben Munro,
and a written assignment thereof, and of rights of action
thereunder to the plaintiff by Lyon and Munro dated November 26, 1890. The plaintiff put in evidence a model. representing the device sued on, and called witnesses to show the use
by the defendant on its lines of the said lubricator, and evidence bearing upon the measure of damages.
The bill of exceptions further shows that it was admitted
and understood by the parties on both sides that the cable
cars used by the defendant are constructed differently from
other street and railroad cars. in this: The cars, instead of
having an axle extending across near each end with its journal bearing in boxes, as ordinary horse and street cars are

MARKET STREET RAILWAY CO. v. ROWLEY.'

623

Statement of the Case..

carried, are supported and carried on two swivel trucks, one
near each end of the car, similar to a railway car. The
wheels which support these trucks are quite small in diameter,
in order to bring the body or floor of the car as near the
ground as possible; that the defendant was the first to construct and run cars built in that way, and that all the cable
cars used by the defendant are built in this way. It was also
understood that the only method of oiling the journals of defendant's cars in use before the invention of Lyon and Munro
was to make a chamber in the box around the journal and fill
it with cotton or other waste. The oil was then poured into
this chamber and allowed to run down through a hole which
connected the chamber with the journal bearing, and be delivered upon the journal. That method caused much trouble
and annoyance, because the oil would often run out before the
trip of the car was completed, and the car would finish its trip
with a hot journal, and would have to run into the enginehouse to have its journals cooled off. It was also admitted
that the defendant controls and operates five distinct -lines of
cable cars in its system, viz., the Valencia Street line, the McAllister Street line, the fl]aight Street line, the Hayes Valley
line, and the Castro Street line, each one being a distinct line,
but each running on Market Street a portion of its length, and
branching therefrom at different points; that the patentees,
Lyon and Munro, placed their oil cups on the cars of the
Hayes Valley line before the patent was applied for; also
that the specific oil cups placed upon the Hayes Valley line of
defendant's cars by the patentees before their application for
a patent had wooden bottoms, and that after being in use for
a few months the wooden bottoms were swelled by the absorption of oil -and burst. The bill of exceptions further discloses
that the plaintiff- called Lyon and Munro, by whose testimony
it appeared that they were in the employ of the defendant company at the time they made their invention and still were;
that the materials used, which were of small value, belonged
to the company; that the cups put on the Hayes Valley line.
were experimental, and at the time of the trial were no longer
in use, having burst by reason of having wooden bottoms; that

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

the defendant was using the patented device on its various lines
with the knowledge of the patentees; that the patentees had
never demanded or received from the defendant company any
compensation for the use of the patented device, either directly
or by way of increase in salary or additional privileges.
The bill of exceptions further discloses that the defendant
put in evidence Patent Office copies of several letters patent
for oil cups and lubricators prior in date to those granted to
Lyon and Munro.
After the testimony was closed the counsel for defendant
made a motion that the court direct the jury to return a verdict for the defendant on the ground that the patent sued on
was void for want of novelty. This motion was, after argument, overruled; and the defendant's counsel took an exception which the court allowed.
The defendant's counsel then requested the court to charge
the jury as follows: "If you believe from the evidence that
Benjamin W. Lyon and Reuben Munro were at the time they
made this invention in the employ of the defendant, and that
they constructed or acquiesced in the construction of the caraxle lubricators used by the defendant while in its employ, in
its time and at its expense, and that they put them or allowed
them to be put upon defendant's cars and allowed them to be
used, no compensation being made or demanded, then these
facts fully justify the presumption of, and of themselves constitute, an implied license to the defendant to use and to continue to use said car-axle lubricators, and you will return a
verdict for the defendant." This request the court refused.
And the defendant's counsel took an exception, before the
jury retired, to the court's refusal to give the instruction as
requested.
The jury found a verdict in favor of the plaintiff in the sum
of one hundred dollars, and on March 13, 1891, judgment was
entered for that sum and costs. To which judgment a writ
of error was sued out.
.Mr. Harvey S. Brown and Mr. William F. Booth for
plaintiff in error.

MARKET STREET RAILWAY CO. v. ROWLEY.

625

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. John E. -Millerand Mrb'. John LBoone
.
for defendant
in error.
MR.JUSTICE SHnMAS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

Did the court below err in refusing to instruct the jury to
find a verdict for the defendant on-the ground that the patent
sued on was void for want of novelty?
The defendant put in evidence a number of patents prior in
date to the plaintiff's, and asked the court to compare the
inventions and devices therein described with those claimed
by the plaintiff. No extrinsic evidence was given or needed
to explain terms of art, or to apply the descriptions to the
subject-matter, so that the court was able, from mere comparison, to say what was the invention described in each, and
to affirm from such mere comparison whether the inventions
were or were not the same. The question was, then, one of
pure construction and not of evidence, and consequently was
matter of law for the court, -without any auxiliary fact to be
passed upon by the jury.
If, upon the state of the art as shown to exist by.,he prior
patents, and upon a comparison of the older devices with those
described in the patent in suit, it should appear that the
patented claims are not novel, it becomes the duty of the
court to so instruct the jury. Powder Co. v. Powder Works,
98 U. S. 126; Hleald v. Rice, 101 U. S. 737, 749; Fond du
Lao County v. May, 137 U. S.395.
Looking, first, to the patent sued on, we find that its object
is stated to be "to prevent the oil from dripping on the axle
when the car stands still, and to feed the oil to the axle and
bearing whenever the car moves and jolts." The essential
parts are a cup holding the oil, a pipe with exterior threadscrews at each end, a stopper or plug, and a gauge. The
arrangement is as follows: The upper end of the pipe is
screwed into a disk which forms the bottoin of the oil cup.
The lower end of the pipe is screwed into the car-axle box or
bearing. Seated in the upper end of the pipe is the plug or
VOL. CLV--40

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

stopper, and the gauge is placed within the oil cup, with one
end fastened to a side of the cup, and the other extending to
and pressing on the head of the plug. fn operation, the oil
cup is filled with oil, and when the car is standing still the
gauge, pressing on top of the plug, keeps the plug in close
contact with the pipe, and thus prevents the oil from passing out of the cup into the pipe. When the car jolts, from
being in motion, then the plug or stopper likewise jolts and
rises, whereby an opening is made between the head of the
plug and the upper end of the pipe, through which opening
or crevice the oil passes out of the cup into the pipe, and runs
down the pipe into the axle box, and thus lubricates the axle
and the bearing.
There is a single claim in the following terms: "In a caraxle lubricator, the combination, with the axle bearing of the
oil cup, connected thereto by means of the screw-threaded
pipe, stopper or plug, located in the channel of said pipe, and
gauge, limiting the upward movement of the said stopper or
plug, substantially as set forth." In the specification the
patentees disclaim any particular shape or form of the cup,
plug, or gauge, saying, "We prefer to make the stopper of
the shape as shown in the drawing, but we do not confine ourselves to that shape or form, as any other suitable shape may
effect the same result. We do not confine ourselves to the
shape or form of the gauge, as shown in the drawing, as any
other suitable device by which the gauging of the rise for the
plug or stopper is effected will answer our purpose. We do
nbt confine ourselves to the shape of the oil cup, as described,
.as any other oil cup may be changed readily to admit of the
use and application of our stopper and gauge."
It thus appears that the claim of this patent must be construed to cover any lubricator composed of an oil cup, an outlet pipe connecting the oil cup with the axle-box containing
the axle and bearing, a plug or stopper, which closes the pipe
when the vehicle is at rest and opening it when there is a jolting motion, and a gauge adapted to control and limit the
movement of the stopper, and to thus regulate the flow of the
oil.

MARKET STREET RAILWAY CO. v. ROWLEY.

627

Opinion of the Court.

These separate devices and the combination described are
found in letters patent of the United States of a date prior to
the invention of Lyon and Y[unro, and for a similar purpose.
We do not deem it necessary to analyze in detail all the
prior patents put in evidence' by the defendant, but shall
describe two or three.
A patent to 0. J. Pinkney, No. 267,58, dated November
14, 1882, whose object was to lubricate the slides of locomotive engines, exhibits a combination of an oil cup, a screw pipe
connecting the oil cup with the part sought to be lubricated, a
stopper in the shape of a ball, the object of which is stated to
be to serve as cut-off to the opening and prevent the passage
of oil while the cup is atrest. The operation is thus described
in the specification: "By the jarring of the ball, which is
caused by the movements of the machinery. to which the cup
may be attached, the opening is sufficiently uncovered to allow
of the escape of small quantities of oil sufficient for lubricating
purposes. . . . This oil cup is especially designed for
lubricating the slides of locomotive engines, the jarring of the
ball by the movements of the locomotive being quite sufficient
to allow the cup to discharge the required quantity of oil without waste. It is an economical oiler, for when the machinery
is at rest there is no discharge of oil."
This patent discloses the same purpose and all the mechanical features of the claim in suit, except the gauge.
In a patent to -G. C. Herrick, No. 247,057, dated September
13, 1881, we find described an oil cup, connected with the part
to be lubricated by a pipe with thread screws, a stem or plug
on which is a piston which acts as a valve or stopper to control.
the oil passage, and the operation is thus described in the
specification: "The cup being applied to the bearing by inserting the threaded portion of the pipe in a socket provided for
it, the piston or puppet-valve rises and falls by the motion and
vibration of the machinery, and thus allows the oif to flow
intermittently from the cup around the piston and stem and
down through the bore of the plug to the bearing."
Here are all the elements of the patent in suit, except the
gauge, and the specification shows that the function of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

gauge is performed by the arrangement which prevent$ the
piston from rising further than the wall or end above it.
Letters patent to J. E. Worswick, No. 297,483, dated April
22, 1881, describe the device as consisting of an oil cup, a
screw pipe, a pin or plug; and it is stated that the movement
of the plug is controlled by an overlying shoulder or projection.
In the patent to S. Cbamley, No. 80,833, dated July 28,
1868, are to be found all the parts of the plaintiff's machine,
used for a similar purpose.
There is an oil cup connected with the bearing to be lubricated by a screw pipe. In the pipe or passage is a valve or
stopper. In the upper part of the passage is a screw which
lies just above the plug or stopper, and its function is described
in the specification as follows: "The regulating screw works
through the top of the cage or passage, and controls the movement of the valve. By turning this screw up or down the
valve will be allowed to rise more or less, and consequently
feed the oil faster or slower;" and the specification states:
"This invention consists in so arranging a valve in an oil cup
that it can be raised by the motion of the part to which the
cup is attached, and closed by its own gravity, so that the
discharge of the oil will depend on the rapidity of the motion
up and down."
The patent to R. A. Fischer, No. 293,237, dated February
12, 1884, shows similar devices- an oil cup, with a screw pipe
to attach it to the part to be lubricated, a ball stopper in the
oil passage, and an adjustable screw stem, controlling the
movements of the ball or stopper. The function of the screw
stem is stated to be to limit the upward movement of the
valve when the machinery is in motion, and that it can be
so adjusted as to shut down over the ball valve and limit its
movement.
The last patent we shall refer to is that granted to F.
Humphrey, July 27, 1886, and numbered 346,205. Here
again are found an oil cup, a Screw pipe, a plug, and an overlying adjustable screw gauge. The specification is as follows:
"In operation the oil cup is moved with greater or less rapid-

MARKET STREET RAILWAY CO. .. ROWLEY.

629

Opinion of the Court.

ity, according to the movement of the part to which it is applied, and this movement imparts momentum to the valve,
sufficient to cause the valve to be lifted from its seat, once at
least at each revolution of the crank. This movement of the
valve allows a small quantity of lubricant to escape through
the passage pipe to the crank pin or part to be lubricated.
The extent of the lift of the valve is limited by the extension
of the plug, the under surface of which acts as a stop in limiting or controlling the upward movement.of the valve.- If the
cup is moving comparatively slowly no stop is required, as the
momentum communicated to the valve is not sufficient to
throw it far enough from its seat to make one necessary.. If,
however, the movement of the cup is rapid, then it is desirable.
to locate the stop in relation to the valve to limit the extent.
of its throw produced by the momentum; and it will be observed that this stop is made vertically adjustable in relation
to the valve. The cup acts to deliver lubricant only while in
motion, and at all other times the valve is held to its seat by
gravity; and the cup can, of course, be used on any movable
bearing or part which will communicate motion to the loose
,
valve, and cause the operation of the cup."
It is impossible to read these several patents without perceiving that the patent in suit has been clearly and repeatedly
anticipated in its parts, function, and purpose.
The descriptions and drawings disclose some differences in
the shape of the several parts, but the plaintiffs declare in
their patent, in respect to the cup, the stopper, and the gauge,
that they do not confine themselves to the shape or form described in their drawings, "as any other suitable shape may
effect the same result."
The case is obviously within the principle, so often declared,
that a mere carrying forward of the original thought, a change
only in form, proportions, or degree, doing the same thing in
the same- way, by substantially the same means, with better
results, is not such an invention as will sustain a patent. Boberts v. Ryer, 91 U. S. 150; Belden -Manufacturing Co. v.
Challenge Corn Planter Co., 152 U. S. 100.
There is no room to contend that there was invention in

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

devising oil feeders for cars of a peculiar construction, like
those used by the Market Street Cable Railway Company.
The patent in question does not claim to*be intended to cover
an application to cars of any special form or structure; and
the devices of several of the anticipating patents could be
readily applied to the defendant's cars.
In view, then, of the state of the art as manifested by several prior patents, we think it is plain that the patent of Lyon
and Munro is void for want of patentable novelty, and that the
court below erred in not so instructing the jury.
This conclusion renders it unnecessary for us to consider the
question whether there was error in the court's instruction on
the question of an implied license.
Thejudgment is reversed and the case is remanded to the
Circuit Court, with a direction to set aside the verdict
and grant a new trial.
MR. JusTIcE BRowN

dissenting.

In the case of Battin v. Taggert, 17 How. 74, it was held
by this court that it was for the jury to judge of the novelty
of an invention, and of the identity of the machine used by the
defendant, with that of the plaintiffs, and whether they were
constructed and acted upon the same principle. And in Bischoffv. ]Wethered, 9 Wall. 812, it was also held that in a suit
at law involving a question of priority of invention, where the
patent under consideration was attempted to be invalidated by
a prior patent, counsel could not require the court to compare
the two specifications and to instruct the jury, as matter of
law, whether the inventions described therein were or were
not identical. Indeed, I understand it to be a general rule, applicable to all trials by jury, that if there be any conflict of testimony with regard to a particular fact, or if, the facts being
admitted, men in the exercise of reasonable judgment may
derive different inferences from such facts, the question is for
the jury. Comparing the patent in suit with the various prior
patents claimed to anticipate it, it seems to me that the ques-

DAVIS v, SCHWARTZ.
Statement of the Case.

tion of novelty is by no means so clear as to authorize the
court to take the case from the jury, and that the court did
not err in submitting it to them.

DAVIS v. SCHWARTZ.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA, EASTERN DIVISION.
No. 75. Argued November 12, 13, 1894.-Delded January 7, 1895.

In a case referred to a master to report the evidence, the facts and his conclusions of law, there is a presumption of correctness as to his finding of
facts similar to that in the case of a finding by a referie, the special verdict of a jury, the findings of a Circuit Court in a case tried by the court
under Rev. Stat. ยง 469, or in an admiralty cause appealed to this court.
In Iowa, an insolvent debtor may make a mortgage or other conveyance of
his property to one or more of his creditors, with intent to give them
preference, and, in the absence of fraud, such mortgage or conveyance
will not operate as a general assignment for the benefit of creditors,
unless intended so to operate.
The fact that the property so conveyed was much in excess of the debts
secured by the conveyance is not necessarily indicative of fraud; but in
such cases the question of good faith is one of fact, and a mere error of
judgment will not be imputed as a fraud.
The different transfers assailed in this suit examined, and, in the light of
these rulings, held to be valid.
The different mortgages assailed in this suit were for several and separate
Interests; and the one to Kent not being of the amount requisite to give
this court jurisdiction, the appeal as to him is dismissed.

THIS suit was originally begun by a petition filed December 29, 1884, upon the equity side of the District Court of
Lee County, Iowa, by certain creditors, who had previously
attached the stock in trade at Fort Madison, Iowa, of one
John H. Schwartz, to set aside and vacate four chattel mort-

gages upon such property, and subject the same to the payment of their debts.

Upon the following day the suit was removed, upon the

