OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

Defendants, in their trade circular advertising their own
machine, state: "Unlike the ordinary roller process, the action
of the disintegrator is to remove small portions, by cutting
from the clay fed into the hopper on the same principle as
shaving and whittling, and does not roll the clay into sheets,
thus making it unfit for proper manipulation. The past season
we have put out many of these machines in difficult clays, and
made it an obligation to work the clay both wet and dry, and
each machine has done its work well and to the entire satisfaction of the purchasers." This is a frank and apparently a
just tribute to the merits of the plaintiffs' invention, as well
as a distinct admission that their own machine accomplishes
the same result.
The decree of the court below is, therefore,
Reversed and the case remandedfor further proceedings in
conformity with this opinion.

CAMPBELL v. HAVERHILL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 57. Argued November 21, 22, 1894. -Decided

THE

January 7, 1895.

Where a party excepts to a ruling of the court, but, not standing upon his
exception, elects to proceed with the trial, he thereby waives it.
The statutes of limitation of the several States apply to actions at law for
the infringement of letters patent.

THIS was an action at law for the infringement of letters
patent No. 42,920, issued May 24, 1864, to James ]Knibbs for
an improvement in fire-engine pumps, of which patent plaintiffs were the assignees. The patent expired May 24, 1881.
The action was begun May 20, 1887, in the name of IRuel
Philbrook and several others, among whom was Christopher

CAMPBELL v. HAVERHILL.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

C. Campbell, the plaintiff in error, claiming to be at different
times assignees of the patent and of claims for infringements of the same.
Defendait pleaded among other things that "the cause of
action mentioned in the plaintiffs' declaration did not occur
within six years before the suing out of the plaintiffs' writ."
Upon the trial, the plaintiffs introduced evidence to show
that Philbrook, by assignments, had received all the title, as
assignee, held lby the several assignors to him during the life
of the patent, and claimed the right to proceed in one suit in
the name of all his prior assignors.
The court ruled that the action could not be maintained,
and that Philbrook could not sue in the name of all the assignors, but only in the name of the party or parties who held
the entire title to the patent in suit for the time being.
To this ruling the plaintiff Philbrook excepted, and his
exception was then. and there allowed; and thereupon, by
leave of the court, the plaintiff, for the purposes of that trial,
discontinued as to all the plaintiffs named in the writ, except
Christopher C. Campbell, and proceeded in his name. It was
admitted for the purposes of the trial that the entire title in
the patent vested in Christopher C. Campbell, individually or
as trustee, from the 10th day of October, 1877, to the 20th
day of December, 1880, and for the purposes of the trial no
claim for damages was made in behalf of said Campbell after
December 20, 1880.
The defendant then asked the court to direct a verdict for
the defendant on the ground that the action was barred by
the statute of limitations of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, as all claims for action under the admission terminated
December 20, 1880, and the writs were dated May 20, 1887,
and were served on the 23d day of May, so that more than
six years had elapsed. The court acceded to this view,
decided that the Massachusetts statute of limitations was a
defence to the suit, and directed a verdict for the defendant.
Whereupon plaintiff Campbell sued out this writ of error.
Mr. Harvey D. Hadlock for plaintiff in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Frederick P. Fish, (with whom was -M'.WT.E. Richardson on the brief,) for defendant in error.
M . JUSTICE BROWN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

1. Although the plaintiffs upon the trial excepted to the
ruling of the court that Philbrook could not sue in the name
of all the assignors, but only in the name of the party or
parties who held the title to the patent for the time being,
they did not stand upon such exception, but elected to discontinue as to all the plaintiffs except Campbell, and proceeded
in his name. We think the plaintiff must be held to abide by
his election, and to have waived the first error assigned by him.
We have repeatedly held that, where a party upon a trial
excepts to a ruling of the court, but does not stand upon such
exception, and acquiesces in the ruling and elects to proceed
with the trial, he thereby waives his exception. Grand Trunk
Railway v. Ctmmings, 106 U. S. 700; -Accident Ins. Co. v.
Crandal,120 U. S. 527; Robertson v. Perkins, 129 U. S. 233;
Columbia d Puget Sound Railroadv. H1awthorne, 14: U. S.
202.
These were all cases in which the defendant moved at the
conclusion of the plaintiff's case to take the case from the
jury, and upon the court refusing, acquiesced in the ruling
and introduced testimony in defence. But in United States
v. Boyd, 5 low. 29, there was a demurrer to a rejoinder,
which was sustained by the court below, and the defendant
by leave of the court filed an amended rejoinder, and went
to trial. Upon writ of error defendant asked this court
to revise the judgment of the court below in sustaining the
demurrer to the original rejoinder, but it was held that the
withdrawal of the demurrer, and going to issue upon the pleading, operated as a waiver of the judgment. "If," said the
court, "the defendants had intended to have a review of that
judgment on a writ of error, they should have refused to
amend the pleadings, and have permitted the judgment on
the demurrer to stand."
To the same effect are Cook v.

CAMPBELL v. HAVERHILL.
Opinion of the Court.

Castner, 9 Cush. 266, in which the plaintiffs voluntarily
changed their form of action, and in the appellate court attempted to show that the original action had been properly
begun; Brown v. Saratoga Railroad, 18 N. Y. 495, wherein
the defendant's demurrer to the complaint was overruled with
leave to withdraw the demurrer and put in an answer, which
was done, and the court said: "When a pleading is amended,
the original pleading ceases to be a part of the record, be.cause the party pleading, having the power, has elected to
make the change;" Cambell v. .Wilcox, 10 Wall. 421, wherein
this court held that the filing of a plea to the merits after a
demurrer was overruled, operated as a waiver of the demurrer.
To the same effect are Clearwater v. Meredith, 1 Wall. 25,
42; Aurora City v. West, 7 Wall. 82, 92; Young v. Martin,
8 Wall. 354; Marshallv. Vicksburg, 15 Wall. 146; Stanton v.
Embrey, 93 U. S. 548.
These rulings apply to this case, and render it unnecessary
for us to consider the alleged error of the court below in holding that the action could not be maintained by Philbrook.
2. The case then is reduced to the naked question whether
the statutes of limitations of the several States apply to actions
at law for the infringement of patents.
The question has arisen in a large number of cases, and the
Circuit Courts have been nearly equally divided. This is the
first time, however, that it has been directly presented to this
court. It was most carefully considered by the Circuit Court
of Massachusetts, holding in favor of the applicability of the
statute, in Hayden v. Oriental Mfills, 15 Fed. Rep. 605, and
by the Circuit Court of Conndcticut, in Brickill v. City of
.Harford, 49 Fed. Rep. 372, against it. In view of this conflict of opinion, which seems to be wholly irreconcilable, we
shall dispose of it as an original question.
Prior to 1870, no Federal statute existed limiting the time
in which actions for the infringement of patents must be
brought. In the general patent act of that year, however,
a clause was inserted in section 55 to the effect that "all
actions shall be brought during the term for which the letters patent shall be granted or extended, or within six years

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of tire Court.

after the expiration thereof." 16 Stat. 206, c. 230. This clause
was omitted, however, in the compilation of the Revised
Statutes, and therefore expired after the passage of the Revision, June 22, 1874--section 5596 enacting that all acts prior
to December 1, 1873, any portion of which was embraced in
any section of the revision, should be repealed. But under
section 5599, the statute was left in force as to all rights of
action in existence at the date of its repeal. It follows that
the Federal statute of limitation has no application to any
infringement committed since June 22, 1874. As no claim
was made for infringements in the present case except such as
occurred between October 10, 1877, and December 20, 1880,
it is obvious that the statute has no application. Does the
statute of ]Massachusetts, requiring actions of tort to be begun
within six years from the time the cause of action accrued,
operate as a defence to this action?
The argument in favor of the applicability of state statutes
is based upon Revised Statutes, ยง 721, providing that "the
laws of the several States, except, etc. . . . shall be regarded as rules of decision in trials at common law, in the
courts of the United States, in cases where they apply." That
this section embraces the statutes of limitations of the several
States has been decided by this court in a large number of
cases, which are collated in its opinion in Bauserman v.
Blunt, 147 U. S. 647. To the same effect are the still later
cases of .Metealf v. Watertown, 153 U. S. 671, and Balkam v.
lfoodstock Iron Go., 154 U. S. 177. Indeed, to no class of
state legislation has the above provision been more steadfastly
and consistently applied than to statutes prescribing the time
within which actions shall be brought within its jurisdiction.
It is insisted, however, that, by the express terms of section
721, the laws of the several States should be enforced only "in
cases where they apply," and that they have no application
to causes of action created by Congressional legislation and
enforceable only in the Federal courts. The argument is,
that the law of the forum can only apply to matters within
the jurisdiction of the state courts, and that the recognition
given by Congress to the laws of the several States does not

CAMPBELL v. HAVERHILL.
Opinion of the Court.

make such laws applicable to suits over which the state courts
have no jurisdiction, because for want of jurisdiction over the
subject-matter of the suit, the tribunals of the State are powerless to enforce the state statutes with respect to it; in other
words, that the States, having no power to create the right or
en force the remedy, have no power to limit such remedy or
to legislate in any manner with respect to the subject-matter.
But this is rather to assert a distinction than to point out a
difference. Doubtless such an argument would apply with
peculiar emphasis to statutes, if any such existed, discriminating against causes of action enforceable only in the Federal
courts; as if they should apply a limitation of a year to
actions for the infringement of patents, while the ordinary
limitation of six years was applied to all other actions of tort.
In such case it might be plausibly argued that it could never
have been intended by Congresn that section 721 should apply
to statutes passed in manifest hostility to Federal rights or
jurisdiction, but only to such as wbre uniform in their operation upon state and Federal rights and upon state and Federal courts. This question was touched upon incidentally in
.Metcalf v. WVatertown, 153 U. S. 671, in which it was claimed
that the statute of limitations of Wisconsin discriminated
,against judgments rendered in the Federal courts, but the
case went off upon the point that no such discrimination
existed. Perhaps under the final words of section 721, "in
cases where they apply," the court may have a certain discretion with respect to the enforcement of state statutes such
as was exercised by this court in several cases arising under
ยง 914, respecting pleadings and'forms and modes of proceeding. Nudd v. Burrows, 91 _U. S.426; Indianapolis & St.
Louis Railroad v. H1orst, 93 U. S.291; Phelps v. Oaks, 117
U. S.236. So, too, it has been held that statutes of liinitations must give a party a reasonable time to sue, and if a
particular statute should fail to do so it would be within the
competency of the courts to declare the same unconstitutional
and void. K oshkonong v. Burtoa, 104 U. S. 668; Wheeler v.
Jackson, 137 U. S. 245; Cooley on Const. Limitations, c. 11.
But as no such discriminationi is attempted by this statute,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894,
Opinion of the Court.

and no claim made that the time was unreasonably limited,
the point need not be further noticed.
Recurring then to the main proposition above stated, it may
be well questioned whether there is any sound distinction in
principle between cases where the jurisdiction is concurrent
and those where it is exclusive in the Federal courts. The
section itself neither contains nor suggests such a distinction.
The language of the section is general that the laws of the
several States shall be regarded as. rules of decision in every
case to which they apply, and it is at least incumbent upon
the plaintiff to show that, for some special reason in the nature
of the action itself, the section does not apply. But why
should the plaintiff in an action for the infringement of a
patent be entitled to a privilege denied to plaintiffs in other
actions of tort? If States cannot discriminate against such
plaintiffs, why should Congress by its silence be assumed to
have discriminated in their favor ? Why, too, should the fact
that Congress has created the right, limit the defences to which
the defendant would otherwise be entitled? Is it not more
reasonable to presume that Congress, in authorizing an action
for infringement, intended to subject such action to the general laws of the State applicable to actions of a similar nature?
In creating a new right and providing a court for the enforcement of such right, must we not presume that Congress intended that the remedy should be enforced in the manner
common t6 like actions within the same jurisdiction?
Unless this be the law, we have the anomaly of a distinct
class of actions subject to no limitation whatever; a class of
privileged plaintiffs who, in this particular, are outside the
pale of the la%, and subject to no limitation of time in which
they may institute their actions. The result is that users of
patented articles, perHaps innocent of any wrong intention,
may be fretted by actions brought against them after all their
witnesses are dead, and perhaps after all memory of the transaction is lost to them. This cannot have been within the contemplation of the legislative power. As was said by Chief
Justice Marshall in Adams v. Woods, 2 Cranch, 336, 342, of a
similar statute: "This would be utterly repugnant to the

CAMPBELL v. HAVERHILL.
Opinion of the Court.

genius of our laws. In a country within which not even treason can be prosecuted after the lapse of three years, it can
scarcely be supposed that an individual xould remain forever
liable to a pecuniary forfeiture."
Whatever prejudice there may have been in ancient times
against statutes of limitations, it is a cardinal principle of modern law and of this court, that they are to be treated as statutes.
of repose, and are not to be construed so as to defeat their
obvious intent to secure the prompt enforcement of claims
during the lives of the witnesses, and when their recollection
may be presumed to be still unimpaired. ,As was said of the
statute of limitations by :Mr. Justice Story (Bell v. MAorrison,
1 Pet..351, 360): "It is a wise and beneficial law, not designed
merely to raise a presumption of payment of a just debt, from
lapse of time, but to afford security from stale demands, after
the true state of the transactions may have been forgotten, or
be incapable of explanation, by reason of the death or removal
of witnesses.". This language is peculiarly applicable to patent
cases, in which questions of anticipation frequently rest in oral
testimony only, and are required to be proved to the satisfaction of the court by something more than a mere preponderance of evidence.
If these actions be exempted .Yrom the state statute of
limitations, it would undoubtedly follow that other statutes
of a similar nature, .adopting the local practice for certain
purposes, would be equally inapplicable. Yet it was held by
this court in Vance v. Campbell, 1 Black, 427, Hlaussknecht v,
Claypool, 1 Black, 431, and in iV'ighit v. Bales, 2 Black, 535,
that, under section 72A, rules of evidence prescribed by the
-laws of the States were obligatory upon the Federal courts in
patent cases, and that the plaintiff was a competent witness
in his own behalf where, by the law of the State, .parties
may be sworn.
Indeed,.if- the local statutes of limitations be not applicable
to these actions, it is difficult to see why the process, declarations, and other pleadings in the code States should not be in
common law form, notwithstanding section 914, adopting the
state practice in that particular; or why attachments should

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

be permitted, though authorized by state laws, (sec. 915;) nor
why a capias ad respondendum should not issue immediately
upon rendition of a judgment, notwithstanding see. 916, entitling parties recovering judgments to remedies similar to
those authorized by state laws; or why, parties, arrested or
imprisoned upon execution issued in these cases, should be
entitled to discharge under sec. 991; or why, in every other
respect, the suit should not be conducted regardless of the
laws of the particular State.
The truth is that statutes of limitations affect the remedy
only, and-do not impair the right, and that the settled policy
of Congress has been to permit rights created by its statutes
to be enforced in the manner and subject to the limitations
prescribed by the laws of *theseveral States. As was said by
Mr. Justice Wayne in .7icElmoyle v. Cohen, 13 Pet. 312, 327:
"Is it [the statute of limitations] a plea that settles the
right of a party on itcontract or judgment, or one that bars
the remedy? Whatever diversity of opinion there may be
among jurists upon this point, we think it well settled to be a
plea to the remedy, and consequently that the lex fori must
prevail." It was held in that case that the statute of limitations of the State of Georgia could be pleaded in an action
brought in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Georgia, on a judgment recovered in South Carolina.
INot only is this so, but we have repeatedly held that rights
created by Congress are subject to the police power,.as well
as to the taxing and licensing laws of the several States. In
Pattersonv. Jfentucky, 97 U. S. 501, it was held that a party
to whom letters patent were issued for "an improved burning
oil," whereof he claimed to be the inventor, was properly
convicted in Kentucky for selling the oil, it having been condemned by the state inspector as unsafe for illuminating
purposes, and that the enforcement of the statute interfered
with no right conferred by the letters patent. In Tfebber v.
Virginia, 103 U. S.344, it was held that the tangible property in which an invention or discovery may be exhibited or
carried into effect was properly taxable under the laws of the

C APBELL v. HAVERHILL.
Opinion of the Court.

State, although a statute requiring, an agent for the sale of
articles manufactured in other States to obtain a license was
unconstitutional, as in conflict with the commerce clause of
the Constitution. So, in Ager v. .Miurray,105 U. S.126, 128,
it was held that a patent right might be subjected by bill in
equity to the payment of a judgment debt of the patentee.
"The provisions of the patent and copyright acts," said the
court, "do not exonerate the right and property thereby
acquired by him [the patentee] . .
from liability to be
subjected by suitable judicial proceedings to the payment of
his debts." The rights of a patentee have also been held to
pass to an assignee in insolvency under the state law, if the
court so orders. Asheroft v. Walworth,'l Holmes, 152;
Barton v. White, 144 Mass. 281; In re K-iach, 14 R. I. 571.
In Beatty's Administrators v. Burnes's Administrators, 8
Cranch, 98, 107, 108, an action was brought in the Circuit
Court for the District of Columbia to recover moneys paid
defendant by the city of Washington for land taken by the
government. Plaintiffs sought to support their action under
a statute of Maryland of 1791. Defendant pleaded the
statute of limitations of the State of Maryland. "It is contended. said Mr. Justice Story, "that the present suit, being
a statute remedy, is not within, the purview of the statute of
limitations. But we know of no difference in this particular
between a common law and statute right. Each must be pursued according to the general rule of law, unless a different
rule be prescribed by statute, and where the remedy is limitedto a particular form of action, all the general incidents of that
action must attach upon it. Upon any other construction it
would follow that the cases would be without any limitation
at all. . . . Now the statute of limitations has been emphatically declared a statute of repose, and we should not feel
at liberty to break in upon its general construction by allowing an exception which has not acquired the complete sanction of authority." Still nearer in point is IkieCluny v.
Silliman, 3 Pet. 270, 277, in which the plaintiff sued the
'defendant, as register of the United States land office in Ohio,
for damages for having refused to note on his books applica-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

tions made by him for the purchase of land within his district.
Defendant pleaded the statute of limitations. Upon writ
of error from this court, plaintiff claimed that the statute
of limitations of the State was not pleadable in an action
brought for malfeasance in office, especially where the plaintijs rigkts accrued to hign under a law of Congress. The

statute was held to be a good defence. "In giving a construction to this statute," said the court, "where the action is
barred by its denomination, the court cannot look into the
cause of action.

.

.

.

By bringing his action on the case,

the plaintiff has selected the appropriate remedy for the
injury comiplained of. This remedy the statute bars. Can
the court then, by referring to the ground of the action, take
the case out of the statute ?" So, too, causes of action arising
under acts of Congress permitting suits to be brought by
importers against collectors of customs to recover duties
illegally assessed, have always been treated by this court as
subject to the statutes of limitations of the several States.
.Andreaev.
#edfteld,
98 U. S. 225; Barney v. Oelrichs, 138
U. S. 5C)9.
Indeed, it is only within the present century that Congress
has vested exclusive jurisdiction of patent causes in the Circuit Courts, since by the act of February 21, 1793, c. 11, ยง 5,
1 Stat. 318, 322, it was provided that damages in patent suits
might be recovered by "action on the case founded on this
act, in the Circuit Court of the United States, or any other
court having competent jurisdiction." This remained the law
until April 11, 1800, when Congress for the first time vested
exclusive jurisdiction in the Circuit Courts, but of actions at
law only, act of April 17, 1800, c. 25, 2 Stat. 37; and finally
by act of .February 19, 1819, c. 19, 3 Stat. 481, extended the
same jurisdiction to cases in equity. Even upon the theory
of the plaintiffs in this case, the statutes of limitations of the
States would have been a good defence so long as the jurisdiction was concurrent, but would cease to be so as soon as the
jurisdiction of the Federal courts became exclusive. The bare
statement of this proposition is sufficient to show its untenableness.

MARKET STREET RAILWAY CO. v. ROWLEY.

621

Statement of the Case.

In fine, we are all of the opinion that the statute of limitations was a good plea to this action, and the judgment of the
Circuit Court is, therefore,

Afrmed.

MARKET STREET

CABLE RAILWAY COMPANY
v. ROWLEY.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

FOR THE

No. 161. Submitted December 13, 1894.-Decided January 7,1895.
If, upon the state of the art as shown to exist by prior patents, and upon a
comparison of. older devices with the patent sued on in an action for
infringement, it appears that the patented claims are not novel, it becomes the duty of the court to so instruct the jury.
The claims in letters patent No. 9 65 ,7 5 4 , issued June 28, 1887, to Benjamin
W. Lyon and Reuben Munro for "improvements in automatic top-feed
lubricators for railroad car axle-box bearings," must be construed to
cover any lubricator composed of an oil cup, an outlet pipe connecting
the oil cup with the axle-box containing the axle and bearing, a plug or
stopper, which closes the pipe when the vehicle is at rest and opening it
when there is a jolting motion, and a gauge adapted to control and limit
the movement of the stopper, and to thus regulate the flow of the oil;
and, being so construed, the letters patent are void for want of novelty
in the invention covered by them.
A mere carrying forward of the original thought, a change only in form,
proportions, or degree, doing the same thing in the same way by substantially the same means, but with better results, is not such an invention
as will sustain a patent.

IN the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern
District of California, at the February term, of the year eighteen hundred and ninety-one, B. N. Rowley brought an action
at law against the Market Street Cable Railway Company, a
corporation under the laws of the State of California, wherein
he alleged that on the 28th day of June, 1887, Benjamin W.
Lyon and Reub6n Munro, as inventors of an improvement in
car-axle lubricators, obtained letters patent therefor, bearing
said date, and numbered as No. 365,754, and that subsequently,

