OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

of its repugnancy to the Constitution, and the Court of Appeals
declined to decide in favor of its validity. And if it could be
said upon the record that any right under the Constitution had
been specially set up and claimed by plaintiff in error at the
proper time and in the proper way, the state court did not
decide against such right, for the denial of the right depended
upon a decision in favor of the validity of the statute. What
the state court did was to leave the question as to whether
the statute was in violation of the Constitution of the United
States, and the indictments insufficient accordingly, to the
demanding State. Its action in that regard simply remitted
to the courts of Alabama the duty of protecting the accused in
the enjoyment of his constitutional rights, and if any of those
rights should be denied him, which is not to be presumed, he
could then seek his remedy in this court.
We cannot discover that the Court of Appeals, in declining
to pass upon the question raised in advance of the courts of
Alabama, denied to plaintiff in error any right secured to him
by the Constitution and laws of the United States, or that the
court in announcing that conclusion erroneously disposed of a
Federal question.
Judgmentafrmed.

WEHRMAN

v. CONKLIN.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.

No. 45. Argued October 31, 1894. - Decided December 10, 1894.
The general principles of equity jurisprudence, as administered in this
country and in England, permit a bill to quiet title to be filed only by a

party in possession, against a defendant who has been ineffectually
seeking to establish a legal title by repeated actions of ejectment; and
as a prerequisite to such bill it was necessary that the title of the plaintiff shpuld have been established by at least one successful trial at law.
The statutes of Iowa, (Code, ยง 3273,) having enlarged the jurisdiction of the
courts of equity of that State by providing that " an action to determine

and quiet title to real property may Pe brought by any one having or

WEHRMAN v. CONKLIN.
Syllabus.
claiming an interest therein, whether in or out of possession of the same,
against any person claiming title thereto, though not in possession,"
such enlarged jurisdiction, if sought to be enforced in a Federal court,
sitting within the State, can only be exercised subject to the constitutional provision entitling parties to a trial by jury, and to the provision
in Rev. Stat., ยง 723, prohibiting suits in equity where a plain, complete and
adequate remedy may be had at law.
In December, 1859, the land, the subject of controversy in this suit, was
patented to A. W. In the same month it was conveyed by A. W. and
his wife to F. W. In January, 1861, G. caused it to be attached as the
property of A. W. in an action founded upon a judgment obtained
against him in a court in Wisconsin, which case proceeded to judgment
against A. W. in September, 1861. Prior to levy of execution in that
case, G., in a suit in equity against A. W. and F. W., obtained a decree
declaring the deed to be void and ordering the land to be sold in satisfaction of the judgment at law. Levy was made, the land was sold, and
the sheriff made a deed conveying the property to G., who entered into
possession, paid taxes, and in 1881, 1882, and 1884 conveyed the lands to
C., who entered into possession and made valuable improvements upon
them. For thirty years the taxes have been paid by C. and his privies
In estate. F. W. having set up a claim to the property by reason of alleged
irregularities in the proceedings by which G. acquired title, and having
commenced an action in ejectment to enforce that claim, C. filed this bill
in equity setting up the foregoing facts, averring that the deed by A. W.
to F. W. was a cloud upon his title, and praying for a stay of the action of
ejectment, for an injunction against further proceedings at law, and
for a decree that C. held the lands free and clear from all claims of F. W.
A demurrer was interposed setting up among other things that the writ
of attachment was not attested by the seal of the court; that no service
of summons or notice was had upon A. W. in the State of Iowa; and
other matters named in the opinion. The demurrer being overruled,
answer was made, and a final decree was made in plaintiff's favor. Held,
Z1) That the plaintiff had no adequate remedy at law, and the Circuit
Court consequently had jurisdiction in equity;
(2) That if no action in ejectment had been begun at law, the long continued adverse possession of the plaintiff, and the equitable
title set up in the bill would have been a sufficient basis for the
maintenance of the suit;
(3) That, where title to real property is concerned, equity has a concurrent jurisdiction, which affords more complete relief than can
be obtained in a court of law;
(4) That the bill was in the nature of a judgment creditor's bill, setting
up defects of title, against which they liad a right to ask relief
from a court of equity;
(5) That it was immaterial whether the defects in the title of G. were
well founded or not;
(6) That the absence of the seal did not invalidate the writ.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

THis was a bill in equity brought by the appellees, Conklin
and wife, to enjoin the plaintiff, Wehrman, from prosecuting
an action of ejectment in the court below, against the appellees, to recover possession of the lands in controversy.
The bill, which was filed by T. ]B. Conklin and E. F. Conklin, whose Christian names are not given, but who appear
from subsequent allegations to be husband and wife, set forth
that they were the "absolute owners" of the property, which
had been purchased of the United States on June 9, 1857, by
one Adolph Wehrman, who received a patent therefor on
December 1, 1859. Afterwards, and on December 17, 1859,
Adolph Wehrman and wife conveyed the land in controversy
with other lands- about 2060 acres in all- by deed of warranty, to the defendant Frederick Wehrman for an expressed
consideration of $3000. This deed was recorded in the proper
office for the county of Woodbury, to which the county of
O'Brien, wherein the lands were situated, was then attached
for judicial purposes.
The bill further alleged that on January 14, 1861, a copartnership known as Greeley, Gale & Co. began an action at law,
aided by an attachment in the District Court of O'Brien
County, upon a judgment rendered by the Circuit Court of
Pierce County in the State of Wisconsin, against Adolph
Wehrman, which judgment was based upon notes given prior
to the date of the conveyance of said lands to the defendant
by Adolph Wehrman. Such judgment was rendered after
personal service upon Adolph Wehrman in the State of Wisconsin. A writ of attachment was issued by the clerk of the
District Court of O'Brien County, and levied upon the lands
in question, and notice personally served upon the defendant
in the State of Wisconsin, although no service of summons or
notice appears to have been had in .the State of Iowa. At
the time the writ of attachment was issued there was no time
fixed by law for holding the term of the District Court in
O'Biien County, though subsequently the judge appointed a
term to be held on the 3d day of June, 1861, to which day
the writ of attachment was actually made returnable. The
venue of the cause having been changed to the county of

WEHRMAN v. CONKLIN.
Statement of the Case.

Woodbury, on September 17, 1861, a judgment was rendered
by the District Court of 'that county against the defendant
Wehrman for $1809.40 damages and costs, and the lands
"described in the writ of attachment" were ordered to" be
sold in satisfaction thereof. A certified copy of this judgment was filed in the District Court of O'Brien County.
Afterwards, and prior to the June term of 1862, Greeley,
Gale & Co. commenced a suit in equity in the .District Court
of O'Brien County, against Adolph Wehrman and wife and
Frederick Wehrman, for the purpose of setting aside and cancelling the deed from Adolph Wehrman and wife to Frederick
Wehrman, as fraudulent and void against the creditors of the
former, and subjecting the lands described in this deed to the
payment and satisfaction of their judgment against Wehrman.
The plaintiffs averred that they were unable to set out
the proceedings in such suit for the reason that they had
become lost and destroyed, but that there was personal service upon the defendants in the State of Wisconsin; that,
subsequently, and at the June term of 1862, a decree was rendered by default declaring the deed to be fraudulent and void,
and ordering the lands to be sold in satisfaction of the judgment rendered by the District Court of Woodbury County,
and the proceeds to be applied to the payment of such judgment; that an execution was subsequently, and on June 16,
1862, issued from the District Court of Woodbury County,
directed to the sheriff of O'Brien County, by virtue of which
the sheriff levied upon the lands described in the writ of
attachment, and sold the same on July 31, 1862, to Carlos S.
Greeley, one of the members of the firm of Greeley, Gale
& Co., who thereupon acknowledged satisfaction of the judgment; and that on December 31, 1864, the land not being redeemed, the sheriff executed to Greeley a sheriff's deed, which
was filed, whereby Carlos S. Greeley became the absolute
owner of the land.
That he subsequently acquired a tax title to such lands for
the taxes of 1858 and 1859, and that said lands by conveyances
from Greeley in 1881, 1882, and 1884, became the property of
Conklin, who took immediate possession and has since been in

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

full, open, notorious, and adverse possession of the same. That
the plaintiffs and their grantors paid all the taxes upon such
lands for thirty years, and have made valuable improvements
by putting some six hundred acres under cultivation, by the
erection of substantial buildings and fences, digging wells and
otherwise improving the premises. That such improvements
have been made at an expense of $1000 and in full reliance
upon their title being good and valid. That in the meantime
defendant has never asserted any right or title to the premises, or notified plaintiff of his interest in the same. That
Wehrman never asserted any claim to the premises, until the
land became valuable by reason of the plaintiffs' expenditures;
had never paid any taxes upon the property, and, though
having actual knowledge of the proceedings taken by Greeley,
Gale & Co. to subject the land to the payment of their judgment, for more than twenty-seven years took no steps to have
the records corrected, or asserted any claim, or notified purchasers of such claim, until his action at law was commenced.
The bill further averred the conveyance by Adolph Wehrman to be a cloud upon their title, and, being in actual possession and occupancy of the land, they prayed that -the action
in ejectment be stayed until the determination as to their
rights to the land, and that Wehrman be enjoined from further proceedings at law.
Defendant interposed a demurrer to the bill for the want
of jurisdiction and of equity, which was overruled; and he
thereupon answered setting up certain defects in the proceedings under which Greeley, Gale & Co. sold the land upon execution, and by virtue of which proceedings plaintiffs claimed
to have acquired a title, viz.: (1) that the writ of attachment
was not attested by the seal of the court in which the action
was brought; (2) that no service of summons or notice was
had upon the defendant Adolph Wehrman in the State of
Iowa; (3) that such notice as was given described the action
as having been brought upon a judgment rendered May 12,
1860, when in fact the judgment was rendered September
12, 1860, and judgment.was taken upon the attachment proceedings upon a judgment so rendered September 12, 1860;

WEHRMAN v. CONKLIN.
Argument for Appellant.

(4) that the writ of attachment was made returnable at a term
commencing on June 3, 1861, when in fact the commencement of that term was not fixed until more than a month
after the writ was issued; (5) that a change of venue was
ordered from O'Brien County to Woodbury County, and the
papers sent there without having been in any manner certified
or verified by the seal of thd court in which the suit was
brought; (6) that the judgment was in ersonan, and ordered
the property "described in the writ of attachment" to be sold
to satisfy the same, when in fact no property was described in
the writ, but only in the return of the officer endorsed thereon;
(7) that in the subsequent equity suit to subject the lands to
the payment of this judgment, there was no personal service
or notice of process upon the appellant, Frederick Wehrman,
in the State of Wisconsin; (8) that the tax deed was defective,
inasmuch as the taxes on the lands for 1858 and-1859 were
payable by law to the treasurer of Woodbury County, whereas
the tax deed shows that the treasurer of O'Brien County
attempted to sell the lands for taxes and give a tax deed.
The case was argued upon pleadings and proofs, and the
court made a final decree in which the adverse claims of the
defendant Wehrman were adjudged to be invalid and groundless, the complainants decreed to be the true and lawful
owners of the laud, and their title to be quieted against the
claims of the defendant, who was perpetually enjoined from
setting up the same; and further, that defendant be enjoined
from further proceedings at law.
From this decree defendant appealed to this court. -The
opinion of the court upon demurrer is found in 38 Fed. Rep.
874, and upon final hearing in 43 Fed. Rep. 12.
.Mr. Charles A. Claro for appellant, to the question of
equitable jurisdiction, said:
Wehrman brought his action at law, to recover possession of
the lands in controversy. He claims by a strictly legal title.
Conklin claims by a strictly legal title. Appellant was entitled to a trial by jury to determine the validity of his title

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Argument for Appellant.

and that of Conklin. Equity has no jurisdiction to deprive
him of this rigbt. Lewis v. Cocks, 23 Wall. 466; Fussell
v. Gregg, 113 U. S. 550; Eilbian v. Ebbinghaus, 110 U. S.
568 ; Hipp v. Babi, 19 How. 271; Grand Chute v. Vinegar,
.15 Wall. 373; Whitehead v. Shattuck, 138 U. S. 146.
It will be observed that these decisions proceed upon the
ground that both parties have a constitutional right to trial by
jury. The party out of possession, who brings his action at
law to eject his adversary and try the question of legal title to
the real estate, is as much entitled to the right of trial by
jury as the party in possession, who also claims under a
legal title.
Both parties to this controversy claim that they hold the
legal title to the land. If Conklin holds such legal title by
virtue of the sheriff's deed or his tax deed, under which he
claims, he has an adequate and complete remedy at law, by
asserting and maintaining such legal title in the action at lav
brought against him by Wehrman.
If, however, the pretended equitable estoppel which he sets
up is requisite to the establishment of his title or right to
possession of the land, he can prove and establish that equitable estoppel as a defence in the action at law, as well as he
can assert it as a foundation for his suit in equity. Such is
the established doctrine of this court. Dickerson v. Colgrove,
100 U. S. 578; Firk v. Hamilton, 102 U. S. 68; Bacon v.
-NorthwesternIns. Co., 131 U. S. 258.
So far as any question of equitable estoppel is concerned,
therefore, Conklin had an adequate and complete remedy at
law, by asserting and proving such estoppel as a defence to
the action in ejectment.
It is also settled lawv that the equitable jurisdiction of Federal courts can be neither enlarged nor diminished by state
legislation. Such was the decision of this court in a case cited
supra, where the statutes of Iowa authorized a suit in equity
on a legal title against a party in the possession of real estate.
Whitehead v. Shattuck, 138 U. S.- 146. See also .Mississippi
-Millsv. Cohn, 150 U. S. 202 ; Payne v. Hook, 7 Wall. 425 ;
.McConahy v. If'ight, 121 U. 5. 205 ; Scott v. Neely, 140 U. S.

WEHRMAN v. CONKLIN.
Opinion of the Court.

106; Gates v. AZlen, 149 U. S. 451; Swan Lancd & Cattle Co.
v. Frank, 148 U. S. 612.
Mr. Ernest C. Reriok for appellees.
MR. Jus'iFc, Bnowx, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity not only to stay an action in ejectment at law, but to remove a cloud cast upon Conklin's title
to the lands in question, created by a deed from Adolph Wehrman to Frederick Wehrman, appellant and defendant in the
bill, and to quiet their own title thereto.
1. Defendant's principal contention is that equity has no
jurisdiction of the case, for the reason that the contest concerns the legal title only, and that plaintiffs have a plain,
adequate, and complete remedy at law. It is undisputed that
Carlos S. Greeley, a member of the firm of Greeley, Gale &
Co., bought the lands in question at a sheriff's sale which took
place on July 31, 1862, and that for about twenty years there-

after, when the lands were sold to Conklin, he paid the taxes
upon the land. That the Conklins upon their purchase of the
several parcels took immediate possession, and that they have
since been in full, open, and adverse possession and occupancy
of the same; have made large and valuable improvements
thereon by putting some six hundred acres under cultivation,
and by erecting substantial buildings and fences, digging wells
and otherwise improving the premises, making the same more
valuable, and have expended a thousand dollars in such improvements in good faith, and full reliance upon such title
being good and valid. That the defendant during such time,
and for more than twenty-seven years, had never done any act
or taken any step to have the records corrected or to assert
any claim on his part to such lands, or to notify purchasers of
his interest in the same until he began his action of ejectment.
The general principles of equity jurisprudence, as administered both in this country and in England, permit a bill to
quiet title to be filed only by a party in possession against a
VOL. CLV-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

defendant, who has been ineffectually seeking to establish a
legal title by repeated actions of ejectment, and as a prerequisite to such bill it was necessary that the title of the plaintiff
should have been established by at least one successful trial at
law. Pomeroy's Equity Jurisprudence, sections 253, 1394,
and 1396. At common law a party might by successive fictitious demises bring as many actions of ejectment as he
chose, and a bill to quiet title was only permitted for the
purpose of preventing the party in possession being annoyed
by repeated and vexatious actions. The jurisdiction was in
fact only another exercise of the familiar power of a court ot
equity to prevent a multiplicity of suits by bills of peace. A
statement of the underlying principles of such bills is found in
the opinion of this court in Ilolland v. Challen, 110 U. S. 15,
19, in which it is said: "To entitle the plaintiff to relief in
such cases the concurrence of three particulars was essential:
He must have been in possession of the property; he must have
been disturbed in its possession by repeated actions at law;
and he must have established his right by successive judgments
in his favor. Upon these facts appearing, the court would
interpose and grant a perpetual injunction to quiet the possession of the plaintiff against any further litigation from the
same source. It was only in this way that adequate relief
could be afforded against vexatious litigation and the irreparable mischief which it entailed."
This method of adjusting titles by bill in equity proved so
convenient, that in many of the States statutes have been
passed extending the jurisdiction of a court of equity to all
cases where a party in possession, and sometimes out of possession, seeks to clear up his title and remove any cloud
caused by an outstanding deed or lien which he claims to be
invalid, and the existence of which is a threat against his
peaceable occupation of the land, and an obstacle to its sale.
The inability of a court of law to afford relief was a strong
argument in favor of extending the jurisdiction of a court of
equity to this class of cases.
The statute of Iowa, upon which this bill is based, is an
example of this legislation, and provides (see. 3273) that "an

WEHRMAIN v. CONKLIII.
Opinion of the Court.

action to determine and quiet title to real property may
be brought by any one having, or claiming an interest
therein, whether in or out of possession of the same, against
any person claiming title thereto, though not in possession."
It will be observed that this statute enlarges the jurisdiction of courts of equity in the following particulars:
1. It does not require that plaintiff should have been
annoyed or threatened by repeated actions of ejectment.
2. It dispenses with the necessity of his title having been
previously established at law.
3. The bill may be filed by a party having an equitable as
well as a legal title. Grissom v. .Moore, 106 Indiana, 296;
Stanley v. lolliday, 30 N. E. Rep. 634; -Echols v. Hlubbard,
7 South. Rep. 817.
4. In some States it is not even necessary that plaintiff
should be in possession of the land at the time of filing the
bill.
These statutes have generally been held to be within the
constitutional power of the legislature; but the question still
remains, to what extent will they be enforced in the Federal
courts, and how far are they subservient to the constitutional
provision entitling parties to a trial by jury, and to the
express provision of Revised Statutes, section 723, inhibiting
suits in equity in any case where a plain, complete, and adequate remedy may be had at law. These provisions are
obligatory at all times and under all circumstances, and are
applicable to every form of action, the laws of the several
States to the contrary notwithstanding. Section 723 has
never been regarded, however, is anything more than declaratory of the existing law, Boyce v. Grundy, 3 Pet. 210, and
as was said in IV. Y. Guaranty Co. v. Memphis TFater Co.,
107 U. S. 205, 210, "was intended to emphasize the rule, and
to impress it upon the attention of the courts." It was not
intended to restrict the ancient jurisdiction of courts of
equity, or to prohibit their exercise of a concurrent jurisdiction with courts of law in cases where such concurrent jurisdiction had been previously upheld.
The question of enforcing these state statutes was first con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

sidered in Clark v. Smith, 13 Pet. 195, in which a bill was
filed by a party in possession to compel the defendant to
release a pretended title to certain lands claimed by him
under patents from the State of Kentucky. The conveyance
asked by the bill was sought to be in conformity with the
provisions of an act of the assembly of Kentucky giving jurisdiction to courts of equity in such cases. It was held that
the legislature "having created a right, and having at the
same time prescribed the remedy to enforce it, if the remedy
prescribed is consistent with the ordinary modes of procedure
on the chancery side of the Federal courts, no reason exists
why it should not be pursued in the same form as in the state
courts. On the contrary, propriety and convenience suggest
that the practice should not materially differ, where titles to
land are the subjects of investigation." This case was cited
and approved in Parker v. Overman, 18 How. 137, where a proceeding under a statute of Arkansas, prescribing a special
remedy for the confirmation of sales of land by a sheriff, was
held to be enforceable in the Federal courts. In Holland v.
C]allen, 110 U. S. 15, the principle of this case was extended
to one of wild land, of which neither plaintiff nor defendant
was in possession. Plaintiff claimed under a tax title, and
the property was described in the bill as unoccupied, wild,
and uncultivated land. The question was elaborately examined, and the jurisdiction sustained upon the ground that an
enlargement of equitable rights by state statutes may be
administered in the Federal courts as well as in the courts
of the State, citing Clark v. Smith, and the case of Broderick's 1ill, 21 Wall. 503, 5.20. The case was treated as one
where the plaintiff had no remedy at law against the defendant, who claimed an adverse interest in the premises. In
delivering the opinion, however, it was intimated, page 25,
that if a suit were brought in the Federal court under the
Nebraska statute, against a party in possession, "there would
be force in the objection that a legal controversy was withdrawn from a court of law; but that is not this case, nor is it
of such case we are speaking." Another step in the same
direction was taken in Reynolds v. Crawfordsville Bank, 112

WEHRM N v. CONKLIN.
Opinion' of the Court.

U. S. 405, in which a bill was sustained upon an equitable
title, although it would appear from the report of the case
that such title was not fortified by an actual possession; and
in Chapman v. Brewer, 114: U. S. 158, a similar suit was
upheld under a statute of Michigan permitting bills to quiet
title to be filed by any person in possession.
Subsequent cases, however, denied the power of the Federal
courts to afford relief under such statutes where the complainant was not in possession of the land, and in Whitehead v.
Shattuck, 138 U. S. 146, particularly, it was held that, where
the proceeding is simply for the recovery and possession of
specific real or personal property, or for the recovery of a
money judgment, the action is one at law. "The right which
in this case the plaintiff wishes to assert is his title to certain
real property; and the remedy which he wishes to obtain is
its possession and enjoyment; and in a contest over the title
both parties have a constitutional right to call for a jury."
The case of Holland v. Challen was distinguished as one
where neither party was in possession of .the property, and it
was further said that in the case of Reynolds v. Crawfordsviyle Bank the question did not arise as to whether the plaintiff had a remedy at law, but whether a suit to remove the
cloud mentioned would lie in a Federal court. The case of
United States v. Wilson, 118 U. S. 86, was really to the same
effect, though not cited in Whitehead v. Shattuck. See also
Frost v. Sitley, 121 U. S. 552. But nothing was said in
either of these to disturb the harmony of the previous cases.
The real question, then, to be determined in this case is,
whether the plaintiffs have an, adequate remedy at law. If
they have, then section 723 is controlling, and, notwithstanding a local practice under the code, where no discrimination
is made between actions at law and in equity, may authorize
such suit, the Federal courts will not entertain the bill, but
will remit the parties to their remedy at law. The bill under
consideration alleges the plaintiffs to be-the "absolute owners"
of the premises, and then sets forth certain proceedings by
which it is alleged they became such; but it is claimed and
substantially admitted in the bill that, by reason of certain

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

irregularities in these proceedings, it is doubtful whether the
legal title ever became vested in the plaintiffs. The bill then
sets up the long possession of the plaintiffs and their grantors,
large outlays by them in improvements upon the land, the
practical adandonment of the same by the defendant, all of
which, it is claimed, constitute an estoppel in pais. Plaintiffs
also rely upon the laches of Wehrmau in bringing the action
in ejectment, and allege a failure to bring his suit within the
period prescribed by the statute of limitations. It is entirely
clear that, if no action in ejectment had been begun at law,
the long-continued adverse possession of the plaintiffs, and the
equitable title set up in the bill, would have been a sufficient
basis for the maintenance of the suit; and it is not easy to see
why the commencement of such action should place them in
a worse position than they were in before or oust them of
their remedy in equity.
If the only contest in this case were as to whether the legal
title to these lands was in the plaintiffs or defendant, it may
be that a court of law would be the only proper forum for
the settlement of this dispute; but the plaintiffs further claim
that, by reason of certain defects in the proceedings by which
they acquired title, such title is doubtful at law; but that the
long delay of the plaintiff at law in the assertion of his rights,
establishes a defence of ]aches, and his failure to set up his
title, and his long acquiescence in the Conklins' possession of
the lands, estop him from proceeding either at law or in equity
to oust them.
It is scarcely necessary to say that complainants cannot
avail themselves as a matter of law of the laches of the plaintiff
in the ejectment suit. Though a good defence in equity, laches
is no defence at law. If the plaintiff at law has brought his
action within the period fixed by the statute of limitations,
no court can deprive him of his right to proceed. If the
statute limits him to twenty years, and he brings his action
after the lapse of nineteen years and eleven months, he is as
much entitled as matter of law to maintain it, as though he
-had brought it the day after his cause of action accrued, though
such delay may properly be considered by the jury in connec-

WEHRMAN v. CONKLIN.
Opinion of the, Court.

tion with other facts tending to show an estoppel. As was
said by Chancellor Green in Rorner v. Jobs, 2 Beasley, (13
N. J. Eq.,) 19, 23 : "Nor can the staleness of the claim, or the
lapse of time, or the statute of limitations, avail the complainant. The defendant is asking no relief at the hands of this
court. He was seeking to enforce his legal rights in a court
of law. The complainant is here asking the aid of this court.
It is the claim of the complainant, not the title of the defendant, to which the equitable defence of a stale claim is applicable. No lapse of time can avail the complainant, unless it
be a part of the defendant's title under the statute of limitations. This defence will avail the defendant at law as well as
in equity, and constitutes no ground for enjoining proceedings
at law." Had Wehrman seen fit to resort to a court of equity
in assertion of his rights, undoubtedly the defendants to such
suit might have interposed the defence of laches, but it is quite
a different question whether it could be made the basis of a
bill. It may, however, be considered as one of the facts of the
case tending to show an estoppel.
Undoubtedly the facts set forth in this bill are such as tend
to show an equitable estoppel on the part of Wehrman, and
this court did hold in a very carefully considered opinion in
.Dickersonv. Colgrove, 100 U. S. 578, that an estoppel inpaie
was an available defence to an action at law. This case was
cited and applied in Baker v. Humplhrey, 101 U. S. 494; in
Kirk v. .Hamilton, 102 U. S. 68; and in Drexel v. Berney,
122 U. S. 241; although, in the last case, the bill was supported upon the ground that a resort to a court of equity in
the particular case was necessary in oider to make the estoppel
available. As was said by Mr. Justice Matthews: "All that
can properly be said is, that in order to justify a resort to a
court of equity, it is necessary to show some ground of equity
other than the estoppel itself, whereby the party entitled to
the benefit of it is prevented from making it available in a
court of law." To the same effect is Gable v. Wetherholt, 116
Illinois, 313.
But even if it be assumed that the facts relied upon as constituting an equitable estoppel in this case might be laid before

OCTOBER TERM, 1891
Opinion of the Court.

a jury in a common law action, and if established operate as a
defence, yet it does not necessarily follow that a bill in equity
will not also lie to cancel the outstanding deed from Adolph
to Frederick Wehrman as fraudulent, or at least as unavailable under the peculiar circumstances of the case. There is
a class of cases which hold that where there is actual fraud no
remedy at law is complete and adequate, except that which
removes the fraudulent title. As early as 1750, it was held
by Lord Chancellor Rardwicke, in Bennet v. 3fusgrove, 2 Ves.
Sen. 51, that a bill would lie by an execution creditor to set
aside a fraudulent conveyance, whether he could recover at
law or not. Objection having been made to the bill upon the
ground that the remedy at law was complete, the Lord Chancellor observed: "But be it as it may, whether he could
recover or not, he is entitled to come into this court; the distinction in this court being, where a subsequent purchaser for
valuable consideration would recover the estate, and set aside
or get the better of a precedent voluntary conveyance, if that
conveyance was fairly made without actual fraud, the court
will say, take your remedy at law; but wherever the conveyance is attended with actual fraud, though they might go to
law by ejectment, and recover the possession, they may come
into this court to set aside that conveyance; which is a distinction between actual and presumed fraud from its being
merely a conveyance." This is still the law in England.
_Blemkinsopp v. Blenkinsopp, 1 De G., M. & G. 495. The leading case in the Federal courts upon this point is Bean v. Smith,
2 Mason, 252, in which Mr. Justice Story held that, nbtwithstanding the restrictive clause of the judiciary act, IRev. Stat.
ยง 723, a judgment creditor might file a bill in equity against
his debtor to set aside a fraudulent conveyance, since there is
not, in the proper sense of the term, a plain, adequate, and
complete remedy at law.
While, in view of our decisions in Insurance Company v.
Bailey, 13 Wall. 616, and Buzard v. Houston, 119 U. S.347,
there may be a doubt whether this remedy is available in personal actions, the law is well settled that where title to real
property is concerned, equity has a concurrent jurisdiction,

WEHRI

AN v. CONKLIN.

Opinion of the Court.

because it may not only enjoin an action at law, but may
order a cancellation of the fraudulent conveyance, and prohibit the bringing of further suits at law upon the fraudulent
title, and thus afford a more complete relief than is possible
in a court of law. Dodge v. Griswold, 8 N. Hl. 425; Tappan
v. Evans, 11 N. H. 311; Sheafe v. Sheafe, 40 K. H. 516;
Miller v. Scammon, 52 N. H. 609; Traip v. Gould, 15 Maine,
(3 Shepley,) 82; Cox v. Dunham, 4 Halst. Oh., (8 N. J.Eq.,)
594; Shteppard v. .verson, 12 Alabama, 97; Planters'co. Bank
v. Walker, 7 Alabama, 926; Murphy v. Blair,12 Indiana, 184;
Mohawk Bank v. Atwater, 2 Paige, 54; 2 Por. Eq. Juris. ยง 1415.
When analyzed, the bill under consideration is really in the
nature.of a judgment qreditor's bill filed by the plaintiffs, who
claim that they have acquired, by successive assignments from
the original creditors, a lien upon certain lands which the
debtor has conveyed in fraud of the original creditors. There
are also, it is true, the additional reasons that the plaintiffs
have long been in possession of the land; that the records of
the case, through which the original purchaser at the execution
sale claimed to have acquired the legal title to the lands, have
been lost, and that their title, though perfectly good in equity,
may be technically insufficient at law. In such case they have
a right to call upon a court of equity for relief against such
defects. Simremons Creek Coal Co. v. Doran, 142 U. S. 417,
449; Stone v. Anderson, 6 Foster, (26 K. H.,) 506; Conroy v.
Woods, 13 California; 626; Robert v. Hodges, 16 N. J. Eq.
(1 0. E. Green) 299.
2. Upon the merits, the case presents no difficulty whatever.
We do not find it necessary tro
examine in detail the several
defects, which are claimed to invalidate the proceedings under
which Greeley finally became the purchaser of the land in question, since we are all of the opinion that the plaintiffs are entitled to a decree, whether these proceedings vested a legal
title in Greeley or not. Greeley, Gale & Co. had a legal claim
against Adolph Wehrman upon a judgment lawfully obtained
against him in Wisconsin. Upon the basis of this judgment
they brought suit against him in Iowa, sued out a writ of
attachment, and levied it upon the lands in question.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Admitting that the writ was not impressed with such a seal
as the law required, it was not, under the circumstances, void
upon that ground. O'Brien County was not organized as an
independent county until February 6, 1860. The writ was
issued January 14, 1861. The county offices being evidently
not yet iti a complete working condition, the clerk affixed an
ordinary private seal or scroll to the writ, with a statement
that no seal had yet been procured. Granting that a failure
to use an engraved seal actually provided would avoid the
writ, certainly the clerk was entitled to a reasonable time to
procure such seal. In the meantime, however, the rights of
suitors and of the public ought not to be prejudiced by the
lack of one. The whole civil and criminal business of the
county ought not to come to a stop simply through the failure
of its officers to provide it with a seal. As was justly observed
by the learned judge of the Circuit Court: "The only purpose
of the seal is to authenticate the issuance of the writ. May
not such authentication be furnished in other ways, if for any
reason the court is without an engraved seal for a time? Suppose that to-day the engraved seal of O'Brien County should
be destroyed or stolen, must all the judicial proceedings therein
be brought to a standstill, awaiting the procurement of another
engraved seal? Would not this be subverting substance to
mere form? Would it not be permissible for the court to continue the issuance of writs of attachment and execution, having
attached thereto a scroll as a seal, the writ on its face showing
the reason thereof ?"
While the clerk does not seem to have used any great diligence in procuring a seal, his laches in that particular cannot be made the subject of inquiry here. The fact that no
engraved seal had been procured is a sufficient excuse for
the purpose of the case. The sheriff, by virtue of this writ,
made a levy upon the lands in question, endorsed such levy
upon the writ, and caused personal notice to be served upon
the defendant Wehrman in the State of Wisconsin, January
25, 1861.

It is also true that the petition for the attachment described
the judgment sued upon as having been rendered on May 12,

WEHRMAN v, CONKLIN.
Opinion of the Court.

1860, when in fact it was not rendered until September 12;
that the writ was made returnable upon a day which had not
been fixed as the first day of the next term of the court,
though it was subsequently fixed upon that day; and that, in
changing the venue of the action to Woodbury County, the
transcript of the record was sent to such county without being
certified by the seal of the court in which the suit was brought.
While these might have been good defences to the action, if
seasonably interposed, they do not render the writ and all the
proceedings thereunder void. Indeed, it is at least doubtful
whether, if no notice at all had been served upon Wehrman,
the lien of the attachment would have thereby been lost. The
object of the notice is to apprise the defendant of the commencement of the suit, and to call him in to defend and prevent the
plaintiff: from obtaining judgment if he can. The object of
the writ, which is issued ex yarte, is to enable the plaintiff to
obtain a lien upon the land, which may be subsequently enforced by a sale upon execution, if judgment be obtained. If
notice were actually served upon the defendant in Wisconsin,
as claimed, it is difficult to see why the judgment subsequently
entered up was not valid as against the land attached, though
of course not against the defendant imesonav.
Whether the subsequent proceeding by bill to set aside the
deed from Adolph to Frederick Wehrman was invalid or not,
it is unnecessary to inquire. The attachment and subsequent
long continued possession thereunder vested an interest in the
present plaintiffs which was amply sufficient as a basis for
this bill. If, as is claimed, the deo6ee in the chancery court
was void because no personal service was obtained upon
defendant Wehrman within the State of Iowa, there is greater
reason why jurisdiction of the present bill should not be declined, since the object of this bill is practically the same as
the other, viz., to obtain the benefit of the attachment proceedings. If personal service were obtained in the State of
Wisconsin, we see no objection to the decree as rendered, since
the Code of Iowa, sections 2831 and 2835, permit personal
service or service by publication upon defendants out of the
jurisdiction "in an action for the sale of real property under

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

a mortgage lien or other incumbrance or charge;" and such
statutes have been upheld by this court. Arndt v. Griggs,
134 U. S. 316. If no proper service were obtained, then we
are able to do in this suit what was ineffectually attempted
there.
The salient and decisive facts of this case are that Greeley,
Gale & Co. obtained, or at least attempted to obtain, a lien
upon this land by virtue of their attachment; that personal
service of such proceeding was made upon Adolph Wehrman
in the State of Wisconsin, January 25, 1861; that they went
through the form of obtaining a judgment against these lands,
and selling them: upon execution; that Greeley purchased
these lands upon such sale, paid taxes thereon, acquired tax
titles thereto, and subsequently sold the same, and that plaintiffs in this suit became the purchasers; that they immediately
took possession of the same; and that they and their grantors
have been in open, notorious, and undisturbed possession for
twenty-seven years; have built a house and other buildings,
and made other improvements thereon; that Frederick Wehrman, the defendant herein, took title to these lands December
17, 1859, the very day that suit was originally begun against
Adolph; that the deed was made to him under circumstances
tending strongly to show that it was intended as a fraud upon
the creditors of Adolph Wehrman; that he took no steps to
assert his title or right of possession to these lands, but practically abandoned the same until, by the increase of population
and the settlement of the country, they had become of material value. Whether he had actual notice of the chancery suit
or not, it is highly improbable that if he had been a bona ftde
purchaser of these lands, lying in another State, for which he
had paid, or agreed to pay, $3000, (almost double their actual
value,) he would have taken no steps for nearly thirty years
to assert his right thereto. Particularly is this so in view of
the fact that he was only an ordinary day laborer at the time
he took the deed; having only a few farming implements and
a meagre supply of household goods, and, as one of the witnesses
expressed it, could not have borrowed without security onetenth of the sum he was purported to have paid for the property.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD CO. v. JONES.

333

Syllabus.

Evidently he was not a man to invest $3000 in wild lands
and turn his back upon them for twenty-seven years. As was
said by this court in Underwood v. Dugan, 139 U. S. 380, 384,
"ownership of property implies two things -first, attention
to it; second, a discharge of all obligations, of taxation or
otherwise, to the State which protects it. When it appears
that one who now asserts a title to property, arising more
than the lifetime of a generation ago, has during all these
years neglected the property, and made no claim of title thereto, a reasonable presumption is that, whatever may be apparent on the face of the instrument supposed to create the title,
were the full facts known, factswhich cannot now be known
by reason of the death of the parties to the transaction, it
would be disclosed that no title was in fact obtained; or, if
that be not true, that he considered the property of such little
value that he abandoned it to the State which was protecting
it." Considering all the facts of this case, it is not a matter
of surprise that, when charged in this bill with having received
his deed without consideration, and with intent to defraud the
creditors of his brother Adolph, the defendant should not
have been called to testify in relation to the transaction. In
short, it would be -difficult to conceive of a clearer case of
estoppel inypais.
The decree of the court is therefore
Afflrmed.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD
PENNSYLVANIA

ERROR TO THE SUPREME

COMPANY v. JONES.

RAILROAD COMPANY v.
STEWART.
COURT OF

THE DISTRICT

OF COLUMBIA.

Nos. 40, 41. Argued October 26, 29, 1894.- Decided December 10, 1894.

It is the duty of a railroad company, running its trains in connection with
other lines, and taking passengers and freight for transportation to
points upon connecting lines, to carry them safely to the end of its own

