CHASE v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

which land petitioner was at, the beginning of said suit and is
now seized and possessed, and that petitioner's right and title
to said land is as a homestead entered by him under the homestead laws of the United States, and for which petitioner holds
a certificate of entry under said statutes, and that petitioner's
title and right to said lands arise under the laws of the United
States, and that the matter in dispute in this suit exceeds the
sum of two thousand dollars, exclusive of costs."
The cause wa§ so removed, and on trial a verdict was had
for the defendant, and judgment on the verdict. The cause
was brought here by WVrit of error.
.Mr. John

. JForganfor plaintiff in error.

.Mr. D. P. Bestoi for defendant in error.
THE CHIEF JuSTICE: The judgment is reversed with costs,
and the case remanded with a direction to remand it to the
City Court of Birmingham, county of Jefferson, Alabama, on
the authority of Chappell v. l1aterworth, 155 U. S. 102.
Reversed and remanded.

CHASE v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIROUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF INKDIAXNA.
Wo. 83. Argued November 19, 1694.-

Decided. December 10.1S94.

Judgments in a District or Circuit Court of the United States in cases brought
under the act of March 3, 1887, c. 359, 24 Stat. 505, are not required to be
brought here for revisioii by appeal only, but may be brought by writ of
error; but they will be redxamIned here only when the record contains
a specific finding of facts with the conclusions of law thereon.
On the 1st day of May, 1870, the Postmaster General had no authority to
contract in writing for the lease of accommodations for alocal post office
in a building for a term 'of twenty years.

THIS writ of error brought up a judgment of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Indiana, dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

missing a suit instituted against the United States by the
personal representatives of Hiram W. Chase.
It appears from the statement of facts made by the court
below that on the 17th day of July, 1866, John K. Snider
leased for a term of ten years a certain lot with the building
thereon in Lafayette, Indiana, to be occupied by the United
States as a post office; that the building was so occupied until
December, 1869, when it was destroyed by fire; that James
Montgomery, previous to the fire, became the owner of the
property, and entitled to the benefit of the lease; that on the
1st day of May, 1870, Montgomery made a lease, in form to
the United States represented by the Postmaster General, for
the term of twenty years and at an annual rental of $1500,
payable in equal quarterly instalments, of certain parts of a
building which he covenanted to erect upon the same lot.
ie also covenanted to supply and keep in repair to the satisfaction of the Postmaster General all boxes and fixtures necessary for a post office in that building.
Montgomery erected the required building and the United
States took possession of it. On the 15th day of April, 1870,
he assigned his interest in the lease to one Tuttle, who, on the
10th of February, 1871, assigned to Chase, the testator of the
plaintiff. Subsequently, May 10, 1886, the government, without complaining of any violation of the terms of the lease,
vacated the premises and refused to pay rent thereafter.
During the occupancy of the premises Chase laid out and
pended for furniture, fixtures, and required changes the sum
of $2000, and, at the time the premises were vacated, he was
engaged in conformity with the request of the postal officers
in making other repairs and additions.
The present action was brought on the lease to recover the
amount due for the unexpired term.
The Circuit Court adjudged that the Postmaster General
had no authority to execute the lease, and that the government was not liable to suit upon it. For that reason the suit
was dismissed. 4-4 Fed. Rep. '732.
That judgment being brought here by writ of error, a
motion was made to dismiss the writ, on the ground that there

CHASE v. UNITED STATES.
Argument in Support of Motion to Dismiss.

was no jurisdiction in this court by writ of error to review
the judgment complained of. The hearing of this motion was
postponed to the hearing on the merits.
Mr. John C. Clianey, for plaintiff in error, (Mr. Addison C.
-Harrisfiled the brief for same,) said, on the merits:
The Postmaster General had, by virtue of his power "to
establish post offices," full power to rent, or lease, in short
all the power of Congress which had not been taken from
him by some negative act of Congress; and the power to
lease, while it has been treated as a power "necessarily implied" from the power "to establish," is something more. It
is more correct to call it an

"

included" power than an

"

im-

plied" pbwer; but whatever be its correct name, it was a
power which reposed in the Postmaster General's bands at
the time he made the lease sued on ; so it was "authorized by
law" within section 3732 of the Revised Statutes. lVare v.
United States, 4 Wall. 617.
When it is admitted that the Postmaster General has power
to make a lease, it follows that, in the absence of a statute
limiting the length of time leases may run, he has plenary
power (unless acting in bad faith) to make leases; for, if a
court should assume to inquire into the necessity of the lease,
i.e. whether a lease of one, two, five or twenty years was
longer than necessary to the proper conduct of the post office
in a given- place, that would be ipsofacto to deny the power,
and moreover it would seem impossible to find any basis for
the decision of such a question. See McCalloch v. J3.aryland,
4 Wheat. 316, 423; Jacksonville, Pensacola &c. Railroadv.
United States, 118 U. S. 626; Ga7/ielde v. United States, 93
U. S. 246; Ex _parte Jackson, 96 U. S. 727, 732; Ware v.
United States, sypra.
Xr. Assistant Attorney General Dodge, (with whom was
Mr. Solicitor General on the brief on the motion to dismiss,
and Mr. -AssistantAttorney General Conrad on the brief on
the merits,) said, on: the motion to dismiss:

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Argument in Support of Motion to Dismiss.

This case, coining to the court as it does by writ of error,
presents the opportunity for an authoritative construction of
the appellate provisions of the act of March .3, 1887, c. 359, 24
Stat. 505, commonly known as the Tucker Act, and for the
decision of the question whether the judgments of Circuit
and District Courts under that peculiar jurisdiction should be
brought up for review by-appeal or by writ of error.
This question has grown greatly in importance since the
interposition of the Circuit Courts of Appeal as reviewing
tribunals. O ing to unfamiliarity of many District Attorneys and Federal judges with the Court of Claims practice,
and the inaccessibility of reports of the decisions of that court,
the methods adopted in bringing up judgments and records
for review and the rulings of the courts thereon vary widely
and are' extremely confusing. In many cases the right of
litigants to review such judgments is jeopardized, and, indeed,
entirely defeated.
In one Circuit Court of Appeals, appeals are dismissed
because no bill of exceptions is settled bringing into the
record the various objections and exceptions saved in the
course of the trial. In others, both attorneys and court apparently deem it essential that the evidence taken on the trial
be embodied in the record. In very many the importance and
significance of the findings of fact and con6lusions of law are
wholly lost sight of by reason of misapprehension as to the
proper method of review. In others, appeal is held to be
proper. United States v. Fletcher, 60 Fed. Rep. 53; United
'tates v. Tuers, 60 Fed. Rep. 641.
The existing statutes for the review of judgments of the
Court of Claims reached their present form in the Revised
Statutes in 1874, in §g 707, 708, by the latter of which authority was expressly conferred on the Supreme Court to regulate
the method of allowing appeals. By virtue of these statutes
certain rules prescribed by the Supreme Court have been
incorporated into and have undoubtedly become a part of the
law regulating the appeals; among others Rule I, limiting the
review to the purely legal question, what jvdgment _roperly
results fro n the facts found by the trial court, thereby elimi-

CHASE v. UNITED STATES.
Argument in Support of Motion to Dismiss.

nating many of the questions usually presented on appeals, but
more especially eliminating those matters which are presented
by writs of error, and require exceptions to be taken in the
trial court and bills of exceptions to be settled to bring them
into the record, such as error in the admission or rejection of
evidence, or in making findings of fact unsupported by evideuce or contrary to the undisputed evidence. The single
question so to be considered requires no variation in the
method of bringing it up, and therefore an appeal only is
provided and no writ of error authorized. United States v.
Young, 94 U. S. 258, 259.
Under this jurisdiction grew up a well-recognized class of
cases known as claims against the United States, distinguished
from all other litigations by the character of the defendant,
and unaffected by the nature of the transactions out of which
they sprang or by considerations as to whether they would
have been legal or equitable in their character if between
individuals.
When in 1887, by the Tucker Act, concurrent jurisdiction
over this same class of cases was conferred on Circuit and District Courts, no change took place in the distinctiveness of the
class; they remained cases of claims against the United States
as before. The statute, § 9, gave to the parties "the same
rights of appeal or writ of error as are now reserved in the
statutes of the United States in that behalf made.
The modes of procedure in claiming and perfecting an appeal
or writ of error shall conform in all respects as near as may be
to the statutes and rules of court governing appeals and writs
of error in like causes."
This court has had occasion to pass upon this portion of the
statute but once, viz., in United States v. Davis, 131 U. S. 36.
That was an appeal from a judgment in an action of legal,
as distinoished from equitable, character, rendered by the
District Court of the District of Maryland. This court held
that the rights of appeal and writ of error reserved by the
Tucker Act were the same as formerly existed from the Court
of Claims, and that the words in that act "reserved in the
statutes of the United States in that behalf made" meant

OCTOBER TERTA, 1894.
Argument in Support of Motion to Dismiss.

reserved with reference to judgments in cases of claims against
the United States in the Court of Claims.
The statute has received further construction at the hands
of Mfr. Justice Lamar, sitting at circuit in Strong v. United
States, 40 Fed. Rep. 183, So. Dist. Alabama. The logic of the
Davis case is there slightly amplified, and it is held that the
right to the review of judgments in claims cases in Circuit and
District Courts is controlled by the statutes regulating reviews
of judgments of the Court of Claims; in other words, sections
707 and 708, Revised Statutes, are held to be, by the section
above quoted, embodied in the Tucker Act, and therefore to
constitute and limit the full measure of review to which either
party is entitled.
This principle applied to the present case is conclusive of
the motion to dismiss the writ. Writ of error is not and
never was authorized to review judgments of the Court of
Claims, and therefore is not available to bring up for review
judgments of the Circuit and District Courts rendered in their
concurrent jurisdiction over claims cases.
Another consideration exists in the long and well-established
practice of this court under the Tucker Act to take jurisdiction by appeal from judgments which in case of individual
litigants would be reviewable only on writ of error. We cite
below all the reviews of judgments of Circuit or District
Courts in claims cases upon which this court has passed otherwise than to dismiss either on stipulation or on motion of the

appellant or plaintiff in error. They are all appeals, and all
except thrte are actions at law as distinguished from suits in
equity. So far as we have been able to discover, no case other
than, the one at bar has been brought to this court by writ of
error, except that of Richard S. Tuthill, which was dismissed
in April, 1890, on, motion of the government, plaintiff in error,
for what reason we have been unable to ascertain. United
States v. Davis (Maryland), 131 U. S. 36. NI~otion to dismiss
overruled; United States v. Barber (Mid. Alabama), 140 U. S.
164, affirmed; United States v. Tuthill (Nor. Illinois). Writ
of error dismissed April, 1890, on motion of the plaintiffs
in error, 136 U. S. 652; United States v. Jones (Oregon), 131

CHASE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 1, reversed; United States v. Taubenheimer (Oregon),
131 U. S. 1, reversed; United States v. Milontgomery (Oregon),
131 U. S. 1, reversed; United States v. Barber (Mid. Alabama), 140 U. S. 177, reversed; United States v. Poinier
(South Carolina), 140 U. S. 160, reversed; United States v.
.McDermott (Kentucky), 140 U. S. 151, reversed; United
States v. Jones (So. Alabama), 147 U. S. 672, reversed; United
States v. Fletcher (E. Arkansas), 1417 U. S. 664, reversed;
United States v. Faulkner (Mid. Tennessee), 145 U. S. 658,
reversed on stipulation ; United States v. Van Duzee (Nor.
Iowa), 140 U. S. 169, reversed; United States v. Julian (Mid.
Tennessee), 145 U. S. 659, reversed on stipulation; United
States v. Taylor (E. Tennessee), 147 U. S. 695, reversed;
United States v. Harmon (Maine), 147 U. S.. 268, affirmed;
United &ates v. Carter (E. Tennessee), 140 13. S. 702, reversed
.on
stipulation; United States v. Clough (W. Tennessee),
145
U. S. 658, dismissed on the government's motion; United
States v. Ewing (E. Tennessee), 140 U. S. 142, reversed;
United States v. Hall (N. Ohio), 147 U. S. 691, reversed;
United States v. Pitman (Rhode Island), 147 U. S. 669, affirmed; United States v. Fitch (W. Michigan), 145 U. S. 658,
dismissed on government's motion; United States v. Bashaw
(E. Missouri), 152 U. S. 436, reversed.
MR. JUSTiE

AIELAN,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The first question to be considered involves the jurisdiction
of this court to review the judgment below upon writ of error.
The United States contend that a judgment rendered in a
suit brought under the act of March 3, 1887, c. 359, entitled
"An act to provide for the bringing of suits against the government of the United States," and commonly known as the
Tucker Act, cannot be reexamined here except upon appeal.
24 Stat. 505. So much of that act as can have any bearing
upon this case is printed in the margin.'

I SEc. 1. That the Court of Claims shall have jurisdiction to hear and
determine the following matters:

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

The contention of the government as to the jurisdiction of
this court is not well founded. Congress did not intend that
First. All claims founded upon the Constitution of the United States, or
any law of Congress, except for pensions, or upon any regulation of an
Executive Department, or upon any contract expressed or implied, with the
government of "the United States, or for damages, liquidated or unliquidated, in cases not sounding in tort, in respect of which claims the party
would be entitled to redress against the United States either in a court of
law, equity, or admiralty if the United Stateg were suable: _Provided,however, That nothing in this section shall be construed as giving to either
of the courts herein mentioned jurisdiction to hear. and determine claims
growing out of the late civil war, and commonly known as " war claims,"
or to hear and determine other claims, which have heretofore been rejected,
or reported on adversely by any court, department, or commission authorized to hear and determine the same.
Second. All set-offs, counter-claims, claims for damages, whether liquidated or unliquidated, or other demands whatsoever on the part of the
government of the United States against any claimant against the government in said court: Provided, That no suit against the government of the
United States shall be allowed under this act unless the same shall have
been brought within six years after the right accrued for which the claim
is made.
SEC. 2. That the District Courts of the United States shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the Court of Claims as to all matters named in the
preceding section where the amount of the claim does not exceed one
thousand dollars, and the Circuit Courts of the United States shall have
sach concurrent jurisdiction in all cases where the amount of such claim
exceeds one thousand dollars and does not exceed ten thousand dollars.
All causes brought and tried under the provisions of this act shall be tried
by the court without a jury.
SEC. 3. That whenever any person shall present his petition to the Court
of Claims alleging that he is or has been indebted to the United States as
an officer or agent thereof, or by virtue of any contract therewith, or that
he is the guarantor, or surety, or personal representative of any officer, or
agent, or contractor so indebted, or that he, or the person for whom he is
such surety, guarantor, or personal representative has held any office or
agency under the United States, or entered into any contract therewith,
under which it may be or has been claimed that an indebtedness to the
United States has arisen and exists, and that lie or the person he represents
has applied to the proper Department of the Government requesting that
the account of such office, agency, or indebte~lness may be adjusted and
settled, and that three years have elapsed from the date of such application
and said account still remains unsettled and unadjusted, and that no suit
upon the same has been brought by the United States, said court shall, due
notice first being given to the head of said Department and to the Attorney,

CHASE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court..

cases brought under this act in a District or Circuit Court of
the United States, should be brought here by appeal only.
General of the United States, proceed to hear the parties and to ascertain
the amount, if any, due the United States on said account. The Attorney
General shall represent the United States at the hearing of said cause. The
court may postpone the saMe from time to time whenever justice shall require. The judgment of said court or of the Supreme Court of the United
States, to which an appeal shall lie, as in other cases, as to the amount due,
shall be binding and conclusive upon the parties. The payment of such
amount so found due by the court shall discharge such obligation. An
action shall accrue to the United States against such principal, or surety,
or representative to recover the amount so found due, which may be
brought at any time within three years after the final judgment of said
court. Unless suit shall be brought within said time, such claim and the
claim on the original indebtedness shall be forever barred.
SFC. 4. That the jurisdiction of the respective courts of the United States
proceeding under this act, including the right of exception and appeal, shall
be governed by the law now in force, in so far as the same is applicable
and not inconsistent with the provisions of this act; and the course of
procedure shall be in accordance with the established rules of said respective courts, and of such additions and modifications thereof as said courts
may adopt.
SEC. 5. That the plaintiff in any suit brought under the provisions of
the second section of this act shall file a petition, duly verified with the
clerk of the respective court having jurisdiction of the case, and in the
distriot where the plaintiff resides. Such petition shall set forth the full
name and residence of the plaintiff, the nature of his claim, and a succinct
statejnent of the facts upon which the claim is based, the money or any
other thing claimed, or the damages sought to be recovered and praying the
court for a judgment or decree upon the facts and law.
SEC. 6. That the plaintiff shall cause a copy of his petition filed under
the preceding section to be served upon the District Attorney of the United
States in the district wherein suit is br6uglit'and shall mail a copy of the
same, by registered letter, to the Attorney General of the United States, and
shall thereupon cause to be filed with the clerk of the court wherein suit is
instituted an affidavit of such service and the mailing- of such letter. It
shall be the duty of the District Attorney upon whom service of petition is
made as aforesaid to appear and defend the interests of the Government in
the suit, and within sixty days after the service of petition upon him, unless
the time should be extended by order of ihe court made In the case to file
a plea, answer, or demurrer .on the part of the Government, and to file a
notice of any counter-claim, set-off, claim for damages, or other demand or
defence whatsoever of the Government in the premises: Provided, That
should the District Attorney neglect or refuse to file the plea, answer,
demurrer, or defence, as required, the plaintiff may proceed with the case
VOL. CLv-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Throughout all the provisions relating to actions commenced
in those courts there is shown a purpose to preserve the disunder such rules as the court may adopt in the premises; but the plaintiff
shall not have judgment or decree for his claim, or any part thereof, unless
he shall establish the same by proof satisfactory to the court.
SEC. 7. That it shall be the duty of the court to cause a written opinion
to be filed, in the cause, setting forth the specific findings by the court of
the facts therein and the conclusions of the court upon all questions of law
involved in the case, and to render judgment thereon. If the suit be in
equity or admiralty, the court shall proceed with the same according to the
rules of such courts.
SEC. 8. That in the trial of any suit brought under any of the provisions
of this act, no person shall be excluded as a witness because he is a party
to or interested in said suit; and any plaintiff or party in interest may be
examined as a witness on the part of the Government.
Section ten hundred and seventy-nine of the Revised Statutes is hereby
repealed. The provisions of section ten hundred and eighty of the Revised
Statutes shall apply to cases under this act.
SEC. 9. That the plaintiff or the United States, in any suit brought under
the provisions of this act, shall have the same rights of appeal or writ of
error as are now reserved in the statutes of the United States in that
behalf made, and upon the conditions and limitations therein contained.
The modes of procedure in claiming and perfecting an appeal or writ of
error shall conform in all respects, and as near as may be, to the statutes
and rules of court governing appeals and writs of error in like causes.
SEC. 10. That when the findings of fact and the law applicable thereto
have been filed in any case as provided in section six of this act, and the
judgment or decree is adverse to the Government, it shall be the duty of
the District Attorney to transmit to the Attorney General of the United
States certified copies of all the papers filed in the cause, with a transcript
of the testimony taken, the written findings of the court, and his written
opinion as to the same; whereupon the Attorney General shall determine
and direct whether an appeal or writ of error shall be taken or not; ani
when so directed the District Attorney shall cause an appeal or writ of
error to be perfected in accordance with the terms of the statutes and rules
of practice governing the same; Provided, That no appeal or writ of error
shall be allowed after six months from the judgment or decree in such suit.
From the date of such final judgment or decree interest shall be computed
thereon, at the rate of four per centum per annum, until the time when an
appropriation is made for the payment of the judgment or decree.
SEC. 11. That the Attorney General shall report to Congress, and at the
beginning of each session of Congress, the suits under this act in which a
final judgment or decree has been rendered, giving the date of each,.and a
statement of the costs taxed in each case.
SEC. 16. That all laws and parts of laws inconsistent with this act are
'hereby, repealed.

CHASE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

tinction between cases at law, cases in equity, and cases in
admiralty. The phrases "judgment or decree," "right of exception or appeal," "equity or admiralty," "rights of appeal
or writs of error," and "appeal or writ of error," taken in
connection with the clause in the fourth section relating to
the jurisdiction of the respective courts of the United States
proceeding under the act and providing that "the course of
procedure shpll be in accordance with the established rules of
said respective courts, and of such additions and modifications
thereof as said courts may adopt;" with that part of section
seven which in terms refers to the distinction between cases
at law and cases in equity and admiralty, and directs that "if
the suit be in equity or admiralty the court shall proceed
with the same- according to the rules of such courts;" with
the express recognition in section nine, of the "same rights of
appeal or writs of error" in any suit brought under this act
as were reserved in the statutes of the United States in that
behalf at the date of the passage of the act; with the requirement, in the same section, that "the modes of procedure in
claiming and perfecting an appeal or writ of error shall conform in all respects, and as near as may be, to the statutes
and rules of court governing appeals and writs of error in like
causes;" and with the provision in section ten, making it the
duty of the District Attorney, when the Attorney General
shall determine "whether an appeal or writ of error shall be
taken or not" in cases in which " the judgment or decree"
shall be adverse to the government, to cause "an appeal or
writ of error to be perfected in accordance with the terms of
the statutes and rules of practice governing the same;" these
phrases, clauses, and provisions make it, we think, reasonably
clear that Congress intended that the final determination of
suits brought under this act in a District or Circuit Court of
the United States shall be reviewed here upon writ of error,
if the case be one at law, and upon appeal, if the case is one
cognizable in equity or in admiralty under the existing statutes regulating the jurisdiction of those courts.
But Congress, while recognizing the settled distinction between law, equity, and admiralty, did not intend that the

OCTOBER TERMI,

1894.

Opinion of the Court.

records of cases brought against the government under this
act should contain all that is required in suits instituted in the
courts of the United States under the general statutes regulating their jurisdiction and the modes of procedure therein.
Neither the mode of procedure in the Court of Claims, nor
the mode in which cases there determined may be brought
here for re~xamination, were changed by the act of March
3, 1887. But under that act, a judgment of a District or Circuit Court of the United States in an action at law brought
against the government, will be reexamined here only when
the record contains a specific finding of facts with the conclusions of law thereon. In such cases, this court will only
inquire whether the judgment below is supported by the facts
thus found. And, we think, it was also the purpose of Congress to require like specific findings or statements of fact and
conclusions of law in cases in equity and in admiralty brought
under that act in the District and Circuit Courts of the United
States, and to restrict our inquiry in such cases, as in actions
at law, to the sufficiency of the facts so found or stated to sup-port the final judgment.
For the reasons stated the motion to dismiss the writ of
error for want of jurisdiction in this .court to review, in that
mode, the final judgment of the court below is overruled.
Was the United States liable uppn the written contract of
lease which is the foundation of this action?
By the law in force when the lease sued on was executed,
it was made the duty of the Postmaster General "to establish
post offices." By section 3732 of the Revised Statutes it is
provided,, as did, substantially, the statutes in force when the
lease was made, that "no contract or purchase on behalf of
the United States shall be made unless the same is authorized
by law, or is under an appropriation adequate to its fulfilment,
except in the War and Navy Departments, for clothing, subsistence, forage, -uel, quarters, or transportation, which, however, shall not exceed the necessities of the current year."
Act of March .3, 1825, c. 61, § 1, 4 Stat. 102; Act of March
2, 1861, c. 8-, § 10, 12 Stat. 220.
Much stress is placed by counsel for the plaintiff upon the

CHASE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

clause making it the duty of the Postmaster General to
establish post offices; the contention being that the power
to establish a post office carries with it authority to lease
rooms or a building in which the postmaster may conduct the
business of his office. In support of this position Ware v.
United States, 4 Wail. 617, is cited. But that case does not
justify any such interpretation of the act of Congress. The
question there was as to the power of the Postmaster General
to discontinue a post office that had once been established by
him under the authority conferred by the act of 1825, 4 Stat.
102, "to establish post offices." This court, observing that
the power to discontinue post offices is incident to the power
to establish them, unless there was some provision in the acts
of Congress restraining its exercise, said: " Undoubtedly,
Congress might discontinue a post office which they had previously established by law, and it is difficult to see why the
Postmaster General may not do the same thing when acting
under an act of Congress, expressed in, the very words of the
Constitution from which Congress derives its power." Again:
"Power to establish post offices and post roads is conferred
upon Congress, but the policy of the government from the time
the general post office was established has been to delegate the
power to designate the places where the mail shall be received
and delivered to the Postmaster General." p. 632.
There was no issue in that case as to the extent of the
authority of the Postmaster General to bind the government
by contract for the payment of money or for the lease of a
building for a post office. That case did not call for any consideration of the general question, whether the words in the
statute, "to 'establish post offices," had the full meaning of
the same- words found in the section of the Constitution
enumerating the powers of Congress.
Nor is it necessary to determine all that may be done by
the Postmaster General under the power "to establish post
offices" conferred upon that officer; for those words are to
be interpreted in connection with the above statutary provision forbidding the making, -except in the War and -Navy
Departments, and in those departments only for certain

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

things and under specified conditions, of any contract or pur.
chase on behalf of the United States unless the same be authorized by law, or is under an appropriation adequate to its
fulfilment. There is no claim that the lease in question was
made under any appropriation whatever, much less one adequate to its fulfilment. So that the only inquiry is, whether
the contract of lease was ." authorized by law" within the
meaning of the statute relating to -contracts or purchases on
behalf of the government.
The counsel of the plaintiff contends that a contract of lease
on behalf of the United States is authorized by law if made
by the Postmaster General for the purpose of procuring rooms
or a building for a post office established by him. The same
argument would sustain a purchase by the Postmaster General, on behalf of the United States, of a building to be used
for a post office so established by that officer. We cannot
give our sanction to this interpretation of the statute. It
would give the Postmaster General much larger powers than
we believe Congress intended to give him. While the Postmaster General, under the power to establish post offices, may
designate the places, that is, the localities, at which the mails
are to be received, he cannot bind the United States by any
lease or purchase of a building to be used for the purposes
of a post office, unless the power to do so is derived from a
statute which either expressly or by necessary implication
authorizes him to make such lease or. purchase. The general
authority "to establish post offices" does not itself, or without more, necessarily imply authority to bind the United
States by a contract to lease or purchase a post-office building,
although an appropriation of money to pay for the rent of a
post-office building at a named pjace might give authority to
the Postmaster General to lease such building inthat locality
as he deemed proper for the service, always keeping within
the amount so appropriated. So also the power to lease a
building to be used as a post office may be implied from a
general appropriation of money to pay for rent of post offices
in any particular fiscal year or years.
We have considered the case in the light of the statutes in

LINFORD v. ELLISON.
Statement of the Case.

force when the lease of May 1, 1870, was executed. Shortly
after that date, by the act of July 12, 1S70, c. 251, § 7, 16 Stat.
251, it was provided that no department of the government
should expend, in any one year, any sum in excess of appropriationsmade by Congress for that fiscal year, or involve
the government in any contract for the future payment of
money in excess of such appropriations. And that provision
is reproduced in section 3679 of the Revised Statutes.
We are of opinion that the lease sued on was not authorized
by law, and, consequently, no action can be maintained thereon.
The judgment is
Affrmed.
LINFORD v. ELLISON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 90. Submitted November 22, 1594.-DeIded December 1, 1894.

A judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah against the tax
collector of a municipal corporation for fifty dollars, the value of property levied on by him for unpaid municipal taxes, rendered on the ground
that a municipal corporation, which is a small village but has extensive
limits, cannot tax farming lands for municipal purposes lying within the
corporate limits but outside of the platted portion of the city and so far
removed from the settled portion thereof that the owner would receive
no benefits from the municipal government, does not draw in question
the validity of the organic law of the Territory or the scope of the authority to legislate conferred upon the territoriallegislature by Congress;
and as the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, does not exceed the sum
of five thousand dollars, nor involve the validity of a patent, or copyright, or of a treaty, this court is without jurisdiction to review it.

TEris was an action brought by Ephraim P. Ellison in the
District Court of the Third Judicial District of the Territory
of Utah against James H. Linford, Jr.; to recover damages
for the conversion of a wagon belonging to plaintiff, which
had been levied oa by defendant; as tax collector of the city
of Kaysville, for unpaid municipal taxes. A jury was waived,
and the cause submitted to the court for trial upon an agreed
statement of facts. The court held the taxes invalid, and
gave judgment in favor of plaintiff for $50 and costs. Defendant prosecuted an appeal to the Supreme Court of the Terri-

