OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Counsel for Appellees.

that a conspiracy to injure, oppress, threaten, or intimidate
him in the free exercise or enjoyment of this right, or because
of his having exercised it, is punishable under section 5508 .of
the Revised Statutes.
According to the agreement of counsel, and in order that
the judgment of this court may appear in regular form upon
its records, leave is given to file the petitions. But, for the
reasons above stated, the
Writs of habeas corpus are denied.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE

FULLER

dissented.

LEM MOON SING v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM

THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 946.

Argued April 18, 19, 1895.

Decided May 27, 1895.

The power of Congress to exclude aliens altogether from the United States,
or to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which they may come to
this country, and to have its declared policy in that respect enforced
exclusively through executive officers without judicial intervention, having been settled by previous adjudications, it is now decided that a statute passed in execution of that power is applicable to an alien who has
acquired a commercial domicil within the United States, but who,
having voluntarily left the country, although for a temporary purpose,
claims the right under some law or treaty to regnter it.
Lau Ow Bew v. United States, 144 U. S. 47, distinguished from this case.
No opinion is expressed upon the question whether, under the facts stated
in the application for the writ of habeas copus, Lem Moon Sing was
entitled, of right, under some law or treaty to reenter the United States.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

iMr. Jfaxwell Evarts for appellant.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney General Dickinson for appellees.

LEM MOON SING v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
Lim Lung, on behalf of the appellant, Lein Moon Sing,
presented to the District Court of the United States for the
Northern District of California an application in writing for
a writ of habeas corpus, directed to one D. D. Stubbs, and to
the collector of the port of San Francisco, requiring them to
produce the body of the appellant and abide by such order as
the court might make in the premises.
The grounds set forth in the application for the writ were
substantially as follows:
The appellant was a person of the Chinese race, born in
China, and never naturalized in the United States.
At and before the passage of the general appropriation act
of Congress, approved August 18, 1894, he was a Chinese merchant having a permanent domicil in the United States at San
Francisco and lawfully engaged in that city in mercantile pursuits, and not otherwise. That domicil had never been surrendered or renounced by him.
On the 30th day of January, 1894, while conducting his business as a merchant at San Francisco, being a member of the
firm of Kee Sang Tong & Co., wholesale and retail druggists.
in that city, he went on a temporary visit to his native land,
with the intention of returning and of continuing his residence
in the United States, in the prosecution of that business. He
was so engaged for more than two years before his departure
for China, and during that time performed no manual labor
except as was necessary in the conduct of his business as a
druggist.
During his temporary absence in China the appropriation
act of August 18, 1894, was passed. That act contained these
provisions:
"Enforcement of the Chinese Exclusion Act: To
prevent
unlawful entry of Chinese into the United States, by the appointment of suitable officers to enforce the laws in relation
thereto, and for expenses of returning to China all Chinese
persons found to be unlawfully in the United States, including
the cost of imprisonment and actual expense of conveyance of

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Chinese persons to the frontier or seaboard for deportation,
and for enforcing the provisions of the act approved May fifth,
eighteen hundred and ninety-two, entitled 'An act to prohibit
the coming of Chinese persons into the United States,' fifty
thousand dollars.
"In every case where an alien is excluded from admission
into the United States under any law or treaty now existing or
hereafter made, the decision of the appropriate immigration
or custom officers, if adverse to the admission of such alien,
shall be final, unless reversed on appeal to the Secretary of
the Treasury." Act of August 18, 1894, c. 301, 28 Stat. 390.
The appellant returned to the United States, November 3,
1894, on the steamer Belgic, belonging to the Occidental and
Oriental Steamship Company, of which D. D. Stubbs was secretary and manager. Upon his arrival here he applied to
John I. Wise, collector of customs at San Francisco, to
be permitted to land and enter the United States on the
ground that he was formerly engaged in this country as a
merchant. Ile submitted to the collector the testimony of
two credible witnesses other than Chinese, showing that he
conducted business as a merchant here for one year previous
to his departure, as above stated, from the United States, and
that during that period he was not engaged in the performance
of any manual labor except such as was necessary in conducting his business as a merchant. His application to enter the
United States was denied, and consequently he was detained,
confined, and restrained of his liberty by Stubbs as secretary
and manager of the steamship company.
In addition to the above facts, the application for the writ
of habeas corpus alleged that Lem Moon Sing had not been
apprehended and was not detained by virtue of the judgment,
order, decree, or other judicial process of any court, or under
any writ or warrant, but under the authority alleged to have
been given to the collector of the port of San Francisco by
the above act of August 18, 1894; that Lem Moon Sing
was not at the date of the passage of that act nor for more
than one year prior to the date of his departure for China for
temporary purposes, and is not now, an alien excluded from

LEM MOON SING v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

admission into the United States under any law or treaty now
existing; and that said D. D. Stubbs and said John I. Wise,
collector of the port, are without jurisdiction to restrain the
said Lem Moon Sing of his liberty.
The petitioner also alleged that if Lem Moon Sing should
not be allowed to enter the United States and to resume his
residence and mercantile business therein, and be sent back to
China, he would sustain great and irreparable loss, and his
business be wholly destroyed, whereby he would be denied
"that equal right granted to him by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States, and by the treaties made and existing between the United States and the Chinese Empire, of
which he is a subject."
It was further alleged that the detention and restraint of
the liberty of Lem Moon Sing were without jurisdiction, void,
and unconstitutional, and " without due process of law and
against his rights under the Constitution and the laws of the
United States and the treaties made between the United States
of America and the Chinese Empire, and wrongfully and unlawfully under and by color of the authority of the United
States asserted and exercised by the said John 1I. Wise, collector of the port of San Francisco."
The writ of habeas corpus was denied by the court below
because in its judgment the application on its face showed that
Lem Moon Sing was detained and restrained of his liberty by
the collector of the port of San Francisco, under the act of
Congress approved August 18, 1894, and consequently that
jurisdiction over the petitioner was with the collector of the
port of San Francisco. From this judgment an appeal has
been prosecuted to this court.
The present case is, in principle, covered by the former
adjudications of this court.
In the Ch1inese _Eclusion Case, 130 U. S. 581, 603, this court
said: "That the government of the United States, through
the action of the legislative department, can exclude aliens
from its territory, is a proposition which we do not think open
to controversy. Jurisdiction over its own territory to that extent is an incident of every independent nation. It is a part of

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

its independence. If it could not exclude aliens it would be
to that extent subject to the control of another power." That
case involved the validity of the act of Congress of October 1,
1888, c. 1064, 25 Stat. 504, making it unlawful, from or after
that date, for any Chinese laborer who had theretofore been,
or was then or might become, a resident within the United
States, and had departed, or should depart from this country
before the passage of that act, "to return to, or remain in,
the United States." The same act annulled all certificates
of identity issued under the previous act of May 6, 1882, c.
120, 22 Stat. 58.
The case of Nishimura .ELciu v. United States, 142 U. S.
651, 653, 659, 660, arose under the act of March 3, 1891, c.
.551, 26 Stat. 1084, excluding from admission into the United
States, in accordance with acts then in force regulating immigration, (other than those concerning Chinese laborers,) all
idiots, insane persons, paupers or persons likely to become a
public charge, persons suffering from a loathsome or a dangerous contagious disease; persons who had been convicted of a
felony or other infamous crime or misdemeanor involving
moral turpitude, etc. That act made provision for the appointment, by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, of a superintendent of immigration, who
should be an officer of the Treasury, and to whom was committed, under the control and supervision of the Secretary
of the Treasury, the execution of the act. It was further
declared by that act that "all decisions made by the inspection officers or their assistants touching the right of any alien to
land, when adverse to such right, shall be final, unless appeal
be taken to the superintendent of immigration, whose action
shall be subject to review by the Secretary of the Treasury."
Nishimura Ekiu, a female subject of the Emperor of Japan,
was denied the right to land in the United States, and was
held in custody to be sent back to her country, as the statute
required in such cases. She sued out a writ of habeas corpus.
The Circuit Court of the United States confirmed the action
of the inspection officer and remanded the petitioner to his
,custody.

LEM MOON SING v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

This court, observing that, according to the accepted maxims of international law, every sovereign nation has the power,
inherent in sovereignty, and essential to self-preservation, to
forbid the entrance of foreigners within its. dominions, or to
admit them only in such cases and upon such conditions as
it may see fit to prescribe, said: "In the United States this
power is vested in the national government to which the Constitution has committed the entire control of international
relations, in peace as well as in war. It belongs to the political department of the government, and may be exercised
either through treaties made by the President and Senate, or
through statutes enacted by Congress, upon whom the Constitution has conferred power to regulate commerce with
foreign nations, including the entrance of ships, the importation of goods, and the bringing of persons into the ports of
the United States ; to establish a uniform rule of naturalization; to declare war, and to provide and maintain armies
and navies; and to make all laws which may be necessary
and proper for carrying into effect these powers and all other
powers vested by the Constitution in the government of the
United States or in any department or officer thereof." "The
supervision of the admission of aliens into the United States
may be entrusted by Congress either to the Department of
State, having the general management of foreign relations,
or to the Department of the Treasury, charged with the
enforcement of the laws regulating foreign commerce; and
Congress has often passed acts forbidding the immigration of
particular classes of foreigners, and has committed the execution of these acts to the Secretary of the Treasury, to collectors of customs, and to inspectors acting Under their authority."
Again: "An alien immigrant, prevented from landing by any
such officer claiming authority to do so under an act of Congress, and thereby restrained of his liberty, is doubtless entitled to a writ of habeas corpus to ascertain whether the
restraint is lawful." It was further said that Congress could,
if it saw fit, as in the statutes in question in United States v.
Jung A6 -Lung, 114 U. S. 621, authorize the courts to investigate and ascertain the facts on which the right to land

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

depends. "But, on the other hand," the court proceeded,
"the final determination of those facts may be entrusted by
Congress to executive officers; and in such a case, as in all
others, in which a statute gives a discretionary power to an
officer, to be exercised by him upon his own opinion of certain facts, he is made the sole and exclusive judge of the
existence of those facts, and no other tribunal, unless expressly
authorized by law to do so, is at liberty to reexamine or controvert the sufficiency of the evidence on which he acted " citing Martin v. Mott, 12 Wheat. 19, 31; Philadelphiac&
Trenton, Railroad v. Stimpeon, 14 Pet. 448, 458; Benson v.
LeMalbon, 127 U. S. 457; In re Oteiza, 136 U. S. 330. The
judgment was that the act of 1891 was constitutional; that
the inspector of immigration was duly appointed; that his
decision was within the authority conferred upon him by that
act; and as no appeal was taken to the superintendent of
immigration, that decision against the petitioner's right to
land in the United States was final and conclusive.
These questions were again elaborately examined in Fong
Yue Ting v. United Statem, 149 U. S.698, 713, 714, which arose
under the act of May 5, 1892, c. 60, 27 Stat. 25, prohibiting
the coming of Chinese persons into the United States. Those
were cases of Chinese laborers arrested and held by the marshal of the United States under that act, the sixth section of
which made it the duty of all Chinese laborers, within the
limits of the United States at the time of the passage of the
act, and who were entitled to remain in the United States,
to apply to the collector of internal revenue of their respective
districts, within one year after that time, for a certificate of
residence ; and any Chinese laborer, within the limits of the
United States, who should neglect, fail, or refuse to comply
with the provisions of that act, or who, after one year from
its passage, should be found within the jurisdiction of the
United States without such certificate of residence, should
be deemed and adjudged to be unlawfully within the United
States, and subject to be arrested by any United States
customs official, collector of internal revenue or his deputies,
United States marshal or his deputies, and taken before a

LEM MOON SING v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

United States judge, whose duty it was to order his deportation from the United States, unless he established clearly, to
the satisfaction of the judge, that by reason of accident, sickness, or other unavoidable cause he had been unable to secure
his certificate, and to the satisfaction of the court, and by at
least one credible white witness, that he was a resident of
the United States at the time of the passage of the act;
further, that if, upon the hearing it should appear that he
was so entitled to a certificate, it should be granted, upon
his paying the cost. If it appeared that the Chinaman had
secured a certificate that had been lost or destroyed, he was
to be detained and judgment suspended a reasonable time
to enable him to procure a duplicate from the officer granting
it. Any Chinese person, other.than a Chinese laborer, baving
a right to be and remain in the United States, and desiring
such certificate as evidence of such right, could apply for and
receive the same without charge.
The petitioners having assailed the validity of that section,
this court said : "In Nishimura Elciu's case, it was adjudged
that, although Congress might, if it saw fit, authorize the
courts to investigate and ascertain the facts upon which the
alien's right to land was made by the statutes to depend, yet
Congress might intrust the final determination of those facts
to an executive officer, and that, if it did so, his order was due
process of law, and no other tribunal, unless expressly authorized by law to do so, was at liberty to reexamine the evidence
on which he acted, or to controvert its sufficiency. 142 U. S.
600. The power to exclude aliens and the power to expel
them rest upon one foundation, are derived from one source,
are supported by the same reasons, and are in truth but parts
of one and the same power. The power of Congress, therefore, to expel, like the power to exclude aliens, or any specified
class of aliens, from the country, may be exercised entirely
through executive officers; or Congress may call in the aid of
the judiciary to ascertain any contested facts on which an
alien's right to be in the country has been made by Congress
to depend. Congress, having the right, as it may see fit, to
expel aliens of a particular class, or to permit them to remain,
VOL. CLVI-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

has undoubtedly the right to provide a system of registration
and identification of the members of that class within the

country, and to take all proper means to carry out the system
which it provides."
An effort is made to distinguish the case before us from those
cited by the circumstance that the petitioner, Lem Moon Sing,
had, before the passage of the act of 1894, lawfully acquired a
domicil as a merchant in the United States, and at the time of
his departure from this country, for the purpose merely of
visiting his native land, he was actually engaged in mercantile
pursuits at San Francisco. The right of domicil, thus acquired,
could not, it is earnestly insisted, be legally taken from him,
nor its exercise obstructed by any action of executive officers
of the government under whatever authority they proceeded ;
and that to give conclusive effect to the acts of such officers,
when enforcing the statute of 1894, would deny to the appellant that due process of law which is required by the Constitution of the United States.
We do not understand the appellant to deny - indeed, it
could not, consistently with the cases above cited, be denied
- that if the appellant had attempted, after the passage of
the act of 1894, for the first time, to enter the United States
for the purpose of engaging in mercantile pursuits, his right
to "admission into the United States under any law or treaty"
could be constitutionally committed for final determination to
subordinate immigration or other executive officers, with the
right of appeal (if the decision be adverse to him) only to
the Secretary of the Treasury, thereby excluding judicial interference so long as such officers acted within the authority
conferred upon them by Congress.
The contention is that while, generally speaking, immigration officers have jurisdiction under the statute to exclude an
alien who is not entitled under some statute or treaty to come
into the United States; yet if the alien is entitled, of right,
by some law or treaty, to enter this country, but is nevertheless excluded by such officers, the latter exceed their jurisdiction ; and their illegal action, if it results in restraining the
alien of his liberty, presents a judicial question for the decis-

LEM MOON SING v. UNITED

STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

ion of which the courts may intervene upon a writ of habeas

corpTus.
That view, if sustained, would bring into the courts every
case of an alien who claimed the right to come into the United
States under some law or treaty, but was prevented from
doing so by the executive branch of the government. This
would defeat the manifest purpose of Congress in committing
to subordinate immigration officers and to the Secretary of the
Treasury exclusive authority to determine whether a particular
alien seeking admission into this country belongs to the cla8s
entitled by some law or treaty to come into the country, or
to a class forbidden to enter the United States. Under that
interpretation of the act of 1894 the provision that the decision
of the appropriate immigration or customs officers should be
final, unless reversed on appeal to the Secretary of the Treasury, would be of no practical value.
The power of Congress to exclude aliens altogether from the
United States, or to prescribe the terms and conditions upon
which they may come to this country, and to have its declared
policy in that regard enforced exclusively through executive
officers, without judicial intervention, is settled by our previous
adjudications. Is a statute passed in execution of that power
any less applicable to an alien, who has acquired a commercial
domicil within the United States, but who, having voluntarily
left the country, although for a temporary purpose, claims the
right under some law or treaty to reenter it ? We think not.
The words of the statute are broad and include "every case " of
an alien, at least every Chinese alien, who, at the time of its
passage, is out of this country, no matter for what reason, and
seeks to come back. Ile is none the less an alien because of his
having a commercial domicil in this country. While he lawfully remains here he is entitled to the benefit of the guaranties
of life, liberty, and property, secured by the Constitution to all
persons, of whatever race, within the jurisdiction of the United
States. His personal rights when he is in this country and
such of his property as is here during his absence, are as fully
protected by the supreme law of the land as if he were a native
or naturalized citizen of the United States. But when he has

OCTOBEt

TERM, 1894.

Opinion of the Court.

voluntarily gone from the country, and is beyond its jurisdiction, being an alien, he cannot reenter the United States in
violation of the will of the government as expressed in enactments of the law-making power. He cannot, by reason merely
of his domicil in the United States for purposes of business,
demand that his claim to reenter this country by virtue of
some statute or treaty, shall be determined ultimately, if not
in the first instance, by the courts of the United States, rather
than exclusively and finally, in every instance, by executive
officers charged by an act of Congress with the duty of executing the will of the political department of the government
in respect of a matter wholly political in its character. ho
left the country subject to the exercise by Congress of every
power it possessed under the Constitution.
It is supposed that the claim of the appellant is sustained
by Lau Ow Bew v. Unied States, 144 U. S. 47. But that is
a mistake. That case arose under the sixth section of the act
of May 6, 1882, c. 126, 22 Stat. 58, as amended by the act
of July 5, 1884, c. 220, 23 Stat. 115. It presented the question whether that section applied t6 Chinese merchants, already domiciled in the United States, who, having left the
country for temporary purposes, animo revertendi, sought to
reenter it and resume their business. The question was raised
by writ of habeas corpus in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of California, which adjudged
that Lau Ow Bew was not entitled to enter the United States.
This court, upon certiorarito the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, reversed the judgment below, and
held that the statutes there in question did not apply to Lau Ow
Bew, and that he had the right to return to the United States.
Now the difference between that case and the present one is.
that, by the statutes in force when the former was decided,
the action of executive officers charged with the duty of enforcing the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882, as amended in
1884, could be reached and controlled by the courts when
necessary for the protection of rights given or secured by
some statute or treaty relating to Chinese. But, by the act,
of 1894, the decision of the appropriate immigration or cus-

LEM MOON SING v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

toms officers excluding an alien " from admission into the
United States under any law or treaty," is made final in every
case, unless, on appeal to the Secretary of the Treasury, it be
reversed.
Nor is the claim of appellant supported by In Pe PanPara,51 Fed. Rep. 275. That case was decided in 1892, and,
therefore, did not involve the act of 1894. So, also, was the
case of Gee Fyook Sing v. United States, 7 U. S. App. 27,
decided by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
The remedy of the appellant was by appeal to the Secretary
of the Treasury from the decision of his subordinate, and not
to the courts. If the act of 1894 had done nothing more than
appropriate money to enforce the Chinese Exclusion Act, the
courts would have been authorized to protect any right the
appellant had to enter the country, if he was of the class
entitled to admission under existing laws or treaties, and was
improperly excluded. But when Congress went further, and
declared that in every case of an alien excluded by the decision of the appropriate immigration or customs officers "from
admission into the United States under any law or treaty,"
such decision should be final, unless reversed by the Secretary
of the Treasury, the authority of the courts to review the decision of the executive. officers was taken away. United States
v. Rogers, 65 Fed. Rep. 787. If the act of 1894, thus construed,
takes away from the alien appellant any right given by previous laws or treaties to reenter the country, the authority of
Congress to do even that cannot be questioned, although it is
the duty of the courts not to construe an act of Congress as
modifying or annulling a treaty made with another nation,
unless its words clearly and plainly point to such a 'construction.
Chew Heong v. United States, 112 U. S. 536, 539, 559 ;
IHead Money Cases, 112 U. S. 580, 59 ; Wlitney v. Robertson, 124 U. S. 190, 195; Chinese Exelusion Case, 130 U. S.
581, 600. There is no room in the language of the act of 1894
to doubt that Congress intended that it should be interpreted
as we have done in this case.
To avoid misapprehension, it is proper to say that the court
does not now express any opinion upon the question whether,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

under the facts stated in the application for the writ of habeas
corpus, Lem Moon Sing was entitled, of right, under some law
or treaty, to reenter the United States. We mean only to
decide that that question has been constitutionally committed
by Congress to named officers of the executive department of
the government for final determination.
The judgmnent of the court below denying the aj)plieationj
for
the writ of habeas co)u8 is affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

dissented.

BABE BEARD v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR

TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

WESTERN DISTRICT
No. 842.

THE
OF

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

ARKANSAS.

Submitted March 13, 1895. - Decided May 27, 1895.

A man assailed on his own grounds, without provocation, by a person
armed with a deadly weapon and apparently seeking his life, is not
obliged to retreat, but may stand his ground and defend himself with
such means as are within his control; and so long as there is no intent
on his part to kill his antagonist, and no purpose of doing anything
beyond what is necessary to save his own life, is not guilty of murder
or manslaughter if death results to his antagonist from a blow given
him under such circumstances.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
M1r. John I. Rogers and Mr. Ira D. Oglesby for plaintiff in
error.
-Mr. Assistant Attorney General Dickinson for the United
States.
VIn. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error, a white man and not an Indian, was
indicted in the Circuit Court of the United States for the

