MATTINGLY v. N. W. VIRGINIA RAILROAD.

53

Syllabus.

means of distinguishing so much of the plaintiff's claim as was
in dispute from that part which was practically not disputed,
the court, without invading the province of the jury, might
permit the plaintiff, in lieu of a new trial, to take judgment
for the latter part only. -Bank of Kentucky v. Asdey, 2 Pet.
327; Wortlhern Pacific R ailroad v. Iterbert, 116 U. S. 642;
Ik(pkins v. Orr, 124 U. S. 510; Arkansas Co. v. lann, 130
U. S. 69 ; Kennon v. Gilmer, 131 U. S. 22, 29; Washington d
Georgetown R]ailroad v. }harmoq, 147 U. S. 571, 590.
This being so, the question whether the Circuit Court erred,
in excluding from its consideration the affidavits filed in support of the defendant's motion for a new trial, becomes unimportant; for their whole effect, if admitted, could only be to
impeach the plaintiff's testimony as to the amount of his
damages, whereas the court gave no effect to that testimony,
and proceeded wholly upon the testimony introduced by the
defendant.

Judygment afirmed.
MATTINGLY v. NORTHWESTERN VIRGINIA
RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM1 THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 140.

Submitted March 14, 1595. -Decided

April 15, 1895.

The petition for removal in this case was insufficient because it did not
show of what State the plaintiff was a citizen at the time of the commencement of the action.
The appeal in this case having been taken prior to the passage of the act
of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, is not governed by that act, althouh
the citation was not signed till April 14, 1891, and not served until
April 17.
Neither signing nor service of citation is jurisdictional.
When the record fails to affirmatively show jurisdiction, this court must
take notice of the defect.
As this case was improperly removed from the state court, this court
reverses the decree, remands the cause with direction to remand it to
the state court, and subjects the party on whose petition the case was
removed to costs in this and the Circuit Court.

OCTOBER TERMT, 1894.
Statement of the Case.
THIS was a bill in equity filed by the decedent, William H.
Mattingly, against the Northwestern Virginia Railroad Coinpany, the Parkersburg Branch Railroad Company and the
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, in the Circuit Court
for the county of Wood, State of West Virginia. The bill
alleged the execution of two deeds of trust or mortgages by
the Northwestern Virginia Railroad Company on all its property, present and after acquired, bearing date March 21, 1853,
the first running to the city of Baltimore to secure the payment of $1,500,000 of twenty-year bonds, guaranteed by the
city; and the second to the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
Company to secure the payment of $1,000,000 twenty-year
bonds, guaranteed by the last-named company; and that, after
the execution of a third mortgage, the mayor and city council of Balimore conveyed and assigned all the rights of the
city in the first mortgage to the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
Company. The bill further averred that a third mortgage was
given by the Northwestern Virginia Railroad Company January 1, 1S55, to one James Cook to secure certificates of loan and
indebtedness with coupons attached, not exceeding two million
dollars, and that the complainant was the owner and had in his
possession ten of said third mortgage bonds which were for the
sum of $500 each, with coupons attached of $15 each, payable
semi-annually; that there was then due and unpaid on each of
the bonds eighteen coupons of $15 each, making due on each
bond $270 and a total sum of $2700. It was further alleged that
on February 15, 1865, the property of every kind and description belonging to the Northwestern Virginia Railroad Company was sold by the mayor and city council of Baltimore at
auction under the first mortgage, and conveyed, April 3, 1865,
to the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company by the name
of the Parkersburg Branch Railroad Company, and that, for
reasons assigned, said sale was null and void, and the conveyance passed no title, and should be cancelled and annulled. It
was also averred that December 21, 1857, the Northwestern
Virginia Railroad Comparny gave to James Cook a deed of
trust conveying certain debts due to it, and also certain specified parcels of real estate in Wood and other counties, to secure

MATTINGLY v. N. W. VIRGINIA RAILROAD.

55

Statement of the Case.

a certain indebtedness, with power of sale in the trustee for
payment of the indebtedness; and that on March 24, 1865,
James Cook, trustee, conveyed the lots of land specified in this
deed to the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company as purchaser at a sale thereunder, which transaction complainant
charged was void, and, ifvalid, that the vendee took the real
estate subject to the prior mortgage. The bill prayed that the
conveyance by Cook to the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
Company of March 24, 1865, and the conveyance by the
mayor and city council of Baltimore to the company of
April 3, 1865, might both be set aside, and that the foreclosure of the third mortgage might be decreed and a sale of
all the property of the Northwestern Virginia Railroad
Company and the distribution of the proceeds of the sale
as equity might require.
The answer of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company
was filed September 7, 1870, and insisted upon the validity
of all the mortgages and deeds of trust and sales thereunder,
and denied that complainant was entitled to any relief. On
January 23, 1879, the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company
filed its petition in the state court for the removal of the
cause to the Circuit Court of the United States, and therein
alleged that petitioner, "the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
Company, a corporation created and existing under and by
virtue of the laws of the State of Maryland, respectfully shows
that it is one of the defendants and the principal one in the
foregoing suit, and that the same was commenced in the year
186- by said plaintiff in the said court; that your petitioner
was at the time of bringing the said suit and still is such corporation and, as such, a citizen of the State of Maryland and a
resident thereof. Your petitioner further shows that there
is and was at the time said suit was brought a controversy
therein between your petitioner arid the said plaintiff, William
1-. Mattingly, who is a citizen of the State of West Virginia
and resident thereof."
The state court accepted the bond tendered on removal
and ordered that all further proceedings in the cause be stayed,
and that the court should proceed no further therein, where-

OCTOBER TERI,

1894.

Opinion of the Court.

upon a transcript of the record was filed in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of West Virginia, at
Parkersburg, on February 11, 1879. The cause was there heard
and decree was rendered July 10, 1889, dismissing the bill for
want of equity, with costs, whereupon, on January 2, 1891,
the complainant prayed an appeal to this court, which was
allowed on complainant giving bond, which appeal bond was
filed January 7, 1891, and duly approved on January 13, 1891.
Citation was signed April 14, and service accepted April 17,
1891. A motion was made by the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company in this court to dismiss the appeal for want
of jurisdiction, because the value of the matter in dispute did
not exceed five thousand dollars exclusive of costs, and the
cause was submitted on that motion and on briefs on both
sides.
Mr. 1. -. Cole for appellant.
.Mr. John A. Itutcldnson for appellee.
IR. CHIEF JUSTIcE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

The petition for removal was insufficient, as has been
repeatedly determined, because it does not show of what State
the plaintiff was a citizen at the time of the commencement
of the action. Stevens v. Nichols, 130 U. S. 230 ; Jackson
v. Allen, 132 U. S. 27; La Confiance Compagnie v. flall,
137 U. S. 61; K-ellan? v. K[eith, 144 U. S. 568.
The final decree was entered July 10, 1889, and the appeal
allowed January 2, 1891, and bond was given and filed in
accordance with the order of allowance and approved January
13, 1891. The appeal having thus been taken prior to the
passage of the act of March 3, 1891, is not governed by that
act. It is true that the citation was not signed until April 14,
1891, and not served until the seventeenth of the month, but
neither the signing nor the service of the citation was jurisdictional, its only office being to give notice to the appellees.
Jacobs v. George, 150 U. S. 415.

MATTINGLY v. N. W. VIRGINIA RAILEOAD.

57

Opinion of the Court.

By the act of February 25, 1889, c. 236, 25 Stat. 693, it was
provided " that in all cases where a final judgment or decree
shall be rendered in the Circuit Court of the United States in
which there shall have been a question involving the jurisdiction of the court, the party against whom the judgment or
decree is rendered shall be entitled to an appeal or writ of
error to the Supreme Court of the United States to review
said judgment or decree without reference to the amount of
the same ; but in cases where the decree or judgment does not
exceed the sum of five thousand dollars the Supreme Court
shall not review any question raised upon the record except
such question of jurisdiction." Although it does not appear
that the question of jurisdiction was raised in the court below
by any plea or motion, yet as the record failed to affirmatively
show jurisdiction, this court must take notice of the defect.
Chapman v. Barney, 129 U. S. 677; Denny v. Pironi, 141
U. S. 121; Roherts v. Lewis, 144 U. S. 653 ; Northern Pccifc
R. R. Co. v. Walker, 148 U. S.391.
If the question of jurisdiction had been raised, the cause
might have been brought to this court under the act of
February 25, 1889, without reference to the amount in
controversy, and as it is apparent upon the record that
jurisdiction was lacking we cannot dismiss the case upon
the ground that the amount involved was less than the
jurisdictional sum, even if we were of opinion that such were
the fact, for although the question was not raised, it was
necessarily involved.
The result is that the decree must be
Reversed and the cause remanded to the Circuit Court
with a direction to remand it to the state court, the
costs in this and the Circuit Court to be paid by the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Copany, tpon whose petition
the case was removed.

