OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

or that no damage had in fact been sustained by placing the
papers upon record. We are not now concerned with the
inquiry whether the instructions of the court were correct or
not. We look to them simply to see what questions were
submitted to the jury, and if they left it open to the jury to
find for the defendant upon either of the two propositions,
and the verdict does not specify upon which the jury acted,
there can be no certainty that they found upon one rather
than the other. The principal contention, therefore, of the
plaintiff fails.
This practically disposes of the case, for the testimony
leaves it doubtful whether there was any contract between
the parties. Obviously the agreement signed by Henry as
agent was not within the scope of the authority given.
Authority to sell for $5000, one-half cash, is not satisfied by
an agreement to sell for $5000, $200 cash, $2300 in three
weeks, and the balance on time. Further, the agreement was
not in fact for $5000, but only $4950, the agent calling it
$5000, and claiming only $100 as his commission instead of
$150. Whether the defendant afterwards ratified his agent's
action is a matter in respect to which the testimony is, as we
have stated, conflicting. And where the existence of a contract is a matter of doubt equity will not, as a rule, decree
specific performance, especially in a case like this where, as
appears, the property was rapidly rising in value.
We see no error in the conclusions of the Circuit Court, and
its decree is, therefore,
Affirmed.

EPISCOPAL CITY MISSION v. BROWN.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 250.

Submitted April 4, 1S95. -Decided

May 20, 1895.

M., after mortgaging lots in Boston to the Episcopal Mission, conveyed

them to the wife of B. with a clause in the deed that she thereby assumed

EPISCOPAL CITY MISSION v. BROWN.
Statement of the Case.
and agreed to pay the mortgages, and B. gave M. his bond to ensure hia
wife's performance of her agreement. B. and wife about the same
time conveyed to M. parcels of land in Chicago subject to mortgages,
which M. assumed. The mortgages on the Boston lots not being paid,
the mortgagee foreclosed them. They were sold for sums less than the
amounts dcue on the mortgages. M. assigned to the mortgagee the bond
of B., and a suit in equity was begun in the name of the assignee and
of M. against B. and his wife, seeking a decree condemning the latter to
pay the debt. The wife answered denying any knowledge of the transaction, which she averred took place without her knowledge or consent,
and the answer of B. set up a nonperformance by M. of his agreement to
.assume and pay the mortgages on the Chicago property, whereby B. had
been compelled to pay large sums of money. Held,
(1) That the mortgagee had only the rights of M. and was subject to all
rights of set-off between M. and B.;
(2) That the proof left no doubt that the deed to the wife of B. was
made without her knowledge and that she was not a party to it;
(3) That in whatever aspect it was viewed the assignee of M. could
not recover.
ON March 1, 1877, George W. Meserve mortgaged to the
Episcopal City Mission, a Massachusetts corporation, certain
lots in the city of Boston, which were designated as "lots 3 and
4." The mortgages were for the sum of $19,500 on each lot.
On the same day Meserve conveyed these lots to Lucy T.
Brown, the wife of John B. Brown. The consideration of
the conveyance was $30,000, " to me paid by said Lucy T.
Brown, wife of John B. Brown." After referring to the
mortgages above mentioned, the deed contained these words:
"Which mortgages, with all interest thereon, the said Lucy T.
Brown hereby assumes and agrees to pay, and to protect and
save harmless said grantor therefrom." On March 19, 1877,
the following bond was executed by John B. Brown:
"Know all men by these presents, that I, John B. Brown,
am holden and stand firmly bound unto George W. Meserve
in the sum of ten thousand dollars, to the payment of which
to the said Meserve or his executors, administrators, or assigns
I hereby bind myself, my heirs, executors, and administrators.
"The condition of the obligation is such, that whereas the
said George W. Meserve did, by deeds dated March 1, 1877,
convey unto Lucy T. Brown two separate estates on Purchase
Street, Boston, Mass., each estate being subject to a mortgage

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

of $19,500, at six and one-half per cent interest, to the Episcopal City Mission, of even date with said deeds, which said
mortgage and interest thereon the said Lucy T. Brown
assumed and agreed to pay and hold the said Meserve harmless therefrom :
"Now, therefore, if the said Lucy T. Brown shall perform
the obligations of said deeds as therein expressed, and save
the said Meserve harmless, then this obligation shall be void,
otherwise it shall be and remain in full force and virtue, only
to the extent, however, that the said Meserve suffers harm."
On the 14th day of March, 1877, John B. Brown and Lucy
T. Brown deeded to Meserve certain parcels of land situated
in the city of Chicago. It was stated that the deed was executed for "one dollar and for other good and valuable considerations," the receipt whereof was acknowledged by the
sellers. The property conveyed was described as encumbered
by various mortgages amounting in principal to $12,225.70,
subject to a credit of $2680, leaving a balance in principal of
$9545.70, which, with the interest due, made the amount of
the assumption taken by Meserve exceed ten thousand dollars.
On March 1, 1884, the Boston property was sold to pay the
mortgage debt, and was bought in by the Episcopal City Mission, which, after applying the price to the debt, stated that
there was a deficiency on one lot of $10,074.71, and on the other
of $10,574.71. In February, 1886, Meserve assigned to the
Mission "all claims, demands, or rights of action, of whatever
sort or kind in law or equity, which I may have against John
B. Brown, formerly of Boston, and Lucy T. Brown, wife of
the said John B. Brown." On March 18, 1887, Meserve specially assigned to the same corporation all his right, title, and
interest in and to the bond given to him by John B. Brown
as above mentioned.
In July, 1890, the Episcopal City Mission and George W.
Meserve brought their bill against Lucy T. Brown and John
B. Brown in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois. They set out the mortgages
given by Meserve to the Episcopal City Mission; the sale
of the mortgaged property by Meserve to Mrs. Brown; the

EPISCOPAL CITY MISSION v. BROWN.
Statement of the Case.

assumption by her of the mortgage debt; the bond given
to Meserve by Brown; the foreclosure proceedings; and
the amount of the indebtedness remaining after crediting
the price as above stated. The bill averred that repeated
demands had been made upon Brown and his wife to pay the
balance of the mortgage debt; that they had refused to
do so, and that the Browns pretended that Meserve was
indebted to John 3. Brown for a larger amount than that
which he owed Meserve ; that this fact entitled him to a setoff; and that, in fact, he owed Meserve nothing. The bill
further charged the financial irresponsibility of Meserve, and
his inability to pay the remainder of the debt. Complainants
prayed that the corporation might be subrogated to the rights
of Meserve against Brown and his wife, and that a decree
might be passed condemning the latter to pay the debt.
Mrs. Brown answered by denying any liability. She averred
that she had been no party to the purchase of Meserve's
Boston property, and had done nothing whatever in the
way of acceptance or ratification in connection with the
transaction; that some time after the purchase she was informed by her husband that her name had been used in
Meserve's deed, for his benefit, and that she never at any
time knew the contents of the deeds or the assumptions
therein purported to have been taken by her. She averred
her belief that the deeds were made in her name in consequence of an agreement between her husband and Meserve,
by which her husband undertook to convey to Meserve
certain property in Chicago, and Mleserve was to assume the
incumbrances thereon to the discharge of her husband, while
Meserve was to deed to him the property in Boston, and
he was to assume all incumnbrances resting upon it. She
also averred that Meserve had failed to carry out his obligations by discharging the debt assumed by him, and that,
in consequence of this, her husband had been compelled to
pay the same, and had a claim against Meserve exceeding
the amount of any demand which the latter might have
upon him. She prayed that if she should be held liable for
the Boston transaction, she be allowed, by way of set-off,
VOL. cLVI-15

OCTOBER

TERM, 1894.

Statement of the Case.

credit for the amount of the obligations under which Meserve
rested in connection with the Chicago property. The answer
of Brown also averred that the deed had been taken in the
name of Mrs. Brown without her knowledge or consent,
and without her being in any way a party to the contracts;
that the sale of the Boston property was the result of an
agreement between himself and Meserve, by which they
bound themselves to exchange property in Chicago belonging
to Brown for the property in Boston belonging to Meserve;
that by the agreement between them the deed for the Boston
property was made in the name of Mrs. Brown for Brown's
convenience, and that it was done with the ftall assent of
Meserve, it being understood between them that Brown's
liability resulting from the sale of the Boston property should
be $10,000 evidenced by the bond which was the equivalent
of the obligation, to be assurned by Meserve in favor of
Brown in consequence of the transfer to be made to Meserve,
of the Chicago property, the agreement being that each
party should mutually assume the risk beyond these obligations. The answer further set out that in pursuance of
their agreement Brown's bond was given for $10,000 to
Meserve, and the sale of the Chicago property was made to
Meserve, who assumed the incumbrances upon it;. that Meserve
had failed to carry out his assumption of the Chicago incumbrances, and that Brown had been compelled to expend in
consequence more than twenty thousand dollars, and asserted
that Brown, therefore, was released from all claim on the
bond.
After taking much testimony the complainants filed an
amended bill) which again stated the agreement between
Meserve and Brown, recited the sales of the Chicago and Boston property; the giving of the bond by Brown; the default
in the payment of the mortgage on the Boston property, and
the sale thereof, and the deficiency in the amount realized.
It also averred the defences set up by Mrs. Brown, and her
denial of responsibility under the assumptions in the Boston
sales. It averred that Brown's conduct in making his wife a
party to the deed was fraudulent, and denied his right to set

EPISCOPAL CITY MISSION v. BROWN.
Opinion of the Court.

off any indebtedness to him oil the part of Meserve against
the Episcopal City Mission. It prayed for a decree subrogating the Mission to the rights of Meserve against Brown and
wife. To this amended bill Mrs. Brown answered by practically reiterating her former defences. Brown answered also,
setting up substantially the same defence which he had advanced before, and further specially denying that any fraud
had been practised on Meserve in substituting the name of his
wife for his own, and averring that, on the contrary, her name
had been used as "a straw grantee" with the full knowledge
of Meserve, and that his bond.of $10,000 had been given by
him to evidence the extent of his obligation, and that this was
a part of the contract between the parties.
The decree below rejected the claim of the complainants.
Episcopal City Mission v. Brown, 43 Fed. Rep. 834.
Mr. George .Burry for appellants.
.Mr. Clarles Ml1. Osborn and MJir. Samuel A. ]ynde for
appellees.
Mn[R. JUSTICE

WHITE,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Whatever be the obligations created by the assumptions
contained in the deeds to Mrs. Brown, and the bond which
was furnished by Brown, it is clear that the Mission has only
the rights of Meserve, and therefore can assert only such cause
of action, legal or equitable, as Meserve may possess. Kelley v.
Ashford, 133 U. S. 610; Willard v. Wood, 135 U. S. 309. The
corporation being thus limited to the rights which it takes
from Ivleserve, is clearly subject to all set-offs existing between Meserve and Brown. The proof leaves no doubt that
the deed to Mrs. Brown was made without her consent, and
that she was in no way a party thereto, either originally or by
ratification. Indeed, the court below, in its opinion, states
that it was conceded, in that forum, that there was no case
against Mrs. Brown, and we do not understand that it is seriously contended here that the record shows any foundation
for recovery against her. The only point really at issue is

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

whether Brown is liable for the whole amount of the mortgages resting upon the Boston property, or whether his liability is limited to the amount in his bond. The proof shows
that prior to the making of the deeds of the Boston property
to Mrs. Brown there was an understanding between Brown
and Meserve that the deeds should be made to the former,
and that the insertion of the name of Mrs. Brown was subsequently agreed on between the parties.
It is urged that, inasmuch as Brown had no authority to use
his wife's name, he is liable for the whole debt, either as a
trustee, or in consequence of his having acted as agent for his
wife without authority. These contentions are not supported
by the record. The proof shows that the substitution of Mrs.
Brown for her husband, as the purchaser, was made with "the
full consent and knowledge of Meserve, and that this arrangement was carried out by both parties with full knowledge
of all its consequences. By these understandings Meserve
on the one hand was to buy from Brown property situated
in Chicago and assume the incumbrances thereon- these
amounting to about $10,000; and Brown on the other hand
was to purchase the Boston property from Meserve and to
assume a.personal responsibility for a sum equal to the amount
which Meserve had assumed in regard to the Chicago property.
In other words, the contracts practically amounted to an exchange of the Chicago property for the Boston property, each
party relying upon the property itself as the means of discharging the debt except for the sum of $10,000, for which each
respectively assumed personal responsibility to the other.
The contract having been made upon this basis and for this
purpose, and the use of the name of the wife being the result of
an agreement between the parties, the contention of the complainants is reduced to the assertion that the contract must be
annulled because the parties agreed to make it, and because
its enforcement would bring about the very ends which they
intended should follow. The conclusion which we thus reach
upon the facts coincides with that of the court below. We
have omitted for the sake of brevity quotations from the testimony, but the evidence of Meserve himself is so conclusive in

EPISCOPAL CITY MISSION v. BROWN.
Opinion of the Court.

regard to the intention of the parties in making their contracts
that we excerpt briefly from it at this point:
"Q. Can't you recall to your mind any reasons or circumstances leading to the taking of that bond from Mr. Brown ?
A. Yes; it was to hold me against a possible loss on those
notes.
"Q. Can you recall any of the circumstances or reasons
which led to the fixing of the amount of that bond ? A. Well,
in my own mind it seems probable.
"(Objected to.)
"Q. Will you state what those facts and circumstances were?
"(Objected to.)
"A. To make Mr. Brown's liability equal to my own.
I had assumed about $10,000 in Chicago. My feeling was
that he had assumed $39,000 there, and there could not possibly be a loss to that extent, if any. I did not feel that there
would be any. I recollect it now as a sort of balance between
us in our liabilities.
"M-n. Bunny. All this is objected to.
"Q. As a matter of fact it was not equal to the difference,
was it?
"(Objected to as leading and incompetent.)
"A. I knew my mortgages to be well-secured mercantile
property that could not depreciate to any great extent; his
was secured by vacant land.
"Q. Why did you take any bond at all, then ? A. Because
I was deeding to a straw grantee, to somebody that 1 did not
know.
"Q. Well, why didn't you put in the bond the whole amount
of the difference, at any rate ? A. Because I knew there could
be no possible way of making my security worthless by any
handling it in three years; there could be no way; the property was insured, and the land was there, which had cost
almost the amount of the notes. Iad the buildings burned
down, the land, with $10,000, would have been security for
my note.
" Q. Did you inquire into the solvency of Mr. Brown ? A. I
did not.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

"Q, Did you inquire into the solvency of Mrs. Browii?
A. No.

"Q. Did you make any inquiries in relation to her? A. No.
Mr. Brown's broker recommended him to be a business man
who would be likely to take care of his property, and I regarded him as such.
"Q. Mr. Meserve, did you perform your contract in reference
to protecting Mr. Brown against the indebtedness which you
assumed?
"Mu. BurRY. All this subject is objected to.
"A. No, sir.
"Q. Mr. Meserve, have you any pecuniary interests in the
prosecution of this suit? A. Yes.
"Q. What is that interest? A. To furnish an offset for
the suits he has against me, helping the matter to a settlement.
"Q. Have you ever paid anything on account of any of
these offsets? A. No, sir.
"Q. When did you commence the prosecution of this suit?
A. I don't know.
"Q. Did you ever employ any attorney to commence this
suit. A. No, sir.
"Q. Have you ever paid anything or are you liable for
anything by which you would suffer damage by reason of any
failure of Mr. Brown to pay the indebtedness which is alleged
to be due to the Episcopal City Mission under those mortgages?
"Mu. BuRRY. Objected to as calling for a legal conclusion.
"A. I have paid nothing.
"Q. I-ave you made an arrangement with the Episcopal
City Mission by which they have substituted any liability on
your part for the supposed liability against Mr. and Mrs.
Brown or any arrangement in relation to that matter?
'(Objected to as calling for a legal conclusion.)
"A. I gave the authority to bring this suit with the understanding that it would relieve me of liability.
"Q. On those mortgages ? A. Yes."
This testimony of Meserve makes it clear that lie has paid

EPISCOPAL CITY MISSION v. BROWN.
Opinion of the Court.

nothing on account of the mortgage on the Boston property
which Brown, to the extent of his bond, undertook to discharge. The record makes it equally clear that Meserve has
failed to carry out his assumption, in favor of Brown, of the
mortgages on the Chicago property. In order to pay these
mortgages assumed by Meserve, Brown has disbursed, as
found by the lower court, the sum of $9122.63, leaving a considerable portion of the debt unpaid, and that some arrangement has been made by Brown with a third party looking to
the discharge of this balance. It is insisted here that in discharging a portion of the debt Brown did not pay out in actual
money the sum which he claims as an offset, but that part of
his payments were made in securities which he has charged at
their face value, while they would not bring that amount in
the market, and it is urged that only the market value of these
securities should be allowed him by way of set-off. It is also
asserted that the interest which he has charged on his disbursements is excessive; and further, that inasmuch as the
arrangement which he made for the payment of the balance
of the debt did not involve the expenditure of any money on
his part, he cannot set off that balance. All these arguments
rest logically upon the proposition that Brown is only entitled
to compensate against Meserve his actual disbursements made
in the payment of the debt which Meserve assumed. We do
not think it necessary to decide whether this position be sound
or unsound. If it applies to Brown, it must apply with equal
force to Meserve. As we have stated, it was intended by
these parties that the obligations of each to the other should
be correlative, and hence the contract resulting from the
assumption by Meserve is as binding on him as is the assumption evidenced by the bond of Brown.
Now, if Brown be only entitled to set off as against Meserve
the sum of money expended by him in paying the mortgages
which Meserve assumed, it is clear that Meserve can only
recover from Brown the sums actually disbursed by him in
paying the mortgaoes which Brown assumed. This being so,
as Meserve has paid nothing he can recover nothing, and there
is an end of the case. If, on the other hand, the parties were

OCTOBER TERIM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

each entitled to enforce as against the other the sum of their
respective obligations, without reference to the amounts disbursed by them in the discharge of those obligations, then, as
the obligations assumed by Meserve towards Brown are equal
if they (1o not exceed the amount of the bond given by Brown,
the case is also at an end.
Judgment aflirmed.

WRIGHT AND WADE v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

EASTERN
No. 766.

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

Submitted December 10, 1894. -Decided

May 20, 1895.

On proof of the loss of the written authority issued by a marshal to a
deputy marshal whom he had appointed, parol evidence is admissible to
show the facts of the appointment and of the services of the deputy.
One acting as a de facto deputy by authority of the marshal comes within
the provisions of the act of June 9, 1888, c. 382, 25 Stat. 178, " for the
protection of the officials of the United States in the Indian Territory."
It is the obvious purpose of the act not only to bring within the jurisdiction
of the United States those who commit crimes against certain persons
therein enumerated, when engaged in the performance of their duties,
but also to bring within the same jurisdiction those committing offences

against such officials after they have ceased to perform their duties.

ON April 7, 1894, the Grand Jury of the United States

Circuit Court of the Fifth Circuit, Eastern District of TexaS,
presented an indictment against Sephus Wright and Thomas
Wade, late of the Choctaw Nation, and of Atoka County,
Indian Territory. The indictment charged that these parties
on January 9, 1894, "in Atoka County, in the Choctaw
Nation, in the Indian Territory, the same being annexed to
and constituting a part of the said fifth circuit, and annexed
to and constituting part of the Eastern District of Texas, for
judicial purposes, and being within the jurisdiction of this
court, did unlawfully, fraudulently, and feloniously, and with
their malice aforethought," etc., "murder one Mike Peter,"

