WHITNEY v. TAYLOR
Statement of the Case.

WHITNEY v. TAYLOR.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF TIE

UNITED STATES FOi

TIE

NORTIIERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 278. Argued April 10, 1895. - Decided April 29, 1895.
In May, 1854, J. settled on a quarter section of public land in California,
which had not been then offered for public sale, and improved it.
Before May, 1857, the government survey had been made and filed,
showing the tract to be agricultural land, not swamp or mineral, and
not embraced within any reservation. In May, 1857, J. duly declared
his intention to claim it as a preemption right under the act of March
3, 1853, c. 145, 10 Stat. 244, and paid the fees required by law, and the
filing of this statement was duly noted in the proper government
record. J. occupied the tract until about 1859, when he left for England, and never returned. The land was found to be within the
granted limits of the grant to the Central Pacific Railroad Company,
by the act of July 1, 1862, c. 120, 12 Stat. 489. That company filed
its map of definite location March 26, 1864, and fully constructed its
road by July 10, 1868. It demanded this tract and tie Land Office
denied the claim. In 1885 the prebmption entry of J. was cancelled.
On August 28, 1888, T. made entry of the premises under the homestead laws of the United States, and subsequently commuted such
entry, made his final proofs, paid the sun of $400, took the government receipt therefor, and entered into possession. field.
(1) That the tract being subject to the pre6nption claim of J. at the
time when the grant to the railrqad company took effect, was
excepted from the operation of that grant;
(2) That after the cancellation of that entry it remained part of the
public domain, and, at the time of the homestead entry of T.
was subject to such entry.

THE controversy in this case is in respect to the title to the
southeast quarter of section 33, township 12 north, range 7
east, Mount Diablo meridian, in the State of California. The
land is within the granted limits of the Central Pacific Railroad Company, Act of July 1, 1862, C. 120, 12 Stat. 489, and
the plaintiff claims under and by virtue of mesne conveyances
from that company. The company filed its map of definite
location on March 26, 1864, and fully constructed its road by

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

the 10th of July, 1868. It demanded, but never received a
patent.
The title of the defendant rests on the following facts: On
May 28, 1857, one Henry I. Jones, having paid the fees required by lawin such cases, filed his preomption declaratory
statement in the land office having jurisdiction over the premises, which declaratory statement was in the words and figures following:
"I, Henry I-. Jones, of Placer County, being an American
citizen, over the age of twenty-one years, and a single man,
have, on the 16th day of January, 1854, settled and improved
the southeast quarter of section No. thirty-three, 33, of township No. twelve north, 12 N., of range No. seven east, 7 E.,
Mt. Diablo meridian, in the district of lands subject to sale at
the land office at Marysville, California, containing one hundred and sixty acres, which land has not yet been offered at
public sale, and thus rendered subject to private entry; and I
do hereby declare my intention to claim the said tract of land
as a preemption right under the provisions of an act of Congress of 3d day of March, 1853.
"Witness my hand this 22d day of May, A.D. 1857.
" HENRY IT. JONES.
"In presence of V. E.i EMINGTON."
The filing of this statement was duly noted in the proper
volume of tract books in the land office, and was the only
record claim to the premises prior to the time when the line
of the Central Pacific Railroad was definitely fixed. The
government survey was made intermediate the settlement by
Jones in 1854 and the filing of this statement. On April 18,
1856, a return of the official plat of such survey was made by
the surveyor-general for the State of California to the General
Land Office at Washington, and during the same year a duplicate copy thereof was filed in the local land office. By such
survey and return all the land in the township, including the
premises in question, was ascertained and returned as agricultural and not mineral or swamp land, and not embraced in
any government reservation. On June 30, 1858, the President

WHITNEY v. TAYLOR.
Statement of the Case.

issued his proclamation for the sale of lands in that land district, this tract included, naming February 14, 1859, as the
time for the opening of the sale, and notifying all preemption
claimants that their rights would be forfeited unless prior to
such date they should establish their claims and pay for the
lands they had given notice of their intention to preempt.
The proclamation further declared that " no mineral lands or
tracts containing mineral deposits are to be offered at the
public sales, such mineral lands being hereby expressly excepted from sale or other disposal pursuant to the requirements
of the act of Congress, approved March 3, 1853." The land
officers under this authority withheld from offer and sale all of
section 33, stating in their report, dated March 13, 1859, that
the land was reserved as mineral land.
Some time after the filing of the map of definite location
the railroad company commenced proceedings against Jones
to have his declaratory statement cancelled. The decision
of the local land officers, adverse to Jones, was transmitted to
the Commissioner of the General Land Office, who, on December 23, 1886, affirming their decision, held that "at the date
when the route of the C. P. R. R. Co. was definitely fixed a
preemption claim had attached thereto, that of Jones, and
as the grant to said company expressly provided that lands
to which a preemption claim had not attached were granted,
it follows that lands to which such a claim had then attached
were not granted. 1C P. R. i. Co. v. Du nzeyer, 113 U. S.
29, and U. S. v. U. P. R. R. Co., 12 Copp, 161. That
Jones's claim has been found to have been abandoned or
invalid cannot operate to the railroad company's advantage,
for the granting act did not provide that lands to which
an unabandoned or valid preemption claim may not have
attached were granted, but only that lands to which a preemption claim may not have attached were granted. The
claim of Jones had attached when the railroad was definitely
located, and, whether valid or invalid, excepted the land
from the grant. The tract in question is, therefore, held to
be subject to disposal as public land."
This decision was affirmed by the Secretary of the Interior

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

on July 17, 1888. On August 28, 1888, the defendant made
entry of the premises under the homestead laws of the United
States. Subsequently, he commuted such homestead entry
under section 2301, Rev. Stat., made his final proofs, paid the
sum of $100, and obtained the government receipt therefor.
With reference to the occupation and improvement of the
premises by Jones this is the finding of the trial court:
"That Jones, from the time that he alleged settlement, in
1854, up to about 1859, cut some hay off from about four
acres of the land in controversy, which he had enclosed with
a brush fence. Jones cut off the brush on the ground in
controversy to enable him to make the fence. At that time
the country was open and Jones pastured his cattle and sheep
on the land in controversy, as well as over the surrounding
country, but he never settled upon the land in controversy.
lie lived on section 4 adjoining. At the time of Jones's
settlement the lines of survey were not generally known.
Jones subsequently left the country to visit England about
1859, the exact date not being fixed, and never returned.
His record filing remained intact on the records of the land
office until cancelled [in 1885], as hereinbefore stated."
Upon the foregoing facts the Circuit Court held that the
land in controversy was at the time of defendant's homestead
entry part of the public domain of the United States and
subject to disposal as public land, and, upon such conclusion,
entered judgment in favor of the defendant. 45 Fed. Rep.
616.
-31r.B. E Valentine for plaintiff in error.

11r. C. IV. Ilolcomb for defendant in error.
Johnston,was on his brief.

-Mr. IF. J.

MR. JUsTIcE BREW R delivered the opinion of the court.
This case turns upon the question whether on March 26,
1864, at the time of the filing by the railroad company of its
map of definite location, the tract in controversy was public

WHITNEY v. TAYLOR.
Opinion of the Court.

land of the United States, and therefore passing under the
grant to the company, or was excepted therefroin by reason
of the previous declaratory statement of Jones. In .Kansas
JPac{/lc Railway v. Daumneyer, 113 U. S. 629, 644, one Miller
had made a homestead entry on the land in controversy prior
to the filing of the map of definite location. Thereafter he
abandoned his homestead claim, and the contention was that
such abandonment inured to the benefit of the company, and
subjected the land to the operation of the grant, but this
contention was denied, the court, holding that the condition
of the title at the date of the definite location determined
the question as to whether the land passed to the railroad
company or not, and, distinguishing fVater and Mining Conpany v. Bugbey, 96 U. S. 165, said in reference to a homestead claim :
" In the case before us a claim was made and filed in the
land office, and there recognized, before the line of the company's road was located. That claim was an existing one of
public record in favor of Miller when the map of plaintiff in
error was filed. In the language of the act of Congress this
homestead claim had attacked to the land, and it therefore did
not pass by the grant.
"Of all the words in the English language this word
attached was probably the best that could have been used.
It did not mean mere settlement, residence, or cultivation of
the land, but it meant a proceeding in the proper land office,
by which the inchoate right to the land was initiated. It
meant that by such a.proceeding a right of homestead had
fastened to that land, which could ripen into a perfect title by
future residence and cultivation. With the performance of
these conditions the company had nothing to do. The right
of the homestead having attached to the land it was excepted
out of the grant as much as if in a deed, it had been excluded
from the conveyance by metes and bounds."
In Ihastings & -Dakota Railroadv. Whitney, 132 U. S. 357,
361, these facts appeared: At the time of the filing by the plaintiff railroad company of its map of definite location there stood
upon the records of the local land office a homestead entry of

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Bently S. Turner. This entry was based upon an affidavit
made by Turner, a soldier in the army of the United States,
and actually with his regiment in the State of Virginia, which
affidavit stated that Turner was the head of a family, a citizen of the United States and a resident of Franklin County,
New York. It did not state that Turner's family, or any
member thereof, was residing on the land, or tha.t there was
any improvement made thereon, and as a matter of fact no
member of his family was then residing, or ever did reside,
on the land, and no improvement whatever of any kind had
ever been made thereon by any one. The application for the
entry was made through one Conwell, whom Turner had constituted his attorney for that purpose. At the time of making
this entry section 1 of the act of March 21, 1864, c. 38, 13 Stat.
35, lRev. Stat. ยง 2293, was in force, which authorized one, in
the military or naval service of the United States, and, therefore, unable to do personally the preliminary acts required at
the land office, whose family or some member thereof was
residing on the land, and upon which a bona fide improvement and settlement had been made, to make the customary
affidavit before his commanding officer, and upon that, the
other provisions of the statute being complied with, to enter a
tract of land as a homestead. It was held that notwithstanding the defects in the affidavit the tract was excepted from the
scope of the grant, although the language of the granting act
only excepted therefrom lands to which "the right of preemption or homestead settlement has attached," while the
language of the granting act in the present case is "to which
a pregmption or homestead claim may not have attached."
We quote from the opinion by Mr. Justice Lamap as follows:
"In Jitherspoon v. Dancan,4 Wall. 210, this court decided,
in accordance with the decision in Carroll v. Safford, 3 How.
441, that ' lands originally public cease to be public after they
have been entered at the land office and a certificate of entry
has been obtained.' And the court further held that this
applies as well to homestead and preimption as to cash
entries. In either case, the entry being made and the certificate being executed and delivered, the particular land entered

WHITNEY v. TAYLOR.
Opinion of the Court.

thereby becomes segregated from the mass of public lands
and takes the character of private property. The fact that
such an entry may not be confirmed by the land office on
account of any alleged defect therein, or may be cancelled
or declared forfeited on account of non-compliance with the
law, or even declared void, after a patent has issued on account
of fraud, in a direct proceeding for that purpose in the courts,
is an incident inherent in all entries of the public lands." And,
after referring to the Dunmeyer case, in which it was said
that the entry when made was valid, "counsel for plaintiff in
error contends that the case just cited has no application to
the one we are now considering, the difference being that in
that case the entry existing at the time of the location of the
road was an entry valid in all respects, while the entry in this
case was invalid on its face and in its inception ; and that this
entry having been made by an agent of the applicant and
based upon an affidavit which failed to show the settlement
and improvement required by law, was, on its face, not such a
proceeding in the proper land office as could attach even an
inchoate right to the land. . . . But these defects, whether
they be of form or substance, by no means render the entry
absolutely a nullity. So long as it remains a subsisting entry
of record, whose legality has been passed upon by the land
authorities, and their action remains unreversed, it is such an
appropriation of the tract as segregates it from the public
domain, and therefore precludes it from subsequent grants.
In the case before us, at the time of the location of the company's road, an examination of the tract books and the plat
filed in the office of the register and receiver, or in the land
office, would have disclosed Turner's entry as an entry of
record, accepted by the proper officers in the proper office,
together with the application and necessary money - an entry,
the imperfections and defects of which could have been cured
by a supplemental affidavit or by other proof of the requisite
qualifications of the applicant. Such an entry attached to the
land a right which the road cannot dispute for any supposed
failure of the entryman to comply with all the provisions of
the law under which he made his claim. A practice of allow-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

ing such contests would be fraught with the gravest dangers
to actual settlers, and would be subversive of the principles upon
which the munificent railroad grants are based. As was said
in the Dznmeyer ca8e, supra: 'It is not conceivable that
Congress intended to place these parties (homestead and preemption claimants on the one hand and the railway company
on the other) as contestants for the land, with the right in
each to require proof from the other of complete performance
of its obligation. Least of all is it to be supposed that it was
intended to raise up, in antagonism to all the actual settlers
on the soil whom it had invited to its occupation, this great
corporation with an interest to defeat their claims and to
come between them and the government as to the performance of their obligations? "
The same doctrine was applied in Bardon v. Northern
Pacic Railroad, 145 U. S. 535, to a preemption entry,
though it is true that in that case payment had been made,
and the final receipt issued prior to the filing of the map of
definite location.
See also New/tall v. Sanger, 92 U. S. 761, in which case the
mere existence of an alleged Mexican grant, valid or invalid,
and the validity of which was under investigation before the
proper tribunal at the time of the filing of the map of definite
location of one of the Pacific roads, a beneficiary of the very
act now before us, was held to exclude all lands within its
boundaries from the operation of the congressional grant.
Although these cases are none of them exactly like the one
before us, yet the principle to be deduced from them is that
when on the records of the local land office there is an existing claim on the part of an individual under the homestead
or preenmption law, which has been recognized by the officers
of the government and has not been cancelled or set aside,
the tract in respect to which that claim is existing is excepted
from the operation of a railroad land grant containing the
ordinary excepting clauses, and this notwithstanding such
claim may not be enforceable by the claimant, and is subject
to cancellation by the government at its own suggestion, or
u4)on the application of other parties. It was not the inten-

WHITNEY v. TAYLOR.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of Congress to open a controversy between the claimant
and the railroad company as to the validity of the former's
claim. It was enough that the claim existed, and the question
of its validity was a matter to be settled between the government and the claimant, in respect to which the railroad company was not permitted to be heard. The reasoning of these
cases is applicable here. Jones had filed a claim in respect to
this land, declaring that he had settled and improved it, and
intended to purchase it under the provisions of the preemption
law. Whether he had in fact settled or improved it was a
question in which the government was, at least up to the time
of the filing of the map of definite location, the only party
adversely interested. And if it was content to let that claim
rest as one thereafter to be prosecuted to consummation, that
was the end of the matter, and the railroad company was not
permitted by the filing of its map of definite location to
become a party to any such controversy. The land being
subject to such claim was, as said by Mr. Justice Miller, in
Railway Com)any v. Duneyer, siqp)ra, "excepted out of the
grant as much as if in a deed it had been excluded from the
conveyance by metes and bounds."
While not disputing the general force of these authorities
it is insisted by plaintiff that this case is not controlled by
them for these reasons : First, Jones never acquired any right
of preinmption because he never in fact settled upon and
improved the tract ; second, the land was unsurveyed at the
time of the alleged settlement, and the filing was not made
" within three months after the return of the plats of surveys
to the land office," (10 Stat. 246,) and was therefore an
unauthorized act; third, that whether the filing was made in
time or not, as it was not followed by payment and final proof
within the time prescribed, all rights acquired by it lapsed,
the filing became in the nomenclature of the land office an
expired filing," and the land was discharged of all claim by
reason thereof.
With reference to the first of these reasons it is true that
there must be a settlement and improvement in order to
justify the filing of such a declaratory statement. Settlement

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

is the initial fact. The act of September 4, 1841, c. 16, 5 Stat.
453, which was in force at the time of these transactions,
gave the right of pre&mption to one making "a settlement
in person," and who inhabits and improves the land and erects
a dwelling thereon, (ยง 10,) and authorized the filing of a declaratory statement within three i-onths after the date of such
settlement. (ยง 15.) In this respect a prelnption differs
from a homestead, for the entry in the land office is in respect
to the latter the initial fact. Act of May 20, 1862, c. 75, 12
Stat. 392; Rev. Stat. ยง 2290 ; -31addoxv. Burnkam, 156 U. S.
544. But it is also true that settlement alone without a
declaratory statement creates no prenption right. "Such a
notice of claim or declaratory statement is indispensably
necessary to give the claimant any standing as a preemptor,
the rule being that his settlement alone is not sufficient for
that purpose."
Lansdale v. -Daniels, 100 U. S. 113, 116.
And the acceptance of such declaratory statement and noting
the same on the books of the local land office is the official
recognition of the pre~mption claim. While the cases of
EYansas I'acifc Railway Co. v. Duneyer and Hastings &
Dakota Railway Co. v. IV/titney, sitpra, involved simply
homestead claims, yet, in the opinion in each, preehnption
and homestead claims were mentioned and considered as
standing in this respect upon the same footing. Further,
it may be noticed that the granting clause of the Pacific
Railroad acts, differing from similar clauses in other railroad
grants, excepts lands to which preimption or homestead
"claims" have attached, instead of simply cases of prenption or homestead "rights."
And the filing of this declaratory statement was, in the strictest sense of the term, the
assertion of a pre~inption claim, and when filed and noted it
was officially recognized as such. Indeed, if this is not so,
there is no preimption claim of record until the full right of
the pretnptor is established by proofs and final entry, at
which time he acquires an equitable title sufficient to support taxation, and one of which he cannot be dispossessed
except by some legal proceedings. Witherspoon v. Duncan,
4 Wall. 210; Orchard v. Alexander, 157 U. S. 372.

WHITNEY v. TAYLOR.
Opinion of the Court.

In this respect notice may also be taken of the rule prevailino in the land department where the filing of the declaratory
statement is recognized as the assertion of a preihnption
claim which excepts a tract from the scope of a railroad grant
like this. See among other cases -Malonev. J4cailway Company, 7 Land Dec. 13; Mlillican v. -Railroad Company,
7 Land Dec. 85; Payne v. Railroad Company, 7 Land Dec.
405; Railroad Company v. Lewis, 8 Land Dec. 292 ; Railroad Company v. Stovenour, 10 Land Dec. 645.
Indeed, this declaratory statement bears substantially the
same relation to a purchase under the preemption law that
the original entry in a homestead case does to the final acquisition of title. The purpose of each is to place on record an
assertion of an intent to obtain title under the respective
statutes. "This statement was filed with the register and
receiver, and was obviously intended to enable them to
reserve the tract from sale, for the time allowed the settler to
perfect his entry and pay for the land." Johnson. v. Towsley,
13 Wall. 72, 89. By neither the declaratory statement in a
preemption case nor the original entry in a homestead case is
any vested right acquired as against the government. For
each fees must be paid by the applicant, and each practically
amounts to nothing more than a declaration of intention. It
is true one must be verified and the other need not be, but
this does not create any essential difference in the character
of the proceeding; and when the declaratory statement is
accepted by the local land officers and the fact noted on the
land books, the effect is precisely the same as that ivhich follows from the acceptance of the verified application in a homestead case and its entry on the land books. The latter, as we
have seen in the two cases of Railway Company v. Dtunmeyer
and Railroad company v. Whitney, sup)ra, has been expressly
adjudged to be sufficient to take the land out of the scope of
the grant. The reasons given therefor lead to the same conclusion in respect to a declaratory statement. Counsel urges
that, inasmuch as the latter need not be verified, one might
file under assumed names declaratory statements on every
tract within the limits of a railroad grant prior to the time of

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

the filing of the map of definite location, and thus prevent the
railroad company from receiving any lands. This danger is
more imaginary than real. In the first place, for each application fees must be paid, and it is not to be supposed that any
one would throw away money for the mere sake of preventing a railroad grant from having any operation. In the
second place, such declaratory statements under assumed
names would be purely fictitious and could be set aside as
absolutely void. Indeed, good faith is presumed to underlie
all such applications. The acceptance of the declaratory
statement by the local land officers is prima facie evidence
that they have approved it as a bonafide application, and if, in
any particular instance, it is shown to be purely fictitious,
doubtless there is an adequate remedy by proper proceedings
in the land office. There is in the case before us no pretence
that the transaction was a fictitious one, or carried on otherwise than in perfect good faith on the part of the applicant.
At any rate, Congress has seen fit not to require an affidavit
to a declaratory statement, and has provided for the filing of
such unsworn statement as the proper means for an assertion
on record of a claim under the preemption law, and that is
all that is necessary to except the land from the scope of the
grant.
With reference to the second matter, it is true that section
6 of the act of 1853 (10 Stat. 246) provides "that where
unsurveyed lands are claimed by preemption, the usual
notice of such claim shall be filed within three months after
the return of the plats of surveys to the land offices." But
it was held in Johnson v. Towsley, supra, that a failure to
file within the prescribed time did not vitiate the proceeding,
neither could the delay be taken advantage of by one who
had acquired no rights prior to the filing. As said in the
opinion in that case (p. 90) "If no other party has made a
settlement or has given notice of such intention, then no one
has been injured by the delay beyond three months, and if at
any time after the three months, while the party is still in
possession, he makes his declaration, and this is done before
any one else has initiated a right of preemption by settle-

WHITNEY

v. TAYLOR.

Opinion of the Court.

ment or declaration, we can see no purpose in forbidding him
to make his declaration or in making it void when made.
And we think that Congress intended to provide for the
protection of the first settler by giving him three months
to make his declaration, and for all other settlers by saying if
this is not done within three months any one else who has
settled on it within that time, or at any time before the first
settler makes his declaration, shall have the better rioht."
See also _Lansdale v. Daniels, 100 U. S. 113, 117, where it is
said: "Such a notice, if given before the time allowed by
law, is a nullity; but the rule is otherwise where it is filed
subsequent to the period prescribed by the amendatory act,
as in the latter event it is held to be operative and sufficient
unless some other person had previously commenced a settlement and given the required notice of claim." The delay in
filing, therefore, had no effect upon the validity of the declaratory statement.
With reference to the third contention, it is true that section 6 of the act of 1853, heretofore referred to, provides not
merely when the declaratory statement shall be filed, but
also that "proof and payment shall be made prior to the
(lay appointed by the President's proclamation for the commencement of the sale, including such lands." But the President's proclamation, appointing February 14, 1859, as the
day for commencing the sale of public lands in certain townships, in one of which was the land in question, expressly
excepted and excluded mineral lands therefrom, and on that
ground this land was not offered.
It was said by Mr. Secretary Noble, in his decision on the
appeal of the railway company (11 Land Dec. 195, 196):
"While it is true that the proclamation included said township 12 N., of range 7 E., it also declared that no 'mineral
lands,' or tracts containing mineral deposits, are to be offered
at the public sales, such mineral lands being hereby expressly
excepted and excluded from sale or other disposal, pursuant to
the requirements of the act of Congress approved larch 3,
1853.
"Pursuant to this direction the local officers withheld from
voL. cLVIII-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

offering and sale all of said section 33, as appears by their
report dated March 18, 1859. After stating' all the offerings
and sales made in said township and range, the report concludes: 'All the balance of the township reserved, mineral
lands.' All of section 33 was so reserved.
"It thus appears that the tract in question remained in the
category of unoffered lands, and was not proclaimed for sale.
The pre~inption act of March 3, 1843, (5 Stat. 620,) provided
that the settler on unoffered land might make proof and payment at any time before the commencement of the public sale,
which should embrace his land. Until such time arrived the
filing protected the claim of the settler. This was the status
of the law at the time said company's rights attached, and it
so continued until modified by the act of July 14, 1870. 16
Stat. 279."
We see no sufficient reasons for doubting the conclusions
thus reached by the Secretary.
These are all the questions presented by counsel. There
was no error in the ruling of the Circuit Court, and its judgment is, therefore,
______________A/finned.

GULF,

COLORADO AND SANTA FE
COMPANY v. HEFLEY.

ERROR TO THE COUNTY couR

RAILWAY

OF MILAM COUNTY, STATE OF TEXAS.

No. 255. Submitted April 4, 1895. -Decided

April 29, 1595.

The Texas statute of May 6, 1882, making it unlawful for a railroad company in that State to charge and collect a greater sum for transporting
freight than is specified in the bill of lading, is, when applied to freight
transported into the State from a place without it, in conflict with the
provision in section 6 of the Interstate Commerce Act of February 4,
1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, as amended by the act of March 2, 1889, c.
382, 25 Stat. 855, that it shall be unlawful for such carrier to charge and
collect a grcater or less compensation for the transportation of the property than is specified in the published schedule of rates provided for by
the act, and in force at the time ; and, being thus in conflict, it is not

applicable to interstate shipments.

