OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

the extent claimed. The opinion expressly says that "a stock.
holder is not liable for the general debts of the corporation, if
the statute creating it has been complied with." The term
"corporation" does not include stockholders, and a statute imposing a liability upon the corporation does not thereby impose
the same upon the stockholders. Indeed, section 9 of thecharter of the warehouse company makes special provision for
the liabilities of the stockholders of the company, which was
obviously unnecessary, if by the clause quoted all the provisions of the general incorporation act in respect to the
liability of stockholders, trustees, and other officers were transferred to and made a part of the charter. We see nothing in
the case of Feeder v. .Mudgett, 95 N. Y. 295, to throw any
light upon this question. So far then as the decisions of the
Court of Appeals go they do not affirm that so much of the
act of 1848 as imposes a special liability on trustees and
directors was incorporated into the charter of the warehouse
company by force of section 9 or otherwise. And in the absence of any controlling decision we are unwilling to hold that
a provision of a general statute imposing a personal liability
on trustees or other officers is incorporated into a special
charter by a clause therein declaring that the corporation
shall possess all the general powers and privileges and be
subject to all the liabilities conferred and imposed upon corporations organized under such general act. Something more
specific and direct is necessary to burden an officer of the corporation with a penalty for omission of duty.
We are of the opinion that the judgment of the Circuit Court
was right, and it is
Afltrmed.

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
SMITH v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS

FROM THE COURT

OF CLAIMS.

Nos. 289, 345. Submitted April 10, 1895. -Decided

May 20, 1895.

Mileage or travel fees are allowed to a district attorney as a disbursement
or commutation of travelling expenses, irrespective of the amount of
compensation for services to which lie is limited by law.

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
Counsel for Smith.
Per diem allowances to him for attendance, and charges for special services
directed by the Attorney General, are compensation for services, and
in law form part of the gross sum therefor, which may not be exceeded.

T.HrSE were cross-appeals from certain allowances and disallowances in the accounts of the claimant, who was district
attorney of the United States for the Territory of New Mexico
from January 1, 1886, to December 31, 1888.
His accounts for the services performed by him during that
time were duly rendered, with vouchers and items, to the
proper District Court, and were duly approved by said court
in the sum of $19,230.80, as just and according to law. The
accounts were afterwards presented to the Treasury Department and certified as correct to the amount $18,605.80, of
which $14,266.34 was paid, leaving an unpaid balance of
$4339.36.
This balance the accounting officers of the Treasury refused
to certify for payment, upon the ground that the claimant
had been paid for the three years in question the maximum
compensation of $3500 per annum prescribed by the act of
April 7, 1882, for the attorney of the United States for New
Mexico, and on the further ground, in respect to another item
of $595, that it had been disallowed by the Attorney General
as being in excess of just compensation.
The unpaid balance of $4339.46 is composed of certain
services performed by him in a claimed unofficial capacity
under the direction of the Attorney General, of mileage and
of per diem compensation.
The Court of Claims rendered judgment in his favor for
the mileage, amounting to $1270.80, but disallowed his claim
for per diem compensation, amounting to $2843.66, and for
special services, $225.
Both parties thereupon appealed to this court.
Xlr. Assi8tant Attorney General Dodge and Mr. Felix
Brannigan for the United States.
-Mr. Ejopa flu ton and Mr. John Altheus Johnson for
Smith.

OCTOBER TERM, 1804.
Opinion of the Court

MR. JUSTICE BRowN,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
This case involves the question whether the three items of
travel fees, per dittns, and extra services should be included in
the fee and emolument account of the district attorney, as
belonging to the "fees, charges, and emoluments" to which
a district attorney is entitled by reason of the discharge of
the duties of his office. Rev. Stat. §§ 833 and 834. If these
items are included, his compensation would exceed the maximum allowed by law, and he would not be entitled to the
excess. The Court of Claims held that he was entitled to
his travel fees but not to the other items.
The case depends upon the construction given to certain
provisions of chapter 16, title 13, of the Revised Statutes, with
respect to the fees of officers of the United States courts.
Section 823 provides that "the following and no other compensation shall be taxed and allowed to attorneys, solicitors,
and proctors of the Courts of the United States, to district
attorneys," etc. Section 824 fixes the fees of district attorneys, among which are the following: " For each day of his
necessary attendance in a court of the United States on the
business of the United States, when the court is held at the
place of his abode, five dollars; and for his attendance when
the court is held elsewhere, five dollars for each day of the
term." "FFor travelling from the place of his abode to the
place of holding any court of the United States in his district,
or to the place of any examination before a judge or commissioner, of a person charged with crime, ten cents a mile for
going and ten cents a mile for returning."
By section 833, every district attorney is required to make
a semi-annual return to the Attorney General "of all the fees
and emoluments of his office, of every name and character, and
of all the necessary expenses of his office, including necessary
clerk-hire, together with the vouchers for the payment of the
same;" and by section 834 he is bound to include in such
semi-annual return, with the exception of fees in revenue
cases, "all other fees, charges, and emoluments to which a dis-

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

trict attorney .
.
may be entitled, by reason of the
discharge of the duties of his office, as now or hereafter prescribed by law, or in any case in which the United States will
be bound by the judgment rendered therein, whether prescribed by statute or allowed by a court, or any judge thereof."
By section 837 th*e district attorneys and marshals of certain
districts were awarded "for the like services, double the fees
hereinbefore provided," and by the act of August 7, 1882, 22
Stat. 344, this allowance of double fees was extended to the
Territories of New Mexico and Arizona, with a provision that
the district attorney should not by fees and salaries together
receive more than $3500 per year.
1. The first item relates to the allowance of the claim for
mileage. While an allowance for travel fees or mileage is, by
section 823, included in the fee bill, we think it was not intended as a compensation to a district attorney for services
performed, but rather as a reimbursement for expenses incurred, or presumed to be incurred, in travelling from his residence to the place of holding court, or to the office of the
judge or commissioner. The allowance of mileage to officers
of the United States, particularly in the military and naval
service, when travelling in the service of the government, is
fixed at an arbitrary sum, not only on account of the difficulty
of auditing the petty items which constitute the bulk of travelling expenses, but foP the reason that officers travel in different styles; and expenses, which in one case might seem entirely
reasonable, might in another be deemed to be unreasonable.
There are different standards of travelling as of living, and
while the mileage in one case may more than cover the actual
expenses, in another it may fall short of it. It would be obviously unjust to allow one officer a certain sum for travelling
from New York to Chicago, and another double that sum, and
yet their actual expenses may differ as widely as that. The
object of the statute is to fix a certain allowance, out of which
the officer may make a saving or not as he chooses, or is able.
And while, in some cases, it may operate as a compensation,
it is not so intended, and is not a fee, charge, or emolumnent of
his office within the meaning of section 834. It is much like

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

the arbitrary allowance for the attendance of witnesses and
jurors, which may or may not be sufficient to pay their actual
expenses, depending altogether upon the style in which they
choose to live.
The fact that these travel fees are treated in section 823 as
an item of the " compensation" allowed to. district attorneys
and are enumerated in section 824, under the head of "fees
of attorneys, solicitors, and proctors," undoubtedly lends some
support to the claim of the government that they were designed to be included in the returns of the district attorneys of
the fees, charges, and emoluments of their offices. But we think
these facts, though pertinent, are not controlling, if the travel
fees were designed, as we think they are, as a reimbursement
or commutation of travelling expenses. In this connection
there is an apparent inconsistency in the action of the claimant which is not noticed in the opinion of the court below,
and is not presented on this record for our revision, although
it may have some bearing argumentatively upon the question
under consideration. This is the fact, that, while under section 831, and the act of August 7, 1882, allowing to certain
district attorneys "double fees" for like services, he charges
double mileage (twenty cents) as a "fee," he at the same time
claims that such mileage is not to be accounted for as one
of "the fees and emoluments of his office." It would seem
almost too plain for argument that if such mileage be a fee
to be charged for, it is also a fee to be accounted for.
In view of the fact that by section 824 the district attorney
is allowed ton cents a mile travel fees each way, it is somewhat singular that, by section 828, the clerk is allowed a
travel fee of only five cents each way, although both are
allowed a per diem of five dollars. This discrepancy appears
to have existed only since the act of February 26, 1853, 10
Stat. 161, inasmuch as by the act of February 28, 1799, 1 Stat.
624, both the clerk and district attorney were allowed travel
fees of ten cents per mile from the place of their abode to the
place of holding court - one way.
Undoubtedly, however, the strongest argument in favor of
the position assumed by the government, that the travel fees

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

in question were intended as compensation for services, is derivable from the fact that, by section 829 of the same chapter,
the marshal is allowed for transporting criminals, ten cents a
mile for himself and each prisoner and necessary guard ; and
for travelling from his rbsidence to the place of holding court,
ten cents a mile for going only, while for travelling in going
only to serve process, he is allowed six cents a mile, to be computed from the place where the process is returned to the place
of service, with a proviso that "when more than two writs of
any kind required to be served in behalf of the same party on
the same person might be served at the same time, the marshal shall be entitled to compensation for travel on only two
of such writs." If, however, the writs are not in behalf of
the same party, to be served upon the same person, there is
no limit to the number upon which the marshal is entitled to
mileage. United States v. Fletcher, 147 U. S. 664. The fact
that the amount of mileage which the marshal is entitled to
charge for making a certain journey is thus made to have no
relation whatever to the amount of his expenses or to the
number of writs he has in his possession, indicates very clearly
that such mileage is intended as compensation. There is also
another proviso to the same effect, namely, that his fees for
summoning jurors, including the mileage chargeable for each
service, shall never exceed $50 at any term of court; "and in
all " other "cases where mileage is allowed to the marshal he
may elect to receive the same, or his actual travelling expenses,
to be proved on his oath, to the satisfaction of the court."
The other fees allowed to the marshal are substantially only
the following: For the service of each writ, $2; for per diems,
$5, and a small commission upon property sold and money
disbursed for the government. Other allowances are made by
section 829, but they are of comparatively small importance.
In view of these provisions, and of the very large proportion
which travel fees make in the accounts of the marshal, it is
difficult to avoid the conclusion that such fees, except, perhaps,
for travel to attend court, which are analogous to the travel
fees allowed to district attorneys and clerks, are intended to
be included in his account. All such fees, with the above

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

exception, are taxable as costs in the cause in which the travel
is made, and are intended as part of his compensation for services in such cause, while the manifest purpose of travel fees
to and from court is a reimbursement of personal expenses.
But it does not follow that where, as in the case of district
attorneys and clerks, the travel fees or mileage is allowed only
to the officer for travel made by him in actually going to and
from his place of abode to the place of holding court, such
mileage should be regarded in any other light than as a
reimbursement for expenses presumed to have been incurred.
2. With regard to per diems the case is somewhat different.
They are allowed "for each day of his necessary attendance in
a court of the United States or before a judge or commissioner
on the business of the United States, when the court is held at
his place of abode," as well as for his attendance when the
court is held elsewhere, for each day of the term, whether he
is actually in attendance or not, since he is presumed to be
present at each term for the protection of the interests of the
government.
The fact that these per diems are allowed for his attendance
at his place of abode, indicates very clearly that they are not
intended as reimbursements for personal expenses specially incurred, since every man must live somewhere and must incur
somne expense in so doing. Reimbursement is only intended in
cases where an expense is incurred in the services of the government, which would not be incurred if the claimant were living
at his usual place of abode. The per diem in question is evidently intended for the payment of the attendance of the district attorney, when, although he may not be actually engaged
in the trying of a case, for which a separate fee is allowed, the
duties of his office require that he should be present in court,
either waiting for a case to come on or attending to incidental
matters, for which no separate provision may be made.
3. The last item relates to fees for special services in certain
land and other cases, in which the United States was interested, though not usually a party to the action. The finding
in this particular is that the claimant had been directed by the
Attorney General to act as counsel for the United States in

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

these cases, except one, where the appearance was by direction of the court; and although the services required were
regarded by both parties either as not pertaining to the office
of the attorney for the United States, or as not being provided
for by the salary or fee bill, no agreement was entered into as
to the amount of compensation to be paid for the services, and
no certificate was made by the Attorney General, that the same
could not be performed by him or the Solicitor General, or the
officers of the Department of Justice, or by the district attorney.
Petitioner's claim in respect to these services amounted to
$1910, of which $1310 was allowed by the Attorney General,
and $600 disallowed, as being in excess of his just compensation. The accounting officers of the Treasury reduced the disallowances to $595, allowing $5 in one case under the fee bill.
Of the amount so allowed by the accounting officers, to wit,
$1315, the sum of $1090 is included in the compensation paid
to the claimant, and the difference, $225, has not been paid.
This amount ($225) is included in the unpaid balance of
$4339.46, disallowed as being in excess of the maximum allowance. The $595 above mentioned was disallowed by the
Attorney General as being in excess of just compensation.' So
that petitioner's claim embraces both these items.
It is claimed that these services were no part of the petitioner's official duty, were charged for and allowed without regard
to the fee bill, and upon the basis of a quantum meruit, and
hence they are no proper part of the fees and emoluments of
his office. The position of the claimant is that the fees and
emoluments of his office are only such as are provided for in
the fee bill, section 834, and that services performed outside
of this section are neither governed by its provisions nor by
the provisions of sections 833 and 835, requiring a return to
be made of the fees and emoluments of his office. By section
771 it is not only the duty of the district attorney to prosecute
all delinquents for crimes and offences against the Federal laws,
but "all civil actions in which the United States are concerned,"
and there is a finding that the claimant was not only directed
by the Attorney General to appear, but that the government
was interested either in the prosecution or defence of such
VOL. CLIlH-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

suits, although the direct nature of such interest does not fully
appear. We lay no stress upon the fact that, in some of these
cases, the government was interested as defendant, and that
the petitioner was employed not to prosecute, but to defend,
as we think the words "to prosecute all civil actions" should
not be interpreted in any technical sense, but should be construed as covering any case in which the district attorneys are
employed to prosecute the interests of the government in any
civil action, whether such interest be the subject of attack or
of defence. This interpretation is strengthened by a reference
to section 359, which authorizes the Attorney General, whenever he deems it for the interest of the United States, to conduct and argue any case in any court of the United States, in
which the United States is interested, or may direct any officer of the Department of Justice to do so.
In support of his claim petitioner relies upon section 3 of
the act of June 20, 1874, 18 Stat. 101, which provides that "no
civil officer of the government shall hereafter receive any compensation or perquisites, directly or indirectly, from the Treasury or property of the United States, beyond his salary or
compensation allowed by law. Provided, that this shall not
be construed to prevent the employment and payment by the
Department of Justice of district attorneys as now allowed by
law for the performance of services not covered by their salaries or fees." So far as concerns district attorneys, the salary
or compensation allowed by law undoubtedly refers to the
compensation provided for by Rev. Stat. § 821. The proviso
authorizes the Department of Justice to employ and pay district attorneys, "as now allowed by law," for the performance
of services not covered by their salaries or fees. It cannot be
presumed, however, that Congress intended thereby to throw
the door open to district attorneys to charge what they deemed
to be, or what proved to be, a reasonable sum for the performance of such services, as the proviso especially limits them to
the cases in which they had heretofore been allowed to be
employed and paid by the department for services not covered
by their salaries or fees.
The proviso in question was probably designed to be read in

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

connection with Rev. Stat. § 299, providing that "all accounts
of the United States district attorneys for services rendered in
cases instituted in the courts of the United States
where the United States is interested, but is not a party of
record, . . . shall be audited and allowed as in other
cases, assimilating the fees, as near as may be, to those provided by law for similar services in cases in which the United
States is a party." There is no finding in this case, by which
we are enabled to judge what these assimilated fees would be,
if taxed upon the basis of the compensation allowed by section
824, but they would doubtless be much less than the amount
of petitioner's claim.
But the question in this connection is, not whether the district attorney was lawfully entitled, under the above act, to
the amount allowed, but whether, having received it, or at
least having been credited with it, he must not account for
it as a part of the fees and emoluments of his office. It is
possible that he was compellable by law to render this service
for the compensation provided for in the fee bill, or for the
assimilated fees mentioned in § 299; but, in any case, the
compensation was received by him as district attorney, and
he is bound to account for it to the government as a part
of the emoluments of his office, since by the act of August
7, 1882, 22 Stat. 344, "All fees or monkeys received by him
above said amount" (of $3500 per year) "shall be paid into the
Treasury of the United States." As to whether he was compellable to render the services in question for the statutory or
assimilated fees above mentioned, we express no opinion, but
the fact that the Treasury Department may have allowed him
more than he was justly entitled to receive, does not exonerate him from the obligation to return the amount allowed as
a part of the emoluments of the office, if it was earned by him
in his capacity of district attorney. It can hardly be supposed that Congress could have intended that the Attorney
General should not be at liberty to call upon the official representative of the United States in each district to defend, as a
part of his official duty, the interests of the government in
any suit in which it was interested. It is true, there is a pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

vision in § 363 that the Attorney General shall, whenever the
public interest requires it, employ and retain, in the name of
the United States, such attorneys and counsellors at law as he
may think necessary to assist the district attorneys in the discharge of their duties, and shall stipulate with such assistant
attorneys and counsel the amount of compensation, but this
evidently does not contemplate that the district attorney himself shall be so employed. It is essential to the interests of
the government that in all suits, criminal and civil, in which it
is interested, the Attorney General shall be at liberty to call
upon the district attorney to represent it, and his compensation therefor, whether measured by the fee bill or not, is
clearly a part of the fees and emoluments of his office. This
disposes not only of the $225 included in the unpaid balance
of $4339.46, but also of the $595, which is also subject to the
additional defence that it has been disallowed by the Attorney General.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is therefore
Affirmed.

SHIPMAN v. STRAITSVILLE CENTRAL MINING
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF
No. 306.

Argued April 24, 1895. -Decided

STATES

FOR TIE

01110.
May 20,1895.

The fact that no such officer as master commissioner is known to the law
does not impair the validity of a reference to a person as such.
The findings of a referee having been ordered to stand as the findings of
the court, the only question before this court is whether the facts
found by him sustain the judgment.
As the case was not tried by the Circuit Court upon a waiver in writing of
a trial by jury, this court cannot review exceptions to the admission or
exclusion of evidence, or to findings of fact by the referee, or to his
refusal to find facts as requested.
S. and three other parties contracted on the 24th of June, 1879, as follows:
I S. agrees to represent tile entire interests and sales of the coal of the

other three parties aforesaid in the trade that may be denominated tile

