OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

RISDON IRON AND LOCOMOTIVE WORKS v.
MEDART.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE NORTHERN
No. 164.

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

Submitted January 21, 1895. -Decided

April 22, 1895.

Processes of manufacture which involve chemical or other similar elenmental action are patentable, though mechanism may be necessary in the
application or carrying out of the process, while those which consist
solely in the operation of a machine are not; and where such mechanism
is subsidiary to the chemical action, the fact that the patentee may be
entitled to a patent upon his mechanism does not impair his right to
a patent for the process.

A valid patent cannot be obtained for a process which involves nothing
more than the operation of a piece of mechanism, that is to say, for
the function of a machine.
A patent only for superior workmanship is invalid.
If it appears, upon demurrer to a bill to restrain infringement of letters
patent, that the patent is invalid, the bill should be sustained.
Letters patent No. 248,699, granted October 25, 1881, to Philip Medart for
the manufacture of belt pulleys, and letters patent No. 248,598, granted
October 25, 1881, to him for a belt pulley, and letters patent No. 238,702,
granted to him March 8, 1881, for a belt pulley, are all invalid.

was a suit in equity instituted by Philip and William
Medart against the appellant, for the infringement of three
letters patent granted to Philip Medart, viz. : Patent No.
248,599, dated October 25, 1881, for the manufacture of belt
pulleys; patent No. 248,598, also dated October 25, 1881, :for
a belt pulley; and patent No. 238,702, granted March 8, 1881,
also for a belt pulley.
In the first patent, No. 248,599, the patentee stated in
his specification that his invention "relates to that class
of belt pulleys formed of a wrought-metal rim and a separate
centre, usually a spider, and usually made of cast metal.
Heretofore considerable difficulty has been encountered in
the manufacture of such pulleys, much time, skilled labor,
and large and elaborate machinery have been required, and
THIS

IRISDON LOCOMOTIVE WORKS v. MEDART.

69

Statement of the Case.

their production has been correspondingly expensive. The
object of my invention is to cheapen and simplify their
construction, overcome the objections above mentioned, and
produce strong and perfect pulleys in a quick and efficient
manner. My invention, therefore, consists in an improved process of manufacture, whereby the above results are obtained."
The drawings accompanying the specification represent the
machinery for carrying out the invention, and the pulley
at various stages of its manufacture. The specification sets
forth in detail the manner in which the machinery is operated,
and winds up with the following statement: "Pulleys thus
manufactured are perfectly balanced, faultless in shape, strong
and durable, and can be produced more rapidly and at less
expense than the imperfect pulleys heretofore made. The
machinery herein shown and referred to has not been described more in detail, as its operation will be clear to those
skilled in such matters; and no claim to it is herein made,
it being my purpose to secure protection for such apparatus
by other applications hereafter to be made."
The claims, which are four in number, are all for the
described improvement in the art of manufacturing belt
pulleys, which consist in centering the pulley centre or
spider and then grinding the same concentrically with the
axis of the pulley, the several claims stating with more or
less detail the principal steps in the manufacture.
In his specification to patent No. 248,598 the patentee
states that his "improved pulley belongs to that class of pulleys composed of a separate spider, usually of cast metal,
and a wrought-metal rim, which is secured to the spider;"
and that his invention " consists in a pulley which is perfectly
true and accurately balanced, that is, a pulley in which the
centre of gravity and geometrical centre or axis coincide."
In his specification to patent No. 238,702, which was granted
about seven months before the other patents, the patentee
states that his invention "relates to certain improvements
in belt pulleys and had for its object, first, the production
of a cheap, light, and durable pulley; and, secondly, the
production of irregular sizes of pulleys without the necessity

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

of a separate pattern for each size of pulley required; and
this invention consists, first, in constructing the usual crown
or dish on the rim of wrought-metal rimmed pulleys by bending said rim transversely during the process of manufacture;
secondly, the belt pulley having arms formed of wood, preferably of a cylindical shape, which at their inner ends rest
in sockets cast on the hub, and at their outer ends are
provided with bracket lugs, to which the pin is secured by
rivets or other equivalent means."
Figure 1 of the following drawings exhibits a perspective
view, and figure 2 a vertical section of the patented pulley.
.F170. Z'

A

2770. 7.

.4t

The defendant appeared and demurred to the bill upon the
ground, that the patents did not show invention upon their
faces. The demurrer was argued and overruled and leave given
to answer, and upon a subsequent hearing upon pleadings and
proofs it was adjudged that all of the patents were valid; that
the defendant had infringed the first, second, and third claims
of patent No. 248,599, the two claims of patent No. 248,598,
and the first claim of patent No. 238,702, and defendant was
enjoined from further infringing. A final decree was subsequently entered, upon the report of the master, for $1811.25,
from which decree the defendant appealed.

RISDON LOCOMOTIVE WORKS v. MEDART.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. X. A. Wheaton, Mr.F J. Kie2ce, and Mr.E. R. Taylor
for appellant.
Xr. William 21. Jccles for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The three patents involved in this suit are for an improved
belt pulley, and for the manufacture of the same. Each of
them requires a separate consideration.
1. Patent No. 248,599 is for an improved process of manufacturing that class of belt pulleys formed of a wrought-metal
rim and a separate centre, usually a spider, and usually made
of cast metal.
The drawings represent the machinery for
carrying out the invention, and the pulley at the various stages
of its manufacture. The process of manufacture is set forth
in detail in the specification, and consists of the following
steps: (1) centering the pulley centre or spider; (2) grinding
the ends of the arms concentrically with the axis of the pulley ;
(3) boring the centre; (4) securing the rim to the spider; (5)
grinding the face of the rim concentric with the axis of the
pulley; (6) grinding or squaring the edges of the rim. This
process, it may be observed, is purely a mechanical one.
Does it disclose a patentable invention? That the patent
is for a process in manufacture, and not for the mechanism
employed, nor for the finished product of such manufacture, is
undeniable, and is so expressed upon the face of the specification.
The four claims of the patent make no reference to the mechanism exhibited in the drawings, and described in the specification. All claim an improvement in the art of manufacturing,
and set forth in more or less detail the various steps in that process. That certain processes of manufacture are patentable ig
as clear as that certain others are not, but nowhere is the distinction between them accurately defined. There is somewhat
of the same obscurity in the line of demarcation as in that
between mechanical skill and invention, or in that between a

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

new article of manufacture, which is universally held to be
patentable, and the function of a machine, which it is equally
clear is not. It may be said in general that processes of manufacture which involve chemical or other similar elemental
action are patentable, though mechanism may be necessary
in the application or carrying out of such process, while those
which consist solely in the operation of a machine are not.
Most processes which have been held to be patentable require
the aid of mechanism in their practical application, but where
such mechanism is subsidiary to the chemical action, the fact
that the patentee may be entitled to a patent upon his mechanism does not impair his right to a patent for the process;
since he would lose the benefit of his real discovery, which
might be applied in a dozen different ways, if he were not
entitled to such patent. But, if the operation of his device be
purely mechanical, no such considerations apply, since the
function of the machine is entirely independent of any chemical or other similar action.
A review of some of the principal cases upon the subject of
patents for processes may not be out of place in this connection,
and will serve to illustrate the distinction between such as
are and such as are not patentable.
The leading English cases are those which arose from the
patent of September 11, 1828, to Neilson, for the improved
application of air to produce heat in fires, forges, and furnaces,
where bellows or other blowing apparatus were required.
The patent, like many of the early English patents, contained
no specific claims, but described a blast or current of air to be
passed from the bellows into an air vessel or receptacle, made
sufficiently strong to endure the blast, and artificially heated
to a red heat, or very nearly so.
It was said that the air vessel or receptacle might be conveniently made of iron or other metals, and that its form was
immaterial to its effect, and might be adapted to the local circumstances or situation. In NYeilson v. Haqford, 1 Webst. Pat.
Cas. 331, this patent was construed by the Court of Exchequer,
in which the claim was made that the patent was for a principle,
and was, therefore, void. Great difficulty was felt in its proper

RISDON

LOCOMOTIVE WORKS v. MEDART.
Opinion of the Court.

construction, but after full consideration it was held that the
patent did not merely claim a principle, but a machine embodying a principle; and in delivering the opinion Baron Parke
observed: "We think the case must be considered as if the
principle being well known, the plaintiff had first invented a
mode of applying it by a mechanical apparatus to furnaces;
and his invention then consists in this by interposing a receptacle for heated air between the blowing apparatus and the
furnace. In this receptacle he directs the air to be heated by
the application of heat externally to the receptacle and thus
he accomplishes the object of applying the blast, which was
before of cold air, in a heated state in the furnace." In
citing this case in support of his opinion in O'Reilly v. .orse,
15 How. 62, 115, Mr. Chief Justice Taney treated it as an
invention of a mechanical apparatus by which a current of
hot air, instead of cold, could be*thrown in. "The interposition of a heated receptacle, in any form, was the novelty he
invented."
The Neilson patent, however, subsequently came before the
House of Lords on appeal from the Scottish Court of Session
in the Hloasehill Coal and Iron Co. v. Neilson, 1 Webst. Pat.
Cas. 6V3. The case went off upon other questions, but in delivering his opinion Lord Campbell thought the patent should be
taken as extending to all machines, of whatever construction,
whereby the air was heated intermediately between the blowing apparatus and the blast furnace. " That being so, the
learned judge was perfectly justified in telling the jury that it
was unnecessary for them to compare one apparatus with
another, because, confessedly, that system of conduit pipes was
a mode of heating air by an intermediate vessel between the
blowing apparatus and the blast furnace, and, therefore, it was
an infraction of the patent." S. C. 2 Bell Scotch II. L. App.
Cas. 1; 9 Cl. & Fin. 788.
So in delivering the opinion of this court in Tilghman v.
Procto, 102 U. S. 707, 724, Mr. Justice Bradley treated the
Neilson patent as a patent for a process, although the patentee
did not distinctly point out all the forms of apparatus by
which the process might be applied. But, notwithstanding

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

the vast amount of litigation to which this patent gave rise, it
can hardly be said that its proper construction has ever been
definitely settled. Probably it was of no particular importance, as the air would have to be heated in a receptacle of some
form before it was introduced into the furnace; and, therefore,
if the patentee was not entitled to his patent as one for a
process, he was clearly entitled to it as one for the only method
of heating the air which was practicable- his patent not
claiming any particular form of receptacle or any particular
material of which it should be made.
The first case in this court in which a claim for a process
received attentive consideration was the great case of O'Reilly
v. Morse, 15 Iow. 62, 119, involving the validity of the patent
to Morse for an electric telegraph. This patent contained
eight claims, all of which, except the last, were for the
-machinery by which the electricity was transmitted and the
message recorded. The eighth claim was for the use of
the electric current as a motive power, however developed,
for marking or printing intelligible characters at any distance.
This claim was held to be too broad and not warranted by law,
the court being of opinion that the allowance of such a claim
would shut the door against the inventions of other persons,
and enable the patentee to avail himself of any new discoveries in the properties and powers of electricity which scientific
men might bring to light. In delivering the opinion of the
court MNr. Chief Justice Taney observed: "Whoever discovers
that a certain useful result will be produced in any art,
machine, manufacture, or composition of matter, by the use of
certain means, is entitled to a patent for it; provided he specifies the means he uses in a manner so full and exact that any
one skilled in the science to which it appertains can, by using
the means he specifies, without any addition to, or subtraction
from them, produce precisely the result Je describes. And if
this cannot be done by the means he describes the patent is
void. And if it can he done, then the patent confers on him
the exclusive right to use the means he specifies to produce the
result or effect he describes and nothing more. And it makes
no difference, in this respect, whether the effect is produced by

RISDON LOCOMOTIVE WORKS v. MEIART.
Opinion of the Court.

chemical agency or combination; or by the application of discoveries or principles in natural philosophy known or unknown
before his invention; or by machinery acting altogether upon
mechanical principles. In either case he must describe the
manner and process as above mentioned, and the end it accomplishes. And any one may lawfully accomplish the same end
without infringing the patent, if he uses means substantially
different from those described."
In view of some of our later decisions it may be questioned
whether the language used by the Chief Justice in some portions
of this paragraph may not be broader than these cases would
justify, since patents for processes involving chemical effects
or combinations have been repeatedly held to be valid. Thus
in Miowry v. Whitney, 14 Wall. 620, a patent was sustained
for an improved process for manufacturing cast-iron railroad
wheels, by retarding their cooling by a second application of
heat, until all parts of the wheel were raised to the same
temperature, and then permitting the heat to subside gradually.
So in Cochrane v. Deener, 94 U. S. 780, 787, 788, a patent to
Cochrane for a process in manufacturing flour, which consisted in passing the ground meal through a series of bolting
reels composed of cloth of progressively finer meshes, and at
the same time subjecting the meal to blasts or currents of air,
by which the superfine flour was separated and the impurities
were so eliminated as to be capable of being reground and rebolted, so as to produce superfine flour, was held to be valid,
and the patentee not limited to any special arrangement of
machinery. In delivering the opinion of the court, Mr. Justice Bradley observed: "That a process may be patentable,
irrespective of the particular form of the instrumentalities used,
cannot be disputed. . . . A process is a mode of treatment
of certain materials to produce a given result. It is an act, or
a series of acts, performed upon the subject-matter to be transformed, and reduced to a different state or thing. If new and
useful, it is just as patentable as a piece of machinery. In the
language of patent law, it is an art. The machinery pointed out
as suitable to perform the process may or may not be new or
patentable; whilst the process itself may be altogether new

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

and produce an entirely new result. The process requires that
certain things should be done with certain substances, and
in a certain order; but the tools to be used in doing this
may be of secondary consequence." It will be observed in
this case that the process for which the patent was sustained
was not chemical in its nature, but, as stated in the opinion of
the court, was a series of acts performed upon the subjectmatter to be transformed and reduced to a different state or
thing.
In Til]g ona v. Proctor, 102 U. S. 707, a patent for a
process for separating the component parts of fats and
oils, so as to render them better adapted to the uses of the
arts, or, as stated in the claim, " the manufacturing of fat acids
and glycerine from fatty bodies by the action of water at a
high temperature and pressure," was sustained. The case of
O'Reilly v. Mo se was distinguished as not a patent for a
process, but for a mere principle. "If the mode of doing it,"
said Mr. Justice Bradley, "or the apparatus in or by which it
may be done, is sufficiently obvious to suggest itself to a
person skilled in the particular art, it is enough, in the patent,
to point out the process to be performed, without giving
superogatory directions as to the apparatus or the method to
be employed."
In New Process Fermentalion Conmpany v. Mauts, 122
U. S. 413, a patent was sustained for praparing and preserving
beer for the market, which consisted in holding it under controllable pressure of carbonic acid gas from the beginning of
the kraeusen stage until such time as it is transferred to kegs
and bunged. The process was strictly'a chemical one, and was
patentable within all the authorities upon the subject, although
the mechanism by which the process was applied was also set
forth in the patent.
Undoubtedly, the most important case in which a patent
for process was considered was that of the Bell Telep)lone, 126
U. S. 1, 534, in which a claim was sustained for "the method
of, and apparatus for, transmitting vocal and other sounds
telegraphically . . . 'by causing electrical undulations,
similar in form to the vibrations of the air accompanying the

IRISDON LOCOMOTIVE WORKS v. MEDART.
Opinion of the Court.

said vocal or other sounds, substantially as set forth." The
case of O'R~eilly v. Mkiorse was again commented on and distinguished, MX[r.Chief Justice Waite remarking: "In the
present case the claim is not for the use of a current of electricity in its natural state as it comes from the battery, but for
putting a continuous current in a closed circuit into a certain
specified condition suited to the transmission of vocal and
other sounds, and using it in that condition for that purpose. . .
We see nothing in lorse's case to defeat Bell's
claim; on the contrary, it is in all respects sustained by that
authority. It may be that electricity cannot be used at all for
the transmission of speech except in the way Bell has discovered, and that therefore, practically, his patent gives him
its exclusive use for that purpose, but that does not make his
claim one for the use of electricity distinct from the particular
process with which it is connected in his patent." See also Am.
-Bell Telephone Co. v. Dolbear, 15 Fed. Rep. 448. It will be
observed that, in all these cases, the process was either a
chemical one, or consisted in the use of one of the agencies of
nature for a practical purpose.
It is equally clear, however, that a valid patent cannot be
obtained for a process which involves nothing more than the
operation of a piece of mechanism, or, in other words, for the
function of a machine. The distinction between the two
classes of cases nowhere better appears than in the. earliest
reported case upen that subject, viz., Wyeth v. Stone, I Story,
273, in which the patentee claimed as his invention the cutting of ice of a uniform size by means of an apparatus worked
by any other power than human. This was said to be a claim
for an art or principle in the abstract, and not for any
particular method or machinery by which ice was to be cut,
and to be unmaintainable in point of law, although the patent
was held to be good for the machinery described in the specification.
The leading case in this court is that of Corning v. Burden,
15 Ilow. 252, 267, decided at the same term with that of
O'Reilly v. Morse. The patent was for a new and useful
machine for rolling puddler's balls and other masses of iron,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

in the manufacture of iron. Upon the trial the court below
charged the jury that the patent was for a new process, mode,
or method for converting puddler's balls into blooms by continuous pressure and rotation of the balls between converging
surfaces. Upon appeal to this court, however, the patent was
held to be one for a machine, and, in delivering the opinion of
the court, M[r. Justice Grier stated with great clearness the
difference between such processes as were patentable and such
as involved merely mechanical operation. "A process eo
nomine is not made the subject of a patent in our act of Congress. It is included under the general term 'useful art.'
An art may require one or more processes or machines in
order to produce a certain result or manufacture. The term
' machine' includes every mechanical device or combination of
mechanical powers and devices to perform some function and
produce a certain effect or result. But where the result or
effect is produced by chemical action, by the operation or
application of some element or power of nature, or of one substance to another, such modes, methods, or operations are
called processes. A new process is usually the result of discovery; a machine, of invention. The arts of tanning, dyeing,
making water-proof cloth, vulcanizing india rubber, smelting
ores, and numerous others are usually carried on by processes,
as distinguished from machines. One may discover a new
and useful improvement in the process of tanning, dyeing, etc.,
irrespective of any particular form of machinery or mechanical
device. And another may invent a labor-saving machine, by
which this operation or process may be performed, and each
may be entitled to his patent. . . . It is when the term
process is used to represent the means or method of producing
a result that it is patentable, and it will include all methods or
means which are not effected by mechanism or mechanical
combinations. But the term process is often used in a more
vague sense, in which it cannot be the subject of a patent.
Thus we say that a board is undergoing the process of being
planed, grain of being ground, iron of being hammered or rolled.
Here the term is used subjectively or passively as applied to
the material operated on, and not to the method or mode of

RISDON LOCOMOTIVE WORKS v. MEDART.
Opinion of the Court.

producing that operation, which is by mechanical means, and
the use of a machine, as distinguished from a process. In
this use of the term it represents the function of a machine,
or the effect produced by it on the material subjected to the
action of the machine. But it is well settled that a man
cannot have a patent for the function or abstract effect of
a machine, but only for the machine which produces it."
Although the cases are not numerous, this distinction between a process and a function has never been departed from
by this court, and has been accepted and applied in a large
number of cases in the Circuit Courts. The following processes have been held not to be patentable: An improvement
in sewing machines, by which the soles and uppers of boots
and shoes could be sewed together without any welt by a certain kind of stitches, McKay v. Jackeman, 12 Fed. Rep. 615
A process for washing shavings in breweries, -Brainardv.
Cranme, 12 Fed. Rep. 621. For an improved method of treating seed by steam, Gage v. Kellogg, 23 Fed. Rep. 891. A process for crimping heel stiffenings of boots and shoes, Hatch v.
.Moffi, 15 Fed. Rep. 252. See also Sieels v. Falls Gompany,
4 Blatchford, 508 ; Excelsior Needle Co. v. Unioi Needle Co.,
32 Fed. Rep. 221.
The patent in question clearly falls within this category.
As already shown, it is upon its face " for an improved process of manufacture," and mechanism is shown and described
simply for the purpose of exhibiting its operation, which is
described in detail.
The result is a pulley more perfectly
balanced, more faultless in shape, stronger and more durable,
perhaps, than any before produced ; but this was not because
the patentee had discovered anything new in the result produced, but because the mechanism was better adapted to produce that result than anything that had before been known.
As pulleys of that description had been produced before,
doubtless, with greater care in the manufacture of them,
a pulley as perfect as his might have been made. So that
all that he invented in fact was a machine for the more perfect manufacture of such pulleys. The operation or function
of such machine, however, is not patentable as a process.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

2. Patent No. 248,598, granted upon the same day, is obviously, though not in so many words, for the product of the mechanical process described in the patent just disposed of - in
other words, for a belt pulley made substantially in the manner detailed in that patent. In his specification the patentee
states that his invention " consists in a pulley which is perfectly true and accurately balanced -- that is, a pulley in which
the centre of gravity and geometrical centre or axis coincide."
le further states that all the prior belt pulleys had been open
to the objection of not having been accurately balanced, a defect inherent in their structure. "Thus, while cast pulleys are
of accurate shape, they cannot be practically produced of perfect balance, owing to the irregularity of the weight of the
metal at different portions of the rim, and to contraction in
cooling; and where pulleys of similar character to that herein
shown have been made, the spiders have not been properly
prepared- that is, the spiders have not been operated upon
so as to make the ends of their arms exactly concentric with
the true centre or axis of the pulley. . . . The spider,
however made, will be slightly imperfect in shape, and unless
the irregularities are cured before applying the rim, the completed pulley will not be accurately balanced."
After detailing the advantages of having the pulleys perfectly balanced and shaped with absolute accuracy, and setting forth in general terms the manner of securing this by
grinding the rim concentrically with the axis, he claims, first,
"the improved belt pulley, herein described, having the ends
of the spider arms ground off concentrically with the axis of
the pulley;" and second, the same pulley with the rim and
the ends of the spider arm ground off concentrically.
Obviously the patent in question is not for a new device,
nor for a new combination of old devices. It contains precisely the elements of every other belt pulley, and operates
in substantially the same way. It is in reality a patent for a
belt pulley which differs from other belt pulleys only in the
fact that the rim and ends of the spider arms are ground off
concentrically with the axis. Obviously this is not a patentable feature. The claims state in substance that the belt

IRISDON LOCOMOTIVE

WORKS v. MEDARIT.

Opinion of the Court.

pulley must be made in a peculiar way, which is equivalent to
saying that it must be made by a peculiar process; in other
words, that it is a product of a mechanical process, which we
have already held not to be patentable. The only object in
having the ends of the spider arms ground off concentrically
with the axis of the pulley is that the rim may be concentric
with such axis. This, however, is necessary in every pulley,
and if the patented pulley be superior to others in this particular, it is because its workmanship is superior, and because
it is made so by a superior process of manufacture. The specification states in substance that this belt pulley is superior to
every other because it is better made, more perfectly balanced,
and is one in which the centre of gravity and geometrical
centre, or axis, coincide. It is said that such perfection of
balance can only be obtained by the process described in the
prior patent, viz., by grinding off the ends of the spider arms;
but it does not follow that some other person may not, by
another process, or by greater care or superior skill or deftness in the handling of tools, manufacture a pulley which
shall be equal to this. But if this patent be valid, he would
be an infringer in so doing, though he employed no inechanisin whatever in the manufacture of such pulley, and did the
work entirely with his own hands, if only he ground off the
ends of the spider arms.
In short, this is a patent only for superior workmanship,
and within all the authorities is invalid. This court has
repeatedly stated that all improvement is not invention. If
a certain device differs from what precedes it only in superiority of finish, or in greater accuracy of detail, it is but the
carrying forward of an old idea, and does not amount to
invention.
Thus, if it had been customary to make an
article of unpolished metal, it does not involve invention to
polish it. If a telescope had been made with a certain degree
of power, it involves no invention to make one which differs
from the other only in its having greater power. If boards
had heretofore been planed by hand, a board better planed
by machinery would not be patentable, although in all these
cases the machinery itself may be patentable.
VOL. CLVIII-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Thus in Smith v. Nichols, 21 Wall. 112, 119, the subjectmatter of the patent was an elastic woven fabric, and it
appeared that, owing to the excellent manner of weaving,
and perhaps from other causes, the fabric had gone into extensive use, and, for the especial purpose of elastic gores in gaiterboots, had supplanted every other similar fabric. It appeared,
however, that a fabric substantially the same in construction
and possessing virtually the same properties had been previously known and used, and that the superiority of the fabric
patented was due solely to improved machinery or to greater
mechanical sdll in the formation of the fabric, by which an
excellence in degree was obtained, but not one in kind. In
delivering the opinion Mr. Justice Swayne observed: "All
the particulars claimed by the complainant, if conceded to be
his, are within the category of degres. Many textile fabrics,
especially those of cotton and wool, are constantly improved.
Sometimes the improvement is due to the skill of the workmen, and sometimes to the perfection of the machinery
employed. The results are higher finish, greater beauty of
surface, and increased commercial value. A patent for the
better fabric in such cases would, we apprehend, be unprecedented."
In Pickering v. IcCitdloug, 101 U. S. 310, the patent was for
an improvement in the manufacture of moulding crucibles and
pots, made of a plastic material composed of black lead and
fire clay. It appeared that difficulty had been experienced in
removing the crucibles from the mould, in consequence of the
adhesive nature of the black-lead mixture employed in the
manufacture. The invention obviated this difficulty, and by
an improved mode of manufacture much labor and expense
were saved, and crucibles were produced which were superior
to those made by any particular mode known prior to the
device in question. It was held that this did not involve
invention.
So in Burt v. Evory, 133 U. S. 349, the invention consisted
in a novel mode of constructing shoes and gaiters, whereby
the ordinary elastic goring at the sides and lacing at the front
were both dispensed with. The claim was treated as one for

RISDON LOCOMOTIVE WORKS v. MEDART.

83

Opinion of the Court.

a manufactured article and not for a mode of producing it.
It was held that the changes made "were changes of degree
only, and did not involve any new principle. Their shoe performed no new function. In the construction of the vamp,
the quarters and the expansible gore flap were cut somewhat
differently, it is true, from like parts of the shoe constructed
under the earlier patents referred to, but they subserved the
same purposes." See also lVooster v. Calhoun, 11 Blatchford,
215.
3. Patent No. 238,702, also for belt pulley, antedated the
other patents by seven months, and as stated by the patentee
has for its object, first, the production of a cheap, light, and
durable pulley; and secondly, the production of irregular sizes
of pulleys without the necessity of a separate pattern for each
size of pulley required. This invention consists, first, in constructing the usual crown or dish on the rim of wrought-metal
rimmed pulleys by bending said rim transversely during the
process of manufacture; secondly, the belt pulley having arms
formed of wood, preferably of a cylindrical shape, which at
their inner ends rest in sockets cast on the hub, and at their
outer ends are provided with bracket lugs, to which the pin is
secured by rivets or other equivalent means.
"The rim D may be of any suitable material--either
wrought iron, steel, or wood--with the bracket lugs C
arranged transversely, as shown, in order to brace and support the edges of the rim and prevent the same from working
loose from its attachment, which is liable to occur when the
bracket lugs are not arranged as above set forth.
." The crown or dish d, usual to belt pulleys, is formed on
the rim D by bending or dishing the rim during the process
of manufacture, preferably at the same time and by means
of the same rolls that bend the rim into the required circular
shape. By the use of wood for forming the arms of the pulley,
as above set forth, a much lighter and cheaper pulley can be
produced than where iron is used for said arms and yet possess
as great strength."
The claims are as follows:
"1. A wrought-metal rimmed pulley having a crown, d,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

formed on its rim during the process of manufacture, as
described, and for the purpose set forth.
"2. A belt pulley provided with wooden arms B, a castmetal hub A, having radial sockets a and bracket lugs C, for
the attachment of the rim D, as described, and for the purpose set forth."
If, as stated in the specification, it had been "usual" heretofore to form the rim with a crown or dish it makes no difference, so far as the completed article is concerned, whether it
be formed during the process of manufacture by bending the
rim transversely, or in any other way. Indeed, it is difficult
to see how the crown could be made except during the process
of manufacture, as it is part of such process. We are dealing
with a belt pulley as a new article of manufacture, and the
question how the pulley is made, or how the crown is made
upon the rim, is entirely immaterial. As the first claim does
not describe a pulley which differs at all in its completed state
from prior pulleys, it is clearly invalid.
The second claim is for a belt pulley provided with wooden
arms and a cast-iron hub with sockets and bracket lugs, for
the attachment of the rim. But as this claim was not found
by the court below to have been infringed, it is not necessary
to consider it.
For the reasons above given we think all these patents are
invalid, and that the demurrer to the bill should have been
sustained, except perhaps so far as the second claim of the
last patent is concerned.
Medart may or may not have been entitled to a patent for
the machinery employed in the manufacture of the belt pulleys
in question; but he certainly was not entitled to a patent for
the function of such machine, nor to the completed pulley,
which differed from the prior ones only in its superior workmanship.
The decree of the court below must, therefore, be
Reversed, and thme case remanded to the Circuit Court with
directions to dismiss the bill.

