PARK BANK v.

ItEMSEN.

Syllabus.

the court permitting the nurse and physician to testify that the
plaintiff told them, some time after the accident, that a piece
of nail had come out of his knee, and in permitting the physician to point out upon the plaintiff's knee the scar of the hole
out of which the plaintiff had told him the nail had come.
These matters could not fairly be regarded as part of the res
geske but were mere hearsay. Vicksburg & Meridian -Railroad v. O'Brien, 119 U. S. 99.
If the record disclosed no other error, the admission of this
evidence might have been passed by as immaterial. Still, it is
impossible to say that the defendant's case was not injuriously
affected by the admission of the evidence, and, while an appellate court will not disturb a judgment for an immaterial error,
yet it should appear beyond a doubt that the error complained
of did not and could not have prejudiced the rights of the party
duly objecting. Deery v. Cray, 5 Wall. 795, 807; Gilmner v.
Higley, 110 U. S. 47.
We do not deem it necessary to notice other exceptions
taken to the rulings of the court below.
Dihe judgmnent is reversed, and the cause remandedwith directions to set aside the verdict, and award a new trial.

PARK BANK v. REMSEN.
ERROR

TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

SOUTHERN
No. 316.

OF THE

UNITED

DISTRICT OF NEW

Argued April 29, 1895. -Decided

STATES

FOR

THE

YORK.
May 20, 1895.

The rulings of the Court of Appeals of New York, unanimously made, that
the warehouse company did not become indebted to the plaintiff by
reason of its endorsement of the notes which form the basis of this
action, as the company was an accommodation endorser, of which fact
the plaintiff was chargeable with notice, and that the liability of Rem-

sen, as trustee of the company, was not primary, but secondary and
dependent altogether upon a statute of that State of a penal character,
ought to be recognized in every court as, at least, most persuasive,
although the case in which the ruling was made has not yet gone to final

judgment.
VOL. CLVIII-22

OCTOBER TERMS, 1894.
Statement of the Case.
This court has held in

Chase v. Curtis, 113 U. S. 452, that that statute of

New York is penal in character, and must be construed with strictness
against those sought to be subjected to its liabilities.
In the absence of any controlling decision this court is unwilling to hold
that a provision of a general statute imposing a personal liability upon
trustees or other officers of a corporation is incorporated into a special
charter by a clause therein declaring that the corporation shall possess all
the general powers and privileges and be subject to all the liabilities

conferred and imposed upon corporations organized under such general
act.

Tuis case was tried by the court without a jury, and from
the findings the following facts appear: The German-American Mutual Warehousing and Security Company (hereafter
called the warehouse company) was a corporation of the State
of New York, incorporated by c. 701, Laws N. Y. 1872, vol. 2,
p. 1673. Section 9 of this chapter provides that "the corporation hereby created shall possess all the general powers and
privileges, and be subject to all the liabilities conferred and
imposed upon corporations organized under and in pursuance
of an act entitled 'An act to authorize the formation of corporations for manufacturing, mining, mechanical, or chemical
purposes,' passed February seventeenth, eighteen hundred and
forty-eight, and the several acts extending and amending the
same." It never made or published any of the reports required by section 12 of the act of 1848, which directed every
company within the first twenty days of each year to make
and publish in some newspaper a report signed by the president and a majority of the trustees, and verified by the oath
of the president or secretary, and showing the total capital
-stock, the proportion actually paid in, and the amount of
existing debts. Robert Squires was president, and William
Remsen, the defendants' testator, a director and trustee of the
company. Squires, Taylor & Co. were a firm doing business
in the city of New York. It was composed of Robert C.
Squires, (a son of the president of the warehouse company,)
Charles E. Taylor, and Burnett Forbes. In 1878 this firm
made two promissory notes, each to the order of themselves,
which notes were endorsed by themselves in blank, and, after
such endorsement, were also endorsed by the warehouse com-

PARK BANK v. REMSEN.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

pany, the endorsement being made by the president of the
company and without the knowledge of Remsen or the other
directors.
These notes were discounted by the plaintiff.
They were not paid at maturity, and, notice having been duly
given, the plaintiff commenced an action in the Superior
Court of the city of New York against the warehouse company as endorser. It recovered a judgment against the company, which was affirmed by the general term. 53 Jones &
Spencer, 367. The company appealed to the Court of Appeals
of the State, and on October 8, 1889, that court reversed the
judgment. 116 N. Y. 281. It held that the warehouse company was not liable on the ground that it was an accommodation endorser, and that the plaintiff was chargeable with notice
of the character of the endorsement, because the notes were
presented for discount by the makers, who received the avails
thereof.
Section 12 of the act of 1848, c. 12, hereinbefore referred to,
provides that, for failure to file the reports specified therein,
the trustees "shall be jointly and severally liable for all the
debts of the company then existing, and for all that shall be
contracted before such report shall be made." N. Y. Rev.
Stats. 8th ed. vol. 3, p. 1957.
Mr. Robert D. Murray for plaintiff in error.
C. Barlow filed a brief for same.

Mr. Francis

The decision of the New York Court of Appeals is not
binding upon the parties to the case at bar. Before considering the main question involved in the case at bar it is necessary
to show that this court is not bound by the decision of the
Court of Appeals of New York, which decided that the warehouse company 'was not liable upon the endorsements in question.
Park Bank v. German-American Warehousing &
Security Co., 116 N. Y. 281.
Of course, if this court is bound by that decision, then the
notes are not debts of the warehouse company, and are consequently not a liability of the company for which a trustee
can be held under section 12 of the manufacturing act, and
this action would necessarily fail. Of course, this court may

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

yield to the reasoning of the Court of Appeals, - but there is
no reasoning in the opinion of that court.
There is no question of resjudicatainvolved. If the question of the liability of the warehouse company on these
endorsements were resjudicata in this action, that would be
the end of our case. But re judicatc is neither pleaded
or pretended in this action, and it is incumbent upon the
defendant to plead and prove such a defence.
And if it
were pleaded, it would fail, because it is not proved, for two
reasons.
(1) There is nothing to show that a judgment was ever
entered against the plaintiff. As a matter of fact, no judgment
ever was entered.
The Court of Appeals simply reversed
the judgment and ordered a new trial. As there was no
judgment, there can be no question of res judicaa. A
citation of authorities on this point would be unnecessary.
So far as the question of rea judicata is concerned, there
is therefore no reason why the plaintiff should not again
sue the warehouse company in the courts of the State of
New York.
(2) But if there had been a judgment against the plaintiff
in the action against the warehouse company, that judgment
would not bar the plaintiffs or protect the defendant in this
action. Judgments bind only parties and privies.
The defendant Remsen was not a "party" to the action
against the warehouse company. Nor was he a "privy," as
has been decided by our Court of Appeals.
liler v. White, 50 N. Y. 137, was an action precisely like
that at bar, - that is, it was an action brought by a creditor
of a manufacturing corporation, against a trustee of the corporation, for failing to file an annual report - which is the
action which we bring against this defendant, under section 9
of the charter of the warehouse company and section 12 of
the manufacturing act.
In Miller v. White, the plaintiff had previously recovered a
judgment against the corporation, for the debt with which he
charged the defendant as trustee -and
the plaintiff there
claimed that that judgment bound the trustee, as to the indebt

PARK BANK v. IREMSEN.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

edness of the corporation. But the Court of Appeals held that
the trustee was not a "privy" to a judgment against his corporation, (and it was not pretended that he was a party,
although the court held that he was not,) and, therefore, that
the judgment against the corporation did not bind him.
The plaintiff was compelled to prove the indebtedness of
the corporation de novo, as we have done in this action against
the defendant William Remsen.
As the plaintiff in this action could not claim that a judgment which held that the warehouse company was liable established such liability as against this defendant, so the
defendant in this action could not claim that a judgment that
the warehouse company was not liable protects him.
The ground of the decision in Miller v. White was that a
trustee is " neither a party or a privy" to an action against
a corporation, and, as a judgment against the corporation does
not bind the trustee, so a judgment in favor of the corporation
does not protect him - since, as the courts say in Meltzer v.
Doll, 91 N. Y. at p. 373, "It is of the essence of an estoppel
by adjudication, that it should be mutual." See also, as following, Miller v. Wltite: Bruce v. Platt, 80 N. Y. 379; JVlitmefy v. Cammanm, 137 N. Y. 342.
But here there is no judgment in favor of the warehouse
company, but a simple discontinuance by the plaintiff after
the decision of the Court of Appeals of New York, that the
plaintiff had notice from the form of the transaction that the
notes were endorsed by the warehouse company for the accommodation of Squires, Taylor & Co. If there were a judgment, it was for the defendant to plead and prove it.
The decision in Miller v. White is conclusive upon this court,
since it is the construction put by the highest court of the
State of New York upon a statute of that State; that is, a
decision as to the relations of a corporation of that State
with its trustees.
There being no question of 8es
judieata, this court is not
bound to follow the decision of the Court of Appeals in the
warehouse case.
The defendant is liable for the debts of the warehouse corn- p

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

pany, by reason of its failure to file the reports required by
section 12 of the manufacturing act, and is therefore liable
upon the notes in suit. Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1; Wakefield
v. F.argo, 90 N. Y. 213; Feeder v. iMudgett, 95 N. Y. 295.
Mr. William II. Ingersoll for defendant in error.
MIt. JUSTICE Bimw im delivered the opinion of the court.
The highest court of the State which incorporated the warehouse company and in which it is situated, has ruled, in a
direct action against it, that it did not become indebted to the
plaintiff by reason of its endorsement. The liability of the
defendants is not primary and that of a debtor, but secondary
and depends altogether upon a statute of that State of a penal
character, which declares that, upon certain omissions of duty
on the part of a trustee, he shall become responsible for the
debts of the company. Can the Federal Courts ignore the
decision of the Court of Appeals and, in face of its unanimous
opinion that the warehouse company is not indebted, compel
the defendants to pay as a debt of the company that which
has been thus decided to be no debt ? Or, to state the proposition in another way: a statute of the State imposes a
liability on a trustee for the debts of the company, of which lie
is trustee. The highest court of the State says there is no
debt, and therefore no liability. Is it appropriate for this
court to hold that there is a debt, and, by reason thereof, a
liability ? We are asked to enforce a statute of a State penal
in its character, so far at least as the trustee is concerned, and,
therefore, to be strictly construed, in a case in which its
highest court rules that it ought not to be enforced. To the
question as thus stated it would seem that there should be but
one answer, and that the rulings of the highest court of a State
as to liability under such a statute ought to be recognized in
every court as at least most persuasive. That this statute is
one of a penal character is settled, not merely by various
decisions of the Court of Appeals of New York, but also
expressly by this court in Chase v. Curtis, 113 U. S. 452,
though as since held not "a penal law in the international
Hluntington v. Attrill, 146 U. S. 657.
sense."

PARK BANK v. REMSEN.
Opinion of the Court.

It is, however, insisted by the plaintiff that there has been
no final adjudication in the courts of New York in the action
against the warehouse company, the order made by the Court
of Appeals being simply to set aside the judgment and grant
a new trial; that the question of liability or non-liability of
the warehouse company to the plaintiff is, therefore, not res
judicata; that the plaintiff has a right, if it has not already
exercised it, of discontinuing that case, in which event there
will be no final judgment either for or against it, and nothing
to prevent its commencing a new action either in the courts
of New York State or in the courts of any other State in which
it can secure service of process on the company; Manhattan,
LZfe Ins. Co. v. Broughton, 109 U. S. 121; Gardner v. Miehigan Central R. P-. Co., 150 U. S. 349; that even if a final
judgment had been rendered in the action against the warehouse company it would not bar the plaintiff or protect the
trustee, for a judgment binds only parties and privies, and the
trustee was neither a party to that action nor a privy thereto,
Miller v. White, 50 N. Y. 137; that the question of the
liability of the warehouse company to the plaintiff being thus
still an open one, and depending not upon any statute or
matter of local law but upon principles of general commercial
law, this court is free to determine it according to its own
judgment, and is not concluded by any opinion or ruling
thereon by the state court.
It is further insisted that the Court of Appeals erred in its
views of commercial law, and that while the presentation for
discount by the maker of negotiable paper thus endorsed may
suggest that the discount is for his own benefit, and that the
endorsement is an accommodation endorsement, there is no conclusive presumption of law to that effect; that if the party discounting the paper makes no further inquiries, it is a mere matter of negligence, and that according to the rules laid down by
this court negligence alone neither vitiates the title of the holder
nor relieves any of the parties to the paper from the liability
apparently assumed by their signatures thereto. We deem it
unnecessary to determine this question. That the presentation
for discount by the maker of paper drawn to his own order

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

and bearing the endorsement of another party does create a presumnption that the endorsement is a matter of accommodation,
is affirmed by the following among other authorities: Bloom
v. Ieln, 53 Mississippi, 21 ; lendrie v. Berkowitz, 37 California, 113; Stall v. Ccatek ill Bank, 18 Wend. 466; Ov'erton v.
ilardin,6 Coldwell, 375; Iemnoine v. Bank of Yorth Arnerica, 3 Dillon, 44; Erzoin v. Schaffer, 9 Ohio St. 43 ; 1 Daniel
on Neg. Ins. ยง 365; 1 Edwards on Bills App. 105, ยง 104. On
the other hand, the plaintiff refers to these authorities as
tending to show that the presumption arising under such circumstances is not a conclusive one. Wait v. Tliayer, 118
Mass. 478; _Exarte Estabrook, 2 Lowell, 547.
Section 12 of the act of 1848 is not in terms re~nacted in
the charter of the warehouse company. It is, as we have
seen, a statutory provision of a penal character, and before any
party can be held bound by its provisions it must satisfactorily
appear that the legislation of the State has rendered him subject thereto. The contention is that section 9 of the charter
of the warehouse company in effect incorporates said section
12 into such charter, but the provision of section 9 is that the
corporation shall possess all the general powers and privileges
and be subject to all the liabilities conferred and imposed upon
corporations organized under the act of 1848. It is the corporation which is given the powers and privileges and made
subject to the liabilities. Does this carry with it an imposition
of liability upon the trustee or other officer of the corporation?
The officer is not the corporation; his liability is personal, and
not that of the corporation, nor can it be counted among the
powers and privileges of the corporation. How then can it be
contended that a provision in a charter that the corporation
thus chartered shall assume all the liabilities imposed by a
general statute upon corporations carries with it a further
provision of such general statute that the officers of corporations also assume, under certain conditions, the liabilities of the
corporation? Does one by becoming an officer of a corporation assume all the liabilities resting upon the corporation; is
not his liability of a distinct and independent character and
dependent upon other principles? It is said that this is a mere

PARK BANK v. REMSEN.
Opinion of the Court.

,question of statutory construction which has been settled by
the Court of Appeals of New York in conformity with the
views of plaintiff, but we do not so understand the scope of
those decisions.
Wakefield v. -Fargo,90 N. Y. 213, is cited. In that case it
appeared that the High Rock Congress Spring Company was
organized under an act of 1863, chapter 63, which authorized
three or more persons to incorporate in the manner specified
in the act of 1848, heretofore referred to. Section 2 provided
that "every corporation so formed shall be subject to all the
provisions, duties, and obligations contained in the abovementioned act, (the act of 1848,) and shall be entitled to all
the benefits and privileges thereby conferred." Section 18 of
the act of 1848 (3 Rev. Stat. 8th ed. 1958) made the stockholders "liable for all debts that may be due and owing to
their laborers, servants, and apprentices for services performed
for such corporation," and it was held that that provision
became incorporated into chapter 63 of the Laws of 1863, and
that the defendants, as stockholders in the spring company,
were liable accordingly. The matter is not discussed in the
opinion, but the conclusion is stated as above. It may be
noticed, however, that the act of 1863, under which the spring
company was organized, was entitled "An act to extend the
operation and effect of the act passed February 17, 1848, entitled 'An act to authorize the formation of corporations for
manufacturing, mining, mechanical, or chemical purposes;'"
and contained but two sections, the first authorizing the organization of three or more persons into a corporation in the
manner specified, etc., and the second being as heretofore
quoted. And so it may well be that the Court of Appeals
considered the act of 1848 as passing bodily into the act of
1863, and that all the "provisions" (in the language of section
2) of the former became part of the latter act. Be that as it
may, that decision comes short of meeting the question here.
Even if it were conceded that it goes so far as to hold that
"corporation," as used in that statute, includes stockholders as
component parts thereof, it does not follow that it also includes
the trustees, directors, or other officers. But it does not go to

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

the extent claimed. The opinion expressly says that "a stock.
holder is not liable for the general debts of the corporation, if
the statute creating it has been complied with." The term
"corporation" does not include stockholders, and a statute imposing a liability upon the corporation does not thereby impose
the same upon the stockholders. Indeed, section 9 of thecharter of the warehouse company makes special provision for
the liabilities of the stockholders of the company, which was
obviously unnecessary, if by the clause quoted all the provisions of the general incorporation act in respect to the
liability of stockholders, trustees, and other officers were transferred to and made a part of the charter. We see nothing in
the case of Feeder v. .Mudgett, 95 N. Y. 295, to throw any
light upon this question. So far then as the decisions of the
Court of Appeals go they do not affirm that so much of the
act of 1848 as imposes a special liability on trustees and
directors was incorporated into the charter of the warehouse
company by force of section 9 or otherwise. And in the absence of any controlling decision we are unwilling to hold that
a provision of a general statute imposing a personal liability
on trustees or other officers is incorporated into a special
charter by a clause therein declaring that the corporation
shall possess all the general powers and privileges and be
subject to all the liabilities conferred and imposed upon corporations organized under such general act. Something more
specific and direct is necessary to burden an officer of the corporation with a penalty for omission of duty.
We are of the opinion that the judgment of the Circuit Court
was right, and it is
Afltrmed.

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
SMITH v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS

FROM THE COURT

OF CLAIMS.

Nos. 289, 345. Submitted April 10, 1895. -Decided

May 20, 1895.

Mileage or travel fees are allowed to a district attorney as a disbursement
or commutation of travelling expenses, irrespective of the amount of
compensation for services to which lie is limited by law.

