OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

DE SOLLAR v. IIANSCOME.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT
THE

No. 803.

COURT

DISTRICT

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

OF COLORADO.

Argued and submitted April 28, 1895. -

I)ecided May 80, 1895.

It is of the essence of estoppel by judgment that it is certain that the precise fact was determined by the former judgment.
Where the existence of a contract is a matter of doubt, equity will not, as
a rule, decree specific performance, especially when it appears that the
property to which it relates was rapidly rising in value.

ON June 6, 1889, the appellant, as plaintiff, filed a bill in
tl.e Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Colorado for the specific performance of a contract for the
sale of real estate. The defendant appeared and answered,
and also filed a cross-bill, the purpose of which was to secure
a decree cancelling an agreement for the sale of the real estate
in controversy, made by an agent of the defendant, and placed
on record by the plaintiff. Pleadings having been perfected,
proofs were taken, and, upon a final hearing, on July 12, 1890,
a decree was entered dismissing plaintiff's bill, and decreeing
on behalf of the defendant a cancellation of the recorded
agreement.
Among the undisputed facts are the following: In the fore
part of the year 1888 the defendant lived in Wichita, Kansas,
and was the owner of the lots in controversy. Some correspondence passed between him and J. J. Henry, of Denver, in
reference to a sale, and on February 29 he wrote this letter:
"WIII'A, tCANs., Feb. 29, 1888.
"John J. Ifenry, Esq., Denver, Col.
" DEAR SIR: Yours of the 25th is rec'd; am sorry you have
to work so hard to sell my lots on Clarkson St., for I am not
so very anxious to close them out even at the $5000, the price
I held them at some time since. If I make any change on
them it will be to advance the price, as I had just about as

DE SOLLAIR v. HANSCOME.
Statement of the Case.

soon hold them as to sell for $5000, and I think the time is up
that I offered to sell them for that sum. Friends have advised
me not to sell them now, as property was advancing in that
section. In no case should I sell them for less than $5000,
and I should insist on having at least I cash and the balance
in one and two years at the longest, interest at 8 per et. and
payable semi-annually, and I should prefer to make the time
shorter. As I now expect to be in Denver on or before March
10th, perhaps we can then arrange about a sale, if not disposed
of before, but, as I have before written, I am not at all anxious to sell at my first offer of $5000 and half cash.
" Yours truly,
W. B. HANSCOME."
On the receipt of this hIenry and plaintiff signed the
following agreement:
"DNVER, COLORADO, Mareh 3, 1888.
"Know all men by these presents that I, John J. Henry,
acting as agent for Win. B. llanscome, of Wichita, Kansas,
have agreed to sell to H. S. De Sollar, of the city of Denver
and State of Colorado, the three lots owned by the said Win.
.. Hanscome situated on Clarkson Str. between 1i6th and 15th
avenues; 15th avenue is known as Colfax avenue ; - block,
numbers of lots not known, but they are believed to begin the
4th lot fron the corner of 15th street and are on the west side
of Clarkson Str., fronting east. The lots are each 25 ft. on
Clarkson St., running back to an alley, and are 145 ft. in
depth. Said De Sollar is to pay five thousand dollars, $5000,
for the lots above described, payments as follows, to wit:
Two hundred dollars, $200, in cash this day, the receipt
whereof is hereby acknowledged, and twenty-three hundred
dollars, $2300, on or before the evening of the 24th day of the
present month of March ; the remaining sum of the purchase
money, $2500, one-half, or $1250, is to be due and p)ayable
on or before one year from the date of deed, and the other
half, $1250 in two years, on or before, from date of deed,
each sum bearing interest at the rate of eight, 8, per cent per
annum, interest payable semi-annually; payment on these

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

deferred amounts to be secured by notes and deed of trust on
the property now bargained for.
"It is understood that a good, sufficient, and satisfactory
deed is to be made by the said Win. B. IHanscome for the said
described property on or before the 24th day of the present
month of March, at which time the papers are all to be dated
and executed. It is also further understood that the property
conveyed is to-be clean and clear of all incunbrance.
"_And it is further understood that if the said t. S. Do
Sollar is or should be in default in meeting the second payment herein provided for, then the $200 paid this day shall
be forfeited.
"JJNO. J. HENRY.

"H. S. DE, SOLLAR."
A few days thereafter defendant reached Denver and at
first, at least, repudiated the action of his agent. Subsequently
the plaintiff placed the letter and agreement on record, whereupon this defendant, as plaintiff, commenced an action at law
to recover damages. In the complaint he alleged ownership
of the lots, that the letter and agreement had been placed
upon the record for the purpose of clouding his record title,
that they did have the effect to cloud such title, and interfered
with his full enjoyment of the premises and the ready sale of
the lots, and prayed damages in the sum of $5000. To this
complaint an answer was filed, which, in addition to certain
denials, set forth that after ITanscome's arrival in Denver l
had fully approved, ratified, and confirmed the agreement
made by Henry, his agent, and that defendant had placed the
papers on record in good faith and to protect his own rights.
The case was tried before the court and a jury, and resulted
in a verdict and judgment for the defendant therein, the
plaintiff and appellant here.
In addition to these undisputed facts there is a conflict in
the testimony as to what took place at or about the time the
letter and agreement were placed on record. The defendant
insists that, though he at first refused to ratify the action of
his agent, he afterwards went to the plaintiff, and offered to

DE SOLLATI v. HANSCOME.
Opinion of the Court.

.carry out the contract, but the latter declined to proceed any
further with the matter; that subsequently the parties changed
front; the plaintiff insisted on carrying out the contract while
he declined to make a deed. It seems that on examination
there was found on record a receipt, signed by a man named
Dubbs, of $25, and purporting to be a receipt by him, as agent
of the defendant, of so much money on account of a sale of
the property, and that there was a dispute between the parties
as to whose duty it was to have this apparent cloud removed.
A r. Chapin. Brown for appellant. -Mr. Arthur I. O'Con'
nor was with him on the brief.
Mr. W. C. A-ingsley for appellee submitted on his brief.
MR. JUSTIcE BRPEWER,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
It is unnecessary to review the testimony as to the personal
negotiations between the parties after the defendant's arrival
in Denver, or to attempt to decide which of them most accurately recollects the transactions. It is enough to say that
there is a serious contradiction between them, and perhaps it
would be difficult to determine the real facts. The plaintiff
insists, and that is the burden of his contention, that the judgment in the law action is conclusive as to the fact of defendant's assent to the contract as executed by his agent, while
the defendant claims that it settles only that this plaintiff,
acting under the advice of counsel in placing the papers on
record, was guilty of no wilful or malicious wrong, and, therefore, not liable in damages. The same learned judge who
presided at the trial of the law action decided this case, and
we have before us his charge to the jury in that to compare
with his opinion in this case.
It is true that in his charge the judge said to the jury, "the,
chief question for your consideration, therefore, is whether
the plaintiff, by his conduct and by what lie did when he
came to know what had been done in his name, ratified and
confirmed this agreement;" but he also charged that there

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

was no question of punitive damages in the case, because, for
reasons stated, the defendant acted in good faith, and, in
respect to actual damages, said: "There is no direct showing
of damage, because the property, according to the testimony,
was, at the time the suit was brought, worth more than the
defendant was to pay for it, so that in respect to the value of
the property the plaintiff lost nothing by the delay, and it is
,only a question of what would be allowed by the jury for
doing a thing of that kind, filing a paper which gave to the
defendant no right and which he was not entitled to insist
upon, and which operated as a cloud upon the title' of the
plaintiff." And again: "The question is mainly whether
you will accept the plaintiff's account or the defendant's in
respect to the negotiations which took place between them
from the 12th to the 23d of March, 1888. If you decide that
the plaintiff's account is correct, you can return such damages
as he may be entitled to. If you agree with the defendant,
your finding ought to be for him."
Obviously, the jury, under these instructions, were at liberty
to find for the defendant, if they thought that in fact the
plaintiff had suffered no damages by the filing for record of
the letter and agreement. When the judge, speaking of
ratification, uses such expressions as "the chief question"
and "the question is mainly," he indicates the existence of
another though subordinate question. And when he charges
that punitive damages cannot be recovered, that there is no
direct evidence of any damage and that the jury may award
to plaintiff, if they find a ratification, "such damages as lie
may be entitled to," he plainly authorizes a verdict against
It may be said that if
the plaintiff for want of "damage."
a wrong was done the plaintiff was, technically, entitled to,
at least, nominal damages, but no instruction to that effect
was given. The charge was, ratification or no ratification,
damage or no damage. That the learned judge was of opinion
that the verdict of the jury was only a finding that the
plaintiff had suffered no damages, is probable from his opinion
in this case, for he says, in reference to his instructions:
"In other words, in a suit, for clouding the title, it must

DE SOLLAR v. HANSCOME.
Opinion of the Court.

appear that, the act of the defendant was wilful, and to a
considerable extent malicious, done with intent to injure the
owner of the property; and when there were negotiations
continued through many days in respect to the purchase of
the property, and which resulted in an agreement which was
full and complete in all its details, except that there were
some matters of difference between the parties touching the
title, it could not be said that the purchaser would be subject
to an action for putting the papers on record.
"There can be no reason to doubt the correctness of the
position assumed in the trial of that action, and that it was
well decided by the jury."
Now it is of the essence of estoppel by judgment that it
is certain that the precise fact was determined by the former
judgment.
" It is undoubtedly settled law that a judgment of a court
of competent jurisdiction, upon a question directly involved
in one suit, is conclusive as to that question in another suit
between the same parties. But to this operation of the judgment it must appear, either upon the face of the record or
be shown by extrinsic evidence, that the precise question
was raised and determined in the former suit. If there be
any uncertainty on this head in the record, as, for example,
if it appear that several distinct matters may have been litigated, upon one or more of which the judgment may have
passed, without indicating which of them was thus litigated, and
upon which the judgment was rendered, the whole subjectmatter of the action will be at large, and open to a new
contention, unless this uncertainty be removed by extrinsic
evidence showing the precise point involved and determined."
Riussell v. Place, 94 U. S. 606, 608.
There is in this case no extrinsic testimony tending to show
upon what the verdict of the jury was based. We have
simply the record of the former judgment, including therein
the testimony and the charge of the court from which to
determine that fact, and in the light of the charge it is
obviously a matter of doubt whether the jury found that the
agreement made by the agent was ratified by the principal,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

or that no damage had in fact been sustained by placing the
papers upon record. We are not now concerned with the
inquiry whether the instructions of the court were correct or
not. We look to them simply to see what questions were
submitted to the jury, and if they left it open to the jury to
find for the defendant upon either of the two propositions,
and the verdict does not specify upon which the jury acted,
there can be no certainty that they found upon one rather
than the other. The principal contention, therefore, of the
plaintiff fails.
This practically disposes of the case, for the testimony
leaves it doubtful whether there was any contract between
the parties. Obviously the agreement signed by Henry as
agent was not within the scope of the authority given.
Authority to sell for $5000, one-half cash, is not satisfied by
an agreement to sell for $5000, $200 cash, $2300 in three
weeks, and the balance on time. Further, the agreement was
not in fact for $5000, but only $4950, the agent calling it
$5000, and claiming only $100 as his commission instead of
$150. Whether the defendant afterwards ratified his agent's
action is a matter in respect to which the testimony is, as we
have stated, conflicting. And where the existence of a contract is a matter of doubt equity will not, as a rule, decree
specific performance, especially in a case like this where, as
appears, the property was rapidly rising in value.
We see no error in the conclusions of the Circuit Court, and
its decree is, therefore,
Affirmed.

EPISCOPAL CITY MISSION v. BROWN.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 250.

Submitted April 4, 1S95. -Decided

May 20, 1895.

M., after mortgaging lots in Boston to the Episcopal Mission, conveyed

them to the wife of B. with a clause in the deed that she thereby assumed

