OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

men law. In those courts they are very properly construed
as mere personal securities for the benefit of those parties to
whom they are given. In this place they are subject to more
enlarged considerations; they are here regarded as pledges
or substitutes for the thing itself, in all points fairly in the
adjudication before the court."
Even if this action had been at common law, it is not
altogether certain that the amendment, substituting the name
of the real party in interest for a nominal party, would not
be good. C/iapman v. Barney, 129 U. S. 677. The obligation of the sureties to respond for the damage done by the
Beaconsfield to her cargo was neither increased nor diminished
by a mere change in name of the party libellant.
All the questions certified are, therefore, answered in the
affirrnative.

ANDES v. ELY.
ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 295. Argued April 17,18, 1895. -Decided

May 20, 1895.

Lyons v. Munson, 99 U. S. 676, affirmed to the point that under c. 907 of the
laws of New York for 1869, the county judge was the officer charged by
law with the duty to decide whether municipal bonds could be legally
issued in payment of subscriptions to railroad stock, and that his judgment was conclusive till reversed by a higher court.
Orleans v. Platt, 99 U. S. 684, affirmed to the point that such a judgment
could not be collaterally attacked.
These judgments are not affected by Craig v. Andes, 93 N. Y. 405, as that
case has since been held by the Court of Appeals of New York to have
been a collusive case, and not to stand in the way of a refxamination.
The attaching a condition to his signature by a petitioner under that statute
of New York does not necessarily -vitiate it.
One who contracts with a corporation as such cannot afterwards avoid the
obligations so assumed by him on the ground that the supposed corporation was not one dejure.
If the county judge in a notice issued by him under that act fails to specify
the place at which the hearing on the petition will be had, it will be presumed that his regular office is the place intended for it.

ANDES v. ELY.
Statement of the Case.
When municipal bonds issued in payment of a subscription to railroad stock
recite on their face that all necessary steps have been taken to justify
their issue, the municipality is estopped from showing the contrary in an
action brought by a bona fide holder to enforce them.
A town, under the laws of the State of New York, is a corporation, so far as
respects the making of contracts, the right to sue, and the liability to be
sued.

ON September 1, 1871, the town of Andes, in the county of
Delaware, State of New York, issued ninety-eight thousand
dollars of its bonds in payment of a subscription to the capital
stock of the Delhi and Middletown Railroad Company, and
received in exchange therefor stock of said company to an
equal amount. The recitals in the bonds were as follows:
"Issued by virtue of an act of the legislature of the State
of New York entitled 'An act to authorize the formation of
railroad corporations and to regulate the same,' passed April
2, 1850, and an act to amend an act entitled An act to authorize the formation of railroad corporations and to regulate
the same, passed April 2, 1850, so as to permit municipal
corporations to aid in the construction of railroads, passed
May 18 (1869), 'sixty-nine, three-fifths being present."
"These acts authorize any city or town, except in the
counties of New York, Kings, Erie, Greene, Albany, Westchester, Ontario, Seneca, Yates, Onondaga, and Niagara, to
subscribe to the stock of any railroad corporation formed in
pursuance of said acts, and these acts authorize the town of
Andes to subscribe to the stock of the Delhi and Middletown
Railroad Company and to issue town bonds in payment
thereof, all necessary and legal proceedings having been taken
and had under said acts."
The act of 1869, referred to in these recitals, (Laws of New
York, 92d Sess., 1869, p. 2303,) contains these provisions:
" Sxc. 1. Whenever a majority of the taxpayers of any
municipal corporation in this State, whose names appear upon
the last preceding tax list or assessment role of said corporation as owning or representing a majority of the taxable property in the corporate limits of such corporation, shall make
application to the county judge of the county in which such

OCTOBER

TERM, 1894.

Statement of the Case.

corporation is situated, by petition verified by one of the
petitioners setting forth that they are such a majority of taxpayers and represent such a majority of taxable property, and
that they desire that such municipal corporation shall create
and issue its bonds to an amount named in such petition, (but
not to exceed twenty per centumn of the whole amount of taxable property as shown by said tax list and assessment roll,)
and invest the same or the proceeds thereof in the stock or
bonds (as said petition may direct) of such railroad company
in this State as may be named in said petition, it shall be the
duty of said county judge to order that a notice shall be forthwith published in some newspaper in such county, or if there
be no newspaper published in said county, then in some newspaper printed in an adjoining county, directed to whom it
may concern, setting 'forth that, on a day therein named,
which shall not be less than ten days nor more than thirty
days from the date of such publication, he will proceed to
take proof of the facts set forth in said* petition as to the
number of taxpayers joining in such petition, and as to the
amount of taxable property represented by them."
"Sxc. 2. It shall be the duty of the said judge at the time
and place named in the said notice to proceed to take proof
as to the said allegations in said petition; and if it shall appear satisfactorily to him that the said petitioners, or the said
petitioners and such other taxpayers of said town as may then
and there appear before him and express a desire to join as
petitioners in said petition, do represent a majority of the
taxpayers of said municipal corporation as shown by the last
preceding tax list or assessment roll, and do represent a majority of the taxable property upon said list or roll, he shall
so adjudge and determine and cause the same to be entered
of record. And such judgment and the record thereof shall
have the same force and effect as other judgments and records
in courts of record in this State."
The bonds were issued by virtue of the following proceedings: On May 6, 1871, a petition of certain taxpayers of the
town of Andes was presented to the county judge of Delaware
County, upon which an order was entered and notice given,

ANDES v. ELY.
Statement of the Case.

as required by the statute, which order and notice were in
these words:
"To whom it may concern:
"Notice is hereby given that a petition purporting to be
signed by a majority of the taxpayers of the town of Andes,
in the county of Delaware, representing a majority of the taxable property in the limits of said town, duly verified by one
of the petitioners, has been filed in my office, and that I shall
proceed on the 22d day of May next, at 1 o'clock P.m., to
take proof of the facts set forth in said petition as to the number of taxpayers joining in such petition and as to the amount
of taxable property represented by them.
" Given under my hand, at Delhi, in said county, on the 6th
"EDWIN D. WAGNER,
day of May, 1871.
" County Judge of Delaware County.
"On reading and filing the annexed petition of a majority
of the taxpayers of the town of Andes, Delaware County,
representing a majority of the taxable property in the limits
of said town, verified by James H. Davis, one of said petitioners, setting forth that they are such a majority of taxpayers
and represent such a majority of the taxable property, and
that they desire said town of Andes shall create and issue its
bonds to the amount of ninety-eight thousand dollars and
invest the same or the proceeds thereof in the stock of the
Delhi and Middletown Railroad Company, an association
formed in said county and State.
"Now, on motion of White and Jacobs, attorneys for said
petitioners, [ordered] that a notice be forthwith published in
the Andes Recorder, a newspaper published in said county,
directed to whom it may concern, that on the 22d day of May,
1871, I shall proceed to take proof of the facts set forth in said
petition as to the number of taxpayers joining in such petition
and as to the amount of the taxable property represented by
them.
"Delhi, May 6th, 1871.
" EDWIN D. WA NECn,

" Coutnty Judge of D)elaware county."

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

Due publication thereof was made. The petition referred
to was upon nineteen separate sheets of paper, each of them
containing the petition in full and each signed by different
taxpayers. Sixteen of them were unconditional; to two of
them was attached a condition, "that said road is located by
Fish Lake and Shavertown ;" and one of them had this proviso, " above conditions (consent) shall be null and void unless
said road shall be located by Shavertown and Lumberville."
On the day named in the notice, to wit, May 22, 1871, two
orders were entered, the first, after stating the presentation of
the petition, the order for notice, proof of publication of notice
and of the allegations in the petition, ended with this adjudication :
"I do hereby adjudge and determine that said petitioners
do represent a majority of the taxpayers of said town of
Andes, Delaware County, as shown by the last preceding tax
list or assessment roll, and do represent a majority of the taxable property upon said list or roll, and do hereby adjudge
and determine that the same be entered of record.
"Given under my hand, at Delhi, in said county, on the 22d
day of May, 1871.
"EDWIN D. WAGNER,
"County Judge of t/e County of Delaware."
The second appointed the three commissioners required by
the act to carry out its provisions. Subsequently, one of the
commissioners having resigned, another was appointed in his
place, and the three thus appointed acted on behalf of the
town in issuing the bonds.
From the time of their issue, down to and including September 1, 1881, the town regularly paid the interest as it fell
due upon the bonds, and also paid and retired $ 3000 of the
principal thereof. Thereafter, some question having arisen as
to the validity of the bonds, the town defaulted in payment
of further interest, and on December 30, 1889, the defendant
in error brought this action in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of New York on coupons cut
from such bonds. Answer having been filed, the case was

ANDES

v. ELY.

Opinion of the Court.

tried December 31, 1890, and the jury, by direction of the
court, returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff for the sum
of $32,324.80. To reverse this judgment the defendant sued
out this writ of error.
Xr.W. 1. Johnson for plaintiff in error.

.Mr. John B. Gleason for defendant in error.
1MR. JUSTIcE

BREWER,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The act of 1869 has been heretofore presented to this court
for consideration, and the effect of a judgment of a county
judge determined. Orleans v. Ptlatt, 99 U. S. 676; Lyons v.
Jlunson, 99 U. S. 684. In the former case it was said:
"The county judge was the officer charged by law with the
duty to decide whether the bonds could be legally issued, and
his judgment was conclu.ive until reversed by a higher court."
And in the latter:
"The county judge unquestionably had jurisdiction to decide
upon the application made by the taxpayers. His judgment
until reversed was final. If therewere errors the proceedings
should have been brought before a higher court for review by
a writ of certiorari,and, if need be, the issuing and circulation
of the bonds should have been enjoined, subject to the final
result of the litigation. The judgment rendered can no more
be collaterally attacked in this case than could any other judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction rendered with the
parties, as in this case, properly before it."
It is objected that since those decisions the Court of Appeals
of the State of New York has pronounced the very judgment
on the strength of which these bonds were issued invalid.
Craig v. Town of Andes, 93 N. Y. 405. In that case the
Court of Appeals, by a bare majority, held that the petition
was fatally defective because it was, as to some of the petitioners, conditional, and that, by reason thereof, it warranted
no action by the county judge. But in the subsequent case of
Calloun v. Millard, 121 N. Y. 69, it was developed that Craig

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

v. Town, of Andes was a collusive action, the town owning the
coupons sued on and paying for the services of counsel on both
sides. And it was held that the decision so obtained could
not be considered as an adjudication binding the bondholders
in any subsequent controversy between them and the town,
the court saying: "We fully assent to the claim of the counsel for the bondholders, that an adjudication obtained under
such circumstances ought not to stand in the way of a reexamination by the court of the grounds upon which it
proceeded."
It is true that the court did not reexamine the proposition
affirmed in the former opinion, but, after thus indicating that
the question was open for further consideration, disposed of
the case upon other grounds. The question must, therefore,
be considered an open one in the courts of New York, and
there is nothing in the decisions of those courts to compel a
reexamination by us of our prior rulings.
Several objections, however, to the validity of this judgment
are called to our attention, and require notice. The first and
principal one arises out of the fact, considered vital by the
Court of Appeals in the case of Craig v. The Town of Andes,
supra,that the petition was, as to some of the petitioners, conditional. It is admitted that if the names of the conditional
petitioners were stricken from the list, the remainder would
not constitute a majority of the taxpayers, or represent a
majority of the taxable property. The argument is that a
conditional petition amounts to nothing. The unconditional
petitioners were neither a majority of the taxpayers nor representing a majority of the taxable property. The statutory
petition was never filed. The condition upon which action
by the county judge could legally be had did not exist. He,
therefore, never acquired any jurisdiction, and his judgment
was corain nonjudice and void.
We are unable to assent to this contention. The petition
as presented alleged that the petitioners were a majority of
the taxpayers, and represented a majority of the taxable property. It thus stated the facts necessary to invoke the action
of the county judge. It nowhere disclosed the amount of the

ANDES v. ELY.
Opinion of the Court.

taxable property in the town, or the number of the taxpayers,
and nowhere stated how much of such taxable property belonged to the petitioners, either separately or altogether.
There was but a single verification, and that at the bottom
of one of the nineteen sheets upon which the petition was written. That sheet was signed by over forty names, and signed
unconditionally. It is fair, however, to regard the nineteen
sheets, though in form separate, as really constituting but one
petition, and the single verification, which was made on May
6, 1871, the day of presentation to the judge, as applicable to
such petition as a whole. Otherwise this single verified sheet
was a perfect petition, open to no objection and compelling
action by the county judge; and if this case is to turn on
narrow grounds then each sheet may be considered a separate petition, and one being technically beyond objection, the
others may be ignored, and the jurisdiction of the county
judge rested upon that one.
But we are not disposed to rest our conclusion upon this
narrow ground. There was but the one petition, signed by
about 200 parties, of whom 50 attached a condition to their
signatures. Was that sufficient to defeat the jurisdiction ?
The conditions named were the location of the road by Fish
Lake, Shavertown, and Lumberville. The various sheets coinposing the petition were all dated November 23, 1870, but the
verification and the filing were May 6, 1871. Intermediate
thes two dates, and on March 4, 1871, the railroad company
filed in the office of the clerk of Delaware County a map of
the route selected by it, certified by its president and chief
engineer to be "a correct map and profile of the route
intended to be adopted by said company for their railroad."
An examination of the route thus located shows that it passes
by the three places named, so that at the time the petition
was filed the conditions had been performed by the railroad
company. Is it not fair to hold that the petition was at the
time of its presentation an unconditional petition on the part
of all the signers? There was in fact no limitation or restriction on the express request of all the petitioners for the issue
of the bonds. At least when such a petition was presented,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

it was within the competency of the county judge to hear and
determine whether or no the conditions named had been performed. The petition called for some action. The duty of
judicial inquiry arose, and there can be no judicial inquiry
without jurisdiction. ie was compelled to examine and determine whether the verification was in proper form, whether
there were in fact the signatures of any petitioners on the paper,
whether any railroad company was named, and whether there
was an application for the issue of bonds, and if there were
any limitation or qualification to a signature, whether such
limitation or qualification affected substantially the merits of
the application. If he found a condition of a substantial character he was then called upon to ascertain and decide whether
the condition had been waived, or so far performed since the
signature as to cease to be any limitation upon the petition.
An error in his rulings upon any of these matters did not oust
him of jurisdiction. This, it must be borne in mind, is not
the case of a total failure in respect to any particular matter
required by the statute to be stated in the petition.
But we may go further, and bold that attaching a condition
to a petition does not always and necessarily vitiate it. A
subscription by a municipality to the stock of a railroad company stands upon a different footing from one made by an
individual. In the latter case it is a mere transaction for purposes of pecuniary gain, and there is no limitation on the
right of the individual to subscribe to the stock of any railroad
corporation, no matter where such corporation proposes to
build its road. But a municipal subscription requires something more than the mere prospect of pecuniary gain. It can
be upheld only on the theory that by the construction of the
road some public benefit to the municipality is secured, and
that public benefit may justify, and sometimes require, the
insertion in the subscription of a condition in respect to the
matter of location. A railroad corporation naming the termini of its road has large latitude in respect to the location of
the intermediate route. One location may be so far from
a particular town between the termini as to make indefensible a subscription by such town in aid of the construction,

ANDES v. ELY.

321

Opinion of the Court.

and to incorporate a condition in the subscription which makes
the location one of public benefit to the town cannot be held
absolutely void. Suppose the entire petition .had been for the
issue of bonds on condition that the road should be located
through the town of Andes, could it be adjudged that such a
petition was a nullity and laid no foundation for action by the
county judge? We think not.
While courts may properly see to it that proceedings' for
casting burdens upon a community comply with all the substantial requisitions of a statute in order that no such burden
may be recklessly or fraudulently imposed, yet such statutes
are not of a criminal character, and proceedings are not to be
so technically construed and limited as to make them a mere
snare to those who are encouraged to invest in the securities
of the municipality. These considerations are appropriate to
this case. The proceedings on the part of the town and the
railroad company were carried on in evident good faith. No
one questioned their validity, no effort was made to review
the action of the county judge, the bonds were issued, more
than $100,000 was spent within the limits of the town in the
construction of the road, and years went by during which the
town paid the interest and part of the principal before any
question was made as to their validity. We think there is
eminent wisdom and justice in the observations of the Court
of Appeals in the case of Calhoun v. Millard, supra:
"The town and the taxpayers permitted the bonds to be
dealt with and taken by savings banks and others for nearly
ten years, not only without, so far as appears, a word of warning or protest, but by affirmative acts of recognition, encouraged investment therein as safe and valid securities.
The
bonds, resting on the adjudication of the county judge, were
apparently valid. The legislature has still the power to ratify
them and make them valid obligations of the town.
JIilliams v. Town of Duanesburgh, 66 N. Y. 129; Iorton v.
Town qf Thonpson, 71 N. Y 513 ; Rogers v. Stephens, 86 N. Y.
623. They are now in the hands of bona fide holders, that is,
of persons who have paid value for them without notice.
The denial of relief in this case may result practiVOL. CLVin-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1894,
Opinion of the Court.

cally in the enforcement of the bonds in question, and also of
other town bonds issued and held under similar circumstances.
But in contrasting the relative conduct and situation of the
town and the taxpayers on the one side, and the purchasers
of bonds on the other, we cannot say that such a result will
be repugnant to any principle of justice or equity."
Again, it is objected that there was no legal incorporation
of the Delhi and Middletown Railroad Company. The statutory provisions of the State of New York in respect to the
formation of railroad corporations are found in chapter 140,
Laws of 1850; Rev. Stat. N. Y. 6th ed. vol. 2, p. 519. The
record shows that the articles of association, duly verified,
were filed and recorded in the office of the Secretary of State,
as required by section 2 of the act. The objection is that the
statute requires that there shall be subscribed at least $1000
of stock for every mile of railroad proposed to be laid, and
that, as appears from the articles, certain subscriptions were
made on condition that the road was located through Lumberville, and others, provided the road went to Shavertown.
These subscriptions being conditional it is claimed amount to
nothing, and as the unconditional subscriptions are less than
$1000 per mile of the proposed road, it is insisted that the
attempted incorporation was a failure. We deem it unnecessary to consider this question, for it is familiar law that one
who contracts with a corporation as such cannot afterwards
avoid the obligations assumed by such contract on the ground
that the supposed corporation was not one de jure. Leavenworth v. Barnes, 94 U. S.70 ; Commissioners v. Bolles, 94 U. S.
104; Casey v. Galli, 94 U. S.673; CG/ubb v. Upton, 95 U. S.665.
Further, after the contract had been made, the bonds issued,
and the stock received by the town, the legislature of the
State of New York passed, in two successive years, acts
authorizing the town to sell and dispose of such stock. At
a special town meeting, held after the passage of the first act,
the town voted not to sell, and at a meeting held after the
second act it voted to sell. These two acts of the legislature
were distinct recognitions of the existence of the corporation
known as the Delii and Middletown Railroad Company,

ANDES v. ELY.
Opinion of the Court.

whose stock, held by the town, the latter was permitted to
sell. Cognanche County v. Lewis, 133 U. S. 198; State ex rel.
v. Comnmissioners &c.,12 Kansas, 426; State v. Stevens, 21
Kansas 210; State v. 1am ilton, 40 Kansas 323. There is
no evidence of any challenge on the part of the State of
the validity of the corporate franchises assumed to exist, and
exercised by the company. In view of these considerations it
is impossible now to recognize as valid the claim that by
reason of the supposed defect in the original incorporation all
the acts of the town, in respect to the issue of bonds, the subscription to and the receiving of stock, were void.
Again, it is objected that the proceedings before the county
judge were absolutely void on the ground that the notice does
not specify the place at which the hearing on the petition is
to be had. It is enough to say in reply to this objection that
where a notice fails to name any other place it will be presumed that the place intended is the regular office of the
county judge. No particular specification is required unless
the hearing is to be had at some place other than that at
which his judicial work is customarily done. The statute
under which these proceedings were had recognizes this. The
section which provides for notice prescribes that the county
judge shall order the publication of a notice "setting forth
that on a day therein named . . . he will proceed to take
proof," etc. Nothing is said in respect to naming a place for
the hearing, and yet the next section commences, "it shall be
the duty of the said judge at the time and place named in the
said notice," etc. Any seeming discrepancy between these
sections is removed by the consideration that in the absence
of other specification the law writes into the notice the office
of the county judge as the place of hearing.
A further objection is that the county judge was disqualified
on the ground that he was at the time a stockholder in
the Delhi and Middletown Railroad Company, and this provision of the Revised Statutes of the State of New York is
cited, "That no judge of any court can sit as such in any cause
to which he is a party, or in which he is interested, or in
which he would be excluded from being a juror by reason of

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

consangitunity or affinity to either of the parties." The
name of the county judge appears on the articles of association, filed with the Secretary of State, as a subscriber to one
share of stock; but his testimony, which is not contradicted,
is as follows:
"I signed for one share of stock, and the next day I stated
to the person with whom I took the stock that I would not
take it, and he agreed to take my name off.
I don't know
who it was, and I can't tell as I signed my name or not. I
know I saw the proper person and cancelled my agreement to.
take the stock, and I never took it; it was agreed that I
should not. I think it was the same person I saw first when
I made the agreement. The bonding proceedings of the
town of Andes were had before me as county judge. The
talk as to my taking stock was some time before the proceedings were -had before me. The certificate of stock was
never tendered or offered to me."
Obviously he was not a party interested, and therefore,
there is no need to inquire whether, if interested, the fact
could now be shown in a collateral attack so as to avoid the
judgment.
But further, in view of the recitals in the bonds, are these
questions open for inquiry ? Ample authority was given by
the statutes of the State referred to. Whether the various
steps were taken which in this particular case justified the
issue of the bohds was a question of fact; and when the bonds.
on their face recite that those steps have been taken it is the
settled rule of this court that in an action brought by a bona
fide holder the municipality is estopped from showing the contrary. See the many cases commencing with IKnox County v.
Aspinwall, 21 How. 539, and ending with Citizens' Savings
Association v. Perry Qounty, 156 U. S.692. It may be said
that those decisions are not wholly in point, inasmuch as these
bonds were signed, not by regular officers, but by commissioners specially appointed; and that before a recital made
by them can be held to conclude the town it must appear
that they were duly appointed, and thus had authority to act.
Doubtless this distinction is not without significance.
Yet

ANDES v. ELY.
Opinion of the Court.

they were acting comlissioners, and their authority was recognized, for each bond was registered in the office of the
county clerk, and attested by the signature of the county clerk
with the seal of the county; and if we go back of that to the
records of the county judge, the appointing power, there
appears there a separate order, in due form, appointing
them commissioners, which order recites a prior adjudication
of all the essential facts. Giving full force to the distinction which exists between the action of general and special
officers, there must be, even in respect to the latter, some
point in the line of inquiry back of which a party dealing
in bonds of a municipality is not bound to go in his investigations as to their authority to represent the municipality,
and that point it would seem was reached when there is found
an appointment in due form made by the appointing tribunal
named in the statute. However, as our examination of all the
proceedings in fact had in respect to the issue of these bonds
satisfies us of their validity, it is unnecessary to rely upon the
mere recitals.
Finally, the jurisdiction of the trial court is challenged on
the ground that under the act of Congress of March 3, 1887,
c. 373, 24 Stat. 552, as amended by the act of August 13, 1888,
c. 866, 25 Stat. 433, a subsequent holder of negotiable paper
payable to bearer cannot invoke the jurisdiction of the Federal courts unless the original holder was also entitled to sue
therein. But the statute excepts from this provision instruments made by a corporation, and a town under the laws of
the State of New York is a corporation, so far as respects the
making of contracts, the right to sue and the liability to be
sued. lorillardv. Monroe, 11 N. Y. 392.
These are the only questions which are of sufficient importance to require notice. We see no errors in the rulings of
the Circuit Court, and its judgment is, therefore,
Aff!ired.

