OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

under the facts stated in the application for the writ of habeas
corpus, Lem Moon Sing was entitled, of right, under some law
or treaty, to reenter the United States. We mean only to
decide that that question has been constitutionally committed
by Congress to named officers of the executive department of
the government for final determination.
The judgmnent of the court below denying the aj)plieationj
for
the writ of habeas co)u8 is affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

dissented.

BABE BEARD v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR

TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

WESTERN DISTRICT
No. 842.

THE
OF

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

ARKANSAS.

Submitted March 13, 1895. - Decided May 27, 1895.

A man assailed on his own grounds, without provocation, by a person
armed with a deadly weapon and apparently seeking his life, is not
obliged to retreat, but may stand his ground and defend himself with
such means as are within his control; and so long as there is no intent
on his part to kill his antagonist, and no purpose of doing anything
beyond what is necessary to save his own life, is not guilty of murder
or manslaughter if death results to his antagonist from a blow given
him under such circumstances.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
M1r. John I. Rogers and Mr. Ira D. Oglesby for plaintiff in
error.
-Mr. Assistant Attorney General Dickinson for the United
States.
VIn. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error, a white man and not an Indian, was
indicted in the Circuit Court of the United States for the

BEARD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Western District of Arkansas for the crime of having killed
and murdered in the Indian country, and within that District,
one Will Jones, also a white person and not an Indian.
lie was found guilty of manslaughter and, a motion for a
new trial having been overruled, it was adjudged that he be
imprisoned in Kings County Penitentiary, at Brooklyn, New
York, for the term of eight years, and pay to the United
States a fine of five hundred dollars.
The record contains a bill of exceptions embodying all the
evidence, as well as the charge of the court to the jury, and
the requests of the accused for instructions. To certain parts
of the charge, and to the action of the court in refusing instructions asked by the defendant, exceptions were duly taken.
The principal question in the case arises out of those parts
of the charge in which the court instructed the jury as to the
principles of the law of self-defence.
There was evidence before the jury tending to establish the
following facts:
An angry dispute arose between Beard and three brothers
by the name of Jones - Will Jones, John Jones, and Edward
Jones-in reference to a cow which a few years before that
time, and just after the death of his mother, was set apart to
Edward. The children being without any means for their
support were distributed among their relatives, Edward being
assigned to Beard, whose wife was a sister of Mrs. Jones.
Beard took him into his family upon the condition that he
should have the right to control him and the cow as if the
lad were one of his own children, and the cow his own property. At the time Edward went to live with Beard he was
only eight or nine years of age, poorly clad, and not in good
physical condition.
After remaining some years with his aunt and uncle, Edward
Jones left the Beard house, and determined, with the aid of
his older brothers, to take the cow with him, each of them
knowing that the accused objected to that being done.
The Jones brothers, one of them taking a shot-gun with
him, went upon the premises of the accused for the purpose
of taking the cow away, whether Beard consented or not.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

But they were prevented by the accused from accomplishing
that object, and he warned them not to come to his place
again for such a purpose, informing them that if Edward
Jones was entitled to the possession of the cow, he could have
it, provided his claim was successfully asserted through legal
proceedings instituted by or in his behalf.
Will Jones, the oldest of the brothers, and about 20 or 21
years of age, publicly avowed his intention to get the cow
away from the Beard farm or kill Beard, and of that threat
the latter was informed on the day preceding that on which
the fatal difficulty in question occurred.
In the afternoon of the day on which the Jones brothers
were warned by Beard not again to come upon his premises
for the cow unless attended by an officer of the law, and in
defiance of that warning, they again went to his farm, in his
.absence- one of them, the deceased, being armed with a concealed deadly weapon -and attempted to take the cow away,
but were prevented from doing so by Mrs. Beard, who drove
it back into the lot from which it was being taken.
While the Jones brothers were on the defendant's premises
in the afternoon, for the purpose of taking the cow away,
Beard returned to his home from a town near by -having
with him a shot-gun that lie was in the habit of carrying,
when absent from home - and went at once from his dwelling into the lot, called the orchard lot, a distance of about 50
or 60 yards from his house and near to that part of an adjoining field or lot where the cow was, and in which the Jones
brothers and Mrs. Beard were at the time of the difficulty.
Beard ordered the Jones brothers to leave his premises.
They refused to leave. Thereupon Will Jones, who was on
the opposite side of the orchard fence, ten or fifteen yards only
from Beard, moved towards the latter with an angry manner
and in a brisk walk, having his left band (he being, as Beard
knew, left-handed) in the left pocket of his trousers. When
he got within five or six steps of Beard, the latter warned him
to stop, but he did not do so. As he approached nearer the
accused asked him what he intended to do, and he replied:
"Damn you, I will show you," at the same time making a

BEARD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

movement with his left hand as if to draw a pistol from his
pocket; whereupon the accused struck him over the head with
his gun and knocked him down.
"Believing," the defendant testified, "from his demonstrations just mentioned that he intended to shoot me, I struck
him over the head with my gun to prevent him killing me.
As soon as I struck him his brother John, who was a few
steps behind him, started towards me with his hands in his
pocket. Believing that he intended to take part in the difficulty and was also armed, I struck him and he stopped. I
then at once jumped over the fence, caught Will Jones by the
lapel of the coat, turned him rather to one side, and pulled his
left hand out of his pocket. He had a pistol, which I found
in his pocket, grasped in his left hand, and I pulled his pistol
and his left hand out together. My purpose in doing this was
to disarm him, to prevent him from shooting me, as I did not
know how badly he was hurt. My gun was loaded, having
ten cartridges in the magazine. I could have shot him, but
did not want to kill him, believing that I could knock him
down with the gun and disarm him and protect myself without shooting him. After getting his pistol, John Jones said
something to me about killing him, to which I replied that I
had not killed him and did not try to do so, for if I had I
,could have shot him. Ile said my gun was not loaded; thereupon I shot the gun in the air to show him that it was
loaded."
Dr. Howard Hunt, a witness on behalf of the government,
testified that he called to see Will Jones soon after he was
hurt, and found him in a serious condition; that he died from
the effects of a wound given by the defendant; that the
wound was across the head, rather on the right side, the skull
being crushed by the blow. Ile saw the defendant soon after
dressing the wound, and told him that the deceased's condition was serious, and that he, the witness, was sorry the occurrence had happened. The witness suggested to the accused
that perhaps he had better get out of the way. The latter
replied that he was sorry that it had happened, but that he
acted in self-defence and would not go away. Beard seemed

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

a little offended at the suggestion that he should run off, and
observed to the witness that the latter could not scare him,
for he was perfectly justified in what he did. This witness
further testified that he had known the defendant four or five
years, was well acquainted in the neighborhood in which he
lived, and knew his general reputation, which was that of a
peaceable, law-abiding man.
The account we have given of the difficulty is not in harmony, in every particular, with the testimony of some of the
witnesses, but it is sustained by what the accused and others
testified to at the trial; 'so that, if the jury had found the facts
to be as we have detailed them, it could not have been said
that their finding was contrary to the evidence. At any rate,
it was the duty of the court to tell the jury by what principles
of law they should be guided, in the event they found the
facts to be as stated by the accused.
Assuming then that the facts were as we have represented
them to be, we are to inquire whether the court erred in its
charge to the jury. In the view we take of the case, it will
be necessary to refer to those parts only of the charge relating
to the law of self-defence.
The court stated at considerable length the general rules
that determine whether the killing of a human being is murder
or manslaughter, and, among other things, said to the jury: "If
these boys, or young men, or whatever you may consider them,
they
went down there, and they were there unlawfully -if
had no right to go there- you naturally inquire whether the
defendant was placed in such a situation as that he could kill
for that reason. Of course, he could not. He could not kill
them because they were upon his place. . . . And if these
young men were there in the act of attempting the larceny of
this cow and calf and the defendant killed because of that,
because his mind was inflamed for the reason that they were
seeking to do an act of that kind, that is manslaughter; that
is all it is; there is nothing else in it; that is considered so far
provocative as that it reduces the grade of the crime to manslaughter and no farther. If they had no intent to 'commit a
larceny; if it was a bare, naked trespass; if they were there

BEARD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

under a claim of right to get this cow, though they may not
have had any right to it, but in good faith they were exercising their claim of that kind, and Will Jones was killed by the
defendant for that reason, that would be murder, because you
cannot kill a man for bare trespass - you cannot take his life
for a bare trespass - and say the act is mitigated."
After restating the proposition that a man cannot take life
because of mere fear on his part, or in order that he may
prevent the commission of a bare trespass, the court proceeded:
"Now, a word further upon the proposition that I have already
adverted to as to what was his duty at the time. If that danger was real, coming from the hands of Will Jones, or it was
apparent as coining from his hands and as affecting this
defendant by some overt act at the time, was the defendant
called upon to avoid that danger by getting out of the way
of it if he could? The court says he was. The court tells
you that he was. There is but one place where he need not
retreat any further, where he need not go away from the danger, and that is in his dwelling-house. He may be upon his
own premises, and if a man, while so situated and upon his own
premises, can do that which would reasonably put aside the
danger short of taking life, if he can do that, I say, he is
called upon to do so by retreating, by getting out of the way if
he can, by avoiding a conflict that may be about to come upon
him, and the law says that he must do so, and thefact that he is
standing upon his own premises away from his own dwelling-

house does not take away from him the exercise of the duty
of avoiding the danger if he can with a due regard to his own
safety by getting away from there or by resorting to some
other means of less violence than those resorted to. Now, the

rule as applicable to a man of that kind upon his own premises,
upon his own property, but outside of his dwelling-house, is as

I have just stated." Again: "You are to bear in mind that
the first proposition of the law of self-defence was that the
defendant in this case was in the lawful pursuit of his business
- that is to say, he was doing what he had a right to do at
the time. If he was not he deprives himself of the right of
self-defence, and, no matter what his adversary may do, if he;

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

by his own conduct creates certain conditions by his own
wrongful conduct he cannot take advantage of such conditions
created by his own wrongful act or acts. . . . Again, going
to the place where the person slain is with a deadly weapon
for the purpo8e of provoleing a di/fulty or with the i9tent of
having an affray. Now, if a man does that, he is in the
wrong, and he is cut off from the right of self-defence, no
matter what his adversary may do, because the law says in the
very language of these propositions relating to the law of selfdefence that he must avoid taking life if he can with due
regard to his own safety. Whenever he can do that he must
do it; therefore, if he has an adversary and he knows that
there is a bitter feeling, that there is a state of feeling that
may precipitate a deadly conflict between himself and his adversary, while he has a right to pursue his usual daily avocations
that are right and proper, going about his business, to go and
do what is necessary to be done in that way, yet if he knows
that condition I have named to exist and he goes to the place
where the slain person is with a deadly weapon for the purpose of provoking a difficulty or with the intent of having an
affray if it comes up, he is there to have it, and he acts for
that purpose, the law says there is no self-defence for him.
. . . If he went to the place where that young man was,
armed with a deadly weapon, even if it was upon his own
premises, with the purpose of provoking a difficulty with him,
in which he might use that deadly weapon, or of having a
deadly affray with him, it does not make any difference what
was done by the young man, there is no self-defence for the
defendant. The law of self-defence does not apply to a case
of that kind, because he cannot be the creator of a wrong,
of a wrong state of case, and then act upon it. Now, if
either one of these conditions exist, I say, the law of selfdefence does not apply in this case."
Later in the charge, the court recurred to the inquiry as to
what the law demanded of Beard before striking the deceased
with his gun, and said : "If at the time of this killing it be
true that the deceased was doing an act of apparent or real
deadly violence and that state of case existed, and yet that

BEARD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the defendant at the time could have avoided the necessity
of taking his life by the exercise of any other reasonable
means and he did hot do that, because he did not exercise other
reasonable means that would have with equal certainty saved
his life, but resorted to this dernier remedy, under those facts
and circumstances the law says he is guilty of manslaughter.
Now, let us see what that requires. It requires, first, that the
proof must show that Will Jones was doing an act of violence
or about to do it, or apparently doing it or about to do it, but
that it was an act that the defendant could have escaped
from by doing something else other than taking the life of
Jones, by getting out of the way of that danger,as he was called
upon to do, as I have already told you, for he could not stand
there as he could stand in his own dwelling-house, and he must
have reasonably sought to avoid that danger before he took
the life of Jones, and if he did not do that, if you find that to
be Jones' position from this testimony, and he could have done
so, but did not do it, the defendant would be guilty of manslaughter when he took the life of Jones, because in that kind
of a case the law says that the conduct of Jones would be so
provocative as to reduce the grade of crime; yet, at the same
time, it was a state of case that the defendant could have!
avoided without taking his life, and because he did not do it
he is guilty of the crime of manslaughter." Further: " If it
be true that Will Jones at the time he was killed was exercising deadly violence, or about to do so, or apparently exercising
it, or apparently about to do so, and the defendant could
have paralyzed the effect of that violence without taking the
life of Jones, but he did not do it, but resorted to this deadly
violence when he could have protected his own life without
resorting to that dernier remedy - if that be the state of case,
the law says he is guilty of manslaughter, because he is doing
that which he had no right to do. This great law of selfdefence commands him at all times to do that which he can
do under the circumstances, to wit, exercise reasonable care to
avoid the danger by getting oWt qf the way of it, or by exercising less violence than that which will produce death and yet
will be equally effective to secure his own life. If either of

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

these propositions exist, and they must exist to the extent I
have defined to you, and the defendant took the life of Jones
under these circumstances, the defendant would be guilty of
manslaughter."
. We are of opinion that the charge of the court to the jury
was objectionable, in point of law, on several grounds.
There was no evidence tending to show that Beard went
from his dwelling-house to the orchard fence for the purpose
of provoking a difficulty, or with the intent of having an affray
with the Jones brothers or with either of them. On the contrary, from the outset of the dispute, he evinced a purpose to
avoid a difficulty or an affray. He expressed his willingness
to abide by the law in respect to his right to retain the cow in
his possession. He warned the Jones brothers, as he had a
legal right to do, against coining upon his premises for the
purpose of taking the cow away. They disregarded this warning, and determined to take the law into their own hands,
whatever might be the consequences of such a course. Nevertheless, when Beard came to where they were, near the orchard
fence, he did nothing to provoke a difficulty, and prior to the
moment when he struck Will Jones with his gun he made no
demonstration that indicated any desire whatever on his part
to engage in an affray or to have an angry controversy. He
only commanded them, as he had the legal right to do, to leave
his premises. He neither used, nor threatened to use, force
against them.
The court several times, in its charge, raised or suggested
the inquiry whether Beard was in the lawful pursuit of his
business, that is, doing what he had a right to do, when, after
returning home in the afternoon, he went from his dwellinghouse to a part of his premises near the orchard fence, just
outside of which his wife and the Jones brothers were engaged
in a dispute -the
former endeavoring to prevent the cow
from being taken away, the latter trying to drive it off the
premises. Was he not doing what he had the legal right to
do, when, keeping within his own premises and near his dwelling, he joined his wife who was in dispute with others, one of
whom, as he had been informed, had already threatened to take

BEARD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the cow away or kill him? We have no hesitation in answering this question in the affirmative.
The court also said: "The use of provoking language, or,
it seems, resorting to any other device in order to get another
to commence an assault so as to have a pretext for taking his
life, agreeing with another to fight him with a deadly weapon,
either one of these cases, if they exist as the facts in this case,
puts the case in such an attitude that there is no self-defence
in it." We are at a loss to understand why any such hypothetical cases were put before the jury. The jury must have supposed that, in the opinion of the court, there was evidence
showing that Beard sought an opportunity to do physical harm
to the Jones boys, or to some one of them. There was not the
slightest foundation in the evidence for the intimation that
Beard had used provoking language or resorted to any device
in order to have a pretext to take the life of either of the
brothers. Much less was there any reason to believe that
there was an agreement to fight with deadly weapons.
But the court below committed an error of a more serious
character when it told the jury, as in effect it did by different
forms of expression, that if the accused could have saved his
own life and avoided taking the life of Will Jones by retreating
from and getting out of the way of the latter as he advanced
upon him, the law made it his duty to do so; and if he did
not, when it was in his power to do so without putting his
own life or body in imminent peril, he was guilty of manslaughter. The court seemed to think if the deceased had
advanced upon the accused while the latter was in his dwellinghouse and under such circumstances as indicated the intention
of the former to take life or inflict great bodily injury, and if,
without retreating, the accused had taken the life of his assailant, having at the time reasonable grounds to believe, and in
good faith believing, that his own life would be taken or great
bodily harm done him unless he killed the accused, the case
would have been one of justifiable homicide. To that proposition we give our entire assent. But we cannot agree that the
accused was under any greater obligation, when on his own
premises, near his dwelling-house, to retreat or run away

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

from his assailant, than he would have been if attacked within
his dwelling-house. The accused being where he had a right
to be, on his own premises, constituting a part of his residence
and home, at the time the deceased approached him in a threatening manner, and not having by language or by conduct provoked the deceased to assault him, the question for the jury was
whether, without fleeing from his adversary, he had, at the
moment he struck the deceased, reasonable grounds to believe,
and in good faith believed, that he could not save his life or
protect himself from great bodily harm except by doing what
he did, namely, strike the deceased with his gun, and 'thus
prevent his further advance upon him. Even if the jury had
been prepared to answer this question in the affirmative- and
if it had been so answered the defendant should have been acquitted - they were instructed that the accused could not properly be acquitted on the ground of self-defence if they believed
that, by retreating from his adversary, by "getting out of the
way," he could have avoided taking life. We cannot give our
assent to this doctrine.
The application of the doctrine of "retreating to the wall"
was carefully examined by the Supreme Court of Ohio in
Erwin v. State, 29 Ohio St. 186, 193, 199. That was an indictment for murder, the defendant being found guilty. The trial
court charged the jury that if the defendant was in the lawful pursuit of his business at the time the fatal shot was fired,
and was attacked by the deceased under circumstances denoting an intention to take life or to do great bodily harm, he
could lawfully kill his assailant provided he used all means 'in
is power" otherwise to save his own life or prevent the intended harm, "such as retreating as far as he can, or disabling
his adversary, without killing him, if it be in his power; " that
if the attack was so sudden, fierce, and violent that a retreat
would not diminish but increase the .defendant's danger, be
might kill his adversary without retreating; and further, that
if from the character of the attack there was reasonable ground
for defendant to believe, and he did honestly believe, that his,
life was about to be taken, or he was to suffer great bodily harm,
and that he believed honestly that he would be in equal danger

BEARD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

by retreating, then, if he took the life of the assailant, he was
excused. Of this charge the accused complained.
Upon a full review of the authorities and looking to the
principles of the common law, as expounded by writers and
courts of high authority, the Supreme Court of Ohio held
that the charge was erroneous, saying: "It is true that all
authorities agree that the taking of life in defence of one's
person cannot be either justified or excused, except on the
ground of necessity; and that such necessity must be imminent
at the time; and they also agree that no man can avail himself
of such necessity if he brings it upon himself. The question
then is simply this: Does the law hold a man who is violently
and feloniously assaulted responsiblo for having brought such
necessity upon himself on the sole ground that he failed to
fly from his assailant when he might safely have done so?
The law, out of tenderness for human life and the frailties of
human nature, will not permit the taking of it to repel a
mere trespass, or even to save life where the assault is provoked; but a true man who is without fault is not obliged
to fly from an assailant, who by violence or surprise maliciously seeks to take his life or do him enormous bodily harm.
Now, under the charge below, notwithstanding the defendant
may have been without fault, and so assaulted, with the necessity of taking life to save his own upon him; still the jury
could not have acquitted if they found he had failed to do
all in his power otherwise to save his own life, or prevent
the intended harm, as retreating as far as he could, etc. In
this case we think the law was not correctly stated."
In Runyan v. State, 57 Indiana, 80, 84, which was an indictment for murder, and where the instructions of the trial court
involved the present question, the court said: "A very brief
examination of the American authorities makes it evident
that the ancient doctrine, as to the duty of a person assailed
to retreat as far as he can, before h is justified in repelling
force by force, has been greatly modified in this country, and
has with us a much narrower application than formerly.
Indeed, the tendency of the American mind seems to be
very strongly against the enforcement of any rule which
voL. cLvM-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

requires a person to flee when assailed, to avoid chastisement
or even to save human life, and that tendency is well illustrated by the recent decisions of our courts, bearing on the
general subject of the right of self-defence. The weight of
modern authority, in our judgment, establishes the doctrine
that, when a person, being without fault and in a place where
he has a right to be, is violently assaulted, he may, without
retreating, repel force by force, and if, in the reasonable
exercise of his right of self-defence, his assailant is killed,
he is justifiable. . . . It seems to us that the real question in the case, when it was given to the jury, was, was the
defendant, under all the circumstances, justified in the use
of a deadly weapon in r~pelling the assault of the deceased?
We mean by this, did the defendant have reason to believe,
and did be in fact believe, that what he did was necessary
for the safety of his own life or to protect him from great
bodily harm? On that question the law is simple and easy
of solution, as has been already seen from the authorities
cited above."
In East's Pleas of the Crown, the author, considering what
sort of an attack it was lawful and justifiable to resist, even
by the death of the assailant, says: "A man may repel force
by force, in defence of his person, habitation or property,
against one who manifestly intends or endeavors, by violence
or surprise, to commit a known felony, such as murder, rape,
robbery, arson, burglary, and the like, upon either. In these
cases he is not obliged to retreat, but may pursue his adversary
until he has secured himself from all danger; and if he kill
him in so doing it is called justifiable self-defence; as, on the
other hand, the killing by such felon of any person so lawfully.
defending himself will be murder. But a bare fear of any of
these offences, however well grounded, as that another lies in
wait to take away the party's life, unaccompanied with any
overt act indicative of guch an intention, will not warrant in
killing that other by way of prevention. There must be an
actual danger at the time." p. 271. So in Foster's Crown
Cases: "In the case of justifiable self-defence, the injured
party may repel force with force in defence of his person,

BEARD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

habitation, or property, against one who manifestly intendeth
and endeavoreth, with violence or surprise, to commit a known
felony upon either. In these cases he is not obliged to retreat,
but may pursue his adversary till he findeth himself out of
danger, and if, in a conflict between them, he happeneth to
kill, such killing is justifiable." c. 3, p. 273.
In Bishop's New Criminal Law, the author, after observing
that cases of mere assault, and of mutual quarrel, where the
attacking party has not the purpose of murder in his heart,
are those to which is applied the doctrine of the books, that
one cannot justify the killing of another, though apparently
in self-ddfence, unless he retreat to the wall or other interposing obstacle before resorting to this extreme right, says that
" where an attack is made with murderous intent, the person
attacked is under no duty to fly; he may stand his ground,
and if need be, kill his adversary. And it is the same where
the attack is with a deadly weapon, for in this case the person attacked may well assume that the other intends murder,
whether he does in fact or not." Vol. 1, ยง 850. The rule is
thus expressed by Wharton: "A man may repel force by
force in the defence of his person, habitation, or property,
against any one or many who manifestly intend and endeavor
by violence or surprise to commit a known felony on either.
In such case he is not compelled to retreat, but may pursue
his adversary until he finds himself out of danger, and if in
the conflict between them he happen to kill him, such killing
is justifiable." 2 Wharton on Crim. Law, ยง 1019, 7th rev. ed.
Phila. 1874. See also Gallag/eir v. State, 3 Minnesota, 270,
273; Pond v. People, 8 Michigan, 150, 177; State v. Dixon,
75 N. C. 275, 295; State v. Sherman, 16 R. I. 631; Fields v.
State, 32 N. E. Rep. 780; Eversole v. Commonwealth, 26 S. W.
Rep. 816 ; Haynes v. State, 17 Georgia, 465, 483 ; 1ong v. State,
52 Mississippi, 23, 35 ; Tweedy v. State, 5 Iowa, 433; Baker
v. Commonwealth, 19 S. W, Rep. 975; ingle v. Commonwealth,
11 S. W. 812; 3 Rice's Ev. ยง 360.
In our opinion, the court below erred in holding that the
accused, while on his premises, outside of his dwelling-house,
was under a legal duty to get out of the way, if he could, of

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

his assailant, who, according to one view of the evidence, had
threatened to kill the defendant, in execution of that purpose
had armed himself with a deadly weapon, with that weapon
concealed upon his person went to the defendant's premises,
despite the warning of the latter to keep away, and by word
and act indicated his purpose to attack the accused. The
defendant was where he had the right to be, when the
deceased advanced upon him in a threatening manner, and
with a deadly weapon; and if the accused did not provoke the
assault and had at the time reasonable grounds to believe and
in good faith believed, that the deceased intended to take his
life or do him great bodily harm, he was not obliged to retreat,
nor to consider whether he could safely retreat, but was
entitled to stand his ground and meet any attack made upon
him with a deadly weapon, in such way and with such force
as, under all the circumstances, he, at the moment, honestly
believed, and had reasonable grounds to believe, was necessary
to save his own life or to protect himself from great bodily
injury.
As the proceedings below were not conducted in accordance
with these principles, the judgment must be reversed and the
cause remanded with directions to grant a new trial.
Other objections to the charge of the court are raised by
the assignments of error, but as the questions which they
present may not arise upon another trial, they will not be
now examined.
Judgment 'eversed.
nowexamined.
IN RE DEBS, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 11.

Original.

Argued March 25, 26, 1895. -Decided

May 27, 1895.

The order of the Circuit Court finding the petitioners guilty of contempt,
and sentencing them to imprisonment, was not a final judgment or decree.
The government of the United States has jurisdiction over every foot of
soil within its territory, and acts directly upon each citizen.

While it is a government of enumerated powers, it has full attributes of
sovereignty within the limits of those powers, among which are the

