OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

STONEROAD v. STONEROAD.
ERROR

TO

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF

THE

TERRITORY

No. 11. Submitted November 9, 1893. -Decided

May 20, 1S95.

OF

NEW

MEXICO.

The act of Congress of June 21, 1860, c. 167, confirming the claim of Preston Beck, Jr., to a grant of land from Mexico made before the Treaty of
Guadalupe Hidalgo, by necessary implication contemplated that the grant
should be thereafter surveyed, and that such survey was essential for the
purpose of definitely segregating the land confirmed from the public
domain.
Such survey could only be made by the proper officer of the political depart.
ment of the government; but notice thei'eof was not necessary.
Such survey having been made by such officer, and on the trial of this
case evidence having been introduced tending to show that land of the
defendant in controversy lay outside of the lines of that survey, but
within the limits of the designated boundaries of the grant under which
the plaintiff claimed, the defendant was entitled to have the jury instructed
that if they found from the evidence that the grant had been properly
surveyed by the United States, and that that survey had been approved,
as the correct location of the grant, and that the land in dispute in the defendant's occupation and possession was outside the limits of the survey,
they must find for the defendant, althougl they might believe that the land
so in dispute was within the boundaries of the grant, as set forth in the
original title papers thereof.
The right of the defendant in error to avail himself of the legal privilege of
appeal from the survey to the Secretary of the Interior is not concluded
by any expression of opinion by the court in this case.

IN 1854 Congress passed "An act to establish the offices
of Surveyor General of New Mexico, Kansas, and Nebraska,
to grant donations to actual settlers therein, and for other
purposes." Act of July 22, 1854, c. 103, 10 Stat. 308. Sections
8 and 9 of this law read as follows:
"SEC. 8. And be it further enacted, That it shall be the
duty of the Surveyor General, under such instructions as
may be given by the Secretary of the Interior, to ascertain
the origin, nature, character, and extent of all claims to lands
under the laws, usages, and customs of Spain and Mexico;

STONEROAD v. STONEROAD.
Statement of the Case.

and, for this purpose, may issue notices, summon witnesses,
administer oaths, and do and perform all other necessary
acts in the premises. He shall make a full report on all
such claims as originated before the cession of the territory
to the United States by the treaty of Gaudalupe Hidalgo,
of eighteen hundred and forty-eight, denoting the various
grades of title, with his decision as to the validity or invaliditv of each of the same under the laws, usages, and customs
of the country before its cession to the United States; and
shall also make a report in regard to all pueblos existing
in the territory, showing the extent and locality of each,
stating the number of inhabitants in the said pueblos, respectively, and the nature of their titles to the land. Such report
to be made according to the form which may be prescribed
by the Secretary of the Interior; which report shall be laid
before Congress for such action thereon as may be deemed
just and proper, with a view to confirm bona fide grants,
and give full effect to the treaty of eighteen hundred and
forty-eight between the United States and Mexico; and,
until the final action of Congress on such claims, all lands
covered thereby shall be reserved from sale or other disposal by
the government, and shall not be subject to the donations
granted by the previous provisions of this act.
" Sxc. 9. And be it fterther enacted, That full power and
authority are hereby. given the Secretary of the Interior to
issue all needful rules and regulations for fully carrying into
effect the several provisions of this act."
Under these provisions Preston Beck, Jr., a citizen of the
United States and a resident of the territory of New Mexico,
presented his petition to the Surveyor General, on May 10,
1855, to be recognized as the legal owner, in fee, of a certain
tract of land lying in the county of San Miguel, in that territory "known as the Hacienda do San Juan Bautista del Ojito
del Rio do las Gallinas," and bounded "on the north by
the landmarks of the sitio of Don Antonio Oritz and the
mesa of the aguage de ]a Yegua, on the south by the river
Pecos, on the east by the mesa of Pajarito, on the west
by the point of the mesa of the Chupaines. . .
And the
VOL. CLVII-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

said Preston Beck, the 'present claimant,' claims a perfect
title to said land by virtue of a grant made on the twentythird day of December, in the year one thousand eight
hundred and twenty-three, by Bartolm6 Baca, governor and
superior political chief of the province of New Mexico, by
and with the advice and approbation of the provincial deputation of the said province of New Mexico, to Juan Estevan
Pifio, a citizen of New Mexico, which said grant was made
as aforesaid by authority of the laws, usages, and customs of
the republic of Mexico in force at the time, and of the laws
and regulations of Spain which were declared and recognized
to be in force and effect at that time in the republic of
Mexico.
"The said Preston Beck claims and further states that he
cannot show the quantity of land claimed by him except as
set forth in said grant, as within the above-described wellknown metes and boundaries nor can he furnish a plat of
survey, as no survey has ever been executed.
" Claimant further states that one Alexander Hatch and
about one hundred other persons have settled upon said
grant without a title from any person or from any government and with a full knowledge of the existence of the
claim now presented.
"Claimant further states that by virtue of said grant Juan
Estevan Pifio was lawfully put in possession of said tract of
land by the competent authorities, and settled upon said claim
with a large amount of property, and there held possession of
the same for the space of twenty-one years and until expelled
by the hostilities of the savage Indian tribes; that upon the
death of Juan Estevan Pifio the said tract of land was inherited by his two sons, Justo Piflo and Manuel D. Pifio, who
were his only heirs, and the present claimant claims his title
by virtue of deeds from Justo Piio and Gertrudes Roscom,
his wife, and from Manuel D. Pifio and Josefa Oritz, his wife,
all of original grants and deeds of transfer and documentary
titles, marked A, B, C, D, E, are herewith filed and made
part of this claim.
"Claimant files this his said claim before you under the Sth

STONEROAD v. STONEROAD.
Statement of the Case.

section of the act of Congress approved 22 July, 1854, entitled
' An act to establish the offices of Surveyor General of New
Mexico, Kansas, and Nebraska, to grant donations to actual
settlers therein, and for other purposes,' and respectfully asks
confirmation by you of his said claim."
The controversy initiated before the Surveyor General by
the filing of this petition was decided by him in 1856. His
opinion recites the claim, the grant made, the fact that the
grantee was put in possession by the alcalde, the acquisition
by Preston Beck, Jr., from the grantee or heirs, of all their
rights, states that a hearing was had between Beck as owner
of the grant and a large number of settlers, and continues:
"This case was argued very elaborately by the counsel on
both sides, and many points concerning boundaries of the
grant were introduced in the testimony, and the arguments,
which this office deems unnecessary at present to notice, as
they have no direct reference to the validity of the grant.
"This case has been considered by this office with much
attention, and as it is understood that the validity of nearly
all the private land claims in this Territory depends upon the
same principles, all the authorities that could be procured
having any bearing on the case have been carefLlly examined
and maturely deliberated. The documents presented in this
case are original, and the signatures of the granting officers
and conveyors are proven by testimony to be genuine, and
the chain of title from the original grantee to the present
claimant is complete.
"The boundaries set forth in the granting decree and natural points, well known to all the community, and in the absence
of any survey, which was not required in the grant, are amply
sufficient to designate such portion of land as was intended
to be severed from the public domain. The evidence presented by the claimant shows that the grantee did have
possession of the land granted to him; that he occupied it
with his stock and cultivated certain portions of it, and he
continued to do so until he was driven off by the hostile
Indians. Not having voluntarily abandoned the land, he
did therefore voluntarily forfeit his right to the grant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

[It is evident from the context that the word " not" has been
omitted before the word

"

therefore" in the last sentence.]

"The intention of the provincial deputation and the recommendation of the governor and no conditions being attached
to it makes the grant a positive and absolute one, and vests in
the grantee a title in fee to all the land embraced within the
boundaries set forth in the granting decree.
"The objections made by counsel against the validity of
the grant are therefore overruled.
"Believing this to be one of the cases coming under the
provisions of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo of 1848, and
having strong claims to validity under the decisions of the
Supreme Court of the United States in similar cases, the grant
made to Juan Estevan Piio to a certain tract of land in the
county of San Miguel, and known as the Hacienda de San
Juan Bautista del Ojito del Rio de las Gallinas, and of which
Preston Beck, Junior, is the present claimant, is hereby approved, and the Congress of the United States is respectfully
recommended to cause a patent to be issued to the said Preston
Beck, Jr., by the proper department and cause the same to be
surveyed."
On June 21, 1860, Congress passed an act, c. 167, of which
the first section reads as follows:
"That the private land claims in the Territory of New
Mexico, as recommended for confirmation by the Surveyor
General of that Territory, and in his letter to the Commissioner
of the General Land Office of the twelfth of January, eighteen
hundred and fifty-eight, designated as numbers one, three,
four, six, eight, nine, ten, twelve, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen,
seventeen, and eighteen, and the claim of E. W. Eaton, not
entered on the corrected list of numbers, but standing on the
original docket and abstract returns of the Surveyor General
as number sixteen, be, and they are hereby, confirmed: Provided, That the claim number nine, in the name of John Scolley
and others, shall not be confirmed for more than five square
leagues; and that the claim number seventeen, in the name
of Cornelio Vigil and Ceran St. Vrain, shall not be confirmed
for more than eleven square leagues to each of said claimants."
12 Stat. 71.

STONEROAD v. STONEROAD.
Statement of the Case.

Preston Beck's claim was designated as "Number one" in
the report of the Surveyor General, and was therefore embraced in this confirmatory act. After the passage of the
above act, a survey of the grant in question was made by the
officers of the government and approved by the Secretary of
the Interior. A statement of facts signed by both parties
admits that this survey was made " without notice to the
owners of said grant, or either of them." It is also admitted
that Preston Beck, Jr., in whose name the grant was confirmed, died in 1860, a short time before the passage of the
confirmatory act, leaving his estate, in which the above grant
was included, to his brother, cousin, nephews and nieces, all
of whom were non-residents of the Territory of New Mexico.
It is conceded by the same statement that at the time of the
making and approval of the survey, three of the beneficiaries
under the will of Preston Beck, Jr., were minor children
and three others were married women; and that the plaintiff, George W. Stoneroad, was not one of the legatees under
said will, but subsequently acquired a third undivided interest in
the grant. And it is further admitted that none of the owners
of the land have acquiesced in the survey since the same was
made and approved.
In 1885, George W. Stoneroad, the person thus conceded to
be the owner of one-third of the original grant, brought an
action of ejeetment against James P. Stoneroad, alleging that
he was entitled to the possession of the Preston Beck grant,
and that the defendant had illegally possessed himself of a portion thereof. The defendant pleaded not guilty. At the
trial of the case the parties entered into the stipulation, in
which the facts, as above stated, were admitted, and one clause
of this stipulation, in addition, says, in reference to the act of
Congress, "said confirmation being absolute and without any
condition whatever, and to the extent of the boundaries given
in the original muniments of the title, as the same are correctly copied in said Exhibit A."- the "Exhibit A" referred
to being the original grant, describing the property as above
mentioned. Besides the admissions which were thus made,
oral evidence was introduced tending to show that the defend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

ant James P. Stoneroad possessed two tracts of land outside
of the lines of the survey made by the government, but, as
asserted, within the limits of the designated boundaries of the
grant. At the trial the defendant asked the court to give the
following instruction:
"The jury are instructed that if they find from the evidence
in this case that the grant, in evidence in this case, has been
surveyed by the proper authorities of the United States, and
that such survey has been approved by the proper authorities
of the United States as the correct location of said grant, and
that the land in dispute in this case and in the occupation
and possession of said defendant is outside the limits of survey, they must find for the defendant, though they may also
believe that the said land so in dispute is within the boundaries of said grant, as such boundaries are set forth in the
original title papers of said grant, and the recommendation
of the Surveyor General relative there to is evidence in this
cause."
This instruction was refused, and a verdict was rendered in
favor of the plaintiff. The defendant, after an ineffectual
attempt to obtain a new trial, took the case by writ of error
to the Supreme Court of the Territory. There the judgment
below was affirmed, and the defendant then brought the case
here by error.
M1+. Clbarles H. Gildersleeve for plaintiff in error.
Mr. John -I. Ifnaebel and MTir. T. B. Catron for defendant
in error.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The first and fundamental question is, did the act of Congress of 1860, which confirmed the claim of Preston Beck, Jr,
as recommended by the Surveyor General, provide for, or by
necessary intendment contemplate that a survey of the grant
should be made in order to separate the land embraced within
it from the public domain ? And we are not relieved from

STONEROAD v. STONEROAD
Opinion of the Court.

the consideration of this question by the admission made by
the parties to the suit, that the confirmation was "absolute
and without any condition whatever." This admission is in
no way the concession of a fact, but is a declaration by the
suitors of their opinion on a matter of law. Whether the act
of Congress was absolute or conditional, whether it required,
even though it absolutely confirmed the title, that a survey
should be made to determine the extent of the property,
depends upon the terms of the law. The report of the Surveyor General who passed upon the claim states among the
reasons for his recommendation to Congress: "The boundaries set forth in the granting decree are natural points, well
known to all the community, and in the absence of any survey,
which was not required in the grant, are amply sufficient to
designate such portions of land as were intended to be severed
from the public domain."
In his recommendation to Congress, however, which is practically the decretal part of his opinion, he says: "The Congress
of the United States is respectfully recommended to cause a
patent to be issued to the said Preston Beck, Jr., by the proper
department, and cause the same to be surveyed." It was this
recommendation which was acted upon by Congress.
We think the confirmatory act of 1860, by necessary implication, contemplated that the confirmed grant should be thereafter surveyed, and that such survey was essential for the purpose of definitely segregating the land, to which the right was
confirmed, from the public domain, and thus finally fixing the
extent of the rights of the owners of the grant. To hold
otherwise would be to conclude that Congress had confirmed
the claim and yet deprived the claimant of all definite means
of ascertaining the extent of his possessions under the confirmed title. In view of the fact that the Surveyor General's
report showed the importance of the grant, and that it had
never been surveyed, we think it must be considered that
Congress intended that it should be surveyed in order that its
boundary lines might be accurately fixed, before the issue of a
patent. The grant was an unconfirmed Mexican grant, and,
therefore, before it could take a definite and conclusive shape

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

so far as the United States was concerned, it required action
and approval on the part of this government. As said by this
court, in speaking of grants within this territory of New
Mexico, in the case of Astiazaran v. Santa Riita Mining Co.,
148 U. S. 80, 81, " Undoubtedly, private rights of property
within the ceded territory were not affected by the change of
sovereignty and jurisdiction, and were entitled to protection,
whether the party bad the full and absolute ownership of the
land, or merely an equitable interest therein, which required
some further act of the government to vest in him a perfect
title. But the duty of providing the mode of securing these
rights, and of fulfilling the obligations imposed upon the
United States, by the treaties, belonged to the political department of the government ; and Congress might either
itself discharge that duty, or delegate it to the judicial department. De la Croix v. Ch4amberlain,12 Wheat. 599, 601, 602;
COouteau v. Eckhart, 2 How. 344, 3 74; Tameling v. United
States Freehold Co., 93 U. S. 644, 661; Botiller v. Dominguez,
130 U. S. 238."
Now, at the time of the passage of this confirmatory act,
and for a long time prior thereto, the general laws of the
United States confided to certain administrative officers the
duty of surveying not only the public lands but also private
land claims. Rev. Stat. §§441-453. The practice of the
United States in dealing with the public domain and all
governmental grants of land is to survey and issue a patent.
For this purpose, in the proper administrative branch of the
government, accurate and efficient machinery, accompanied
with full remedial process for the correction of error, is provided. In speaking of the general policy of the law as to the
surveying of the public domain, including private land grants,
this court, through Mr. Justice Lamar, in Itight v. United
States Land Association, 142 U. S. 161, 177, said:
"That section provides as follows : 'The Secretary of the
Interior is charged with the supervision of public business relating to the following subjects: . . . Second. The public
lands, including mines.' Section 453 provides: 'The Commissioner of the General Land Office shall perform, under the

STONEROAD v. STONEROAD.
Opinion of the Court.

direction of the Secretary of the Jbterior,all executive duties
appertaining to the surveying and sale of the public lands of
the United States, or in anywise respecting such public lands,
and also such as relate to private claims of land, and the
issuing of patents for all agents [graqt8] of land under the
authority of the government.' Section 2478 provides : 'The
Commissioner of the General Land Office, under the direction
of thie Secretary of tMe Interior, is authorized to enforce and
carry into execution, by appropriate regulations, every part of
the provisions of this title [The Public Lands] not otherwise
specially provided for.'
"The phrase, ' under the direction of the Secretary of the
Interior,' as used in these sections of the statutes, is not meaningless, but was intended as an expression in general terms of
the power of the Secretary to supervise and control the extensive operations of the land department of which he is the head.
It means that, in the important matters relating to the sale
and disposition of the public domain, the surveying of private
land claims, and the issuing of patents thereon, and the administration of the trusts devolving upon the government, by
reason of the laws of Congress or under treaty stipulations,
respecting the public domain, the Secretary of the Interior is
the supervising agent of the government to do justice to all
claimants and preserve the rights of the people of the United
States. As was said by the Secretary of the Interior on the
application for the recall and cancellation of the patent in this
pueblo case (5 Land Dec. 494): ' The statutes in placing the
whole business of the Department under the supervision of the
Secretary, invest him with authority to review, reverse, amend,
annul, or affirm all proceedings in the Department having for
their ultimate object to secure the alienation of any portion of
the public lands, or the adjustment of private claims to lands,
with a just regard to the rights of the public and of private
parties. Such supervision may be exercised by direct orders
or by review on appeals. The mode in which the supervision
shall be exercised in the absence of statutory direction may be
prescribed by such rules and regulations as the Secretary may
adopt.'"

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

It is not to be presumed that Congress intended, by confirming a grant which bad never been surveyed, and had,
therefore, never been distinctly separated from the public
domain, to exempt it from the survey essential to its accurate
segregation and delimitation, especially when this survey was
fully provided for by the general law, in accordance with the
uniform public policy of the government in dealing with
questions of this character. The general rule being to exact
a survey, the grant here under consideration could only be
exempted from this requirement by an express statement in
the act of Congress indicating an intention to depart from the
rule in the particular instance. No such intention is anywhere
expressed in the confirmatory act. Indeed, the idea that the
act, whilst confirming the title, did not contemplate a survey,
for the purpose of marking its limits, amounts to the contention that the public domain itself should remain in part forever
unsurveyed and undetermined, since a separation of the private
claim from the public domain was essential to the ascertainment of what remained of the latter. Construing', then, the
confirmatory act, in connection with the general law of the
United States, the recommendations of the Surveyor General
upon which the confirmation was made and the essential requirements of the case as presented to Congress, we conclude
that a survey of the grant was contemplated by the confirmatory act, and we will determine the rights of the parties in
accordance with this conclusion.
It is unquestioned that shortly after the confirmation of the
grant a survey was made, and that the land in possession of
the defendant below is outside of its lines. The plaintiff's
case, therefore, necessarily rests upon a disregard of the official
survey. In order to sustain his position two legal propositions
are advanced: first, that the holders of the grant are not
bound by the survey, for the reason that it was made without
notice to them, and because at the time of the survey some of
them were minors and some were under coverture; and, second,
that the survey did not conform to the boundaries of the
grant, and, therefore, should be judicially corrected. Both
these propositions are untenable. The first attacks the survey

STONEROAD v. STONEROAD.
Opinion of the Court.

as a whole, upon the theory that notice was an essential prerequisite, and that coverture and minority were obstacles to
the right of the government to survey the claim as confirmed,
for the purpose of ascertaining the extent of the grant and in
order to separate it from the public domain. It is unnecessary
to point out the fallacy which underlies this proposition,
because, even if its correctness be conceded, the concession
would be fatal to the plaintiff's case. As we have seen, a
survey was necessary. Now, if the survey was illegal, and is
to be treated as not existing, then we are without the guidance provided by law for the purpose of ascertaining whether
the land claimed from the defendant was within or without
the area of the grant. In other words, if it be conceded that
there is no survey, the plaintiff is without right to relief, since
a survey was essential to carry out the confirmatory act. The
second proposition is equally unsound. It presupposes the
existence in the courts of the United States of a power to
survey the public domain, and thus discharge a function confided by law to an administrative branch of the government.
In West v. Cochran, 17 How. 403, 414, this court, speaking
through Mr. Justice Catron, said
"It has often been held by this court that the judicial
tribunals, in the ordinary administration of justice, had no
jurisdiction or power to deal with these incipient claims, either
as to fixing boundaries by survey, or for any other purpose;
but that claimants were compelled to rely upon Congress, on
which power was conferred by the Constitution to dispose of
and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the
territory and 'property of the United States. Among these
needful regulations was that of providing that these unlocated
claims should be surveyed by lawful authority; a consideration that has occupied a prominent place in the legislation of
Congress from an early day."
Considering the same subject in Jmzight v. U. S. Land
Association, 8upra, speaking through Mr. Justice Lamar,
the court said, p. 176:
"It is a well-settled rule of law that the power to make
and correct surveys of the public lands belongs exclusively

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

to the political department of the government, and that the
action of that department, within the scope of its authority,
is unassailable in the courts except by a direct proceeding.
Cragin v. Powell, 128 U. S. 691, 699, and cases cited. Under
this rule it must be held that the action of the Land Department in determining that the Von Leicht survey correctly
delineated the boundaries of the pueblo grant, as established
by the confirmatory decree, is binding in this court, if the
department had jurisdiction and power to order that survey."
These views are particularly applicable to the case in hand,
since the act providing for the of-ice of the Surveyor General
for New Mexico authorizes him to examine and report, under
such rules and regulations as the Secretary of the Interior
may adopt, and requires that his report shall be transmitted
to Congress for its action. Even if the general rule were
otherwise, these provisions necessarily preclude judicial cognizance of the subject-matter, and confine it to the supervision
of the political and administrative departments of the government. And the terms of the act become especially cogent
when considered in connection with antecedent legislation
under similar circumstances. They differ materially from
the language of the measures previously adopted by Congress
for confirming the outstanding titles in Louisiana, Florida,
and California. In those cases the statutes, while creating
administrative officers for the purpose of ascertaining and
passing on the grants, expressly gave a right to the parties to
invoke the aid of the courts in order that the correctness of
the actions of the officers named might be judicially determined. It was under such provisions that many of the cases
referred to and relied on by the defendant in error were
decided. The absence of a provision in the present statute
for a judicial review of the Surveyor General's action indicates
the intention of Congress to reserve to itself the right to pass
upon such claims. Astiazaran v. Santa Rita Mining Co.,
supra. Hence the many authorities cited by the defendant
in error have no application. Thus United States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet. 691; Mitc ell v. United States, 9 Pet. 711, and
Fremont v. United States, 17 How. 542, were the results of

RUSSELL v. MAXWELL LAND GRANT CO.

253

Statement of the Case.

an express provision giving parties an ultimate recourse to
the courts. _Iangdeau v.
21 Wall. 521, involved no
2lutes,
assertion of a power in the courts to destroy a survey duly
made; there the survey had been made, and was not assailed.
The finding of the court below in that case, which was here
affirmed, was as follows: "1st. That the act of confirmation
of 1807 was a present grant, becoming so far operative and
complete, to convey the legal title when the land was located
and surveyed by the United States in 1820, as that an action
of ejectment could be maintained on the same." In TVitney
v. Morrow, 112 U. S. 693, there had been an unquestioned
segregation of the property after the confirmation by the com-

missioners under a special act of Congress, by long-continued
actual possession.
Nothing in the record indicates that the defendant in error
has availed himself of the legal privilege of appeal to the Secretary of the Interior, and of course his right to so do is not
concluded by any expression of opinion which we have made.
Our conclusion is, that the instruction requested by the defendant was wrongfully refused in the lower court, and the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory of New Mexico,
which upheld the action of the court below, was erroneous.
It is, therefore, ordered that the judgment be
R~eversed.

RUSSELL v. MAXWELL LAND GRANT COMPANY.
ERROR

TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

DISTRICT
No. 321.

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

OF COLORADO.

Submitted April 29, 1895.- Decided May 20, 1895.

A survey made by the proper officers of the United States, and confirmed
by the Land Department, is not open to challenge by any collateral
attack in the courts.

ON May 19, 1888, the defendant in error, as plaintiff, commenced this action in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Colorado to recover the possession of a cer-

