VIRGINIA

v. TENNESSEE.

Statement of the Case.

We regard and adopt this comparison as correct; nor do we
find anything in the evidence or the argument of the appellant to the contrary.
Doubtless, if the Boyd patent contained an invention entirely new, and first adapted to the end sought, such differences might be regarded as formal and evasive. But, coming
as he did in the train of the numerous inventors that had preceded him, whose inventions had been patented and put into
practical use, we must conclude that Boyd, if entitled to anything, is only entitled to the precise devices described and
claimed in his patent. Of course, it follows that if the
defendants' specific devices are different from those of Boyd,
no combination of such devices could be deemed an infringement of any combination claimed by Boyd.
These views of the case bring us to the conclusion reached
by the court below, and its decree dismissing the bill is
accordingly
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY did not hear the argument and took no
part in the decision of the case.

VIRGINIA v. TENNESSEE.
ORIGINAL.

No.8. Original.

Submitted May 6,1895. -Decided

May 20,1895.

This court is without jurisdiction to enter a consent decree at this term in
a cause finally determined at October term, 1893, and improperly'retained
upon the docket at this term.

THE following papers were presented to the court in.
support of a motion for a decree in this case:
To G. W. PICKLE, Attorney General of Tennessee:
Take notice that the State of Virginia, by R. Taylor Scott,
her attorney general, on Monday, the 6th day of May, 1895,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

at Washington, D. C., will move the Chief Justice and Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States to
enter as a decree of said court in the cause aforesaid the
decree in form and substance as set out in the paper "1m ar k ed
19," attached hereto and made part and parcel of this notice,
said "paper 1" being the form and substance of a decree as
agreed by and between the counsel who represent the parties,
plaintiff and defendant, in the aforesaid cause.
THE COMMONWEALTH

By R. TAYLOR
RICHMOND, VA., April 15, 1895.

SCOTT,

OF VIRGINIA,

Attorney General.

I do hereby accept legal service of the notice hereto
attached, dated the 15th day of April, 1895, and consent that
the decree in form as thereto annexed shall be made in tis
cause; and I do further agree that this shall be done without
amendment to the original bill filed by the State of Virginia
in this case, if this can be lawfully done.
Given nder my hand this 18th day of April, 1895.
G. W. PICKLE,
Attorney Generalfor Tennessee.
"MARKED
SUPREME

COURT

OF

THE

H."

UNITED

STATES,

OCTOBER

TERM,

1894.
THE STATE OF VIRGINIA.

v.

)

No. 3, Original.

THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.

This day this cause came on to be further heard upon the
record heretofore made and motion in writing submitted to
the court by the State of Virginia, viz. : That this court, in
accordance with its opinion and the decree made in this cause
on the 13th day of April, 1893, have laid down, remarked,
and defined the boundary line by said decree established
between the States of Virginia and Tennessee according to
the compact made between them in 1803. On consideration
whereof and with the consent of the complainant, given by her

VIRGINIA v. TENNESSEE.
Statement of the Case.

attorney general, and there being no objection on the part of
the State of Tennessee, the court doth adjudge, order, and
decree that
, who are hereby appointed special coinmissioners for that purpose and authorized to do all and singular such acts as may be necessary, do lay down, distinctly
remark, and clearly define the boundary line established
between the States of Virginia and Tennessee by the compact
of 1803, as construed by the opinion and decree of this court
made on the 13th day of April, 1893. In executing this
decree the court doth direct that the said special commissioners be permitted to use the court's record of this case or
such part thereof as they shall find necessary.
The court doth direct that the boundary line aforesaid between Cumberland Gap and White Top Mountain shall be
marked at intervals of not over five (5) miles by distinct and
durable stone monuments ;
That the corner between the States of Virginia and Tennessee upon said mountain be also marked by a durable monument of stone;
That the said boundary line from White Top Mountain
through Denton's valley and the country in the record called
the " Triangle" shall be marked by stone monuments, so designed, located, and arranged as to make distinct and unmistakable this line;
That stone monuments be placed at the eastern and western limits of the cities of Bristol, in the States of Virginia
and Tennessee, and the said boundary line through said cities
be distinctly and clearly marked;
That a corner stone as a monument be placed at Cumberland Gap;
That the said boundary line from Station Creek, near Cumberland Gap, to the western corner on the top of Cumberland
Mountain, at proper intervals be marked by stone monuments;
That said special commissioners, as soon as possible after
assuming the duties imposed by this decree, do make full
report to this court of their action pursuant thereto, and with
said report do return a plat and survey of the aforesaid boundary line, monuments, etc.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

And the court doth further order and decree that the costs
of said survey,.plat, etc., when allowed by this court, shall be
paid equally by the parties to this cause - that is to say, onehalf thereof by the State of Virginia and the other half thereof
,by the State of Tennessee.
Mr. R. Taylor Scott, Attorney General of the State of Virginia, for the motion.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

,court.
This was a suit to establish the true boundary line between
the States of Virginia and Tennessee, and proceeded to a decree on April 3, 1893, at October term, 1892, "that the
boundary line established between the States of Virginia and
Tennessee by the compact of 1803, between the said States,
is the real, certain, and true boundary between the said States,
and that the prayer of the complainant to have the said compact set aside and annulled, and to have a new boundary line
run between them on the parallel of 36' 30' north latitude,
should be, and the same is hereby, denied, at the costs of the
,complainant."
In view of some observations made, on the argument of the
case, upon the propriety and necessity, if the line established
in 1803 were sustained, of having it rerun and remarked, so as
thereafter to be more readily identified and traced, it was
,stated in the opinion "that on a proper application, based
upon a showing that any marks for the identification of that
line have been obliterated or have become indistinct, an order
may be made, at any time during the present term, for the
restoration of such marks without any change of the line."
Virginia v. Tennessee, 148 IT. S. 503, 528. Subsequently, on
May 15, 1893, a motion was made on behalf of the State of
Virginia to restore the boundary marks between the two
States alleged to be indistinct and obliterated, and to allow
complainant to take additional testimony, the consideration
of which was postponed to October-term, 1893, when and on

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. URLIN.

271

Syllabus.

,October 16, 1893, the motion was denied. Application is
now made on behalf of the State of Virginia to. this court to
enter a decree in this cause for the remarking of the boundary
line as set forth therein, to the granting of which the State
of Tennessee consents. But we find ourselves unable to enter
the order desired, as our power over the cause ceased with the
expiration of October term, 1893, and it should not have been
retained on the docket. The application must therefore be
denied, but without prejudice to the filing of a new bill or
petition, upon which, the parties being properly before the
court and agreeing thereto, such a decree may be entered.
Application denied and case stricenfrom the docket.

NORTHERN

ERROR TO THE

PACIFIC RAILROAD
URLIN.
CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

DISTRICT OF
No. 272.

UNITED

COMPANY

v.

STATES FOR THE

MONTANA.

Submitted April 5, 1895.-

Decided May 20, 1895.

While it cannot be safely said that, in no case can a court of errors take
notice of an exception to the conduct of the trial court in permitting
leading questions, such conduct must appear to be a plain case of the
abuse of discretion.
'There was no error in permitting medical witnesses testifying in behalf of
the plaintiff to be asked whether the examinations made by them were
made in a superficial or in a careful and thorough manner.
It is competent for a medical man called as an expert to characterize the
manner of the physical examinations made by him.
When a party is represented by counsel at the taking of a deposition, and
takes part in the examination, that must be regarded as a waiver of
irregularities in taking it.
When a deposition is received without objection or exception, objections
to it are waived.
In an action against a railroad company to recover for personal injuries, the
declarations of the party are competent evidence when confined to such
complaints, expressions, and exclamations as furnish evidence of a
present existing pain or malady, to prove his condition, ills, pains, and

