RICHARDS v. CHASE ELEVATOR CO.
Statement of the Case.

RICHARDS v. CHASE ELEVATOR COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT
No. 310.

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

OF ILLINOIS.

Argued April 25, 1895.-Decided

May 20, 1895.

If letters patent be manifestly invalid upon their face, the question of their
validity may be raised on demurrer, and the case may be determined on
the issue so formed.
Letters patent No. 308,095, issued November 18, 1884, to Edward S. Richards for a grain transferring apparatus, are wholly void upon their face
for want of patentable novelty and invention.
THIS was a bill in equity for the infringement of letterspatent No. 308,095, issued November 18, 1884, to the plaintiff
Richards, for a grain transferring apparatus.
The purpose of the invention, as stated by the patentee,
was "to provide improved means for transferring and weighing grain without mixing different lots or loads with each
other, thus preserving the identity of each lot while it is being
transferred from one car to another."
The device in question was substantially one for shifting
grain from one car to another through an elevator, by means
of which the grain is raised from one car to a hopper in the
elevator, where it is weighed and discharged into another car.
The device is illustrated by the drawings on page 300:
The patentee thus explained the operation of his device:
"The car to be unloaded - for example, the car B - is drawn
upon the track F and allowed to stand in such a position that
the door will be directly opposite the chute J. If the grain
is to be transferred to a car opposite, or about opposite, the
car B - for example, to the car D - I close the door or valve L
and open the valve K. The grain is then shovelled from the
car by means of a steam shovel, or otherwise, into the chute J,
from which it passes into the elevator leg, through which the
buckets move upwards. The grain is thus elevated and discharged into the hopper of the hopper scales, located for discharging its contents into the car D. That hopper has its

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

valve closed while being filled, but when filled the grain therein
is weighed and discharged into the car intended to receive it."
The patentee further explained that if the cars are not opposite to each other, he closes the valve K and opens the valve
L, through which, by a similar method, the grain is carried,
lifted, and discharged into the other car.
The claims of the patent were as follows:
"1. The combination of a fixed or stationary building, the
tracks F and G, an elevator apparatus, an elevator hopper
scales having a fixed or stationary hopper provided with a
valve or slide in its bottom, and a discharge spout, P, adapted
and arranged for discharging the grain directly from the said
hopper into a car, substantially as specified and for the purposes set forth.
"2. The combination of a fixed or stationary building, the
tracks F and G, two or more elevating apparatus, a series of
two or more elevator hopper scales having fixed or stationary
hoppers, each having a valve or slide in its bottom, the discharge spouts PP, adapted and arranged for discharging the
grain directly from said hoppers, respectively, into a correspondingly arranged car, a horizontal conveyor, the chutes

RICHARDS v. CHASE ELEVATOR CO.
Opinion of the Court.

JJ, having therein the doors or valves K and L, and the slides
or doors 00, all arranged substantially as shown and described,
with relation to each other and for the purposes set forth."
A demurrer was interposed to the bill to the effect that the
patent and both claims thereof were wholly void upon their
face, for the want of patentable novelty and invention. This
demurrer was sustained, and the bill dismissed. 40 Fed. Rep.
165. Thereupon plaintiff appealed to this court.
The case was argued with No. 311, Richards v. Michigan
Central Railroad Company, and No. 312, Richards v. Cicago
& Grand Trunk Railroad Conpany.
-Mr. Charles IC. Offleld for appellant in all the cases.
Mr. John W. Munday for the Chase Elevator Company.
Mr. Edmund Adcock was on his brief.
Mr. George S. Payson for the Railroad Companies.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
While patent cases are usually disposed of upon bill, answer,
and proof, there is no objection, if the patent be manifestly
invalid upon its face, to the point being raised on demurrer,
and the case being determined upon the issue so formed. We
have repeatedly held that a patent may be declared invalid for
want of novelty, though no such defence be set up in the answer. Dunbarv. ffyers, 94 U. S. 187 ; Slawson v. GrandStreet
Railroad,107 U. S.649 ; Brown v. Piper, 91 U. S.37.
The patent in question is for the combination of, (1) a fixed
or stationary building; (2) two railway tracks; (3) an elevating
apparatus; (4)elevator hopper scales, having a fixed or stationary hopper, provided with a valve or slide in its bottom;
(5) a discharge spout, arranged for discharging the grain
directly from the hopper into a car.
The second claim has the same combination duplicated, with
the addition of a horizontal conveyor; the chutes JJ having
therein doors or valves, and the slides or doors 00.

OCTOBER TERI,

1894.

Opinion of the Court.

It is not claimed that there is any novelty in any one of the
elements of the above combination. They are all perfectly
well known, and if not known in the combination described,
they are known in combinations so analogous that the court
is at liberty to judge for itself whether there be any invention
in using them in the exact combination claimed. We do not
feel compelled to shut our eyes to a fact so well known as
that elevators have, for many years, been used for transferring
grain from railway cars to vessels lying alongside, and that
this method involves the use of a railway track, entering a
fixed or stationary building; an elevator apparatus; elevator
hopper scales for weighing the grain ; and a discharge spout
for discharging the grain into the vessel. There is certainly
no novelty in using two railway tracks instead of one, or in
discharging the grain into a second car, instead of a storage
bin or a vessel. Unless the combination accomplishes some
new result, the mere multiplicity of elements does not make
it patentable. So long as each element performs some old and
well-known function, the result is not a patentable combination, but an aggregation of elements. Indeed, the multiplicity
of elements may go on indefinitely without creating a patentable combination, unless by their collocation a new result be
produced. Thus, nothing would have been added to the legal
aspect of the combination in question by introducing as new
elements the car from which the transfer was made; the
engine that drew such car; the steam shovel; the engine
that operated the shovel and the elevator; as well as the
locomotive which drew the loaded car from the building,
though these are all indispensable features, since each of them
is an old and well-known device, and performs a well-understood duty.
Suppose, for instance, it were .old to run a railroad track
into a station or depot for the reception and discharge of passengers, it certainly would not be patentable to locate such
station between two railroad tracks for the reception of passengers on both sides, and to add to the accommodations a
ticket office, a newspaper stand, a restaurant, and cigar stand,
or the thousand and one things that are found in buildings of

THE BEACONSFIELD.
Syllabus.

that character. It might as well be claimed that the man who
first introduced an elevator into a private house, it having been
previously used in public buildings, was entitled to a patent
for a new combination.
Not a new function or result is suggested by the combination in question. The cars run into the building on railway
tracks, as they have done ever since railways were invented.
The building is fixed and stationary, as buildings usually are.
It is no novelty that it should contain an elevating device,
and that the latter should raise the grain to the hopper scale,
and should discharge it either into a bin or a vessel, or into
another car. In principle it makes no difference which.
In fact, the combination claimed is a pure aggregation, and
the decree of the court dismissing the bill is, therefore,
Atdfrmed.

THE BEACONSFIELD. 1
CERTIFICATE

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF

APPEALS

FOR

THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
1o 948.

Submitted April 22, 1895. -Decided

May 20, 1896.

The carrier is so far the representative of the owner, that he may sue in his
own name, either at common law or in admiralty, for a trespass upon or
injury to the property carried.
If a cargo be damaged by collision between two vessels, the owner may
pursue both vessels, or either, or the owners of both, or either; and in
case he proceeds against one only, and both are held in fault, he may
recover his entire damages of the one sued.
A person who has suffered injury by the joint action of two or more wrongdoers, may have his remedy against all or either, subject to the condition
that satisfaction once obtained is a bar to further proceedings.
If the owner of a vessel, libellant on his own behalf and on behalf of the
owner of the cargo, takes no appeal from a decree dismissing the libel as
to his own vessel, the owner of the cargo may be substituted as libellant
in his place, and the failure of the owner of the vessel to appeal is a
technical defence which ought not to prejudice the owner of the cargo.
'The docket title of this case is Elizabeth Cleugh, Claimant of the Steamship Beaconsfied, and William Libbey, Surety, v. Albert W. Sanbern.

