OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

offering and sale all of said section 33, as appears by their
report dated March 18, 1859. After stating' all the offerings
and sales made in said township and range, the report concludes: 'All the balance of the township reserved, mineral
lands.' All of section 33 was so reserved.
"It thus appears that the tract in question remained in the
category of unoffered lands, and was not proclaimed for sale.
The pre~inption act of March 3, 1843, (5 Stat. 620,) provided
that the settler on unoffered land might make proof and payment at any time before the commencement of the public sale,
which should embrace his land. Until such time arrived the
filing protected the claim of the settler. This was the status
of the law at the time said company's rights attached, and it
so continued until modified by the act of July 14, 1870. 16
Stat. 279."
We see no sufficient reasons for doubting the conclusions
thus reached by the Secretary.
These are all the questions presented by counsel. There
was no error in the ruling of the Circuit Court, and its judgment is, therefore,
______________A/finned.

GULF,

COLORADO AND SANTA FE
COMPANY v. HEFLEY.

ERROR TO THE COUNTY couR

RAILWAY

OF MILAM COUNTY, STATE OF TEXAS.

No. 255. Submitted April 4, 1895. -Decided

April 29, 1595.

The Texas statute of May 6, 1882, making it unlawful for a railroad company in that State to charge and collect a greater sum for transporting
freight than is specified in the bill of lading, is, when applied to freight
transported into the State from a place without it, in conflict with the
provision in section 6 of the Interstate Commerce Act of February 4,
1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, as amended by the act of March 2, 1889, c.
382, 25 Stat. 855, that it shall be unlawful for such carrier to charge and
collect a grcater or less compensation for the transportation of the property than is specified in the published schedule of rates provided for by
the act, and in force at the time ; and, being thus in conflict, it is not

applicable to interstate shipments.

GULF, COLORADO &c. RAILWAY v. HEFLEY.

99

Statement of the Case.
When a state statute and a Federal statute operate upon the same subject
matter, and prescribe different rules concerning it, and the Federal statute
is one within the competency of Congress to enact, the state statute must
give way.

ON May 6, 1882, the legislature of the State of Texas passed
the following act:
"SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the legislature of the State qf
Texas, That it shall be unlawful for any railroad company in
this State, its officers, agents or employ~s, to charge and co]lect, or to endeavor to charge and collect, from the owner,
agent or consignee of any freight, goods, wares and merchandise, of any kind or character whatever, a greater sum for
transporting said freioht, goods, wares and merchandise than
is specified in the bill of lading.
"SEc. 2. That any railroad company, its officers, agents or
employ~s, having possession of any goods, wares and merchandise of any kind or character whatever, shall deliver the same
to the owner, his agent or consignee, upon payment of the
freight charges, as shown by the bill of lading.
"SEC. 3. That any railroad company, its officers, agents or
employvs, that shall refuse to deliver to the owner, agent or
consignee any freight, goods, wares and merchandise of any
kind or character whatever, upon the payment, or tender of
payment, of the freight charges due, as shown by the bill of
lading, the said railroad company shall be liable in damages
to the owner of said freight, goods, wares or merchandise to
an amount equal to the amount of the freight charges for
every day said freight, goods, wares and merchandise is held
after payment, or tender of payment, of the charges due, as
shown by the bill of lading, to be recovered in any court of
competent jurisdiction." Laws of Texas, extra session, 1882,
c. 26, p. 35.

Under that act the defendants in error commenced an action
before a justice of the peace in the county of Milam, to recover
$82.80. After judgment the ease was appealed to the county
court of the county. In that court a trial was had, a jury
being waived, which resulted in a judgment in favor of the
plaintiffs and against the railway company for the full amount,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

claimed. That was the highest court in the State to which
the case could be taken, and thereupon the defendant sued out
this writ of error.
The facts appear in the findings made by the trial court,
and are as follows: On August 4, 1890, Wolf & Kramer, a
firm doing business in St. Louis, Missouri, shipped from that
city a carload of furniture to the plaintiffs at Cameron, Texas.
The shipment was by the St. Louis and San Francisco Railway Company, and the bill of lading issued by that company
named 69 cents per 100 pounds as the rate. At this rate the
freight charges amounted to $82.80. On the arrival of the
car at Cameron the plaintiffs presented this bill of lading to
the agent of the defendant company, together with $82.80,
and demanded the furniture. The agent refused to deliver
without payment of $100.80, that being the amount of charges
due at the rate of 84 cents per 100 pounds. This was the rate
named in the printed tariff sheet posted in the railroad office
at Cameron. As a matter of fact, before the shipment at St.
Louis, the rate had by the companies been reduced to 69 cents,
but the new tariff sheet had not reached Cameron, and the
agent was ignorant of the reduction. While declining to
deliver the goods except upon payment at the rate named in
his tariff sheet, he told the plaintiffs that he would telegraph
for instructions. He did so, and was advised that the rate had
been reduced, and to accept 69 cents, but the telegram was
not received at once, and so the furniture was detained one
full day. So far as appears, the St. Louis and San Francisco
Railway Company was not only a different corporation from
the defendant, but under separate management and control,
though, as respects through shipments, acting under a joint
tariff.
Mr. A. T. Britton., -Hr.A. B. Browne, Mr. J. T. Terry, and
MIr. George R. Peck for plaintiff in error.
No brief filed for defendants in error.
M .. JUSTIcE BRLWER, after stating the

opinion of the court.

case, delivered the

GULF, COLORADO &c. RAILWAY v. HEFLEY.

101

Opinion of the Court.

The question presented by this record is this: Is the statute
of Texas imposing a penalty for a failure to deliver goods
on tender of the rate named in a bill of lading applicable
to interstate shipments? While the amount in controversy is
small, so small, indeed, that the case could not be taken from
a lower to the Supreme Court of the State, the question is of
no little importance.
At the time of this transaction the act of Congress, known
as the Interstate Commerce Act, of February 4, 1887, c. 104,
24 Stat. 379, as amended by the act of March 2, 1889, c. 382,
25 Stat. 855, was in force. By section 6 every common carrier,
subject to the provisions of the act, (and all railroads carrying
interstate freight are subject to such provisions,) is, for the
inspection and information of the public, required to print
and publicly post at each station upon its routes the schedules
of fares and rates for carriage of passengers and property
thereon. No advance in such fares and rates shall be made
except after ten days' public notice, such advance to be shown
by printing and posting new schedules, or plainly indicated
upon the schedules then in force, and duly posted, nor shall
any reduction in such fares and rates be made except after
three days' previous public notice given in like manner. The
section then reads:
"And when any such common carrier shall have established
and published its rates, fares, and charges in compliance with
the provisions of this section, it shall be unlawful for such
common carrier to charge, demand, collect or receive from
any person or persons a greater or less compensation for the
transportation of passengers or property, or for any services
in connection therewith, than is specified in such published
schedule of rates, fares, and charges as may at the time be in
force."
After this is a provision in respect to joint rates between
connecting carriers. Such carriers are required to file with
the Interstate Commerce Commission copies of their joint
tariffs, which shall be made public by the carriers when
directed by the commission, in so far as in the judgment of
the commission it is deemed practicable, the commission being

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

given power to prescribe the measure of publicity to be given
and the places in which the joint tariffs shall be published.
There is also a prohibition like to that quoted of any advance
of such joint rates except after ten days' notice, or any reduction except after three days' notice, and a like declaration
that it shall be unlawful for any common carrier, party to
any such joint tariff, to charge, demand, collect, or receive
from any person or persons a greater or less compensation
than is specified in such schedules. Section 10 makes a violation of these provisibns by any carrier, or any agent or person
acting for the carrier, a penal offence, subject to fine not
exceeding $5000, and, in case the offence amounts to an
unlawful discrimination in rates, to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding two years, or both such fine and imprisonment.
Clearly the state and the national acts relate to the same
subject-matter and prescribe different rules. By the state act
the bill of lading is made controlling as to the rate collectible,
and a failure to comply with that requirement exposes the
delinquent carrier to its -penalties, while the national statute
ignores the bill of lading and makes the published tariff rate
binding, and subjects the offender, both carrier and agent, to
severe penalties. The carrier cannot obey one statute without
sometimes exposing itself to the penalties prescribed by the
other. Take the case before us: If, in disregard of the joint
tariff established by the defendant and the St. Louis and San
Francisco Railway Company and filed with the Interstate
Commerce Commission, the latter company, as a matter of
favoritism, had issued this bill of lading at a rate less than the
tariff rate, both the defendant company and its agent would,
by delivering the goods upon the receipt of only such reduced
rate, subject themselves to the penalties of the national law,
while, on the other hand, if the tariff rate was insisted upon,
then the corporation would become liable for the damages
named in the state act. In case of such a conflict the state
law must yield. "This Constitution, and the laws of the
United States which shall be made in pursuance thereof
.
.
. shall be the supreme law of the land."
Constitution, Art. VI, clause 2. It is no answer to say that in this

GULF, COLORADO &c. RAILWAY v. IIEFLEY.

103

Opinion of the Court.

case the defendant might have complied with both the state
and the national statute; that it was a party to the reduction
of the joint rate; that, therefore, the bill of lading was properly issued at 69 cents per 100 pounds; that it should have
promptly notified its agents at every station of such reduction;
that if it had done so the agent at Cameron could have complied with the state as well as the national law, and that its
negligence in this respect is sufficient ground for holding it
amenable to the state law. The question is not whether, in
any particular case, operation may be given to both statutes,
but whether their enforcement may expose a party to a conflict of duties. It is enough that the two statutes operating
upon the same subject-matter prescribe different rules. In
such case one must yield, and that one is the state law.
It may be conceded that were there no congressional legislation in respect to the matter, the state act could be held
applicable to interstate shipments as a police regulation. Railroad Company v. Faller, 17 Wall. 560. In that case a statute
of Iowa, requiring each railroad company annually in the month
of September to establish passenger and freight rates, and on
the first day of October following put up at all the stations on
its route a printed copy of such rates and cause it to remain
posted during the year, and, providing that, for charging and
receiving higher rates than thus posted it should forfeit not
less than $100 nor more than $200 to any person injured
thereby, was upheld, notwithstanding Congress had passed
the act of June 15, 1866, c. 124, 14 Stat. 66, providing "that
every railroad company in the United States . . . be and
is hereby authorized to carry upon and over its road
all passengers . .
freight and property on their way
from any State to another State, and to receive compensation
therefor;" and a recovery in favor of a party having shipped
freight from Illinois into Iowa and charged higher rates of
freight than thus posted was sustained. It will be perceived
that the two statutes do not conflict, do not prescribe different
rules, and only in a very general sense can be said to be in
relation to the same subject-matter. It was held that the
state statute was simply a police regulation. While so holding,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

it was also said that even if it did affect commerce the question would arise whether it did not fall within that class of
cases of which several were noticed in the opinion, where
an act conceded to be a regulation of interstate commerce,
yet local in its character, had been sustained by reason of the
absence of congressional legislation in respect thereto. Among
the cases named are Villson v. Blackbird Creek larsh Co.,
2 Pet. 245; Cooley v. Philadelphia Port Wardens, 12 How.
299; Pennsylvania v. Vhieeling &c. Bridge, 18 How. 421;
Briy James Gray v. Ship John -Fraser,21 How. 184; Gilman
v. Philadelph4ia,3 Wall. 713 ; Exparte McNiel, 13 Wall. 236.
Of the same character are the following cases, since decided:
Pound v. Turk, 95 U. S. 459, 462; flall v. DeCuir,95 U. S.
485, 488 ; County of Mobile v. Aimball, 102 U. S. 691; Packet
Co. v. Catlettsburg, 105 U. S. 559, 562; Transportation Co. v.
]Parkersburg,107 U. S.691, 702; Escanaba Co. v. 0/iicago, 107
U. S. 678; and Morgan v. Louisiana, 118 U. S. 455. In this
latter case certain quarantine laws of the State of Louisiana
were upheld, although to a certain extent they affected commerce with foreign nations, the court saying: "It may be
conceded that whenever Congress shall undertake to provide
for the commercial cities of the United States a general
system of quarantine, or shall confide the execution of the
details of such a system to a National Board of Health, or to
local boards, as may be found expedient, all state laws on the
subject will be abrogated, at least so far as the two are inconsistent."
Generally it may be said in respect to laws of this character
that, though resting upon the police power of the State, they
must yield whenever Congress, in the exercise of the powers
granted to it, legislates upon the precise subject-matter, for
that power, like all other reserved powers of the States, is subordinate to those in terms conferred by the Constitution upon
the nation. "No urgency for its use can authorize a State to
exercise it in regard to a subject-matter which has been confided exclusively to the discretion of Congress by the Constitution." 11enderson v. New York, 92 U. S.259, 271. " Definitions of the police power must, however, be taken, subject

ELLENWOOD v.

IARIETTA CHAIR CO.
Syllabus.

to the condition that the State cannot, in its exercise, for any
purpose whatever, encroach upon the powers of the general
government, or rights granted or secured by the supreme law
of the land." New Orleans Gas Co. v. _Louisiana Light Co.,
115 U. S. 650, 661. " While it may be a police power in the
sense that all provisions for the health, comfort, and security
of the citizens are police regulations, and an exercise of the
police power, it has been said more than once in this court
that, where such powers are so exercised as to come within
the domain of Federal authority as defined by the Constitution, the latter must prevail." Morgan v. louisiana, 118
U. S.455, 464.
It is unnecessary to pursue this discussion further. The
State statute and the national law operate upon the same
subject-matter, and prescribe different rules concerning it.
The national law is unquestionably one within the competency
of Congress to enact under the power given to regulate commerce between the States. The state statute must, therefore,
give way.
The judgment of the county court of Milam County is
Reversed, and the case remanded to that court for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

ELLENWOOD v. MARIETTA CHAIR COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT

SOUTHERN
No. 234.

OF

THE

DISTRICT

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

OF OHIO.

Argued April 11, 15, 1895. -Decided

May 6, 1895.

By the law of those States of the Union whose jurisprudence is based on
the common law, an action for trespass upon land can only be brought
within the State in which the land lies.
A count alleging a continuing trespass upon land, and the cutting and conversion of timber growing thereon, states a single cause of action, in
which the trespass upon the land is the principal thing, and the conver-

sion of the timber is incidental only ; and cannot be maintained by proof
of the conversion, without also proving the trespass upon the land.

