OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

DU BOIS v. KIRK.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 240. Argued April 1, 2, 1895.
- Decided April 22, 1895.

Arthur Kirk was the original inventor of the invention patented to him by
letters patent No. 268,411, issued )ecember 5, 1882, for a new and
useful improvement in movable dams ; and that invention was the application of an old device to meet a novel exigency and to subserve a
new purpose, and was a useful improvement and patentable, and was
not anticipated by other patents or inventions, and was infringed by
the dams constructed by the plaintiff in error.
The fact that the defendant is able to accomplish the same result as the
plaintiff by another and different method does not affect the plaintiff's
right to his injunction.
An appeal does not lie from a decree for costs ; and if an appeal on the
merits be affirmed, it will not be reversed on the question of costs.

THIS was a bill in equity for the infringement of letters
patent No. 268,411, issued December 5, 1882, to Arthur Kirk
for a new and useful improvement in movable dams.
As stated in his specification, the invention "relates to
improvements in the construction of movable dams and locks,
whereby they are stronger, safer, more durable, and more
easily operated than those heretofore in use." The specification sets forth an improvement in the style of dam known as
the bear-trap dam, in several different particulars, the fifth
one of which consisted of "an open sluice, waterway, or tail
race, so arranged relatively to the dam that the water which
is not required to support the leaves will escape, and so relieve
the dam of all unnecessary pressure."
The following drawings exhibit the device:

DU BOIS v. KIRK.
Statement of the Case.

/d

In relation to this portion of the patent the patentee states:
"In the end wall of the dam I make an open sluice, waterway, or tail race, 38, Fig. 2, at such height as will permit all
water which is not required to sustain the gates to escape
from under them. When the gates are down, as in the position shown in Fig. 1, the water is admitted by the wickets
under them. This raises and floats them up until they reach
the position shown by Fig. 2. By that time the water, having reached the sluice 38, which passes through the wall
around the end of the gate, will flow freely through, sustaining the gates at that level.
"A modified construction of the sluice 38 is shown by
Fig. 4, where the outlet 39 in the wall is below the level of
the water, the latter passing through the outlet 39 into a forebay or well, 40, and thence over the bridge 41. If desired,
the discharge opening may be controlled by a valve operated
by a float.
"It is apparent that the form, place, and details of construction of the sluice for relieving the gates from excessive pres-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

sure below can be varied by the skilled constructor; but in
all cases an open channel will be necessary when the water'
has reached a certain height or pressure under the gates."
The sixth claim, the only one alleged to be infringed, is as
follows:
"6. A bear-trap dam, having a relieving or open sluice
extending from under the gates, so as to relieve them from
unnecessary pressure, substantially as and for the purposes
described."
Three grounds of defence were set up and insisted upon
by the defendant. First, that the alleged invention was not
useful; second, that the device was in use by the defendant
before the date of the alleged invention by the patentee; and
third, that the defendant had not infringed.
Upon a hearing upon pleadings and proofs, the Circuit
Court found in favor of the plaintiff upon all these issues, (33
Fed. Rep. 252,) and subsequently entered a final decree in
his favor for an injunction, with nominal damages. 46
Fed. Rep. 486. The defendant thereupon appealed to this
court.
ir. I P. Jenks and Mr.
Mr.G. A. Jenks for appellant.
T'. Ii. Baird Patterson were with him on the brief.
Xir. Thomas TV. Bakewell and M[r. Williaom Balcewell for
appellee. Mir. James AC Bakewell was with them on the
brief.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
Bear-trap dams are used in small streams for the purpose
of creating a reservoir of water, in which logs may be collected, and over which they may be floated down the river
when the dam is opened. These dams are movable, and
consist of two leaves of heavy timbers, bolted together, rising
and falling between two vertical sidewalls of masonry or

DU BOIS v. KIRK.
Opinion of the Court.

timber work. These leaves are hinged at their outer edges
to timbers in the bed of the stream, and when the dam is
down, the upper leaf overlaps the other to a certain extent.
Parallel with the stream, at one or both sides of the darn, is
a sluice, termed a forebay, at each end of which is a gate or
wicket, for the admission of water at its upper end from the
pond, and its discharge at its lower end into the tail race.
When it is desired to raise the dam, and create a reservoir of
water, the wicket at the upper end of the forebay is opened
and that at the lower end is closed. The effect of this is to
admit the water into the forebay, from which it flows through
openings provided for the purpose under the leaves of the
dam, and, by hydrostatic pressure, raises them gradually up
to their full height, when they assume somewhat the shape
of the letter A. When it is desired to lower the dam, and
create what is known as a chute for the passage of logs,
the wicket at the upper end of the forebay is closed and that
at the lower end is opened, the effect of which is to exhaust
the water from the forebay and from beneath the dam. As
the water runs out the leaves of the dam fall to a horizontal
position, and the water from the reservoir pours out through
the chute thus formed. If, however, the volume of water be
so great as to raise the water in the forebay above the height
of the dam, the pressure underneath the leaves may become
so great as to tear the lower leaf from under the upper one,
and thus wreck the dam, and, perhaps, create a serious flood
below it. It is said that an average difference of three feet
between the level of the water in the forebay and the level in
the chamber under the dam would exert upon leaves -each of
which is 450 square feet in area- an upward pressure of 97,200
pounds. To resist this hydrostatic pressure the common practice was to limit the upward motion of the lower leaf by stops,
cleats, or chains, or have a man constantly on watch to relieve
the pressure by opening or closing the wickets in the forebay,
as required.
The object of the invention in question was to do this
automatically, by opening an overflow underneath the apex
of the leaves of the damn, so that, when they reached their

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

full height, any further pressure upon them would be relieved
by the surplus of water running out through this overflow or
waste weir into the tail race. An alternative device is shown
in figure 4, by which, instead of permitting the water to run
off through a waste way, located near the apex of the dam,
it is allowed to run over the lower end wall of the forebay,
which for that purpose is made a few inches lower than the
apex of the dam. Under the laws of hydrostatic action,
lowering the water in the forebay also lowers it in the
chamber beneath the dam to precisely the same level, this
chamber being connected with the forebay at the bottom.
Waste ways were a common and well-known method of
relieving the pressure of water, but had, before the Kirk
invention, been generally if not universally used to draw off
the water from the pond above the dam, when it reached a
certain height, and thereby the pressure upon the dam was
relieved. Indeed, the dam itself becomes a waste way, as
soon as the water in the pond reaches a higher level than the
apex of the dam, and flows over it. It would appear that, at
the time of the Kirk invention, there was no recognized
method of relieving the pressure of the water underneath the
leaves of a bear-trap dam, and that the dam was prevented
from being carried away only by cleats or chains to brace the
structure, and enable it to resist the pressure from beneath.
The invention seems to have occurred to Kirk upon the
occasion of a visit of a delegation of the Pittsburgh Chamber
of Commerce, on Christmas day of 1879, to a bear-trap dam
erected by John DuBois, an uncle of the defendant, who had
recently patented an overlapping third leaf, designed to hold
down the other leaves. This improvement, as stated by one
of the witnesses, "consisted in adding a third leaf, which was
hinged to the down-stream end of the up-stream leaf in such
a way that when the dam was raised, the down-stream leaf
was supported and held in place by a third leaf." Kirk was
not satisfied with this method of resisting, instead of relievino,
the pressure, and as he states: "It occurred to me next day
to provide an overflow at the height desired to maintain the
gates, above which all water should flow away, because I

DU BOIS v. KIRK.
Opinion of the Court.

observed that the rising power of the dam was the water
under it." And revolving the matter further in his mind,
the thought occurred to him of making an overflow at the
desired height from a point under the gates, and discharging
the water into the tail race, and also of making the lower end
of the forebay lower than the upper end. le explained this
invention to his family on his return from the dam, and in
the early part of 1880 explained it to DuBois himself, and
urged him to adopt it upon some dams which he was then
building. It seems that DuBois disapproved of it, and stated
that it was not necessary, as his third leaf answered every
purpose; but, on April 19, 18S1, surreptitiously made application himself for a similar method of relieving the pressure
of the water beneath the dam. Upon learning of this, Kirk
filed a caveat, and applied for the patent in suit. An interference was declared by the Patent Office, and Kirk was
subsequently adjudged to be the first inventor, and the patent
was issued to him, with a claim for a bear-trap dam, having
a relievinmg or open sluice extending from under the gates.
In the meantime, however, upon an application filed Novenber 11, 1881, a patent was issued to DuBois, January 3, 1882,
for a similar device, wherein the claim was restricted to "an
overflow or discharge to limit the head of the water located
at a point in advance of the gate, whereby the surplus water
is permitted to escape before reaching the gate."
The Kirk invention is undoubtedly a very simple one, and
it may seem strange that a similar method of relieving the
pressure had never occurred to the builders of bear-trap
dams before; but the fact is that it did not, and that it was
not one of those obvious improvements upon what had gone
before, which would suggest itself to an ordinary workman,
or fall within the definition of mere mneehanical skill. It was
in fact the application of an old device to meet a novel
exigency, and to subserve a new purpose. That it is a useful
improvement can scarcely be doubted. Indeed, in view of
the fact that John DuBois made application for a similar
patent himself, and that he and the defendant, since his death,
have constantly made use of a device which differs from that

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

of Kirk's only in the fact that he relieves the pressure by
lowering the end of the forebay to a level beneath the apex
of the dam, it does not lie in defendant's mouth to deny
its utility. The presumptions, at least, are against him.
Lehnbeuter v. Ioltotaus, 105 U. S. 94; Iestern Electric Co. v.
LaJ~ue, 139 U. S. 601, 608; Gandy v. Mai, Belting Co., 143
U. S. 587, 595.
There are claimed as anticipations of this patent1. Patent No. 251,771 to John DuBois. This is the patent
already referred to, application for which was made November 11, 1881, nearly six months after application was made
for the patent in this suit. It is, therefore, a subsequent
patent, and of course cannot be claimed as an anticipation.
2. Patent No. 229,682 to John DuBois, issued July 6, 1880,
upon an application filed February 10, 1879, the fifth claim
of which patent is as follows : " The combination of a jointed
or flexible dam or lock gate adapted to rise and fall beneath
the water, a chamber or passage beneath the gate to admit
water for elevating the same, a secondary gate connected
with said chamber and controlling the escape of water there
from below the gate, and a float located above the dam and
arranged to operate the second gate." In relation to this the
patentee states that for the purpose of securing the elevation
and depression of the dam, a flume is arranged to conduct
water beneath it from the higher elevation of the stream
above, and a second flume arranged to conduct the water
from beneath the gate into the stream below. A small gate
or valve located in the second flume serves to control the
escape of the water from beieath the dam, and thereby controls the height of the dam, in the same manner that the
height of the lock gate is controlled. In order to control this
small gate or valve and the height of the dam automatically,
the patentee makes use of a float, mounted in the stream
above the dam,and connected with the gate. The rise and
fall of the water causes the float to rise and fall accordingly,
and the float, in turn, opens and closes the gate, so as to render the escape of the water from under the dam sections
proportionate to the height of water in the stream. The pur-

DU BOIS v. KIRK.
Opinion of the Court.

pose of this opening is to control the height of the leaves of
the dam, and not the water under the dam. If the dam is
intended to be set at half the elevation of the full height of
the leaves, this device properly adjusted would only allow
enough upward pressure under the leaves to raise them to
that height. To do this he places a float, not in the forebay,
but in the stream above the dam, and connects it with the
gate by a rack and pinion. Its operation seems to be to vary
automatically the height of the dam. in accordance with the
variations of the height of the water in the pond above. He
lowers the dam and thus draws off the water from the pond
above when needed. Kirk does not vary the height of his
(lam at all, but merely relieves it of pressure, the dlam, when
raised, being always at the same elevation.
The device, the operation of which is not very clearly shown
in the patent, seems to have a different object from that of the
Kirk patent, and employs quite a different means. In relation
to this device, which appears to have been introduced on an
accounting before the master, the master found "as to the use
of floats as a means of regulating the wickets and controlling
the pressure of water under the leaves, the evidence as to their
practical use and operation was so indefinite that the master
will submit the subject without further comment." This
patent does not seem to have been suggested to the court below as an anticipation, and it is not noticed by it in its opinion. Nor does defendant's expert make any reference to it.
There is nothing in his testimony to indicate that the device
which this patent describes accomplishes the same result or
works in the same way as Kirk's invention; and the fact that
DuBois himself subsequently made application for the patent,
which, upon Kirk's interference, was awarded to the latter,
indicates quite clearly that DuBois did not consider it as
accomplishing the purpose sought by his subsequent application. We do not find it to have been an anticipation of the
Kirk patent.
Defendant made use, in his alleged infringing device, of a
forebay, the lower wall of which was eight inches lower than
the apex of the dam, when the dam was raised. The water in
VOL. CLVI-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

the forebay as well as that under the leaves of the dam is thus
kept at a lower level than that in the pool above the dam.
This, in its practical effect, is an exact equivalent of the aperture shown in the Kirk patent, and inasmuch as this device is
stated in that patent as an alternative and equivalent device,
accomplishing the same result as the aperture first described,
it required no invention on the part of DuBois to make the
change. He had only to adopt the suggestion made by Kirk
in his specification, and use a forebay with a short lower wall
instead of the aperture. It is true the Patent Office attempted
to divide the invention by limiting Kirk to a relieving or
open sluice extending from under the gates, and allowing to
DuBois a claim for an overflow or discharge, to limit the
height of the water, located at a point in advance of the gate.
But if the inventions were practically one and the same, the
Patent Office was in error in so dividing the invention, and as
it adjudged that Kirk was the prior inventor, he was the one
entitled to the patent. The defendant practically admits that
his device accomplished the same result as the other, but
argues that it makes no practical difference whether the water
be discharged from the forebay by a wicket located near the
bottom, or by lowering the lower wall of the forebay and discharging the water over such wall; and that, by the use of
the lower wicket, the water in the forebay may be held at
any level which may be desired. This argument derives some
support from the fact that the Circuit Court, in its final decree,
found that the defendant realized no profits or saving whatever from the use of the patented device, and, therefore,
awarded only nominal damages. But if this argument be
sound, defendant will not suffer by the injunction, as the
method of relieving the water in the forebay by the manipulation of the upper and lower wickets, known as cocking the
wickets, is undoubtedly open to him. Plaintiff, however, is
none the less entitled to his injunction by the fact that defendant is able to accomplish the same result by another and different method.
Plaintiff was awarded full costs in the court below, notwithstanding that, in the report of the master and in the final

DU BOIS v. KIRK.
Opinion of the Court.

decree, he was awarded only nominal damages. It is insisted
that this was an error, and we are cited to the cases of Dobson
v. Hartford Carpet Co., 114 U. S. 439, and Dobson v. Dornan,
118 U. S. 10, in support of the contention that defendant
should have been allowed costs after the interlocutory decree.
In these cases, however, the court below awarded substantial
damages, and this court, while sustaining the interlocutory
decree, reversed the final decree so far as the awarding of
damages, and remanded the cases with instructions to allow
the defendant a recovery of his costs after interlocutory decree,
and to the plaintiff his costs to, and including the interlocutory
decree. In this case we sustain the action of the court below
both as to the interlocutory and final decree, and, as costs in
equity and admiralty cases are within the sound discretion of
the court, we do not feel inclined to disturb this decree in
awarding full costs to the plaintiff. Ganter v. American
Insurance Co., 3 Pet. 30'; Tle -ialek Adlel, 2 How. 210,
237; The Sapphire, 18 Wall. 51; Kittredge v. Race, 92 U. S.
116, 120. This court has held in several cases that an appeal
does not lie from a decree for costs; and if an appeal be taken
from a decree upon the merits, and such decree be affirmed
with respect to the merits, it will not be reversed upon the
question of costs. Elastic Fabrics co. v. Smith, 100 U. S.
110, 112; Paper Bag Afachine Cases, 105 U. S. 766, 772;
Wood v. Weimar, 104 U. S. 786, 792 ; Russell v. ]1irley, 105
U. S. 433, 437.
The decree of the court below is, therefore,
AJfirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD
MR.

JUSTICE SHIRAS

dissented.
took no part in the decision of this case.

